{"id": "40324995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40324995", "title": "Adam Lilling", "text": "Adam Lilling\n\nAdam Lilling (born 1970) is an entrepreneur and venture capitalist. The founder of Pentagon CDs and Tapes, an internet music retailer which launched in 1995, Lilling is recognized for his early role in the development of the online music business and e-commerce practices. He is the co-founder of LaunchpadLA, a mentorship program which later became a startup accelerator, and the founder and managing partner of Plus Capital, a venture capital firm.\n\nLilling was born in Brooklyn and raised in Muttontown, New York. He attended the University of Michigan, where he earned a bachelor's degree from the School of Business Administration. A lifelong musician, Lilling planned to pursue a career in music composition for film and television; after moving to Los Angeles in 1992, he enrolled in a graduate school program at the Thornton School of Music at the University of Southern California. The one-year program, run by Buddy Baker, was taught by prominent composers such as Jerry Goldsmith; Lilling's class of 19 students included Marco Beltrami and Christophe Beck. At the conclusion of the program, rather than work as a composer, Lilling opted to work in the music business.\n\nIn college, Lilling founded Soundtrax, a short-lived company which focused on selling film soundtracks at theaters. Soundtrax was dissolved when Lilling, then 23, was hired by Miles Copeland as the director of marketing for Vending Intelligence, one of Copeland's many companies. Regarded as groundbreaking, Vending Intelligence developed and sold CD vending machines which allowed customers to select and hear a 30-second sample of every CD included in the machine's inventory. Vending Intelligence was not successful, and in 1994, Lilling was reassigned to Copeland's label, I.R.S. Records, as the West Coast head of regional marketing and sales.\nIn 1995, while still at I.R.S., Lilling started Pentagon, an online cassette and CD retailer, who, among other innovations, distributed the first album offered online prior to its brick-and-mortar release. Pentagon was among the earliest internet retailers to offer personalized recommendations, gift packaging, and the ability to pre-order albums for day-of-release shipment; Pentagon also initiated the now-standard practices involving inventory, content, and advertising. Major labels paid for \"Featured Artist\" placement; chat boards and community areas encouraged dialogue among consumers, and Pentagon's inventory of 150,000 CDs and tapes included independent artists. \"Here were bands who were selling tapes out of their trunks after shows, and now they've got international distribution,\" Lilling said in a 1995 interview with \"Billboard.\" \"And people who love music can sample and buy music from bands that haven't been signed yet.\"\nPerceived at the time as a competitor to CD Now and Amazon, Pentagon adhered to a strategy of limited expenses and sustainable growth, and became profitable early in the company's evolution. In 1999, Lilling sold the company to the Virgin Entertainment Group, who adopted Pentagon's proprietary e-commerce technology and, in 2000, formed a new venture, Pazanga, which became a premiere worldwide entertainment e-commerce services provider. Still, following the dot-com crash, Pazanga's value dropped dramatically.\n\nIn 2004, Lilling co-founded BiggerBoat with Barbara DeLury, who had been Pazanga's CTO. The first entertainment-specific search engine, BiggerBoat built an advertising platform based on monitoring the media consumption of over 27 million consumers. In 2005 BiggerBoat received investment funding; in 2009, Lilling and De Lury bought the company back in order to reestablish ownership of the intellectual property. Edified by the experience, Lilling shifted his focus to venture capital.\nIn 2010, at the invitation of Mark Suster of Upfront Ventures, Lilling co-founded Launchpad LA, an organization designed to guide young Los Angeles-based entrepreneurs through mentorship. By 2011, 19 of the 23 companies incubated via Launchpad LA had received funding and/or been acquired, and in 2012, Lilling was included on the \"Forbes\" list of the \"12 entrepreneurs who are changing LA forever.\" Additionally, Lilling invested in BigFrame, MoviePass, advised the boards of AgentAce, The Cradle, MediaNet, Triptrotting, ShareThis, and MediaNet, and was appointed to the Board of Directors for Chromatik, HelloMusic, and MovieClips (now ZEFR). Featured in \"Variety's\" 2013 list of Venture Capitol Kingmakers and described as a \"serial entrepreneur,\" Lilling launched Plus Capital, a venture capital fund designed to connect early stage companies with influencers and investors, in March 2013.\n"}
{"id": "44875586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44875586", "title": "Aizō Sōma", "text": "Aizō Sōma\n\nSōma was born in a wealthy farming family in what is now Azumino, Nagano. He came to Tokyo at the age of 17 in order to enter Waseda University in 1886, entering the Tokyo Professional College which had just been founded. His professors included Tsubouchi Shōyō and Tameyuki Amano. Later, he studied with Sokichi Tsuda, a Japanese historian who became a professor at Waseda University. During this time, he was also converted to Christianity by Uchimura Kanzō, and became friends with Taguchi Ukichi.\n\nHe graduated in 1890, and travelled to Hokkaido, where he studied sericulture at the Sapporo Agricultural College, and returned to Nagano to conduct experiments in the improvement of silkworms. He also founded a temperance movement in Azumino, which drew the wrath of locals for its aggressive approach again drinking and brothels. He also met with foreign missionaries, and established a local orphanage.\n\nIn 1898, married Kokkō, the daughter of an ex-samurai from Sendai, which he had visited in order to raise funds for the orphanage, but she had frequent problems with her health and with adjusting to rural life, and the couple relocated to Tokyo in 1901. In Tokyo, Sōma purchased the Nakamura-ya bakery near the main gate to Tokyo Imperial University. He is credited with inventing the \"kurimu-pan\", a bun with custard inside. In 1909, he moved the shop to Shinjuku. He often hired foreigners or consulted with foreign residents in Japan for ideas on new products or new condiments to use in his bakery items. He also established a school to teach commercial morality and to improve on the service standards of his employees. The shop flourished, and he added a café and restaurant as well.\n\nSōma became a patron of the arts and literature by organizing a literary salon, and by providing financial support to struggling artists and writers. Members of the salon included Naoe Kinoshita, a socialist activist from Sōma’s home town, Vasili Eroshenko, a blind Russian poet, as well as actress Sumako Matsui, painter Tsune Nakamura, and sculptor Rokuzan Ogiwara. \nSōma also provided support to the pan-Asian movement, and his salon provided a convenient and confidential meeting place for politicians, including Toyama Mitsuru, Inukai Tsuyoshi and others. Sōma provided shelter for Rash Behari Bose, the fugitive head of the Indian independence movement. Bose was the mastermind behind a number of bomb plots against the Viceroy of India and attempts to organize an uprising against the British Raj. Bose married Sōma’s daughter Toshiko in 1918.\n\nSōma died in 1954.\n\n"}
{"id": "41232548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41232548", "title": "Anang Desai", "text": "Anang Desai\n\nAnang Desai is an Indian film and television actor. Desai has appeared in more than 80 television shows and is popularly known for his portrayal of the character Babuji in the television series Khichdi and its . He is an alumnus of the National School of Drama, New Delhi and was a part of the institute's professional repertory, performing Hindi theatre extensively before starting his career in the television and film domains.\n\nAnang Desai started his film career in 1982 with Gandhi, in which he played Indian politician J. B. Kripalani.\n\n"}
{"id": "22899003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22899003", "title": "Andrés Framini", "text": "Andrés Framini\n\nAndrés Framini (August 2, 1914 –May 9, 2001) was an Argentine labor leader and politician.\n\nAndrés Framini was born in the working-class La Plata suburb of Berisso, in 1914. He entered the labor force as a peon in one of Buenos Aires' many textile manufacturers, eventually working for the important Piccaluga facility in the southside Barracas section of the city. Poor pay and working conditions provided Labor Minister and then Vice President Juan Perón a powerful political opportunity, which he seized by aggressively lobbying employers for a redress of these grievances, which had hitherto been quite difficult for most working-class Argentines to do. The Vice President's receptiveness to reform and his assurances of change earned Framini's support. Following President Edelmiro Farrell's October 13, 1945, arrest of the increasingly popular Perón, Framini participated actively in the October 17 mobilizations that freed the populist leader and forced the regime to call elections for early in 1946; Perón was elected handily.\n\nEncouraged by these developments, the Textile Workers' Association (AOT) was formed ten days later as an affiliate of the umbrella CGT, and Framini was elected factory shop steward. Following a series of failed strikes in 1953 against President Perón's austerity plan, Framini displaced the AOT's more militant, left-wing leadership, becoming the powerful union's Secretary General. In that capacity, he was among those present at the June 16, 1955, rally at the Plaza de Mayo in support of the president following his excommunication by Pope Pius XII, a day earlier. As Perón spoke, Argentine Air Force Gloster Meteor jets flew overhead, dropping their ordnance and killing over 350 before flying to safety in neighboring Uruguay; Perón was ultimately overthrown on September 19.\n\nThe moderately anti-Peronist new president, Gen. Eduardo Lonardi, held talks with the CGT that sought to allow the continued existence of the 2.5 million-member labor union (the largest in Latin America, at the time), while coercing the CGT to abandon Peronism. The CGT's directors resigned on October 5, leaving the leadership to Framini and to Light and Power Union leader Luis Natalini.\nThe two CGT leaders arrived at an agreement with Labor Minister Luis Cerruti Costa (himself an erstwhile Peronist) within a day of taking over. They greed to union elections within 120 days and the formal abandonment of peronism, in return for assurances against government (or military) intervention. Cerruti Costa's insistence on continuing to replace CGT leaders led to Framini's October 26 ultimatum against him, with the threat of a general strike. This was averted at the last minute; but on November 13, General Lonardi was replaced with the more anti-Peronist Gen. Pedro Aramburu.\n\nFramini responded by calling a three-day general strike for November 15; Aramburu had over 9,000 CGT figures (including Framini and Natalini) jailed, however, thus foiling the strike. The failed strike was followed by a prison sentence for Framini, at which he was stripped of official CGT leadership. He then formed an \"Authentic CGT\" and was among the civilian organizers of a failed, June 9, 1956, coup led by Gen, Juan José Valle against Aramburu - a fiasco which resulted in Valle's execution, as well as of 26 others'. Framini himself escaped this fate by going into hiding.\n\nThe AOT received a military-appointed leader, though in 1957 the regime allowed new labor union elections resulting in the victory of Framini's deputy at the textile union, Juan Carlos Loholaberry. The regime's appointees at the CGT sabotaged an August 1957 congress by walking out (depriving the congress of quorum), and Framini responded by calling two general strikes, in September and October.\n\nFramini geared for the February 1958 elections by echoing the exiled Juan Perón's endorsement of the UCRI candidate, Arturo Frondizi. The military, however, forced Frondizi to appoint an ultra-conservative military contractor, Álvaro Alsogaray, as Economy Minister at the end of 1958, throwing Framini and labor, in general, against the new administration. The president retaliated by having Framini arrested numerous times in 1959 - a year marked by recession and labor conflicts. The labor leader's case was brought before the International Labour Organization (ILO), which prevailed on President Frondizi to allow Framini due process. He was returned as head of the AOT, later that year.\n\nThe textile workers' leader helped organize the Commission of 20, in October 1960, with the goal of persuading Frondizi to rid the CGT of its puppet leadership. A successful, November 7, 1960, general strike resulted in the president's agreeing to talks, and on March 3, 1961, the CGT was entrusted to the Commission of 20 (ending nearly 6 years of government receivership). These accomplishments encouraged Peronists to field candidates for Congress and the governorships, ahead of the March 1962 mid-term elections. \n\nPeronism and its political vehicle, the Justicialist Party, had been banned from political life since 1955; but Framini and other Peronists ran on proxy political parties organized after Perón's overthrow, notably Juan Atilio Bramuglia's Popular Union. The Popular Union nominated Framini for governor of the Province of Buenos Aires (home to 38% of Argentines) and for vice-governor: Perón, himself. The leader believed this symbolic spot on the ticket (which, unable to return, he could never fill) would prove a powerful endorsement to Framini; but the move backfired. Frondizi's government declared Perón's candidacy null and void, and even Cardinal Caggiano (a supporter of Perón's until his overthrow) spoke out against the move.\n\nReceiving the endorsement of Socialist Party leaders Alfredo Palacios and Alicia Moreau de Justo, and joined on the ticket by Marcos Anglada, Framini's unofficial slogan was unequivocal, however: \"Framini-Anglada, Perón to the Rosada!\" The clear reference to the Casa Rosada (the president's executive office building) put anti-peronists and the military on high alert when, in fact, Perón's proxies won 10 of 14 governorships at stake - including Framini's victory in the all-important Province of Buenos Aires. President Frondizi was forced to annul Framini's March 18 victory, and despite quickly obeying military demands, on March 28 the president was overthrown.\n\nFramini led a gathering on the steps of the Provincial Legislature in La Plata to demand he be sworn in as governor; the demonstration was violently repressed, however. These bitter experience helped divide the CGT once again, moreover, and two camps eventually developed in the trade union. The leader of the Steel and Metalworks Union (UOM), Augusto Vandor, favored distancing the CGT from Perón; while Framini did not. A plenary held near La Falda in June 1962 resulting in a marked leftward shift in the CGT's platform, a position encouraged by the re-appointment of the anti-labor Alvaro Alsogaray and a new, deep recession.\n\nThe two leaders' differences were superficial, initially, and the two formed part of the Peronist Tactical Command, the movement's secret political think tank. Perón's frustrated December 1964 return to Argentina only exacerbated tensions between the two factions and, in February 1966, the CGT was divided. Framini counted on strong supporters, such as CGT Secretary General José Alonso, rail workers' leader Lorenzo Pepe, and the sanitation workers' leader Amado Olmos. As head of the UOM (the CGT's largest union), however, Vandor was able to eject Alonso as CGT head. Vandor's faction of the CGT benefited as well from the June 28, 1966, coup d'état against President Arturo Illia (overthrown for allowing Peronists to take their seats in Congress following a 1965 election victory). Illia's replacement, Gen. Juan Carlos Onganía, appointed a Labor Minister, Rubens San Sebastián, whose self-professed strategy vis-à-vis the CGT was that of \"divide and conquer;\" San Sebastián's support for Vandor eventually helped lead the AOT to replace Framini for his deputy, Juan Carlos Laholaberry, in 1968.\n\nFramini's own exit from the AOT was far from ceremonious: as the rank-and-file voted, they learned that he had been apparently kidnapped. The prominent Buenos Aires daily, \"Crónica\", exposed the kidnapping as a hoax, however, and Framini kept a low profile for some time. The incident inspired Víctor Proncet's script for director Raymundo Gleyzer's 1973 drama \"Los traidores\" (\"The Traitors\") – a banned film which, to date, has not been shown publicly.\n\nFollowing the Peronists' return to power in 1973, Framini was unable to return to political prominence. The early morning hours of March 24, 1976, found him and Mrs. Framini away from home – a coincidence that saved their lives when the newly installed military dictatorship raided their home with the intention of eliminating the retired labor leader. The Framinis were forced to sell the home and relocate to a tiny apartment, where they remained due to economic duress following the end of the dictatorship in 1983.\n\nFramini received numerous recognitions in later years. His 1962 electoral victory was honored with the bestowment of the title of \"Former Governor-elect of the Province of Buenos Aires\" by Governor Eduardo Duhalde and the Argentine Chamber of Deputies recognized him for his historical role as a Notable Argentine, in 1997. Framini opposed President Carlos Menem's abandonment of his populist Peronist platform (on which he was elected in 1989) and offered his support to a small left-wing party in 2000. He attended a May 9, 2001, tribute to the populist former first lady, Eva Perón, at the Argentine Workers' Center headquarters. There, Leonardo Favio's \"Perón: A Symphony of Feelings\" (1999) was shown as part of the tribute, and when the projection came to an end, Andrés Framini was found dead in his seat; he was 86.\nHe was buried in La Chacarita Cemetery\n"}
{"id": "1071335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1071335", "title": "Barry Sadler", "text": "Barry Sadler\n\nBarry Allen Sadler (November 1, 1940November 5, 1989) was an American soldier, singer/songwriter, and author. Sadler served as a Green Beret medic, achieving the rank of Staff Sergeant. He served in the Vietnam War from late December 1964 to late May 1965. Most of his work has a military theme, and he is best known for his patriotic \"Ballad of the Green Berets,\" a #1 hit in 1966.\n\nSadler was born in Carlsbad, New Mexico, the second son of John Sadler and Bebe Littlefield of Phoenix, Arizona. According to Sadler's autobiography, \"I'm A Lucky One\", his father developed a successful plumbing and electrical business in Carlsbad and owned several farms in the area. He describes his mother as managing restaurants and bars, and at times, games in casinos.\n\nThe family relocated often. His parents divorced when Sadler was five, and his father died not long after at age 36 from a rare form of nervous system cancer. His mother moved her family around as she worked at temporary jobs in Arizona, California, Colorado, New Mexico, and Texas.\n\nSadler dropped out of high school in the tenth grade in Leadville, Colorado. In 1958, at 17, he enlisted in the U.S. Air Force. He finished his GED certificate while in the Air Force. He trained as a radar technician in 1958 and was stationed in Japan. After his discharge in 1961, Sadler enlisted in the U.S. Army, and volunteered for Airborne and Special Forces, opting to be a medic.\n\nWhen he completed Airborne training, he underwent the lengthy training as a combat medic at Fort Sam Houston, Texas, Fort Jackson, South Carolina, and Fort Bragg, North Carolina. In May 1965, while he was on a combat patrol southeast of Pleiku in the Central Highlands, he was severely wounded in the knee by a feces-covered punji stick. Sadler dressed the wound with a cotton swab and an adhesive bandage, then completed the patrol; however, he subsequently developed a serious infection in his leg, and was evacuated to Clark Air Force Base Hospital in The Philippines. Doctors were forced to surgically enlarge the wound to drain it and to administer large doses of penicillin. Sadler returned to Fort Bragg where he made a complete recovery.\n\nSadler recorded his famous song, \"The Ballad of the Green Berets\", a patriotic tune about the Special Forces, in December 1965. The writer Robin Moore, author of the novel \"The Green Berets,\" which became a 1968 movie, \"The Green Berets,\" featuring John Wayne, helped Sadler with lyrics and with getting a recording contract with RCA Victor Records. \"The Ballad of the Green Berets\" arranged as a choral version by Ken Darby was the title song of the movie. Moore also wrote an introduction to Sadler's autobiography, \"I'm A Lucky One,\" which he dictated to Tom Mahoney and was published by Macmillan Company in 1967. \"The Ballad of the Green Berets\" was released by RCA Victor Records in January 1966, and became a fast-selling single, holding No. 1 on the Billboard Hot 100 chart for five consecutive weeks from March 5 to April 2, 1966. The record sold more than nine million copies. \nThe song was a great success in many U.S. cities; it scored five weeks at No. 1 on the weekly Good Guys music survey at WMCA, the top popular music radio station in New York during 1966. He sang it for his television début on January 30 on The Ed Sullivan Show. Sadler had recorded an album of similarly themed songs which he titled \"Ballads of the Green Berets\". It sold a million copies during the first five weeks of its release. Sadler had a minor success, the similarly patriotic-themed \"The 'A' Team\", later the same year when that single scored #28.\n\nAccording to the ribbons and badges worn by Sadler in a televised performance of \"The Ballad of the Green Berets,\" he received the following awards for his military service: Purple Heart Medal, Army Good Conduct Medal, Armed Forces Expeditionary Medal, Air Force Longevity Service Award, Combat Infantryman Badge, Parachutist Badge, and the South Vietnamese Parachutist Badge.\n\nThe ribbons shown in Sadler's television performance mentioned above did not represent all of Sadler's awards. Sadler was also entitled to the National Defense Service Medal and the Vietnam Campaign Medal. He had the option of replacing the Armed Forces Expeditionary Medal with the Vietnam Service Medal.\n\nSadler was unable to score any close to a major success with his other songs, though \"The A-Team\" was a Top 30 \"Billboard\" chart single during 1966. He was honorably discharged from the Army in May 1967, and moved with his family to Tucson, Arizona. After minor acting parts in four episodes of two TV western series, \"Death Valley Days and \"The High Chaparral\", and in the 1968 caper film \"Dayton's Devils\" starring Rory Calhoun, he moved to Nashville and begin writing pulp fiction novels. His popular Casca series is about the title character, Casca Rufio Longinius (a combination of Longinus and the Wandering Jew), supposedly the Roman soldier who thrust his lance into Christ's side during the crucifixion. Casca is cursed to remain a soldier until the Second Coming. The novels feature Casca's life from biblical times to the 20th century. Sadler himself wrote the first twenty-two books. After his death, the series was continued with books by other authors.\n\n\nOn December 1, 1978, at about 11 p.m., Sadler killed a country music songwriter named Lee Emerson Bellamy with one gunshot to the head. The shooting was the culmination of a month-long dispute the men had concerning Darlene Sharpe, who was Bellamy's former girlfriend, and Sadler's lover at the time. Bellamy made many harassing telephone calls to Sadler and Sharpe, had one violent confrontation in a Nashville bar's parking lot, and threatened both their lives.\n\nOn the night in question, Bellamy made several harassing telephone calls, including one to the Natchez Trace Restaurant where Sadler and Sharpe were having dinner and drinks with two friends. That resulted in Sadler asking a bartender to telephone the police, who never responded. Bellamy later went to Sharpe's apartment complex and knocked on the door. Sadler exited through a side door. On seeing Sadler, Bellamy fled to his van. It was at that time, Sadler testified, that he saw a flash of metal. Believing it to be a gun, he fired one shot. The bullet struck Bellamy right between the eyes, and he died several hours later in a Nashville hospital. It turned out that Bellamy was unarmed. According to court records, Sadler had then placed a handgun in Bellamy's van, presumably to strengthen his claim of self-defense. After a plea bargain, on June 1, 1979, Sadler was convicted of voluntary manslaughter for the death of Lee Emerson Bellamy, and sentenced to from 4 to 5 years in prison. His legal team worked to lower the sentence, which a judge reduced to just 30 days in the county workhouse. He served 28 days. Sadler was sued for wrongful death by Bellamy's stepson, and was ordered to pay compensation of about $10,000.\n\nSadler moved to Guatemala City in 1984. He continued to write and publish his \"Casca\" books, produced a never-released self-defense video, and provided free medical treatment in rural villages. On September 7, 1988, Sadler was shot in the head while sitting in a cab in Guatemala City. Witnesses said he accidentally shot himself, but his friends and family believed he was shot by a robber or an assassin. He was flown to the United States by friends in a private jet paid for by \"Soldier of Fortune\" magazine publisher Bob Brown. \n\nHe was operated on at the Nashville Veterans Administration (VA) Hospital, and remained in a coma for about six weeks. After emerging from the coma, Sadler was a quadriplegic and had suffered significant brain damage. He was finally released in January 1989, but he was reported missing by his family. A few days later, he was found, in time to be present at a competency hearing.\n\nAfter being moved to the Cleveland VA Hospital for specialized treatment, he was removed from the hospital by two former Green Berets and his mother, Blanche Sadler. After a contentious court battle waged by his wife and children, a court in Tennessee ruled that Sadler be put under the care of an independent guardian. Sadler was moved to the VA Hospital in Murfreesboro, Tennessee, in February 1989, but he never recovered from his injury. He died there of cardiac arrest on November 5, 1989, four days after his 49th birthday. Sadler was survived by his wife, Lavona, a daughter, Brooke, and two sons, Thor and Baron.\n\n"}
{"id": "1767595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1767595", "title": "Brother Ali", "text": "Brother Ali\n\nAli Douglas Newman (born Jason Douglas Newman, July 30, 1977), better known by his stage name Brother Ali, is an American rapper, community activist, and member of the Rhymesayers Entertainment hip hop collective. He has released six albums, four EPs, a number of singles and collaborations. \n\nAli was born in Madison, Wisconsin, with albinism, a disorder characterized by the complete or partial absence of pigment in the skin, hair, and eyes. He moved with his family to Michigan for a few years and then settled in Minneapolis, Minnesota, in 1992. He attended Robbinsdale Cooper High School in New Hope, Minnesota. He began rapping at age eight. Ali stated that he was influenced by hip hop culture at a very early age. In an interview with \"Huck\" magazine, he stated \"Ever since I was a little kid, I’ve always been into hip hop. I started beatboxing when I was about seven years old. Eventually, that led to me falling in love with the words.\" \n\nOn August 13, 2007, Brother Ali appeared on \"The Late Late Show\" and performed his single \"Uncle Sam Goddamn\" from \"The Undisputed Truth\". On October 19, 2007, Ali appeared on \"Late Night with Conan O'Brien\" and performed \"Take Me Home\" from \"The Undisputed Truth\". On December 16, 2009 Ali appeared on \"Late Night with Jimmy Fallon\" and was featured with late night band The Roots.\n\nOn July 24, 2013, Brother Ali appeared on the Maximum Fun podcast \"Judge John Hodgman\" as an \"Expert Witness\".\n\nOn April 4, 2017, he appeared on \"The Combat Jack Show\": \"The Brother Ali Episode\" and on October 19, 2017, on BuzzFeed's \"See Something Say Something\" podcast. On April 5, 2018, he appeared on Max Fun's \"Heat Rocks\" podcast.\n\nAli also appeared in Sacha Jenkins' 2018 documentary \"Word is Bond\". \n\nAli has a son, Faheem, from his first marriage, and a daughter from his second marriage in 2006. His music frequently addresses his role as a father, parent, and husband. The song \"Real as Can Be\" off his 2009 EP \"The Truth Is Here\" refers to the incoming daughter and in the song \"Fresh Air\" from his 2009 album \"Us\", he goes on to say \"Just got married last year/ treated so good that it ain't even fair/ already got a boy now the baby girl's here/ Bought us a house like the Berenstain Bears.\"\n\nAli often makes fun of the media's constant urge to mention his albinism condition in the first lines of their reviews or newspaper articles. He is also legally blind which is caused by his albinism.\n\nIn an article titled \"The Art of Mourning in America\", Brother Ali said his favorite food is sweet potato pie. The interview was conducted during the month of Ramadan and Ali performed a freestyle: \"life long Starvation every month is Ramadan, walk in the crib and I'm surprised that the power's on.\"\n\nAli converted to Islam at age 15 and followed Imam Warith Deen Mohammed. During this time, Ali was selected to join a group of students on a Malaysian study tour, in which they explored ways that a more liberal Islamic society could peacefully coexist with different religions.\n\nAli credits his conversion to Islam to fellow hip hop musician KRS-One, whom he met during a lecture at age 13 at a local Minnesotan university. When asked about his faith, Ali stated, \"KRS-One was actually the one who told me I should read Malcolm X. He assigned the autobiography of Malcolm X to me; I read it, and that’s what led to me becoming a Muslim.\"\n\nMany of Brother Ali's themes of social justice are incorporated into his lyricism, though he also takes part in activism outside of the music. He primarily focuses on themes of racial inequality, slavery, and critiquing the United States government, though overarching themes of hope, acceptance, and rising from sorrow are also often present. Much attention was garnered through Ali's album, \"The Undisputed Truth\", as it heavily criticized much about the United States' political system. After the music video for \"Uncle Sam Goddamn\" was released in 2007, it quickly gained much attention, and shortly after, the United States Department of Homeland Security froze a money transfer to his record label.\n\nIn 2012, Ali was arrested along with thirty-seven others while occupying the home of a Minneapolis resident to fight the house's foreclosure. The goal of the protesters was to block the eviction of the family through their assembly and occupancy, but they were unsuccessful. Ali ended up using his celebrity as a platform to discuss these events, and bring them to the attention of his audience.\n\nAli deals heavily with the notion of privilege, and focuses on bringing to mind issues that are all too often ignored within society. He stated in an interview with \"Yes!\" magazine that \"The best definition of privilege I’ve heard is anything you don't have to wrestle with, that you don't have to think about\". Ali feels a certain obligation to act politically, as he is unwilling to sit aside after experiencing all he has. He states, \"I feel like that's my job, and I feel like within the last few years I fully woke up to that, found the courage to understand that, and stepped out like that\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48875668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48875668", "title": "Chad Hatfield", "text": "Chad Hatfield\n\nFr. Chad Hatfield (born December 15, 1953) is an Eastern Orthodox Archpriest, President of St. Vladimir’s Orthodox Seminary, where he teaches Missiology and Evangelism courses. Also, he is the editor of the Orthodox Christian Profiles Series, published by St. Vladimir’s Seminary Press, and a member of the Metropolitan Council of the Orthodox Church in America (OCA).\n\nFr. Chad Hatfield was ordained to the diaconate (January 5, 1994) and the priesthood (January 6, 1994) by Bishop Basil of Wichita (Antiochian Orthodox Christian Archdiocese of North America). Between 2002 and 2007 he served with great distinction as the Dean of St. Herman Seminary in Alaska. On November 18, 2006 he was elected as Chancellor of St. Vladimir’s Orthodox Seminary and began his term on September 8, 2007. After serving a decade as Chancellor, on May 25, 2016, The Very Rev. Dr. Chad was appointed as Chief Executive Officer by the Board of Trustees of St. Vladimir’s Orthodox Seminary.[http://www.svots.edu/headlines/seminary-trustees-implement-new-governance-model-seek-ceo <nowiki>[2]</nowiki>]\n\nAfter a few months, on November 30, 2016 Fr Chad was appointed as President of St. Vladimir’s Orthodox Seminary. On January 30, 2017, His Beatitude Tikhon, Metropolitan of the Orthodox Church in America (OCA) and St. Vladimir’s Seminary Board Chairman, announced that Fr Chad Hatfield’s term as President of the Seminary was extended by the Board of Trustees by the end of June 2019. On May 3, 2017, the Board of Trustees had voted unanimously to confirm Fr Chad as President of the Seminary for a new two-year term, beginning July 1, 2017, and concluding June 30, 2019.\n\nHis wife, Matushka Thekla, is an integral part of seminary life where she is the Coordinator for the St. Juliana Society. An iconographer and graphic designer, she is currently finishing her certification as a botanical illustrator. They are the parents of Jason, who is married to Kasey, and who are the parents of Ryan, Morgan, and Braeden Richard. They live in Austin, Texas where Jason is a physician. Sean is the youngest Hatfield son, married to Maggie, and the couple lives in Wichita, Kansas, where Sean practices law.\n\n\n\n\n\nAlthough Fr Chad’s activity focuses on administrative work, he is also editor of the Orthodox Christian Profiles Series, and author of several publications. The goal of the Orthodox Christian Profiles Series is to acquaint the reader on an intimate level with Orthodox Figures that have shaped the directions of the Orthodox Church in areas of mission, ascetical and liturgical theology, scholarly and pastoral endeavors, and various other professional disciplines. The People featured in the series are mostly our contemporaries and most remain active in shaping the life of the Church today. A few will have fallen asleep in the Lord, but their influence remains strong and worthy of historical record. The mission this series is to introduce inspirational Orthodox Christian leaders in various ministries and callings that build up the Body of Christ.\n\nThe series includes seven volumes:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5367175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5367175", "title": "Charles Meade", "text": "Charles Meade\n\nCharles Meade (December 24, 1916 – April 10, 2010) was the founder of a Christian church first called End Time Ministries, later Meade Ministries, based just south of Lake City, Florida.\n\nMeade was born to a farming family in Oil Springs, Kentucky (west of Paintsville), the ninth child of his mother. According to church literature he was the twelfth of fifteen children.\n\nAs a young man, Meade reportedly served in the United States armed forces on the front lines in World War II. According to church literature he was seriously injured more than once, but there is no indication of this in his service record. He claims this is due to his biblical skills in the heart of danger.\nDuring the early 1970s Meade began to carry the gospel of Jesus Christ to various groups of young people in their late teens and early twenties. They met in living rooms, garages and various cult meeting places throughout the United States.\n\nHe founded Meade Ministries (now Mountaintop Ministries Worldwide) in 1984, he relocated his ministry from South Dakota and Indiana to Lake City, Florida. According to the church, God told Charles Meade that Lake City, Florida, would be the only place that believers could survive Armageddon. In a 1998 \"New York Times\" article about doomsday groups, writers Alex Heard and Peter Klebnikov explained Meade's beliefs about the apocalypse: \n\nMeade was married twice, first to Marie Meade who died of breast cancer on October 24, 1985, and then in November, 1985 to Marlene Helen Malthesen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6162043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6162043", "title": "Cleve Backster", "text": "Cleve Backster\n\nGrover Cleveland \"Cleve\" Backster, Jr. (February 27, 1924 – June 24, 2013) was an interrogation specialist for the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), best known for his experiments with plants using a polygraph instrument in the 1960s which led to his theory of \"primary perception\" where he claimed that plants \"feel pain\" and have extrasensory perception (ESP), which was widely reported in the media but was rejected by the scientific community.\n\nHe was born in Lafayette Township, New Jersey on February 27, 1924. Backster began his career as an Interrogation Specialist with the CIA, and went on to become Chairman of the Research and Instrument Committee of the Academy for Scientific Interrogation. He is the former director of the Backster School of Lie Detection in San Diego, California and was a polygraph instructor before his experiments on plants. He got a D.Sc. in Complementary Medicine from Medicina Alternativa in 1996 and was on the faculty of the California Institute for Human Science Graduate School and Research Center founded by Hiroshi Motoyama which is unaccredited. He wrote the book \"Primary Perception — Biocommunication with Plants, Foods, and Human Cells\" which describes 36 years of his work and was published in 2003. He died on June 24, 2013 after a prolonged illness.\n\nBackster founded the CIA's polygraph unit shortly after World War II. The Backster School of Lie Detection is located in San Diego, California. The school was founded in New York City in 1960, shortly after Backster left his position with the Central Intelligence Agency. It trains policemen to use the polygraph or \"lie detector\" test.\n\nBackster's study of plants began in the 1960s, and he reported observing that a polygraph instrument attached to a plant leaf registered a change in electrical resistance when the plant was harmed or even threatened with harm. His work was inspired by the research of physicist Jagadish Chandra Bose, who claimed to have discovered that playing certain kinds of music in the area where plants grew caused them to grow faster. Bose used a crescograph to measure plant response to various stimuli and demonstrated feeling in plants. From the analysis of the variation of the cell membrane potential of plants under different circumstances, he hypothesized that plants can \"feel pain, understand affection etc\" and wrote two books about it in 1902 and 1926.\n\nIn February 1966, Backster attached polygraph electrodes to a Dracaena cane plant, to measure at first the time taken for water to reach the leaves. The electrodes are used to measure galvanic skin response and the plant showed readings which resembled that of a human. This made Backster try different scenarios, and the readings went off the chart when he pictured burning the leaf, because according to him, the plant registered a stress response to his thoughts of harming it. He conducted another similar experiment where he observed a plant's response to the death of a brine shrimp in another room; his results convinced him that plants demonstrated telepathic awareness. He argued that plants perceived human intentions, and as he began to investigate further, he also reported finding that other human thoughts and emotions caused reactions in plants, which could be recorded by a polygraph instrument. He termed the plants' sensitivity to thoughts \"Primary Perception\", and published his findings from the experiments in the \"International Journal of Parapsychology\" in 1968. Soviet scientists invited Backster to the first Psychotronic Association conference in Prague in 1973 and his paper was entitled \"Evidence of Primary Perception at a Cellular Level in Plant and Animal Life\". After 1973, he further experimented on yoghurt bacteria, eggs and human sperm and he claimed his results showed \"primary perception\" could be measured in all living things.\n\nControlled experiments that have attempted to replicate Backster's findings have failed, and the theory was not accepted since it did not follow the scientific method. At the 141st annual meeting of American Association for the Advancement of Science, the panel of biologists found the claim unsupportable. The results seemed to be spontaneous; repeatability is still a problem, for him and the people who tried to perform his experiment. His lack of control experiments were criticized and explanations, such as that the polygraphs were responding to static electricity build-up and humidity changes, were put forward. The reliability of the polygraph test itself has been questioned. Plants have cellulose cell walls but do not possess sensory organs, which rules out the possibility of plants having ESP.\n\nBiologist Arthur Galston told \"St. Petersburg Times\", \"We know plants don't have nervous systems. But they do have little electrical currents flowing through them and are subject to outside manipulation.\" He further said that plants can show altered electrical responses to light, chemical agents and disease but he \"draws the line\" to the claim of them \"responding to human thoughts and events, including life elimination.\" Scientists at the Cornell University and the Science Unlimited Research Foundation, San Antonio, Texas, could not find results that supported Backster's findings in the experiment, where the death of brine shrimp caused electrical voltage changes in the leaves of a plant in another room. Backster explained that they did not follow the exact laboratory techniques which he had used to perform the original experiments and he has not attempted to repeat them himself.\n\nBackster's work became popular and drew public attention, and his findings were similar to the beliefs of Hindus, Buddhists and New Age followers. Some parapsychologists criticized his work, suggesting the results were due to \"his own telekinetic abilities\". His theory is in books like Peter Tompkins and Christopher Bird's \"The Secret Life of Plants\" and Robert Stone's \"The Secret Life of Your Cells\". He was a guest on June 27, 2007 on the evening radio show, \"Coast To Coast AM\", during which he discussed with host George Noory and with callers to the program his experiments with primary perception and findings of an interconnection between all living cells. He had been a guest several times before on Art Bell's Coast to Coast, as well as on Jeff Rense's radio shows, and has presented papers at many international conferences and meetings as well as those in the US.\n\nMarcel Vogel claimed to be able to duplicate this effect \"using plants as transducers for bio-energetic fields from the human mind\". Backster's work caught the attention of the Church of Scientology founder, Ron Hubbard. Hubbard officially used the polygraph as an \"E-meter\" and he too, published plant communication experiments on tomato plants.\n\nBackster's \"Primary Perception\" theory was a subject of the Discovery Channel television show \"MythBusters\". After all human and environmental stimuli that could alter the results were removed, they reproduced Backster's experiments with the dracaena plant, yoghurt, saliva and eggs. After getting negative results, they performed a final experiment using an EEG instrument, which is more sensitive than a polygraph, connected it to a plant to check whether it would \"see\" eggs being catapulted randomly into boiling water. The instrument registered no change in the plant and the myth was considered as busted in that episode.\n\n"}
{"id": "2687272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2687272", "title": "Colonel Routh Goshen", "text": "Colonel Routh Goshen\n\nRouth Goshen, born Arthur James Caley (1824 – February 12, 1889) was most commonly known as Colonel Routh Goshen or the Arabian Giant or the Palestine Giant. He was billed as the tallest man in the world at 7 ft, 11 inches (2.41 m) and 620 pounds (280 kg) but was most likely no more than 7 ft, 5 inches (2.26 m) and 400 pounds (180 kg). His true origins were kept secret from the public during his performance years in the United States and were obscured by the many apocryphal biographies that were created to publicize him. His actual origins came out slowly after his death. His birth name was Arthur James Caley and he was born on the Isle of Man in 1824. His fictional biographies said he was born in Jerusalem on May 5, 1837. After his retirement in the 1880s, he settled in Middlebush, New Jersey and gained the nickname the Middlebush Giant.\n\nRouth Goshen was born Arthur James Caley in 1824 near Sulby, Isle of Man, to Arthur Caley and Anne Kewley. He was baptized on November 16, 1824, in Lezayre parish. He was one of twelve children the couple had. His sister Margaret Caley, moved to New York. In his teens, he began to grow very tall and continued to grow into his 20s. In May 1851, Caley visited friends at Liverpool and news articles were published about his size. At that time, Caley was described as being 7 ft, 6 inches (2.28 m). Shortly afterwards, Caley exhibited himself in Manchester, then in London and eventually in Paris, France. In February 1853, Caley's mother received a letter saying her son had died on February 1 in Paris, shortly after a life insurance policy had been taken out for him by his manager Etienne Lefevre. It is not known what happened for the next several years of Caley's life. He eventually moved to the United States and adopted the name Colonel Routh Goshen.\n\nBy at least 1859, Colonel Routh Goshen had already become known as the \"Arabian Giant.\" By November 1863 he was being billed along side Anna Swan, General Tom Thumb, and Commodore Nutt at Barnum's American Museum. He was described as being twenty-seven years old at the time and having been born in Jerusalem. He was reported to have settled for a time around 1869 on a farm in Algonquin, Illinois. In 1870 a semi-fictitious biography of his life was published entitled \"The History of Palestine and the Present Condition of Old Jerusalem and the Life of Col. Routh Goshan\". Another fictional biography described his history as:\n\nThis worthy descendant of the Brohdignagian race first saw the light of day forty three years ago in the city of Jerusalem, Palestine. He is of Hebrew and Turkish descent. At present he stands seven feet eleven inches in his stocking feet, weighs 635 pounds, measures ninety one inches around the chest and ninety five inches round the waist. His arms are the thickness of saplings and his fist possesses the ponderosity of the hammer of Thor. The Colonel served in several eventful campaigns. He was in the Turkish army at Jerusalem, and fought through the Crimean war, the war of Italian independence and the campaign of Maximillian in Mexico. ...\nIn 1876, he toured the United States with Commodore Nutt as part of the Lilliputian Comic Opera's performance of a version of the story of Jack the Giant Killer. In 1878, he toured the United States with P. T. Barnum's New and Greatest Show on Earth. He toured with Barnum's Circus again in 1879, 1880, and 1883. In Summer 1882, he performed at Atlantic City, New Jersey. In June 1884, Goshen helped advertise clothing for a clothing house in Chicago, known for having a gigantic selection. In the following years, he exhibited himself at several dime museums. In July 1888, a fire occurred at Goshen's farm near Middlebush that destroyed several buildings and his collection of memorabilia.\n\nHe was married at least three times and divorced twice at the time of his death. In March 1859 in Massachusetts he married Clestina N. Townes of Montreal. Around 1869 he married Augusta White a German snake charmer that he met while traveling for his show. They settled near Clyde, New Jersey. At one point fellow circus performer, John Sweet and his wife the bareback rider Mrs. Elizabeth Sebastian lived with the Goshen family. Mrs. Sebastian left John Sweet, and while Goshen was away on tour, Augusta left Goshen. John Sweet and Augusta took $600 worth of silver, $70,000 worth of bonds, a goat, a horse and a wagon from Goshen's farm and eloped. Goshen filed for divorce around January 1879. He then married Mary Louise Welch on April 18, 1880 in Manhattan, NY. She was from Elgin, Illinois. She had met Goshen years earlier through her cousin who was fat lady who once toured with Goshen. After their marriage, they settled down in Middlebush, NJ. In August 1882, while working at Atlantic City, Goshen encountered John Sweet again. Goshen threatened to kill Sweet with a pistol he brandished, and then beat Sweet with a cane. At the time of the assault Sweet owned a farm in New Brunswick, New Jersey that Goshen had lost due to a mortgage, which Sweet had paid off. A warrant was issued for Goshen's arrest and he was ordered to appear before a court in September.\n\nIn early 1884, Goshen applied for divorce from Welch, claiming that she was unfaithful. She claimed that he had been unfaithful with three different women. During the divorce, it came out that he was really not an Arabian, but from Lancaster, England. He was also claiming to be sixty-five years old at that time. They were divorced in 1884.\n\nRouth also had two adopted daughters. Lillie, who married Martin Robert, a clog dancer, and Frances Goshen Sylvester (1868-1949). She may have traveled with him in Europe and she was said to have danced for Queen Victoria.\n\nHe died at his farm on Amwell Road in Middlebush, New Jersey on February 12, 1889. He had been living in Franklin Township for about 15 years. By the time of his death, he had accumulated a valuable estate. In his will he left everything to his adopted daughter Francis then the wife of Henry Sylvester. If she were to die without any heirs, Goshen wanted his estate to go to his sister, Margaret Caley Gelling of Rochester, New York. His will was contested by his ex-wife Mary Welch who was living with family in Elgin, Illinois.\n\nHis funeral was described in the following manner:\n\nThe farm house of the dead giant was thronged with villagers long before the hour fixed for the funeral. The remains had been placed in a coffin eight feet long and three feet wide. It was covered with cloth and had been specially made for the deceased. After the funeral services were over the coffin was borne on the shoulder of eight sturdy farmers to a wagon which was standing in the road about from the house. Undertaker Van Duyn said he could not find a hearse large enough to hold the giant's coffin. The pall bearers had a hard struggle in carrying the remains down the incline leading from the house to the road and when they deposited the coffin in the wagon, beads of perspiration stood out on their foreheads. A large crowd followed the remains to the Middlebush cemetery, where the interment took place.\n\nHe was originally buried without a tombstone for fear his body would be dug up and put on display. The cemetery is the Cedar Grove Cemetery in Middlebush, New Jersey. His tombstone reads \"Col. Routh Goshen, Middlebush Giant, 1837-1889\".\n\nThe connection between Arthur Caley and his alias Colonel Goshen was not well known by the public for years after Caley's death in 1889. In the last months of his life, it was reported that Goshen told that his real name was the similar-sounding Arthur Crowley, that he had been born on the Isle of Man about seventy years before, and that the stories previously told about his life were lies. An article about Caley and Goshen entitled \"The Mystery of Arthur Caley, the Manx Giant\" was published in 1962 in the \"Journal of Manx Museum\". In 1965 \"The New York Times\" ran an article about the life of Arthur Caley.\n\nThen in 1980, a letter was sent to the Middlebush Reformed Church stating that his real name was \"Arthur James Caley\", and claiming he was born in the village of Sulby on the Isle of Man in 1827. This would have him 62 years old when he died. In 2011 the book \"The Manx Giant: The Amazing Story of Arthur Caley\" was published that further documented Caley's life before and after becoming Colonel Goshen.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7133120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7133120", "title": "Commercial astronaut", "text": "Commercial astronaut\n\nA commercial astronaut is a person trained to command, pilot, or serve as a crew member of a privately funded spacecraft. This is distinct from an otherwise non-government astronaut, for example Charlie Walker, who flies while representing a non-government corporation but with funding and/or training coming from government sources.\n\nThe definition of “astronaut” and the criteria for determining who has achieved human spaceflight vary. The FAI defines spaceflight as any flight over of altitude. In the United States, professional, military, and commercial astronauts who travel above an altitude of are eligible to be awarded astronaut wings. Until 2003, professional space travelers were sponsored and trained exclusively by governments, whether by the military or by civilian space agencies. However, with the first sub-orbital flight of the privately funded Scaled Composites Tier One in 2004, the commercial astronaut category was created.\n\nWith the advent of private commercial space flight ventures in the U.S., the FAA has been faced with the task of developing a certification process for the pilots of commercial spacecraft. The Commercial Space Launch Act of 1984 established the FAA's Office of Commercial Space Transportation and required companies to obtain a launch license for vehicles, but at the time manned commercial flight - and the licensing of crewmembers - was not considered. The Commercial Space Launch Amendments Act has led to the issuance of draft guidelines by the FAA in February 2005 for the administration of vehicle and crew certifications. Currently, the FAA has not issued formal regulatory guidance for the issuance of a Commercial Astronaut Certificate, but as an interim measure, has established the practice of awarding \"Commercial Astronaut Wings\" to commercial pilots who have demonstrated the requisite proficiency. The content of 14 CFR Part 460 implies that an instrument rating and second-class medical certificate issued within the 12 months prior to the proposed qualifying flight will be included as a minimum standard.\n\nTwo FAA Commercial Astronaut Wings have been awarded to SpaceShipOne pilots Mike Melvill and Brian Binnie.\n\n"}
{"id": "3379748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3379748", "title": "David Berman (mobster)", "text": "David Berman (mobster)\n\nDavid Berman (1903–1957), nicknamed \"Davie the Jew\", was a Jewish-American organized crime figure in Iowa, New York City, Minneapolis, and Las Vegas. He was one of the pioneers of gambling in Las Vegas, where he was a partner with flamboyant mobster Bugsy Siegel at the Flamingo Hotel. Berman died a non-violent death in 1957 during surgery.\n\nBerman was born into a Jewish family in Odessa, Ukraine, at that time in the Russian Empire. His father was a former rabbinical student who played the violin. When he was a young child, his father departed for America and settled in Ashley, North Dakota, on land provided by Baron Maurice de Hirsch's Jewish Colonization Association. Berman then sent for his wife and children. Davie's mother was reportedly horrified after getting off the train and realizing that they had exchanged the warmth of Odessa for the icy cold of the Great Plains.\n\nAfter failing on the land, the Bermans moved to Sioux City, Iowa, where David got his start as a mobster. At the age of 13, he ran a crew of teenaged thugs committing petty shakedowns and eventually a string of illegal distilleries. He then went on to run his own bank-robbing crew. After developing close ties to the Genovese crime family, he moved to Minneapolis, where he operated a major bookmaking operation in rivalry with local mob bosses Kid Cann and Tommy Banks. One of Berman's closest enforcers during those years was Israel \"Ice Pick Willie\" Alderman, a homicidal Jewish gangster from North Minneapolis. His brother, \"Chickie\" Berman, also worked for him.\n\nDue to his close relationship with Minneapolis mayor Marvin L. Kline, Berman briefly eclipsed his rivals as boss of the Minneapolis gambling rackets.\n\nAccording to his daughter, Susan, Berman also used his crew to intimidate and terrorize members of the pro-Nazi Silver Shirts, driving them out of Minneapolis.\n\nPersecution of his fellow Jews enraged Berman so much that he enlisted in the Canadian Army. He had previously been turned away by the U.S. military as a convicted felon. In addition, Pearl Harbor had not yet brought the U.S. into World War II. He saw combat in the European Theater with the 18th Armoured Car Regiment (12th Manitoba Dragoons), a reconnaissance outfit, along with Minnesota friend Nathan Gittlewich. Berman was well-liked, and fellow troopers did not know of his criminal background.\n\nAfter his return to Minneapolis, Davie's gambling operations were shattered during the first term of racket busting Mayor Hubert Humphrey. Berman moved his crew to Las Vegas and operated there in concert with Genovese Family associate Moe Sedway,\n\nAlmost immediately after the 1947 assassination of Bugsy Siegel, Sedway and Berman walked into the lobby of the \"Flamingo\" and announced that they were in charge. Berman died on the operating table during surgery to remove polyps from his colon on Father's Day, 1957.\n\nWhile he lived in Minneapolis, Berman met and married Gladys Ewald, a German-American dancer who later converted to Judaism. The couple's only child, daughter Susan Berman, wrote a memoir about growing up as Las Vegas mob royalty titled \"Easy Street\" (1981). In her memoir, Susan indicated she knew little of her father's past until an acquaintance brought to her attention the mentions of her father in the book The Green Felt Jungle. Gladys Berman died shortly after Davie Berman at age 39 of an overdose of barbiturates, although it is unclear whether it was suicide. His daughter Susan Berman was murdered in her Southern California home — suspected murderer is Robert Durst.\n\n"}
{"id": "31625302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31625302", "title": "Elena Ferrante", "text": "Elena Ferrante\n\nElena Ferrante () is a pseudonymous Italian novelist, who has said that she was born in 1943 in Naples. Ferrante's books, originally published in Italian, have been translated into many languages. Her four-book series of \"Neapolitan Novels\" are among her best known works.\n\n\"Time\" magazine called Ferrante one of the 100 most influential people in 2016.\n\nFerrante is the name used by the author of half a dozen novels, the best known of which is the four-volume work known as the \"Neapolitan Novels\". The \"Neapolitan Novels\" tell the life story of two perceptive and intelligent girls born in Naples in 1944, who try to create lives for themselves within a violent and stultifying culture. The series consists of \"My Brilliant Friend\" (2012), \"The Story of a New Name\" (2013), \"Those Who Leave And Those Who Stay\" (2014), and \"The Story of the Lost Child\" (2015), which was nominated for the Strega Prize, an Italian literary award.\n\nFerrante holds that \"books, once they are written, have no need of their authors.\" She has repeatedly argued that anonymity is a precondition for her work and that keeping her true name out of the spotlight is key to her writing process. According to Ferrante, \n\nThe first appearance of her work in English was the publication of a short story entitled \"Delia's Elevator,\" translated by Adria Frizzi in the anthology \"After the War\" (2004). It narrates the movements of the title character on the day of her mother's burial, particularly her return to her safe retreat in the old elevator in the apartment building where she grew up.\n\nThe fourth book of Ferrante's Neapolitan quartet, \"The Story of the Lost Child\", appeared on \"The New York Times\" 10 Best Books of 2015.\n\nDespite being recognized as a novelist on an international scale, Ferrante has kept her identity secret since the publication of her first novel in 1992. Speculation as to her true identity has been rife, and several theories have been put forth, based on information Ferrante has given in interviews as well as analysis drawn from the content of her novels.\n\nIn 2003, Ferrante published \"La Frantumaglia\" (The Act of Falling Apart), a volume of her correspondence with editors, which shed some light on her identity; it was translated into English only in 2016. Nonetheless, in a 2013 article for \"The New Yorker\", critic James Wood summarized what is generally accepted about Ferrante, based in part upon these collected letters:\n\nIn March 2016, Marco Santagata, an Italian novelist and philologist, a scholar of Petrarch and Dante, and a professor at the University of Pisa, published a paper detailing his theory of Ferrante's identity. Santagata's paper drew on philological analysis of Ferrante's writing, close study of the details about the cityscape of Pisa described in the novel, and the fact that the author reveals an expert knowledge of modern Italian politics. Based on this information, he concluded that the author had lived in Pisa but left by 1966, and therefore identified the probable author as Neapolitan professor Marcella Marmo, who studied in Pisa from 1964 to 1966. Both Marmo and the publisher deny Santagata's identification.\n\nIn October 2016, investigative reporter Claudio Gatti published an article jointly in \"Il Sole 24 Ore\" and \"Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung\", that relied on financial records related to real estate transactions and royalties payments to draw the conclusion that , a Rome-based translator, is the real author behind the Ferrante pseudonym. Gatti's article was criticized by many in the literary world as a violation of privacy, though Gatti contends that the anonymity was intended to increase profits, and he had the right to strip those profits away. British novelist Matt Haig tweeted, \"Think the pursuit to discover the ‘real’ Elena Ferrante is a disgrace and also pointless. A writer’s truest self is the books they write.\" Others, however, have suggested that knowledge of Ferrante's biography is indeed relevant. In December 2016, the controversial Italian prankster Tommaso Debenedetti published on the website of the Spanish daily \"El Mundo\" a purported interview with Raja confirming she is Elena Ferrante; this was quickly denied by Ferrante's publisher, who called the interview a fake.\n\nIn September 2017, a team of scholars, computer scientists, philologists and linguists at the University of Padua analyzed 150 novels written in Italian by 40 different authors, including seven books by Elena Ferrante. Based on analysis using several authorship attribution models, they concluded that Anita Raja's husband, author and journalist Domenico Starnone, is the probable author of the Ferrante novels. Ferrante has repeatedly dismissed suggestions that she is actually a man, telling \"Vanity Fair\" in 2015 that questions about her gender are rooted in a presumed “weakness” of female writers.\n\nTwo of Ferrante's novels have been turned into films. \"Troubling Love\" (\"L'amore molesto\") became the feature film \"Nasty Love\" directed by Mario Martone, while \"The Days of Abandonment\" (\"I giorni dell'abbandono\") became a film of the same title directed by Roberto Faenza. In her nonfiction book \"Fragments\" (\"La frantumaglia\" 2003), Ferrante speaks of her experiences as a writer.\n\nIn 2016, it was reported that a 32-part television series, \"The Neapolitan Novels\", was in the works and will be co-produced by the Italian producer Wildside for Fandango Productions, with screenwriting led by the writer Francesco Piccolo. In September 2018, the first two episodes of the renamed \"My Brilliant Friend\", an Italian-language miniseries co-produced by American premium cable network HBO and Italian networks RAI and TIMvision, were aired at the Venice Film Festival. HBO started airing the complete eight episode miniseries, focusing on the first book in the \"The Neapolitan Novels\", in November 2018.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1801475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1801475", "title": "Epiphanes (gnostic)", "text": "Epiphanes (gnostic)\n\nEpiphanes is the legendary author of \"On Righteousness\", a notable Gnostic literary work that promotes communist principles, that was published and discussed by Clement of Alexandria, in \"Stromaties, III\". Epiphanes was also attributed with founding Monadic Gnosis. G.R.S. Mead however thinks that Epiphanes was a legend and may not have been an actual person, that the real author of \"On Righteousness\" may be the Valentinian, Marcus.\n\nAccording to Clement, Epiphanes was born on Cephalonia in the late 1st Century or early 2nd Century to Carpocrates (his father), and Alexandria of Cephalonia (his mother). Epiphanes died at the age of 17. Clement wrote that Epiphanes was \"worshipped as a god with the most elaborate and lascivious rites by the Cephalonians, in the great temple of Samē, on the day of the new moon.\" Mead discusses that the idea of temple worship is probably a misunderstanding, that Clement may have mistaken the worship of the moon god \"Epiphanes\" with a person of the same name. The Epiphany was a sun-moon festival at the Samē temple. The new moon's life of 17 days (in the lunar cycle) may have been misunderstood as Epiphanes' 17 years of life.\n\nOn the other hand, Vanderbilt Professor Kathy L. Gaca (The Making of Fornication:Eros, Ethics, and Political Reform in Greek Philosophy and Early Christianity, University of California Press, 2003) promotes a view of Epiphanes as one of the voices in early Christianity who held a positive and liberationist view of sexual pleasure, and who was among those like him who were ultimately silenced by the victorious sex-negative leadership represented by Clement of Alexandria, Tatian, Ambrose, Jerome and Augustine.\nAnother legend that Epiphanes led Monadic Gnosis, may have come from misunderstanding of the Greek word \"eiphanes\" which may have been mistaken as a personal name if in text, when in fact the Greek means \"distinguished\", as in a \"distinguished teacher.\"\n\nA notable belief attributed to Epiphanes and described in \"On Righteousness\" was the idea of communal living or communism, including shared property and spouses. The text begins: \"The righteousness of God is a kind of sharing along with equality.\" The idea of communal living may have come from Plato's ideas in \"The Republic.\" Clement took this very seriously as a sign of libertine promiscuity, but the real followers were likely to be more philosophical and merely observant of the Early Christian practice of Agape, communal feasts and property.\n\n"}
{"id": "3541653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3541653", "title": "George Brayton", "text": "George Brayton\n\nGeorge Bailey Brayton was an American mechanical engineer and inventor. He was noted for introducing the constant pressure engine that is the basis for the gas turbine, and which is now referred to as the Brayton cycle.\n\nIn 1872 George Brayton patented a constant pressure internal combustion engine, initially using vaporized gas but later using liquid fuels such as kerosene and oil, known as \"Brayton's Ready Motor\", The engine used one cylinder for compression, a receiver reservoir, and a separate power/expander cylinder in which the products of combustion expanded for the power stroke. The significant difference from other piston driven internal combustion engines is that the two cylinders are arranged so that the fuel/air mixture burns progressively at constant pressure as it is transferred from the compressor cylinder and reservoir to the working/expansion cylinder. In the original version a gas/air mixture was created by a vapor carburetor, then compressed and stored in a reservoir where it was ignited and then introduced into an expansion cylinder. A metal gauze/mesh was used to prevent the combustion running back to the reservoir. However at times the mesh failed, leading to flash-back or explosion. In 1874 Brayton filed a patent for a liquid fuel injection system. In this version, fuel was introduced as the air passed into the expansion cylinder, thus eliminating the explosion problem. Ignition remained a pilot flame. The principle was referred to as constant pressure combustion, and had been attempted without success by Sir William Siemens c1861 using a 4-cylinder engine with a separate combustion chamber. Brayton not only achieved success in making the constant pressure cycle work, but he also made and marketed a commercial product.\n\nBrayton cycle engines were some of the first engines to be used for motive power.\nIn 1881 John Philip Holland used a Brayton engine to power the world's first successful self-propelled submarine, the Fienian Ram.\n\nAlso the Selden auto of 1878 used a Brayton cycle engine. This design never actually ran. When the Brayton engine was applied to an omnibus in 1878 as part of a project between Brayton and the engineers George and James Fawcett the latter described the attempt as a 'complete failure'.\nThe engine's cycle of operations including sectional drawings and indicator diagrams for both gas and petroleum fueled versions. Details of the way the liquid fuel was introduced are described over 11 pages of Dugald Clerk's book \"Gas and Oil Engines\". The petroleum engine in these tests was made by the \"New York and New Jersey Ready Motor Company\". This is followed by a similar analysis of Simon's engine which was an adaptation of the Brayton engine made by Louis Simon & Sons, in Nottingham, UK and marketed as \"The Eclipse Silent Gas Engine\". The Simon engine had an added complexity in that it injected some of the water/steam heated by the engine/exhaust into the engine. The indicator diagrams for this engine are also reported by Dugald Clerk and show that the addition of the water has little merit in terms of power production, the cooling of the gases and expansion of the steam compensating for each other.\n\nBecause the Brayton engine had a slow progressive burn of the fuel/air mixture it was possible to maintain a pilot flame, and so the engine, once lit, needed no form of ignition system. The measured efficiency of the gas engine was intermediate between that of the Lenoir/Hugon engines, and the Otto & Langen atmospheric engine, but the liquid fueled Brayton engine had an advantage in not requiring a gas supply.\n\nThe early Brayton gas engine had the engine speed governed by varying the point of cut-off for the admission of the combusted gases into the power cylinder, and the admissions of gas and air to the pump was similarly regulated to maintain the reservoir pressure. The liquid fueled engine reported by Clerk only regulated the cut-off to the power cylinder, and used a pressure relief valve to limit the reservoir air pressure. The reservoir on the Brayton engine allowed it to be readily started if it remained pressurized, though Clerk states that \"leakage and loss were so frequent that the apparatus was of little use.\"\n\nBrayton's engine was displayed at the Centennial Exposition in Philadelphia in 1876, and the Simon variant was displayed at the 1878 Paris Exhibition, and for a few years was well regarded, but within a short time the Otto engine became more popular. However, it was considered the first safe and practical oil engine and also served as inspiration to George B. Selden. As a production engine the design evolved over time, and according to Henry de Graffigny in \"Gas and Petroleum Engines\", it was available in both vertical and horizontal forms.\n\nA Brayton Engine is preserved in the Smithsonian Institution in the American History museum, and a later Brayton engine which powered one of John Philip Holland's early submarines is preserved in the Paterson Museum in the Old Great Falls Historic District of Paterson, New Jersey.\n\nIn 1890 Brayton patented a 4 stroke engine with an air blast fuel injection system. Diesel's first engines used an air blast atomization system that was very similar to Brayton's . Unlike Diesel's engine Brayton's engine was fairly low compression. The ignition source was a constantly glowing mesh of platinum. \n\nLater Diesel engines used a system of high pressure fuel injection nearly identical to Brayton's 1887 engine where the fuel was admitted into the combustion area as it passed through a spring loaded relief nozzle, This caused the fuel to become much more combustable. Here is the discovery in Brayton's own words \" “I have discovered that heavy oils can be mechanically converted into a finely-divided condition within a firing portion of the cylinder, or in a communicating firing chamber.” Another part reads “I have for the first time, so far as my knowledge extends, regulated speed by variably controlling the direct discharge of liquid fuel into the combustion chamber or cylinder into a finely-divided condition highly favorable to immediate combustion.” US Patent #432114\n\n\n"}
{"id": "193424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=193424", "title": "George Villiers, 2nd Duke of Buckingham", "text": "George Villiers, 2nd Duke of Buckingham\n\nGeorge Villiers, 2nd Duke of Buckingham, 20th Baron de Ros, (30 January 1628 – 16 April 1687) was an English statesman and poet.\n\nGeorge was the son of George Villiers, 1st Duke of Buckingham, favourite of James I and Charles I, and his wife Katherine Manners. He was only seven months old when his father was assassinated at Portsmouth by the renegade officer John Felton. Subsequently he was brought up in the royal household of Charles I, together with his younger brother Francis and the King's own children, the future Charles II and James II. He was educated at Trinity College, Cambridge, where he obtained the degree of Master of Arts in 1642. For a time he was taught geometry by Thomas Hobbes. During this time he was also acquainted with George Aglionby, whose influence he later accredited with persuading him to follow the English King in the Civil War.\n\nIn the Civil War he fought for the King, and took part in Prince Rupert of the Rhine's attack on Lichfield Close in April 1643.\n\nUnder the care of the Earl of Northumberland, George and his brother travelled abroad and lived in Florence and Rome. When the Second English Civil War broke out they joined Royalists under the command of Henry Rich, 1st Earl of Holland in Surrey, in July 1648.\n\nHolland scraped together a small force of 600 men and appointed Buckingham as his General of the Horse. This force was scattered after a minor engagement near Kingston upon Thames in which Buckingham's brother Francis was killed. Buckingham himself escaped after an heroic stand against six Roundhead opponents, his back against an oak tree, which became the stuff of Cavalier legend. After another doomed combat at St Neots the Duke succeeded in escaping to the Netherlands.\n\nBecause of his participation in the rebellion, his lands, which had been restored to him in 1647 on account of his youth, were confiscated and given to his future father-in-law, Thomas, Lord Fairfax, who refused to compound. On 19 September 1649, Charles II conferred on him the Order of the Garter (KG) and admitted him to his Privy Council on 6 April 1650.\n\nIn opposition to Hyde, Buckingham supported the alliance with the Scottish Presbyterians, accompanied Charles to Scotland in June, and allied himself with the Marquess of Argyll, dissuading Charles from joining the Royalist plot of October 1650, and being suspected of betraying the plan to the covenanting leaders. That May, he had been appointed general of the eastern association in England, and was sent to raise forces abroad; the following year, he was chosen to lead the projected movement in Lancashire and to command the Scottish royalists. He fought alongside Charles at the Battle of Worcester on 3 September 1651, but escaped alone to Rotterdam in October.\n\nHis subsequent negotiations with Oliver Cromwell's government, and his readiness to sacrifice the interests of the church, separated him from the rest of Charles's advisers and diminished his influence. His estrangement from the royal family was completed by his audacious courtship of the king's widowed sister Mary, Princess of Orange, and by a money dispute with Charles.\n\nIn 1657 he returned to England, and on 15 September married Mary, daughter of Anne and Thomas Fairfax, 3rd Lord Fairfax of Cameron, who had fallen in love with him although the banns of her intended marriage with Philip Stanhope, 2nd Earl of Chesterfield were being called in church. Buckingham was soon suspected of organizing a Presbyterian plot against the government. An order was issued for his arrest on 9 October, despite Fairfax's interest with Cromwell. He was placed under house arrest at York House in April 1658, escaped, and was rearrested on 18 August. He was then imprisoned in the Tower of London until his mother and father-in-law negotiated his release on 23 February 1659. He was freed after promising not to assist the enemies of the government, and on Fairfax's security of £20,000. He joined Fairfax in his march against General John Lambert in January 1660, and afterwards claimed to have gained Fairfax to the cause of the Restoration.\n\nThe returning King Charles at first received Buckingham (who met him at his landing at Dover) coldly, but Buckingham was soon back in favour. He was appointed a Gentleman of the Bedchamber, carried the Sovereign's Orb at the coronation on 23 April 1661, and was made Lord Lieutenant of the West Riding of Yorkshire on 21 September. The same year, he accompanied Princess Henrietta to Paris to marry the Duke of Orleans, but made such shameless advances to her that he was recalled. On 28 April 1662 he was admitted to the Privy Council. His confiscated estates, amounting to £26,000 a year, were restored to him, and he was said to be the king's richest subject. He helped suppress the projected insurrection in Yorkshire in 1663, went to sea in the Second Anglo-Dutch War in 1665, and took measures to resist the Dutch or French invasion in June 1666.\n\nHe was, however, debarred from high office by the influence of Edward Hyde, 1st Earl of Clarendon, the Chancellor. Buckingham now plotted to effect the Chancellor's ruin. He organized parties in both Houses of Parliament to support the Importation Act 1667 prohibiting the import of Irish cattle, partly to oppose Clarendon and partly to thwart the Duke of Ormonde. Having asserted during the debates that \"whoever was against the bill had either an Irish interest or an Irish understanding\", he was challenged by Lord Ossory. Buckingham avoided the encounter, and Ossory was sent to the Tower. A short time afterwards, during a conference between the two Houses on 19 December, he came to blows with the Marquess of Dorchester: Buckingham pulled off the marquess's periwig, and Dorchester also \"had much of the duke's hair in his hand.\" According to Clarendon, no misdemeanour so flagrant had ever before offended the dignity of the House of Lords. The offending peers were both sent to the Tower, but were released after apologising; and Buckingham vented his spite by raising a claim to the title of Baron Ros, held by Dorchester's son-in-law. His opposition to the government had lost him the king's favour, and he was now accused of treasonable intrigues, and of having cast the king's horoscope. His arrest was ordered on 25 February 1667, and he was dismissed from all his offices. He avoided capture till 27 June, when he gave himself up and was imprisoned in the Tower.\n\nHe was released by 17 July, was restored to favour and to his appointments on 15 September, and took an active part in the prosecution of Clarendon. When Clarendon fell, he became the chief minister, even though he held no high office except that of Master of the Horse, bought from the Duke of Albemarle in 1668. In 1671 he was elected chancellor of Cambridge, and in 1672 high steward of the University of Oxford. He favoured religious toleration, and earned the praise of Richard Baxter; he supported a scheme of comprehension in 1668, and advised the Royal Declaration of Indulgence in 1672. He upheld the original jurisdiction of the Lords in Skinner's Case. With these exceptions Buckingham's tenure of office was chiefly marked by scandals and intrigues. His illicit connection with the Countess of Shrewsbury led to a duel with her husband the Earl at Barn Elms on 16 January 1668, in which the Earl was fatally wounded. The tale that the countess witnessed the encounter disguised as a page appears to have no foundation; but Buckingham provoked an outrage when he installed the \"widow of his own creation\" in his own and his wife's house.\n\nBuckingham was thought to be behind the idea of obtaining the divorce of the childless queen, Catherine of Braganza (though this never happened). He intrigued against James, Duke of York, against Sir William Coventry—one of the ablest statesmen of the time, whose fall he procured by provoking Coventry to send him a challenge—and against the Duke of Ormonde, who was dismissed in 1669. He was even suspected of having instigated Thomas Blood's attempt to kidnap and murder Ormonde, and was charged with the crime in the king's presence by Ormonde's son, Lord Ossory, who threatened to shoot him dead in the event of his father's meeting with a violent end. Arlington, next to Buckingham himself the most powerful member of the \"Cabal\" and a favourite of the king, was less easy to overcome; and he derived considerable influence from the control of foreign affairs entrusted to him. Buckingham always been an adherent of the French alliance, while Arlington concluded through Sir William Temple the Triple Alliance of 1668. On the complete \"volte-face\" and surrender made by Charles to France in 1670, Arlington, a Roman Catholic, was entrusted with the first Treaty of Dover of 20 May—which besides providing for the united attack on Holland, included Charles's undertaking to proclaim himself a Catholic and to reintroduce the Roman Catholic faith into England,—while Buckingham was sent to France to carry on the sham negotiations which led to the public treaties of 31 December 1670 and 2 February 1672. He was much pleased with his reception by Louis XIV, declared that he had \"more honours done him than ever were given to any subject\", and, was presented with a pension of 10,000 livres a year for Lady Shrewsbury.\n\nIn June 1672, during the Third Anglo-Dutch War, he accompanied Arlington to Nieuwerbrug to impose terms on the Prince of Orange, and when these were refused with Arlington arranged a new treaty, the Accord of Heeswijk with Louis. After all this activity he suffered a keen disappointment in being passed over for the command of the newly formed Blackheath Army in favour of the Duke of Schomberg. Buckingham was given command of a regiment, but resented serving under Schomberg. He now knew of the secret treaty of Dover, and towards the end of 1673 his jealousy of Arlington became open hostility. He threatened to impeach him, and endeavoured with the help of Louis to stir up a faction against him in parliament.\n\nThis, however, was unsuccessful, and in January 1674 both houses of Parliament attacked Buckingham. In the Lords, the trustees of the young Earl of Shrewsbury complained that Buckingham publicly continued his affair with the Countess, and that a son of theirs had been buried in Westminster Abbey with the title of Earl of Coventry; Buckingham and the countess were required to apologize and give security for £10,000 not to cohabit together again. In the House of Commons he was attacked as the promoter of the French alliance, of \"popery\" and arbitrary government. He defended himself chiefly by endeavouring to blame Arlington; but the house approved a petition to the king to remove Buckingham from his councils, presence and from employment forever. Charles, who had been waiting for a favourable opportunity, and who was enraged at Buckingham's disclosures, quickly consented.\n\nBuckingham retired, reformed his ways, attended church with his wife, began to pay his debts, became a \"patriot\", and was claimed by the country or opposition party as one of their leaders. In the spring of 1675 he was conspicuous for his opposition to the Test Oath and for his abuse of the bishops, and on 16 November he introduced a bill for the relief of the nonconformists. On 15 February 1677 he was one of the four lords who tried to embarrass the government by raising the question whether the parliament, not having assembled according to the act of Edward III once in the year, had not been dissolved by the recent prorogation. The motion was rejected and the four lords were ordered to apologize. When they refused, they were sent to the Tower, Buckingham in particular exasperating the House by ridiculing its censure. He was released in July, and immediately entered into intrigues with Paul Barillon, the French ambassador, with the object of hindering the grant of supplies to the king; and in 1678 he visited Paris to get the assistance of Louis XIV for the opposition's cause.\n\nHe took an active part in prosecuting those implicated in the \"Popish Plot\", and accused the lord chief justice (Sir William Scroggs) in his own court while on circuit of favouring the Roman Catholics. Because of this, a writ was issued for his arrest, but it was never served. He promoted the return of Whig candidates to Parliament, constituted himself the champion of the dissenters, and was admitted a Freeman of the City of London. He, however, separated himself from the Whigs on the exclusion question, probably on account of his dislike of the Duke of Monmouth and the Earl of Shaftesbury, was absent from the great debate in the Lords on 15 November 1680, and was restored to the king's favour in 1684.\n\nHe took no part in public life after James II's accession, but returned to his manor of Helmsley in Yorkshire, probably because of poor health and exhausted finances. In 1685 he published a pamphlet, entitled \"A short Discourse on the Reasonableness of Man's having a Religion\" in which after discussing the main subject he returned to his favourite topic, religious toleration. The tract provoked some rejoinders and was defended, amongst others, by William Penn, and by the author himself in \"The Duke of Buckingham's Letter to the unknown author of a short answer to the Duke of Buckingham's Paper\" (1685). In hopes of converting him to Roman Catholicism, James sent him a priest, but Buckingham ridiculed his arguments. He died on 16 April 1687, from a chill caught while hunting, in the house of a tenant in Kirkbymoorside in Yorkshire (it is known as Buckingham House and it is located in the town centre), expressing great repentance and feeling himself \"despised by my country and I fear forsaken by my God\".\n\nThe miserable picture of his end drawn by Alexander Pope is greatly exaggerated. Buckingham was buried on 7 June 1687 in Henry VII's chapel in Westminster Abbey, with greater splendour than the late king. With his death, the family founded by the extraordinary rise to power and influence of the first duke ended. As he left no legitimate children, the title became extinct, and his great estate was completely dissipated; of the enormous mansion he constructed at Cliveden in Buckinghamshire only the arcaded terrace remains.\n\nBuckingham was one of the archetypal Restoration rakes, part of the \"Merry Gang\" of courtiers whose other members included John Wilmot, 2nd Earl of Rochester, Sir Charles Sedley, Charles Sackville, 6th Earl of Dorset, and the playwrights William Wycherley and George Etherege. Following the tone set by the monarch himself, these men distinguished themselves in drinking, sex and witty conversation. Buckingham is often judged ostentatious, licentious, and unscrupulous, the \"Alcibiades of the seventeenth century.\" But even his critics agree that he was good-humoured, good-natured, generous, an unsurpassed mimic, and the leader of fashion. His good looks and amusing wit made him irresistible to his contemporaries, in spite of his moral faults and even crimes. A contemporary observer at the Court of Charles II found him: \"Courteous, affable, generous, magnanimous...he is adored by the people...On the other hand he is an atheist, blasphemer, violent, cruel and infamous for his licentiousness, in which he is so wrapped up that there is no sex, nor age, nor condition of persons who are spared from it\". His portrait has been drawn by Burnet, Count Hamilton in the \"Memoires de Grammont\", John Dryden, Alexander Pope in the \"Epistle to Lord Bathurst\", and Sir Walter Scott in \"Peveril of the Peak\". John Reresby calls him \"the first gentleman of person and wit I think I ever saw\", and Burnet bears the same testimony. Dean Lockier, after alluding to his unrivalled skill in riding, dancing and fencing, adds, \"When he came into the presence-chamber it was impossible for you not to follow him with your eye as he went along, he moved so gracefully\". Racing and hunting were his favourite sports, and his name long survived in the hunting songs of Yorkshire.\n\nThe Duke was the patron of Abraham Cowley, Thomas Sprat, Matthew Clifford and William Wycherley. He dabbled in chemistry, and according to Thomas Burnet, \"he thought he was very near the finding of the philosopher's stone.\" He set up the Vauxhall glassworks at Lambeth, the productions of which were praised by John Evelyn; and he spent much money, according to his biographer Brian Fairfax, in building \"substructiones insanae.\" John Dryden described him under the character of Zimri in celebrated lines in the poem \"Absalom and Achitophel\" (to which Buckingham replied in \"Poetical Reflections on a late Poem ... by a Person of Honour\", 1682):\n\nBuckingham, however, cannot with any truth be called \"mankind's epitome\". On the contrary, the distinguishing features of his life are incompleteness, aimlessness, imperfection, insignificance, neglected talent and wasted opportunity. \"He saw and approved the best\", says Brian Fairfax, \"but did too often \"deteriora sequi\" (Latin > \"follow the worst\")\". He is more severely but more justly judged by himself. In light-hearted moments he wrote \"Methinks, I see the wanton houres flee, And as they passe, turne back and laugh at me\", but his last recorded words, \"O! what a prodigal have I been of that most valuable of all possessions—Time!\" express with exact truth the fundamental flaw of his character and career, of which he had at last become conscious.\n\nBuckingham wrote occasional verses, pamphlets, lampoons, satires and plays showing undoubted (but undeveloped) poetic gifts, a collection of which, containing however many pieces not from his pen, was first published by Tom Brown in 1704; while a few extracts from a commonplace book of Buckingham of some interest are given in an article in the \"Quarterly Review\" of January 1898. He was the author of \"The Rehearsal\", an amusing and clever satire on the heroic drama and especially on Dryden's \"The Conquest of Granada\" (first performed on 7 December 1671, at the Theatre Royal, and first published in 1672), a deservedly popular play which was imitated by Henry Fielding in \"Tom Thumb the Great\", and by Sheridan in \"The Critic\". It is believed that Samuel Butler had a hand in it. Dryden had his revenge in his picture of Buckingham as \"Zimri\" in \"Absalom and Achitophel\". Buckingham also published two adapted plays: a version of John Fletcher's \"The Chances\" (1682) and \"The Restoration or Right will take place\", from Beaumont and Fletcher's \"Philaster\" (publ. 1714); and also \"The Battle of Sedgmoor\" and \"The Militant Couple\" (publ. 1704). The latest edition of his works is that by T. Evans (2 vols. 8vo, 1775). Another work is named by Wood, \"A Demonstration of the Deity\", of which there is now no trace.\n\nLike his father, the younger Duke makes an appearance in Alexandre Dumas père's \"Musketeer\" novels. \"The Vicomte de Bragelonne\" sees him escorting Charles II's sister, Henrietta, to France to be married to Philippe I, Duke of Orléans. He is soon smitten with the young lady, which Philippe perceives quickly, and appeals to his mother, Anne of Austria. Anne, whose love for Villiers Senior was chronicled in \"The Three Musketeers\", convinces him that, due to his feelings, it would be best for French-English relations if he returned home. While in France, however, he earns the enmity of Comte de Wardes, whose father was the lover of Milady de Winter, who was responsible for the old Villiers' death. De Wardes escorts him to a boat destined for England, but before departing, the two men duel and de Wardes is injured.\n\nThe American actor and director Norman Lloyd portrayed the 2nd Duke of Buckingham in the 1957 episode \"The Trial of Colonel Blood\" of NBC's anthology series, \"The Joseph Cotten Show\".\n\nIn the 2003 British television mini-series \"\", Villiers is portrayed by the British actor Rupert Graves.\n\nIn the 2004 motion picture \"Stage Beauty\", Ben Chaplin plays him.\n\n\nAttribution:\n"}
{"id": "41271400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41271400", "title": "Gil Kahele", "text": "Gil Kahele\n\nGilbert Kahele (May 15, 1942 – January 26, 2016) was an American politician and a Democratic member of the Hawaii Senate since January 16, 2011 representing District 1. Kahele was appointed by Governor Neil Abercrombie to fill the vacancy caused by the appointment of Russell S. Kokubun as Hawaii Commissioner of Agriculture. He died in office on January 26, 2016 after being hospitalized one week prior.\n\nGilbert Kahele was born in a grass shack by the sea on May 15, 1942 at Kalihi, just south of the Hawaiian fishing village of Miloliʻi in South Kona.\n\nBorn to Peter and Rebecca Kahele, both of Hawaiian descent, Gilbert was the third-born behind brothers Ronald and Peter and would be the older brother to Leighton, Mona, and Corrine.\n\nKehele attended Hilo High School, played on the Vikings football team and graduated in 1960.\n\nKahele served in the United States Marine Corps. for four years in the engineering troop responsible for refrigeration.\n\nAfter the military Kahele graduated with an Associate degree in Science in 1967 from Laney College\n\nKahele moved back to Hawaiʻi where he began a civil service career that would last 33 years. He got a job with the Federal Government at Naval Station Wahiawa as a refrigeration mechanic. He married United Airlines stewardess Linda Haggberg in October of 1971, and the couple lived in Wahiawa. In 1976, the couple moved to Hilo. They had two children, Kai and Noelani. For the next 25 years Gil drove from Hilo up the Saddle Road to his job at the Pohakuloa Training Area, where he would eventually retire in 2000 as the Director of Public Works.\n\nDuring the 1980s, Kahele spent a lot of time in Miloliʻi and made a name for himself as a successful community organizer in South Kona.\n\nGovernor Neil Abercrombie selected Gil Kahele to represent Senate District Two on Hawaiʻi Island after Senator Russell Kokubun resigned his seat to take a position in Governor Abercrombieʻs cabinet.\n\nKahele died early January 26, 2016, after a short illness which caused him to miss the 2016 Hawaii State Legislature’s opening day.\n\nKahele attended Laney College.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4670608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4670608", "title": "Gracie family", "text": "Gracie family\n\nThe Gracie family () is a prominent martial arts family from Brazil known for their development of Brazilian jiu-jitsu (BJJ). They have been successful in combat sport competitions including mixed martial arts, vale tudo, and submission wrestling events. As a family, they uphold the Gracie challenge, which promotes their style of modern jiu-jitsu. Members are affinally and consanguineously related to the Machado family.\n\nOne part of the Gracie family line in Brazil descended from George Gracie, a Scotsman from the Carronhill estate in Dumfriesshire who emigrated in 1826 when he was 25 years old. George was a son of James (b. 1772), the second son of family patriarch George Gracie (b. 1734), and Jean Patterson. From George came Pedro, from Pedro came Gastão, who was the father of Carlos Gracie and Hélio Gracie. Carlos Gracie and Hélio Gracie are 1/8 Scottish.\n\nGastão Gracie from Rio de Janeiro, the grandson of George Gracie through his son Pedro married Cesarina Pessoa Vasconcellos, the daughter of a wealthy Ceará family, in 1901 and decided to settle in Belém do Pará. Gastão Gracie became a business partner of the American Circus in Belém. In 1916, the Italian Argentine Queirolo Brothers staged circus shows there and presented Mitsuyo Maeda, a Japanese \"judoka\" and prize fighter. In 1917, Carlos Gracie, the eldest son of Gastão Gracie, watched a demonstration by Mitsuyo Maeda at the Da Paz Theatre and decided to learn judo. Conde thus accepted to teach Gastão's son Carlos. In 1921, however, following financial hardship and his own father Pedro's demise, Gastão Gracie returned to Rio de Janeiro with his family.\n\nMaeda's teachings were then passed on through local Rio coaches to Carlos and brothers Oswaldo, Gastão Jr., and George and Hélio. There's a version saying that Helio was too young and sick at that time to learn the art and due to his medical imposition was prohibited to physically partake in training, but it is now known that he became a coxswain for the local rowing team as well as a competitive swimmer. Hélio successfully learned the art of Jiu Jitsu. Today, Hélio and Carlos are both widely considered by the Jiu Jitsu community and Gracie family as the founders of modern Brazilian jiu-jitsu.\n\nFor a number of years, the Gracie family ran a competitive monopoly on Vale Tudo events. Through their competitive rise, the men allocated power and influence with which they sought to promote Gracie family members within the Vale Tudo community.\n\nRoger Gracie won the World Jiu-Jitsu Championship 10 times in various weight divisions (6 times at 100 kg, once at 100+kg, and 3 times in the Absolute division). He also won the Pan-American Championship in the Absolute division in 2006 and the European Championships in 2005 in the 100+kg and Absolute divisions.\n\nKron Gracie won the ADCC Submission Wrestling World Championship in the under 77 kg division in 2013 and the European Championships in the 82 kg division in 2009.\n\nClark Gracie won the Pan-American Championship in the under 82 kg division in 2013.\n\nKyra Gracie won the ADCC Submission Wrestling World Championship in the Women's under 60 kg division in 2005, 2007, and 2011 and the World Jiu-Jitsu Championship four times (three times in the Women's under 64 kg division and once in the Women's Absolute Division).\n\nNotable members of the Brazilian Gracie family include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54001691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54001691", "title": "Griffith Davies (poet)", "text": "Griffith Davies (poet)\n\nGriffith Davies (1868-1962) was a Welsh poet from the Llanuwchllyn area Merionethshire. He was raised by his mother, his father having died before he was born, and was educated at the local school, and for a time at Owen Owen's (1850 - 1920) school in Oswestry. For most of his life he lived as a farmer, farming Bryncaled farm in Merionethshire. He also served as a deacon of Yr Hen Gapel (Congregational church), Llanuwchllyn, and was for a time Vice-President of the Merioneth Historical Society.\n\nHis writings include a number of contributions to the local press, and articles written for 'Y Tyst', 'Dysgedydd', and 'Geninen'. In 1910 he published a booklet containing his awdl (long poem) to Michael D. Jones. \"Awen Gwyndaf Llanuwchllyn\", a volume of his works, was published posthumously in 1966, edited by James Nicholas. He died in 1962, and was buried in the new cemetery at Llanuwchllyn.\n"}
{"id": "864591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=864591", "title": "Hugo Strange", "text": "Hugo Strange\n\nHugo Strange is a fictional supervillain appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics, commonly as an adversary of the superhero Batman. The character is one of Batman's first recurring villains and is also one of the first Batman villains to discover the hero's secret identity.\n\nHugo Strange first appeared in \"Detective Comics\" #36 (February 1940) and was created by Bill Finger and Bob Kane.\n\nHugo Strange first appears as a scientist who uses a stolen \"concentrated lightning\" machine to generate a dense fog every night, allowing his gang to rob banks unseen, though he knows Batman poses a threat to him. Batman, who already knows of Strange's experiments, begins investigating him after one of his henchmen kills a man. When his henchmen are apprehended, Strange vows to set a trap for Batman as the next target on the list. When Batman arrives, over a dozen of Strange's men are waiting for him, and one of them knocks him out with a blackjack. He wakes up in Strange's lair, where Strange hangs him from his wrists and lashes him with a whip. Batman breaks the ropes, gasses the room, and tackles Strange, who is jailed but plans to escape. In \"Batman\" (vol. 1) #1 he escapes from the \"city asylum\" with a gang of criminals, then breaks out \"five insane patients\" and uses them as test subjects, turning them into hulking 15 ft. monsters by administering a powerful artificial growth hormone that acts on the pituitary gland. They wear bulletproof clothing, and he releases them to wreak havoc in Gotham City while his men commit robberies. Strange administers the serum to Batman after the giants capture him, saying it will work in 18 hours. Batman tricks two of the monsters into killing each other, and then saves himself by creating a drug that prevents any abnormal secretions from the pituitary gland. He is then able to kill all the other monsters, and sends Strange to his apparent demise, although he suspects that the mad scientist has survived. In \"Detective Comics\" #46, Strange starts spreading a fear-inducing powder around the city until a punch from Batman sends him falling to his apparent death.\n\nHe returned in the 1970s during the \"Strange Apparitions\" story arc. Having survived his earlier \"death\", Strange is running a private hospital for Gotham's wealthiest citizens—where he holds them for ransom and changes them into monsters. When Bruce Wayne checks into the hospital to recover discreetly from radiation burns he sustained while fighting Doctor Phosphorus, Strange finds out that Wayne is Batman and proceeds to wreak havoc on his personal life. Strange then attempts to auction the identity of Batman to Gotham City Council Boss Rupert Thorne, Penguin, and Joker. Thorne has Strange kidnapped and beaten to reveal Batman's identity, but Strange apparently dies before he can tell them. Strange's ghost comes back to haunt Thorne, driving the council boss insane. Thorne confesses his long career of corruption and is sent to Arkham Asylum.\n\nAs revealed in \"Batman\" (vol. 1) #356 (February 1983) Strange had indeed survived the beating from Thorne's men, by using yoga to slow his heartbeat to an undetectable level. Strange artificially created the \"ghost\" that haunted Thorne which drove him to confess to the authorities. Subsequently, Strange attempts to weaken Bruce Wayne through the use of drugs and robots, with the ultimate goal of usurping the mantle of Batman. The plan fails, and Strange apparently dies once more when he blows up a replica of Wayne Manor. Later, Strange returns in \"Batman Annual\" #10 (1986), in another attempt to destroy Batman and Bruce Wayne, attempting to financially bankrupt Wayne by using various tricks to force Wayne Enterprise shareholders to sell their stocks to him, allowing him to bankrupt Wayne, but he is defeated and sent to prison. Batman casts further doubt on Strange's deductions of his identity by claiming that he hypnotized Strange just before Commissioner Gordon showed up to make the arrest, leaving Strange doubting his own mind as he wonders if Batman is attempting a complex double-bluff.\n\nThe Earth-Two version of Strange has a similar history and also survives the fall he experienced. He is left paralyzed but, after years of physical therapy, he regains enough movement to write out the surgical techniques needed to repair the damage to his body—and bribes a surgeon to perform the operation. The surgeon lacks Strange's skill, and the operation leaves Strange physically deformed (the surgeon dies for his failure). Strange uses one of his devices to capture Starman's Cosmic Rod, to use its power to attack everyone and everything Batman holds dear. He generates a storm in Gotham to obtain the device, which creates a dimensional doorway to Earth-One, bringing that universe's Batman over to Earth-Two and allows him and that world's Robin to join with the original Batwoman in defeating Strange. Strange realizes that he is, in fact, angry at his own wasted life and deformed body. Strange then uses the Cosmic Rod to commit suicide.\n\nIn the Post-\"Crisis\" continuity, Strange was reintroduced in the \"\" storyline as a psychiatrist enlisted to help a police taskforce capture Batman. While brilliant at his work, Strange is depicted as being equally unbalanced: he is so obsessed with Batman, he takes to dressing up like Batman in private, convinced that he understands the darkness that drives Batman when he really constantly underestimates Batman's strength.\n\nAccording to Commissioner James Gordon, Strange was \"abandoned as a child, grew up in state homes. A bright kid, but he apparently had a hell of a temper. Nobody knows \"how\" he put himself through college and medical school.\" He was raised in an orphanage on the lower East Side of Gotham, not far from the infamous \"Crime Alley\", in the heart of a part of Gotham known as \"Hell's Crucible\". Strange became a Professor of Psychiatry at Gotham State University, but had his tenure suspended due to his increasingly bizarre genetic engineering theories. At some point, he is approached by an Indian man named Sanjay, who seeks Strange's aid in curing his sick brother. Strange agrees to help, and Sanjay works loyally by his side from that point onward. Borrowing money from gangster Sal Maroni, who is in the employ of Gotham's criminal kingpin Carmine Falcone, Strange sets up a lab. He then bribes a corrupt orderly to give him incurably insane inmates from Arkham Asylum—who have been institutionalized so long that they will not be missed.\n\nStrange's experiments have literally monstrous results, with his test subjects turning into gigantic, mindless \"Monster Men\", possessing superhuman strength and cannibalistic instincts. Strange uses these Monster Men to raise the money he needs to pay back his Mafia connections. Batman becomes involved after discovering some of the gruesome remains of the Monster's Men's cannibalistic rampages. When Strange sets his creations free at an illegal poker game, helping himself to the victims' money after the slaughter, his Mafia connections begin to grow suspicious. Batman tracks Strange down, but is captured by Sanjay and thrown to the Monster Men as an intended meal. Batman not only holds off the creatures, but uses them in part of an inventive escape. Strange is enthralled by Batman, believing that he has found a genetically perfect man. He creates one final Monster Man using a drop of Batman's blood, and while his creation still has many of the flaws of its \"brothers\", it lacks most of the grotesque disfigurements that had plagued Strange's earlier work. Strange is forced to destroy his lab in order to evade capture. Soon after, he turns the Monster Men loose, including Sanjay's brother (who had been mutated in a failed attempt to cure him), at Falcone's estate, where Strange's Mafia connections are staying. Strange wants a fresh start, and realizes that the Mafia is still a link to his experiments. In the battle that follows, all of the Monster Men are killed, along with Sanjay (who was attempting to avenge his brother). Strange escapes amid the chaos, and succeeds in eradicating all links between himself and his experiments. Confident that he can not be linked to them, he begins to appear on TV as a psychological expert on the Batman.\n\nIt is possible that the events of Doug Moench and Paul Gulacy's \"Prey\" storyline take place at this point. Partly due to Hugo Strange's appearance on TV as a psychological expert, Captain Gordon is ordered to assemble a task force to capture Batman (with Strange working as a consultant to it, to deduce Batman's secret identity). As the task force's investigation progresses, Strange grows increasingly maniacal in his obsession with Batman, going so far as expressing a desire to become Batman and dressing up in a replica Batsuit. To that end, Strange attempts to kill the Caped Crusader and permanently replace/impersonate him. However, Strange repeatedly underestimates the level of physical conditioning needed to be Batman (e.g., incorrectly theorizing that Batman was driven into activity by a personal tragedy suffered within just the past five years—while Gordon already knows that a lifetime of training would really be required). Strange also diagnoses Batman with various personality disorders, such as explaining Batman's use of a costume as symptomatic of multiple personality disorder, whereas Gordon more accurately explains the Batsuit's intended purpose as 'scaring the pants off criminals'. Strange eventually concludes that Bruce Wayne is most likely Batman, brainwashes the task force's commander into becoming a lethal vigilante (as part of a plot to turn public sentiment against Batman) and kidnaps the Mayor's daughter dressed as the Dark Knight. Despite Strange's attempt to psychologically 'break' Batman by creating recordings and mannequins of Thomas and Martha Wayne, blaming Bruce for their deaths, which he sets up in Wayne Manor, Bruce is able to collect himself and focus in the Batcave. The following day, he confronts Strange and tricks Strange into doubting his own hypothesis about Batman's secret identity, claiming that his parents live in Paraguay and he has no idea what Strange is talking about when he discusses mannequins. Strange is ultimately exposed, but he is shot twice by the task force when he attempts to escape dressed in his replica Batsuit, and falls into a river. Hugo Strange is presumed dead.\n\nIn Doug Moench's \"Terror\" storyline, Strange mysteriously comes back. He decides to work with another of Batman's enemies, the Scarecrow, and use him as a tool to help him capture Batman, while simultaneously having fallen into a further delusional state as he engages in a 'relationship' with a female mannequin in Batman's cowl, reflecting his warped dual admiration and loathing of Batman. Scarecrow turns on Strange when Strange's therapy proves effective enough to turn Scarecrow against his 'benefactor', tricking Strange into falling into the cellar of his mansion base where the twisted psychiatrist is impaled on a weather vane Crane had left in the cellar earlier. The Scarecrow then uses Strange's mansion as a trap for Batman, but his attempt to use Strange's plan fails when he only learns of Strange's plan to use Crime Alley as the scene of a trap while ignorant of the reasons \"why\" that alley is so significant to Batman, with his 'trap' merely consisting of luring Batman into the alley and decapitating a former classmate of Crane's in front of Batman. With Catwoman's help, Batman locates Scarecrow's hideout and catches Scarecrow in the cellar with Strange's body before the house is destroyed in a fire, but loses sight of Strange, with it being unclear whether Strange had actually survived the fall onto the weather vane-he claimed that he lured rats to himself by using his sweat so that he could eat them-or if Scarecrow and Batman were hallucinating from exposure to Crane's new fear-gas, although Batman concludes that the subsequent explosion of the house has definitely killed Strange.\n\nBoth \"Prey\" and \"Terror\" are set during Batman's early years. In the modern timeline, Strange returns in a four-part storyline called \"Transference\". Initially appearing in his own Batsuit, he captures Catwoman with the aid of his henchwoman Dora-a former patient whose identity issues have been 'focused' by Strange so that she will act as Catwoman, albeit wielding a gun-and attempts to interrogate her about Batman's current status, Strange dismissing the existence of Batman's new allies by proclaiming them to be 'parasites' as he cannot accept that Batman would share his 'power'. He is then shown posing as a psychiatrist doing standard stress evaluations at Wayne Enterprises. While Bruce Wayne is on the couch, Strange drugs him with a powerful hallucinogen in order to coax Wayne into admitting that he is Batman. Wayne is able to escape using a cleaning fluid from the office storage cupboard to start a fire, dresses as Batman to fake the Dark Knight's death when the Batmobile explodes just as he lands in it, and triggers a post-hypnotic suggestion in himself, forcing him to completely repress the Batman aspect of his mind until Robin and Nightwing can thwart Strange. Faced with Nightwing and Robin each denying that Wayne is Batman and Wayne's own obvious lack of combat reflexes, Strange becomes concerned that his theory that Bruce Wayne is Batman has been disproved and that he may have actually killed Batman. Faced with this conflicting situation, Strange has a mental breakdown and is taken to Arkham Asylum.\n\nFollowing that, Strange reappears as the head of a gang of supervillains attempting to take control of Gotham's East Side, then controlled by Catwoman. Catwoman joins Strange's gang, then allows its members to \"find out\" that she intends to betray them, faking her death when they attempt to eliminate her. Although she defeats and imprisons most of the gang, and even convinces Strange to leave the East Side alone, Strange still mocks her by pointing out that he had faked his own death far more often than she had.\n\nIn \"Batman\" #665, Batman tells Tim Drake that a huge man dressed like a combination of Bane and Batman had beaten him up and he suspects the impostor had used \"Hugo Strange's monster serum and daily Venom shots\" to gain his size and strength.\n\nIn the story arc \"Gotham Underground\", Strange is associating with other supervillains such as the Mad Hatter, Doctor Death and Two-Face. Strange and the others are rounded up by the Suicide Squad.\n\nStrange takes part in the limited series \"Salvation Run\". He is amongst the supervillains imprisoned on another planet.\n\nStrange appears in \"The Batman Adventures\", which is set in the DC Animated Universe. Issues #35 and 36 of the comic book provide him with a tragic backstory: he witnessed the murder of his son David by mob boss Rupert Thorne and was so overcome with grief that he sought to literally erase the memory with his mind control technology. The plan backfired, however; following the experiment, he could remember \"nothing but\" his son's death. After Batman stops him from killing Thorne, Strange is imprisoned in Arkham Asylum.\n\n\"The New 52\" (a 2011 reboot of the DC Comics universe) introduces the reader to his son Eli Strange for the first time. Eli is first seen playing a game of poker with the Russian Mob, betting a valuable bracelet, winning big and cleaning house. Before he can walk away with his winnings, the mobster forces him to play another hand, in which he discovers Eli's sleeve is loaded with cards. Before he can give the order to have him killed, the mobster's thugs realize their bracelet (Eli's was a fake replica) had been stolen, Catwoman pounces from the ceiling and takes out the entire group of criminals. She thanks Eli for being her distraction (the two having been working together the entire time) and tells him to run home to his father, which he is last seen doing.\n\nLater, Hugo Strange uses Eli to oversee an operation to dose Gotham with fear gas. Scarecrow led Batman to believe that a small boy in a picture would be harmed unless he put a stop to it. Arriving at the scene, Batman realizes that the small boy was actually Eli. He manages to avert the disaster and Eli is arrested.\n\nDuring the \"Forever Evil\" storyline, Hugo Strange is among the supervillains recruited by the Crime Syndicate to join the Secret Society of Super Villains.\n\nHugo Strange appears in \"DC Rebirth\" during the \"Night of the Monster Men\" crossover event. Although apparently ignorant of Batman's identity, he is now determined to prove his superiority by attacking Gotham with a group of 'Monster Men' created from corpses of former patients as representations of what Strange perceives as Batman's greatest flaws: his ego, grief, manipulative nature, childhood, and basic fear, ultimately provoking Batman into a confrontation at Strange's office penthouse headquarters. Strange wears what he terms a 'suicide suit'-a near-replica of the Batsuit without the cape and cowl that is rigged to detonate if its wearer is subjected to any physical attack-on the assumption that Batman will have no choice but surrender the cowl to him as the 'true' Batman. Nightwing is able to defeat the final monster-an amalgamation of the previous ones-by literally leaping inside it to inject it with a pre-prepared antidote, while Batman outwitted Strange by having Clayface cover the penthouse in a airtight seal prior to the confrontation. It results with a delirious Strange losing consciousness while Batman is still standing, Nightwing musing that Strange failed to realize that Batman's flaws were actually his motivation in protecting Gotham.\n\nIn the \"Batman '66\" universe, Hugo Strange is initially a psychiatrist at the Arkham Institute, until being revealed as a villain in \"Batman '66 Meets the Man from U.N.C.L.E.\". \n\nIn the \"DC Bombshells\" universe, Hugo Strange is a eugenicist attempting to improve the gene pool. He weeds out what he considers unclean. \n\nFollowing Killer Frost's plan to create a race of superhumans, Hugo Strange allied himself with Penguin and Harvey Dent. With Harvey Dent at the head of Gotham City, Hugo Strange would have had access to all Gothamites' genes and control the generations to come. When the Batgirls attempted to stop Penguin and his allies, Hugo Strange used his modified gun to force the Batgirls to fight each other. However, Harvey Dent eventually betrayed Penguin and him in favour of the Batgirls. Hugo Strange fled in response, promising to find other scientists sharing his dream.\nHugo Strange found new allies within the Soviets. They fund his researches and he created several clones using Supergirl's DNA, among which Power Girl, who became the U.S.S.R.'s secret weapon, and Superman, that he considered a failure. \n\nOne year later, Hugo Strange captured Supergirl and Steve Trevor. With Supergirl as a guinea pig, Hugo Strange intended to create a perfect army to purge the world. During the tests, Supergirl was able to turn Power Girl against Hugo Strange, and Reaper and Lois Lane, who had found the laboratory thanks to Killer Frost, blew up the laboratory's security system. Hugo Strange attempted to stop Reaper, Lois Lane, Steve Trevor, Power Girl and Supergirl using his remaining clones. However, they were able to leave the place without a fight, taking Superman with them. \n\nProfessor Hugo Strange makes his live action debut in season two of \"Gotham\", portrayed by BD Wong. He is depicted as the insane Chief of Psychiatry at Arkham Asylum and overseer of Indian Hill, a secret division of Wayne Enterprises that performs inhumane experiments on superhuman individuals. In this continuity, Strange has a major effect on several villains in the Batman rogues gallery: subjecting Oswald Cobblepot to mind-altering experiments to make him a contributing member of society; and transforms Victor Fries and Bridgit Pike into Mr. Freeze and Firefly, respectively. His number one project is resurrecting the dead; starting with Theo Galavan, whom he reinvents as the warrior Azrael. It is also revealed that he was a friend and colleague of Bruce Wayne's father Thomas, playing a role in the Wayne murders, and that his resurrection experiments are funded by a mysterious council. But the actions of a resurrected Fish Mooney lead to Strange's arrest while the various specimens in his care are set loose in Gotham. In Season 3, Fish Mooney breaks him out of his prison cell to find a cure for her condition. Penguin corners them in the woods, but decides to let them escape as Fish and Strange leave Gotham. Before they depart, Penguin tells both of them to never return to Gotham City. In the episode \"Heroes Rise: Light the Wick,\" Hugo Strange is brought back to Gotham City by Kathryn Monroe of the Court of Owls into extracting Alice Tetch's poisonous blood from Nathaniel Barnes and weaponizing it. He tests the weaponized blood on a man that the Court of Owls obtained. James Gordon and Harvey Bullock later found the secret lab where he was working. After tranquilizing the test subject, Hugo Strange gave them the research on the weaponized blood and a sample that he secretly kept from the Court of Owls in exchange that they do not arrest him and cause the Court of Owls to go ahead with their plans early.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "552919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=552919", "title": "Ibrahim Babangida", "text": "Ibrahim Babangida\n\nIbrahim Badamasi Babangida (born 17 August 1941), is a retired Nigerian Army General who was President of Nigeria from 27 August 1985 to 26 August 1993. He previously served as the chief of army staff from January 1984 to August 1985. Babangida was a key player in most of the military coups in Nigeria (July 1966, February 1976, December 1983, August 1985, December 1985 and April 1990).\n\nIbrahim Babangida was born on 17 August 1941, in Minna, Niger State, to his father Muhammad Babangida and mother Aisha Babangida. \n\nFrom 1950 to 1956, Ibrahim Babanginda attended primary school. From 1957 to 1962 Babangida was educated at the Government college, Bida, Niger state, Nigeria.\n\nBabangida joined the Nigerian Army on 10 December 1962, when he attended the Nigerian Military Training College (NMTC) in Kaduna. Babangida received his commission as a 2nd Lieutenant as a regular combatant officer in the Royal Nigerian Army (a month before it became the Nigerian Army) with the personal army number N/438 from the Indian Military Academy on 26 September 1963. Babangida and General Mohammed Magoro were among the first batch of Nigerian graduates from the NMTC who attended the Indian Military Academy from April to September 1963. Others in subsequent batches from Babangida's NMTC class include Garba Duba and Ibrahim Sauda. Babangida furthered his armoury training from January 1966 until April 1966 by enrolling in Course 38 of the Young Officers' Course (ARMED) in the United Kingdom where he received a four-month course in Saladin and gunnery.\n\nFrom August 1972 to June 1973, he took the Advanced Armoured Officers' course at Armored school. He attended the Senior officers' course, Armed Forces Command and Staff College, Jaji, from January 1977 until July 1977 and the Senior International Defence Management Course, Naval Postgraduate school, U.S., in 1980.\n\nHe was heavily involved in quelling the Nigerian coup of 1976, when he was to ‘liberate’ a radio station from one of the coup plotters, Col Buka Suka Dimka (a close friend of his), to prevent him making further announcements over the air waves. Although he did prevent further broadcasts, Col Dimka managed to escape.\n\nHe attained the following ranks: Second Lieutenant (1963), Lieutenant (1966), Captain (1968), Major (1970), Lieutenant Colonel (1970), Colonel (1973), Brigadier (1979), Major General (1983), and General (1987). Babangida also served as a member of the Supreme Military Council from 1 August 1975 to October 1979.\n\nBabangida, then a lieutenant with the 1st Reconnaissance Squadron in Kaduna, was one of the many officers of northern Nigerian origin who staged what became known as the Nigerian Counter-Coup of 1966 which resulted in the death of Nigeria's first military Head of State, General Aguiyi Ironsi (who had taken power in another coup earlier that year), and his replacement with General Yakubu Gowon.\n\nBabangida was the Chief of Army Staff and a member of the Supreme Military Council (SMC) under the administration of Major General Muhammadu Buhari. Babangida would later overthrow Buhari's regime on 27 August 1985 in a military coup that relied on mid-level officers that Babangida had strategically positioned over the years.\n\nWith the oil revenue, Babangida created the Federal Environmental Protection Agency in 1985. He created eleven state governments and several local government councils. He had the Toja Bridge in Kebbi constructed. He also created the Jibia Water Treatment Plant and the Challawa Cenga Dam in Kano. In 1992, constituted the Oil Mineral Producing Area Development Commission. Babangida also increased the share of oil royalties and rents to state of origin from 1.5 to 3 percent.\n\nIn January 1986, Nigeria joined the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) as its 46th member. The OIC was established in 1969. The chief of staff supreme headquarters, Commodore Ebitu Okoh Ukiwe, was removed and replaced from his post as chief of staff supreme headquarters by Babangida, because Ukiwe was opposed to the registration of Nigeria, a secular country, in the OIC.\n\nOn 23 September 1987, Babangida created two states: Akwa Ibom and Katsina. On 27 August 1991, Babangida created nine more states: Abia, Enugu, Delta, Jigawa, Kebbi, Osun, Kogi, Taraba and Yobe. Bringing the total number of states in Nigeria to thirty in 1991.\n\nBabangida issued a referendum to garner support for austerity measures suggested by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank, and subsequently launched his \"Structural Adjustment Program\" (SAP) in 1986. The policies involved in the SAP were: \n\nBetween 1986 and 1988, these policies were executed as intended by the IMF, and the Nigerian economy actually did grow as had been hoped, with the export sector performing especially well. But falling real wages in the public sector and among the urban classes, along with a drastic reduction in expenditure on public services, set off waves of rioting and other manifestations of discontent that made sustained commitment to the SAP difficult to maintain.\n\nBabangida subsequently returned to an inflationary economic policy and partially reversed the deregulatory initiatives he had set in motion during the heyday of the SAP following mounting political pressure, and economic growth slowed correspondingly, as capital flight resumed apace under the influence of negative real interest rates.\n\nOn 22 April 1990, Babangida's government was almost toppled by a failed coup led by Major Gideon Orkar. Babangida was at the Dodan Barracks, the military headquarters and presidential residence, when they were attacked and occupied by the rebel troops, but managed to escape by a back route. Orkar and 41 of his conspirators were countered, captured by government troops. They were convicted of treason. On 27 July 1990, they were executed by firing squad.\n\nOn 12 December 1991, President Babangida relocated the seat of the federal government from Lagos to Abuja.\n\nIn 1989, Babangida legalized the formation of political parties, and after a census was carried out in November 1991, the [ National Electoral Commission]] (NEC) announced on 24 January 1992 that both legislative elections to a bicameral National Assembly and a presidential election would be held later that year. A process of voting was adopted, referred to as Option A4. This process advocated that any candidate needed to pass through adoption from the local level to any height of governance.\n\nBabangida had formed two political parties, namely the SDP (Social Democratic Party) and NRC (National Republican Convention) for the elections. He urged all Nigerians to join either of the parties, which the late Chief Bola Ige famously referred to as \"two leper hands.\" The two-party state had been a recommendation of the 17-member Political Bureau.\n\nThe legislative elections went ahead as planned, with the Social Democratic Party (SDP) winning majorities in both houses of the National Assembly, but on 7 August 1992, the INEC annulled the first round of presidential primaries, alleging widespread irregularities. On 4 January 1993, Babangida announced a National Defense and Security Council (NDSC), of which he was president, while in April 1993, the SDP nominated Moshood Kashimawo Olawale Abiola (MKO) as its presidential candidate, with the National Republican Convention (NRC) choosing Bashir Tofa to run for the same position. On 12 June 1993, a presidential election was finally held, but no results were ever announced, because Babangida annulled the elections. It was however unofficially announced in some states that Abiola had won 19 of the 30 states. That Abiola had unofficially won the general election.\n\nThe killing by a letter bomb of Dele Giwa, a magazine editor critical of Babangida's administration, at his Lagos home in 1986 was allegedly attributed to Babangida and remains a controversial incident to this day. In 1999, President Olusegun Obasanjo established the Human Rights Violation Investigation Commission headed by Justice Chukwudifu Oputa to investigate human rights abuses during Nigeria's decades of military rule. However, Babangida repeatedly defied summons to appear before the panel to answer allegations of humans rights abuses and questioned both the legality of the commission and its power to summon him. He was however represented by counsels, Mustapha Bashir Wali and Yahya Mahmoud. His right not to testify was upheld in 2001 by Nigeria's court of appeal which ruled that the panel did not have the power to summon former rulers of the country.\n\nThe Oputa Panel Report would conclude that: \"On General Ibrahim Babangida, we are of the view that there is evidence to suggest that he and the two security chiefs, Brigadier General Halilu Akilu and Col. A. K. Togun are accountable for the untimely death of Dele Giwa by letter bomb. We recommend that this case be re-opened for further investigation in the public interest.\"\n\nIn an interview with the \"Financial Times\" on 15 August 2006, Babangida announced that he would run for president in Nigeria's 2007 national elections. He said he was doing so \"under the banner of the Nigerian people\" and accused the country's political elite of fuelling Nigeria's current ethnic and religious violence.\n\nOn 8 November 2006, General Babangida picked up a nomination form from the Peoples Democratic Party Headquarters in Abuja, Nigeria. This effectively put to rest any speculation about his ambitions to run for the Presidency. His form was personally issued to him by the PDP chairman, Ahmadu Ali. This action immediately drew extreme reactions of support or opposition from the western population of the country. In early December, just before the PDP presidential primary, however, it was widely reported in Nigerian newspapers that IBB had withdrawn his candidacy to be the PDP's nominee to run for president. In a letter excerpted in the media, IBB is quoted as citing the \"moral dilemma\" of running against Umaru Yar'Adua, the younger brother of the late Shehu Yar'Adua (himself a former nominee to run for the Presidency during IBB's military regime), as well as against General Aliyu Mohammed Gusau, given IBB's close relationship with the latter two. It is widely believed that his chances of winning were slim.\n\nOn 15 September 2010, Babangida officially declared his intention to run for the presidency in the general election at the Eagles Square in Abuja, Nigeria. Babangida later withdrew his nomination for the presidency, due to lack of support from party members. President Goodluck Jonathan was chosen by the PDP party to run for the 2011 general election.\n\nIbrahim Badamasi Babangida was married to Maryam (née King) Babangida (deceased) (First Lady of Nigeria 1985–93). They had four children together: Muhammadu, Aminu, Aishatu, and Halimatu. Maryam Babangida died from complications of ovarian cancer on 27 December 2009.\n\nGeneral Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida (Rtd.) has received several awards and medals. In alphabetical order they include: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "9727128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9727128", "title": "Jan Fredrik Wiborg", "text": "Jan Fredrik Wiborg\n\nJan Fredrik Wiborg (9 October 1944 – 21 June 1994) was a Norwegian civil engineer.\n\nDuring the early 1990s, he criticised plans for building Oslo's new airport at Gardermoen. The Parliament of Norway had originally decided to build the new airport at Hurumlandet, but weather surveys claimed this location would only be operable 80% of the time. Wiborg claimed the information was falsified and that parliament were deliberately misled by government officials.\n\nWiborg died on 21 June 1994 after falling from a hotel window in Copenhagen, and crucial documents about the case disappeared. Circumstances about his death was never fully cleared. Journalists from the newspaper \"Aftenposten\" were awarded the prestigious SKUP prize in 1999 for their investigation of the case.\n\nIn 2000 the parliamentary Standing Committee on Scrutiny and Constitutional Affairs held a public hearing about the alleged foul play during the airport planning process. An official report was released in 2001.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "193872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=193872", "title": "Jean-Jacques Dessalines", "text": "Jean-Jacques Dessalines\n\nJean-Jacques Dessalines (Haitian Creole: Jan-Jak Desalin; ; 20 September 1758 – 17 October 1806) was a leader of the Haitian Revolution and the first ruler of an independent Haiti under the 1805 constitution. Initially regarded as governor-general, Dessalines was later named Emperor Jacques I of Haiti (1804–1806) by the Generals of the Haitian Revolution Army. He is regarded as one of the founding fathers of Haiti.\n\nDessalines served as an officer in the French army, when the colony was fending off Spanish and British incursions. Later he rose to become a commander in the revolt against France. As Toussaint Louverture's principal lieutenant, he led many successful engagements, including the Battle of Crête-à-Pierrot.\n\nAfter the betrayal and capture of Toussaint Louverture in 1802, Dessalines became the leader of the revolution. He defeated a French army at the Battle of Vertières in 1803. Declaring Haiti an independent nation in 1804, Dessalines was chosen by a council of generals to assume the office of governor-general. He ordered the 1804 Haiti massacre of French settlers in Haiti, resulting in the deaths of between 3,000 and 5,000 people, but declared that all other whites such as the Polish Haitians could remain in the new country. In September 1804, he was proclaimed emperor by the Generals of the Haitian Revolution Army and ruled in that capacity until being assassinated in 1806.\n\nJean-Jacques Duclos was born into slavery on Cormier, a plantation near Grande-Riviere-du-Nord. His father had adopted the surname from his owner Henri Duclose. The identity of Jean-Jacques' parents, as well as his region of ancestral origin in Africa, are not known, but most slaves trafficked to Haiti came from west and central West Africa.\n\nDessalines had two brothers, Louis and Joseph Duclos, who also later took the name Dessalines. The first was the father of Maréchal de Camp Monsieur Raymond Dessalines, created 1st Baron de Louis Dessalines on 8 April 1811, aide-de-camp to King Henry I, privy councilor, secretary-general of the Ministry of War between 1811 and 1820 and member of the Royal Chamber of Public Instruction between 1818 and 1820, who received the degree of Knight of the Order of St. Henry on 1 May 1811. He was killed by the revolutionaries at Cap-Henri on 10 October 1820. The second was the father of Maréchal de Camp Monsieur Dessalines, created 1st Baron de Joseph Dessalines in 1816, chamberlain to Prince Jacques-Victor Henry, the Prince Royal of Haiti, and major of the Grenadiers de la Garde, who received the degree of Knight of the Order of St. Henry on 28 October 1815.\n\nWorking in the sugarcane fields as a laborer, Dessalines rose to the rank of \"commandeur\", or foreman. He worked on Duclos's plantation until he was about 30 years old. The slave Jean-Jacques was bought by a free black man named Dessalines, who assigned his own surname to him. From then on he was called Jean-Jacques Dessalines. Dessalines kept this name in freedom. He worked for that master for about three years, until the slave uprising of 1791, which spread across the Plaine du Nord.\n\nDessalines became increasingly embittered toward both the whites and \"gens de couleur libres\" (the mixed-race residents of Saint-Domingue) during the years of fighting the revolution against residents and foreign troops: French, British and Spanish. After the defeat of French royalists during the Haitian Revolution, he ordered the killing of all royalists to ensure that Saint-Domingue would be a nation. Yet, after declaring himself Governor-for-Life in 1804, Jean-Jacques Dessalines was still willing to take his old master Dessalines into his house and gave him a job.\n\nIn 1791, Jean-Jacques Dessalines joined the slave rebellion of the northern plains led by Jean François Papillon and Georges Biassou. This rebellion was the first action of what would become the Haitian Revolution. Dessalines became a lieutenant in Papillon's army and followed him to Santo Domingo, where he enlisted to serve Spain's military forces against the French colony of Saint-Domingue.\n\nIt was then that Dessalines met the rising military commander Toussaint Bréda (later known as Toussaint Louverture), a mature man also born into slavery, who was fighting with Spanish forces on Hispaniola. These men wanted above all to defeat slavery. In 1794, after the French declared an end to slavery, Toussaint Louverture switched allegiances to the French. He fought for the French Republic against both the Spanish and British. Dessalines followed, becoming a chief lieutenant to Toussaint Louverture and rising to the rank of brigadier general by 1799.\n\nDessalines commanded many successful engagements, including the captures of Jacmel, Petit-Goâve, Miragoâne and Anse-à-Veau. In 1801, Dessalines quickly ended an insurrection in the north led by Louverture's own nephew, General Moyse. Dessalines gained a reputation for his \"take no prisoners\" policy, and for burning homes and entire villages to the ground.\n\nThe rebellious slaves were able to restore most of Saint-Domingue to France, with Louverture in control and finally appointed by the French as governor general of the colony. Louverture wanted Saint-Domingue to have more autonomy. He directed the creation of a new constitution to establish that, as well as rules for how the colony would operate under freedom. He also named himself governor-for-life, while still swearing his loyalty to France.\n\nThe French government had been through changes and was led by Napoleon Bonaparte, whose wife, Josephine de Beauharnais was part of a slave-owning family. Many white and mulatto planters had been lobbying the government to reimpose slavery in Saint-Domingue. The French responded by dispatching an expeditionary force to restore French rule to the island, an army and ships led by General Charles Leclerc. Louverture and Dessalines fought against the invading French forces, with Dessalines defeating them at the battle for which he is most famous, Crête-à-Pierrot.\n\nDuring the 11 March 1802 battle, Dessalines and his 1,300 men defended a small fort against 18,000 attackers. To motivate his troops at the start of the battle, he waved a lit torch near an open powder keg and declared that he would blow the fort up should the French break through. The defenders inflicted heavy casualties on the attacking army, but after a 20-day siege they were forced to abandon the fort due to a shortage of food and munitions. Nonetheless, the rebels were able to force their way through the enemy lines and into the Cahos Mountains, with their army still largely intact.\n\nThe French soldiers under Leclerc were accompanied by mulatto troops led by gens de couleur Alexandre Pétion and André Rigaud from Saint-Domingue. Pétion and Rigaud, both sons of wealthy with white fathers, had opposed Louverture's leadership. They had tried to establish separate independence in the South of Saint-Domingue, an area where wealthy \"gens de couleur\" were concentrated in plantations. Toussaint Louverture's forces had defeated them three years earlier.\n\nAfter the Battle of Crête-à-Pierrot, Dessalines defected from his long-time ally Louverture and briefly sided with Leclerc, Pétion, and Rigaud. Dessalines was at least partially responsible for Louverture's arrest, as asserted by several authors, including Louverture's own son Isaac. On 22 May 1802, after Dessalines \"learned that Louverture had failed to instruct a local rebel leader to lay down his arms per the recent ceasefire agreement, he immediately\nwrote Leclerc to denounce Louverture’s conduct as “extraordinary.”\". For this action, Dessalines and his spouse received gifts from Jean Baptiste Brunet.\n\nWhen it became clear that the French intended to re-establish slavery on Saint-Domingue, as they had on Guadeloupe, Dessalines and Pétion switched sides again in October 1802, to oppose the French. By November 1802, Dessalines had become the leader of the alliance [light skinned free coloreds] with the blessing of the most prominent of free coloreds, mulatto general Alexandre Pétion. Leclerc died of yellow fever, which also took many French troops.\n\nThe brutal tactics of Leclerc's successor, Rochambeau, helped to unify rebel forces against the French. Dessalines, the leader of the Revolution after Toussaint's capture on 7 June 1802, commanded the rebel forces against a French army weakened by a yellow fever epidemic. His forces achieved a series of victories against the French, culminating in the last major battle of the revolution, the Battle of Vertières. On 18 November 1803, black and mulatto forces under Dessalines and Pétion attacked the fort of Vertières, held by Rochambeau, near Cap-Français in the north. Rochambeau and his troops surrendered the next day. On 4 December 1803, the French colonial army of Napoleon Bonaparte surrendered its last remaining territory to Dessalines' forces. This officially ended the only slave rebellion in world history which successfully resulted in establishing an independent nation.\n\nDessalines then promulgated the Declaration of Independence in 1804, and declared himself emperor.\n\nOn 1 January 1804, from the city of Gonaïves, Dessalines officially declared the former colony's independence and renamed it \"Ayiti\" after the indigenous Taíno name. He had served as Governor-General of Saint-Domingue since 30 November 1803. After the declaration of independence, Dessalines named himself Governor-General-for-life of Haiti and served in that role until 22 September 1804, when he was proclaimed later Emperor of Haiti by the Generals of the Haitian Revolution Army. He was crowned Emperor Jacques I in a coronation ceremony on 6 October in the city of Le Cap. On 20 May 1805, his government released the Imperial Constitution, naming Jean-Jacques Dessalines emperor for life with the right to name his successor.\n\nDessalines tried hard to keep the sugar industry and plantations running and producing without slavery. Born into slavery and having worked under white masters for 30 years, as well as having seen many atrocities by all peoples, Dessalines did not trust the white French people. Between February and April 1804, he had the white Haitian minority killed by ordering the 1804 Haiti Massacre. Dessalines declared Haiti an all-black nation and forbade whites from owning property or land there.\n\nThe French meanwhile had fled to the Spanish side of the island and had holed themselves up in Santo Domingo. Dessalines and Christophe went after them at the head of 20,000 men. The Spanish side was a colony of fewer than 175,000 souls. The French force numbered perhaps 500 and the local colonial militia had no more than 1000 men. The armed Haitian juggernaut advanced sweeping everything in its path. In the town of Moca, one of the places that fell to Christophe, 40 children were beheaded; altogether more than 600–6000 perished or were taken away in captivity as spoils of war, according to the eyewitness Gaspar de Arredondo y Pichardo.\n\nDessalines enforced a harsh regimen of plantation labor, described by the historian Michel-Rolph Trouillot as \"caporalisme agraire\" (agrarian militarism). As had Toussaint Louverture, Dessalines demanded that all blacks work either as soldiers to defend the nation or as laborers on the plantations to raise crops and help sustain the nation. His forces were strict in enforcing this, to the extent that some blacks felt as if they were again enslaved.\n\nDessalines believed in the tight regulation of foreign trade, which was essential for Haiti's sugar and coffee based export economy. Like Toussaint L'Ouverture, Dessalines encouraged merchants from Britain and the United States over those from France. For his administration, Dessalines needed literate and educated officials and managers. He placed in these positions well-educated Haitians, who were disproportionately from the mulatto elite, as \"gens de couleur\" were most likely to have been educated.\n\nJean-Jacques Dessalines is known for the ordering of the execution of all French people on the island. This systematic genocide is known as the 1804 Haiti massacre. The massacre, which took place in the entire territory of Haiti, was carried out from early February 1804 until 22 April 1804, and resulted in the deaths of between 3,000 and 5,000 people of all ages and genders.\n\nDisaffected members of Dessalines' administration, including Alexandre Pétion and Henri Christophe, began a conspiracy to overthrow the Emperor. Dessalines was assassinated north of the capital city, Port-au-Prince, at Pont Larnage (now known as Pont-Rouge), on 17 October 1806, on his way to fight the rebels. The exact circumstances of his death are uncertain. Some historians claim that he was actually killed at Pétion's house at Rue l'Enterrement, after a meeting to negotiate the power and the future of the young nation. Some reports say that he was arrested and was dealt a deadly blow to the head. Another report says he was ambushed and killed at first fire.\n\nYet another account recalls a brutal attack on him by his men. It says he was shot at twice and hit once. Then, his head was split open by a sabre's blow and he was finally stabbed three times with a dagger, with the crowd shouting \"the tyrant is killed\". The mob desecrated and disfigured his remains, which were abandoned on Government Square. There was a lot of resistance to providing him with a proper burial; but, Défilée (Dédée Bazile), a black woman from a humble background, took the mutilated body of the Emperor and buried it. A monument at the northern entrance of the Haitian capital marks the place where the Emperor was killed.\n\nIn 1804, the city of Marchand was renamed to Dessalines in his honor.\n\nShortly after his death, many men on the island changed their last names from their slave names to \"Jean-Jacques\" in honor of Dessalines. Some historians believe these men were soldiers of Dessalines.\n\nFor the remainder of the 19th century, Dessalines was generally reviled by generations of Haitians for his autocratic ways. However, by the beginning of the 20th century, Dessalines began to be reassessed as an icon of Haitian nationalism. The national anthem of Haiti, \"La Dessalinienne\", written in 1903, is named in his honor.\n\nThe Haitian humanitarian organization Fondasyon Félicité (FF), established in 1999 by Bayyinah Bello, is named after Dessalines' spouse Marie-Claire Heureuse Félicité.\n\nDessalines was a great-grandfather of Cincinnatus Leconte, who served as President of Haiti from 1911 to 1912.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49375341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49375341", "title": "John Ashton (composer)", "text": "John Ashton (composer)\n\nJohn Ashton (1830 – 25 December 1896) was a Welsh musician from Montgomeryshire, who had worked as a policeman and shoemaker. He wrote a number of songs and hymns, including \"Trefeglwys\", written in 1857. His songs were published in \"Miwsig y Miloedd\", \"Caniadau y Cysegr a'r Teulu,\" \"Llyfr Tonau Cynulleidfaol\", and \"Cerddor yr Ysgol Sabothol.\" He died in New Zealand, having emigrated there in 1874.\n"}
{"id": "54294271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54294271", "title": "John Davies (missionary)", "text": "John Davies (missionary)\n\nJohn Davies (11 July 1772 – 19 August 1855) was a Welsh missionary and school teacher. His family were from the Llanfihangel-yng-Ngwynfa area of Montgomeryshire. Having received some education in one of \"Madam\" Bridget Bevan's schools, he decided to set up his own school at Llanrhaeadr-ym-Mochnant. Whilst attending a local Methodist church he heard of missionary positions in Tahiti, and volunteered to join the work. He and his wife left for the island in May 1800, and remained there for the next 55 years. Davies became superintendent of a school at Papara, established by the London Missionary Society. He also encouraged the setting up of mission schools in Fiji.\n\nHis published written works include a dictionary and grammar of the Tahitian language, a translation of substantial portions of the New Testament and Psalms, Brown's Catechism, the Westminster Catechism, the Pilgrim's Progress, and a number of smaller works. He also wrote a \"History of the Tahitian Mission, 1799-1830\" (Cambridge, 1962).\n"}
{"id": "22787559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22787559", "title": "Karl Andersson (sprint canoeist)", "text": "Karl Andersson (sprint canoeist)\n\nKarl Andersson is a Swedish sprint canoeist who competed in the early 1950s. He won a gold medal in the K-4 10000 m event at the 1950 ICF Canoe Sprint World Championships in Copenhagen.\n\n"}
{"id": "23018920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23018920", "title": "Kevin Perkins", "text": "Kevin Perkins\n\nKevin Perkins is the executive director of the Canadian not-for-profit organization Farm Radio International since May 2006. He is also the founder and president of CAP Aids, a Canadian organization based in Toronto, Ontario which fights AIDS/HIV.\n\n"}
{"id": "32759363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32759363", "title": "L. E. Dawson", "text": "L. E. Dawson\n\nLionel Edward Dawson (1887 – 1976) was a philatelist who won the Crawford Medal from the Royal Philatelic Society London for his work on \"The One Anna and Two Annas Postage Stamps of India, 1854-55\". He was an expert on the stamps of India and the Feudatory States and signed the Roll of Distinguished Philatelists in 1961.\n\nDawson was the Editor of the \"Philatelic Journal of India\" between 1934 and 1944. In 1954 he delivered a paper to \"The Royal\" on \"The Locally Printed Stamps of Tibet, 1912-1953\" which was subsequently printed in The London Philatelist and in 1955 he won the Tilleard Medal from the society for his display of Indian Feudatory States.\n\nA photograph of L.E. Dawson in a tweed jacket appears on page 2 in the catalog of his collection sold by Robson Lowe on 9 November 1966.\n\n"}
{"id": "852564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=852564", "title": "List of monarchs of Mercia", "text": "List of monarchs of Mercia\n\nThe Kingdom of Mercia was a state in the English Midlands from the 6th century to the 10th century. For some two hundred years from the mid-7th century onwards it was the dominant member of the Heptarchy and consequently the most powerful of the Anglo-Saxon kingdoms. During this period its rulers became the first English monarchs to assume such wide-ranging titles as \"King of Britain\" and \"King of the English\".\n\nSpellings varied widely in this period, even within a single document, and a number of variants exist for the names given below. For example, the sound \"th\" was usually represented with the Old English letters ð or þ.\n\nFor the Continental predecessors of the Mercians in Angeln, see List of kings of the Angles. For their successors see List of English monarchs.\n\nThe traditional rulers of Mercia were known as the Iclingas, descendants of the kings of the Angles. When the Iclingas became extinct in the male line, a number of other families, labelled B, C and W by historians, competed for the throne.\n\nAll the following are kings, unless specified. Those in \"italics\" are probably legendary, are of dubious authenticity, or may not have reigned.\n\nThe chief magnate of Mercia as an English province held the title of ealdorman until 1023/32, and earl thereafter. Both offices were royal appointments, but the latter in effect became hereditary.\n\nThe title Earl of March (etymologically identical to 'Earl of Mercia') was created in the western Midlands for Roger Mortimer in 1328. It has fallen extinct, and been recreated, three times since then, and exists today as a subsidiary title of the Duke of Richmond and Lennox.\n"}
{"id": "9056396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9056396", "title": "Louis W. Menk", "text": "Louis W. Menk\n\nLouis Wilson Menk (born April 8, 1918 in Englewood, Colorado, died November 27, 1999) was an American railway worker and executive. He served as the last president of Northern Pacific Railway 1966-1970, before the railroad was merged into Burlington Northern Railroad,and the first president and second chairman of Burlington Northern. Menk was also selected as \"Modern Railroads\" (now Railway Age) \"Man of the Year\" for 1967, an award that has continued annually and is now known as Railroader of the Year.\n\nMenk was the son of Louis Albert and Daisy Deane (Frantz) Menk. He married Martha Jane Swan on May 30, 1942. They had two children, David Louis and Barbara Ann.\n\nMenk attended Denver University and Harvard Business School (Advanced Management Program). He received honorary LL.D. degrees from Northwestern University (1959), Drury College (1965), Denver University (1966), and Monmouth College.\n\n\nChicago, Burlington and Quincy; Colorado and Southern; Northern Pacific Transport; Cuyuna Realty; Monad Company; Association of American Railroads; First National Bank of Chicago; American Investment Company; Servomation Corporation; First Trust of St. Paul; Hunt Foods; General Mills; Brown Shoe Company.\n\nClubs: St. Paul; Metro; Improvement Commission Greater St. Paul United Fund; Upper Midwest Development Council; St. Paul Area Chamber of Commerce; Government Council on Executive Reorganization; Advisory Committee, Minnesota Department of Economic Development; Transportation Center, Northwestern University; Chicago Area Council; Boy Scouts of America; Indianhead Committee; Summit School; Minnesota Club of St. Paul; St. Paul Athletic Club; Somerset Country Club; Transportation Club of St. Paul; Traffic Club of Minnesota; Traffic Club of Chicago; Union League of Chicago; Glen View Country Club; Chicago Club; Noonday; Bellerive Country Club; Masons; Presbyterian.\n\nLouis Menk papers, 1953-1981.\n\nCorrespondence, speeches, scrapbooks, memorabilia, printed matter, and related papers documenting the career of this railroad executive who was president of the St. Louis-San Francisco Railway Company (1962–1965), the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railroad Company (1965–1966), the Northern Pacific Railway Company (1966–1970), and Burlington Northern Inc. (1970–1978, and chairman 1978-1981). He was also one of the principal architects of the 1970 merger that created the Burlington Northern; . (18 boxes and 4 microfilm reels).\n\n"}
{"id": "4968923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4968923", "title": "Ludvík Vaculík", "text": "Ludvík Vaculík\n\nLudvík Vaculík (23 July 1926 – 6 June 2015) was a Czech writer and journalist. He was born in Brumov, Moravian Wallachia. A prominent samizdat writer, he was best known as the author of the \"Two Thousand Words\" manifesto of June 1968.\n\nPresident of Czechoslovakia and Communist Party leader Antonín Novotný and his fellow conservatives had begun taking a more repressive approach toward intellectuals and writers after the Six-Day War of June 1967. The following month, Vaculík, then still a member of the Communist Party, attended the Fourth Congress of the Union of Writers. Others in attendance included communists Pavel Kohout, Ivan Klíma, and Milan Kundera, as well as non-Party member Václav Havel. Vaculík made an inflammatory speech in which he rejected the leading role of the party as unnecessary and criticized it for its restrictive cultural policies and failure to address social issues. Havel recalled the mixed response of the fellow writers to Vaculík's remarks: on the one hand, they were \"delighted that someone had spoken the truth… but [their] delight was tempered by doubts about whether direct confrontation on the political level would lead anywhere, and by fears that it could stimulate a counterattack by the power center.\" Novotný and his supporters did indeed try to bring the writers' union under their control after the congress, but failed. Vaculík's and other writers' speeches at the conference, with their anti-Novotný sentiments, increased the gap between the conservative Novotný supporters and more moderate members of the party leadership, a division that would contribute to Novotný's eventual fall.\n\nVaculík was among the most progressive members of the Communist Party and thereby more radical than Alexander Dubček, who had become Party leader in January 1968. Hence, Vaculík and others generally felt that the reforms of the April Action Programme were the minimum necessary and that they should be quickly and firmly enforced. In hopes of influencing voters in upcoming party congress elections, Vaculík released the manifesto \"Two Thousand Words to Workers, Farmers, Scientists, Artists, and Everyone\" in several major Prague newspapers, complete with signatures of other public figures. The date was 27 June 1968, the day after preliminary censorship was abolished by the national assembly.\n\nIn the \"Two Thousand Words,\" Vaculík asked that the public \"demand the resignation of people who have misused their power\" by criticism, demonstrations, and strikes. He also expressed concern over the \"recent apprehension\" regarding the reforms due to \"the possibility that foreign forces\"—those of the Warsaw Treaty Organization—\"may intervene in Czechoslovakia's internal development.\" If this were to happen, Vaculík argued:\n\n…the only thing we can do is to hold our own and not indulge in any provocation. We can assure our government—with weapons if need be—as long as it does what we give it a mandate to do.\n\nDespite the overall moderate tone and Marxist–Leninist orthodoxy, the \"Two Thousand Words\" called for action on the part of the public in case of military intervention and therefore denied the leading role of the party, as Vaculík's 1967 speech had. It was popular throughout Czechoslovakia with both intellectuals and workers, and its popularity only increased after the party officially condemned it. It also significantly increased the concerns of the Soviet Union. Following the \"Two Thousand Words,\" Leonid Brezhnev's party leadership, seeing a situation similar to that in 1956 Hungary developing, used the term \"counterrevolution\" to describe the Prague Spring for the first time. If a counterrevolution was taking place (and the Soviet Union was increasingly disposed to categorising the events in Czechoslovakia as such, as other radicals continued to act and Dubček failed to gain their confidence), socialism as the Soviet Union saw it was threatened and invasion by Warsaw Treaty Organisation troops, as occurred 20–21 August 1968, was deemed justified. This policy of the acceptability of using force wherever socialism was thought to be threatened would become known as the Brezhnev Doctrine, and Vaculík's \"Two Thousand Words\" was an integral step toward this early application of it.\n\nAfter Gustáv Husák came to power in 1969 and censorship increased, Vaculík (now no longer a party member) was part of the circle of dissident writers in Czechoslovakia. In 1973, he started \"Edice Petlice\" (\"Edition Padlock\"), a samizdat series that he ran until 1979. Others followed with their own series, despite harassment from the party's secret police. Some samizdat authors, including Vaculík, were also published in the west.\n\nThe core of the samizdat authors eventually developed and signed the foundation document of Charter 77; Vaculík attended the second of the planning meetings in December 1976. On 6 January 1977, Vaculík, along with Havel and Pavel Landovský, an actor, attempted to take a copy of the charter to the post office to mail to the Czechoslovak government. Their car was pulled over by the Party secret police, and all three were taken in for interrogation. Other signatories were subsequently subjected to interrogations and searches of their homes, as well.\n\nIn late 1978, however, Vaculík published the article \"Remarks on Courage\", a piece that helped set the tone for criticism of charterists. Of the original signatories, most were from the intelligentsia in Prague and Brno, and Vaculík and others warned against them becoming so isolated that average citizens could no longer relate to Charter 77. His criticism worked against a mythologisation of the Charter and ensured a continued discussion of its position and role.\n\nVaculík continued to write; the official ban on his works was lifted in late 1989. He had a weekly column in \"Lidové noviny\" that featured feuilletons addressing various Czech political and cultural issues, just as much of his underground work during Communism had.\n\nVaculík died of natural causes at the age of 88 on 6 June 2015 in Prague.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7567080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7567080", "title": "Martin Luther", "text": "Martin Luther\n\nMartin Luther, (; ; 10 November 1483 – 18 February 1546) was a German professor of theology, composer, priest, monk, and a seminal figure in the Protestant Reformation.\n\nLuther came to reject several teachings and practices of the Roman Catholic Church. He strongly disputed the Catholic view on indulgences. Luther proposed an academic discussion of the practice and efficacy of indulgences in his \"Ninety-five Theses\" of 1517. His refusal to renounce all of his writings at the demand of Pope Leo X in 1520 and the Holy Roman Emperor Charles V at the Diet of Worms in 1521 resulted in his excommunication by the Pope and condemnation as an outlaw by the Holy Roman Emperor.\n\nLuther taught that salvation and, consequently, eternal life are not earned by good deeds but are received only as the free gift of God's grace through the believer's faith in Jesus Christ as redeemer from sin. His theology challenged the authority and office of the Pope by teaching that the Bible is the only source of divinely revealed knowledge from God and opposed sacerdotalism by considering all baptized Christians to be a holy priesthood. Those who identify with these, and all of Luther's wider teachings, are called Lutherans, though Luther insisted on \"Christian\" or \"Evangelical\" (German: \"evangelisch\") as the only acceptable names for individuals who professed Christ.\n\nHis translation of the Bible into the German vernacular (instead of Latin) made it more accessible to the laity, an event that had a tremendous impact on both the church and German culture. It fostered the development of a standard version of the German language, added several principles to the art of translation, and influenced the writing of an English translation, the Tyndale Bible. His hymns influenced the development of singing in Protestant churches. His marriage to Katharina von Bora, a former nun, set a model for the practice of clerical marriage, allowing Protestant clergy to marry.\n\nIn two of his later works, Luther expressed antagonistic views towards Jews. His rhetoric was not directed at Jews alone, but also towards Roman Catholics (whom Protestants labeled \"Papists\"), Anabaptists, and nontrinitarian Christians. Martin Luther died in 1546, with his decree of excommunication by Pope Leo X still effective. On his deathbed, Luther was asked: \"Are you ready to die trusting in your Lord Jesus Christ and to confess the doctrine which you have taught in his name?\" He answered \"Yes\", before taking his final breath.\n\nMartin Luther was born to Hans Luder (or Ludher, later Luther) and his wife Margarethe (née Lindemann) on 10 November 1483 in Eisleben, County of Mansfeld in the Holy Roman Empire. Luther was baptized the next morning on the feast day of St. Martin of Tours. His family moved to Mansfeld in 1484, where his father was a leaseholder of copper mines and smelters and served as one of four citizen representatives on the local council; in 1492 he was elected as a town councilor. The religious scholar Martin Marty describes Luther's mother as a hard-working woman of \"trading-class stock and middling means\" and notes that Luther's enemies later wrongly described her as a whore and bath attendant.\n\nHe had several brothers and sisters, and is known to have been close to one of them, Jacob.\nHans Luther was ambitious for himself and his family, and he was determined to see Martin, his eldest son, become a lawyer. He sent Martin to Latin schools in Mansfeld, then Magdeburg in 1497, where he attended a school operated by a lay group called the Brethren of the Common Life, and Eisenach in 1498. The three schools focused on the so-called \"trivium\": grammar, rhetoric, and logic. Luther later compared his education there to purgatory and hell.\n\nIn 1501, at the age of 17, he entered the University of Erfurt, which he later described as a beerhouse and whorehouse. He was made to wake at four every morning for what has been described as \"a day of rote learning and often wearying spiritual exercises.\" He received his master's degree in 1505.\n\nIn accordance with his father's wishes, he enrolled in law but dropped out almost immediately, believing that law represented uncertainty. Luther sought assurances about life and was drawn to theology and philosophy, expressing particular interest in Aristotle, William of Ockham, and Gabriel Biel. He was deeply influenced by two tutors, Bartholomaeus Arnoldi von Usingen and Jodocus Trutfetter, who taught him to be suspicious of even the greatest thinkers and to test everything himself by experience.\n\nPhilosophy proved to be unsatisfying, offering assurance about the use of reason but none about loving God, which to Luther was more important. Reason could not lead men to God, he felt, and he thereafter developed a love-hate relationship with Aristotle over the latter's emphasis on reason. For Luther, reason could be used to question men and institutions, but not God. Human beings could learn about God only through divine revelation, he believed, and Scripture therefore became increasingly important to him.\n\nOn 2 July 1505, while returning to university on horseback after a trip home, a lightning bolt struck near Luther during a thunderstorm. Later telling his father he was terrified of death and divine judgment, he cried out, \"Help! Saint Anna, I will become a monk!\" He came to view his cry for help as a vow he could never break. He left university, sold his books, and entered St. Augustine's Monastery in Erfurt on 17 July 1505. One friend blamed the decision on Luther's sadness over the deaths of two friends. Luther himself seemed saddened by the move. Those who attended a farewell supper walked him to the door of the Black Cloister. \"This day you see me, and then, not ever again,\" he said. His father was furious over what he saw as a waste of Luther's education.\n\nLuther dedicated himself to the Augustinian order, devoting himself to fasting, long hours in prayer, pilgrimage, and frequent confession. Luther described this period of his life as one of deep spiritual despair. He said, \"I lost touch with Christ the Savior and Comforter, and made of him the jailer and hangman of my poor soul.\" Johann von Staupitz, his superior, pointed Luther's mind away from continual reflection upon his sins toward the merits of Christ. He taught that true repentance does not involve self-inflicted penances and punishments but rather a change of heart.\n\nOn 3 April 1507, Jerome Schultz (lat. Hieronymus Scultetus), the Bishop of Brandenburg, ordained Luther in Erfurt Cathedral. In 1508, von Staupitz, first dean of the newly founded University of Wittenberg, sent for Luther, to teach theology. He received a bachelor's degree in Biblical studies on 9 March 1508, and another bachelor's degree in the \"Sentences\" by Peter Lombard in 1509.\n\nOn 19 October 1512, he was awarded his Doctor of Theology and, on 21 October 1512, was received into the senate of the theological faculty of the University of Wittenberg, having succeeded Staupitz as chair of theology. He spent the rest of his career in this position at the University of Wittenberg.\n\nHe was made provincial vicar of Saxony and Thuringia by his religious order in 1515. This meant he was to visit and oversee each of eleven monasteries in his province.\n\nIn 1516, Johann Tetzel, a Dominican friar and papal commissioner for indulgences, was sent to Germany by the Roman Catholic Church to sell indulgences to raise money in order to rebuild St. Peter's Basilica in Rome. Tetzel's experiences as a preacher of indulgences, especially between 1503 and 1510, led to his appointment as general commissioner by Albrecht von Brandenburg, Archbishop of Mainz, who, deeply in debt to pay for a large accumulation of benefices, had to contribute a considerable sum toward the rebuilding of St. Peter's Basilica in Rome. Albrecht obtained permission from Pope Leo X to conduct the sale of a special plenary indulgence (i.e., remission of the temporal punishment of sin), half of the proceeds of which Albrecht was to claim to pay the fees of his benefices.\n\nOn 31 October 1517, Luther wrote to his bishop, Albrecht von Brandenburg, protesting the sale of indulgences. He enclosed in his letter a copy of his \"Disputation of Martin Luther on the Power and Efficacy of Indulgences\", which came to be known as the \"Ninety-five Theses\". Hans Hillerbrand writes that Luther had no intention of confronting the church, but saw his disputation as a scholarly objection to church practices, and the tone of the writing is accordingly \"searching, rather than doctrinaire.\" Hillerbrand writes that there is nevertheless an undercurrent of challenge in several of the theses, particularly in Thesis 86, which asks: \"Why does the pope, whose wealth today is greater than the wealth of the richest Crassus, build the basilica of St. Peter with the money of poor believers rather than with his own money?\"\nLuther objected to a saying attributed to Johann Tetzel that \"As soon as the coin in the coffer rings, the soul from purgatory (also attested as 'into heaven') springs.\" He insisted that, since forgiveness was God's alone to grant, those who claimed that indulgences absolved buyers from all punishments and granted them salvation were in error. Christians, he said, must not slacken in following Christ on account of such false assurances.\n\nAccording to one account, Luther nailed his \"Ninety-five Theses\" to the door of All Saints' Church in Wittenberg on 31 October 1517. Scholars Walter Krämer, Götz Trenkler, Gerhard Ritter, and Gerhard Prause contend that the story of the posting on the door, even though it has settled as one of the pillars of history, has little foundation in truth. The story is based on comments made by Luther's collaborator Philipp Melanchthon, though it is thought that he was not in Wittenberg at the time.\n\nThe Latin \"Theses\" were printed in several locations in Germany in 1517. In January 1518 friends of Luther translated the \"Ninety-five Theses\" from Latin into German. Within two weeks, copies of the theses had spread throughout Germany; within two months, they had spread throughout Europe.\n\nLuther's writings circulated widely, reaching France, England, and Italy as early as 1519. Students thronged to Wittenberg to hear Luther speak. He published a short commentary on Galatians and his \"Work on the Psalms\". This early part of Luther's career was one of his most creative and productive. Three of his best-known works were published in 1520: \"To the Christian Nobility of the German Nation\", \"On the Babylonian Captivity of the Church\", and \"On the Freedom of a Christian\".\n\nFrom 1510 to 1520, Luther lectured on the Psalms, and on the books of Hebrews, Romans, and Galatians. As he studied these portions of the Bible, he came to view the use of terms such as penance and righteousness by the Catholic Church in new ways. He became convinced that the church was corrupt in its ways and had lost sight of what he saw as several of the central truths of Christianity. The most important for Luther was the doctrine of justification—God's act of declaring a sinner righteous—by faith alone through God's grace. He began to teach that salvation or redemption is a gift of God's grace, attainable only through faith in Jesus as the Messiah. \"This one and firm rock, which we call the doctrine of justification\", he wrote, \"is the chief article of the whole Christian doctrine, which comprehends the understanding of all godliness.\"\n\nLuther came to understand justification as entirely the work of God. This teaching by Luther was clearly expressed in his 1525 publication \"On the Bondage of the Will\", which was written in response to \"On Free Will\" by Desiderius Erasmus (1524). Luther based his position on predestination on St. Paul's epistle to the . Against the teaching of his day that the righteous acts of believers are performed in \"cooperation\" with God, Luther wrote that Christians receive such righteousness entirely from outside themselves; that righteousness not only comes from Christ but actually \"is\" the righteousness of Christ, imputed to Christians (rather than infused into them) through faith.\n\n\"That is why faith alone makes someone just and fulfills the law,\" he wrote. \"Faith is that which brings the Holy Spirit through the merits of Christ.\" Faith, for Luther, was a gift from God; the experience of being justified by faith was \"as though I had been born again.\" His entry into Paradise, no less, was a discovery about \"the righteousness of God\"—a discovery that \"the just person\" of whom the Bible speaks (as in Romans 1:17) lives by faith. He explained his concept of \"justification\" in the Smalcald Articles:\nThe first and chief article is this: Jesus Christ, our God and Lord, died for our sins and was raised again for our justification (Romans 3:24–25). He alone is the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world (John 1:29), and God has laid on Him the iniquity of us all (Isaiah 53:6). All have sinned and are justified freely, without their own works and merits, by His grace, through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, in His blood (Romans 3:23–25). This is necessary to believe. This cannot be otherwise acquired or grasped by any work, law or merit. Therefore, it is clear and certain that this faith alone justifies us ... Nothing of this article can be yielded or surrendered, even though heaven and earth and everything else falls (Mark 13:31).\nLuther's rediscovery of \"Christ and His salvation\" was the first of two points that became the foundation for the Reformation. His railing against the sale of indulgences was based on it.\n\nArchbishop Albrecht of Mainz and Magdeburg did not reply to Luther's letter containing the \"Ninety-five Theses\". He had the theses checked for heresy and in December 1517 forwarded them to Rome. He needed the revenue from the indulgences to pay off a papal dispensation for his tenure of more than one bishopric. As Luther later noted, \"the pope had a finger in the pie as well, because one half was to go to the building of St Peter's Church in Rome\".\n\nPope Leo X was used to reformers and heretics, and he responded slowly, \"with great care as is proper.\" Over the next three years he deployed a series of papal theologians and envoys against Luther, which served only to harden the reformer's anti-papal theology. First, the Dominican theologian Sylvester Mazzolini drafted a heresy case against Luther, whom Leo then summoned to Rome. The Elector Frederick persuaded the pope to have Luther examined at Augsburg, where the Imperial Diet was held.\n\nThere, over a three-day period in October 1518, Luther defended himself under questioning by papal legate Cardinal Cajetan. The Pope's right to issue indulgences was at the centre of the dispute between the two men. The hearings degenerated into a shouting match. More than writing his theses, Luther's confrontation with the church cast him as an enemy of the pope. Cajetan's original instructions had been to arrest Luther if he failed to recant, but the legate desisted from doing so. With help from the Carmelite monk Christoph Langenmantel, Luther slipped out of the city at night, unbeknownst to Cajetan.\n\nIn January 1519, at Altenburg in Saxony, the papal \"nuncio\" Karl von Miltitz adopted a more conciliatory approach. Luther made certain concessions to the Saxon, who was a relative of the Elector, and promised to remain silent if his opponents did. The theologian Johann Eck, however, was determined to expose Luther's doctrine in a public forum. In June and July 1519, he staged a disputation with Luther's colleague Andreas Karlstadt at Leipzig and invited Luther to speak.\n\nLuther's boldest assertion in the debate was that Matthew 16:18 does not confer on popes the exclusive right to interpret scripture, and that therefore neither popes nor church councils were infallible. For this, Eck branded Luther a new Jan Hus, referring to the Czech reformer and heretic burned at the stake in 1415. From that moment, he devoted himself to Luther's defeat.\n\nOn 15 June 1520, the Pope warned Luther with the papal bull (edict) \"Exsurge Domine\" that he risked excommunication unless he recanted 41 sentences drawn from his writings, including the \"Ninety-five Theses\", within 60 days. That autumn, Johann Eck proclaimed the bull in Meissen and other towns. Karl von Miltitz, a papal nuncio, attempted to broker a solution, but Luther, who had sent the Pope a copy of \"On the Freedom of a Christian\" in October, publicly set fire to the bull and decretals at Wittenberg on 10 December 1520, an act he defended in \"Why the Pope and his Recent Book are Burned\" and \"Assertions Concerning All Articles\". As a consequence, Luther was excommunicated by Pope on 3 January 1521, in the bull \"Decet Romanum Pontificem\".\n\nThe enforcement of the ban on the \"Ninety-five Theses\" fell to the secular authorities. On 18 April 1521, Luther appeared as ordered before the Diet of Worms. This was a general assembly of the estates of the Holy Roman Empire that took place in Worms, a town on the Rhine. It was conducted from 28 January to 25 May 1521, with Emperor Charles V presiding. Prince Frederick III, Elector of Saxony, obtained a safe conduct for Luther to and from the meeting.\n\nJohann Eck, speaking on behalf of the Empire as assistant of the Archbishop of Trier, presented Luther with copies of his writings laid out on a table and asked him if the books were his, and whether he stood by their contents. Luther confirmed he was their author, but requested time to think about the answer to the second question. He prayed, consulted friends, and gave his response the next day:\nUnless I am convinced by the testimony of the Scriptures or by clear reason (for I do not trust either in the pope or in councils alone, since it is well known that they have often erred and contradicted themselves), I am bound by the Scriptures I have quoted and my conscience is captive to the Word of God. I cannot and will not recant anything, since it is neither safe nor right to go against conscience. May God help me. Amen.\nAt the end of this speech, Luther raised his arm \"in the traditional salute of a knight winning a bout.\" Michael Mullett considers this speech as a \"world classic of epoch-making oratory.\"\n\nEck informed Luther that he was acting like a heretic:\n\n\"'Martin,' said he, 'there is no one of the heresies which have torn the bosom of the church, which has not derived its origin from the various interpretation of the Scripture. The Bible itself is the arsenal whence each innovator has drawn his deceptive arguments. It was with Biblical texts that Pelagius and Arius maintained their doctrines. Arius, for instance, found the negation of the eternity of the Word—an eternity which you admit, in this verse of the New Testament—\"Joseph knew not his wife till she had brought forth her first-born son\"; and he said, in the same way that you say, that this passage enchained him. When the fathers of the Council of Constance condemned this proposition of John Huss—\"The church of Jesus Christ is only the community of the elect\", they condemned an error; for the church, like a good mother, embraces within her arms all who bear the name of Christian, all who are called to enjoy the celestial beatitude.'\"\nLuther refused to recant his writings. He is sometimes also quoted as saying: \"Here I stand. I can do no other\". Recent scholars consider the evidence for these words to be unreliable, since they were inserted before \"May God help me\" only in later versions of the speech and not recorded in witness accounts of the proceedings. However, Mullett suggests that given his nature, \"we are free to believe that Luther would tend to select the more dramatic form of words.\"\n\nOver the next five days, private conferences were held to determine Luther's fate. The Emperor presented the final draft of the Edict of Worms on 25 May 1521, declaring Luther an outlaw, banning his literature, and requiring his arrest: \"We want him to be apprehended and punished as a notorious heretic.\" It also made it a crime for anyone in Germany to give Luther food or shelter. It permitted anyone to kill Luther without legal consequence.\n\nLuther's disappearance during his return to Wittenberg was planned. had him intercepted on his way home in the forest near Wittenberg by masked horsemen impersonating highway robbers. They escorted Luther to the security of the Wartburg Castle at Eisenach. During his stay at Wartburg, which he referred to as \"my Patmos\", Luther translated the New Testament from Greek into German and poured out doctrinal and polemical writings. These included a renewed attack on Archbishop Albrecht of Mainz, whom he shamed into halting the sale of indulgences in his episcopates, and a \"Refutation of the Argument of Latomus,\" in which he expounded the principle of justification to Jacobus Latomus, an orthodox theologian from Louvain.\n\nIn this work, one of his most emphatic statements on faith, he argued that every good work designed to attract God's favor is a sin. All humans are sinners by nature, he explained, and God's grace (which cannot be earned) alone can make them just. On 1 August 1521, Luther wrote to Melanchthon on the same theme: \"Be a sinner, and let your sins be strong, but let your trust in Christ be stronger, and rejoice in Christ who is the victor over sin, death, and the world. We will commit sins while we are here, for this life is not a place where justice resides.\"\n\nIn the summer of 1521, Luther widened his target from individual pieties like indulgences and pilgrimages to doctrines at the heart of Church practice. In \"On the Abrogation of the Private Mass\", he condemned as idolatry the idea that the mass is a sacrifice, asserting instead that it is a gift, to be received with thanksgiving by the whole congregation. His essay \"On Confession, Whether the Pope has the Power to Require It\" rejected compulsory confession and encouraged private confession and absolution, since \"every Christian is a confessor.\" In November, Luther wrote \"The Judgement of Martin Luther on Monastic Vows\". He assured monks and nuns that they could break their vows without sin, because vows were an illegitimate and vain attempt to win salvation.\n\nIn 1521 Luther dealt largely with prophecy, in which he broadened the foundations of the Reformation, placing them on prophetic faith. His main interest was centered on the prophecy of the Little Horn in Daniel 8:9–12, 23–25. The antichrist of 2 Thessalonians 2 was identified as the power of the Papacy. So too was the Little Horn of Daniel 7, coming up among the divisions of Rome, explicitly applied.\n\nLuther made his pronouncements from Wartburg in the context of rapid developments at Wittenberg, of which he was kept fully informed. Andreas Karlstadt, supported by the ex-Augustinian Gabriel Zwilling, embarked on a radical programme of reform there in June 1521, exceeding anything envisaged by Luther. The reforms provoked disturbances, including a revolt by the Augustinian friars against their prior, the smashing of statues and images in churches, and denunciations of the magistracy. After secretly visiting Wittenberg in early December 1521, Luther wrote \"A Sincere Admonition by Martin Luther to All Christians to Guard Against Insurrection and Rebellion\". Wittenberg became even more volatile after Christmas when a band of visionary zealots, the so-called Zwickau prophets, arrived, preaching revolutionary doctrines such as the equality of man, adult baptism, and Christ's imminent return. When the town council asked Luther to return, he decided it was his duty to act.\n\nLuther secretly returned to Wittenberg on 6 March 1522. He wrote to the Elector: \"During my absence, Satan has entered my sheepfold, and committed ravages which I cannot repair by writing, but only by my personal presence and living word.\" For eight days in Lent, beginning on \"Invocavit\" Sunday, 9 March, Luther preached eight sermons, which became known as the \"Invocavit Sermons\". In these sermons, he hammered home the primacy of core Christian values such as love, patience, charity, and freedom, and reminded the citizens to trust God's word rather than violence to bring about necessary change.\n\nDo you know what the Devil thinks when he sees men use violence to propagate the gospel? He sits with folded arms behind the fire of hell, and says with malignant looks and frightful grin: \"Ah, how wise these madmen are to play my game! Let them go on; I shall reap the benefit. I delight in it.\" But when he sees the Word running and contending alone on the battle-field, then he shudders and shakes for fear.\n\nThe effect of Luther's intervention was immediate. After the sixth sermon, the Wittenberg jurist Jerome Schurf wrote to the elector: \"Oh, what joy has Dr. Martin's return spread among us! His words, through divine mercy, are bringing back every day misguided people into the way of the truth.\"\n\nLuther next set about reversing or modifying the new church practices. By working alongside the authorities to restore public order, he signalled his reinvention as a conservative force within the Reformation. After banishing the Zwickau prophets, he now faced a battle against not only the established Church but also the radical reformers who threatened the new order by fomenting social unrest and violence.\nDespite his victory in Wittenberg, Luther was unable to stifle radicalism further afield. Preachers such as Zwickau prophet Nicholas Storch and Thomas Müntzer found support amongst poorer townspeople and peasants between 1521 and 1525. There had been revolts by the peasantry on a smaller scale since the 15th century. Luther's pamphlets against the Church and the hierarchy, often worded with \"liberal\" phraseology, now led many peasants to believe he would support an attack on the upper classes in general. Revolts broke out in Franconia, Swabia, and Thuringia in 1524, even drawing support from disaffected nobles, many of whom were in debt. Gaining momentum under the leadership of radicals such as Müntzer in Thuringia, and Hipler and Lotzer in the south-west, the revolts turned into war.\n\nLuther sympathised with some of the peasants' grievances, as he showed in his response to the Twelve Articles in May 1525, but he reminded the aggrieved to obey the temporal authorities. During a tour of Thuringia, he became enraged at the widespread burning of convents, monasteries, bishops' palaces, and libraries. In \"Against the Murderous, Thieving Hordes of Peasants\", written on his return to Wittenberg, he gave his interpretation of the Gospel teaching on wealth, condemned the violence as the devil's work, and called for the nobles to put down the rebels like mad dogs:\nTherefore let everyone who can, smite, slay, and stab, secretly or openly, remembering that nothing can be more poisonous, hurtful, or devilish than a rebel ... For baptism does not make men free in body and property, but in soul; and the gospel does not make goods common, except in the case of those who, of their own free will, do what the apostles and disciples did in Acts 4 [:32–37]. They did not demand, as do our insane peasants in their raging, that the goods of others—of Pilate and Herod—should be common, but only their own goods. Our peasants, however, want to make the goods of other men common, and keep their own for themselves. Fine Christians they are! I think there is not a devil left in hell; they have all gone into the peasants. Their raving has gone beyond all measure.\nLuther justified his opposition to the rebels on three grounds. First, in choosing violence over lawful submission to the secular government, they were ignoring Christ's counsel to \"Render unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's\"; St. Paul had written in his epistle to the that all authorities are appointed by God and therefore should not be resisted. This reference from the Bible forms the foundation for the doctrine known as the divine right of kings, or, in the German case, the divine right of the princes. Second, the violent actions of rebelling, robbing, and plundering placed the peasants \"outside the law of God and Empire\", so they deserved \"death in body and soul, if only as highwaymen and murderers.\" Lastly, Luther charged the rebels with blasphemy for calling themselves \"Christian brethren\" and committing their sinful acts under the banner of the Gospel.\n\nWithout Luther's backing for the uprising, many rebels laid down their weapons; others felt betrayed. Their defeat by the Swabian League at the Battle of Frankenhausen on 15 May 1525, followed by Müntzer's execution, brought the revolutionary stage of the Reformation to a close. Thereafter, radicalism found a refuge in the Anabaptist movement and other religious movements, while Luther's Reformation flourished under the wing of the secular powers. In 1526 Luther wrote: “I, Martin Luther, have during the rebellion slain all the peasants, for it was I who ordered them to be struck dead.”\n\nMartin Luther married Katharina von Bora, one of 12 nuns he had helped escape from the Nimbschen Cistercian convent in April 1523, when he arranged for them to be smuggled out in herring barrels. \"Suddenly, and while I was occupied with far different thoughts,\" he wrote to Wenceslaus Link, \"the Lord has plunged me into marriage.\" At the time of their marriage, Katharina was 26 years old and Luther was 41 years old.\n\nOn 13 June 1525, the couple was engaged with Johannes Bugenhagen, Justus Jonas, Johannes Apel, Philipp Melanchthon and Lucas Cranach the Elder and his wife as witnesses. On the evening of the same day, the couple was married by Bugenhagen. The ceremonial walk to the church and the wedding banquet were left out, and were made up two weeks later on 27 June.\n\nSome priests and former members of religious orders had already married, including Andreas Karlstadt and Justus Jonas, but Luther's wedding set the seal of approval on clerical marriage. He had long condemned vows of celibacy on Biblical grounds, but his decision to marry surprised many, not least Melanchthon, who called it reckless. Luther had written to George Spalatin on 30 November 1524, \"I shall never take a wife, as I feel at present. Not that I am insensible to my flesh or sex (for I am neither wood nor stone); but my mind is averse to wedlock because I daily expect the death of a heretic.\"\nBefore marrying, Luther had been living on the plainest food, and, as he admitted himself, his mildewed bed was not properly made for months at a time.\n\nLuther and his wife moved into a former monastery, \"The Black Cloister,\" a wedding present from the new elector John the Steadfast (1525–32). They embarked on what appears to have been a happy and successful marriage, though money was often short. Katharina bore six children: Hans – June 1526; Elizabeth – 10 December 1527, who died within a few months; Magdalene – 1529, who died in Luther's arms in 1542; Martin – 1531; Paul – January 1533; and Margaret – 1534; and she helped the couple earn a living by farming and taking in boarders. Luther confided to Michael Stiefel on 11 August 1526: \"My Katie is in all things so obliging and pleasing to me that I would not exchange my poverty for the riches of Croesus.\"\n\nBy 1526, Luther found himself increasingly occupied in organising a new church. His Biblical ideal of congregations choosing their own ministers had proved unworkable. According to Bainton: \"Luther's dilemma was that he wanted both a confessional church based on personal faith and experience and a territorial church including all in a given locality. If he were forced to choose, he would take his stand with the masses, and this was the direction in which he moved.\"\n\nFrom 1525 to 1529, he established a supervisory church body, laid down a new form of worship service, and wrote a clear summary of the new faith in the form of two catechisms. Luther's thought is revolutionary to the extent that it is a theology of the cross, the negation of every affirmation: as long as the cross is at the center, the system building tendency of reason is held in check, and system building does not degenerate into System.\n\nTo avoid confusing or upsetting the people, Luther avoided extreme change. He also did not wish to replace one controlling system with another. He concentrated on the church in the Electorate of Saxony, acting only as an adviser to churches in new territories, many of which followed his Saxon model. He worked closely with the new elector, John the Steadfast, to whom he turned for secular leadership and funds on behalf of a church largely shorn of its assets and income after the break with Rome. For Luther's biographer Martin Brecht, this partnership \"was the beginning of a questionable and originally unintended development towards a church government under the temporal sovereign\".\n\nThe elector authorised a visitation of the church, a power formerly exercised by bishops. At times, Luther's practical reforms fell short of his earlier radical pronouncements. For example, the \"Instructions for the Visitors of Parish Pastors in Electoral Saxony\" (1528), drafted by Melanchthon with Luther's approval, stressed the role of repentance in the forgiveness of sins, despite Luther's position that faith alone ensures justification. The Eisleben reformer Johannes Agricola challenged this compromise, and Luther condemned him for teaching that faith is separate from works. The \"Instruction\" is a problematic document for those seeking a consistent evolution in Luther's thought and practice.\nIn response to demands for a German liturgy, Luther wrote a \"German Mass\", which he published in early 1526. He did not intend it as a replacement for his 1523 adaptation of the Latin Mass but as an alternative for the \"simple people\", a \"public stimulation for people to believe and become Christians.\" Luther based his order on the Catholic service but omitted \"everything that smacks of sacrifice\", and the Mass became a celebration where everyone received the wine as well as the bread. He retained the elevation of the host and chalice, while trappings such as the Mass vestments, altar, and candles were made optional, allowing freedom of ceremony.\n\nSome reformers, including followers of Huldrych Zwingli, considered Luther's service too papistic, and modern scholars note the conservatism of his alternative to the Catholic mass. Luther's service, however, included congregational singing of hymns and psalms in German, as well as of parts of the liturgy, including Luther's unison setting of the Creed. To reach the simple people and the young, Luther incorporated religious instruction into the weekday services in the form of the catechism. He also provided simplified versions of the baptism and marriage services.\n\nLuther and his colleagues introduced the new order of worship during their visitation of the Electorate of Saxony, which began in 1527. They also assessed the standard of pastoral care and Christian education in the territory. \"Merciful God, what misery I have seen,\" Luther wrote, \"the common people knowing nothing at all of Christian doctrine ... and unfortunately many pastors are well-nigh unskilled and incapable of teaching.\"\n\nLuther devised the catechism as a method of imparting the basics of Christianity to the congregations. In 1529, he wrote the \"Large Catechism\", a manual for pastors and teachers, as well as a synopsis, the \"Small Catechism\", to be memorised by the people themselves. The catechisms provided easy-to-understand instructional and devotional material on the Ten Commandments, the Apostles' Creed, the Lord's Prayer, baptism, and the Lord's Supper. Luther incorporated questions and answers in the catechism so that the basics of Christian faith would not just be learned by rote, \"the way monkeys do it\", but understood.\n\nThe catechism is one of Luther's most personal works. \"Regarding the plan to collect my writings in volumes,\" he wrote, \"I am quite cool and not at all eager about it because, roused by a Saturnian hunger, I would rather see them all devoured. For I acknowledge none of them to be really a book of mine, except perhaps the \"Bondage of the Will\" and the Catechism.\" The \"Small Catechism\" has earned a reputation as a model of clear religious teaching. It remains in use today, along with Luther's hymns and his translation of the Bible.\n\nLuther's \"Small Catechism\" proved especially effective in helping parents teach their children; likewise the \"Large Catechism\" was effective for pastors. Using the German vernacular, they expressed the Apostles' Creed in simpler, more personal, Trinitarian language. He rewrote each article of the Creed to express the character of the Father, the Son, or the Holy Spirit. Luther's goal was to enable the catechumens to see themselves as a personal object of the work of the three persons of the Trinity, each of which works in the catechumen's life.\n\nThat is, Luther depicted the Trinity not as a doctrine to be learned, but as persons to be known. The Father creates, the Son redeems, and the Spirit sanctifies, a divine unity with separate personalities. Salvation originates with the Father and draws the believer to the Father. Luther's treatment of the Apostles' Creed must be understood in the context of the Decalogue (the Ten Commandments) and the Lord's Prayer, which are also part of the Lutheran catechetical teaching.\n\nLuther had published his German translation of the New Testament in 1522, and he and his collaborators completed the translation of the Old Testament in 1534, when the whole Bible was published. He continued to work on refining the translation until the end of his life. Others had previously translated the Bible into German, but Luther tailored his translation to his own doctrine.\nTwo of the earlier translations were the Mentelin Bible (1456) and the Koberger Bible (1484). There were as many as fourteen in High German, four in Low German, four in Netherlands language, and various in other languages before the Bible of Luther.\nWhen he was criticised for inserting the word \"alone\" after \"faith\" in Romans 3:28, he replied in part: \"[T]he text itself and the meaning of St. Paul urgently require and demand it. For in that very passage he is dealing with the main point of Christian doctrine, namely, that we are justified by faith in Christ without any works of the Law. ... But when works are so completely cut away—and that must mean that faith alone justifies—whoever would speak plainly and clearly about this cutting away of works will have to say, 'Faith alone justifies us, and not works'.\"\n\nLuther did not include First Epistle of John , the \"Johannine Comma\" (the only passage in the New Testament to mention the Trinity as three distinct persons), in his translation, rejecting it as a forgery. It was inserted into the text by other hands after Luther’s death.\n\nLuther's translation used the variant of German spoken at the Saxon chancellery, intelligible to both northern and southern Germans. He intended his vigorous, direct language to make the Bible accessible to everyday Germans, \"for we are removing impediments and difficulties so that other people may read it without hindrance.\"\n\nPublished at a time of rising demand for German-language publications, Luther's version quickly became a popular and influential Bible translation. As such, it made a significant contribution to the evolution of the German language and literature. Furnished with notes and prefaces by Luther, and with woodcuts by Lucas Cranach that contained anti-papal imagery, it played a major role in the spread of Luther's doctrine throughout Germany. The Luther Bible influenced other vernacular translations, such as William Tyndale's English Bible (1525 forward), a precursor of the King James Bible.\n\nLuther was a prolific hymnodist, authoring hymns such as \"Ein feste Burg ist unser Gott\" (\"A Mighty Fortress Is Our God\"), based on Psalm 46, and \"Vom Himmel hoch, da komm ich her\" (\"From Heaven Above to Earth I Come\"), based on Luke 2:11–12. Luther connected high art and folk music, also all classes, clergy and laity, men, women and children. His tool of choice for this connection was the singing of German hymns in connection with worship, school, home, and the public arena. He often accompanied the sung hymns with a lute, later recreated as the waldzither that became a national instrument of Germany in the 20th century.\n\nLuther's hymns were frequently evoked by particular events in his life and the unfolding Reformation. This behavior started with his learning of the execution of Johann Esch and Heinrich Voes, the first individuals to be martyred by the Roman Catholic Church for Lutheran views, prompting Luther to write the hymn \"Ein neues Lied wir heben an\" (\"A new song we raise\"), which is generally known in English by John C. Messenger's translation by the title and first line \"Flung to the Heedless Winds\" and sung to the tune Ibstone composed in 1875 by Maria C. Tiddeman.\n\nLuther's 1524 creedal hymn \"\" (\"We All Believe in One True God\") is a three-stanza confession of faith prefiguring Luther's 1529 three-part explanation of the Apostles' Creed in the \"Small Catechism\". Luther's hymn, adapted and expanded from an earlier German creedal hymn, gained widespread use in vernacular Lutheran liturgies as early as 1525. Sixteenth-century Lutheran hymnals also included \"Wir glauben all\" among the catechetical hymns, although 18th-century hymnals tended to label the hymn as Trinitarian rather than catechetical, and 20th-century Lutherans rarely used the hymn because of the perceived difficulty of its tune.\nLuther's 1538 hymnic version of the Lord's Prayer, \"Vater unser im Himmelreich\", corresponds exactly to Luther's explanation of the prayer in the \"Small Catechism\", with one stanza for each of the seven prayer petitions, plus opening and closing stanzas. The hymn functioned both as a liturgical setting of the Lord's Prayer and as a means of examining candidates on specific catechism questions. The extant manuscript shows multiple revisions, demonstrating Luther's concern to clarify and strengthen the text and to provide an appropriately prayerful tune. Other 16th- and 20th-century versifications of the Lord's Prayer have adopted Luther's tune, although modern texts are considerably shorter.\n\nLuther wrote \"Aus tiefer Not schrei ich zu dir\" (\"From depths of woe I cry to You\") in 1523 as a hymnic version of Psalm 130 and sent it as a sample to encourage his colleagues to write psalm-hymns for use in German worship. In a collaboration with Paul Speratus, this and seven other hymns were published in the \"Achtliederbuch\", the first Lutheran hymnal. In 1524 Luther developed his original four-stanza psalm paraphrase into a five-stanza Reformation hymn that developed the theme of \"grace alone\" more fully. Because it expressed essential Reformation doctrine, this expanded version of \"Aus tiefer Not\" was designated as a regular component of several regional Lutheran liturgies and was widely used at funerals, including Luther's own. Along with Erhart Hegenwalt's hymnic version of Psalm 51, Luther's expanded hymn was also adopted for use with the fifth part of Luther's catechism, concerning confession.\n\nLuther wrote \"Ach Gott, vom Himmel sieh darein\" (\"Oh God, look down from heaven\"). \"Nun komm, der Heiden Heiland\" (Now come, Savior of the gentiles), based on \"Veni redemptor gentium\", became the main hymn (Hauptlied) for Advent. He transformed \"A solus ortus cardine\" to \"\" (\"We should now praise Christ\") and \"Veni Creator Spiritus\" to \"\" (\"Come, Holy Spirit, Lord God\").\n\nHe wrote two hymns on the Ten Commandments, \"\" and \"Mensch, willst du leben seliglich\". His \"Gelobet seist du, Jesu Christ\" (\"Praise be to You, Jesus Christ\") became the main hymn for Christmas. He wrote for Pentecost \"Nun bitten wir den Heiligen Geist\", and adopted for Easter \" (Christ is risen), based on Victimae paschali laudes. \", a paraphrase of Nunc dimittis, was intended for Purification, but became also a funeral hymn. He paraphrased the Te Deum as \"Herr Gott, dich loben wir\" with a simplified form of the melody. It became known as the German Te Deum.\n\nLuther's 1541 hymn \"\" (\"To Jordan came the Christ our Lord\") reflects the structure and substance of his questions and answers concerning baptism in the \"Small Catechism\". Luther adopted a preexisting Johann Walter tune associated with a hymnic setting of Psalm 67's prayer for grace; Wolf Heintz's four-part setting of the hymn was used to introduce the Lutheran Reformation in Halle in 1541. Preachers and composers of the 18th century, including J.S. Bach, used this rich hymn as a subject for their own work, although its objective baptismal theology was displaced by more subjective hymns under the influence of late-19th-century Lutheran pietism.\n\nLuther's hymns were included in early Lutheran hymnals and spread the ideas of the Reformation. He supplied four of eight songs of the First Lutheran hymnal \"Achtliederbuch\", 18 of 26 songs of the \"Erfurt Enchiridion\", and 24 of the 32 songs in the first choral hymnal with settings by Johann Walter, \"Eyn geystlich Gesangk Buchleyn\", all published in 1524.\n\nLuther's hymns inspired composers to write music. Johann Sebastian Bach included several verses as chorales in his cantatas and based chorale cantatas entirely on them, namely \"Christ lag in Todes Banden\", BWV 4, as early as possibly 1707, in his second annual cycle (1724 to 1725) \"Ach Gott, vom Himmel sieh darein\", BWV 2, \"Christ unser Herr zum Jordan kam\", BWV 7, \"Nun komm, der Heiden Heiland\", BWV 62, \"Gelobet seist du, Jesu Christ\", BWV 91, and \"Aus tiefer Not schrei ich zu dir\", BWV 38, later \"Ein feste Burg ist unser Gott\", BWV 80, and in 1735 \"Wär Gott nicht mit uns diese Zeit\", BWV 14.\n\nIn contrast to the views of John Calvin and Philipp Melanchthon, throughout his life Luther maintained that it was not false doctrine to believe that a Christian's soul sleeps after it is separated from the body in death. Accordingly, he disputed traditional interpretations of some Bible passages, such as the parable of the rich man and Lazarus. This also led Luther to reject the idea of torments for the saints: \"It is enough for us to know that souls do not leave their bodies to be threatened by the torments and punishments of hell, but enter a prepared bedchamber in which they sleep in peace.\" He also rejected the existence of Purgatory, which involved Christian souls undergoing penitential suffering after death. He affirmed the continuity of one's personal identity beyond death. In his Smalcald Articles, he described the saints as currently residing \"in their graves and in heaven.\"\n\nThe Lutheran theologian Franz Pieper observed that Luther's teaching about the state of the Christian's soul after death differed from the later Lutheran theologians such as Johann Gerhard. Lessing (1755) had earlier reached the same conclusion in his analysis of Lutheran orthodoxy on this issue.\n\nLuther's \"Commentary on Genesis\" contains a passage which concludes that \"the soul does not sleep (\"anima non sic dormit\"), but wakes (\"sed vigilat\") and experiences visions\". Francis Blackburne in 1765 argued that John Jortin misread this and other passages from Luther, while Gottfried Fritschel pointed out in 1867 that it actually refers to the soul of a man \"in this life\" (\"homo enim in hac vita\") tired from his daily labour (\"defatigus diurno labore\") who at night enters his bedchamber (\"sub noctem intrat in cubiculum suum\") and whose sleep is interrupted by dreams.\n\nHenry Eyster Jacobs' English translation from 1898 reads:\n\nIn October 1529, Philip I, Landgrave of Hesse, convoked an assembly of German and Swiss theologians at the Marburg Colloquy, to establish doctrinal unity in the emerging Protestant states. Agreement was achieved on fourteen points out of fifteen, the exception being the nature of the Eucharist—the sacrament of the Lord's Supper—an issue crucial to Luther.\n\nThe theologians, including Zwingli, Melanchthon, Martin Bucer, and Johannes Oecolampadius, differed on the significance of the words spoken by Jesus at the Last Supper: \"This is my body which is for you\" and \"This cup is the new covenant in my blood\" (1 Corinthians 11:23–26). Luther insisted on the Real Presence of the body and blood of Christ in the consecrated bread and wine, which he called the sacramental union, while his opponents believed God to be only spiritually or symbolically present.\n\nZwingli, for example, denied Jesus' ability to be in more than one place at a time. Luther stressed the omnipresence of Jesus' human nature. According to transcripts, the debate sometimes became confrontational. Citing Jesus' words \"The flesh profiteth nothing\" (John 6.63), Zwingli said, \"This passage breaks your neck\". \"Don't be too proud,\" Luther retorted, \"German necks don't break that easily. This is Hesse, not Switzerland.\" On his table Luther wrote the words \"Hoc est corpus meum\" (\"This is my body\") in chalk, to continually indicate his firm stance.\n\nDespite the disagreements on the Eucharist, the Marburg Colloquy paved the way for the signing in 1530 of the Augsburg Confession, and for the formation of the Schmalkaldic League the following year by leading Protestant nobles such as John of Saxony, Philip of Hesse, and George, Margrave of Brandenburg-Ansbach. The Swiss cities, however, did not sign these agreements.\n\nSome scholars have asserted that Luther taught that faith and reason were antithetical in the sense that questions of faith could not be illuminated by reason. He wrote, \"All the articles of our Christian faith, which God has revealed to us in His Word, are in presence of reason sheerly impossible, absurd, and false.\" and \"[That] Reason in no way contributes to faith. [...] For reason is the greatest enemy that faith has; it never comes to the aid of spiritual things.\" However, though seemingly contradictorily, he also wrote in the latter work that human reason \"strives not against faith, when enlightened, but rather furthers and advances it\", bringing claims he was a fideist into dispute. Contemporary Lutheran scholarship, however, has found a different reality in Luther. Luther rather seeks to separate faith and reason in order to honor the separate spheres of knowledge that each applies to.\n\nAt the time of the Marburg Colloquy, Suleiman the Magnificent was besieging Vienna with a vast Ottoman army. Luther had argued against resisting the Turks in his 1518 \"Explanation of the Ninety-five Theses\", provoking accusations of defeatism. He saw the Turks as a scourge sent by God to punish Christians, as agents of the Biblical apocalypse that would destroy the antichrist, whom Luther believed to be the papacy, and the Roman Church. He consistently rejected the idea of a Holy War, \"as though our people were an army of Christians against the Turks, who were enemies of Christ. This is absolutely contrary to Christ's doctrine and name\". On the other hand, in keeping with his doctrine of the two kingdoms, Luther did support non-religious war against the Turks. In 1526, he argued in \"Whether Soldiers can be in a State of Grace\" that national defence is reason for a just war. By 1529, in \"On War against the Turk\", he was actively urging Emperor Charles V and the German people to fight a secular war against the Turks.\nHe made clear, however, that the spiritual war against an alien faith was separate, to be waged through prayer and repentance. Around the time of the Siege of Vienna, Luther wrote a prayer for national deliverance from the Turks, asking God to \"give to our emperor perpetual victory over our enemies\".\n\nIn 1542, Luther read a Latin translation of the Qur'an. He went on to produce several critical pamphlets on Islam, which he called \"Mohammedanism\" or \"the Turk\". Though Luther saw the Muslim faith as a tool of the devil, he was indifferent to its practice: \"Let the Turk believe and live as he will, just as one lets the papacy and other false Christians live.\" He opposed banning the publication of the Qur'an, wanting it exposed to scrutiny.\n\nEarly in 1537, Johannes Agricola (1494–1566)—serving at the time as pastor in Luther's birthplace, Eisleben—preached a sermon in which he claimed that God's gospel, not God's moral law (the Ten Commandments), revealed God's wrath to Christians. Based on this sermon and others by Agricola, Luther suspected that Agricola was behind certain anonymous antinomian theses circulating in Wittenberg. These theses asserted that the law is no longer to be taught to Christians but belonged only to city hall. Luther responded to these theses with six series of theses against Agricola and the antinomians, four of which became the basis for disputations between 1538 and 1540. He also responded to these assertions in other writings, such as his 1539 open letter to C. Güttel \"Against the Antinomians\", and his book \"On the Councils and the Church\" from the same year.\n\nIn his theses and disputations against the antinomians, Luther reviews and reaffirms, on the one hand, what has been called the \"second use of the law,\" that is, the law as the Holy Spirit's tool to work sorrow over sin in man's heart, thus preparing him for Christ's fulfillment of the law offered in the gospel. Luther states that everything that is used to work sorrow over sin is called the law, even if it is Christ's life, Christ's death for sin, or God's goodness experienced in creation. Simply refusing to preach the Ten Commandments among Christians—thereby, as it were, removing the three letters l-a-w from the church—does not eliminate the accusing law. Claiming that the law—in any form—should not be preached to Christians anymore would be tantamount to asserting that Christians are no longer sinners in themselves and that the church consists only of essentially holy people.\n\nOn the other hand, Luther also points out that the Ten Commandments—when considered not as God's condemning judgment but as an expression of his eternal will, that is, of the natural law—also positively teach how the Christian ought to live. This has traditionally been called the \"third use of the law.\" For Luther, also Christ's life, when understood as an example, is nothing more than an illustration of the Ten Commandments, which a Christian should follow in his or her vocations on a daily basis.\n\nThe Ten Commandments, and the beginnings of the renewed life of Christians accorded to them by the sacrament of baptism, are a present foreshadowing of the believers' future angel-like life in heaven in the midst of this life. Luther's teaching of the Ten Commandments, therefore, has clear eschatological overtones, which, characteristically for Luther, do not encourage world-flight but direct the Christian to service to the neighbor in the common, daily vocations of this perishing world.\n\nFrom December 1539, Luther became implicated in the bigamy of Philip I, Landgrave of Hesse, who wanted to marry one of his wife's ladies-in-waiting. Philip solicited the approval of Luther, Melanchthon, and Bucer, citing as a precedent the polygamy of the patriarchs. The theologians were not prepared to make a general ruling, and they reluctantly advised the landgrave that if he was determined, he should marry secretly and keep quiet about the matter. As a result, on 4 March 1540, Philip married a second wife, Margarethe von der Saale, with Melanchthon and Bucer among the witnesses. However, Philip was unable to keep the marriage secret, and he threatened to make Luther's advice public. Luther told him to \"tell a good, strong lie\" and deny the marriage completely, which Philip did during the subsequent public controversy. In the view of Luther's biographer Martin Brecht, \"giving confessional advice for Philip of Hesse was one of the worst mistakes Luther made, and, next to the landgrave himself, who was directly responsible for it, history chiefly holds Luther accountable\". Brecht argues that Luther's mistake was not that he gave private pastoral advice, but that he miscalculated the political implications. The affair caused lasting damage to Luther's reputation.\n\nLuther wrote negatively about the Jews throughout his career. Though Luther rarely encountered Jews during his life, his attitudes reflected a theological and cultural tradition which saw Jews as a rejected people guilty of the murder of Christ, and he lived in a locality which had expelled Jews some ninety years earlier. He considered the Jews blasphemers and liars because they rejected the divinity of Jesus. In 1523, Luther advised kindness toward the Jews in \"That Jesus Christ was Born a Jew\" and also aimed to convert them to Christianity. When his efforts at conversion failed, he grew increasingly bitter toward them.\n\nLuther's major works on the Jews were his 60,000-word treatise \"Von den Juden und Ihren Lügen\" (\"On the Jews and Their Lies\"), and \"Vom Schem Hamphoras und vom Geschlecht Christi\" (\"On the Holy Name and the Lineage of Christ\"), both published in 1543, three years before his death. Luther argued that the Jews were no longer the chosen people but \"the devil's people\", and referred to them with violent language. Citing Deuteronomy 13, wherein Moses commands the killing of idolaters and the burning of their cities and property as an offering to God, Luther called for a \"scharfe Barmherzigkeit\" (\"sharp mercy\") against the Jews \"to see whether we might save at least a few from the glowing flames.\" Luther advocated setting synagogues on fire, destroying Jewish prayerbooks, forbidding rabbis from preaching, seizing Jews' property and money, and smashing up their homes, so that these \"envenomed worms\" would be forced into labour or expelled \"for all time\". In Robert Michael's view, Luther's words \"We are at fault in not slaying them\" amounted to a sanction for murder. \"God's anger with them is so intense,\" Luther concluded, \"that gentle mercy will only tend to make them worse, while sharp mercy will reform them but little. Therefore, in any case, away with them!\"\n\nLuther spoke out against the Jews in Saxony, Brandenburg, and Silesia.<ref name=\"Michael:Josel/Strasbourg\">Michael, 117.</ref> Josel of Rosheim, the Jewish spokesman who tried to help the Jews of Saxony in 1537, later blamed their plight on \"that priest whose name was Martin Luther—may his body and soul be bound up in hell!—who wrote and issued many heretical books in which he said that whoever would help the Jews was doomed to perdition.\" Josel asked the city of Strasbourg to forbid the sale of Luther's anti-Jewish works: they refused initially, but did so when a Lutheran pastor in Hochfelden used a sermon to urge his parishioners to murder Jews. Luther's influence persisted after his death. Throughout the 1580s, riots led to the expulsion of Jews from several German Lutheran states.\n\nLuther was the most widely read author of his generation, and within Germany he acquired the status of a prophet. According to the prevailing opinion among historians, his anti-Jewish rhetoric contributed significantly to the development of antisemitism in Germany, and in the 1930s and 1940s provided an \"ideal underpinning\" for the Nazis' attacks on Jews. Reinhold Lewin writes that anybody who \"wrote against the Jews for whatever reason believed he had the right to justify himself by triumphantly referring to Luther.\" According to Michael, just about every anti-Jewish book printed in the Third Reich contained references to and quotations from Luther. Heinrich Himmler (albeit never a Lutheran, having been brought up Catholic) wrote admiringly of his writings and sermons on the Jews in 1940. The city of Nuremberg presented a first edition of \"On the Jews and their Lies\" to Julius Streicher, editor of the Nazi newspaper \"Der Stürmer\", on his birthday in 1937; the newspaper described it as the most radically anti-Semitic tract ever published. It was publicly exhibited in a glass case at the Nuremberg rallies and quoted in a 54-page explanation of the Aryan Law by Dr. E.H. Schulz and Dr. R. Frercks.\n\nOn 17 December 1941, seven Protestant regional church confederations issued a statement agreeing with the policy of forcing Jews to wear the yellow badge, \"since after his bitter experience Luther had already suggested preventive measures against the Jews and their expulsion from German territory.\" According to Daniel Goldhagen, Bishop Martin Sasse, a leading Protestant churchman, published a compendium of Luther's writings shortly after Kristallnacht, for which Diarmaid MacCulloch, Professor of the History of the Church in the University of Oxford argued that Luther's writing was a \"blueprint.\" Sasse applauded the burning of the synagogues and the coincidence of the day, writing in the introduction, \"On 10 November 1938, on Luther's birthday, the synagogues are burning in Germany.\" The German people, he urged, ought to heed these words \"of the greatest antisemite of his time, the warner of his people against the Jews.\"\nAt the heart of scholars' debate about Luther's influence is whether it is anachronistic to view his work as a precursor of the racial antisemitism of the Nazis. Some scholars see Luther's influence as limited, and the Nazis' use of his work as opportunistic. Johannes Wallmann argues that Luther's writings against the Jews were largely ignored in the 18th and 19th centuries, and that there was no continuity between Luther's thought and Nazi ideology. Uwe Siemon-Netto agreed, arguing that it was because the Nazis were already anti-Semites that they revived Luther's work. Hans J. Hillerbrand agreed that to focus on Luther was to adopt an essentially ahistorical perspective of Nazi antisemitism that ignored other contributory factors in German history. Similarly, Roland Bainton, noted church historian and Luther biographer, wrote \"One could wish that Luther had died before ever [\"On the Jews and Their Lies\"] was written. His position was entirely religious and in no respect racial.\"\nHowever, Christopher J. Probst, in his book \"Demonizing the Jews: Luther and the Protestant Church in Nazi Germany\" (2012), shows that a large number of German Lutheran clergy and theologians during the Nazi Third Reich used Luther's hostile publications towards the Jews and their Jewish religion to justify at least in part the anti-Semitic policies of the National Socialists.\n\nSome scholars, such as Mark U. Edwards in his book \"Luther's Last Battles: Politics and Polemics 1531–46\" (1983), suggest that since Luther's increasingly antisemitic views developed during the years his health deteriorated, it is possible they were at least partly the product of a state of mind. Edwards also comments that Luther often deliberately used \"vulgarity and violence\" for effect, both in his writings condemning the Jews and in diatribes against \"Turks\" (Muslims) and Catholics.\n\nSince the 1980s, Lutheran denominations have repudiated Martin Luther's statements against the Jews and have rejected the use of them to incite hatred against Lutherans. Strommen et al.'s 1970 survey of 4,745 North American Lutherans aged 15–65 found that, compared to the other minority groups under consideration, Lutherans were the least prejudiced toward Jews. Nevertheless, Professor Richard (Dick) Geary, former Professor of Modern History at the University of Nottingham, England, and the author of \"Hitler and Nazism\" (Routledge 1993), published an article in the magazine \"History Today\" examining electoral trends in Weimar Germany between 1928 and 1933. Geary noted, based on his research, that the Nazi Party received disproportionately more votes from Protestant than Catholic areas of Germany.\n\nLuther had been suffering from ill health for years, including Ménière's disease, vertigo, fainting, tinnitus, and a cataract in one eye. From 1531 to 1546 his health deteriorated further. The years of struggle with Rome, the antagonisms with and among his fellow reformers, and the scandal that ensued from the bigamy of Philip I, Landgrave of Hesse incident, in which Luther had played a leading role, all may have contributed. In 1536, he began to suffer from kidney and bladder stones, arthritis, and an ear infection ruptured an ear drum. In December 1544, he began to feel the effects of angina.\n\nHis poor physical health made him short-tempered and even harsher in his writings and comments. His wife Katharina was overheard saying, \"Dear husband, you are too rude,\" and he responded, \"They are teaching me to be rude.\" In 1545 and 1546 Luther preached three times in the Market Church in Halle, staying with his friend Justus Jonas during Christmas.\n\nHis last sermon was delivered at Eisleben, his place of birth, on 15 February 1546, three days before his death. It was \"entirely devoted to the obdurate Jews, whom it was a matter of great urgency to expel from all German territory,\" according to Léon Poliakov. James Mackinnon writes that it concluded with a \"fiery summons to drive the Jews bag and baggage from their midst, unless they desisted from their calumny and their usury and became Christians.\" Luther said, \"we want to practice Christian love toward them and pray that they convert,\" but also that they are \"our public enemies ... and if they could kill us all, they would gladly do so. And so often they do.\"\n\nLuther's final journey, to Mansfeld, was taken because of his concern for his siblings' families continuing in their father Hans Luther's copper mining trade. Their livelihood was threatened by Count Albrecht of Mansfeld bringing the industry under his own control. The controversy that ensued involved all four Mansfeld counts: Albrecht, Philip, John George, and Gerhard. Luther journeyed to Mansfeld twice in late 1545 to participate in the negotiations for a settlement, and a third visit was needed in early 1546 for their completion.\n\nThe negotiations were successfully concluded on 17 February 1546. After 8 a.m., he experienced chest pains. When he went to his bed, he prayed, \"Into your hand I commit my spirit; you have redeemed me, O Lord, faithful God\" (Ps. 31:5), the common prayer of the dying. At 1 a.m. he awoke with more chest pain and was warmed with hot towels. He thanked God for revealing his Son to him in whom he had believed. His companions, Justus Jonas and Michael Coelius, shouted loudly, \"Reverend father, are you ready to die trusting in your Lord Jesus Christ and to confess the doctrine which you have taught in his name?\" A distinct \"Yes\" was Luther's reply.\n\nAn apoplectic stroke deprived him of his speech, and he died shortly afterwards at 2:45 a.m. on 18 February 1546, aged 62, in Eisleben, the city of his birth. He was buried in the Castle Church in Wittenberg, beneath the pulpit. The funeral was held by his friends Johannes Bugenhagen and Philipp Melanchthon. A year later, troops of Luther's adversary Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor entered the town, but were ordered by Charles not to disturb the grave.\n\nA piece of paper was later found on which Luther had written his last statement. The statement was in Latin, apart from \"We are beggars,\" which was in German. The statement reads:\n\n<poem># No one can understand Virgil's \"Bucolics\" unless he has been a shepherd for five years. No one can understand Virgil's \"Georgics\", unless he has been a farmer for five years.\n\nDo not assail this divine Aeneid; nay, rather prostrate revere the ground that it treads.\n\nWe are beggars: this is true.</poem>\n\nThe tomb of Philipp Melanchthon, Luther's contemporary and fellow reformer, is also located in the All Saints' Church.\n\nLuther made effective use of Johannes Gutenberg's printing press to spread his views. He switched from Latin to German in his writing to appeal to a broader audience. Between 1500 and 1530, Luther's works represented one fifth of all materials printed in Germany.\n\nIn the 1530s and 1540s, printed images of Luther that emphasized his monumental size were crucial to the spread of Protestantism. In contrast to images of frail Catholic saints, Luther was presented as a stout man with a \"double chin, strong mouth, piercing deep-set eyes, fleshy face, and squat neck.\" He was shown to be physically imposing, an equal in stature to the secular German princes with whom he would join forces to spread Lutheranism. His large body also let the viewer know that he did not shun earthly pleasures like drinking—behavior that was a stark contrast to the ascetic life of the medieval religious orders. Famous images from this period include the woodcuts by Hans Brosamer (1530) and Lucas Cranach the Elder and Lucas Cranach the Younger (1546).\n\nLuther is honoured on 18 February with a commemoration in the Lutheran Calendar of Saints and in the Episcopal (United States) Calendar of Saints. In the Church of England's Calendar of Saints he is commemorated on 31 October.\n\nMartin Luther is honored in various ways by Christian traditions coming out directly from the Protestant Reformation, i.e. Lutheranism, the Reformed tradition, and Anglicanism. Branches of Protestantism that emerged afterwards vary in their remembrance and veneration of Luther, ranging from a complete lack of a single mention of him to a commemoration almost comparable to the way Lutherans commemorate and remember his persona. There is no known condemnation of Luther by Protestants themselves.\n\nVarious sites both inside and outside Germany (supposedly) visited by Martin Luther throughout his lifetime commemorate it with local memorials. Saxony-Anhalt has two towns lawfully named after Luther, Lutherstadt Eisleben and Lutherstadt Wittenberg. Mansfeld is sometimes called Mansfeld-Lutherstadt, although the state government has not decided to put the \"Lutherstadt\"-prefix in its official name.\n\nReformation Day commemorates the publication of the \"Ninety-five Theses\" in 1517 by Martin Luther; it has been historically important in the following European entities. It is a civic holiday in the German states of Brandenburg, Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, Saxony, Saxony-Anhalt, Thuringia, Schleswig-Holstein and Hamburg. Two further states (Lower Saxony and Bremen) are pending a vote on introducing it. Slovenia celebrates it due to the profound contribution of the Reformation to its culture. Austria allows Protestant children not to go to school that day, and Protestant workers have a right to leave work in order to participate in a church service. Switzerland celebrates the holiday on the first Sunday after 31 October. It is also celebrated elsewhere around the world.\n\n\n\nFor works by and about Luther, see Martin Luther (resources) or at Wikisource.\n\n"}
{"id": "16930268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16930268", "title": "Mello (Death Note)", "text": "Mello (Death Note)\n\n, universally referred to by the mononym , is a fictional character in the manga series \"Death Note\", created by Tsugumi Ohba and Takeshi Obata. Mello is introduced alongside Near as a potential substitute for L. Both Mello and Near were raised at Wammy's House, an orphanage established by Watari, L's assistant. However, Mello refuses to work with Near to capture a murderer dubbed \"Kira\". Over the course of \"Death Note\", he joins the mafia, obtains a Death Note, causes the death of some people, and dies before he can expose Kira's identity. Mello has also appeared in other media from the series, including video games, and light novels.\n\nThe character of Mello was created, along with Near, to break the endless cycle of confrontations between the detective L and Light Yagami, the man behind the persona Kira. Both Mello and Near were designed after L, and were initially envisioned as twins and sons of L. Ultimately, this idea was dropped, with their designs switched compared to the original concept. He is voiced in the Japanese anime series by Nozomu Sasaki and in the English adaptation by David Hurwitz. Merchandise has been created for the character, including plush dolls and action figures. Mello has received mixed commentary by manga and anime publications.\n\nMello, whose real name is Mihael Keehl, grew up in Wammy's House, an orphanage for intellectually gifted children, and is one of two potential successors to L—the best detective in the world. When L dies, it is proposed to him to work with Near, the other potential successor, to find L's murderer, a criminal dubbed \"Kira\". Mello rejects the proposal, citing their bad relationship and different personalities. Then, he leaves the orphanage and joins the Mafia. Aware of a Death Note—a book that allows anyone to murder individuals just by knowing their faces and names—in Japanese police's possession, Mello abducts its director; Kira, however, kills the director. Afterwards, Mello proceeds to kidnap Sayu Yagami, the daughter of the police's vice-director, Soichiro Yagami; Mello succeeds in obtaining the Death Note this time.\n\nLight Yagami, the true identity of Kira, discovers the location of Mello's hideout. An indirect result of this is that Mello meets the Shinigami Sidoh, the original owner of Mello's Death Note. Sidoh reveals to him—in exchange for some of Mello's chocolate—that there are two extra fake rules (in addition to a number of real ones specified to each Death Note's owner). Mello begins to theorize that whoever Kira is, he probably used these spurious rules to fool the Japanese police into thinking he is innocent. However, Light launches a SWAT team led by Soichiro to raid the hideout. In order to escape, Mello detonates remote-controlled explosives, after one of his Mafia accomplices fatally wounds Soichiro. Mello is left with a scar on his face, and the failure of his Mafia scheme leaves his real name in Light's hands.\n\nMello invades SPK—an organization that aims to catch Kira—to retrieve a photograph of himself from Near. Before he leaves SPK, Mello tells Near about Sidoh and the fake rules, which sharpens Near's suspicions on Light. Mello then enlists the help of his friend Matt to spy on Misa Amane, suspecting she is helping Kira. After learning that Light is Kira and Near is going to attempt to apprehend him, Mello and Matt kidnap Kiyomi Takada, Kira's spokesperson. Matt pretends to attack Takada, and Mello offers to take her to safety. Takada agrees but then realizes his identity. Mello forces her to strip naked to get rid of any tracking devices. However, Takada uses a hidden piece of Death Note paper to kill Mello, as Light had told her his name and what to do in such a situation. Mello's actions ultimately lead to Light's downfall; Teru Mikami uses the hidden real Death Note to try to kill Takada, which leads to Near learning that the notebook Mikami had been using prior is fake and swapping the real Death Note with his own fake for the final confrontation with Kira.\n\nIn the live-action television drama, Mello is portrayed by Mio Yūki. A major change is made to this character; Mello is the other half of Near. He lives inside of Near's body. A puppet of Mello is seen in Near's hand. After knowing that L is killed, Mello possesses Near and teams up with Himura. Mello takes Himura's help to kidnap Sayu Yagami in order to obtain the Death Note. Light Yagami makes Himura to blow up Mello's hideout with the help of Death Note. Mello survives the bombing and, over the phone, vows to expose Light as Kira. Light plans another ambush with the task force and Japanese police in order to defeat Mello. Later, Light meets with Misa and Mikami and orders them to kill the task force and Mello respectively. During the ambush, Light confronts Mello in a warehouse, who reverts to his Near personality. Near reveals that he pretended to be taken over by Mello as part of a plan to expose Mikami as the current Kira.\n\nAside from the initial manga, Mello appears in other media based on \"Death Note\". He serves as the narrator of Nisio Isin's light novel \"\". He is featured in two video games; in \"Death Note: L o Tsugu Mono\", he can serve as Kira or Kira's accomplice, and in the \"Weekly Shōnen Jump\"-based fighting game \"Jump Ultimate Stars\", he is a support character. Mello also appears in the animated special \"Death Note: Relight 2: L's Successors\", which retells the second half of the anime. In it, his story is almost the same, the only exception is that Mello's involvement with the mafia is removed.\n\nTsugumi Ohba, \"Death Note\"s writer, introduced Near and Mello together because he felt L individually could not defeat Kira and that introducing only one new character would produce a \"repeat\" of the struggle between Light and L. Ohba asked Takeshi Obata, artist of the series, to make both characters look \"a little 'L-ish.'\" Ohba \"wavered\" in their ages and considered making the characters the sons of L. As Ohba wanted to \"include a little L\" in Near and Mello, Obata tried to keep \"the weirdness and the panda eyes\". Since L is an important character, Obata felt that he had made Near and Mello look too much like L. When he first heard about Near and Mello, Obata assumed that they would join as a team and work together, so he envisioned the two as twins, describing the creation of the character designs as \"a major struggle\". At first, he tried to depict Mello as having \"more energy than Near\". However, the designs for the characters became switched at a later phase; the final Mello had Near's design and vice versa. When Obata created the designs, his editor wrote the wrong names to accompany them; when Obata received approval for the designs, it was too late to point out that the labels were incorrect. Initially, for him, Mello was \"more calm and feminine\", but later he felt that \"it's better\" that the switch occurred.\n\nOhba did not initially develop Mello and Near's personalities as he wanted to \"reveal\" them through their actions. He added the chocolate trait because he believed that chocolate \"represented all sweets\" and that the trait would fit with the story arc in the United States. Obata designed Mello's clothing based on clothes he enjoys drawing, which includes \"shiny\" leather. At first, Mello's hair was cut straight across; Obata preferred Mello's hair becoming messy, which occurred later in the story. Obata became grateful when Ohba added the scar since he felt that he could draw Mello \"looking cooler\". Ohba added Mello's scar to the thumbnails as the trait would give him \"more depth\"; he further added Mello looks \"more intense\" and \"more human\" with the scar. After drawing Mello's updated appearance with the scar, Obata \"finally [felt that he could draw Mello] really well\". Obata said that the fact that Ohba and Obata did not regularly meet in person was for the best, because if Obata had told Ohba about his satisfaction with Mello's new appearance, Ohba might not have killed Mello. However, Obata felt sad when Mello died in the story shortly afterwards.\n\nOhba considered having Mello be the character who ultimately defeats Light. According to Ohba, after the disappearance of Sidoh, the writer \"struggled\" with Mello's role. Ohba's idea of Mello ultimately defeating Light and Near, being \"the best\", was strong in his mind, but once Mello had \"learned too much about the Death Note\", he had to kill him to \"sustain the intensity of the story\". As a result, Ohba did not give Mello a \"large role\" at the conclusion of \"Death Note\" and instead had Mello negatively affect Light \"indirectly\". Ohba gave Mello a \"very plain\" death, depicted in only one panel; he felt that if Mello had perished \"dramatically\" it would reveal the truth behind his death.\n\nMerchandise based on his character has been released, including action figures and plush dolls. Moreover, several publications for manga and anime have commented on Mello's character. Referring to Mello and Near's introduction, Julie Rosato of Mania.com said the \"focus on both makes for a clash of attitudes and rough transitions\". However, as they were introduced in the anime, IGN's Tom S. Pepirium criticized how it is not explained \"what Mello is doing and how it differs from Near's story\". Writing for Active Anime, Holly Ellingwood stated they \"truly represent – Light's newest and greatest enemies\", while Briana Lawrence from Anime News Network said both could be \"much better characters\" if they were treated as individuals instead of \"different halves of L\". Erin Finnegan from Pop Culture Shock praised \"\" for the absence of Mello and Near.\n\nAnime News Network's Casey Brienza stressed Mello's presence as a narrator in the light novel \"makes things a bit too breathless in places and a bit too self-conscious in others\". A. E. Sparrow from IGN praised how the introduction of Mello, \"a man of action\", \"spiced things up a bit\" as he brought \"actually\" action to the series. Manga News said Mello is \"an interesting character\" as he is \"unpredictable\" and also praised the action scenes he brings. As such, they criticized his almost total absence in volume 10 as he is \"one of the few to bring some new blood to the series\". After Mello's death, Pepirium wrote \"Mello deserved more.\" On the other hand, Mello is \"an unhinged character that only offers unpredictability\", according to Chris Beveridge of Mania.com. \"AnimeLand\" and Manga News presented opposite opinions if whether or not Mello is charismatic character, with the former declaring he does not replace L as he lacks charisma.\n"}
{"id": "47141320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47141320", "title": "Natasha Jiménez", "text": "Natasha Jiménez\n\nNatasha Jiménez is a trans and intersex activist and author who is currently the General Coordinator for MULABI, Latin American Space for Sexualities and Rights, the first host of the Intersex Secretariat for ILGA. She is an advisory board member for the first intersex human rights fund and participated in the first intersex hearing on human rights before the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights.\n\nAn intersex and trans activist for over 30 years, Jiménez started her activism in feminist and LGBT movements in Latin America, and speaks at a range of national and international human rights institutions. In \"Terrorizing Women: Feminicide in the Americas\", Rosa-Linda Fregoso and Cynthia Bejarando Jímenez remarks, \nIn March 2013, Jiménez, together with Mauro Cabral, Paula Sandrine Machado and Pidgeon Pagonis testified to the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights on \"Situation of Human Rights of Intersex Persons in the Americas\". The first hearing on intersex human rights before the Commission, each shared their personal experiences and presented broader issues, such as \"normalization\" surgery on the genitals of intersex infants.\n\nIn 2015, Jiménez joined an international advisory board for a first philanthropic Intersex Human Rights Fund established by the Astraea Lesbian Foundation for Justice. In 2016, the role of Intersex Secretariat of ILGA was passed to Miriam van der Have.\n\nJiménez has contributed to \"Inter: Erfahrungen intergeschlechtlicher Menschen in der Welt der zwei Geschlechter\", edited by Elisa Barth et al., \"What is the Point of a Revolution if I Can’t Dance\" by Jane Barry and Jelena Dordevic, and \"Interdicciones\" edited by Mauro Cabral.\n\n"}
{"id": "32404272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32404272", "title": "O'Shea (band)", "text": "O'Shea (band)\n\nO'Shea is a country music duo formed by husband and wife team Mark O'Shea (born 16 February 1977) and Jay O'Shea (previously Kylie Smith, born 17 January 1974). Since relocating to Nashville in 2007, the duo has seen success as artists and songwriters, and also as finalists in the Country Music Television series \"Can You Duet\".\n\nIndividually Mark and Jay have both seen success as independent artists as their career has taken them across the globe. Originally from Dalby, Queensland Mark had begun his musical career at an early age by winning the Gympie Music Muster talent competition in 1993 which led to a record deal he signed at age 17. His debut album earned Mark two Golden Guitar awards from the CMAA for Best New Talent of the Year (1996) for the track \"The Swimming Song\" and Best Video (1997) for \"The Dreamer\". Eventually Mark left his solo career to form rock/pop group Zinc that signed with Los Angeles-based label, Trauma. The band's first single released in Australia, \"The Morning After\" (co-written with Mark Hudson), reached No. 22 on the ARIA Charts in 2004. In 2006, Mark toured as a guitarist for artist Ronn Moss and also had his own song \"When We Kissed\" recorded and released on Moss' \"Uncovered\" album in 2005.\n\nIn addition to her musical endeavours, Jay also toured the UK and Europe with the Australian Dance-Drill team at age 15. In 2003 Jay signed her first publishing deal with Warner Chappell London. While working in London, Jay co-wrote \"Rutinas\" with Wendy Page and Jim Marr. It became the hit single on Chenoa's album \"Nada Es Igual\" and reached No. 1 on the Spanish chart in 2005.\n\nIn 2007, they moved to Nashville, Tennessee and began performing as a duo. O'Shea was soon travelling across the US to open for artists Phil Vassar, Jimmy Wayne, Sara Evans, and the Oak Ridge Boys.\n\nWhile working with Nashville-based Australian producer Mark Moffat the duo recorded the hit single \"Old School\". The video for the single reached No. 7 on Australia's Country Music Channel in 2010. The next single released, \"Smash\", co-written with Kim Carnes, reached No. 1 on CMC's Top 50 Video Countdown. In 2011, O'Shea performed at \"CMC Rocks the Hunter\" and hosted the DVD coverage of the event.\n\nIn 2010, the pair began hosting their own TV show called \"O'Shea USA\" which aired on Australia’s Country Music Channel (CMC).\n\nIn 2011, the duo signed with Sony Australia to release their debut album \"Mr. and Mrs.\" The album featured 11 tracks written/co-written by the duo alongside Nashville co-writers Dave Berg, Josh Leo, and Georgia Middleman. It debuted at No. 9 on the ARIA Charts.\n\nO'Shea was awarded the 2012 CMAA New Talent of the Year Award.\n\nTheir album \"One + One\" debuted at number 3 on the ARIA Country Charts and cracked the top 30 on the all genre chart in 2013.\n\nIn 2015, the duo's album \"The Famine and the Feast\" reached number 36 on the ARIA Charts, and number 1 on the ARIA Country Albums chart.\n\nMark and Jay became a couple in 1996 and subsequently married. They have two daughters.\n\nIn 2014 Jay collaborated with her birth father, Midnight Oil drummer Rob Hirst on \"The Truth Walks Slowly\". Jay met Hirst in 2010 following a long search for her birth parents, after they gave her up for adoption when they were teenagers.\n\nMark is a keen angler.\n\n"}
{"id": "21819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21819", "title": "Papal diplomacy", "text": "Papal diplomacy\n\nAn apostolic nuncio (also known as a papal nuncio or simply as a nuncio) is an ecclesiastical diplomat, serving as an envoy or a permanent diplomatic representative of the Holy See to a state or to an international organization. A nuncio is appointed by and represents the Holy See, and is the head of the diplomatic mission, called an Apostolic Nunciature, which is the equivalent of an embassy. The Holy See is legally distinct from the Vatican City or the Catholic Church. A nuncio is usually an archbishop.\n\nAn apostolic nuncio is generally equivalent in rank to that of ambassador extraordinary and plenipotentiary, although in Catholic countries the nuncio often ranks above ambassadors in diplomatic protocol. A nuncio performs the same functions as an ambassador and has the same diplomatic privileges. Under the 1961 Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, to which the Holy See is a party, a nuncio is an ambassador like those from any other country. The Vienna Convention allows the host state to grant seniority of precedence to the nuncio over others of ambassadorial rank accredited to the same country, and may grant the deanship of that country's diplomatic corps to the nuncio regardless of seniority. The representative of the Holy See in some situations is called a Delegate or, in the case of the United Nations, Permanent Observer. In the Holy See hierarchy, these usually rank equally to a nuncio, but they do not have formal diplomatic status, though in some countries they have some diplomatic privileges.\n\nIn addition, the nuncio serves as the liaison between the Holy See and the Church in that particular nation, supervising the diocesan episcopate (usually a national conference of bishops which has its own chairman, usually the highest-ranking bishop or archbishop, especially if his seat carries the title of primate or he has individually been created a cardinal) and has an important role in the selection of bishops.\n\nThe name nuncio is derived from the ancient Latin word, \"nuntius\", meaning \"envoy\" or \"messenger\".\n\nFormerly, the title (Apostolic) Internuncio denoted a papal diplomatic representative of the second class, corresponding to Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary as a title for diplomatic representatives of states (cf. Article 14, par. 2 of the Vienna Convention). Before 1829, Internuncio was the title applied instead to the \"ad interim\" head of a mission when one Nuncio had left office and his replacement had not yet assumed it.\n\nA legate a latere is a temporary papal representative or a representative for a special purpose.\n\nHistorically, the most important type of apocrisiary (a title also applying to representatives exchanged by a high prelate with a Patriarch) was the equivalent of a nuncio, sent by the Pope to the Byzantine Empire; during the fifth and sixth centuries, when much of Italy remained under Byzantine control, several Popes were former apocrisiaries.\n\nPro-nuncio was a term used from 1965 to 1991 for a papal diplomatic representative of full ambassadorial rank accredited to a country that did not accord him precedence over other ambassadors and \"de jure\" deanship of the Diplomatic Corps. In those countries, the papal representative's precedence within the corps is exactly on a par with that of the other members of ambassadorial rank, so that he becomes dean only on becoming the senior member of the corps.\n\nIn countries with whom the Holy See does not have diplomatic ties, an Apostolic Delegate may be sent to act as a liaison with the Roman Catholic Church in that country, though not accredited to its government. Apostolic delegates have the same ecclesiastical rank as nuncios, but have no formal diplomatic status, though in some countries they have some diplomatic privileges. For example, an apostolic delegate served as the Holy See's \"de facto\" diplomatic representative to the United States and the United Kingdom, until both major Anglo-Saxon states with a predominantly Protestant tradition established full-fledged relations with the Holy See in the late twentieth century, allowing for the appointment of a Papal Nuncio (see the list of British Ambassadors to the Holy See). Archbishop Pio Laghi, for example, was first apostolic delegate, then pro-nuncio, to the United States during the Jimmy Carter, Ronald Reagan, and George H. W. Bush presidencies.\n\nApostolic delegates are also sent to regions such as the West Indies and the islands of the Pacific. These delegates are also appointed nuncio to at least some of the many states covered by their delegation, but the area entrusted to them also contains one or more territories that either are not independent states or are states that do not have diplomatic relations with the Holy See.\n\nArticle 16 of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations provides:\n\nIn accordance with this article, many states (even not predominantly Catholic ones such as Germany and Switzerland and including the great majority in central and western Europe and in the Americas) give precedence to the Nuncio over other diplomatic representatives, according him the position of Dean of the Diplomatic Corps reserved in other countries for the longest-serving resident ambassador.\n\nA Holy See Representative is accredited to an international organisation (mostly UN-related or regional) where other states dispatch a Permanent Representative, usually at ambassadorial level (Titular Archbishop, equivalent a papal Nuncio).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24535515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24535515", "title": "Postbaccalaureate program", "text": "Postbaccalaureate program\n\nPostbaccalaureate programs (postbac) are reserved for students who are working toward a second bachelor's degree or a second entry degree. These programs are offered for those who already have a first undergraduate degree. Post Baccalaureate programs are not considered traditional graduate education, but it is more advanced than a bachelor's degree. These programs are offered under the umbrella of continuing education and leads to a second graduate degree. Often first year of the second entry degree is redacted with Postbaccalaureate credentials (PBD). Programs like post-degree diploma, graduate diploma, graduate certificates or a pre-medical to a master's degree in a field such as biomedical or health sciences may come under the range of post-baccalaureate programs. In addition, students with a bachelor's degree, who wish to pursue a master's degree in a field other than their BS/BA degree, may be admitted to a college or university individualized or preset postbac program to earn the necessary entry credits in their new chosen subject. These courses of study are considered as an equivalent blend of foundation year graduate/professional school studies and final year of the specific bachelor's program. This also provides opportunity to those who prepare for changing careers and profession or as a supportive for those interested in continuing education to familiarize with new modalities in their particular fields. The usual length of the programs is 8 months to 1 year and the advanced thesis route grad-entry program is for 2 years.\n"}
{"id": "8221582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8221582", "title": "Ralph Fasanella", "text": "Ralph Fasanella\n\nRalph Fasanella (September 2, 1914 – December 16, 1997) was a self-taught painter whose large, detailed works depicted urban working life and critiqued post-World War II America.\nRalph Fasanella was born to Joseph and Ginevra (Spagnoletti), Italian immigrants, in the Bronx on Labor Day in 1914. He was the third of six children. His father delivered ice to local homes. His mother worked in a neighborhood dress shop drilling holes into buttons, and spent her spare time as an anti-fascist activist.\n\nFasanella spent much of his youth delivering ice with his father from a horse-driven wagon. This experience deeply impressed him. He saw his father as representative of all working men, beaten down day after day and struggling for survival. \"Fasanella later said that the compositional density of his pictures was influenced by the experience of helping his father deliver ice, which involved removing all the food from customers' refrigerators and arranging it in neatly ordered stacks.\"\n\nFasanella's mother was a literate, sensitive, progressive woman. She instilled in Fasanella a strong sense of social justice and political awareness. Fasanella began accompanying his mother when she worked on anti-fascist and trade union causes. Fasanella also helped his mother publish and distribute a small Italian-language, anti-fascist newspaper to help support the family.\n\nJoseph Fasanella abandoned his family and returned to Italy in the 1920s. This increased the influence Fasanella's mother had over young Ralph, but it also led to some behavioral problems.\n\nFasanella served two stints in reform schools run by the Catholic Church for truancy and running away from home. He later said he was sexually abused (\"used as a girl\") by the priests. These experiences instilled a deep dislike for authority and reinforced Fasanella's hatred for anything which broke people's spirits. Fasanella later depicted his experience in reform school in a painting titled \"Lineup at the Protectory 2\" (1961). The melancholy image features rows of boys standing at attention, watched over by scowling, ominous-looking priests. Fasanella quit school after the sixth grade.\n\nDuring the Great Depression, Fasanella worked as a textile worker in garment factories and as a truck driver. He became a member of United Electrical, Radio and Machine Workers of America (UE) Local 1227 while working as a machinist in Brooklyn. He became strongly aware of the growing economic and social injustice in the U.S., as well as the plight and powerlessness of the working class.\n\nIn late 1930s, Ralph Fasanella volunteered to fight in the Abraham Lincoln Brigade, an American paramilitary force fighting to support the Second Spanish Republic against the successful fascist rebellion led by General Francisco Franco.\n\nAfter the Spanish Civil War, Fasanella returned to the United States, where he began organizing labor unions.\n\nFasanella joined the UE staff in 1940. He organized a Western Electric manufacturing plant in Manhattan, a Sperry Gyroscope factory, and a number of other electrical equipment and machine plants in and around New York City. One of his later paintings shows a union organizing committee meeting being held in a UE hall.\n\nIt was during a UE organizing drive in 1940 that Fasanella first began to draw.\n\nFasanella married Matilda Weiss in 1943. The short-lived marriage ended in 1944.\n\nIn the mid-1940s, Fasanella began to suffer from intense finger pain caused by arthritis. A union co-worker suggested that he take up painting as a way to exercise his fingers and ease the pain.\n\nIn 1945, Fasanella persuaded the UE to organize painting classes for its members at a local college. He was one of the first members to sign up for classes.\n\nFasanella became consumed by art, and left labor union organizing to paint full-time. To pay the bills, he bought a service station and worked there.\n\nFasanella's painting focused on city life, men and women at work, union meetings, strikes, sit-ins and baseball games. He quickly developed a style which spoke to workers and the poor through the use of familiar details. Fasanella improvised a quasi-surrealist style, depicting interiors and exteriors or past and future simultaneously. He painted canvases as big as 10 feet across because he envisioned his paintings hanging in large union meeting halls.\n\n\" 'I always felt embarrassed by the whole thing,' he said, 'but I had to do it.' \"\n\nFasanella's art was highly improvisational. He never planned out works, and rarely revised them. He said of his 1948 painting \"May Day\", it \"just came out of my belly. I never planned it. I don't know how I did it.\"\n\nHis first solo show was at the ACA Galleries in New York City in 1948. One of his first sales was to choreographer Jerome Robbins.\n\nIn 1950, Fasanella married Eva Lazorek, a school teacher. They had a son, Marc, and a daughter, Gina.\n\nFasanella's opinionated, leftist-oriented artwork caused him to be blacklisted among art dealers and galleries during the McCarthy era. His wife supported him by teaching school.\n\nFasanella's work, however, remained largely unknown for nearly 30 years. While he was acknowledged within labor and leftist circles, his art remained more of a popular curiosity.\n\nA self-proclaimed folk-art dealer \"discovered\" Fasanella in 1972.\n\nOn October 30, 1972, Fasanella appeared on the cover of \"New York\" magazine. The cover depicted him wearing a work shirt and standing in his tiny studio. Accompanying the photo was the headline: \"This man pumps gas in the Bronx for a living. He may also be the best primitive painter since Grandma Moses.\"\n\nThe \"New York\" magazine cover catapulted Fasanella to national fame.\n\nFasanella was happy with his fame, but dismissed descriptions of his work as primitive. Fasanella said it was not possible to be primitive in a post-industrial society. Critic John Berger agreed, pointing out Fasanella's left-liberal critique of urban living, \"the violence of the daily necessity of the streets .. the way that the density of the working population makes itself felt.\"\n\nIn 1972 he appeared in a major interview, with anchor Patrick Watson, on WNET Channel XIII's groundbreaking newshour \"The Fifty-First State.\" This led to the publishers Alfred Knopf and Company, under chief editor Robert Gottlieb, to commission Watson to write the book \"Fasanella's City,\" which was richly produced, with superb four-colour reproductions of the artist's work.\n\nNow Fasanella's art began to sell. He appeared on \"The Dick Cavett Show\" and \"CBS News Sunday Morning\" with Charles Kuralt, and his work appeared in several documentary films (including one about baseball). A large number of exhibits traveled the U.S. His work brought new respect for folk, urban and working-class art, and encouraged the emerging field of labor culture studies.\n\nFasanella spent three years in Massachusetts in the mid-1970s. He lived in an $18-a-week room at the YMCA while completing 18 canvases. He produced several very large paintings of New England mill towns, three of which depicted the Lawrence textile strike of 1912. He also produced a painting of Julius and Ethel Rosenberg, and violent, blood-red image of the assassination of John F. Kennedy.\n\nIn 1986, Ron Carver, a union organizer, founded a non-profit organization called Public Domain to raise money and acquire Fasanella works so that they could be displayed in public rather than private collections. Carver was inspired by Fasanella himself, who declared, \"I didn't paint my paintings to hang in some rich guy's living room.\"\n\nFasanella's 5-foot by 10-foot painting, \"Lawrence 1912: The Great Strike\" (also titled \"Bread and Roses - Lawrence, 1912\") was purchased by donations from 15 labor unions and the AFL-CIO. It was loaned to the United States Congress, where it hung for years in the Rayburn Office Building in the hearing room of the House Subcommittee on Labor and Education. Following the 1994 elections, a staffer for the new Republican majority in Congress had the painting removed from the hearing room and returned to the owners. The work now hangs at the Labor Museum and Learning Center in Flint, Michigan.\n\nIn 1995, Fasanella's 1950 painting, \"Subway Riders\", was installed in the Fifth Avenue / 53rd Street subway station.\n\nFasanella's \"Family Supper\" is currently on permanent display in the Great Hall at Ellis Island.\n\nBy the end of his life, many of the causes Fasanella fought for no longer enjoyed public favor or had been lost. Fasanella himself lamented the decline in the relevance of his work. \"It's over. What I wanted to do was to paint great big canvases about the spirit we used to have in the movement and then go around the country showing them in union halls. When I started these paintings I had no idea that when they were all finished there wouldn't be any union halls in which to show them.\"\n\nIt quickly became apparent that much of the public fascination for Fasanella's work had relied on the political and socio-economic messages they contained rather than their artistic appeal. As those messages fell from favor, Fasanella was abandoned by many of his strongest supporters. As he told one reporter: \"The other day, I called an old lefty pal at 1199 (the drug and hospital workers' union) and offered them my stuff. 'Forget it Ralph,' he said to me. 'We don't want your stuff.'\"\n\nAt his death, however, he had regained a small measure of popularity. In a press release regarding his death, John Sweeney, president of the AFL-CIO, declared Fasanella to be \"a true artist of the people in the tradition of Paul Robeson and Woody Guthrie.\"\n\nA retrospective at the American Folk Art Museum in 2014 presented critics and the public with an opportunity to reassess Fasanella's art and its place in postwar American culture.\n\nCritics praise Fasanella for utilizing bold images and strong colors:\n\nFasanella is also cited for being able to create deeply detailed works with highly individualized parts, yet unifying these scenes into a coherent single image. \"Typically, his paintings have hundreds, if not thousands, of individually painted people and buildings. But Fasanella's people are never individuals. They're always seen en masse.\"\n\nSome critics have argued that Fasanella's world is one of simplistic nostalgia for a past that never really existed. But his supporters point to the \"anger, anxiety and agitation\" which can be found not only in some of the subjects he depicts (strikes, sit-ins) but in the subtle details of his canvases (such as the angry marchers in his \"May Day\"). \"He has done what he set out to do, paint the heroism of the working class in the organizing struggles of the thirties and the forties and the continuing struggles, the joys and sorrows and the hopes that make up the lives of workers and their families.\"\n\nFasanella's paintings may be found in the following permanent collections and public spaces:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44781566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44781566", "title": "Rashid al-Shakir Sahib al-Taba'a", "text": "Rashid al-Shakir Sahib al-Taba'a\n\nAbu Muhammad Rashid al-Shakir Sahib al-Taba'a (), born around 1790 and died 11 September 1837 at Le Bardo, was a Tunisian politician of Circassian origin.\n\nA mameluke of Hammuda ibn Ali, of high rank in the palace at Le Bardo, he passed into the service of the prince Hussein as Keeper of the Seals and secretary when he became crown prince again in 1815. He accompanied him several times in the military column charged with collecting tribute from the Tunisian tribes and became his son-in-law.\n\nWhen Hussein acceded to the throne in 1824, it was entirely natural that al-Shakir Sahib al-Taba'a became his Grand Vizier and councillor (in 1829). However he had to deal with the powerful commander in chief of the army and son-in-law- of Mahmud Bey, general Slimane Kahia. Shakir Sahib al-Taba'a was an important supporter of the policy of autonomy from the Ottoman Empire which Hussein II attempted to institute. Likewise, during the French conquest of Algeria, he strongly encouraged the Bey not to break relations with France, but to attempt to profit from Paris and the French consul at Tunis, whose influence on the Bey grew ever greater. He restored, for a time, the finances of the state - at the price of violent exactions and extortions from the producers and exporters of olive oil. He allied with the Makhzen family of Ben Ayed in an export enterprise which became the source of his fortune. As a result, the Djellouli family, previously empowered by an alliance with Yusuf Sahib al-Tabi found themselves in difficulty as a result of the economic crisis of 1830, fell deep in debt and were completely bankrupt ten years later; the son of Mahmoud Djellouli sought refuge in Malta for several years and while he regained his family's administrative roles he did not return to the commercial ventures which were the source of their fortune.\n\nIn 1830, Shakir Sahib al-Taba'a persuaded the Bey to respond to the Ottoman Sultan's calls for reform and to institute the first regiments of a regular army, drawn entirely from the best young men in the Turkish militia of Tunis and trained by European instructors. In January 1831, the first regiment was created, composed of several battalions of infantry, a battalion of artillery with 150 men, and a battalion of engineers with 120 men. The soldiers were dressed and armed in the European fashion and formed the original core of the modern Tunisian army, continuing in the reign of Ahmed I Bey.\n\nAfter the death of Hussein II in 1835, Shakir Sahib al-Taba'a began to cultivate a strong influence on his successor and younger brother Mustafa Bey who retained him as Grand vizier, but removed him from his position as Keeper of the Seals. Shakir Sahib at-Taba'a pushed the Bey to carry out many bold but very unpopular reforms, such as general conscription from the population of large towns.\n\nProtests eventually dissuaded the Bey from continuing these reformes, but Shakir Sahib al-Taba'a's role as minister did not end, sue to his great power and influence at court. Moreover, Shakir Sahib al-Taba'a maintained a policy of rapprochment with the Ottoman government in order to counter the growing power of European merchants who were under the protection of the French and English consuls. His reforming spirit and authoritarianism had a powerful influence on the Bey's son, the future Ahmed I Bey. Once in power he revived the reforms of Shakir Sahib al-Taba'a, especially in the realm of military affairs.\n\nDuring the olive oil crisis during the winter of 1833/1834, he repressed a revolt at Kairouan in violation of the holy city's traditional right of asylum and imposed a fine of more than 500,000 rial. Another agricultural crisis of less moment arose at Bizerte in 1837, he once more repressed the revolt of a population squeezed by the weight of taxes.\n\nMustafa Bey, whose suspiscions were encouraged by his entourage and especially by the French consul, decided to execute him. Shakir Sahib al-Taba'a was strangled in the corridor of Le Bardo palace on 11 September 1837, as he went to meet the Bey. A telling sign is that he was assassinated during a visit to Le Bardo by the French consul and the admiral Lalande on a special mission to Tunis. Shakir Sahib al-Taba'a was immediately replaced by Mustafa Sahib at-Taba'a, the oldest minister, although it was Mustapha Khaznadar who became the dominant personage at court.\n\nSahib at-Taba'a possessed large agricultural estates throughout the country, notably in the Sahel, where he supported its economy and helped to bring an end to the economic troubles in the olive oil industry. He owned 2112 olive treesat M'saken, where he built a seraglio, known as the \"Seraglio of General Makroun\". In addition to his ministerial duties he was qaid of Sahel (uniting the qaidats of Sousse and Monastir from 1836 to 1837.\n"}
{"id": "12603943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12603943", "title": "Roberto Agramonte", "text": "Roberto Agramonte\n\nRoberto Daniel Agramonte y Pichardo (3 May 1904 – 12 December 1995) was a philosopher and Cuban politician.\n\nHe graduated from the University of Havana School of Law. Dr. Agramonte was also the Dean of School of Philosophy and Letters at the University of Havana. From 1947 to 1948, he was the Ambassador of Cuba to Mexico. In 1948, he returned to Cuba to run for Vice-President of Cuba with Dr. Eduardo Chibás (as President).\n\nHe was the first Foreign Minister of the Cuban Revolution. He later resigned because of the Communist tilt of the government. In May 1960, he left Cuba for Puerto Rico with his family.\n\nHe was the son of Frank Agramonte and María Pichardo y Pichardo. He was married to Concha María de la Concepción del Río y Madueño and they had two children, Roberto and Conchita Agramonte-del Rio.\n\n"}
{"id": "1189353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1189353", "title": "Shanna the She-Devil", "text": "Shanna the She-Devil\n\nShanna the She-Devil is a fictional jungle adventurer superhero appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Created by writer Carole Seuling and penciller George Tuska, she made her first appearance in \"Shanna the She-Devil\" #1 (Dec. 1972).\n\n\"Shanna the She-Devil\" was introduced in one of a trio of Marvel Comics aimed at a female audience, alongside \"Night Nurse\" and \"Claws of the Cat\". Marvel writer-editor Roy Thomas recalled in 2007 that editor-in-chief Stan Lee\nSeuling in 2010 recalled,\"My instructions were to make [Shanna] someone who would fit in with the times and also was prone to a little more violence than Sheena or the other jungle queens of the past.\" With veteran penciler George Tuska, she created the lead character and her two leopard companions, as well as game warden and potential romantic interest Patrick McShane, loosely based on after actor Patrick McGoohan's game-warden character in the film \"Nor the Moon by Night\".\n\nThe writer Steve Gerber, in his first assignment for Marvel Comics, supplied additional dialogue for that first issue, as well as the next. Seuling explained,\nSteve Gerber did not collaborate with me on the scripts or the origin story, but he added some additional dialogue since Stan [Lee] and Roy [Thomas] thought the stories were a bit light on the talking.\n\nHowever, ... Steve Gerber was not one of the creators. He provided additional dialogue for the first two [issues] and then took over when I left [after four issues]. ... Gerber himself, before he died a few years ago, denied that he had any part in Shanna's origin.\nThis initial series ran five issues (Dec. 1972 - Aug. 1973), with Jim Steranko drawing the covers of #1-2, John Buscema and Joe Sinnott of issue #3, and John Romita Sr. of the final two issues.\n\nThe character went on to a series of guest appearances, first in the jungle lord comic \"Ka-Zar\" #1 (Jan. 1974); then in a storyline running through the superhero comics \"Daredevil\" #109-111 (May–July 1974) and \"Marvel Two-in-One\" #3 (May 1974), which supplied additional details about Shanna's past and family, and notes McShane's murder by the supervillainess Nekra in the interim; in \"Daredevil\" #117 (Jan. 1975); and in a Ka-Zar story in the black-and-white, mature-audience comics magazine \"Savage Tales\" #8 (Jan. 1975).\n\nShanna then starred in two solo stories in \"Savage Tales\" #9-10 (March & May 1975) by writer Carla Conway (assisted by then-husband Gerry Conway on the former), with pencil art by, respectively, Tony DeZuniga and Ross Andru. In the first of these two stories, Shanna's leopards Ina and Biri are killed. Gerry Conway recalled in 2010 that this \"was part of the strategy to make her a stronger, fiercer character in the \"Savage Tales\" mode. It also raised the stakes for her personally, and by eliminating these 'rivals' for her affections opened her up to a relationship with Ka-Zar\", whom she would eventually marry, in \"Ka-Zar the Savage #29 (Dec. 1983).\n\nIn the meantime, Shanna starred in a backup story in \"The Rampaging Hulk\" #9 (June 1978), by writer Gerber and artist DeZuniga. She then starred in several eight-page solo stories in the omnibus title \"Marvel Comics Presents\", beginning with a tale by writer-artist Bruce Jones in issue #13 (Late Feb. 1989), followed by the 10-part \"The Bush of Ghosts\", by writer Gerard Jones and penciler Paul Gulacy in issues #68-77 (Jan.-Late May 1991).\n\nDovetailing with the end of that run came four full-length stories begun in 1978, completing plot threads from Shanna's solo story in \"The Rampaging Hulk\" #9. Written by Gerber and penciled by Carmine Infantino, Bret Blevins (two stories, the first credited as \"A. Novice\") and DeZuniga, these non-chronological, essentially flashback stories ran in \"Marvel Fanfare\" #56-59 (April-Oct. 1991). The title's editor, Al Milgrom, unearthed the unpublished stories because\nMarvel has also published alternate-universe versions of Shanna, unrelated except for the name.\n\nShanna was featured in the \"Marvel NOW!\" book titled \"Savage Wolverine\". The new series, written and drawn by Frank Cho, debuted in January 2013. The title is a team-up story with Shanna and Wolverine as they try to survive the Savage Land together.\n\nShanna O'Hara, Lady Plunder is the daughter of a diamond miner named Gerald O'Hara. Born in Africa, she spent the majority of her childhood growing up in the jungles of Zaire. At the age of six, her father went to kill a rogue leopard that belonged to her mother, Patricia O'Hara. While hunting for the leopard, Shanna's father accidentally killed her mother. This traumatic incident led to Shanna's lifelong crusade against the use of firearms. After the incident, Shanna moved back to the United States to live with relatives. Shanna grows up to become an accomplished Olympic athlete, specializing in competitive swimming and track and field. She then became a licensed veterinarian.\n\nAfter completing college, Shanna began to work for the Central Park Municipal Zoo in New York City as a zoologist. While working at the zoo, Shanna raised many animals, including a female leopard named Julani. During this period another shock to her system came when Julani was shot and killed by a zoo guard. The following day, the zoo director proposes Shanna take Julani's cubs, Ina and Biri — Yoruba names meaning \"bright\" and \"black\", respectively — to the Dahomey Reserve in Africa.\n\nWhile in Africa, Shanna becomes more attuned to nature, patrolling the jungle and living freely in the wild lands. She begins to wear Julani's fur pelt as a sight-and-sense cue to help with the raising of the cubs. In the jungle, Shanna becomes more and more at home with herself and her new native element, all the while protecting the reserve from poachers as Shanna the She-Devil.\n\nDuring her stay in Africa, her father is kidnapped by the Mandrill. Shanna searches for him until the wizard Malgato kidnaps her to the Savage Land, a prehistoric jungle within Antarctica. She escapes with the help of Lord Kevin Plunder, a.k.a. the jungle lord Ka-Zar. Shanna returns to Africa to look for her father, and learns he was killed by the Mandrill. Seeking revenge, she goes to North America to aid Daredevil and Black Widow in stopping the Mandrill and Nekra's plan to overthrow the American government.\n\nAfter this, Shanna travels between San Francisco and the Savage Land, finally returning to Africa only to find Ina and Biri have been killed by a religious cult leader named Raga-Shah. After a short grieving period in North America, Shanna tracks and kills Raga-Shah by feeding him to her python Ananta. Around this time, she begins therapy with psychologist Dr. Dorothy Betz.\n\nShanna returned to the Savage Land and became Ka-Zar's lover. They discovered their lost world was only part of a larger realm, Pangea, filled with wondrous races. The couple's relationship was tempestuous: Shanna married Mele of the Botor who died in a hunting accident while with Ka-Zar. Shanna was also targeted by the demonic Belasco (who felt she resembled his lost love Beatrice). When Ka-Zar was seemingly killed while they were in New York, a distraught Shanna rampaged, was institutionalized, and nearly romanced Peter Parker. Shanna was rescued by a revived Ka-Zar, aided by Spider-Man, and the two returned to Antarctica, where they were married despite interference from Belasco and others. They employed the native warrior woman Zhira as nanny and protector of their son Matthew.\n\nThey survived the temporary destruction of the Savage Land by Terminus and its later re-creation by the High Evolutionary and Garokk.\n\nShanna briefly attained a mystical bond to the spirit of Africa, foiling Sir Guy Cross-Wallace who slaughtered and consumed wildlife, seeking the bond himself to rule the continent. Shanna was also briefly given power over the natural world by the High Evolutionary. Together, Ka-Zar and Shanna fight to preserve the Savage Land from external threats and from pollution by technology.\n\nShanna and Ka-Zar find Skrulls mining the rare metal vibranium in the Savage Land. Soon afterward as part of the \"Secret Invasion\" storyline, a Skrull ship crashes in the Savage Land releasing earlier versions of modern superheroes (who claim to be the originals replaced by Skrulls for some time), and who have escaped. Shanna and Ka-Zar soon learn however, that these are simply more Skrulls in disguise. Spider-Man soon encounters Ka-Zar, Shanna, Zabu, and some of the natives accusing them of being Skrulls. Just then, the Captain America from the ship attacked thinking the same for Spider-Man. Ka-Zar, Shanna, and Zabu help Spider-Man fight the Captain America from the ship until it is hit by a dart that causes it to regress to a Skrull named Pit'o Nilli. Shanna then kills Pit'o Nilli. Shanna stays behind with Zabu to fight off anymore Skrulls left in the Savage Land while Ka-Zar heads with the New Avengers and the Mighty Avengers to New York to fight the Skrulls.\n\nKa-Zar and Shanna later encounter the return of the Ethereals and end up fighting them when it comes to the Ethereals wanting the tribes of the Savage Land to be united with them.\n\nAs part of the 2012 Marvel NOW! branding in the pages of \"Savage Wolverine\", Shanna agrees to guide to a group of S.H.I.E.L.D. agents to a mysterious island within the Savage Land. A dampening field generator causes the transport to crash, and all the agents are killed by the native Neanderthals. At the same time, Wolverine crashes on the island, and joins with Shanna the She-Devil to destroy the dampening field generator.\n\nShanna is gifted with Olympic-class athleticism along with extraordinary agility. She is a well-trained veterinarian, with the capability of being close to wild animals. Shanna is adept at hunting and gathering, healing and tracking. She is an experienced fighter, familiar with knives, spears, bows and arrows and other primitive forms of weapons. She has Olympic athlete-level strength: naturally excelling at swimming, diving, climbing, leaping, and running with great speed and determination.\n\nAfter her resurrection, Shanna is tied into the life force of the Savage Land. She also instinctively knows the languages and history of the Savage Land and its people. Shanna also now possesses the strength of ten men. She was able to run 52 miles per hour over uneven terrain.\n\nA blonde, alternate-universe version of the character starred in the seven-issue miniseries \"Shanna, the She-Devil\" vol. 2 (April-Oct. 2005), written and drawn by Frank Cho. This Shanna is the result of a genetic experiment that endows her with superhuman strength and agility. One member of a scientific expedition that encounters her names her Shanna \"after the comic book character\". The series was published with a \"PSR+\" rating through issue #4, and a \"Parental Advisory\" rating afterward.\n\nA four-issue sequel miniseries, \"Shanna The She-Devil: Survival of the Fittest\" (Oct. 2007 - Jan. 2008) by writers Justin Gray and James Palmiotti and penciller Khari Evans, features this same alternate version of Shanna.\n\nShanna and Ka-Zar first appear in the alternate-universe Ultimate Marvel imprint on the final page of \"Ultimates 3\" #3. Flashbacks reveal that she, Ka-Zar, and Zabu have been friends since childhood. After the Ultimatum wave, they join the New Ultimates where they helped to fight Loki.\n\nShanna was ranked 53rd in \"Comics Buyer's Guide's\" \"100 Sexiest Women in Comics\" list.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14753989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14753989", "title": "Sky-Watcher", "text": "Sky-Watcher\n\nSky-Watcher is a commercial distribution company established in 1999 by the Synta Technology Corporation of Taiwan (Synta Taiwan) that markets telescopes and astronomical equipment, like mounts and eyepieces, aimed at the amateur astronomical market. The products are manufactured at Synta Taiwan's Suzhou Synta Optical Technology Co., Ltd. in Suzhou (Jiangsu), China. The brand is distributed in Canada and Europe and, in the late 2000s, extended to the USA market.\n\nIn 1999, the brand \"Sky-Watcher\" was established to sell Synta Taiwan's optics with head offices in Richmond, British Columbia, Canada. From 2000, the first dobsonians were produced, then in 2001 the first Maksutov-Cassegrains, and in 2004 their first Apochromat ED-APO refracting telescopes. Since 2008, there has been cooperation with Schott AG, a German manufacturer of high-quality industrial glass.\n\nSky-Watcher's product line-up contains telescopes from 2.4\" (60 mm) up to 16\" (406 mm) aperture with manual, motor-driven or GoTo mounts. Since 2008, Sky-Watcher has manufactured dobsonians with collapsible tubes, a product line they call FlexTube-dobsonians.\n\nProducts include telescopes, spotting scopes, mounts, and many accessories.\n\nSky-Watcher has eleven model series of telescopes. These are listed below.\n\nEsprit 80ED, 100ED, 120ED and 150ED Super APO refractors have a doublet field flattener to get a flat field and minimize aberration and distortion. Their wide 48mm opener ensures a larger and clearer aperture and also extremely minimized halation. Connect the triplet and doublet field flattener with a high precision thin thread to keep the optical axis perpendicular to the image.\n\nThe Equinox series are relatively affordable Extra-low Dispersion (ED) apochromatic refractors in Optical Tube Assembly (OTA) between 66 mm and 120 mm (2.60\" - 4.72\"), suitable for astrophotography. The smaller apertures have medium focal ratios and the larger ones have long focal ratios. These telescopes have black-colored tubes.\n\nThe pro series telescopes include two-element air-spaced OTA ED FPL-53 fluorite apochromatic refractors between 80 mm and 120 mm (3.15\" - 4.72\") with long focal ratios, also suitable for astrophotography, as well as OTA Maksutovs with very long focal ratios and apertures of 150 mm and 180 mm (5.91\" and 7.09\"). They are presented in Black Diamond tubes.\n\nThe refractors series are multi-coated achromatic refractors between 70 and 150 mm (2.76\" - 5.91\"). They are available in alt-azimuth mounting for smaller apertures, and equatorial mounting for larger ones. They have long focal ratios, and are constructed with a black aluminum tube.\n\nThe Reflector series telescopes are reflectors with optics aluminized and overcoated with silicon dioxide, available in 76 mm to 254 mm sizes (2.99\" – 10.00\"). All but the smallest size are presented in equatorial mounting; the smallest one in Alt-azimuth. They are available in short, medium, and long focal ratios and chiefly parabolic mirrors. They are made with Black Diamond aluminum tubes. The 130 to 200 mm aperture parabolic mirror scopes are available with shorter tubes and dual speed Crayford focusers and are optimised for astrophotography.\n\nTable top telescopes have a 13\" (330 mm) high equatorial mount, designed to be extremely portable. They include a 130 mm (5.10\") reflector and an 80 mm (3.15\") refractor of short and medium focal lengths respectively, as well as a long-focal length 90 mm (3.54\") Maksutov. They are presented in variable-colored tubes.\n\nThe Solid-tube (traditional) Dobsonians are Dobsonian-mounted Newtonian reflectors available in 153 mm (6\"), 203 mm (8\"), 254 mm (10\"), and 305 mm (12\") models. They have thin 0.5 mm (0.02\")-thick secondary mirror supports, tension control handles, and the 10\" - 12\" version is made from Pyrex glass. They have long, medium, and short focal ratios respectively, in order of increasing aperture. They have white-colored tubes.\n\nThe Collapsible Dobsonians are Dobsonian-mounted Newtonian reflectors available in 200 mm (8\"), 254 mm (10\"), 305 mm (12\") and 406 mm (16\") models. They are similar in design to the Solid-Tube Dobsonians but have black-colored tubes with the middle section of the tube replaced with struts. The struts allow the top portion of the tube to collapse down on the bottom portion, decreasing the tube length when in storage or being transported. The Collapsible Dobsonians also feature Crayford focusers instead of the traditional rack and pinion focuser that was included with the Solid-tube Dobsonians.\n\nThe Short-tube Refractors series are multi-coated two-element air-spaced Rich Field achromatic refractors with focal ratios that allow them to have short and compact tube lengths. They are available in Alt-azimuth versions for smaller apertures and equatorial mounts for larger ones, and are available in 70 mm to 150 mm (2.76\" - 5.91\") apertures. They are presented with blue tubes, and are suited for terrestrial photography as well as astrophotography in the larger versions.\n\nThe Maksutov-Cassegrain telescopes are compact portable multi-coated Maksutov-Cassegrains. They are sold in equatorial mounts and are available in 90 – 180 mm (3.54\" - 7\") apertures. They have very long focal ratios and are sold in blue aluminum tubes. As with the Newtonians, newer ones can have the \"Black Diamond\" finish.\n\nThe auto-tracking series telescopes are motorized alt-azimuth telescopes, allowing the user to automatically track celestial objects. They are available in 70 mm and 80 mm (2.76\" and 3.15\") apertures for refractors with medium, long, and very long focal ratios, as reflectors with 76 mm and 114 mm (2.99\" and 4.49\") apertures and have long and short focal ratios respectively, as well as in 80 mm (3.15\") Maksutov form with a very long focal ratio. They are sold in blue tubes with red-dot style reflector sight finders.\n\nSky-Watcher spotting scopes come in three different designs. Maksutov Spottings are sold as Maksutov telescopes available in 80 mm - 127 mm (3.15\" – 5\") apertures, and are sold as OTA with very long focal ratios and red-dot style reflector sight finders. They are constructed with blue tubes and include a carrying bag. ST1545 and ST2060 spotting scopes are wide-angle and available in 50 mm and 60 mm (1.97\" and 2.36\") sizes with 15-45x and 20-60x zoom respectively. They are sold with tripod attachment capability and a camera adapter and blue tubes. Digital spotting scopes are a multi-purpose digital camera, spotting scope, and telescope. They have a 70 mm (2.36\") refractor design at 14x with zoom capability between 6x and 22x, and have many features including an optional solar filter, video capability, and a tripod adaptor.\n\nAlt-azimuth mount: AZ1, AZ2, AZ3, and AZ4\n\nEquatorial mount: EQ1, EQ2, EQ3, and EQ5\n\nSynScan GoTo mount: EQ3 SynScan, EQ5 SynScan, HEQ5, EQ6, AZ-EQ5, AZ-EQ6 and EQ8\n\nMulti-Purpose mount: AllView mount, and Virtuoso mount\n\n"}
{"id": "2431477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2431477", "title": "Stephen D. Krasner", "text": "Stephen D. Krasner\n\nStephen David Krasner (born 15 February 1942, New York) is an international relations professor at Stanford University and is a former Director of Policy Planning at the United States Department of State, a position he held from 2005 until April 2007 while on leave from Stanford. He is a senior fellow at Stanford's Hoover Institution.\n\nKrasner received his bachelor's degree from the Department of History at Cornell University in 1963, where he was a member of the Quill and Dagger society. He then earned his master's degree from Columbia University, and his PhD from Harvard University. Krasner is the author of six books and over ninety articles. He has taught courses on international relations, international political economy, international relations theory, policy making, and state-building at Stanford University. He received a dean’s award for excellence in teaching in 1991.\n\nOne of his most famous accomplishments in the realm of political science was defining \"international regimes\" as, \"implicit or explicit principles, norms, rules and decision-making procedures around which actors’ expectations converge in a given area of international relations\", in a special issue of the journal \"International Organization\" in 1982. He has also written extensively about statehood and sovereignty.\n\nStephen Krasner is what political scientists define as a neorealist. He writes about the United States as being threatened by weakened nations in the increasingly interconnected international system in his article, \"Addressing State Failure\" (2005). Krasner believes in conflict prevention, in which he believes the United States and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) should make it clear that stabilizing weak states in the world is high on the policy agenda. Krasner lays out three steps to what he believes are the main goals in managing weak post-conflict states successfully, for example the United States rebuilding of Iraq).\n\nKrasner also argues that bureaucratic procedures and bureaucratic politics are not what shape American foreign policy. Instead, he states that the undisputed power of the U.S. President is what ultimately leads to the foreign policy decisions \"Are Bureaucracies Important?\" (1972). He also states that bureaucratic politics are dangerous and misleading, “because it undermines the assumptions of democratic politics by relieving high-ranking officials of responsibility” (1972). Bureaucratic theorists see the collective decisions of smaller actors in the bureaucratic procedure as what influences the foreign policy, not the decisions of the high-ranking executive officials. But Krasner argues that it is a dangerous theory because it gives leaders excuses for their foreign policy failures, and it gives the public a skewed view of the ultimate power that the President possesses. He defines states political objectives as a direct reflection of the President’s national interest goals and beliefs of what he thinks society should be.\n\nStephen Krasner was made famous in the political science world for his extensive contributions on the topic of state sovereignty, in his influential book, \"Sovereignty: Organized Hypocrisy\" (1999), in which he defines state sovereignty as clearly drawn out rules in the international system. In international law, the rule is that a state has the exclusive right to have control over an area of governance, people, and that a state has a legitimate exercise of power and the interpretation of international law. Krasner, however, focuses on the rules of sovereignty continually being broken and specifies four conceptions of sovereignty in international relations:\n\n\nKrasner also describes the four situations in which the international community deems normal rules of sovereignty invalid and subject to outside intervention:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "351501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=351501", "title": "Valerie Harper", "text": "Valerie Harper\n\nValerie Kathryn Harper (born August 22, 1939) is an American actress.\n\nShe played Rhoda Morgenstern in the 1970s television series \"The Mary Tyler Moore Show\" and in its spin-off, \"Rhoda\". She later played Valerie Hogan in \"Valerie\". She is a four-time Primetime Emmy Award winner. Her notable film roles include \"Freebie and the Bean\" (1974), and \"Chapter Two\" (1979), both of which garnered her Golden Globe Award nominations.\n\nHarper is also known for her stage work, having appeared in several Broadway productions. She started her career as a dancer on Broadway, making her debut in the musical \"Take Me Along\" in 1959. In 2010, she was nominated for the Tony Award for Best Actress in a Play for her performance as Talullah Bankhead in the play \"Looped\".\n\nHarper was born in Suffern, New York, the daughter of Iva Mildred (née McConnell; February 8, 1910—Oct 7, 1988) and Howard Donald Harper (January 10, 1907- September , 1981). Her father was a lighting salesman, and her mother was born in Canada and trained as a nurse. She is the middle child of three siblings. She has an older sister, Leah; a younger brother, Merrill (who later took the name \"Don\") and a half-sister, Virginia, from her father's second marriage.\n\nShe has stated that her parents were expecting a boy and after her arrival, her first and middle names derived from that year's women's doubles tennis champions, Valerie Scott and Kay Stammers. She is of French, English, Irish, Scottish, and Welsh ancestry. Harper based her character Rhoda Morgenstern on her Italian stepmother, Angela Posillico, and Penny Ann Green (née Joanna Greenberg), with whom she danced in the Broadway musical \"Wildcat\". She was raised Catholic, although at an early age she \"quit\" the church.\n\nThe family moved every two years due to her father's work, attending schools in South Orange, New Jersey; Pasadena, California; Monroe, Michigan; Ashland, Oregon; and Jersey City, New Jersey. When her family returned to Oregon, Harper remained in the New York City area to study ballet. She attended Lincoln High School in Jersey City, graduating from the private Young Professionals School on West 56th Street, where classmates included Sal Mineo, Tuesday Weld, and Carol Lynley.\n\nHarper began as a dancer and chorus girl on Broadway, and went on to perform in several Broadway shows, some choreographed by Michael Kidd, including \"Wildcat\" (starring Lucille Ball), \"Take Me Along\" (starring Jackie Gleason), and \"Subways Are For Sleeping\". In-between she was also cast in \"Destry Rides Again\" but was forced to leave rehearsals due to illness. Her roommate, actress Arlene Golonka, introduced her to Second City improvisation theater and to improv performer Dick Schaal, whom Harper later married in 1965. Harper was stepmother to Schaal's daughter, Wendy, an actress. They lived in Greenwich Village. She returned to Broadway in February 2010, playing Tallulah Bankhead in Matthew Lombardo's \"Looped\" at the Lyceum Theatre.\n\nHarper appeared in a bit part in the film version of \"Li'l Abner\" (1959), playing a Yokumberry Tonic wife. She broke into television on an episode of the soap opera \"The Doctors\" (\"Zip Guns can Kill\"). She was an extra in \"Love with the Proper Stranger\". She was in the ensemble cast of Paul Sill's Story Theatre and toured with Second City with Schaal, Linda Lavin and others, later appearing in sketches on \"Playboy After Dark\". Harper performed several characters in a comedy LP, \"When You're in Love the Whole World is Jewish\", which included the popular novelty single, \"The Ballad of Irving\", a recitation by TV announcer Frank Gallop. Harper and Schaal moved to Los Angeles in 1968, and co-wrote an episode of \"Love, American Style\".\n\nWhile doing theater in Los Angeles in 1970, Harper was spotted by casting agent Ethel Winant, who called her in to audition for the role of Rhoda Morgenstern on \"The Mary Tyler Moore Show\". She co-starred from 1970–1974 and then starred in the spin-off series, \"Rhoda\" (CBS 1974-1978) in which her character returned to New York.\n\nShe won four Emmy Awards and a Golden Globe Award for her work as Rhoda Morgenstern throughout this period. In 2000, Harper reunited with Moore in \"Mary and Rhoda\", a TV movie that brought their characters together again in later life. The first season of \"Rhoda\" was released on DVD on April 21, 2009, by Shout! Factory.\n\nShe was nominated for a Golden Globe for \"New Star of the Year\" for her role in \"Freebie and The Bean\" (1974). Harper was a guest star on \"The Muppet Show\" in 1976, its first season.\n\nHarper returned to situation comedy in 1986 when she played family matriarch Valerie Hogan on the NBC series \"Valerie\". Following a salary dispute with NBC and production company Lorimar in 1987, Harper was fired from the series at the end of its second season. Harper sued NBC and Lorimar for breach of contract. Her claims against NBC were dismissed, but the jury found that Lorimar had wrongfully fired her and awarded her $1.4 million plus 12.5 percent of the show's profits. The series continued without her with the explanation that her character had died off-screen. In 1987, it was initially renamed \"Valerie's Family\" and then \"The Hogan Family\", as Harper was replaced by actress Sandy Duncan, who played her sister-in-law Sandy Hogan. NBC canceled \"The Hogan Family\" in 1990, but CBS picked-up the series for a final season.\n\nHarper appeared in various television movies, including a performance as Maggie in a production of the Michael Cristofer play \"The Shadow Box\", directed by Paul Newman, and in guest roles on such series as \"Melrose Place\" (1998) and \"Sex and the City\" (1999).\n\nHarper is a member of the Screen Actors Guild (SAG) and ran for president in the 2001 election, losing to Melissa Gilbert. She served on the Hollywood Board of Directors of SAG.\n\nIn 2005 through 2006, Harper portrayed Golda Meir in a US National tour of the one-woman drama \"Golda's Balcony\". A film of this production was released in 2007.\n\nShe played Tallulah Bankhead in the world-premiere production of Matthew Lombardo's \"Looped\" at the Pasadena Playhouse from June 27 to August 3, 2008. The production moved to Arena Stage in Washington, D.C., in 2009. It then briefly ran on Broadway at the Lyceum Theatre, from February 2010 (previews) through April 2010 Harper was to continue in the role on a national tour beginning January 2013, but withdrew from the production due to her health.\n\nShe played Claire Bremmer, aunt of Susan Delfino (Teri Hatcher), on ABC's \"Desperate Housewives\" in 2011.\n\nOn September 4, 2013, Harper was announced as a contestant for the 17th season of \"Dancing with the Stars\". She was partnered with professional dancer Tristan MacManus. Harper and MacManus were voted-off the show on October 7, 2013.\n\nIn the 1970s/80s, Harper was involved in the Women's Liberation Movement and was an advocate of the Equal Rights Amendment. With Dennis Weaver she co-founded L.I.F.E. in 1983, a charity that fed thousands of needy in Los Angeles.\n\nHarper married actor Richard Schaal in 1964. They divorced in 1978. Harper later married Tony Cacciotti in 1987; the couple have a daughter by adoption.\n\nIn 2009, Harper was diagnosed with lung cancer. She announced on March 6, 2013, that tests from a January hospital stay revealed she has leptomeningeal carcinomatosis, a rare condition in which cancer cells spread into the meninges, the membranes surrounding the brain. She said her doctors had given her as little as three months' life expectancy. Although the disease was reported to be incurable, her doctors said they were treating her with chemotherapy in an effort to slow its progress. In April 2014, Harper said she was responding well to the treatment. On July 30, 2015, Harper was hospitalized in Maine after falling unconscious, and taken via medevac to a larger hospital for further treatment. She was later discharged.\n\nIn 2016, Harper continued battling cancer with treatment at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center but was well enough to appear in a short film, \"My Mom and the Girl,\" based on the experiences of director/writer Susie Singer Carter, whose mother has Alzheimer’s disease. In September 2017, she made this comment: \"People are saying, 'She’s on her way to death and quickly'. Now it’s five years instead of three months ... I’m going to fight this. I’m going to see a way.\" At the time, Harper was developing a TV series with Carter.\n\nHarper is a one-time Tony nominee, eight-time Emmy nominee (four wins) and a six-time Golden Globe nominee (one win).\n\n \n"}
{"id": "4157511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4157511", "title": "Victor Lord", "text": "Victor Lord\n\nVictor Lord is a fictional character and patriarch of the Lord family from the American soap opera \"One Life to Live\".\n\nAn original protagonist on the series, Victor is introduced in the first episode as the preeminent mass media magnate of fictional Philadelphia Main Line suburb Llanview, Pennsylvania. Victor was originally and most notably played by actor Ernest Graves. Graves debuted July 15, 1968, and played the role until he left the series and last appeared in March 1974.\n\nSeries creator Agnes Nixon and executive producer Doris Quinlan subsequently recast Victor to Shepperd Strudwick, who first appeared in December 1974 and played the role until the character's initial onscreen death in June 1976.\n\nSeries creator and then-scriptwriter Agnes Nixon originally created the character of Victor Lord based on her father, Harry Eckhardt. She crafted the role in an attempt to understand the reserved, domineering Eckhardt patriarch, an entrepreneur who financially thrived during the Great Depression manufacturing funeral garments.\n\nErnest Graves played the role from show's first episode in 1968 through March 1974. Shepperd Strudwick took over the role in December 1974, playing Victor continually through the character's onscreen death June 16, 1976. Tom O'Rourke briefly stepped into the role as a mirage in 1985, and Les Tremayne played the role of Victor in Heaven in 1987. Bill Moor briefly appeared in the role in 1995. The character was briefly brought back to life 26 years after his original death in January 2003, portrayed by William Stone Mahoney; the resurrection set the soap opera record for the longest span between a character's onscreen death and resurrection. Mahoney went on to play resurrected Victor through his second onscreen death in March 2003, reappearing as a vision for an episode in 2004.\n\nIn the summer of 1968, Victor Lord (Graves) is introduced as the owner of Lord Enterprises founder and publisher of the Philadelphia Main Line newspaper, \"The Banner\", serving the fictional town of Llanview, Pennsylvania. A widower, he is the domineering single father of daughters Victoria or \"Viki\" (originally Gillian Spencer) and Meredith or \"Merrie\" (originally Trish Van Devere). The family inhabits Victor's inherited family estate, Llanfair. His wife, Eugenia Randolph Lord, died while giving birth to Meredith and was, ultimately, unable to produce his desired male heir to his estate (a picture of her hangs above the mantle of the Lord library in early episodes). Victor thereby goes about grooming his eldest child, Viki, to assume the role of running the estate by hiring her as an editor for his newspaper.\n\nVictoria desperately seeks her father's approval and gleefully assumes the role of heiress to the family fortune. Victor eventually grows weary of Victoria's admiration for one of his star reporters, working class executive editor Joe Riley (Lee Patterson). In the early years, Victor is also unhappy at the growing relationship of his younger daughter, Meredith, with upwardly-mobile doctor Larry Wolek (Paul Tulley, Jim Storm). He meddles in the personal relationships of his daughters, causing a rift between him and Victoria. In November 1968, unable to reconcile her feelings for Joe and for her father, Victoria develops multiple-personality disorder, manifesting in an alter-ego, \"Niki Smith,\" and begins dating Vinny Wolek (Antony Ponzini).\n\nAs Victoria recovers from her first bout with multiple personalities, Victor concedes to the relationships of his white collar daughters to working class gentlemen when he uncovers that he had a long-lost son. Victor embarks on a search for the son he had long yearned for. Viki and Joe first marry in December 1969, and Merrie (Lynn Benesch onward) and Larry (Michael Storm onward) in June 1970. A short time later, Joe apparently dies in a car crash while reporting in California, giving Victor the opportunity to set his widowed daughter up with a suitor more to his liking. With a vacant editor-in-chief position available, Victor replaces Joe with promoted upper-crust writer Steve Burke (Bernie Grant).\n\nIn 1971, Victoria (Erika Slezak onward) announces her engagement to Steve, which her father approves of; Victor is, however, unhappy when he discovers his continually frail daughter Meredith is seeking to conceive a child with Larry. Merrie is prescribed bedrest and later gives birth to Victor's first onscreen grandchildren, twins (one which dies a childbirth and the other, a grandson named Daniel). In the summer of 1973, in the midst of Victor's search for his son, Meredith is held hostage in the Llanfair carriage house with brother-in-law Vinny when burglars try to steal Victor's prized art collection. A distressed Victor pleads with the robbers to release Meredith during hostage negotiations with Llanview Police Department Lt. Ed Hall (Al Freeman, Jr.). Meredith is viciously assaulted by the thieves, who are killed by the police, and later dies at Llanview Hospital. Victor is devastated by her death, and he (Graves) leaves Llanview in 1974 in search for his heir-presumptive son.\n\nThe hostage crisis of Meredith and Vinny in 1973 saw the introduction of newly minted Dr. Dorian Cramer (originally, Nancy Pinkerton), who Viki dislikes at first sight. Dorian, at first, dates Llanview Hospital co-worker Dr. Mark Toland (Tom Lee Jones), and in the midst of the romance on-the-job in summer 1974. Dorian is suspected of medical malpractice, and all of the hospital board of directors (except for Viki) vote to fire her. Dorian assumes that Viki's was the deciding vote to fire her and vows revenge. When Victor (Strudwick) reappears in December 1974 and suffers a heart attack, and an unemployed Dorian decides to use him in order to get even with the Lord family.\n\nDorian becomes Victor's personal physician in 1975, and the two quickly elope in May. Soon afterward, Tony Harris (George Reinholt) arrives in Llanview, and Dorian quickly realizes he is Victor's long-sought son. Tony quickly becomes friends with Victor, and when Tony uncovers a diary from Viki and Meredith's mother, Eugenia, and realizing Victor to be his estranged father, to the chagrin of a greedy Dorian. Dorian connives and succeeds in creating a rift between Victor and his new son. When Tony and Victor learn of Dorian's scheme, Tony first confronts Dorian, who denies having done anything wrong. On April 30, 1976, when Victor begins questioning Dorian, the ensuing argument leads Victor to have a debilitating stroke which leaves him unable to speak or dictate alterations to his will. Determined to keep her Victor from speaking to anyone, Dorian brings him home and succeeds from keeping everyone away from him. Soon, Victor suffers a second stroke which sends him back to the hospital. Despite his attempts to speak to Viki, Victor apparently dies in June 16, 1976, and Dorian inherits half of his wealth.\n\nIn 1985, Viki commences celebrations of the 50th anniversary of her father's newspaper. During preparations for the celebration, Viki's goddaughter, Tina (Andrea Evans), happens upon a hidden door in the Llanfair library, leading to a secret room. While in the room, Tina stumbles upon a letter written by Victor addressed to Viki, telling of his affair and brief marriage with Viki's former college friend Irene Manning Clayton and the siring of his daughter Tina. When Tina divulges the revelations, Viki reverts to alter-ego \"Niki Smith\" and Tina, for the following year, embarks on a mission to gain what she believes to be rightfully hers as a member of the Lord family. Recovered, Viki later uncovers in 1988 that she had a daughter, Megan Gordon (Jessica Tuck), while under the hypnosis insisted upon by Victor and delivered by her longtime friend and brother-in-law, Larry. Megan dies of lupus in 1992.\n\nViki engages in an extramarital affair in 1993 with writer Sloan Carpenter (Roy Thinnes), who authors Victor's biography, \"Lord of \"The Banner\"\". While penning the book, Dorian (now, Robin Strasser onward) nervously plots to prevent its publication as Sloan's papers allude to Dorian's complicity in Victor's death, a tale which became a Llanview urban legend in the years following Victor's apparent death. Intrigued by Dorian's intense interest in the book, Viki implores the Llanview Police Department to investigate the circumstances of Victor's death. They comply, leading to the arrest (and conviction, after trial) of Dorian for Victor's murder. When Dorian is sentenced to death by lethal injection, con man David Vickers (Tuc Watkins) arrives in town in 1994, claiming to possess the alleged diary of Viki's late friend and Tina's mother, Irene. Later revealed to be a forgery, the diary claims dead Irene smothered Victor, exonerating Dorian at the eleventh hour. Soon afterward, an actual diary entry from Irene reveals she bore Victor another son, reformed rapist Todd Manning (Roger Howarth).\n\nWhen Viki learns of the initial forgery, Viki, still loyal to her late father, vows to send Dorian back to jail for Victor's death in 1995. Dorian then divulges the source of Viki's multiple personalities—Victor had long molested his eldest daughter Victoria and her repressed memories of the molestation led to the creation of her initial alter-ego, Niki. Victoria then suffered a recurrence of her multiple personality disorder, subsequently releasing several new personalities, who accost Dorian and hold her hostage in Victor's secret room. Upon recovery, Viki comes to terms with her father's inappropriate behaviors.\n\nBecause of the pain she had to endure and dark secrets that were revealed, Viki, who had once worshiped the ground her father walked on and idealized him, now has nothing but contempt, rage, and disgust at Victor's depravity and actions.\n\nFinally in 2003, following the arrival of Viki's long-lost daughter, Natalie (Melissa Archer), an ailing Victor (William Stone Mahoney) resurfaces. It is during this time when Mitch Laurence (Roscoe Born) marries Natalie in a plot spearheaded by Victor to kill his granddaughter and harvest her heart, as he was dying of old age and heart disease. Viki foils Victor and Mitch's plot, saving Natalie from impending death. Victor is again rushed to the hospital. Larry tells Victor's present children, Viki and Todd (Howarth), to say their final goodbyes to their dying father. Victor dies on-screen in March 2003, a month before a shocked Dorian returns to Llanview.\n\nIn 2007, during the funeral of Asa Buchanan, Dorian and Viki are trapped together in Asa's wine cellar. The two argue and Dorian tells Viki that she, not Viki, killed Victor. Viki, flabbergasted, reminds Dorian that neither she nor Dorian had killed Victor because he had returned from the dead a few years before. Dorian then plants a seed of doubt in Viki's mind, responding \"if that really was him.\" During the episode first aired on November 26, 2008, Viki visits her father's grave, and the date of death shown is \"June 16, 1976\", the date of the episode in which Victor originally died. It was never mentioned onscreen whether or not the Victor who appeared in 2003 was an imposter, and the 2003 storyline is not mentioned again in the series, leading to speculation that it was simply retconned out of continuity.\n\nIn 2011, it was revealed by a back-from-the dead Irene that the man known as Todd (Trevor St. John) since May 2003 was in fact his twin, Victor Lord, Jr. (St. John), and the real Todd Manning (Howarth) had been held hostage by her since his disappearance in March 2003. Victor, Jr. is later seemingly killed on the episode that first aired August 31, 2011. On the original finale January 13, 2012, however, Victor, Jr. is revealed to be alive and being held captive by Allison Perkins (Barbara Garrick).\n\nDuring an interview with \"TV Guide Canada\" in February 2009, \"Dorian Lord\" actress Robin Strasser, offered a belated explanation for the recent reversal about Victor's murderer:\n\nThe notion that Dorian is Victor's true murderer is bolstered in the August 16, 2011 episode of \"One Life to Live\". When David Vickers Buchanan mentions that the (albeit forged) entry from Irene Manning's diary cleared Dorian of a murder she did not commit, Dorian comments to herself, \"... or so Viki chooses to believe.\"\n\nFrom the outset, the original portrayal of Victor Lord by actor Ernest Graves was received as ruthless and overbearing, playing a role introduced as the powerful center of the fictional town of Llanview, and of the lives of his daughters Victoria and Meredith. For his portrayal of a dying Victor, actor Shepperd Strudwick earned a Daytime Emmy Award nomination for Lead Actor in a Drama Series in 1976.\n\nLeading series actress and onscreen daughter Erika Slezak reflected on Victor's transformation at the 25th anniversary of \"OLTL\" in 1993 recalling, \"Once, Victor Lord was a paragon of virtue, then producer Paul Rauch said, 'let's turn him into a dirty old man who sleeps with young women and keeps pornography in the basement.'\"\n\n"}
{"id": "38589054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38589054", "title": "Vincent Moscaritolo", "text": "Vincent Moscaritolo\n\nVincent Moscaritolo is an American computer security expert known for work in encryption applications for mobile devices. From 2012 to 2015, he was the Distinguished Member of Technical Staff at Silent Circle, where he designed the original messaging technologies Silent Circle uses. In 2015, he left Silent Circle to co-found 4th-A Technologies, LLC with Robbie Hanson, where they designed the Storm4 secure cloud storage service.\n\nVincent has been involved in the design, invention, and production of system software and network applications for more than 30 years. In addition to producing cryptographic products, his concern about the use of encryption technology by criminal and terrorist actors has compelled him to offer assistance and training to both law enforcement and the intelligence community on cryptographic issues. He has participated at specialized venues such as FBI's Information Technology Study Group, Drug Enforcement Administration's Office of Investigative Technology, InfraGard, and the Cloud Security Alliance.\n\nVincent Moscaritolo's experience includes roles as[Distinguished Member of Technical Staff]] at Silent Circle, Principal Cryptographic Engineer for PGP Corporation, Senior Operating System engineer for Apple Computer, and Principal Software Specialist at Digital Equipment Corporation.\n\nVincent was one of the co founders of Silent Circle, and developer of the secure messaging technology used by Silent Circle / Blackphone. He designed the Silent Circle Instant Messaging Protocol (SCIMP) and was the inventor of Progressive Encryption used by the Silent Text app.\n\nWhile at PGP, he focused on the engineering of cryptographic products on the OS X platform including the cross platform core crypto library, secure file deletion, virtual disk client, network kernel engine redirection module. He was also responsible for obtaining and maintaining NIST FIPS-140 validation for PGP cryptographic core.\n\nAt Apple, he was notable for founding the Mac-Crypto Conference, where key Mac developers, industry leaders and legends met to discuss topics ranging from Cryptosystems, Digital Cash and Security issues to feedback sessions where developers were able to directly discuss their requirements with Apple engineers. He was also involved in the original Cypherpunk group.\n\nIn the mid 1980s he founded a startup called DataVox, which produced BankTalk, one of the first voice response systems for the financial marketplace. This included a user-tailorable audio menu system that provided general information, balance, account transactions and was able to communicate with bank mainframes over the existing ATM network.\n\nMoscaritolo published an article about the S4 open-source crypto library and Verifying Authenticity of Public Keys.\nMoscaritolo designed the Silent Circle Instant Messaging Protocol (SCIMP), which uses a new progressive encryption technology.\n\nOther cryptographic projects include the development of a public key authentication extension for file servers, authoring of IETF draft for a secure authorization protocol for distributed systems, development of code and technotes for PGP cryptographic toolkit, and a number of presentations and tutorials on modern cryptosystems and security. He was also a contributor to the Vanish, Self destructing Data project at University of Washington\n\nHe holds patents related to cryptographic techniques and designs.\n\n\"If we can just pass a few more laws, we could all be criminals!\"\n\nAs an avid outdoorsman, Vincent usually spends his weekends hiking or snowshoeing in the deep woods of Southern Oregon with his daughter and son. He has background on a variety of fields, including motorcycle racing, a number of martial arts, and combat first aid.\n\n"}
{"id": "1422997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1422997", "title": "Warder Clyde Allee", "text": "Warder Clyde Allee\n\nWarder Clyde Allee (June 5, 1885 – March 18, 1955) was an American ecologist. He is recognized to be one of the great pioneers of American ecology. As an accomplished zoologist and ecologist, Allee was best known and recognized for his research on social behavior, aggregations and distributions of animals in aquatic as well as terrestrial environments. Allee attended Earlham College and upon his graduation in 1908, pursued advanced studies at the University of Chicago where he received his PhD and graduated summa cum laude in 1912. Allee’s most significant research occurred during his time at the University of Chicago and at the Marine Biological Laboratory at Woods Hole in Massachusetts. His research findings led to many publications, with the most notable being \"Principles of Animal Ecology\" and \"Animal Aggregations\". Allee was married to author Marjorie Hill Allee and remained active in the field of biology until his death in 1955 at the age of 70.\n\nWarder Clyde Allee was born on June 5, 1885, on a farm in Bloomingdale, Indiana. His father, John Wesley Allee, was orphaned as a child and grew up at the homes of various relatives in the Bloomingdale region. Clyde Allee attended a one-room country school and led his class in scholarship. At Bloomingdale Academy he was again at the head of his graduating class and the winner of the oratorical contest. At the age of seventeen, he taught country school for a year and then the fifth and sixth grades in the Bloomingdale elementary school for another year. Then, at nineteen, he began his first year at Earlham College. He was a Methodist, and joined the Society of Friends to marry Marjorie Hill, whose Quaker ancestry extended back into the seventeenth century. His strong Quaker beliefs would play a large role in his research later in his academic and professional career.\n\nFamily background combined with the Quaker influence at Earlham College contributed to the Quaker mold in which Allee was cast. In 1912, he confirmed himself as a member of the Society of Friends in order to marry Marjorie Hill. Allee met Marjorie when she was a freshman at Earlham College while Allee was a senior. Marjorie was most interested in English Literature and Writing and would go on to help her husband in his books and scientific papers. Specifically, she served as a critic, collaborator, and joint author to the works of her husband. Eventually, she established herself as an author, with a notable series of novels for girls.\n\nAllee was born in Bloomingdale, Indiana. He received the S.B. degree from Earlham College in 1908, and the S.M. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Chicago in 1910 and 1912, where he graduated summa cum laude. He was a student of Victor Ernest Shelford and there imbibed the ideas of ecological succession. Allee worked as an assistant professor in Zoology from 1910 to 1912. Between 1912 and 1921 he taught at the University of Illinois, Williams College, University of Oklahoma, Lake Forest College, and the Marine Biological Laboratory at Woods Hole, Massachusetts. He returned to the University of Chicago in 1921 as an assistant professor of zoology and was promoted to professor in 1928. In addition, he served as dean in the College of Arts, Literature, and Science (1924–1926) and secretary of the Department of Zoology (1927–1934). After retirement in 1950, he worked at the University of Florida at Gainesville, where he was head professor of biology until his death in March 1955.\n\nAllee was strongly influenced by Frank R. Lillie, head of the Department of Zoology at the University of Chicago and one of the founders of the Marine Biological Laboratory in Woods Hole, MA. Allee gained interest in the interactions and patterns of the distribution of marine mammals during his time as an instructor at the Marine Biological Laboratory at Woods Hole in Massachusetts from 1914 to 1921.\n\nIn 1923, Allee began to write a series of papers entitled, Animal Aggregations. Eight years later, he published his findings in a book under the same name. The results of Clyde Allee’s research demonstrated the existence of an unconscious drive within species for fellow individuals of the same species. This research helped to prove that under crowding was detrimental to some animals. Allee’s research also helped to describe protocooperation, where two species interact with one another in a beneficial way that is not essential to the survival of either organism. It should also be noted that Allee’s biological basis of democracy arrived at a time when the future of world politics and human kind’s morality were in question themselves. As a Quaker, Allee was committed to world peace and this commitment anteceded his theory of sociality. Allee’s Quaker beliefs led to the development of his dedication to show how cooperation is essential in the natural world. This led to the development of the Allee effect.\n\nAllee dedicated his life to researching the benefits of organisms acting in a group rather than as individuals. Through observing groups of organisms, Allee discovered that cooperation is both beneficial and essential in nature. The Allee effect describes the positive correlation between population density and individual fitness of a population or species.\n\nAllee's research on social aggregations and the evolution of cooperation coincided with his social activism, religious beliefs, and opposition to war. Raised as a Quaker, Allee publicly renounced war, which made him a target of harsh criticism and persecution. In the 1940s, Allee argued that his research on the social behaviors of animals provided clear evidence against a biological basis for war. Specifically, he believed that his theory on the sociality of organisms based on cooperation among individuals proved that war was not a natural occurrence. According to Gregg Mitman, Allee saw ecologists as \"social healers\" who were able to provide a naturalistic foundation for ethics through their research.\n\nA spinal tumor caused paralysis, and Allee used a wheelchair after 1935. He nevertheless maintained a full schedule of teaching, research and writing. Allee continued to spend summers at the Marine Biological Laboratory at Woods Hole, and served as a trustee from 1932 to 1955. Having been on the editorial board of Physiological Zoology, a journal published by the University of Chicago Press, since its founding in 1928, Allee took over as managing editor in 1937 and remained in that position until his death. He also chaired the Committee on the Ecology of Animal Populations of the National Research Council which was established in 1941 to solicit and administer funds for research projects in the field. He was elected a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1950.\n\nAllee's dedication to research resulted in more than 200 papers and over a dozen books, including \"Animal Aggregations: A Study in General Sociology\" (1931), \"Animal Life and Social Growth\" (1932), \"The Social Life of Animals\" (1938), \"Principles of Animal Ecology\", co-authored by Alfred E. Emerson, Orlando Park, Thomas Park, and Karl P. Schmidt (1949), and \"Cooperation among Animals, with Human Implications\" (1951).\n\nMany biologists and historians believe that Allee's reputation was diminished by the work of another ecologist, George C. Williams. Williams's work, Adaptation and Natural Selection (1996), refutes Allee's research on group cooperation by stressing the importance of individual selection and providing samples that invalidated the idea of group selection. However, the research and legacy of Allee is still recognized and discussed today as many scientists remain interested in the principles behind the Allee effect. In 1973, the Animal Behavior Society began to offer the W.C. Allee Award for the best presentation of an ethological work of research by a student in a juried competition held at their annual meeting.\n\nAllee died in Gainesville, Florida, aged 69, in 1955.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5516301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5516301", "title": "Wendy Turner Webster", "text": "Wendy Turner Webster\n\nWendy Turner-Webster (born Wendy Turner, 5 June 1967) is an English journalist, television presenter and animal welfare campaigner.\n\nBorn 5 June 1967 in Stoke-on-Trent, Staffordshire, Turner-Webster had two sisters, presenter Anthea Turner and Ruth who had spina bifida and died at the age of 15. Turner-Webster grew up in Norton le Moors, Staffordshire, and was educated at St Dominic’s Independent Junior School at Hartshill.\n\nTurner-Webster started her career at Signal Radio, writing, producing and presenting on-air features including film, travel and book reviews. She also wrote for magazines including OK!. A part-time actress, while appearing in the pantomime \"Cinderella,\" she was spotted by a producer from the UK cable channel \"L!VE TV.\" Moving to London, she became a news reporter covering sports and fashion. She then hosted her own shows \"Videobox\" and the psychic phone-in \"Revelations with Nina.\"\n\nTurner-Webster was chosen to take over hosting Channel 4’s \"Absolutely Animals\" from Dani Behr; the show was a forerunner to \"Pet Rescue\" which Turner-Webster hosted for 7 years. Turner-Webster's other TV projects include BBC One's \"Your Kids Are In Charge\", presented with sister Anthea. She has also presented several episodes of \"The Last Word\" for Central Television, and the BBC documentary about domestic violence, \"Hitting Home.\"\n\nTurner-Webster does not eat or wear animal products and is Patron of the Vegan Society, Viva! and the Vegetarian Society. In 2001, Turner-Webster wrote on behalf of PETA to the Duke of Kent as president of the Scout Association, requesting that they retire the angling badge on grounds of cruelty to animals. The proposal was rejected. In 2006, she launched an on-line footwear company, \"Secret Goddess\", which specialised in ultra glamorous boots and shoes of non-animal origin.\n\nIn November 2010, Wendy became the patron of Chancepixies Animal Rescue, a charity dedicated to educating, rescuing and taking action to prevent dogs in the UK from finding themselves unwanted, abused and killed.\n\nTurner-Webster's first marriage in her early 20s fell apart after five years due to issues of domestic violence. She now speaks on domestic violence issues on behalf of various causes.\n\nWhilst playing Maid Marian in pantomime, Turner-Webster met and began a relationship with actor Gary Webster, who starred in \"Family Affairs.\" They married in 1999 and have two sons, Jack and Freddie. The family lives in Surrey.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "393639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=393639", "title": "Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan", "text": "Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan\n\nSheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan (); 6 May 1918 – 2 November 2004) was the Ruler of Abu Dhabi for 38 years (6 August 1966 – 2 November 2004). He is the founding father and the principal driving force behind the formation of the United Arab Emirates , becoming the Union's first President (), a post which he held for a period of almost 33 years (1971 until his death in 2004). He is popularly referred to in the UAE as the Father of the Nation.\n\nZayed was the youngest of four sons of Sheikh Sultan bin Khalifa Al Nahyan. His father was the ruler of Abu Dhabi from 1922 until his assassination in 1926. Zayed was the youngest of his four brothers. His eldest brother, Sheikh Shakhbut bin Sultan Al Nahyan, became ruler of Abu Dhabi after their uncle, Saqr bin Zayed Al Nahyan, was also assassinated in 1928. His mother was Sheikha Salama bint Butti. She extracted a promise from her sons not to use violence against each other, a promise which they kept. Sheikh Zayed was named after his grandfather, Sheikh Zayed bin Khalifa Al Nahyan (\"Zayed the Great\"), who ruled the emirate from 1855 to 1909. At the time of Sheikh Zayed's birth, the sheikhdom of Abu Dhabi was one of seven Trucial States along the lower coast of the Persian Gulf He also showed interest in falconry.\n\nIt is normally held that he was born at Qasr al-Hosn in Abu Dhabi, with some sources stating that he was born in Al Ain. He is at least known to have moved from Abu Dhabi to Al Ain in 1927, after the assassination of his father. As Zayed was growing up in Al-Ain, there were no modern schools anywhere along the coast. He only received a basic instruction in the principles of Islam, and lived in the desert with Bedouin tribesmen, familiarising himself with the life of the people, their traditional skills and their ability to survive under the harsh climatic conditions.\n\nZayed was appointed the governor of the Eastern Region of Abu Dhabi in 1946, and was based in the Muwaiji fort in Al Ain. At this time, the area was poor and prone to outbreaks of disease. When parties from Petroleum Development (Trucial Coast) began exploring for oil in the area, Zayed assisted them.\n\nIn 1952, a small Saudi Arabian force led by Turki bin Abdullah al-Otaishan occupied the village of Hamasa in the Buraimi Oasis (the 'Buraimi Dispute'). Zayed was prominent in his opposition to Saudi territorial claims and reportedly rejected a bribe of about £30 million to allow Aramco to explore for oil in the disputed territory. As part of this dispute, Zayed and his brother Hazza attended the Buraimi arbitration tribunal in Geneva in September 1955 and gave evidence to tribunal members. When the tribunal was abandoned amid allegations of Saudi bribery, the British initiated the reoccupation of the Buraimi Oasis through a local military force, the Trucial Oman Levies. A period of stability followed during which Zayed helped to develop the region and took a particular interest in the restoration of the \"falaj\" system, a network of water channels which kept the plantations of the Buraimi Oasis irrigated and fertile.\n\nThe discovery of oil in 1958, and the start of oil exports in 1962, led to frustration among members of the ruling family about the lack of progress under Sheikh Shakhbut’s rule. On 6 August 1966, Shakhbut was deposed in a bloodless palace coup. The move to replace Shakhbut with Zayed had the unanimous backing of the Al Nahyan family. The news was conveyed to Shakhbut by British Acting Resident Glen Balfour-Paul who added the support of the British to the consensus of the family. Shakhbut finally accepted the decision and, with the Trucial Oman Scouts providing safe transport, left for Bahrain. He subsequently lived in Korramshahr, Iran before returning to live in Buraimi.\n\nIn the late 1960s, Zayed hired Dr. Katsuhiko Takahashi, a Japanese architect, to design and plan the city.\n\nBetween 8–11 January 1968, the UK's Foreign Office Minister Goronwy Roberts visited the Trucial States and announced to its shocked rulers that the United Kingdom would abrogate its treaties with them and intended to withdraw from the area. In a seminal meeting on 18 February 1968 at a desert highland on the border between Dubai and Abu Dhabi, Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Rashid bin Saeed Al Maktoum of Dubai shook hands on the principle of founding a Federation and attempting to invite other trucial rulers to join in order that a viable nation be formed in the wake of the British withdrawal.\n\nIn 1971, after occasionally difficult negotiations with the other six rulers of the Trucial States, the United Arab Emirates was formed. Zayed was appointed to the presidency of the UAE in 1971 and was reappointed on four more occasions: 1976, 1981, 1986, and 1991.\n\nIn 1974, Zayed apparently settled the outstanding border dispute with Saudi Arabia by the Treaty of Jeddah by which Saudi Arabia received the output of the Shaybah oilfield and access to the lower Persian Gulf in return for recognising the UAE.\n\nSheikh Zayed was determined to unite the Emirates into federation. His calls for cooperation extended across the Persian Gulf to Iran. He advocated dialogue as the means to settle the row with Tehran over three strategic Persian Gulf islands which Iran seized from the (future) UAE Emirate of Sharjah in 1971. The islands remain in Iranian hands, despite over three decades of UAE diplomatic initiatives.\n\nHe was considered a relatively liberal ruler, and permitted private media. However, they were expected to practice self-censorship and avoid criticism of Zayed or the ruling families. Freedom of worship was permitted, and to a certain extent allowances were made for expatriate cultures, but this did not always sit comfortably in the eyes of the wider Arab world with Zayed's role as a Muslim head of state.\n\nZayed did not shy away from controversy when it came to expressing his opinions on current events in the Arab world. Troubled by the suffering of Iraqi civilians, he took the lead in calling for the lifting of economic sanctions on Iraq imposed by the United Nations in the aftermath of the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait in 1990, despite Kuwaiti displeasure and opposition.\n\nZayed was considered one of the wealthiest men in the world. A \"Forbes\" estimate put his fortune at around US$20 billion in 2004. The source of this wealth could be almost exclusively attributed to the immense oil wealth of Abu Dhabi and the Emirates, which sit on a pool of a tenth of the world's proven oil reserves. In 1988, he purchased, for £5m, Tittenhurst Park at Sunninghill, Berkshire as his English home.\n\nAt the time the British withdrew from the Persian Gulf in 1971, Zayed oversaw the establishment of the Abu Dhabi Fund for Arab Economic Development; some of its oil riches were channeled to some forty less fortunate Islamic nations in Asia and Africa during the decades that followed.\n\nUsing the country's enormous oil revenues, Zayed built institutions such as hospitals, schools and universities and made it possible for UAE citizens to enjoy free access to them.\n\nWhen asked by \"The New York Times\" in April 1997 why there is no elected legislature, Zayed replied, Why should we abandon a system that satisfies our people in order to introduce a system that seems to engender dissent and confrontation? Our system of government is based upon our religion and that is what our people want. Should they seek alternatives, we are ready to listen to them.\nWe have always said that our people should voice their demands openly. We are all in the same boat, and they are both the captain and the crew. Our doors are open for any opinion to be expressed, and this well known by all our citizens. It is our deep conviction that Allah has created people free, and has prescribed that each individual must enjoy freedom of choice. No one should act as if they own others.\nThose in the position of leadership should deal with their subjects with compassion and understanding, because this is the duty enjoined upon them by Allah, who enjoins upon us to treat all living creatures with dignity. How can there be anything less for mankind, created as Allah's successors on earth? Our system of government does not derive its authority from man, but is enshrined in our religion and is based on = Allah's Book, the Quran. What need have we of what others have conjured up? Its teachings are eternal and complete, while the systems conjured up by man are transitory and incomplete.\n\nLand was also often distributed gratis. However, while this policy benefited many landless families, enormously wealthy clans and individuals were given free land grants in proportion to their status and influence with the royal family. His majlis (a traditional Arab consultation council) was open to the public. He allowed non-Muslim religious buildings, such as churches and a temple, to be built. Zayed was also in favour of certain rights for women, such as access to education and women's labour-rights, within traditional parameters. His views regarding women's rights were considerably more liberal than his counterparts in the GCC nations.\n\nAfter floods ravaged Yemen's Ma'rib Governorate in 1982, Zayed financed the construction of the current dam of Ma'rib in 1984. This was to replace the historical one that was damaged in antiquity, and support the country's agriculture and economy. The area of Ma'rib is reportedly from where his ancestors migrated to what is now the UAE.\n\nControversy over the opinions of the Zayed Centre caused the Harvard Divinity School to return Sheikh Zayed's $2.5 million gift to the institution in 2000 as \"tainted money.\" Former United States president Jimmy Carter accepted the Zayed International Prize for the Environment in 2001. The award included a monetary prize of $500,000 from the Zayed Centre, and Carter stated in his acceptance speech that the award carried extra significance to him, since it was named after his personal friend.\n\nThere was similar controversy when the London School of Economics accepted a large donation by the Zayed Centre, to build a new lecture theatre in the New Academic Building in 2008. Despite student protests, the gift was accepted with the Sheik Zayed Theatre being the second largest lecture hall on the campus.\n\nHarvard's equivocation, the Carter controversy, and the engendering negative publicity, prompted Sheikh Zayed to shut down the centre in August 2003, stating that the Zayed Centre \"had engaged in a discourse that starkly contradicted the principles of interfaith tolerance.\"\n\nIn 1989, while he was hospitalized and undergoing a series of tests, the people of the UAE wrote him a personal thank-you letter. On 2 November 2004, Zayed died at the age of 86. He was buried in the courtyard of the new Sheikh Zayed Mosque in Abu Dhabi. His eldest son, Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, took an increasing role in government beginning in the 1980s. Directly after his father's death, he became the Ruler of Abu Dhabi, and was ratified as the President of the United Arab Emirates by his fellow rulers in the Supreme Council.\n\n\nIn 2018, a year dedicated in the UAE to the celebration of Zayed's life and legacy, the Founder's Memorial was opened in Abu Dhabi. The memorial consists of an open Heritage Garden and Sanctuary Garden at the centre of which is a cubic pavilion housing The Constellation, an artwork dedicated to Zayed's memory.\n\nZayed bin Sultan married seven times. His children are as follows:\n\n"}
