{"id": "20711649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20711649", "title": "100 Classic Book Collection", "text": "100 Classic Book Collection\n\n100 Classic Book Collection, known in North America as 100 Classic Books, is an e-book collection developed by Genius Sonority and published by Nintendo, which was released for the Nintendo DS handheld video game console. First released in Europe in December 2008, it was later released in Australia in January 2009, and in North America in June 2010. The game includes one hundred public domain works of literature.\n\nGenius Sonority had previously released a similar collection of books in Japan, under the title \"DS Bungaku Zenshuu\", in October 2007. A smaller version of the collection consisting of 20 books, under the title \"Chotto DS Bungaku Zenshu: Sekai no Bungaku 20\", was released in Japan as a downloadable DSiWare application in February 2009.\n\n\"100 Classic Book Collection\" features one hundred books stored into the DS cartridge. Several of the works included are \"Othello\" by William Shakespeare, \"Oliver Twist\" by Charles Dickens, and \"The Phantom of the Opera\" by Gaston Leroux. Additional free books were available to download via Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection until the discontinuation of the service on May 20, 2014.\n\nThe player is required to hold the DS like a book and is able to adjust the text size and change background music to listen to while reading. A bookmark feature allows the player to mark their place in the book, as well as resume from that point on restart of the game. The game offers a search feature for books in a number of different ways, including genre, author, and length. Also, players can access introductions for the books, and read about the authors themselves. An in-game quiz features asks players personality-related questions and recommends certain novels depending on the answers given. Players can also send \"trial versions\" of the game to other DS users via the local Wi-Fi.\n\n\"100 Classic Book Collection\" debuted on UK sales charts at number 17 during its week of release, and moved up to number 8 the following week.\n\nThe content was well received but critics felt the DS was not a suitable platform. Prior to the advent of Kindle, The Guardian newspaper reviewed the game as part of the \"minority fad\" of e-readers, declaring it bland and impersonal but good value for money. Eurogamer magazine criticised Nintendo for only using texts that were out of copyright and for not spending the extra for modern classics. It also found the text difficult to read due to the size of the screen, with unhelpful hyphenations, a low word number per page and distracting animations. The Telegraph newspaper agreed that the game offered good value for money but also criticised the size of the screen.\n"}
{"id": "17326791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17326791", "title": "Alrafidain University College", "text": "Alrafidain University College\n\nAl Rafidain University College Al-Rafidain College is a private academic institution in higher education of public interest established IN 23/11/1988. It's founded by The Iraqi Society for Statistical Sciences. The actual work study started in 1988/1989 and is considered one of the oldest private academic colleges in Iraq. The college awards bachelor's degrees in various scientific disciplines and is subject to the laws, regulations, instructions and regulations of the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research through direct scientific and educational supervision on its various activities. Granted by the college recognized by that ministry.\nAl-Rafidain University currently includes thirteen medical, engineering and scientific departments. The duration of the study in each stage is four years. The student is awarded a bachelor's degree in engineering and science in his specialization, except for the Department of Dentistry and Pharmacy. The academic system in the college is an annual system consisting of two semesters except for the pharmacy department, which apply the semester system. The certificates granted to the student are approved by the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research and other relevant ministries for the purposes of recruitment and studies. The university has a number of different faculties, including 12 medical labs, 25 engineering and scientific laboratories, as well as 60 classrooms and 40 halls in another building. The college also has artistic, cultural and poetry activities as well as annual scientific conferences and seminars as well as sports activities.\n\nCollege now has three buildings, the main building located in Palestine Avenue / Baghdad distract , which contains the Deanship of the College and some engineering and scientific departments such as communications engineering and computer technology engineering, the second building located in AL- Banook Avenue / Baghdad district which contains other engineering and scientific departments such as cooling and air conditioning engineering, and the building of the dental hospital in the Cairo Avenue / Baghdad .\n\nThe College includes study in:\n\nThe College Council (the highest scientific and administrative authority in the College) is formed according to the Iraqi Universities and Colleges Law. It consist of the dean of the college, the members of the heads of scientific departments, the dean's assistant and a representative of the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research who meets the requirements of the college member and one of the specialized experts chosen by the Council The College is for a period of two years and is renewable once and one representative from the institution of the university who meets the requirements of the faculty. The College Council may summon, when necessary, to attend its sessions, the opinion of which is to use its competency and expertise and has no right to vote.\nThe College Council shall undertake the implementation of the College's scientific and educational policy and shall approve the curriculum and vocabulary of the academic subjects and the granting of certificates and degrees according to the laws and regulations in force. It will organize the scientific research and provide its requirements and the use of lecturers from inside and outside the country\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20609575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20609575", "title": "Antoinette Miggiani", "text": "Antoinette Miggiani\n\nAntoinette Miggiani (born 5 September 1937) is a Maltese operatic soprano and singing teacher.\n\nAntoinette Miggiani was born in Sliema, Malta. After studying piano and voice in her native country, she won a British Council scholarship to study at London's Royal Academy of Music in 1958. She was under contract to the Royal Opera House, Covent Garden for the 1961/62 seasons following her First Prize award at the Royal Liverpool Philharmonic Society International Singers' Competition. During the 1960s, she sang in London, France, Germany, and Italy (where she gave several recitals for Italian Radio). She returned several times to Malta where she sang at the Teatru Manoel as Leonora in \"La forza del destino\" (1963) and Santuzza in \"Cavalleria rusticana\" (1965), as well as a Royal Gala Performance at the theatre for Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip (1967). In 1968 she undertook a tour of the United States, where she sang both in recital and on the opera stage, including performances as Maddalena in \"Andrea Chénier\" at Seattle Opera with Franco Corelli in the title role.\n\nHer international career was cut short in 1970, when her parents became ill and she returned permanently to Malta to care for them. However, she continued to sing in Malta in lieder recitals and concerts, and as a soloist in performances of sacred music, including the Verdi, Mozart, Elgar, and Rossini \"Requiems\"; Antonín Dvořák's \"Stabat Mater\"; and Gounod's \"Messe solennelle Sainte-Cécile\". She also sang in operas at the Teatru Manoel, including the title role of Carmelo Pace's \"Ipogeana\" in its 1976 world premiere. For many years Miggiani has been a distinguished voice teacher in Malta. Amongst her former pupils are the soprano Lydia Caruana and baritone Lino Attard. On 13 December 1991, she was awarded her country's Medal for Service to the Republic (Midalja għall-Qadi tar-Repubblika).\n"}
{"id": "36269462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36269462", "title": "Antonio Buehler", "text": "Antonio Buehler\n\nAntonio Buehler is an American educator, entrepreneur, and activist known for his work on police accountability and his pursuit of a more widely recognized constitutional right to photograph, film and document the public activities of police. In 2012, Buehler was arrested in Austin, Texas, for video-recording police after he allegedly witnessed a woman being abused by officers. After the arrest, Buehler co-founded the Peaceful Streets Project, an organization that trains the public to record police activity. Buehler has been arrested a total of six times, has had twelve criminal charges filed against him, and has had dozens of criminal investigations initiated against him.\n\nAntonio Buehler was born in Fayetteville, North Carolina in 1977. He attended Pottsville Area High School in Pottsville, Pennsylvania where he was an All-Anthracite football player. Antonio graduated from the United States Military Academy at West Point and later from the Stanford Graduate School of Business and the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Buehler also served in the Iraq War.\n\nBuehler has given numerous talks on college admissions, alternative education, homeschooling and other education topics at schools, libraries, and conferences across the country.\n\nIn 2014, Buehler launched Abrome. Initially, Abrome was an online education service, but as of 2016 it is now an alternative, progressive school in Austin, TX, that operates free of teachers, classrooms, testing, homework, or grades. Abrome claims to have gotten approximately 50% of their clients into Harvard and/or Stanford Universities, and 75% of their clients into a top ten college.\n\nBuehler sits on the Educational Choices Advisory Council for the Our America Initiative that is associated with former New Mexico Governor Gary Johnson.\n\nIn the early hours of New Year’s Day 2012, Buehler, the designated driver that night, pulled into a 7-11 in Austin, TX for gas. While fueling up, he and his passenger observed a DWI stop in progress, with a woman in high heels, the driver of the automobile, being subjected to a field sobriety test being conducted by an Austin police officer; according to Buehler, they then heard a female screaming and turned in time to see officer Robert Snider forcefully pulling another female from the passenger side of the vehicle, throwing her to the ground and pinning her arms behind her back. Buehler yelled out to the police, asking them why they were assaulting her. After twisting her arms behind her back, the officers arrested her. Officer Patrick Oborski then approached Buehler, pushed him forcefully several times in the chest, and arrested him. Oborski later claimed Buehler spat on him, a felony charge that carries up to a 10-year prison sentence. Witness video evidence does not show Buehler spitting, Oborski did not wipe his face, and Austin Police Department (APD) spokesman Corporal Hipolito admitted to KEYE news that he could not see Buehler spitting on the officer.\nAfter an online appeal by Buehler to find witnesses to the event, several witnesses came forward and a videorecording of the incident surfaced.\nAPD has yet to release the dashcam videos from Oborski or Snider's vehicles to the public. Nearly 8,200 people have joined the Free Antonio Buehler Facebook page, with supporters flyering the city and organizing rallies in support of Buehler, and posting daily stories of American and international police abuse.\n\nDespite a half dozen witnesses, two videos and audio evidence of what happened on New Year's Day, the District Attorney did not convene a grand jury in 2012. His grand jury date was then postponed numerous times. The grand jury finally convened on March 5, 6 and 7, 2013. Four weeks later, the District Attorney finally informed the public that the grand jury failed to indict Antonio Buehler on any of the crimes with which he was charged.\n\nThey instead indicted him on four Class C misdemeanors. Three for \"failure to obey a lawful order\" related to his New Year's Day incident, and two follow on arrests. The fourth indictment was for \"interfering\" in an incident in which he was never arrested. The grand jury also indicted Norma Pizana for resisting arrest. Pizana is the woman that Buehler felt was being abused on New Year's Day 2012.\n\nOctober 29, 2014, after an unprecedented four-day Class C Misdemeanor trial that spanned a full calendar week, Buehler was acquitted of charges and found not guilty of failing to comply with the order of a police officer on New Year’s Day 2012.\" The trial was unique not only in its duration, but also in the resources invested into it by the state; the state had eight prosecutors in the courtroom and over a dozen police officers.\n\nOn December 31, 2013, Buehler, while awaiting trial, sued the Austin Police Department, Police Chief Art Acevedo, Officer Patrick Oborski, Officer Robert Snider, SGT Adam Johnson and Officer Justin Berry for allegedly violating his civil rights beginning with his January 1, 2012 arrest and two additional arrests which occurred on August 26 and September 21, 2012.\n\nOn June 2, 2014 the National Press Photographers Association filed an Amicus Brief in support of Buehler's civil lawsuit.\n\nOn July 24, 2014, Federal Judge Mark Lane denied motions by the City of Austin to dismiss the case, finding that private citizens have the right to record officers in public places as they perform their official duties. Lane also said the officers were not personally immune from allegations that they had arrested and searched him without probable cause.\n\nOn February 20, 2015, Judge Mark Lane dismissed the lawsuit based on a Fifth Circuit precedent which stated that an indicted defendant lost their standing to sue. In response to the dismissal, Buehler stated, “We have waited three years for justice, and we are willing to wait even longer to expose APD for the crime they have covered up.” He also noted that the Fifth Circuit precedent provided an incentive for prosecutors to protect corrupt and criminal law enforcement officers through the simple expedient of indicting an otherwise innocent defendant. Buehler and his attorney appealed the decision on February 25, 2015.\n\nOn June 2, 2016, the Fifth Circuit Court in New Orleans upheld Judge Mark Lane's decision to dismiss Buehler's lawsuit against the City of Austin and four Austin Police officers.\n\nOn December 2, 2016, Buehler filed a petition for a writ of certiorari to have the case heard by the Supreme Court of the United States.\n\nOn January 4, 2017, the National Association for Public Defense, Cato Institute, National Press Photographers Association, and five media organizations filed Amicus briefs in support of Buehler's petition to the Supreme Court.\n\nOn February 2, 2017, SCOTUSblog, the leading Supreme Court news site, listed Buehler's lawsuit as the Petition of the Day.\n\nThe Supreme Court ultimately did not grant a writ of certiorari for Buehler's suit.\n\nOn August 2, 2017, Buehler sued the City of Austin and Austin Police Department employees Randy Dear, Aljoe Garibay, Quint Sebek, Wesley Devries, John Leo Coffey, Monika McCoy, Ryan Adam, Allen Hicks, and Reginald Parker for allegedly violating his civil rights and stemming from his August 2, 2015 arrest in downtown Austin.\n\nIn the months following the incident, a group of activists from a range of backgrounds joined Buehler to start the Peaceful Streets Project, an all-volunteer, nonpartisan, grassroots effort for police accountability. The group holds free community trainings on knowing your rights during police encounters, and held a day-long Police Accountability Summit in Austin, TX on July 14, 2012 where they handed out 100 handheld video-cameras to trained activists who now actively film police encounters with residents of Austin. The Peaceful Streets Project has also stepped up efforts to work with and ally with other community organizations, and have participated in protests in solidarity with victims of police abuse nationally. The Peaceful Streets Project has a \"Strong\" social media presence with over 5,100 YouTube subscribers, over 4,300 followers on Twitter and over 20,400 likes on Facebook.\n\nBuehler's efforts to expose what he considers to be police violence and the inherent corruption of the justice system have resulted in numerous bloggers taking up his cause. In addition, numerous cities around the country have reached out to Buehler and the Peaceful Streets Project looking to set up local franchises. Peaceful Streets Project chapters now exist in nearly a dozen cities to include Houston, Dallas-Fort Worth, New York City, Manchester, Honolulu, San Antonio and Eunice, LA.\n\nBuehler has continued to wage a public fight against his criminal charges. He has claimed that the city and the Austin Police Department are intentionally engaged in a cover-up and that corruption runs throughout the city government and the police department.\n\nOn June 24, 2013, Fox 7 ran a piece on Antonio Buehler wherein the President of the Austin Police Association alluded to possible violence in the future should Buehler continue to escalate his cop watching tactics. The Peaceful Streets Project responded by organizing several more public cop watch events, Know Your Rights Trainings and a national police accountability summit in Austin on August 17, 2013.\n\nOn April 12, 2014, Buehler spoke about the Peaceful Streets Project and police abuse at a TEDx event at Harvard.\n\nOn January 22, 2015, CBS News highlighted Antonio Buehler and the Peaceful Streets Project as one of two copwatch groups patrolling in Texas.\n\nOn May 9, 2015, Reveal from The Center for Investigative Reporting and The Texas Tribune released collaborative pieces on the direct action tactic of Filming the Police, with a focus on the Peaceful Streets Project.\n\nOn August 20, 2015, CityLab from The Atlantic released a piece centered on Antonio Buehler and the Peaceful Streets Project about the risks of filming the police, despite the legality of doing so.\n\nOn November 25, 2015, Playboy did a longform article on cop watching, which opened and closed with Antonio Buehler and the Peaceful Streets Project.\n\nOn February 26, 2016, Pivot.TV's Truth and Power docuseries built an episode around Buehler's history and work with the Peaceful Streets Project.\n\nOn March 10, 2016, Showtime's DarkNet docuseries featured Buehler and the Peaceful Streets Project.\n\nIn December, 2017, The Progressive featured Buehler and his work with the Peaceful Streets Project and Abrome in a three-page feature.\n\nIn the early morning hours of August 24, 2012, while cop watching with members of the Peaceful Streets Project in downtown Austin, Buehler recorded an undercover officer, Justin Berry, helping uniformed police officers arrest women for underage drinking. Although Buehler wasn't arrested for filming Berry, he was later indicted on a Class C Misdemeanor charge of \"interference with public duties.\" Buehler was scheduled to stand trial on January 6, 2015. On January 2, 2015, the City of Austin requested the trial judge dismiss all charges against Buehler.\n\nIn the early morning hours of August 26, 2012, while cop watching with members of the Peaceful Streets Project in downtown Austin, Buehler was arrested by Officer Justin Berry for \"interfering with public duties\" while recording an arrest. He was released about 17 hours later. Austin Police Department claims that he refused to back away from an arrest, causing the suspect of the arrest to become uncontrollable. Buehler claims that APD was targeting him. APD refused to return Buehler's camera to him after the incident, claiming that it was of evidentiary value. Another member of the Peaceful Streets Project was able to videorecord the arrest and posted it online before Buehler was released from jail. Buehler was scheduled to stand trial on February 23, 2015. On February 19, 2015, the City of Austin requested the trial judge dismiss all remaining charges against Buehler.\n\nIn the early morning hours of September 21, 2012, while cop watching with members of the Peaceful Streets Project in downtown Austin, Buehler was again arrested, this time with fellow police accountability activist Sarah Dickerson Video indicates that both Buehler and Dickerson were silently filming and were further back than APD's self-described desired distance from a scene. According to Buehler and other witnesses, after refusing an order to walk toward the arresting officer and the suspect in order to join other members of the Peaceful Street Project, and despite continually asking how far he needed to move back, and continuing to move back away from the scene, Buehler was given an ultimatum to either join other members of the Peaceful Streets Project, or leave. When Buehler said he was leaving, he was arrested. As Dickerson filmed Buehler's arrest, she too was arrested. Both were charged with \"interfering with public duties.\" Austin Police Department confiscated both Buehler and Dickerson's cameras and have not yet returned them. This most recent arrest has drawn the ire of the National Press Photographers Association which sent a letter to Austin Police Chief Art Acevedo criticizing the actions of APD toward those who film police.\n\nOn March 13, 2013, Buehler was arrested for disorderly conduct in Gonzales, Texas, for telling a police officer to \"go fuck yourself.\" On June 5, 2013, Buehler defended himself pro se. After a seven-hour trial, the jury found him guilty and assessed a $1 fine. Buehler was awarded a new trial which began on February 23, 2015 at Gonzales County Court. A mistrial was declared due to an error on the judge's part, which was caught by defense counsel. A new appeal trial was scheduled for March 30, 2015. That trial was postponed at the request of the prosecutor. A new trial was then scheduled for May 20, 2015. That trial was postponed after the court informed the defense that they had forgotten to send out jury summonses. The next trial date was set for June 25, 2015. On June 25, 2015, after a trial in which the prosecution only called one witness, and the defense called a half dozen, the jury deadlocked at 3-3 and the Judge declared a mistrial. A few weeks later, the prosecutor requested that the charge be dismissed because he would be \"[u]nable to prove case beyond a reasonable doubt.\" In a statement, Buehler stated, “It has become clear to me that in order for people to see justice within the system, they need to have tremendous resources in terms of connections, finances, and time.” \n\nBetween jury trials scheduled for January and February 2015, the outstanding criminal charges stemming from the August 24, 2015, August 26, 2015, and September 21, 2015 incidents were dropped. On January 5, 2015, the state's motion to drop one set of charges was accepted. The final set of charges pending against Buehler were similarly dropped on February 19, 2015, \"clearing the way for a meeting between city prosecutors and the police accountability activist in federal court\" on March 2, 2015. On February 20, one day after the last of the charges were dropped, \"Judge Mark Lane dismissed Buehler’s federal civil lawsuit against the Austin Police Department and its officers.\" \n\nOn August 2, 2015, Buehler was cop watching with members of the Peaceful Streets Project and Film the Police-Portland in downtown Austin. At multiple points throughout the night, Austin Police officers approached him and told him to step back while he was filming them. At approximately 1:45 a.m., SGT Randy Dear called his subordinate officers into a huddle, and when he emerged he approached Buehler again and told him that \"the next time we go to a disturbance and y'all get in the way ... the next time you're interfering, you're going to be arrested.\" When Buehler asked for a clarification on how what the cop watchers were doing qualified as interference, Dear said, \"You've been warned, sir.\" Buehler then turned to CPL Quint Sebek and Officer Aljoe Garibay to get clarification, and Sebek responded by filming Buehler with his phone, and Garibay stated that Buehler was interfering by being in their way when they were rushing toward disturbances. Dear then came back, positioned himself inches away from Buehler, and ignored Buehler. A little over one minute later, Dear turned to Buehler and told him that he had to step back because they were about to go on patrol. While protesting what he believed was an illegal order, Buehler stepped away from Dear, but was still arrested. He was later charged with \"interference with public duties\" and \"resisting arrest.\" As Buehler was trying to hand off his cameras to other Peaceful Streets Project members, Mike \"Bluehair\" Smith from Film the Police-Portland was also arrested for \"interference with public duties.\" In the days following the arrest, Buehler and the Peaceful Streets Project publicly disputed the claims made by the Austin Police Department. They ultimately produced five videos of the incident that they claim to disprove the claims made by the Officer Garibay in his arrest affidavit. Buehler's lawyer, Millie Thompson told the media that APD was repeating their tactic of arresting Buehler and others for legally filming them in public.\n\nThe Austin Police Department and the Travis County Attorney's Office issued a joint statement saying that they were dropping the charges against Buehler on November 13, 2015. Currently, Buehler has no outstanding criminal charges.\n\nIn May 2015, Buehler was nominated to serve on the Austin Public Safety Commission by Council Member Don Zimmerman. The Austin Police Association immediately began lobbying the city council to keep Buehler off of the commission. while Buehler claimed that his place on the commission was needed in the interest of diversity of thought. After hearing from nearly a dozen community member supporting the nomination, Buehler said that City Council ultimately buckled under the pressure from the Austin Police Association and refused to vote on his nomination by not approving a waiver to his residency status. Eight minutes later the City Council approved the same waiver for another commission nominee.\n\nImmediately following the killing of a Deputy in Houston, TX, Buehler used the Peaceful Streets Project Facebook page to post a controversial statement that read, \"Pig executed in Houston. Probably shouldn't have joined a criminal gang. His bad decisions caught up with him. Blame his parents. Or the scores of thousands of pigs who abuse people every month in America. #thuglife\". Austin Police Chief Hubert Art Acevedo reposted a screenshot of the post on his Twitter account with the commentary, \"This is how mind of so-called peaceful activist works & why police officers don't want him inches from their face.\" Acevedo's statement repeated the narrative that was used to justify Buehler's arrest earlier that month, that Buehler claims were later disproven by video that the Peaceful Streets Project released. Nonetheless, the media ran multiple stories questioning Buehler's choice of words. Buehler argued that he was using the same rhetoric police used after they killed suspects to highlight their hypocrisy. Buehler and the Peaceful Streets Project would repeatedly tweet Chief Hubert Art Acevedo over the following months to highlight that Deputy Goforth was killed while cheating on his wife with a mistress at a gas station while he was supposed to be on duty, arguing that Deputy Goforth did indeed make a series of bad decisions. Chief Hubert Art Acevedo would later go to the media to again complain about Buehler's words after he responded to an Austin Police Officer getting shot in April 2016.\n\nBuehler has repeatedly claimed that \"all cops are cowards,\" and that \"cops are terrorist scum.\" His repeated use of these phrases has irked his critics, including Austin Police Chief Acevedo and Austin Police Association President Ken Casaday. On July 8, 2016, the German paper Kurier ran an article about Buehler calling cops terrorists in the aftermath of the high-profile police killings of Alton Sterling and Philando Castile, and the killing of five Dallas Police Officers by Micah Xavier Johnson.\n\nIn July 2012, Buehler was chosen to receive the Texans for Accountable Government annual Activist of the Year award. In November 2012, Austin Chronicle readers voted Antonio Buehler as Austin's Best Activist and the Peaceful Streets Project as the Best Grassroots Movement for 2012. Buehler was invited to give a TEDx talk about his experiences combating police abuse at the Harvard Graduate School of Education on April 12, 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "13674876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13674876", "title": "Bentley Schaad", "text": "Bentley Schaad\n\nBentley Schaad (1925–1999), was a California modernist and art educator.\n\nBentley Schaad was born in Los Angeles, California, in 1925. As an art student, he attended Jepson Art Institute, the Art Center in Pasadena and the Claremont Colleges. A pupil, and later a colleague, of Henry Lee McFee, Schaad learned the principles of line, color and form. His proficiency as an artist and his technical aesthetic innovations enabled him to begin teaching art at Otis Art Institute. Schaad spent the majority of his career as an instructor.\n\nSchaad was a prolific artist in the West Coast modernist movement along with Henry Lee McFee, Rico Lebrun and Richard Haines. Schaad utilized many concepts of the modernist aesthetic in his work. His paintings were often composed of many broken planes of color — with a concentration on shape, form and structure of an object.\n\n"}
{"id": "22721352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22721352", "title": "Borlaug Dialogue", "text": "Borlaug Dialogue\n\nThe Norman E. Borlaug International Symposium, commonly known as the Borlaug Dialogue, is an annual international symposium tackling the topic of \"global food security\" organized by The World Food Prize Foundation. Past symposia have focused on the promises and challenges presented by biofuels for global development, the dual challenges of malnutrition and obesity, water insecurity and its impact on development and stability in the Middle East, and the possibility of replicating the Green Revolution. The 2014 \"Borlaug Dialogue\" was held on October 15–17, 2014 to coincide with the 100th anniversary of founder Dr. Norman Borlaug's birth.\n\n2014 Discussion topics ranged from:\n\nNotable speakers included:\n\nAn annual US $10,000 award endowed by the Rockefeller Foundation which is presented during the symposium by the World Food Prize Foundation to recognise “researchers under 40 who emulate the scientific innovation and dedication to food security of Dr. Norman Borlaug\".\n\nRecipients:\n\nSource: World Food Prize\n\n"}
{"id": "3860432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3860432", "title": "Bright Flight (Missouri scholarship)", "text": "Bright Flight (Missouri scholarship)\n\nBright Flight is a Missouri merit-based scholarship with a current maximum amount of $3000 per annum to Missouri's qualifying graduating high school seniors who enroll in a Missouri accredited college or university. The actual amount of the scholarship is determined based upon state funding and is sometimes less than the maximum amount. From June 2004 to July 2005, 8390 students were enrolled in the Bright Flight program, which totaled over $15 million in state expenditures.\n\n\nAppropriated by the Missouri General Assembly in 1986, students initially received a statutory maximum of $2000 per year. Many students and higher education officials have observed that tuition expenses at the University of Missouri, for example, were below $2000 in 1987 and thus were fully covered by Bright Flight at its introduction. In 2017, following a period of increases in tuition expenses that easily outpaced inflation, Bright Flight covered only a fraction of the more than $11,000 a typical student spent on tuition at the University of Missouri.\n\nOn August 12, 2010, state budget cuts reduced the amount from $2000/year to $1500/year for that year.\n\nOn November 25, 2013, Missouri Governor Jay Nixon announced at a college preparatory school in Kansas City, Missouri that he included a proposal in Missouri's 2015 budget that would offer an option to receive up to $5,000 extra per year if recipients stayed in Missouri after finishing college for the number of years they received Bright Flight. \n"}
{"id": "27593808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27593808", "title": "CASPA", "text": "CASPA\n\nCASPA or the Centralized Application Service for Physician Assistants is an application service for graduate-level PA programs. Similar to the Common Application used by some undergraduate institutions and the American Medical College Application Service used by medical schools, CASPA allows students to submit one application to multiple schools. The CASPA application platform is a service offered by the Physician Assistant Education Association (PAEA).\n\nThe CASPA application service launched in 2001 with 68 participating physician assistant programs, and mailed over 16,000 applications to its member schools. The original service consisted of the CASPA Applicant Portal, which interfaced with students, and the CASPA Admissions Portal, or PA Admit, an admissions software which interfaced directly with PA schools. Completed applications were printed and mailed to programs via postal mail. In 2011, CASPA moved from the PA AdMIT admissions software to WebADMIT, a web-based admissions application which allows schools to receive and review applications online rather than receiving them by mail. Today, over 180 PA programs use CASPA, which accounts for 90% of ARC-PA accredited physician assistant programs in the United States. CASPA annually processes over 100,000 applications.\n\nIn 2015, CASPA moved its Applicant Portal to an entirely new software platform, called CAS 3.0. New aspects of the platform included a visual, image-based user interface as opposed to the previous text-based interface, and all payments and fee waiver submission forms moved to an entirely electronic format. The platform also included the addition of \"Program Materials,\" a section of the application in which PA programs could configure and collect specific documentation and other information for their program directly through the CASPA application.\n\nPA Programs must be accredited by ARC-PA and be a member of PAEA in order to participate in CASPA as full-fledged programs. New PA programs who have applied for, but not yet received accreditation from ARC-PA may participate for one application cycle as a \"developing program.\" All programs which participate in CASPA are graduate-level programs which require that students have completed at least some college-level coursework prior to applying. The small number of bachelor's degree-level PA programs which accept students straight from high school study do not use the CASPA application. Applicants may determine whether or not the programs they are interested in applying to use CASPA by searching the PA Program Directory.\n\nCASPA is open for applicants to apply to PA programs for roughly eleven months each year. Its open period, called an \"application cycle,\" runs annually from mid-April through March 1. To use the application, applicants must register a user account and fill out standard blocks of application material which is sent to all programs to which they apply. Standard application information includes personal information, academic history, work experience, health care certifications, awards and honors received, professional memberships, references, standardized test scores, and a personal essay documenting an applicant's interest in the physician assistant profession. Applicants must also submit official academic transcripts to CASPA and request at least three letters of reference in order to submit their applications to a PA program. All of this information is provided once and accessed by each school to which the applicant chooses to apply.\n\nThe PA programs themselves have varying deadlines which occur during each application cycle. Those deadlines also have varying requirements based upon the individual PA program, which the applicants must research and adhere to in order to be considered by the school. PA programs also document their additional requirements on the \"Program Materials\" section of the CASPA application, where they have the ability to require additional documents to be uploaded, questions to be answered, and/or prerequisite courses to be marked as completed in order for an applicant to submit their application to that program specifically. Applying to PA programs via CASPA costs $177 for an application to be submitted to one school, and an additional $51 for each subsequent school. In addition, some PA programs charge supplemental application fees or require applicants to submit supplemental documentation.\n\n"}
{"id": "17305458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17305458", "title": "Children's Discovery Museum (Bangkok)", "text": "Children's Discovery Museum (Bangkok)\n\nChildren's Discovery Museum is a museum in Bangkok, Thailand.\n\nThe museum, which is targeted at children, opened in 2001 on the northern edge of the Chatuchak Weekend Market. The museum has eight different sections in three buildings, providing hands on experience into science, nature, culture and society.\n\nIn the first building \"Tortawan Building\", there is the Body and Mind Gallery which provides children with the knowledge about their own physiology and mechanics of the human brain and body.\n\nAt the Culture and Society Gallery,there are realistic displays of traditional drums, languages and folk music from Thailand and other parts of the world. There is a small music room for practice. The Technology Gallery demonstrates technology such as electricity and appliances, auto engines, and radio and television production.\n\nIn the second building \"Sairoong\", is the big backyard, creative library and auditorium.\n\nIn the third building \"Chakkravan\", the Nature and Environment gallery which teaches children about living species and biodiversity.\n\nOn Sunday, 19 Sept, 2010, the Museum was closed, due to financial and operational management issues. Extensive redevelopment and modernisation has been recommended by a working committee set up by the Bangkok Metropolitan Administration with a target of reopening parts of the Museum in late 2012/early 2013. Financing for the redevelopment project is currently being sought.\n"}
{"id": "53233942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53233942", "title": "Christine Fulwylie-Bankston", "text": "Christine Fulwylie-Bankston\n\nChristine Boaz Jones Fulwylie-Bankston (January 16, 1916 – December 9, 1998) was an American educator, poet, publisher, and civil rights activist. She was inducted into the Florida Women's Hall of Fame in 1998.\n\nChristine Boaz was born in Paducah, Kentucky. In 1974, she completed doctoral studies at the University of Pittsburgh.\n\nFulwylie taught beginning in 1937. In 1959, she was director of the Phyllis Wheatley YWCA in Louisville, and part of the merger of the black and white branches of the YWCA in Kentucky. She was executive director of the Pittsburgh Negro Education Emergency Drive (NEED) in 1969. She moved to Florida in 1981, and started a tutoring program in Pensacola.\n\nBooks of poetry by Fulwylie include \"Steps to Free Worlds\" (1979), \"In Whom We Trust\" (1987), \"Different Colored Dreams\" (1994), and \"Her Share: A Chronicle of Relationships During the Growth of America\" (1998). She assisted in the writing of \"Beyond the Storm: An Extraordinary Journey\" (1997), a memoir by Florida midwife Gladys Nichols Milton, and co-edited the 1993 anthology, \"When Black Folks was Colored: A Collection of Memoirs and Poems by Black Americans\".\n\nChristine Boaz married her second husband, DeLos Peyton Fulwylie, in 1970. She was widowed when Fulwylie died in 1987. \n\nFulwylie-Bankston died in 1998, aged 82 years. That same year, she was named to the Florida Women's Hall of Fame.\n\n"}
{"id": "28124559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28124559", "title": "Daniel Harold Casriel", "text": "Daniel Harold Casriel\n\nDaniel Harold Casriel (March 1, 1924 – June 7, 1983) was an American psychiatrist, psychoanalyst and writer from New York City. Dan Casriel's method of group psychotherapy is continued today. His novel road map to happiness evolved into a framework for the field of relationship education as the PAIRS' relationship roadmap for couples. Dr. Casriel also founded the Daytop treatment centers.\n\nDaniel Harold Casriel was born in New York City on 1 March, 1924. He graduated from the University of Cincinnati College of Medicine in 1949 at age twenty-five. In 1950, he began his residency at the Kingsbridge Veterans' Administration Hospital in the Bronx. Eight months into his residency he was drafted by the military and sent to Okinawa where he served as an Army psychiatrist for a year and a half.\n\nCasriel was a trainee at the Columbia Psychoanalytic Institute for Training and Research between 1949 and 1953 and spent 7½ years in analysis Dr. Abram Kardiner, the founder of the first psychoanalytic institute in the United States and a former analysand of Sigmund Freud. Casriel was also a past president of the American Society of Psychoanalytic Physicians.\n\nIn the winter of 1953 Casriel began private practice as a psychiatrist in New York City. Shortly thereafter he was appointed as a psychiatric consultant to the Metropolitan Hospital in East Harlem and the Court of Special Sessions in Manhattan where he became active in the treatment drug addicts.\n\nIn July 1962 Casriel visited the famous Synanon therapeutic community on the US West coast. So impressed with what he saw there, he moved into the community for a “closer look” and wrote a book about the experience ( \"So Fair A House: The story of Synanon\"). In February 1963, Casriel gave $2000 to seven members of Synanon to start a community on the East Coast. The result was a house on Greens Farm Road, Westport, Connecticut directed by Jack Hurst, former president of Synanon in Santa Monica.\n\nIn the summer of the same year, Casriel became the psychiatric consultant for the Daytop Lodge project on Staten Island, a kind of half-way house for the rehabilitation of convicted felons who were addicts. Later, he became cofounder, psychiatric director and medical superintendent of Daytop Village, now one of the world’s largest therapeutic communities.\n\nIn the fall of 1963, Casriel, now age 39, began experimenting with group therapy in his private practice in New York. He began leading groups alone and with peer group leaders like David A. Deitch, the Synanon director at Westport. In 1972 he released his findings to the public in a book titled \"A Scream Away From Happiness\" where he describes The New Identity Process, a group psychotherapy that uses screaming, hugging and affirmations of basic needs.\n\nBy the late 1960s, Dr Casriel had extended his private practice to include a small therapeutic community on the top four floors of his office building. This program he called AREBA, short for \"A\"ccelerated \"R\"e-education of The \"E\"motions, \"B\"ehavior and \"A\"ttitudes. It consisted of about a dozen beds for young addicts who came to live, \"work\" and participate in the \"New Identity Process\". When Casriel died in 1983, former patient Steven Yohay expanded the program and became president of AREBA Casriel, Inc., today the oldest surviving private addiction treatment centre in the United States.\n\nIn the late 1970s, Casriel began teaching his method in several European centers. The German psychiatrist Dr. Walther H. Lechler became one of his students and later employed the ideas extensively in the development of the Herrenalb Model of psychotherapy used at the hospital of the same name in South Germany. Another trainee was the Danish psychoanalyst, Osho sanyassin and mystic, Shanti Kristian Dahl-Madsen. He incorporated the new identity process into a life-affirmative approach to spirituality he called 'Spiritual Hedonism',\n\nCasriel's method of group psychotherapy is continued today through the efforts of the International Society of Bonding Psychotherapy which has members in 8 European cities as well as North and South America.\n\nCasriel's novel concept of a \"Relationship Road Map\" became the foundation of PAIRS' approach to relationship education. Expanding on Horace Mann's focus on the pursuit of happiness as a universal human desire, Casriel theorized that the emotion of love comes from the anticipation of pleasure.\n\nBased on Casriel's theory, \"bonding,\" which he defined as \"the unique combination of emotional openness and physical closeness with another human being,\" is central to sustaining healthy, intimate relationships. Casriel taught that symptoms of bonding deprivation include: \"illness, fatigue, depression, rigidity, constriction, isolation, and the range of anti-social behaviors such as drug and alcohol abuse, gambling and sex addictions.\" Casriel considered bonding a biologically-based need similar to the need for food, water, air, and shelter, yet unique as the only biologically-based need people cannot meet for themselves.\n\nCasriel died at his home in Manhattan on 7 June 1983 age 59 from a form of Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS). He is survived by his wife, the former Olivia Cohen; two sons, Seth, a film editor and producer, and Lyle, a financial adviser.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49863282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49863282", "title": "Diversity in computing", "text": "Diversity in computing\n\nComputer science is one of the STEM fields, (science, technology, engineering, and mathematics), and like many STEM fields, it has a problem maintaining a strong and diverse STEM pipeline. Since 2009, when the number of undergraduate computer science (CS) graduates hit a low, there have been many efforts to increase the supply to meet an ever-increasing demand.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56854303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56854303", "title": "E-engineering", "text": "E-engineering\n\ne-engineering is a concept that results from the concatenation of two previous ideas: distance learning and remote laboratories.\nDistance learning education has been around since the XIX century when the development of the mail services in England enabled the delivering of correspondence courses by mail. In the second half of the XX century, audio and television players where the first technological means used to deliver new, more engaging distance learning courses. And despite keeping the same way to communicate with students, the now more fast and reliable postal services, the materials were then much more diversified, ranging from carefully constructed texts and audio and video records to conventional broadcast radio and television, in this case, open to all, students and non-students. These were complemented by live individual or group sessions over the phone, between instructor and students, or among students, enabling real interactive teamwork.\nHowever, the breakthrough that represents a true turning point in distance learning was the introduction of the concept of e-learning during the 90s, boosted by the two most significant advances in the telecommunications area – the Internet network and the invention of the World Wide Web. With the Internet a fast, reliable and interactive channel of communication between instructor and students or among students was now available, enabling a degree of interaction never achieved before in distance learning and comparable to face-to-face classes. On the other hand, the World Wide Web with its hypertext links enabled the construction of much more diversified and engaging materials, supported by audio, image, and video, readily available and highly interactive. This revolution was accompanied by the massification of personal computers, which made them accessible and affordable. In a decade, from 1990 to 2000, these very expensive machines, complicated to operate and whose access was almost restricted to scientist and engineers and to technical university students, became an indispensable household equipment.\nIn spite of all these advances, the undergraduate courses on offer were nevertheless restricted. Engineering courses which require the access to specific chemistry, physics, mechanics, electrical machines, electronics or optics laboratories and real-time interaction with equipment and instrumentation, where not available at distance.\nThis reality is changing due to the creation of remotely accessible laboratories that enable students to perform hands-on lab work remotely, with a level of interactivity and realism never achieved before. A lot of work is being done in the past decade in the area of remote laboratories. In the specialized literature, it is possible to find many examples of different labs for different areas of physics and electrical engineering, each one allowing different degrees of freedom in the configuration of the experiment by the remote user. \nThe integration of these remote laboratories as part of fully online undergraduate programs in engineering areas enabled the creation of e-engineering courses. These are e-learning courses in engineering areas where students perform their hands-on laboratory work remotely interacting in real-time with equipment and instrumentation available online 24/7.\nThe first example of one such course is the L3-EOLES (Electronics and Optics e-Learning for Embedded Systems) course, an entirely online English-taught 3rd year bachelor's degree in Electronics and Optics for Embedded Systems. The course, that started being offered in the school year 2014/15, is currently in its fourth edition. Designed as a specialization year, this course is oriented towards a currently expanding field in the electrical and computer engineering area, the field of electronics and optics for embedded systems. This area of knowledge requires students to be able to perform experimental work to acquire the expected technical experimental skills. The execution of laboratory assignments over the Internet required the development of remotely accessible experimental laboratories enabling students to interact in real-time with real experimental setups. This innovative training has been accredited by the educational authorities in Tunisia, Morocco, and France.\n"}
{"id": "6386465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6386465", "title": "Education in Kazakhstan", "text": "Education in Kazakhstan\n\nFollowing independence from the Soviet Union, a major economic depression cut \"public financing\" for education in Kazakhstan, \"which dropped from 6% of gross domestic product in 1991 to about 3% in 1994, before rising to 4% in 1999.\" Elementary- and secondary-school teachers remain badly underpaid; in 1993 more than 30,000 teachers (or about one-seventh of the 1990 teaching staff) left education, many of them to seek more lucrative employment.\n\nIn 1994 Kazakhstan had 8,575 elementary and secondary schools (grades one through eleven) attended by approximately 3.2 million students, and 244 specialized secondary schools with about 222,000 students. In 1992 about 51 percent of eligible children were attending some 8,500 preschools in Kazakhstan. In 1994 some 272,100 students were enrolled in the republic's sixty-one institutes of higher learning. Fifty-four percent of the students were Kazakh, and 31 percent were Russian.\n\nKazakhstan's 1995 constitution provides mandatory, socialized secondary school education. Citizens compete for socialized institutions of higher learning. Private education is increasing in the country, with about 5% of students enrolled in the private schools that remain largely under arbitrary state control.\n\nIn 2000, the Government of Kazakhstan joined the governments of the Kyrgyz Republic and Tajikistan, and the Aga Khan to establish the world’s first internationally chartered institution of higher education, the University of Central Asia . The UCA will have three campuses of equal size and stature in each of the founding countries. The Kazakh campus is under construction in Tekeli in the Zhetysu region, 35 minutes east of the regional capital Taldykorgan, and three hours by car from Almaty. The UCA will benefit from the resources of the Aga Khan Development Network to offer an internationally recognized standard of higher education in Central Asia. Currently, the University operates a School of Professional and Continuing Education , with a School of Undergraduate Studies and a Graduate School of Development in the process of being established.\n\nIn 2002 Asian Development Bank provided technical assistance to Kazakhstan to identify key issues and priorities in the education sector and to contribute to strengthening the government's education sector development strategy. The United States provided 137 Peace Corps members to \"work in education and NGO development\" in 2004.\n\nKazakhstan has a 99.1% literacy rate for males and 97.7% for females as of 1999.\n\nWhen United States Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice visited Kazakhstan from 12–13 October 2006, she said \"The future of any state depends on its level of education. This is my fourth visit to Kazakhstan, I have already been to Atyrau and Almaty and I have been able to see for myself the high level of education of your nation, which is a key to success of any country.\"\n\nThe Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan protects the right to access to kindergarten. Children typically start kindergarten at age 5. As of 2004, there were 100 kindergartens in the nation (83 public, 4 directly under the Ministry of Education, and 13 private) and 135 856 children enrolled in kindergartens (or 63% of the 5- and 6-year-olds). All kindergartens are expected to teach Kazakh and Russian, and most emphasize one language over the other.\n\nOne major problem has been the reduction of the number of kindergartens, due to the lack of state funding and virtually non-existence of private sources of money. There are also reported declines in the quality of kindergartens including a lack of hot meal or low quality food served and buildings in poor repair.\n\nPrimary school in Kazakhstan typically starts at age 7 (some parents send their children to school, when they turn 6, very rarely - 8) and runs from years 1 – 4. Classes typically run in two sessions, from 8 until 1 and from 2 until 7, with students either going to class in the morning or in the afternoon. All primary schools are state-owned and primary and secondary education are constitutionally protected rights.\n\nThe curriculum for both primary and secondary school is established by the Ministry of Education, with little choice left up to the individual schools. Textbooks are published by independent retailers and must be bought by the students themselves. \n\nPrimary school is provided free to all citizens and residents of Kazakhstan and parents typically pay only for extra-curricular activities such as sports programs, music programs, and sometimes lab equipment or other special equipment.\n\nStudents continue in lower secondary school from grade 5 to year 9. This roughly corresponds to what is called in the USA, junior high school, or middle school. Typically a student in year 8 is 14–15 years old. The curriculum is a general education curriculum covering subjects like literature, student's first language, Russian or Kazakh language (depending on the language of the school in general), history, physics, mathematics, biology, chemistry, foreign language, and so on.\n\nOnce leaving lower secondary school, there are three tracks available. Students are free to choose any track of higher secondary education but are required to pursue one. Graduates of all tracks are eligible to enter university.\nThe first track is a general secondary school which covers grades 10-11 and provides general education.\n\nIn addition, there are two curriculum tracks for vocational education: initial vocational education which is provided by training schools and lycees, and secondary vocational education provided by colleges and trade schools.\n\nInitial training schools are designed to train students in a skilled profession. The program is usually two or three years, (typically ages 16–18), but for some professional training four-year programs are required. Students who graduate can go on to colleges for advanced vocational training or attend university. The state pays the costs of education.\n\nLycees provide basic vocational education to prepare students for skilled professions and includes general academic education. The course of study is three years. The state pays the costs of education.\n\nColleges give a program that provides both academic general education and advanced vocational education. Colleges, if licensed, can provide initial vocational education. Programs last for three or four years (grades 10–12, 13). Accelerated programs exist for students who have already completed general secondary education and initial vocational training in the same field. Graduates may go on to university or may begin working. As of the 1999 Budget Law, colleges are state-owned and self-financed. In principle, however, all compulsory education (primary and secondary) is provided free of charge.\n\nThe curriculum for primary and secondary school is established by the Ministry of Education, with little choice left to the individual schools. Textbooks are sold in bookstores and are purchased by the students themselves.\n\nLike primary school, secondary school is subsidized by the government. Parents only pay for extracurricular activities such as sports programs, music programs, and sometimes lab equipment or other special equipment.\n\nThe universities, following the Russian system, focus entirely on teaching and do not engage in research. Students who are accepted to university at any level apply under a specific major, and the curriculum is set by the university (according to State legislation) for each major. For example, economics majors will all study in the same courses in the same order, separate from English majors who have a different curriculum. Some courses are required for a variety of majors and there is a possibility of switching majors but typically classes do not transfer to the new major and the student is expected to reenter in the new major as a first year.\n\nThe government is currently pursuing a program to adopt a credit-system which would allow students to study more easily internationally, and to add the possibility of a curriculum with electives and student-chosen courses.\n\nThere are four levels of tertiary education in Kazakhstan:\n\nUniversities are usually headed by a rector, appointed by the President of Kazakhstan, who wields considerable authority over the institution, approving all decisions including those regarding curriculum, personnel, and admission. Thus Kazakhstan universities are more centralized than their Western counterparts.\n\nThe flagship research university in Kazakhstan is Nazarbayev University. Two other prominent universities in Kazakhstan are al-Farabi Kazakh National University in Almaty and L. N. Gumilyov Eurasian National University located in Astana.\n\nIn addition, there are a few international universities such as KIMEP, which is a joint program, 40% owned by the government of Kazakhstan, but education is based on the Western system. The Kazakh-British Technical University and the Kazakh-American University represent joint projects between Kazakhstan and the UK and the USA, respectively. In all three institutions, the language of instruction is English. The University of Central Asia, founded jointly by the Governments of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan and by the Aga Khan, is affiliated with the Aga Khan Development Network. Its Kazakhstan campus is located in Tekeli. A number of specialty universities also exist. As of, there were public universities and private universities.\n\nPrivate universities, typically for-profit institutions, are subject to the same regulations regarding curriculum but are free to set tuition and salaries as they see fit. Public universities are subject to the same regulations as other government-owned organs, regarding not only fees and salaries, but also administrative structure, contracting and subcontracting, and ownership of property.\n\nState owned universities receive funding if their enrollment reaches 86,000 students or 34%. A small number of universities are financed through a budget line in the Republic budget, such as art academies or international universities.\n\nStudents who have not received general upper secondary education have the academic portion of their program financed by the state. As for the vocational track, some students pay fees and others are financed through the state order program, where state authorities request a certain number of trained workers and specialists in certain fields. These students are chosen through a merit-based competition based on grades and recommendations from teachers or public officials.\n\nEducation for the nation as a whole made up\n\nof which the lion's share went to general education:\nShare (%) of public expenditure on education by level and type, 1999-2003\n\nComparative average monthly salaries (KZT), 1999-2003 \n\nNazarbayev Intellectual Schools (NIS) was founded in 2008 (as \"Orken\") with a mission \"to enhance the intellectual capacity\" of Kazakhstan. In effect, the organisation develops, pilots and disseminates programmes for use in the national system of primary and secondary education, through its network of primary and secondary schools, professional development centres (Centres of Excellence), international schools, and associated organisations. The recent curriculum reforms were initiated by the NIS working in partnership with the National Academy of Education. \n\nThe Bolashak Scholarship of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, was created in 1993 by the decree of the President: “In Kazakhstan’s transition toward a market economy and the expansion of international contacts, there is an acute need for a workforce with advanced western education, and so, it is now necessary to send the most qualified youth to study in leading educational institutions in foreign countries”. The Scholarship is merit-based and the selection process includes not only academic credentials, but also competence in the language of study, psychological testing and an interview process. Commitment to development of Kazakhstan and patriotism are factors as well. The final decision is made by the Republican Commission, chaired by the State Secretary and composed of the Ministers, members of Parliament, and members of the Office of the President. The Republican Commission also approves the country of study and program of study.\n\nThe Scholarship requires that all recipients return to Kazakhstan after graduating and work for five years in Kazakhstan. The Scholarship pays for all costs related to education, including tuition and fees, costs of travel, and a living stipend. Scholars are expected to maintain academic excellence. In the US, this translates to a 3.0 GPA.\n\nThere are currently about 1,800 scholarship recipients studying abroad in 24 countries. About 1,700 were awarded the Scholarship in 2005. The most popular countries are the USA (about 700 students chosen in 2005), the UK (about 400 students chosen last year) and Russia (about 300 students chosen in 2005). Australia and Malaysia are two countries represented for the first time in 2005 and host 2 Bolashak Scholars each.\nNazarbayev University started his work from 2010, and it covers Bolashak system, therefore, Bolashak program has been closed for bachelors only.\n\nThe Government is in finishing stage of implementing a credit system with Western academic three-levels (Bachelor-Master-PhD) which allows Kazakh students to study internationally without any understanding issues. Kazakh National educational system also allows the possibility of a curriculum with electives and student-chosen courses.\n\nIn connection with a lack of school facilities or a lack of teachers, some primary and secondary schools run three, instead of two sessions, so one group of students attends from 8 to 1pm, a second from 1pm to 6. This results in overworked teachers, students who are kept up late, and overused facilities.\n\nThe Asian Development Bank (ADB) published a report on financing of public education in Kazakhstan in 2004, which mentions widely agreed upon criticisms of the public education system reported elsewhere. According to this report, financing of public education is low, and mechanisms to introduce private financing have been unsuccessful. Furthermore, the Budget Code and the law 'On education' fail to clearly delineate responsibilities of local and central government, nor do they include sufficient mechanisms for monitoring budget expenditures.\n\nThe Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development published a report in 2014 on the education system in Kazakhstan. According to the report, Kazakhstan achieved significant improvements in the quality of education and increased access to primary and secondary education. The report also indicated that Kazakhstan had embarked on profound reforms to improve the quality of the education system and was increasingly looking to international standards and best practices.\n\n\nNational Authorities\n\nInternational organizations\n\nConferences\n"}
{"id": "8482131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8482131", "title": "Elazar ben Tsedaka ben Yitzhaq", "text": "Elazar ben Tsedaka ben Yitzhaq\n\nElazar ben Tsedaka ben Yitzhaq () (January 16, 1927 – February 3, 2010) was the Samaritan High Priest from 2004 until his death. He was born in Nablus. He succeeded his cousin Saloum Cohen in 2004. According to tradition he is the 131st holder of this post since Aaron. \n\nDuring his time in office, he would lead the Samaritan community in their annual Passover ritual sacrifice of sheep. \n\nBefore retirement he worked as a mathematics teacher. His funeral in February 2010 was attended by Israeli and Palestinian officials, who noted his major efforts in helping to guide his community, and to serve as a bridge between Israeli and Palestinian communities. \n\n"}
{"id": "2598108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2598108", "title": "Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council", "text": "Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council\n\nThe Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) is a British Research Council that provides government funding for grants to undertake research and postgraduate degrees in engineering and the physical sciences (including mathematics, artificial intelligence and computer science), mainly to universities in the United Kingdom. The head office is in Swindon, Wiltshire in the same building (Polaris House) that houses the AHRC, BBSRC, ESRC, MRC, Natural Environment Research Council, Science and Technology Facilities Council, TSB, Research Councils UK and the UK Space Agency.\n\nEPSRC was created in 1994. It was formerly a part of the Science and Engineering Research Council (SERC).\n\nPaul Golby, Chair of EngineeringUK, was appointed as the Chairman of the EPSRC from 1 April 2012 for four years. He succeeded Sir John Armitt.\n\nFrom 2007 to March 2014, the chief executive and deputy chair of EPSRC was David Delpy FREng FRS, a medical physicist and formerly vice provost at University College London.\n\nHe was succeeded in April 2014 by Philip Nelson, former University of Southampton pro vice-chancellor for research and enterprise. In April 2016 Professor Tom Rodden was appointed as the Deputy CEO of EPSRC, a new position created to work alongside Philip Nelson while he also acts as Chair of RCUK Strategic Executive. Rodden joins the EPSRC on secondment from the University of Nottingham where he is currently Professor of Computing and Co-Director of Horizon Digital Economy Research.\n\nIn addition to funding academic research projects, the EPSRC also funds Centres for Doctoral Training (CDTs). These deliver four-year doctoral training programmes to cohorts of PhD students and EngD research engineers studying within UK universities, and are funded to target specific areas of research for which there is recognised need. In 2008, the EPSRC announced funding for 44 new CDTs spanning its entire remit.\n\nThe EPSRC also funds or joint-funds 'Innovation and Knowledge Centres'. Innovation and Knowledge Centres are university based business incubators established in order to support commercialisation of emerging technologies. Between 2007 and 2016, the EPSRC has funded 7 Innovation and Knowledge Centres:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2427262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2427262", "title": "Ewine van Dishoeck", "text": "Ewine van Dishoeck\n\nEwine Fleur van Dishoeck (born 13 June 1955 in Leiden) is a Dutch astronomer and chemist. She is Professor of Molecular Astrophysics at Leiden Observatory, \nand the president of the International Astronomical Union. She is one of the pioneers of astrochemistry, and her research is aimed at determination of the structure of cosmic objects using their molecular spectra.\n\nShe won the Kavli Prize for astrophysics in 2018. She is a member of the Royal Dutch Academy of Sciences since 2001 and the U.S. National Academy of Sciences. She received the James Craig Watson Medal in 2018, the Albert Einstein World Award of Science in 2015, the Gothenburg Lise Meitner Award in 2014, the Spinoza Prize in 2000, the Bourke Award of the Royal Society of Chemistry (UK) in 2001 and the Gold Medal of the Royal Dutch Chemical Society in 1994. She works on interstellar molecules; physical and chemical evolution during star formation and planet formation; submillimeter and mid-infrared astronomy; basic molecular processes; and the radiative transfer of line and continuum radiation.\n\nShe was a Junior Fellow of the Harvard Society of Fellows.\n\nVan Dishoeck is married to Tim de Zeeuw, also a professor of astronomy at Leiden University and from September 2007 to 2017, Director General of the European Southern Observatory.\n\n"}
{"id": "4001479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4001479", "title": "Fundamental Law of Education", "text": "Fundamental Law of Education\n\nThe Fundamental Law of Education, as the name suggests, is a law concerning the foundation of Japanese education. Because it acts as the basis for the interpretation and application of various laws & ordinances regarding education, it is also known as and . MEXT translations into English entitle it the Basic Act on Education.\n\nThe Fundamental Law of Education contains a preamble and 18 Articles. The law sets out the purposes and objectives of education and provides for equal opportunity in education, compulsory education, coeducation, social education, political education, religious education, educational administration, etc. According to the law, the purpose of education is . Article 1 states that the law\n\nThe current Fundamental law was enacted on December 22, 2006, replacing the previous 11-article Act of March 31, 1947 (the 'old fundamental law of Education').\n\nThe old law was created under the auspices of SCAP, enacted by the 90th session of the Imperial Japanese Diet, which would be the last Imperial Diet conducted under the Imperial Japanese Constitution. It is often said that the old Fundamental Law of Education was written in the spirit of the new Japanese Constitution, representing a radical means of education reform, and replacing the pre-World War II Imperial Rescript on Education, which was based on Imperialist and Confucianist thought.\n\nDuring the debate about constitutional reform, it was argued that provisions regarding education should be included in the national constitution itself. However, the Minister of Education at that time, Kōtarō Tanaka, proposed the creation of a separate law regarding education. The Ministry of Education then created an Educational Reform Committee, which deliberated over the contents of the Fundamental Law. The law was approved by the Imperial Diet as was written in the original draft, without revision.\n\n\n\n\n\nSoon after the passing of the Fundamental Law, there were numerous arguments suggesting its revision. Some suggested that ideas of patriotism and regard for Japanese traditions were lacking, and others maintained that such provisions could lead to renewed feelings of nationalism and subservience to the state. Such arguments have been brought up repeatedly since the law was first passed.\n\nOn April 28, 2006, the Cabinet drafted a reformed version of the law which was submitted to the 164th ordinary session of the National Diet (sitting from January to June 2006). The draft is composed of a preamble and 18 articles. The new preamble does not include the phrase \"the realization of the ideals laid forth in the constitution depend on the education of the people\", as is stated in the current law, and includes some additions, such as the phrases \"community spirit\" and \"the inheritance of tradition\". In addition, the \"purpose of education\" has been divided into five items, containing such moral provisions as \"to nurture an attitude[...]to love our country and our home\".\n\nOn May 2, 2006, the Ministry of Education announced that they had established a \"Fundamental Law of Education Reform Promotion Headquarters\" under the direction of Kenji Kosaka, the Minister of Education. The first meeting was scheduled for May 8, and a project team was established. The objective of this group is not only to regulate argument in the Diet, but also to assist in initiatives to explain the educational reforms to the public and decide on basic programs promoting education.\n\nOn December 22, 2006 the complete revision of the Fundamental Law of Education passed and was implemented. It now contains 18 Articles.\n\nOpinion was divided on whether students should receive education \"according to individual ability\" or \"equally\". The new Law does not contain the word \"equally\" any longer.\n\nThere was also debate about whether the absolution of school fees at public universities should be limited only to tuition costs, or should also include textbook fees, food costs, commutation costs, etc.\n\nThere was debate concerning the topic of political neutrality, namely, what kind of political education should be forbidden, and how to harmonize this with the promotion of political interest amongst students. In 1954, the Japanese government, aiming to curb political activity by the Japan Teachers Union, passed a law designed to ensure \"political neutrality\" in Japanese public schools. In 2004, Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi refused to accept a petition—written by Japanese high school students—against the deployment of the Japan Self-Defense Forces to Iraq\n, said to be due to the prohibition on political education.\n\nOn March 20, 2003, based on the discussions of the People's Educational Reform Council (a consultative body to the Prime Minister dissolved in Dec. 2000), the Central Education Council reported to Minister of Education Atsuko Toyama on the necessity of reform to the Fundamental Law.\n\nAccording to the report, the concepts expressed in the Fundamental Law should continue to be valued; however, in order to meet the challenges of the 21st century, the following reforms would be necessary.\n\nIn April 2004, the ruling Liberal Democratic and Komei Parties reached an agreement on the meaning of the term \"patriotism\" (\"to value customs and culture, and to love our country, from which they have developed\") and submitted a reform proposal to the Diet, the first such proposal to be submitted to the Diet since the end of World War II.\n\nThe proposed reforms reflect three influential lines of thinking.\n\n\nThe extent and nature of moral education is a frequent point of debate in government and academia.\n\nThe old Fundamental law did not contain provisions regarding moral education, although moral education features in the curriculum overseen by the Ministry of Education. Along with other provisions in order to \"broaden\" the scope of the law, there were added provisions regarding moral education. For example, the objective in Article 2(5)\n\nis designed to satisfy both conservative views on patriotism and progressive views on global integration and/or focus on individualism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16275662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16275662", "title": "Futurekids", "text": "Futurekids\n\nFuturekids, Inc. is a privately held internationally franchised K–12 educational software company headquartered in El Segundo, California, which focuses on technological literacy and computer literacy.\n\nFounded in 1983, Futurekids was among the first computer and technology training programs in the United States, with a focus on tutored computer learning centers and pre-school technology learning. In 1996, the company was purchased by Robert M. Davidson and Janice G. Davidson, PhD, education entrepreneurs and founders of Davidson & Associates, an early educational software company and maker of the popular Math Blaster and Reading Blaster series.\n\nThe company currently offers professional development programs and K–12 technology curriculum in schools in 65 countries. It focuses on the integration of technology and the use of computers in the educational process. Their professional development course is used in the Los Angeles Unified School District, Pennsylvania, and other districts around the world and offered through Dell training and technology certification, and is certified in a number of universities for continuing education units (CEUs) needed for teaching re-certification in the U.S.\n\nIn 2008, the Software and Information Industry Association (SIIA) selected Futurekids’ Real Journeys in Technology curriculum as a 2008 Codie awards finalist among educational software in the best instructional solution in other curriculum areas category \n\nFuturekids’ products and services are aligned with technology standards, including the International Society for Technology in Education (ISTE); the Software and Information Industry Association (SIIA); Project Tomorrow, and the Consortium for School Networking (CoSN).\n\nFuturekids has been awarded contracts for their educational products by the state of Michigan and Pennsylvania.\n\nIn 2004, Platinum Television Group selected Futurekids for a segment on Today's Family, a series that celebrates successful parenting solutions,\n\nIn 2005, Futurekids worked with Intel Corporation and other technology and national youth organizations in creating the \"Partnership for 21st Century Skills,\" an advocacy organization for positioning computer skills at the center of U.S. K–12. In November 2007, the Partnership for 21st Century Skills launched Route 21, an online, one-stop shop for 21st century skills-related information, resources and tools.\n\nIn 2006, Adobe, Intel, Lenovo Group and Futurekids created a web portal, 21st Century Connections, dedicated to delivering technology solutions that will help students learn 21st century skills.\n\nIn 2007, Futurekids expanded its innovative professional development program to more schoolsthe “Classrooms for the Future” technology initiative in the state of Pennsylvania. The Classrooms for the Future initiative, believed to be the largest program of technology integration ever undertaken by a state, allocates $200 million in funding over a three-year period for laptop computers, software, printers, interactive electronic whiteboards, professional development, technology infrastructure, support and high-speed Internet access. Futurekids was tapped to provide some professional development services for the initiative.\n\nThe “Innovation and Best Practice Project” on information and communication technology conducted in Adelaide, South Australia, found that \"the Futurekids’ curriculum engenders authentic learning and student engagement.\"\n\nA research project conducted by Boise State University, Boise, ID, to determine the effects of a new program provided by Futurekids for 5th grade students and teachers concluded the \"Technology enriched learning environment had an overall positive effect on reducing a student’s anxiety towards computers and raising their level of enjoyment.\"\n\nThe Center for Positive Practices, conducted a controlled study of the effectiveness of Futurekids, Inc.’s professional development tools and concluded \"Futurekids professional development participants performed significantly better than a non-treatment control group on posttest computer literacy... \"\n\nHigher math and reading scores in the Kentwood Public Schools District (Michigan) were attributed primarily to the initiation of a technology education program with Futurekids in 1993.\n\nNewsome Park Elementary School in Newport News, Virginia, implemented a Futurekids program to teach children about technology and apply it to their personal endeavors. In recognition of the program, the school received the 2003 “Virginia Technology Program of the Year Award,” Newsome Park was also recognized as one of 26 program excellence award winners in the U.S. by the International Technology Education Association.\n\nNews Paper Article (Sri Lanka) URL: http://www.island.lk/2000/10/17/busine02.html URL: https://www.facebook.com/FutureKidsSriLanka/posts/189256834560912\n"}
{"id": "24298776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24298776", "title": "Hamas–UNRWA Holocaust dispute", "text": "Hamas–UNRWA Holocaust dispute\n\nThe Hamas–UNRWA Holocaust dispute erupted on 31 August 2009 following a perception in the Gaza Strip that the United Nations Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA) planned to include a course on human rights that speaks about the Holocaust in the eighth-grade curriculum of preparatory schools it runs in the territory. Militant Islamic movement Hamas, which controls the Gaza Strip, protested, calling the Holocaust \"a lie made up by the Zionists\" and demanding the removal of the offending content from the curriculum. Some officials of the United Nations agency initially responded by denying that it teaches the subject of the Holocaust in its schools or that it plans to teach it in its new curriculum. This denial drew criticism from various groups and individuals.\n\nUNRWA runs 221 of more than 600 primary and secondary schools in the Gaza Strip, educating some 200,000 children between the ages of 6 and 15. The Gaza Strip has been ruled by Hamas since it seized control of the enclave in June 2007 by defeating Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas' security forces. According to the Associated Press, \"Hamas has been trying to cement control over Gaza, while the U.N. agency is increasingly emerging as a shadow government, providing services to some 1 million of Gaza's 1.4 million people\".\n\nThe Holocaust is not taught in U.N.-run schools for Palestinian refugees in the West Bank, Syria, Jordan and Lebanon, nor is it taught in Palestinian government schools in the West Bank or Gaza. There is also no evidence that it was taught in Palestinian schools when these were under Israeli control between 1967 and 1994.\n\nProtesting what it said were plans to teach eighth-graders in U.N. schools about the Holocaust, the Hamas-affiliated Popular Committee of Palestinian refugees sent an open letter to the chief of UNRWA offices calling the Holocaust \"a lie made up by the Zionists\" and demanding it \"immediately\" erase the part that speaks about the Holocaust from the Palestinian pupils' curriculum. Husam Ahmed, the Popular Committee's coordinator in the Gaza Strip, said the material, which was to be included in a course on human rights, \"was formed in a way that shows sympathy with the Jews\".\n\nThe interior ministry of the Hamas de facto government in Gaza expressed astonishment over the UNRWA curriculum's acknowledgement of the Holocaust.\" \"We reject teaching our pupils such thoughts that contradicts with our Palestinian beliefs,\" said the interior ministry statement, which called on the ministry of education \"to check if such news is right.\"\n\nThe head of Hamas' education committee in Gaza, Abdul Rahman el-Jamal, said that the Holocaust was a \"big lie\". Meanwhile, Hamas Education Minister Muhammad Askol criticized UNRWA, saying it was not respecting Hamas's \"sovereignty\" over Gaza. He said he planned to ask for a meeting with agency officials to \"assure the necessary coordination\".\n\nHamas spiritual leader Yunis al-Astal said teaching children about the Nazi genocide of Jews would be \"marketing a lie\", and characterized the possible introduction of the subject into Gaza schools as a \"war crime\".\n\nHamas spokesman Sami Abu Zuhri said that Hamas rejects any attempt to introduce the Holocaust into the curriculum as \"a kind of normalization with Israel and an attempt to bridge the psychological gap between Israel and the Palestinians\".\n\nJamila al-Shanti, a Hamas legislative official, said: \"Talk about the Holocaust and the execution of the Jews contradicts and is against our culture, our principles, our traditions, values, heritage and religion\".\n\nMustafa al-Sawwaf, editor of the Hamas-run newspaper Filastin, said the U.N. \"should also be prevented from implementing this destructive policy that harms our history and civilization as well as our people's culture.\"\n\nUNRWA denied that it teaches the Holocaust in preparatory schools or that the Holocaust is included in the pupils' curriculum. Adnan Abu Hasna, UNRWA spokesman in Gaza, said: \"Such reports are totally untrue. The current curriculum that is taught to pupils at UNRWA schools doesn't contain any indication to the subject of the Holocaust\".\n\nSimilarly, according to the Ma'an News Agency, UNRWA Commissioner-General Karen Abu Zayd said at a press conference on 1 September, \"I can refute allegations that UN school curriculum includes anything about the Holocaust. Anyone can have a look at the school books. Really we focus on human rights in [the] curriculum.\" The accuracy of this report was later contested by UNRWA.\n\nThe agency also denied that it was planning to include the subject in its new curriculum. Mahmoud al-Hemdeyat, director of education department of UNRWA in the Gaza Strip, said: \"UNRWA hasn't finished yet from finalizing the new curriculum... As far as I know, the curriculum doesn't include anything about the Holocaust\".\n\nAccording to the Associated Press (AP), Karen Abu Zayd suggested information about the Holocaust could be included in later years, but the curriculum being developed was still in draft stage. AP also wrote that UNWRA's website mentioned general plans to include the Holocaust in lessons on the \"historical context\" that gave rise to the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights.\nUNRWA chief in Gaza John Ging said he believed the dispute over the syllabus had more to do with attempts by Hamas to meddle in the U.N. organization's affairs than with the Holocaust. Ging added that he felt any human rights course is incomplete without discussing the Holocaust, but it would exceed UNWRA's mandate to write texts about the Holocaust and the Palestinian uprooting. According to one UN source, the lessons had been under consideration for the 2009-10 human rights course.\n\nA statement by UNRWA on 4 September denied unspecified quotes which it said the Simon Wiesenthal Center had attributed to Karen Abu Zayd and John Ging. The Center had previously quoted Abu Zayd as saying \"we focus on human rights in curriculum\" and \"the murder of 6 million Jews and 5 million other undesirables ... is not a human-rights issue\", and Ging as saying \"There is no intention to integrate materials and topics [on the Holocaust] that are inconsistent with the desire of Palestinian society.\" According to one journalist, Abu Zayd's quotes were \"untraceable\" and Ging's quote was \"based on a computer-generated translation of an Arabic-language report by PalToday, a Gaza Strip-based news agency with Islamist sympathies, quoting a Hamas official who purported to quote Ging\".\n\nThe United Nations agency was criticized by various parties following initial reports that it would not be introducing discussion of the Holocaust in its human rights education:\n\nUnited States Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-Fla.) said in a statement that \"by disconnecting the Holocaust from human rights, (the U.N. agency) is highlighting the antisemitic bias that pervades the U.N. system.\"\n\nThe Simon Wiesenthal Center called for the dismissal of Abu Zayd and Ging and demanded the United States and Canada suspend funding for the U.N. agency pending the resolution of the issue. The United States was the second-largest donor to the agency in 2008, providing nearly $96 million of its $541.8 million budget.\n\nThe American Jewish Congress said in a statement: \"It is... discouraging... that the United Nations Relief and Works Agency did not criticize Hamas for denying the children of Gaza knowledge of one of the central events of the 20th century. Instead, it rushed to deny that the Holocaust was being taught in its schools or that it was contemplating teaching it in the future\".\n\nJihad Zakarneh, the deputy education minister in the West Bank, said teaching Palestinian children about the Holocaust has to wait until there is a peace agreement with Israel. \"When Israel ends its occupation of our land and our people and gives us our right of independence and self-determination, then we discuss this issue with them\".\n\nIn October 2009, John Ging told \"The Independent\" that he was \"confident and determined\" that the Holocaust would feature in the curriculum, saying, \"no human-rights curriculum is complete without the inclusion of the facts of the Holocaust, and its lessons\". At the time, the curriculum was expected to be completed within weeks and then put out for consultation with parents and the public. In November 2010, Ging confirmed in an interview that the Holocaust was being discussed in UNRWA schools in Gaza, noting \"we enrich the curriculum with our human rights program, for all ages. We teach the children about the history of the human rights movement. We grounded our program in the universal declaration of human rights, which is borne out of the horrors of the Second World War. So we teach the children the horrors of the war, including the Holocaust. We are also teaching the kids about the unanimously adopted resolution on Holocaust remembrance, which is a 2005 UN resolution proposed by the state of Israel adopted in the General Assembly\".\n\nUNRWA efforts brought continued criticism from some Palestinian Islamists. One writer for the pro-Hamas Palestine Information Center warned that \"some circles within UNRWA... have been trying to introduce 'the holocaust' into Palestinian school curricula in the Gaza Strip\". He suggested that these efforts indicated \"a virulent Zionist propensity to brainwash Palestinians, particularly young generations, into accepting or at least understanding Zionism, a hateful fascist political ideology\".\n\nFurther controversy erupted when it became known that UNRWA, as part of a project that brought its top human rights students from Gaza to the United States for a visit, had taken them to an exhibit on the Holocaust at UN headquarters in New York. According to a statement issued by the Hamas refugee department, \"We denounce this suspicious act in hopes that UNRWA education officials in the Gaza Strip will not repeat it; and we hope the Palestinian Authority will take a national stand to put a stop to ideological corruption on Palestine's youth.\"\n"}
{"id": "46241609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46241609", "title": "Harriet Newell Noyes", "text": "Harriet Newell Noyes\n\nHarriet Newell Noyes (; March 5, 1844 – January 16, 1924) was an American Presbyterian educator, writer, and missionary for fifty years. She founded the True Light Middle School, the first women's school in Guangdong Province, China, and is credited with establishing the first generation of professional women of that province.\n\nNoyes was born on March 5, 1844, in Guilford, Ohio. Her father, Varnum Noyes (1804 - 1888) was a Presbyterian minister. She was her parents sixth child and one of three of the children who were Chinese missionaries. She was named for Harriet Newell who was a famous missionary.\n\nIn January 1868, the Presbyterian Church of the United States (PCUSA) sent her as a missionary to Fangcun, Guangzhou, China (广州市芳村区) where she learned to speak fluent Cantonese. On June 16, 1872, she founded the first school for women in Guangdong Province – the True Light Academy in Shakee. She had spent two years preparing to open the school and she used $1000 she had collected. Noyes was surprised to find the resistance there was to the education of women in the area. She had sufficient resources to supply free education to thirty females and ten of these would be married. When the school first opened, there were only six students and three of them were married. The school that she started was a primary school, but it grew from offering three years of education to offering nine despite having an early disastrous fire. The school broke the 100-student barrier in 1887 and in 1894 had 200 students. The Women's School and the Bible Women's School were moved to Paak Hok Tong, Guangzhou and were merged and renamed as \"True Light Middle School\". Dr. J.W. Creighton was named the principal. In 1919, the first graduation ceremony was held.\n\nIn 1919, Noyes published \"A Light in the Land of Sinim: Forty-Five Years in the True Light Seminary, 1872–1917\".\n\nNoyes returned to the United States in May 1923 when she received a letter from Eugene Chen, the secretary to Sun Yat-sen, thanking her for helping with the education of 6,000 pupils at the \"True Light\" Seminary.\n\nShe is credited with establishing the first generation of professional women of that province. Women who were educated during her 50 years at the school went on to become 286 teachers, 114 doctors, and more than 30 nurses. Her book, titled \"History of the South China Mission of the American Presbyterian Church, 1845–1920\", was published posthumously in 1927.\n\nIn 1949, the Chinese Communist Revolution forced the headmistress of Noyes' school to move the school to Hong Kong. The school became the Kowloon True Light Middle School. The \"True Light\" schools also include the Hong Kong True Light College, True Light Girls' College, and True Light Middle School of Hong Kong.\n\nThe school that remained in Bai He Dong was taken over by the Chinese Communist Party, which renamed it the Number 22 Middle School during the Cultural Revolution. As of 2012, the school is called the Guangzhou True Light Middle School and Harriet Newell Noyes is credited as its founder.\n"}
{"id": "8370551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8370551", "title": "Harvard University Herbaria", "text": "Harvard University Herbaria\n\nThe Harvard University Herbaria and Botanical Museum are institutions located on the grounds of Harvard University at 22 Divinity Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts. The Botanical Museum is one of three which comprise the Harvard Museum of Natural History.\n\nThe Herbaria, founded in 1842 by Asa Gray, are one of the 10 largest in the world with over 5 million specimens, and including the Botany Libraries, form the world's largest university owned herbarium. The Gray Herbarium is named after him. HUH hosts the Gray Herbarium Index (GCI) as well as an extensive specimen, botanist, and publications database. HUH was the center for botanical research in the United States of America by the time of its founder's retirement in the 1870s. The materials deposited there are one of the three major sources for the International Plant Names Index.\n\nThe Botanical museum was founded in 1858. It was originally called the \"Museum of Vegetable Products\" and was predominantly focused on an interdisciplinary study of useful plants (i.e. economic botany and horticulture). The nucleus of materials for this museum was donated by Sir William Hooker, the Director of the Royal Botanic Garden. Professor George Lincoln Goodale became the museum's first director in 1888; under his direction the building was completed in 1890 and provided both research facilities and public exhibit space, which were the botanical complement to the \"Agassiz\" Museum of Comparative Zoology. Three successive directors substantially enlarged the collections of economic products, medicinal plants, artifacts, archeological materials, pollen, and photographs.\n\nFaculty and students continue to add significantly to the extensive paleobotanical collections, particularly Precambrian material containing early life forms.\n\nThe Oakes Ames Collection of Economic Botany, the Paleobotanical Collection (including the Pollen Collection), and the Margaret Towle Collection of Archaeological Plant Remains are housed in the Botanical Museum building. The Botany libraries and various herbaria are located in the Harvard University Herbaria building. The Botany Libraries collectively are a founding member of the Biodiversity Heritage Library.\n\nThe Ware Collection of Glass Models of Plants, popularly known as the \"Glass Flowers,\" are considered one of the University's great treasures. Commissioned by Goodale, sponsored by Elizabeth C. Ware and her daughter Mary (Goodale's former student), and created by Leopold and Rudolf Blaschka from 1887 through 1936, the collection comprises approximately 4,400 models including life-size and enlarged parts for over 840 species. This is the only collection of its type in the world.\n\nThe Botanical Museum of Harvard University and the other museums that comprise the Harvard Museum of Natural History are physically connected to the Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology and one admission grants visitors access to all museums.\n\nThe Herbaria publishes the journal \"Harvard Papers in Botany\".\n\n"}
{"id": "11520791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11520791", "title": "Horst Rittel", "text": "Horst Rittel\n\nHorst Willhelm Jakob Rittel (14 July 1930 – 9 July 1990) was a design theorist and university professor. He is best known for coining the term \"wicked problem\", but his influence on design theory and practice was much wider.\n\nHis field of work is the science of design, or, as it also known, the area of design theories and methods (DTM), with the understanding that activities like planning, engineering, policy making are included as particular forms of design.\n\nIn response to the perceived failures of early attempts at systematic design, he introduced the concept of \"second generation design methods\" and a planning/design method known as issue-based information system (IBIS) for handling wicked problems.\n\nRittel was born in Berlin. From 1958 to 1963, he was Professor of Design Methodology at the Ulm School of Design in Germany (Hochschule für Gestaltung—HfG Ulm).\n\nHe died in Heidelberg, aged 59.\n\nRittel coined the term \"wicked problem\" in the mid-1960s to describe the ill-defined problems of planning. Rittel and Melvyn Webber published the seminal paper on Wicked Problems in the journal Policy Sciences in 1973. Although the subject of Wicked Problems is sometimes considered to have originated in the Social Sciences, as a professor in a department of architecture Rittel was clear that architectural design problems were also wicked problems.\n\nIBIS (for issue-based information system) is the instrumental version of the understanding of design as argumentation. It is a method to guide the design process and to reinforce deliberation and argumentation. A number of computer-based versions of IBIS have been and are being developed for various computer systems (personal computers and workstations).\n\nThe idea of IBIS was conceived in 1968. It has served as a regular teaching tool, in order to demonstrate the typical difficulties of design and the different ways of dealing with them. IBIS was an idea \"waiting for an appropriate technology\" in order to become more effective and attractive. The various previous applications have been more or less successful, but have suffered from bureaucratic clumsiness. The recent availability of \"hypertext\" data-structures and user interfaces—even on small microcomputers and moderately priced workstations—has allowed the design of IBISes which are much more \"user-friendly\" than their predecessors. Today, we have a number of IBIS-programs, developed and implemented on a variety of machines by PhD-students, most recently by Ph.D. candidate Douglas E. Noble. In addition, there is an implementation (gIBIS), developed by MCC, an R&D corporation in Austin, Texas, run by a consortium of 25 leading US-computer companies and dissolved in 2004.\n\nThere are considerations to make the concept of IBIS the basis of operating systems for future generations of computers. At present, large scale tests of gIBIS as a tool for supporting hard- and software development are under way in several corporations. The use of IBIS as a management tool and as a means for argumentative treatment of technology assessment is also being considered by several companies in Europe and elsewhere.\n\nSome crucial old weaknesses of IBIS remain the same: the danger of getting lost in the web of cross-references, the lack of a \"synoptic\" overview of the state of resolution, and the \"logic of the next question\", i.e. the problem of prestructuring the possibilities for guiding the designers' deliberations into plausible directions.\n\n"}
{"id": "202654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202654", "title": "How to Read a Book", "text": "How to Read a Book\n\nHow to Read a Book is a 1940 book by Mortimer Adler. He co-authored a heavily revised edition in 1972 with Charles Van Doren, which gives guidelines for critically reading good and great books of any tradition. The 1972 revision, in addition to the first edition, treats genres (poetry, history, science, fiction, et cetera), inspectional and syntopical reading.\n\n\"How to Read a Book\" is divided into four parts, each consisting of several chapters.\n\nAdler explains for whom the book is intended, defines different classes of reading, and tells which classes will be addressed. He also makes a brief argument favoring the Great Books, and explains his reasons for writing \"How to Read a Book\".\n\nThere are three types of knowledge: practical, informational, and comprehensive. He discusses the methods of acquiring knowledge, concluding that practical knowledge, though teachable, cannot be truly mastered without experience; that only informational knowledge can be gained by one whose understanding equals the author's; that comprehension (insight) is best learned from who first achieved said understanding — an \"original communication\".\n\nThe idea that communication directly from those who first discovered an idea is the best way of gaining understanding is Adler's argument for reading the Great Books; that any book that does not represent original communication is inferior, as a source, to the original, and that any teacher, save those who discovered the subject he or she teaches, is inferior to the Great Books as a source of comprehension.\n\nAdler spends a good deal of this first section explaining why he was compelled to write this book. He asserts that very few people can read a book for understanding, but that he believes that most are capable of it, given the right instruction and the will to do so. It is his intent to provide that instruction. He takes time to tell the reader about how he believes that the educational system has failed to teach students the art of reading well, up to and including undergraduate, university-level institutions. He concludes that, due to these shortcomings in formal education, it falls upon individuals to cultivate these abilities in themselves. Throughout this section, he relates anecdotes and summaries of his experience in education as support for these assertions.\n\nHere, Adler sets forth his method for reading a non-fiction book in order to gain understanding. He claims that three distinct approaches, or readings, must all be made in order to get the most possible out of a book, but that performing these three levels of readings does not necessarily mean reading the book three times, as the experienced reader will be able to do all three in the course of reading the book just once. Adler names the readings \"structural\", \"interpretative\", and \"critical\", in that order.\n\nStructural Stage: The first stage of analytical reading is concerned with understanding the structure and purpose of the book. It begins with determining the basic topic and type of the book being read, so as to better anticipate the contents and comprehend the book from the very beginning. Adler says that the reader must distinguish between practical and theoretical books, as well as determining the field of study that the book addresses. Further, Adler says that the reader must note any divisions in the book, and that these are not restricted to the divisions laid out in the table of contents. Lastly, the reader must find out what problems the author is trying to solve.\n\nInterpretive Stage: The second stage of analytical reading involves constructing the author's arguments. This first requires the reader to note and understand any special phrases and terms that the author uses. Once that is done, Adler says that the reader should find and work to understand each proposition that the author advances, as well as the author's support for those propositions.\n\nCritical Stage: In the third stage of analytical reading, Adler directs the reader to critique the book. He asserts that upon understanding the author's propositions and arguments, the reader has been elevated to the author's level of understanding and is now able (and obligated) to judge the book's merit and accuracy. Adler advocates judging books based on the soundness of their arguments. Adler says that one may not disagree with an argument unless one can find fault in its reasoning, facts, or premises, though one is free to dislike it in any case.\n\nThe method presented is sometimes called the \"Structure-Proposition-Evaluation (SPE)\" method, though this term is not used in the book.\n\nIn Part III, Adler briefly discusses the differences in approaching various kinds of literature and suggests reading several other books. He explains a method of approaching the Great Books – read the books that influenced a given author prior to reading works by that author – and gives several examples of that method.\n\nThe last part of the book covers the fourth level of reading: syntopical reading. At this stage, the reader broadens and deepens his or her knowledge on a given subject—e.g., love, war, particle physics, etc.—by reading several books on that subject. In the final pages of this part, the author expounds on the philosophical benefits of reading: \"growth of the mind\", fuller experience as a conscious being.\n\nAppendix A in the 1972 edition provided the following recommended reading list:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33850773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33850773", "title": "Inodai Waldorf School", "text": "Inodai Waldorf School\n\nInodai Waldorf School in Andheri West, Mumbai, India, is based on the Waldorf curriculum. It was established in 2011 by the Education of Emancipation Trust.\n\nThe Steiner Waldorf curriculum is holistic and spans the age range from 3–18 years. It places emphasis on integrating nature, art, crafts, drama and music into all academic learning including science & mathematics. It addresses all the multiple intelligences, including emotional literacy and kinesthetic learning. \n\nIn addition to developing analytical, logical and reasoning skills as education has always done, it focuses on the development of imagination, creativity, memory and flexible thinking skills. \n\nThe Steiner curriculum is based on understanding the development of a child and how children learn at different ages. It encourages the development of each child’s sense of truth, beauty, and goodness, and inspires in each child a lifelong love of learning. \n\n"}
{"id": "40409802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40409802", "title": "International Indonesia Forum", "text": "International Indonesia Forum\n\nThe International Indonesia Forum (IIF) is an organisation which holds annual interdisciplinary seminars in Indonesia in an attempt to \"facilitate interactive engagement and participation of students and educators\" both inside and outside of Indonesia. Originally developed as an offshoot of the Yale Indonesia Forum, it is now maintained independently. The seminar was first held in 2008 at Atma Jaya University, Yogyakarta; the eighth conference was held at Sebelas Maret University in Surakarta. The forum has published five books and hosts a working paper series on its website.\n\nThe International Indonesia Forum is run on a voluntary basis. It does not charge fees for presenters. Audience members may be from academia or the general public, including non-academic organisations. , five books have been published based on papers presented at the conferences. The chairman of the IIF is Frank Dhont. The forum hosts a working paper series on its website.\n\nIn 2003, Yale University in New Haven, Connecticut, established an interdisciplinary discussion forum for academics with a professional interest in Indonesia and related topics. This forum was established by three students, Frank Dhont, YoonSeok Lee, Thomas Pepinsky, with a member of the faculty, Indriyo Sukmono, as adviser. Initially meant for \"members of the Yale community\", this forum grew in size, until in 2006 it was capable of holding conferences. Discussions began in 2007 about having another conference, this time in Indonesia so as to facilitate the attendance of Indonesianists from outside the United States, particularly those in Indonesia. This second conference was hoped to \"facilitate interactive engagement and participation of students and educators\" from both Indonesia and abroad.\n\nThe first such conference was held at Atma Jaya University, Yogyakarta, in mid-2008: Atma Jaya handled financial issues related to hosting, whereas Yale handled the cost of publication. The conference, with the theme \"Towards An Inclusive Democratic Indonesian Society: Bridging the Gap Between State Uniformity and Multicultural Identity Patterns\", a theme which reviewer Alexander Claver described as \"timely\" owing to the issues of managing diversity and \"societal heterogeneity and homogeneity\". Claver wrote that the resulting book, though it did \"not paint a coherent picture\" and was uneven, was still \"a rich source of ideas\" and that most readers would find something of interest within.\nThe second forum, hosted at Sanata Dharma University (also in Yogyakarta), dealt with Pancasila, Indonesia's national ideology, and its role in the Reformation era. Claver writes that this was a development on the themes explored in the first conference. By this point half of attendees were Indonesian academics, with the remainder from various international institutions. An academic review of the conference's proceedings (published the following year) was highly negative: reviewer R. E. Elson wrote that the book was \"disappointing\", with \"far too much airy and meaningless blather about identity and too much vacuous wordy and unproductive theorising\" regarding its subject matter.\n\nVarious universities hosted the program in succeeding years, mostly in Yogyakarta but also in nearby Semarang. The number of participants increased yearly, and in 2011 the international conferences (increasingly separate from their parent organisation) were branched off under the title International Indonesia Forum. That year's conference, taking the theme of education for the future, was held at Yogyakarta State University and drew a crowd of 150 audience members and presenters.\n\nIn 2012 the conference, which received 171 submissions and saw nearly 100 speakers, was held at Gadjah Mada University in Yogyakarta; speakers originated from a number of international and Indonesian universities, including Harvard, Cornell, Berkeley, Sydney, Leiden, and the London School of Economics. The rector of Gadjah Mada University, Pratikno, stated that the conference was relevant to both Indonesia and the university as education was necessary to combat corruption. This was the last IIF conference with Yale support; a new, independent, organisational body was established so that the conference could continue independently.\n\nThe sixth conference was held at Sunan Kalijaga Islamic University, Yogyakarta, in 2013; over fifty individuals presented presenters. Of the conferences theme regarding change and continuity in the country, director of Sunan Kalijaga's post-graduate program Khoiruddin Nasution stated that changes were rapidly developing in the country and, as such, it was hoped that the IIF could provide recommendations to the Indonesian government regarding the correct path to take.\nA seventh conference was held in 2014 at the Puri Khatulistiwa Hotel in Jatinangor, outside Bandung, in collaboration with the Sunan Gunung Djati State Islamic University Bandung. The two-day conference consisted of six sessions, with three panels in each session, and each panel consisting of four speakers. The sixty-four speakers came from such institutions as the University of Freiburg, Australian National University, and Charles Darwin University, and originated from countries such as Malaysia, Australia, and the United States. Topics discussed involved various aspects of Indonesian society, including law, history, culture, and economics. Ali Ramadhani, third vice president of Gunung Djati, stated that Indonesianists, such as those at the IIF, needed to stay confident in researching contemporary issues.\n\nThe eight IIF conference was hosted by Sebelas Maret University in the city of Surakarta between 29 and 30 July 2015. Seventy speakers, representing such universities as North Carolina, Berkeley, and London, attended the conference. Panel themes included Art and Tradition in Indonesia, Wayang: Traditional Puppetry in Modern Times, and Tradition and Economy. The following year, the ninth IIF conference was held at Atma Jaya Catholic University of Indonesia in Jakarta. More than fifty speakers presented papers with the theme \"In Search of Key Drivers of Indonesian Empowerment\". The keynote speaker, of the Presidential Advisory Council, used the conference to call on Indonesianists and other academics to support the Indonesian government's efforts to promote empowerment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10983360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10983360", "title": "John W. Semple", "text": "John W. Semple\n\nJohn W. Semple is a Canadian Scientist at St. Michael's Hospital and a Professor of Pharmacology at the University of Toronto. He was born in Windsor, Ontario in 1959 and received his PhD in Immunology at Queen's University at Kingston, Ontario. In 1991, Semple, along with John Freedman, discovered a T helper cell defect in patients with the bleeding disorder called immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP). ITP is the condition of having a low platelet count (thrombocytopenia) and most causes appear to be related to antibodies against platelets. Very low platelet counts can lead to a bleeding diathesis and purpura. The T cell defect was initially shown to be an exaggerated interleukin-2 response when T cells were cultured with platelets in vitro. Subsequently, this cytokine abnormality was shown by others to be responsible for many of the autoimmune mechanisms causing the disorder.).\n\nThe importance of understanding the T cell defects in ITP is that novel therapies aimed at these cells may significantly benefit patients with ITP.\n\n"}
{"id": "18545105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18545105", "title": "Julia Abigail Fletcher Carney", "text": "Julia Abigail Fletcher Carney\n\nJulia Abigail Fletcher Carney (pen names, Julia, Minnie May, Frank Fisher, Sadie Sensible, Minister's Wife, Rev. Peter Benson's Daughter; April 6, 1823 – November 1, 1908) was an American educator, poet, author, and editor. Remembered for her poem \"Little Things\", many of her poems were set to music and published in school textbooks, and used in church hymn-books for more than half a century. She died November 1, 1908, in Galesburg, Illinois.\n\nCarney had charge of the \"Poet's Corner\" in the Boston \"Trumpet\". She furnished articles, both prose and verse, for the \"Christian Freeman\" when it was established. Something by her appeared in almost every number of the \"Rose of Sharon\", and also in the \"Lily of the Valley\". In the \"Universalist Miscellany\", her articles bore the pen name of \"Rev. Peter Benson's Daughter\". In 1840, she commenced writing for the \"Ladies' Repository\", under the signature of \"Julia.\" She was a regular contributor to the \"Boston Olive Branch\". She also wrote two volumes, published by J. M. Usher, entitled \"Gifts from Julia\", and a series of Sunday school question books. \"Poetry of the Seasons\" was published by Abel Tompkins.\n\nJulia Abigail Fletcher was born April 6, 1823 in Lancaster, Massachusetts. She inherited patriotism from Revolutionary ancestors, being a granddaughter of Major Timothy Fletcher, of Lancaster, Massachusetts, and of Major Moses Warren, of Jay, Maine. She had no recollection of a time when she did not express her thoughts in verse. Her older brothers and sister were happy to write down her rhymes many years before she learned to do it herself. Her earliest sorrow was the opinion of a maiden aunt, freely expressed to her mother, that \"if she let that child go on writing verses, she would never be good for anything else.\" This advice led to a maternal injunction, \"Never let me see any more of your poetry.\" Subsequently, the mother found her daughter's rhymes hidden in the attic and repealed the injunction. \n\nSeveral years of invalidism, the result of scarlet fever at the age of eight years, interfered with her education, but from her couch, she read through the libraries of the neighborhood. Her first works of verse were published in the Lancaster and Concord local papers at the age of fourteen. Educated at Lancaster Academy, her school compositions, chiefly in verse, were sent regularly to several papers and magazines in Boston, whose editors were pleased with the youthful effusions, and constantly encouraged her to write. \n\nWhen seventeen, she went to Philadelphia, where her married sister resided, and there remained two years, teaching in a private school. Returning to Massachusetts to the home of her parents, she served a summer's apprenticeship in the district school, where she attracted commendation from the committee by keeping a formerly unruly school in good order without corporal punishment. During her life as a teacher, she wrote many poems and sketches, most of them for radical papers with reform ideas, and also a series of Sunday school instruction books, which were used for many years in liberal churches, until Lesson Papers superseded the use of textbooks. In 1844, she was elected teacher of one of the primary schools in Boston, where she continued to teach until her marriage in the spring of 1849. \n\nFrom 1849, her writing was chiefly prose, and for the \"Phrenological Journal\", \"Science of Health\", \"Midland Monthly\", and our various denominational papers, especially the \"New Covenant\". In 1869 and 1870, she conducted the \"Home and Fireside\" department of the \"New York National Agriculturist\", and the \"Bee-Keepers′ Journal\". As she was expected to fill several columns with continued novelties, she surprised her readers with a variety of signatures, including: \"Minnie May,\" \"Frank Fisher,\" \"Sadie Sensible,\" and \"Minister's Wife\". Her signature of \"Julia,\" however, though known to her friends, was usually dropped by those who copied her articles, and so it happened that those finding favor with the public went the rounds of paper, magazine, and schoolbook, many of them in the books from which she herself taught, without credit, some of them marked \"Anon.\" As a writer, using too many signatures became a serious mistake, not only taking parts of her real name, sometimes her husband's, but fictitious ones. This was done, partly to give variety, when under engagement to fill a certain number of columns of \"Home and Fireside\" department in a New York City monthly, and partly as a minister's wife, who wanted to criticise the relations of pastor and people without giving offense. \n\nShe was deeply interested in the reform movements of the time, and often wrote on their behalf. She was also actively engaged in Sunday school work, and was well known as a writer for children. In later life, she wrote chiefly in prose, short sketches of real life, or essays upon temperance, and other serious subjects. \n\nIn 1849, she married Rev. Thomas J. Carney (1818–1871), a Universalist minister. After a year's residence in Maine, and another in Cooperstown, New York, they took up their home in the West. Here, amid the many duties of pioneer life, and the care of little children, she seldom had time for writing. \n\nIn 1871, the family had removed to Apple Creek Prairie, Illinois where the people had commenced a church under his ministry. He left home on horseback, and was returning to observe their wedding anniversary, when he was thrown from his horse. At first, it was supposed the injury would detain him at home for a few weeks, and he was sure of a speedy recovery; but soon, the lesion of a vein in his back caused unconsciousness from which he never recovered. He died May 4, 1871, and was buried at White Hall, Illinois. The widow was still in mourning when her son William, age 20, died suddenly of sunstroke. Four other children had died in infancy, leaving one daughter and three sons still with her. She moved in with her oldest son, Fletcher Carney, an attorney of Galesburg, Illinois, but made frequent visits to her younger son, Rev. James W. Carney, of Holyoke, Massachusetts.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51566646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51566646", "title": "List of fee-paying schools in Ireland", "text": "List of fee-paying schools in Ireland\n\nThis is a list of private fee-paying secondary schools in the Republic of Ireland by province.\n\nIn 2016, there were 51 fee-charging private second level schools in Ireland. In the academic year 2014/15, those 51 schools had 24,112 students enrolled.\n\nIrish private schools are divided between ‘major’ or ‘minor’ in accordance with their establishment. Major Irish private schools would include \n\n\nAnnual day fees are on average between €4,000 to €7,000, however the cost of boarding can increase these fees significantly, all the way up to more than €15,000 for the school year. \n\nIn 2012, fee-charging schools in Ireland took in €121 million in fees out of a total revenue of €227 million.\n\n\nMidleton college,\nBruce college,\nHewitt college.\nScoil Mhuire College, Cork\n\n"}
{"id": "32625824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32625824", "title": "List of high schools in Croatia", "text": "List of high schools in Croatia\n\nThis is the list of schools which provide secondary education in Croatia.\n\n\n\n\n\nGymnasium \"Fran Galović\" Koprivnica\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSrednja strukovna škola Blaž Jurjev Trogiranin Trogir\nSrednja škola Ivana Lucića Trogir\n\nBiskupijska klasična gimznazija Ruđer Bošković - Dubrovnik\n\nDubrovačka privatna gimnazija - Dubrovnik\n\nEkonomska i trgovačka škola Dubrovnik- Dubrovnik\n\nMedicinska škola - Dubrovnik \n\nObrtnička škola - Dubrovnik\n\nGimnazija Metković - Metković\n\nSrednja škola Metković - Metković\n\nSrednja poljoprivredna i tehnička škola - Opuzen \n\nSrednja škola Blato - Korčula \n\nSrednja škola fra Andrije Kačića Miošića - Ploče \n\nTuristička i ugostiteljska škola - Dubrovnik \n\nSrednja škola Petra Šegedina - Korčula \n\nSrednjaškola - Vela Luka\n\nUmjetnička škola Luke Sorkočevića - Dubrovnik\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8214855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8214855", "title": "Malegapuru William Makgoba", "text": "Malegapuru William Makgoba\n\nMalegapuru William Makgoba (born 1952 in Sekhukhune, South Africa) is a leading South African immunologist, physician, public health advocate, academic and former vice-chancellor of the University of KwaZulu-Natal.\nIn 2013 he was recognised as \"a pioneer in higher education transformation\", by being awarded the Order of Mapungubwe in Silver, but has also generated extensive controversy during that process.\n\nMakgoba received an MBChB degree from the University of Natal Medical School in 1976 with merit in medicine. In 1979 he was named the first black Nuffield Dominion Fellow to the University of Oxford, where he completed his DPhil degree in human immunogenetics from in 1983 under Professor Sir Andrew McMichael. The title of his thesis was \"Studies on the polymorphism of HLA class II antigens\".\n\nHe went on to become the first senior registrar to fellow expatriate South African and President of Royal College of Physicians of London, Sir Raymond Hoffenberg, in 1983.\n\nHe was Reader in Molecular Endocrinology at the Royal Postgraduate Medical School London (1990–94)\nHe was the first black South African to be selected to the prestigious National Institute of Health's Fogarty Visiting Programme in the late 1980s.\nMakgoba was appointed the first black deputy vice-chancellor at the University of the Witwatersrand in 1995.\n\nMakgoba left Wits University to join the South African Medical Research Council. He was appointed the first black Chairperson of the MRC Board(1995-1998). He thereafter served as President of the South African Medical Research Council between 1999 and 2002 and was involved in developing South Africa's AIDS strategy and the SA AIDS Vaccine Initiative.\n\nProfessor Makgoba joined the former University of Natal as its Vice-Chancellor in 2002, and oversaw its merger with the University of Durban-Westville into the University of KwaZulu-Natal. UKZN is one of the top five research-intensive universities in the country and ranked amongst the top 500 Universities in the World.\n\nDuring 2007-2008, the university raised 577 million South African rands (about 57 million Euros) in total research funding. Prof. Makgoba has been closely involved with the funding in 2011 of a new 4,000 square metre HIV and tuberculosis research Institute, KwaZulu-Natal Research Institute for TB and HIV (KRITH) at the university's medical school.\n\nWorking with Drs. Martin Sanders and Stephen Shaw and others at the National Cancer Institute, \"were among the first to appreciate the importance of lymphocyte adhesion and these observations have helped shape the evolution of the field as follows:\n\n\nA former Deputy Vice-Chancellor at the University of Witwatersrand and ad hominem professor of molecular Immunology at the University of Witwatersrand's School of Pathology 1996-98, Professor Makgoba is \n\n\n\nShortly after his appointment as deputy vice chancellor of Wits, Makgoba announced to \"The Times Higher Education Supplement\" that it was his intention to replace the university's \"dominant eurocentrism\", and called the university leadership a \"small inbred elite\" In response, 13 senior staff compiled a dossier contradicting claims made in his curriculum vitae. Makgoba responded with his own accusations, based on the personal files of the 13, of tax evasion, inconsistent salary scales, nepotism, lack of qualifications and misrepresentation of credentials. Makgoba was temporarily suspended by the university for abusing his position to access the academics' personal files.\n\nJournalist and biographer Mark Gevisser commented that \"No intellectual debate defines our times more than that which racked the University of Witwatersrand in 1995\" Mahmood Mamdani stated that \"Makogba was a victim of the 'racialised power' entrenched at Wits\".\n\nIn 1997, Makgoba published a book about his experiences at Wits, entitled \"Mokoko – The Makgoba Affair\". In it, he affirmed his commitment to the idea of an African Renaissance and to \"transforming the higher education landscape\". Guy Martin, professor at the School of Government of the University of the Western Cape, referred to the book as \"a personal account of the recent process of transformation occurring at Wits.\" Martin noted that, while Makgoba was \"justifiably proud of his considerable achievements as an African scientist\", the force with which he defends his credentials in the book \"leads him to sound intellectually pompous and arrogant and utterly self-centered, if not downright egocentric\". Martin also questioned Makgoba's \"resort to some unorthodox--and, possibly, unethical--methods of struggle\", and noted his own \"uneasiness in attempting to disentangle objective reality from opinion, and fact from fiction\" while reading the book. Deputy President at the time, Thabo Mbeki, wrote: \"The publication of this book demonstrates that it is possible to succeed in the struggle for change, despite the continuing exercise of power by powerful forces which owe their dominance to the very antithesis of \"liberalism\", however defined.\"\n\nIn 2005, \"The Mail and Guardian\" newspaper published an opinion piece by Professor Makgoba entitled \"The wrath of the dethroned white male\" which compared the behaviour of white South African males in post-Apartheid South Africa to \"baboons or bonobos\" who had lost their alpha status, and were in need of \"treatment and proper African rehabilitation\". This article was debated heavily in the press, and provoked a response the following week from Robert Morrell, a professor in the Faculty of Education at UKZN under Makgoba. In that article, Morrell argued that Makgoba's article could rightfully be interpreted as \"bullying managerial practice\". Later that year, Morrell brought a defamation case against Makgoba, primarily citing claims made about Morrell in an email sent out to staff. Morrell dropped the case three years later, following the death of his wife, and citing concern for his \"own health and well-being\".\n\nThe Committee for Academic Freedom in Africa issued a statement in 2006 in protest against alleged infractions of academic freedom at the University of KwaZulu-Natal under Makgoba.\n\nThis partly arose from his treatment of critics, particularly those involved with the shack dwellers' movement Abahlali baseMjondolo, of his ordering the eviction of shack dwellers living on the campus. Later that year he brought disciplinary action against one of the critics, UKZN academic Fazel Khan, for \"bringing the university into disrepute\", after Khan had answered questions put to him by the media after he was airbrushed out of a picture and removed from the text of an article on a film he had made that was printed in the University newsletter. Later that year \"The Mercury\" newspaper reported that Makgoba had threatened to, at the request of the mayor of Durban, bring evidence from the National Intelligence Agency to the Council and to charge academics who had been working with the shack dweller's movement Abahlali baseMjondolo with \"incitement\".\n\nStaff were also banned from speaking to the media during a two-week strike in February 2006. Strikers wore T-shirts that read: \"We Demand Academic Freedom\".\n\nIn 2007, the university senate invited faculties to make submissions on academic freedom. Preparation of the faculty of science and agriculture's submission was led by Professors Nithaya Chetty and John Van den Berg, who spoke to the press in April 2008 after Makgoba, as chairperson of the senate, blocked the submission several times, claiming that it was \"self-serving and contributed nothing to the debate.\" Van den Berg and Chetty also voiced their frustrations that the submissions were to be investigated only by a one-man subcommittee of the senate, consisting of former education minister Sibusiso Bengu, rather than being discussed in senate itself. \nMakgoba, as chair of the senate, blocked discussions of academic freedom. When Van den Berg criticised this, Makgoba accused him racism, cowardice, insubordination and lack of academic productivity.\nVan den Berg voiced his frustrations in the press, and sent a letter to Makgoba which he also read out at a senate meeting.\n\nIn response, in August 2008, the university brought disciplinary action against the two professors for having spoken to the press, in part for their criticism of Makgoba. They were charged with breaches of confidentiality, dishonesty and \"gross negligence\", and threatened with dismissal.\nAlthough the matter had initially been resolved by mediation, this was rejected by university lawyers, who instead required that Chetty and Van den Berg sign admission of guilt forms, which they refused to do. Prof Alan Rycroft, representing the two professors, said of the matter, \"As a labour lawyer, I have to question what kind of advice the legal team is giving to the vice-chancellor. If there has been misconduct, workplace discipline is meant to be corrective, not punitive.\"\n\nProfessor Van den Berg reached an agreement with the university's lawyers. The terms included that the agreement would stand before the university council, that Van den Berg would express his regret and apologise unreservedly to the university, council, senate and to Makgoba for any harm that he may have caused, \"reputationally or otherwise\" and accept that senate had resolved that Makgoba was entitled to remove \"academic freedom\" from the senate agenda. The university agreed that Van den Berg had not been grossly negligent in claiming to the press that Makgoba had no right to do so. Van den Berg was also issued a final written warning and agreed never to make \"disparaging remarks\" about Makgoba in the media. Professor Chetty resigned, citing concern for himself and his loved ones. A representative of the Freedom of Expression Institute, said of the resignation, \"I think he was forced into a position where he felt he had to resign. The disciplinary process, with such expensive legal counsel, was set up so that the professors would lose.\"\n\nThe disciplinary proceedings were condemned by several prominent national organisations, including the South African National Editors Forum, the Congress of South African Trade Unions, the Freedom of Expression Institute and the SA Mathematical Society. South African Education minister at the time, Naledi Pandor raised concern over the \"persistent negative publicity\" the situation had generated.\n\nA Council Committee on Governance and Academic Freedom (GAFC) including former Public Protector Advocate Selby Baqwa was set up internally by the University. In 2009 it found that, although there were problems dealing with academics who spoke to the media and with the manner of conduct of disciplinary hearings, Makgoba and the university had not threatened academic freedom. This was in spite of \"two years of repeated criticism, both locally and abroad, of its commitment to academic freedom.\".\n\nIn 2012, Makgoba,Karim and Coovadia stated in an advertorial published by the \"Sunday Times\" that UKZN had \"followed a protracted legal struggle mounted to protect its scientific autonomy against official impediments to legitimate AIDS research\"\n\nDuring the late 1990s and early 2000s, President Thabo Mbeki invited several HIV/AIDS denialists to join his Presidential AIDS Advisory Panel, resulting in government policies that have since been estimated to have led to the early deaths of more than 330,000 South Africans. At the time, Makgoba as President of the Medical Research Council took a leading role in the fight against AIDS denialism and the right for the freedom of scientific inquiry and was signatory and co-editor of the \"Durban Declaration on HIV and AIDS\" in July 2000.\n\nMakgoba, along with the council chairman, stepped aside from their positions on 28 November 2006, after a scandal emerged involving claims of sexual harassment and victimisation levelled by the dean of the Faculty of Management Studies, Pumela Msweli-Mbanga. Judge Magid chaired the enquiry into the sexual harassment allegations. Makgoba denied these claims and relinquished his post pending the outcome of an enquiry. Makgoba was subsequently found not guilty and resumed his position as Vice-Chancellor. The dean of management studies was found to have had an intimate relationship with the university's chief financial officer, Kanthan Pillay, to whom she granted a master's degree which was later rescinded for \"multiple irregularities\". Msweli-Mbanga filed the sexual harassment charges in response to initial investigations into the awarding of the degree.\n\n"}
{"id": "13630878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13630878", "title": "Marion Koogler McNay", "text": "Marion Koogler McNay\n\nMarion Koogler McNay (7 February 1883 – 13 April 1950), was an American painter and art teacher who inherited a substantial oil fortune upon the death of her father. She later willed her fortune to be used to establish San Antonio's first museum of modern art, which today bears her name.\n\nMarion was born in Ohio to Marion and Clara Koogler. A year after her birth, the family moved to El Dorado, Kansas, where her parents purchased a large tract of pasture land. This land later proved to contain substantial oil reserves, and made the family wealthy. This allowed Marion to attend the University of Kansas and the Art Institute of Chicago.\n\nMarion married her first husband, railway manager Don McNay, in 1917. The marriage only lasted 10 months, ending with Don's death from influenza. Although Marion went on to marry (and divorce) four more times, she eventually reverted to using the name McNay for the remainder of her life. She married and financially supported artist Victor Higgins in 1937, but the two separated only two years later and divorced in 1930.\n\nIn 1915, while she was living with her parents, the superintendent of city schools of Marion, Ohio wrote that she \"is one of the best qualified art teachers I have ever known. She teaches art in a manner that arouses and develops the child’s observation and enlarges his aesthetic nature.\"\n\nIn 1926, after the death of her father, Marion moved to San Antonio with her mother and married Dr. Donald Atkinson. On his property, she began to construct a Spanish Mediterranean style mansion (she designed some of the tilework and ceiling stencils herself), which was completed in 1927. She also began to accumulate a significant collection of artwork. The first oil painting she purchased was Diego Rivera’s \"Delfina Flores\". She collected a large number of French Impressionist and Post-Impressionist works of art, early 20th-century modernists including Picasso, Matisse, and Chagall. She also bought a number of Southwestern santos and retablos.\n\nMarion was a significant patron of the arts among the Pueblo Indians of New Mexico, where she made frequent trips. In 1943, Congress proposed a bill providing for the exploration of Pueblo lands with the ultimate goal of building a dam on the Rio Grande. Marion, in conjunction with other conservationists, was instrumental in defeating this proposal.\n\nUpon Marion's death, caused by pneumonia in 1950, she willed her fortune, her art collection, and her home to a trust to convert her home into a modern art museum. This was the first museum of its kind in San Antonio and the Southwest region of the United States. The museum was named after her, and has been expanded to include galleries of medieval and Renaissance artwork and a larger collection of 20th-century European and American modernist work. A large theatre arts library and gallery were also added, as well as an art reference library and an auditorium. More recently, the McNay Art Museum recently added the Stieren Center, built by internationally renowned architect Jean-Paul Viguier, to display their Modern collection.\n"}
{"id": "22906206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22906206", "title": "Maurice-Tièche Comprehensive School", "text": "Maurice-Tièche Comprehensive School\n\nL’Ensemble Scolaire Maurice-Tièche or Maurice Tièche Comprehensive School is a K-13 co-educational, Christian private school owned by the Seventh-day Adventist Church in the region Collonges-sous-Salève of France. It teaches pupils of primary, junior high and senior high school age. The school also has a nursery school offering care to 2 year-olds. It is a part of the Seventh-day Adventist education system, the world's second largest Christian school system. \nThe Maurice-Tièche primary school was founded in 1936 by Maurice Tièche, a graduate from the historic University of Paris (commonly referred to as La Sorbonne). In October 1946, the first year 7 (6ème) class was opened. In October 1948, the rest of the junior high school was opened and the school was renamed \"Le Cours Complémentaire du Séminaire Adventiste\". In 1953, the junior high school became a secondary school under the name \"le Cours Secondaire\". Over 100 pupils were enrolled at that time. In 1973, the secondary school adopted the name \"Cours Privé Maurice Tièche\", then some years later, it became \"Lycée Privé Maurice Tièche\". \n\nThe primary and secondary schools merged into a combined school in 2003 which is now known as \"Ensemble Scolaire Maurice Tièche\".\n\nPupils at the school have access to Bibliothèque Alfred Vaucher (Alfred Vaucher Library) which it shares with the Saleve Adventist University.\n\nThe \"Section Etudes et Sports de Montagne\" (Studies and Mountain Sports section) of the school allows pupils to combine their high school studies and their passion for mountain sports. Preparatory classes start at year 9 but it is possible for students to take up the cycle in senior high school.\n\nThe school has three Baccalauréat général streams in which students can specialise in:\n\nSince 2002, the pass rate for the Baccalauréat scientifique (Sciences) stream has been around 77% while in the littéraire (literature) stream, is around 95%.\n\nThe students in première (Year 12) and terminale (Year 13) are generally in classes of 12 in each of their respective streams. In certain subjects such as French where the programme is joint, students come together to form classes of a maximum of 24 students. This allows teachers to track individual students and address many of their questions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40529911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40529911", "title": "National Museum of Natural History and Science, Lisbon", "text": "National Museum of Natural History and Science, Lisbon\n\nThe National Museum of Natural History and Science in Lisbon, Portugal () is the country's main museum focusing on nature. Established in 1926, the museum functions under the University of Lisbon.\n\nIts rich collections, gathered over more than 250 years, span zoology, anthropology, geology and botany.\n\nThe museum has activities for the promotion of natural history and science awareness, with space for artistic exhibitions, conferences, debates, workshops and courses.\n\nIts public designation is \"MUjHNAC - National Museum of Natural History and Science\". It was founded in October 2011. This unit incorporated the former National Museum of Natural History and the University of Lisbon Science Museum, integrating their collections, the old buildings of the Polytechnic School, the Lisbon Botanical Gardens and the Lisbon Astronomical Observatory (this one since July 2012):\n\nMUjHNAC began in the Royal Natural History Museum and Botanical Garden, created in the second half of the eighteenth century, in Ajuda (western Lisbon). It was then housed for a short period in the Royal Academy of Sciences and transferred to the Polytechnic School (1858), first denominated as the National Museum of Lisbon (1861).\n\nThe Botanic Gardens of Lisbon officially opened in 1878.\n\nIn 1911, with the creation of the University of Lisbon, the Museum was attached to the Faculty of Sciences, taking the name of National Museum of Natural History in 1926.\n\nIn March 1978 a devastating fire destroyed much of the building of the former Polytechnic School, as well as the zoology collection and part of the geology collection. The Faculty then moved to other premises.\n\nThe Science Museum of the University of Lisbon was created in May 1985, sharing the building with the National Museum of Natural History.\n\nBoth museums were given new bylaws in 2003, becoming autonomous from the Faculty of Sciences and under the direct administration of the Rector of the University of Lisbon.\n\n"}
{"id": "11780498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11780498", "title": "Patient education", "text": "Patient education\n\nPatient education is the process by which health professionals and others impart information to patients and their caregivers that will alter their health behaviors or improve their health status.\n\nEducation may be provided by any healthcare professional who has undertaken appropriate training education, education on patient communication and education is usually included in the healthcare professional's training.\n\nHealth education is also a tool used by managed care plans, and may include both general preventive education or health promotion and disease or condition specific education.\n\nImportant elements of patient education are skill building and responsibility: patients need to know when, how, and why they need to make a lifestyle change. Group effort is equally important: each member of the patient’s health care team needs to be involved.It can also help the patients by a better lifestyle, it give them the ability to learn new information. \n\nThe value of patient education can be summarized as follows:\n\nThe competencies of a health educator include the following:\nThere are many areas where patient education can improve the outcomes of treatment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21440341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21440341", "title": "Pete Silver &amp; Will McLean", "text": "Pete Silver &amp; Will McLean\n\nPete Silver & Will McLean are two British architectural practitioners, educators, writers, and technical theorists who work together as a duo. They have taught at the Architectural Association, The Bartlett (University College London), and The University of Westminster's School of Architecture and the Built environment, thus gaining a privileged position in the contemporary London architectural scene.\n\nWill McLean is a Doctor of Philosophy and artist Bruce McLean's son. He trained at the Architectural Association under Will Alsop OBE RA and Professor John Frazer. McLean has worked on a series of projects with Bruce McLean, most notably Dalry Primary School in North Ayrshire completed in 2007 (www.primaryspace.net), and with US architect and artist Adam Kalkin, working on such projects as 'Quik Build' container housing. He has had a regular feature, covering technical innovations, in Architectural Design magazine - McLean's Nuggets, and is an Editor of Construction History - the International Journal of the Construction History Society\nPete Silver worked for Solon Housing Association in South London with architects such as Patrick Keiller, Edward Cullinan and Walter Segal. He trained at the Architectural Association under Professors John Frazer and Gordon Pask, and became a researcher in the Land Use Research Unit at King's College London, gaining a unique insight into Professor Alice Coleman's groundbreaking, if controversial work, on post-war housing regeneration. Silver is a director of the Chartered Practice Architects (CPA) Ltd. His current work involves prototyping new structural (diagrid) frameworks from torsional elastic helixes.\nIn 2001, Silver and McLean joined the School of Architecture and the Built environment at the University of Westminster where they jointly head the Technical Studies Department. \nThey have co-authored four architecture books: \"Fabrication: the designer's guide\" (Architectural Press), \"Introduction to Architectural Technology\" (Laurence King Publishing - available in 7 languages), \"Structural Engineering for Architects: A Handbook\" (Laurence King Publishing, co-authored with engineer Peter Evans - available in 4 languages) and Air Structures (Laurence King Publishing).\nThey co-curate a highly successful public lecture series,\n\nBooks\n\nPeriodicals\n\n\nThe Technical Studies Lectures, hosted by the University of Westminster, offers a platform for the dissemination of ideas from such speakers as those in the following, non-exhaustive list:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10047585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10047585", "title": "Presbyterian University College", "text": "Presbyterian University College\n\nThe Presbyterian University College, Ghana is a partially private & public university located at Abetifi-Kwahu in the Eastern Region of Ghana. It is one of the new universities in Ghana granted accreditation by the National Accreditation Board. It was established by the Presbyterian Church of Ghana on 23 November 2003 and inaugurated on 27 March 2004 by the president of Ghana, John Agyekum Kufuor.\nIt has been ranked the best private university in Ghana and third best after the University of Ghana and KNUST by world university ranking website webometrics.\n\nPer historical accounts, the Presbyterian Church of Ghana established Ghana's first elementary school in the country in 1843 which resulted in the institutionalization of formal education in the country. In 1848, the church founded a teacher-catechist seminary, the Basel Mission Seminary, later known as the Presbyterian Training College (PTC) at Akropong as the second higher educational institution in West Africa after Fourah Bay College in Sierra Leone. This development led to the establishment of several primary and secondary schools and colleges of education through a strategic partnership with the Ghanaian government; specifically, 1,886 schools made up of 490 kindergartens, 973 primary school, 388 junior secondary schools, 25 senior secondary schools, five vocational institutes and five colleges of education. The church has also been instrumental in providing agricultural and health services for citizens.\n\nThe initial plan was to upgrade the Presbyterian Training College at Akropong to a full-fledged university like Fourah Bay College but that did no come into fruition. More than a century and a half later, the Synod of the Presbyterian Church during its 1996 conference voted to establish an actual university culminating in the setting up of an Implementation Committee in 1998. The university sought to augment higher education services to meet to increasing demand for college education. Despite its religious affiliation, the university college welcome students of all backgrounds, ethnicity, religion and geography. The school runs a fee-paying, multi-campus, residential or hostel system in partnership with private enterprise. Its academic programs are in humanities and social sciences, particularly theology, language and mission studies. The school also offers programs in science and technology including health sciences, medicine, dentistry and nursing.\nThe stated objectives in the institutions statutes are as follows:\nFurthermore, the principles underpinning the university's founding include:\n\nThe university has four campuses at Abetifi-Kwahu, Akropong-Akuapem in the Eastern Region, Asante Akyem-Agogo in the Ashanti Region and the city campus at Tema in the Greater Accra Region. Each of these campuses has its own set of faculties and other facilities.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe university is affiliated to the University of Ghana and Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology\n\n"}
{"id": "52905586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52905586", "title": "Priscilla Baird", "text": "Priscilla Baird\n\nPriscilla Baird (1828-1904) was a pioneering teacher in Missouri and Illinois and an advocate for girls' education. She began her career in Shelbyville, Missouri in 1851. She then taught at Liberty Female College and Lancaster schools before relocating to Illinois during the civil war and teaching at the Springfield High School. Returning to Missouri, she taught at Ingleside College in Palmyra, Missouri and at Hardin College in Mexico, Missouri. After completing nearly thirty years of teaching, she founded the Baird College in 1885, where she remained until her retirement in 1897.\n\nPriscilla A. Davis was born in 1828 in Shelby County, Kentucky to Harriet M. (née Bell) and Samuel E. Davis. She studied with private tutors in her youth and attended Julia A. Tevis's Science Hill Female Academy in Shelbyville, Kentucky. At the age of fourteen, she was converted to the Baptist faith through her grandfather Francis Davis and an elder, George Waller. Waller also performed Davis' marriage ceremony on March 12, 1846, when she married Jesse K. Baird in Shelby County. Five years after their marriage, the couple moved to Missouri, along with their three children: M. Belle (born 1847), Thomas D. (born 1849) and Itonia J. (born 1851).\n\nBaird began teaching at a private school in Shelbyville, Missouri around 1851 and remained at the school for four years. The institution was a Baptist school and she taught under the direction of elders W. F. Broadus and John L. Waller. The family then moved to Liberty in Clay County, Missouri, where Baird taught at the Liberty Female College, which was affiliated with the William Jewell College. She and her brother, John T. Davis each served as associate president of the college for four years, before Baird moved to Lancaster, Schuyler County, Missouri. She taught from 1860 to 1863 in Lancaster, but as the Civil War moved west, the family moved to Springfield, Illinois. Baird taught at the Springfield High School for seven years, while her husband, a surveyor by trade, served in the Confederate States Army. Jesse's exposure to the conditions during the war of camp life and long marches, caused health problems. Though he survived the war, he died at the age of 49 in 1871.\n\nWhile in Springfield, Baird was recruited to become the president of Ingleside College in Palmyra, Missouri, where she began work in 1873. She hired an ex-slave, Sina Banks as her cook. Banks would remain with her for the next thirty years. The business manager of the college was Homer T. Baird, with whom Baird would marry on April 25, 1875. In addition to administering the school, Baird taught arithmetic and history, though the fees charged were inadequate to cover the costs of running the establishment, according to one of her former pupils, Robert Coontz, who would become a rear admiral in the United States Navy. She remained at Ingleside for six years and tendered her resignation when she was appointed president of Hardin College and Conservatory of Music. The couple moved to Mexico, Missouri to take up the post and continued with Homer as business manager and Baird serving as the school principal and teacher. During her tenure at Hardin, the school grew from a small number of enrollees to having several hundred students and both of her daughters taught at the school.\n\nIn 1885, the family moved to Clinton, Missouri, where they began operating a school they had founded known as Baird College. Within 2 years of its opening, the school had around 100 boarding students and 300 attendees, being taught art, elocution, languages, and music. Though it was a Christian-based school, it operated as non-denominational. Baird ran the school until 1897, when she decided to close it due to poor health. In 1903, the Bairds moved to Denver, Colorado, where her daughter Itonia was teaching French at West High School.\n\nIn addition to teaching and administrating schools, Baird was active in church work and organized many Sunday school and Bible classes. She served as Secretary of the Missouri Baptist State Women’s Association for many years. She also was a staunch supporter of education for women and girls and presented a paper at the World's Congress of Representative Women in Chicago in 1893, which received wide support.\n\nBaird died on October 13, 1904 in Denver, Colorado. Her three children all became prominent professionals. Her son Thomas D. Baird became a physician and at one time was the president of the Colorado State Board of Medical Examiners. Her two daughters, Belle True and Itonia J. Baird both became educators.\n\n"}
{"id": "39614523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39614523", "title": "Sabah Foundation", "text": "Sabah Foundation\n\nThe Sabah Foundation () or Yayasan Sabah Group (YSG) is a state sanctioned organisation that was developed to promote educational and economic opportunities for its people. It was founded by Tun Mustapha Harun and manages a diverse portfolio of resources and issues.\n\nThe Kota Kinabalu-based think-tank was allowed to be established by 1966 Sabah State Legislative Assembly Enactment No. 8. The foundation was created in 1966 by Tun Mustapha Harun create educational opportunities for the country's Malaysian people. Four years later its scope was expanded to include economic and social advancement. It also coordinates distribution of resources in the event of a natural disaster to those in need. It was Tun Mustapa Harun's further goal \"to promote Malayisation consciousness amongst the people of Sabah.\"\n\nIn 1967, coinciding with the formation of the Sabah Foundation, the Ministry of Natural Resources was abolished. The government gave the foundation 3,300 acres of land and a grant of 1 million ringgit to fund the start-up of the organisation. In 1970, Sabah Foundation was tasked, through a 100-year lease, of managing the 855,000 hectares of virgin forest. Nineteen years later their total holdings were 1.07 million hectares. Sabah's total land area is 7.4 million hectacres. Tun Mustapha withheld earnings is should have paid to the state and used the fund for political purposes, providing proceeds to the electorate and to support his political associates.\n\nHarold Crouch wrote of Tun Mustapha's resulting political power:\nIn late 1975 Tun Mustapha was forced by the government to resign. The Sabah State government then pulled the foundation under the authority of the government. The foundation over-harvested its timber natural resources to fund its political agenda.\n\nAlthough the foundation was no longer a private entity, the state government, led by the Berjaya political party, did not have the control that they expected because financial investments continued to be controlled by Innoprise, an entity and within the foundation responsible for managing its investments. The Sabah Foundation's large budget allows it to continued to manage a diverse range of activities, including reforestation, hospitality and tourism industry, agro-plantation, shipping, real estate development, biotechnology, horticulture, fisheries and food industry, and the oil and gas industry. It continued to wield political power, including state elections between 1978 and 1990.\n\nAfter the Berjaya and until 1994, the Parti Bersatu Sabah (PBS) political party gained control of the government, \"in opposition to the national government\". In 1991 Jeffrey Kitingan, Sabah Foundation head, was detained under the Internal Security Act for 31 months for \"plotting the secession of Sabah from the Malaysian Foundation\" and then fired from his position at the foundation. Charges of corruption were dropped when Jeffrey Kitigan left the PBS political party.\n\nIn 1994, the United Malays National Organisation (UMNO) had political control. During this time Sabah Foundation continued its developmental efforts with little governmental intervention. In 1994 a Price Waterhouse audit revealed that Sabah Foundation accounts were missing more than $1 billion, evidence of accusations of corruption. At that time, Innoprise had more than a dozen subsidiaries with little oversight. Based upon the audit results, Sabah Foundation was reorganised, governmental officials were to site on its board of trustees and Chief Minister Datuk Salleh Tun Said chaired the board.\n\nIn 2012 allegations were brought against the foundation's former Chief Minister Musa Aman for embezzling over $90 million from the foundation.\n\nIn 2018, Shafie Apdal, Sabah Foundation chairman, ordered a full investigation into the financial affairs of Rakyat Berjaya, which is fully owned by the foundation.\n\nFrom the start, one of its goals was to attain opinions from local and international sources. The foundation has a wide Borneo focus and aims to find ways to draw the investment needed for \"peninsula regeneration and prosperity\". The organisation is intended to make a worthwhile contribution to economic growth in Kuala Lumpur-based interested in setting up government policy platforms for economic development.\n\nThe foundation also sent a number of its staff of lecturers at the Universiti Malaysia Sabah, Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia, Universiti Teknologi MARA which has carried out a campaign of Islamisation throughout the state, together with the Federal government assistance to \"infuse Islamic values\" into government administration and civil services, funding Islamic religious establishments and launched a massive Malayisation program to realise its goal. The people who opposed to this were considered “extremist or deviant,” and some people were detained under the Malaysian Internal Security Act (ISA).\n\nSabah Foundation is now under the Sabah Government with three organisational divisions:\n\nWithin Sabah Foundation's Tun Mustapha Tower headquarters complex is the Fuad Stephens Borneo Research Library, named for former Chief Minister Tun Fuad Stephens. It was established with the support of the National Library of Malaysia, Mara Institute of Technology Library, Sabah State Library, Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia Library and the Sabah State Museum Librarian. It is a three-level building with a total area of 3,135.48 square metres. Its objective is to \"undertake strategic initiatives to function as a primary information resource center - contributing towards establishing a knowledge-economic society.\"\n\nFoundation trustees and staff are appointed by the chief minister. The foundation likened to Indonesian President Suharto's administration and \"heavily criticised for its partisan nature\" assuming that it \"was a device for imposing mainstream Malay culture onto Dayak (and in particular Iban) youth\". One year after the organisation's creation, Sabah Foundation's founder, Tun Mustapha Harun, became president of Sabah.\n\nIn the 1970s, logging increased in its concession area. Sabah Foundation has a 100-year logging concession.\n\nThe Sabah Foundation is involved in a number of educational initiatives in Sabah including the Sabah Foundation Technical College (KTYS) and the University College Sabah Foundation.\n\n\n\n\nConservation and rainforest rehabilitation projects\n"}
{"id": "23080421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23080421", "title": "Saint Louis University Madrid Campus", "text": "Saint Louis University Madrid Campus\n\nSaint Louis University - Madrid Campus (SLU-Madrid), founded in 1967, is a 4-year American university in Spain. Saint Louis University is a highly ranked Jesuit institution with campuses in St. Louis, Missouri, and Madrid, Spain. SLU-Madrid offers fully accredited American undergraduate and graduate degrees that can be completed in Spain or combined with studies at the St. Louis campus.\n\nThe student body at SLU-Madrid comprises approximately 750 students from over 65 different countries. English is the language of instruction, with selected courses offered in Spanish. The average class size is 14.8, and the student to faculty ratio is 11:1.\n\nSaint Louis University is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission (HLC) and has been continuously accredited since 1916. The most recent accreditation approval was issued in 2012 following a three-year intensive self-study carried out by a set of university-wide committees, including a subcommittee of the Madrid Campus. The Institutional Actions Council (IAC) of the HLC voted to continue the accreditation of Saint Louis University, with the next comprehensive evaluation set for 2021-22.\n\nThe university has also attained accreditation from appropriate professional bodies for specific programs; for example, the John Cook School of Business, through which the Madrid campus offers its International Business program, is accredited by AACSB International (Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business), the premier business school accrediting body. Engineering degrees are accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET).\n\nThe Madrid campus was founded in 1967 by Raymond L. Sullivant as a study abroad program. Classes were offered in conjunction with the Universidad Pontificia Comillas, a Spanish Jesuit institution. The success of the study abroad program led Sullivant to develop an independent, permanent program, with administrative offices and classrooms located between Madrid's Complutense University and the city center.\n\nShortly thereafter, a number of Spanish students, attracted to the university's liberal arts curriculum, enrolled in classes. Within a decade, SLU-Madrid was home to hundreds of students. As the programs expanded, students were able to complete the first two years of their undergraduate studies in Madrid. By 2005, students were able to complete all four years of their degree and graduate in Madrid.\n\nIn 1990, SLU-Madrid acquired Padre Rubio and Padre Arrupe Halls. In 1996, the university became the first U.S. institution to receive official recognition from the \"Consejería de Educación y Deporte\", Madrid's higher education authority. In 2011, the university expanded the Madrid Campus further with the acquisition and renovation of San Ignacio Hall, providing additional space to support students and faculty, including a new library, cafeteria and auditorium.\n\nToday, students from more than 65 countries pursue undergraduate and graduate courses at SLU-Madrid. The campus offers four-year undergraduate degrees and graduate degrees, and hosts study abroad students from more than 150 universities in the U.S. and worldwide. Recognized as a center of international education in Spain, SLU-Madrid remains committed to the ideals of service and leadership that the university, its students, faculty, and staff have upheld since 1818, when the St. Louis Campus was founded.\n\nPadre Arrupe Hall houses administrative and faculty offices, classrooms, and biology, chemistry, computer, nursing and physics labs. Padre Rubio Hall, the main academic building, features additional classrooms, the Office of Student Life, student lounges, the bookstore and St. Timothy's Chapel. San Ignacio Hall, acquired in 2011, is home to an auditorium, art, dance and music studios, additional classrooms, a full-service cafeteria and dining room, the library, faculty offices and a rooftop terrace.\n\nIn addition to over 10,000 volumes that are available in the Madrid library, students in Madrid have access to the vast collection of electronic resources and databases owned by Saint Louis University.\n\nThe Billiken is Saint Louis University's distinctive mascot and has been for 100 years. The SLU mascot is a representation of the one-of-a-kind educational experience students receive during their time as SLU students.\n\nThe courses offered at SLU-Madrid fulfill degree requirements for the nearly 100 undergraduate majors available through Saint Louis University. Students may complete all 120 credits hours for the following degrees on the campus in Madrid:\n\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>One semester required at the St. Louis Campus.\n\nStudents pursuing other majors including engineering, computer science, and nursing can complete the first two years of study in Madrid before transferring to the St. Louis Campus to finish their degree.\n\nSLU-Madrid also hosts visiting students from over 150 different universities across the United States and around the world. Study abroad students choose from more than 200 courses each semester, including classes in engineering, health sciences and other non-traditional study abroad fields.\n\nSLU-Madrid offers two M.A. programs:\n\n\nStudents may fulfill all requirements for the M.A. programs in Madrid, or through a combination of study at the Madrid Campus and the St. Louis Campus.\n\nThe M.A. in Spanish program focuses on Spanish and Latin American language, culture and literature. The program can be completed over the course of three or four summers, or during the academic year. The program is designed for holders of a B.A. in Spanish or a related field, language educators, and literary scholars.\n\nAdditionally, the Madrid Campus hosts the SLU Summer Law School.\n\nThe Office of Student Life sponsors a wide range of extracurricular activities, both on and off campus, including trips that deepen students’ cultural understanding of Spain or that complement their studies by taking them to destinations around Spain, Europe, and Africa. Clubs include the Student Government Association, the Gay-Straight Alliance, the International Relations Society, Poker Club, the Glee Club, Film Club, Debate Club, among others.\n\nCampus Ministry organizes a program of activities for exploring faith and a commitment to social justice. Each semester, the university sponsors a retreat to Loyola, the birthplace of St. Ignatius, the founder of the Jesuit order. The Ignatian Community Council organizes panel discussions, service projects, documentary film viewings, and interfaith activities to encourage dialogue within the diverse religious community on campus and address the tough issues of social justice the world faces today.\n\nIn keeping with the Jesuit mission of the university, SLU-Madrid offers its students, faculty and staff opportunities for living out their identity as \"men and women for others\" through community service and outreach. Volunteers collaborate with dozens of local NGOs. Projects include teaching English to hearing-impaired children, serving meals in a soup kitchen, and raising money for the Red Cross.\n\nSLU-Madrid offers career counseling, practice interviews, résumé critiques and workshops/ networking events on campus.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8098735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8098735", "title": "Science Learning Centres", "text": "Science Learning Centres\n\nScience Learning Centres are a UK Government initiative to address the need for improved science education and development for teachers in England.\n\nIn 2001, the House of Lords Science & Technology Select Committee Report identified an urgent need for subject specific Continuing Professional Development for Science Teachers. In response to this and numerous other calls for action, the Department for Education and Skills and the Wellcome Trust invested £51 million in the creation of the national network of Science Learning Centres. After a competitive tendering process the first Science Learning Centre opened its doors in October 2004. Today the Centres are more than just a location for training courses, they are rapidly becoming the focus for all science education activity in the UK.\n\nScience Learning Centres run courses that provide continuing professional development for \"anyone\" involved in the teaching of science, from those working with reception aged children to post 16 students, including primary and secondary teachers, technicians, teaching assistants and FE lecturers.\n\nThe aim of all Science Learning Centres is to reconnect teachers with the frontiers of their subject and the latest techniques for teaching it. Teachers who attend courses are given the opportunity to renew and extend their teaching skills by mixing with and learning from colleagues who face similar challenges to their own, and have access to the UK’s leading experts in science educational research.\n\nThere are 10 Science Learning Centres around the country. One to serve each of the nine English government regions and a National Science Learning Centre (based in the University of York) which provides training for anyone from England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland. Each Centre is run by a consortium of organisations, which vary from local councils and professional bodies to universities, schools, science centres and industry partners.\n\n\nThe courses offered at the regional Centres usually feature one day’s training at the Centre, together with ongoing support through classroom exercises and online materials. The National Science Learning Centre, based at the University of York, offers residential courses for teachers, providing access to the facilities for teachers of two or more days, often spread across more than one term.\n\nThe national network of Science Learning Centres has been created with ambitious goals in mind; not least to help British teachers, lecturers, technicians and classroom assistants to lead the world in science education by 2015.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072082", "title": "Senior Cambridge", "text": "Senior Cambridge\n\nThe Senior Cambridge examinations were General Certificate of Education examinations held in Pakistan, Malaysia, Singapore, India, and Jamaica. They were preceded by the Junior Cambridge and Preliminary Cambridge examinations.\n\nThe first school in Delhi to offer the Senior Cambridge examination was the Cambridge School at Daryaganj. After 1972, the Senior Cambridge examinations were largely superseded by the Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) and the Indian School Certificate(ISC) examinations conducted by the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE), an autonomous body established in 1958.\n\nDuring the Japanese occupation of Malaysia in World War II, pupils who sat their Senior Cambridge examinations at some schools in 1941 had to wait until 1946 to learn their results. It was replaced with the Sijil Tinggi Persekolahan Malaysia during the late 1970s.\n\nAt its independence from British India in 1947, Pakistan inherited a number of schools that offered Senior Cambridge examinations. But one of the first schools to offer Senior Cambridge was Cathedral School Hall Road Lahore. Since then, the number of schools with a Senior Cambridge curriculum expanded greatly, and Cambridge schools are prominent among the premier educational institutions of Pakistan.\n\nPrior to the introduction of the O Levels examinations by UCLES, students sat for the Senior Cambridge examinations at the end of their four-year secondary school studies. This is equivalent to the General Certificate of Secondary Education (or GCSE) in England. The Higher School Certificate (HSC) examinations were replaced by A Levels (roughly equivalent to the present British \"sixth form\") in 1973.\n\nAt the Victoria Institution in 1933, the following list of school textbooks was issued to pupils preparing to study for the Senior Cambridge examinations:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12778689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12778689", "title": "Sreevalsan J. Menon", "text": "Sreevalsan J. Menon\n\nSreevalsan J. Menon is an Indian Carnatic vocalist and a music composer from Kerala.\n\nAfter initial training under Rajalakshmi Krishnan (disciple of Chembai Vaidyanatha Bhagavathar) and violinist T.V. Ramani at Thrissur, Menon had much of his advanced tutelage under the late Neyyattinkara Vasudevan. Menon is an 'A' grade artist of All India Radio and has given concerts all over the country including the National Concerts of AIR and Doordarshan. He has received several awards including Kerala Sangeetha Nataka Akademi Award 2013, from the Madras Music Academy, and a title from Krishna Gana Sabha, also in Chennai, besides such institutions of repute in the Deccan. He has also participated in Music Transcends, a symphony held at Washington, D.C. in 2004, integrating Western and Indian classical music. His jugalbandis with Hindustani vocalist Ramesh Narayan and late Kathakali musicians Kalamandalam Sankaran Embranthiri and Kalamandalam Hyderali have been widely appreciated.\n\nMenon's two songs (\"I Be Here\" and \"I Have Secrets\") and background score for Saint Dracula has been qualified for songs and original score categories of 85th Academy Awards.\n\nThe background score by Sreevalsan for the film Ottaal which won the crystal bear at the Berlin festival 2016 was praised for its laid back music in the award citation. \n\nKnown for the spiritual quality of his renditions, Sreevalsan's carnatic music style is marked by a majestic sweep in Krithi rendering, brevity in alapana, meaningful Niraval elaborations; all in sync with a perfect alignment to Sruthi.\n\nSreevalsan has also carved a niche area for himself through his thematic musical productions on the Rains, Seasons, Rasas and Temples of Kerala. \n\nMenon is married to Indu since 8 September 1996 and they have a daughter Subadra and a son Narayanan who are also known for their musical talent.\n\nMenon's music albums are fresh and innovative. They include Vanaprastham, a musical interpretation of the famous short story by M.T. Vasudevan Nair; \"Monsoon Anuraga\" a musical experience on monsoon rains. \"Vismaya\", a fantasy video album featuring \"Artist Namboodiri\", M T Vasudevan Nair and menon himself. He has given Carnatic vocal performances and lecture demonstrations throughout India, the Middle East, UK, US, Canada and Africa.\n\nMenon works as Professor at the Kerala Agricultural University in Thrissur, and has a Ph D in Agricultural Extension from IARI, New Delhi. (He earned his doctorate with research on the social impact of rubber cultivation.) A native of Kunissery in Palakkad district, Menon lives in the temple town of Tripunithura off Kochi.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "964384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=964384", "title": "Teacher in role", "text": "Teacher in role\n\nTeacher in role is a method of teaching that utilizes techniques of drama to facilitate education. It is a holistic teaching method designed to integrate critical thought, examination of emotion and moral values and factual data to broaden the learning experience and make it more relevant to everyday life situations. \nIf the role of a teacher is to teach, the role of a student must be to learn. However, it has been agreed that learning is not only an exercise in reading and reciting facts, but in gaining a deeper insight of events and situations. This is where drama becomes an invaluable tool. Through the use of drama and dramatic conventions a teacher does not only teach and learn the \"what\" but also the \"why\" and \"how\".\n\nDrama techniques in education allows students to take a step back out of usual teaching techniques. Students are able to communicate better in conceptual, personal and social levels as they are able to be a listener and speaker and reviver of knowledge. By using role-play, the teacher gives them a way to view and think about a situation using the \"implied\" behaviour for the role they are given. In turn, the teacher can allow the students to become in charge of their own learning and facilitate them in it. We empower the individual making their expertise greater than our own. Through role-playing, they gain knowledge of what the role entails.\n\n\"Teacher in role\" strategy allows students to build there imaginary further while questioning,challenging and processing their thoughts. Whilst gaining knowledge it also improves personal social techniques in students like eye contact and gestures. They adopt to different characters personalities and communicate that to the class, teachers are able to protect any sense of failure by encouraging and supporting any type of work and what they came up with, as every student has a different mind.\n\nOne of the best teacher in roles practices in a TV talk show interviewing various people from educational books/stories. Whilst students are teaching they are also learning themselves whilst getting a complete different way of learning. Children like when things are interesting, fun and different, drama techniques in education provides fun although still educational purposes.\n\nWe each adopt different 'roles' in everyday situations, these roles change with the situation, we all have numerous roles in life. We can imagine those roles as hats that we wear at appropriate times (e.g. son, brother, teacher, employee). These roles have \"implied\" behaviour, which we all know. It is this implied social behaviour which we can use in drama and dramatic situations to create deeper understanding and meanings.\nThe role of a teacher in society is both significant and valuable.It has far-reaching influence on the society he lives in and no other personality can have an influence more profound than that of a teacher. Students are deeply affected by the teacher's love and affection, character, competence, and moral commitment. A popular teacher becomes a model for his/her students. The students try to follow their teacher in his/her manners, costumes, etiquette, style of conversation and his/her get up. He/she is their ideal.\n\nDuring the early education, the students tend to determine their aims in life and their future plans, in consultation with their teachers. Therefore, a good and visionary teacher can play a prominent role in making the future of his/her students while as a corrupt teacher can only harm his/her students much more seriously than a class of corrupt and perverted judiciary, army, police, bureaucracy, politicians or technocrats. A corrupt and incompetent teacher is not only a bad individual, but also an embodiment of a corrupt and incompetent generation. A nation with corrupt teachers is a nation at risk.\n\nThe importance of a teacher as an architect of our future generations demands that only the best and the most and competent members of our intelligentsia be allowed to qualify for this noble profession. It is unfortunate to find that generally the worst and the most incapable people of the society find their way into this profession. Anyone who fails to find an opening in any other walk of life, gets into this profession and recklessly plays with the destiny of the nation. An important reason for this is understood to be the poor salaries of our primary and secondary teachers which are no better than that of clerks. A large number of our teachers is, therefore, frustrated and uninterested. A currently relevant example is prevalent in South Africa where teachers are resigning or taking early retirement options en masse between 2012 and 2016.\n\nThey have to go for part-time jobs to meet their basic needs. Again, the teaching profession also does not enjoy due respect in the society. The primary and secondary teachers are particularly at a disadvantage. Their status is lower than that of doctors, engineers, advocates, civil servants; even lower than that of semi literate and illiterate traders. It would therefore require great commitment for an intelligent individual, however fond of education and training he may be, to forsake the career of a doctor or engineer in favour of teaching. Therefore, while selecting good teachers, it must be borne in mind that better opportunities, prospects and perks are offered to the teachers.\n\nWhen we speak of good teachers, it means that a teacher must be a model of faith and piety and should have a fairly good knowledge . A teacher should consider it his duty to educate and train his students and should feel responsible for it. He should feel that his students have been entrusted to him and he should avoid any breach of the trust the society has reposed in him, he should be able to be a sociable person with his roots in the society, people should take him as their well-wisher and a sincere friend who cares for their children. It should be ascertained at all cost that a candidate for this profession has a natural acumen and aptitude for teaching.\n\nTeachers need to actively participate in the social activities in a positive way and know the art of teaching with a deep insight into child psychology. Always dealing with the students in a just manner not losing any self-control is an important part of being a teacher, respecting their students, feelings, ego and trying to understand and resolve their difficulties with grace is important in being a teacher. He should be able to smile in the face of bitter criticism on his opinions, and should not feel ashamed or humiliated to accept his mistakes wholeheartedly. He should be proud of his culture, his national dress and his national language.He should be a missionary, a mentor, a reformer and a guide besides being a dedicated tutor. In other words, he should be a perfect teacher and a perfect education.\n\nMantle of the Expert is a drama in education device designed by Dorothy Heathcote. In Mantle of the Expert, students are in-role as experts in any given area. They cannot be simply told that they are experts, they have to really take on the role, and feel as if they are experts. This can be done through a number of character development games or exercises. The teacher is generally in-role in Mantle of the Expert, and provides a structure upon which the students can build to gradually progress to more independent learning. Mantle of the Expert is described, explained and exemplified in the book \"Drama for Learning: Dorothy Heathcote's Mantle of the Expert Approach to Education\", by Dorothy Heathcote and Gavin Bolton.\n\n"}
{"id": "27875820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27875820", "title": "The African Children's Educational Trust", "text": "The African Children's Educational Trust\n\nThe African Children's Educational Trust (A-CET) is a charity that helps to support education of African children through provision of scholarships and upgrading community elementary rural schools. By 2012 A-CET had built or upgraded nine schools in Northern Ethiopia. The charity was founded in 1997 by David Stables.\n\nA-CET upgraded a local school in the Tigray Region of Northern Ethiopia in 2005, it is now a full elementary school with eight grades.\n\nThis school was officially opened October 2010.\n\nThis school was completed in 2007. It is a high quality junior school of four grades and can accommodate up to 400 students in one shift.\n\nThis school brings closer access and better long-term educational facilities to over 400 of the most vulnerable rural youngsters, many of whom without this school, probably would not have this opportunity to attain any education at all.\n\nOriginally two local built dark classrooms plus a shack with less than 100 students, this is now has eight bright, airy and cool classrooms basically furnished, and is a full elementary school accommodating for over 400 youngsters from grades 1 to 8. ASD has helped so much so now the school is able to use computers, and other facilities.\n\nCurrently this school has grades 1–5 with planned grades up to 8 and a capacity of 500 students. Two thirds of the students at this school are female.\n\nCurrently the school has only three grades. To continue any education children have to walk for well over an hour one-way to nearby Mynebri. This project started in December 2009 and will bring a proper school closer to a village community that really needs it to give their children a chance for a better future. Scheduled opening is planned for 26 September 2010.\n\nThis residential school attached to St. Michael's Cathedral in Mek'ele, has about 112 youngsters, over a third of whom are blind or otherwise disabled, some doubly afflicted.\n\nThe church is their only refuge and offers them security and a life-times employment. This project included seven dormitory blocks, a shower and separate latrine block plus a washing area. From start to finish this took less than six months and included strong bunk beds and furnishings for all boys.\n\nThe Ziban Albe (Hilltop) school in Hiwane was opened in April 2012. This was the largest school project of the charity with 20 classrooms in five blocks. The school has a solar powered computer classroom.\n\n"}
{"id": "51253102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51253102", "title": "The WISE Awards", "text": "The WISE Awards\n\nThe World Innovation Summit for Education is an international initiative aimed at transforming education through innovation. WISE was established by Qatar Foundation in 2009 under the patronage of its chairperson, Sheikha Mozah bint Nasser.\n\nEach year the WISE Awards recognize and promotes six projects that address global educational challenges. A pre-jury composed of education experts assesses submissions and selects a shortlist of fifteen finalists. Following this, a jury chooses the six award-winning projects. Winners receive a cash prize of $20,000. The first WISE Awards were handed out in 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "7018227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7018227", "title": "Universities and antisemitism", "text": "Universities and antisemitism\n\nUniversities in many countries have been the site of antisemitic policies and practices at different times in their history. Several universities have restricted the admission of Jewish students, as well as the hiring and retention of Jewish faculty. In some instances, universities have supported antisemitic government policies and condoned the development of an antisemitic culture on campus. In most democratic countries, officially sanctioned university antisemitism was phased out in the years after World War II.\n\nIn recent years, accusations of antisemitism have sometimes been made in relation to the activities of pro-Palestinian organizations on university campuses. These accusations are controversial and have almost always been rejected by the organizations in question.\n\nHistorian Gerald Tulchinsky has written that Canadian universities were \"rife with antisemitism\" in the early twentieth century. Some universities restricted Jewish admission, Jews were banned from many fraternities and sororities, and many Jewish medical students were unable to find placements in Canada after graduation. (Despite this, Tulchinsky has also written that Canadian universities were \"not hotbeds of antisemitism\" in general and, indeed, that they played a significant role in the development of a Canadian Jewish culture.)\n\n\nMcGill University imposed strict quotas on Jewish students in 1920. Before the quotas were introduced, Jewish students represented 25 per cent of arts students and 40 per cent of law students. These percentages fell significantly in the following years. Qualified Jewish graduates sometimes faced discrimination when applying for positions at both McGill and the University of Toronto.\n\nMcGill continued to impose a 10 per cent quota on Jewish medical students until the 1960s; it was sometimes noted that the francophone Université de Montréal, unlike McGill, did not restrict Jewish admission after World War II. The University of Toronto's medical school also required higher marks of Jewish students until the 1960s, and Toronto's Jewish Mount Sinai Hospital was denied status as a teaching hospital until 1962.\n\n\nIn 1912, despite strong protests from Canada's Jewish community, the Government of Ontario approved a new constitution for Queen's University that included a phrase affirming that \"the trustees shall satisfy themselves of the Christian character of those appointed to the teaching staff.\" In 1919, newly appointed principal R. Bruce Taylor made antisemitic statements at a meeting of university alumni, saying that \"[t]he presence of many Jews tended to lower the tone of Canadian Universities.\" At least one graduate protested against this statement to the university's chancellor. Notwithstanding these developments, Tulchinsky has written that Queen's was \"mildly more liberal\" than McGill and the University of Toronto in accepting Jewish students and hiring Jewish faculty. Unlike the other universities, Queen's admitted German Jewish refugees as students in the 1930s and 1940s.\n\nMoshe Y. Herczl has written that universities were part of a larger phenomenon of antisemitism that took place in Hungary after World War I. Christian university students, sometimes joined by their professors, took part in violent demonstrations against Jewish student enrollment during the autumn of 1919. The authorities were forced to temporarily close the universities as a result of the disruption. Shortly thereafter, the Hungarian government prepared a law limiting Jewish enrollment to about six per cent of the total university population.\n\nSeveral departments at Peter Pazmany Catholic University in Budapest supported the proposed quota, as did the administration at the Technical University of Budapest. Some professors called for Jews to be banned from Hungarian universities entirely. After some debate, the Hungarian parliament passed the quota legislation by a vote of fifty-seven to seven. It came into effect at the beginning of the 1920 academic year, coinciding with another round of antisemitic rioting on campuses. The number of Jews in Hungarian academic institutions fell dramatically in this period; at the University of Budapest, the numbers declined from 4,288 in 1917–18 to only 459 in 1920–21. Several European Jewish organizations opposed the Hungary quota law, arguing that it created a precedent that would be followed by other governments.\n\nAntisemitic rioting continued at Hungarian universities into the 1930s; Jewish students were ostracized and often physically attacked. Christian student associations introduced a petition in 1933 that called for a strict enforcement of government quotas, while other groups passed antisemitic manifestos. The disruption once again led to a temporary closing of the universities.\n\nFurther antisemitic legislation was passed by the Hungarian parliament in 1939, on the eve of World War II. Among many other things, this legislation further restricted Jewish enrollment in universities.\n\nEvidence of antisemitic incidents on university campuses across North America, Europe, and Australia since 2000 have been recorded by a number of sources. Though the circumstances surrounding the reported incidents are disputed, some maintain that campus activism supportive of the Palestinians and critical of Israel has created an atmosphere of anti-Jewish intimidation that erupts periodically in hate speech and even violence.<ref name=\"zoloth1/3\">Zoloth, Laurie. \"Fear and Loathing at San Francisco State\" in Rosenbaum, Ron. \"Those who forget the past\". Random House, 2004, pp. 1–3.</ref> Others acknowledge that antisemitic incidents have occurred, but dispute the extent of them, and contend that commentators have conflated political anger with ethnic or religious hatred in an attempt to chill legitimate debate.\n\nIn Australia, Daniel Wyner of the Australasian Union of Jewish Students, says that the \"vilification we feel as students on campus ... [is] coming almost entirely from the left.\" Grahame Leonard, president of the Executive Council of Australian Jewry, says July 2006 had the most antisemitic incidents since records began in 1945, and that many of the incidents were on campus. In Sydney, some Jewish students have started to wear hats over their kippahs. Deon Kamien, former Victorian president of the Union of Jewish Students, told \"The Age\": \"It's not something I can put in words. A lot of students who would feel very comfortable wearing a kippah or T-shirt with Hebrew words on it now feel they are being targeted as Jews — not supporters of Israel, but Jews. When they walk past socialist stalls (on campus) they are called f---ing Jews.\"\n\nIn September 2002, then-former Israeli prime minister Binyamin Netanyahu was prevented from delivering a speech at Concordia University in Montreal after a student protest turned violent. Some protesters harassed the predominantly Jewish audience that had arrived for the speech, and there were reports of Holocaust survivors being assaulted. Figures such as World Jewish Congress secretary Avi Beker described the incident as indicative of an \"anti-Semitic campaign\" on North American campuses, while journalist Lysiane Gagnon accused the university's pro-Palestinian students union of \"refus[ing] to blame those who broke windows, threw chairs around, spat at and shoved the Jewish students who wanted to hear Mr. Netanyahu\". The student union's vice-president of communications rejected Gagnon's charge, saying that his organization had on many occasions \"publicly condemned any acts of physical violence [...] especially those acts that were anti-Semitic or anti-Arab in nature.\" A representative of Concordia's Solidarity for Palestinian Human Rights organization claimed that only a small minority of protesters had engaged in violent acts and argued that the protest itself was justified.\n\nThe author Rick Salutin argues that accusations of a \"new anti-Semitism\" in contemporary Canada are usually unspecific, and do not include verifiable names or quotations. He has also written that incidents of \"name calling and group hate\" at protests are not indicative of a new wave of antisemitism, which is universally regarded as unacceptable within mainstream Canadian discourse.\n\nIn France, Patrick Klugman, President of the Union of French Jewish Students (UEJF), wrote in \"Le Figaro\": \"On some university campuses like Nanterre, Villetaneuse and Jussieu, the climate has become very difficult for Jews. In the name of the Palestinian cause, they are castigated as if they were Israeli soldiers! We hear 'death to the Jews' during demonstrations which are supposed to defend the Palestinian cause. Last April, our office was the target of a Molotov cocktail. As a condition for condemning this attack, the lecturers demanded that the UEJF declare a principled position against Israel!\"\n\nIn the UK, the \"Report of the All-Party Parliamentary Inquiry into Anti-Semitism\" reported that \"when left wing or pro-Palestinian discourse is manipulated and used as a vehicle for anti-Jewish language and themes, the anti-Semitism is harder to recognize and define ...\"\n\nThe inquiry heard that members of the Islamist party Hizb-ut-Tahrir had been invited to University College, London to give presentations. Hizb-ut-Tahrir was also active at Queen Mary, University of London; Kingston University; and Birmingham City University.\n\nThe report describes how \"tensions and incidents on campus often peak around students' union votes concerning Israel and Zionism,\" listing by way of example several incidents precipitated by a 2002 University of Manchester students' union motion to declare that anti-Zionism was not antisemitism, and that Israeli goods should be boycotted. During the voting phase, according to the Jewish Representative Council of Greater Manchester, a leaflet from the General Union of Palestinian Students quoting a neo-Nazi forgery entitled \"Prophecy of Benjamin Franklin in Regard of the Jewish Race\", was handed out to students lining up to vote. The leaflet described Jews as vampires, and said that if they were not expelled from the United States, they would \"enslave the country and destroy its economy.\" When the motion was defeated, a brick was thrown through the window of one Jewish student residence while a poster with the words \"Slaughter the Jews\" was stuck to its front door, and a knife was stuck in the door of another.\n\nA survey published in February 2015 by Trinity College and the Louis D. Brandeis Center for Human Rights under Law found that 54% of the participants had been subject to or witnessed antisemitism on their campus. The survey had a 10-12% response rate, does not claim to be representative, and included 1,157 self-identified Jewish students at 55 campuses nationwide. The most significant origin for antisemitism, according to the survey was \"from an individual student\" (29%). Other origins were: In clubs/societies, in lecture/class, in student union, etc.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37475157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37475157", "title": "University of Mediterranean Karpasia", "text": "University of Mediterranean Karpasia\n\nUniversity of Mediterranean Karpasia (UMK; in ) is a private university founded in North Nicosia, Northern Cyprus in 2012.\n\nThe medium of instruction at University of Mediterranean Karpasia is English in most departments.\n\nUniversity of Mediterranean Karpasia has 4 Faculties and 1 School offering courses at undergraduate and postgraduate levels. An English Preparatory School is available for those who need to improve their English before starting to study at the specialist programs of the faculties.\n\nThe university's first graduation ceremony with 72 graduations was on 8 July 2015.\n\n\n\n\nThe university is currently located into two city campus in North Nicosia, Northern Cyprus.\n"}
{"id": "13014666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13014666", "title": "Wayne B. Nottingham Prize", "text": "Wayne B. Nottingham Prize\n\nThe Wayne B. Nottingham Prize is awarded annually at the Physical Electronics Conference (PEC), a conference that focuses on new research results in the field of surface science and in the sub-fields of physics and chemistry of interfaces. The Nottingham Prize was established from contributions given in memory of Professor Wayne B. Nottingham of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology by many of his friends and associates. It was first given in March 1966 at MIT and in March thereafter until February 1974 when the PEC was held at Bell Labs in Murray Hill, NJ. This was to avoid overlap in time with the American Physical Society \"March\" meeting which in the 1970s was about 30 times larger than the PEC. Due to the February weather leading to icy roads and delays in the scheduled events, in 1975 the PEC was moved to June where it still is today. The prize currently consists of a certificate and in 1974 was $200 but has increased recently to $1,500, and is awarded to the best student paper presented at the conference. A student paper is defined as a paper based on a Ph.D. thesis whose date of submission to the faculty is no earlier than one year before the meeting at which the Prize is given.\n\n\n"}
