{"id": "4405107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4405107", "title": "Active Disassembly", "text": "Active Disassembly\n\nActive Disassembly (AD) is a developing technology which is associated with the term Active Disassembly using Smart Materials (ADSM)\n\nSmart materials such as shape memory alloys (SMA) are now offering the possibility of allowing complex items to be disassembled easily and in a potentially cost-effective manner. Other smart materials employed by AD include, shape memory polymers (SMP), smart layers, sprays, engineering polymers etc. The development of this technology could make recycling of consumer products more common and thus serve to be environmentally friendly.\n\nCompanies designing and manufacturing a range of consumer goods are becoming increasingly subject to legislative and other pressures requiring them to consider the \"End of Life\" (EoL) implications of their products. The ELV (End of Life Vehicle) Directive in Europe, for example, states that the current reuse and recycling level of 75% (by weight) has to be raised to 85% by 2015. The WEEE (Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment) Directive is aimed at the eradication of landfill as a means of disposing of hazardous materials such as arsenic in LEDs. Manufacturers are also required to build strategies for disassembly into the design of their products. In the past designing products such as cars rarely involved consideration of what would happen when they were scrapped, although some companies, such as BMW have been pro-active in this respect.\n\nDr. Chiodo is the inventor of AD and ADSM technology. He focused his research on thermally triggered disassembly using shape memory materials. His work first started in recycling related design solutions since the late 1980s. In 1991, his MA thesis investigated Design for Disassembly providing incentive for a new automated approach to what was at the time, a cumbersome endeavour. He conducted experiments including crude force methods to highly tuned approaches such as temperature, electrical resistance, vibration, volume, explosive, chemical, induction and bio triggered disassembly techniques.\n\nSince then, this work has expanded to a variety of dematerialization technology including expanded triggering mechanisms, varied hierarchical control parameters, increased temperature allowances among other considerations including the aforementioned. Dr. Chiodo invented hundreds of AD, ADSM and other automated technology mechanisms since his initial inventions in 1996. His recent work includes specific component isolation and clean segregation of specific elements for re-use including LCDs. In 1996, he conducted disassembly and shape memory experiments using typical engineering polymers such as PEEK, ABS, PC, Nylon and others; manipulating their shape memory properties for potentially more cost effective active disassembly alternatives. This work has been re-addressed by H.Hussein, Dr. Mark Allen and Dr. David Harrison in a paper published in 2009 with results from collaborative work between Dr. Chiodo, Motorola, Nokia, Sony, Gaiker, Indumetal, IKP etc. but has so far produced only pre-competitive results.\n\nFrom 1996, this field has gained an increased popularity by industry which has led to more extensive research. Dr. Nick Jones has conducted work on ELVs among a variety of other novel approaches to AD using electrically triggered SMA mechanisms. Dr. Jones and Dr. Chiodo have recently developed a SMA NiTi releasing mechanism for LCD panels. These are for clean and non-destructive dismantling of macro assemblies' of desktop and laptop displays. It consists of an automated electrically triggered fine wire that lies dormant until triggered at EoL.\n\nDr. Jones has developed a group of applications for the ELV market. These include SMA devices for airbags, SMP devices for glass removal and a novel velcro releasing mechanism.\n\nDr. Neubert explored the field of active disassembly further by looking at other trigger methods to initiate disassembly. His conceptual ideas to use the volume increase of frozen water to disconnect certain parts of a product or to use soluble fasteners, are described in his dissertation published in 2000.\n\nBarbara Willems elaborated on this research by focusing on the \"pressure cells\" described by Neubert. She developed a mathematical model to determine the optimal shape and dimensions of a pressure-activated fastener. Implemented in a product, these snap-fit-like fasteners enable dismantling through variations in ambient pressure. Since pressure variations are very unlikely to occur during the normal life-time of an electrical product, this trigger mechanism offers a more secure way of disassembly compared to temperature based triggering.\n\nAward-winning research in the 2013 Journal, Assembly Automation:, a world survey of smart materials used in active disassembly was conducted in 2012. This work was done by Dr. Chiodo and Dr. Jones. This is currently noted in the 'Active Disassembly Blog'.\n\nDr. Chiodo's work continues to investigate AD employing materials 'made smart'. Some applications include interstitial layers, modular mechanisms, disassembly functions and other DfX eco-design strategies. Some of this work is described in the Circular Economy area, see the Circular Economy and original posting at Ellen MacAurther Foundation website.\n\nIn Japan, U.S.A. and EU, various research departments in universities have investigated various strands of the technology. While there remains to be any mass-produced and implemented applications of the technology in industry, work continues to this end.\n\nDr. Ijomah has been investigating the application of AD technology applying it to the re-manufacturing of electronic products. To date, the work has been conducted with Dr. Chiodo with some papers on the topic in various journals.\n\nMost consumer products consist of a large number of parts and a wide range of materials. Disassembly at the end of a product's useful life is an inevitably complex and time consuming operation to ensure effective separation of all component parts for subsequent re-use or recycling. AD techniques permit the automation or semi-automation of this process and thus make it more viable. The incorporation of AD and the implications of companies taking responsibility for the end of life recycling of their products will have long term cost implications for the consumer.\n\nThere are currently significant obstacles preventing this technology to succeeding in the mass market. (cost, re-training, fin-cap/law-cap, arbitrage, legislative practice...to be continued.\n\nA wide range of methods are being developed for use in AD. These methods generally require the use of smart materials which respond to a stimulus in order to change shape or size and thus facilitate the release of parts. The materials involved include shape memory polymers (SMP) and Shape Memory Alloys (SMA). These materials offer significant shape changes at a range of transition temperatures, which are achieved by methods involving infrared, microwave, supercooling, chemicals and direct heat. The range of \"trigger temperatures\" for various smart materials means that it is possible to place the products in a heated environment where the outer elements become detached and then move on to a higher temperature zone where internal parts and sub-assemblies are dismantled.\n\nRecently, other materials employed for AD, by Dr. Chiodo, have been further investigated from their initial work started in 1996. The repertoire of 'smart materials' and other approaches continues to expand.\n\nScrews, rivets, ribbons, bars and clips, specially designed to facilitate AD, can be manufactured from smart materials such as SMAs and SMPs. These will trigger at a pre-determined temperature, depending on the specific application.\n\n"}
{"id": "7049347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7049347", "title": "Albanian mafia", "text": "Albanian mafia\n\nThe Albanian mafia or Albanian organized crime () are the general terms used for criminal organizations based in Albania or composed of ethnic Albanians. Albanian organized crime is active in Europe, North America, South America, and various other parts of the world including the Middle East and Asia. The Albanian Mafia participates in a diverse range of criminal enterprises including trafficking in drugs, arms, humans, and human organs. The Albanian criminal scenario is characterized by diversified criminal plans which, in their complexity, show one of the highest criminal capacities in the world. In Albania alone, there are over 15 mafia families that control organized crime. According to WikiLeaks reports, the Albanian mafia has monopolized various international affiliations from as far east as Israel, to as far west as South America. These reports primarily indicate a strong connection between politicians and various Albanian mafia families. According to the Research Institute for European and American Studies (RIEAS), Albanian mafia groups are hybrid organizations (various sectors of society), often involved in both criminal and political activities.\n\nThe Albanian Mafia, in its entirety, constitutes one of the highest crime generating elements in the world, combining the \"traditional\" characteristics – plainly manifest in the rigid internal discipline, in the clan structure, in the \"endogamic closure\" which increases the impermeability, the reliability and the endogenous solidity – with modern and innovative elements, such as trans-nationality, commercial imprinting and the criminogenous culture of service. The massive logistics to almost anywhere and the syncretic nature of Albanian crime has facilitated its establishment outside the mother country and its integration with the local criminality, exploiting the opportunities inherent in the entire compatriot network.\n\nIn the United States, the term \"Albanian Mafia\" may include or refer specifically to various Albanian-American organized crime groups, such as the Rudaj Organization or Albanian Boys, both based in New York City. Albanian-American crime groups vary in the extent of their connections to Albanian mafia groups in Albania or Europe, ranging from loosely connected to or mostly independent of Albanian mafias in Europe to being essentially American extensions of European Albanian mafia groups.\n\nThe typical structure of the Albanian mafia is hierarchical. A family clan is referred to as a \"fis\" or a \"fare.\" Families contain an executive committee known as a \"Bajrak\" and select a high-ranking member for each unit. A unit is led by a \"Krye\" or \"Boss\" who selects \"Kryetar\" or \"Underbosses\" to serve under them. The Kryetar will then choose a \"Mik\" or \"Friend\" who acts as a liaison to members and is responsible for coordinating unit activities.\n\nDeeply reliant on loyalty, honor, and family—with blood relations and marriage being very important—most of the Albanian networks appear to be \"old-fashioned\". Albanian mafia families or clans are usually made up of groups that have thousands members all over the world, constituting an extended family, residing all along the Balkan route from Eastern Turkey, to Western Europe, and North America.\n\nAccording to Ioannis Michaletos, the family structure is characterized by a strong inner discipline, which is achieved by means of punitive action for every deviation from internal rules. Punishment ensures fear, and fear guarantees unconditional loyalty to the family. Provisions within the family structure allow official laws to be considered secondary, unimportant, and non-binding. Since mafia families are based on blood relations, the number of clan members are limited, and bonds between them tend to be very strong. As a result, infiltrating into the mafia is almost impossible. Members of other ethnic groups can be accepted only to execute one time or secondary jobs. The Albanian mafia families are organized in 4–6 or more levels; such a structure enables them to preserve the organizational action capability even in case some of its members or groups are captured.\n\nThe Albanian mafia has clans throughout the world. In Albania, there are clans that operate in certain towns or cities. Each region is controlled by different mafia families that oversee international operations. In Shkodra, the Xhakja clan is powerful and has an extensive history of criminal family members. Other prominent Albanian mafia families operating in and around Albania include; The Bregus or \"Bregu\" crime family, run by Armir Bregu, who is serving time in United Kingdom, and the Osmani family, and the \"Banda e Lushnjës\" whose boss \"Aldo Bare\" has since been arrested and prosecuted. The Allushi clan is located in the area of Kurcaj, Albania. Allushi clan boss is Nreka Nikprellaj,nicknamed Mladen. His clan has also many criminal connections in Molunat.\n\nThe Albanian mafia uses the term \"besa\", meaning \"trust\", as a name for their \"code of honor\". During the recruitment process a member inducted into the Albanian mafia is required to take an oath. The oath is then considered sacred because it is defined as a Besë. Besa is extremely important in Albanian culture, and is considered a verbal contract of trust. Especially in North Albania, when somebody gives someone their Besë, they have given someone their life and are going to protect someone with their life.\n\n\"According to the US State Department, Albania is the mainstay of organized crime worldwide and the main points of drug trafficking, weapons and immigrants in counterfeit goods. In addition, the cartels 'national' distinguished by the absence of vertical hierarchy, and controlled by family groups. Four major clans control 20 families that also govern human trafficking, prostitution, blackmail, car robberies and money laundering, \"writes Sputnik.\n\nThe Turkish and Italian Mafia organizations are the main partners of the Albanian mafia in drug trafficking. The latter, according to Sputnik, maintain links with officials, police, customs, intelligence and even military in their countries.\n\nThe Albanian mafia has extended its activities into China. This after Chinese authorities have uncovered Albanian mafia activity including drug trafficking and prostitution networks. Reports state that the mafia is involved in drug transporting to various Chinese cities. Further, after smuggling the drugs, they are involved in human smuggling of Chinese nationals to Europe.\n\nThe Israeli government has confirmed its concern that the Albanian mafia has spread its tentacles in the country's banking system. The Israeli intelligence agency has called for a close cooperation between Israel and Albania to combat money laundering. Justice Ministry General Manager, Dr. Rotkopf Guy noted; \"this is an important step in international cooperation between our countries to combat money laundering with the force of law and to deepen relations between Israel and other countries.\"\n\nA lengthy News Corp Australia investigation has found that an Albanian Mafia group — led by some of Australia's most wanted men — have established \"entrenched infiltration\" of almost every level of Australian society and according to Australian Federal Police:\n\nThe mostly Australian run group, led by former Kings Cross identity Vaso Ulić, a Montenegrin immigrant who left Australia in 2005 never to return, was now networked to become one of the biggest transnational crime groups in the world importing six tonnes a year into Australia alone but many more to and from other destinations from South Africa to Europe, China, Nigeria and the Americas with law enforcers from notably the United Kingdom, United States and Italy involved in their pursuance.\n\nVaso Ulic is a 55-year-old ethnic Montenegrin who migrated to Australia in 1979 and within a few years was working as a small-time foot soldier running drugs and cash along the infamous Golden Mile of Kings Cross but who is now seen as a kingpin of an organisation so big, very few drug consignments enter Australia without his knowledge or permission.\n\nIt has been confirmed the prosecutions office in Montenegro, where Ulic is residing, has an extensive file on Ulic and other figures in the country as part of an international arrest warrant to break the cartel up.\n\nAn internal police assessment relayed to the Federal Government claims their criminality now extends worldwide with direct Australian-Albanian Organized Crime links to notorious Mexican and Colombian clans and cartels and Asian triads including the 14K group, South African crime lords and Italian and Dutch criminal groups, with predominantly Melbourne, Sydney, Queensland, South Australia & Tasmania using motorcycle gangs as part of the national distribution & enforcement network for the Albanians.\n\nIn 1989, Belgian Prime Minister Paul Vanden Boeynants was kidnapped in a plot organized by Basri Bajrami. Bajrami was acknowledged by authorities as a member of the Albanian mafia at that time. The Albanian mafia has deep roots in Belgium, which was recently a topic of a special programme on Belgian RTBF Channel One. Reporters tried to investigate the roots of Albanian organized crime but have complained that it is too hard to penetrate the structure and organization of the Albanian mafia, but they agreed that the Albanian mafia acts on the model of the Italian one, whose crime is part of the \"activities of entire families\" and which has a clearly defined\nhierarchy. The Albanian mafia in Brussels has monopoly over activities such as \"narcotics and arms deals\", according to Belgian sources.\n\nThe Albanian mafia in France is described as having a monopoly over many criminal transactions including arms and drug trafficking. The Albanian mafia has a strong foothold in France, which is a key strategy as other primary transactions are overseen in neighbouring countries by different mafia families and clans. French media has stated that \" In many cities of France, there is a network of the Albanian mafia who are involved in narcotics trafficking and prostitution. It is a highly organized network and is very difficult to find their roots and penetrate it.\n\nAlbanian mafia families are active in some of the German urban centres, in particular Hamburg. They play an important role in the drug trade and the red light districts of the country. Although this is well-known to German security authorities, such as the (Bundesnachrichtendienst), they are unwilling to undertake an investigation against the Albanian criminal structures in Germany.\n\n\"Ethnic Albanians\" (as the German police officially calls them), migrated from Albania or the Republic of Macedonia or Kosovo, due to the war in Kosovo. Despite their relatively small number, they have quickly taken over the criminal networks of heroin and prostitution faster than any other ethnic group has ever done. In 1999, there were many fake \"Albanian\" banks that transferred great amounts of money out of Germany in order to finance the KLA guerrilla in Kosovo. This mafia uses so much violence that the German police has problems finding any witnesses to testify against them; all potential witnesses fear for their safety and for the safety of their families.\n\nBND reports state that Albanian Mafia activities are thoroughly spread throughout Germany. One mafia family in Hamburg, for instance, according to BND reports, has over \"300 million euros in real estate portfolios\". Further, the clan has considerable ties to police, judges and prosecutors in Hamburg.\n\nAccording to British criminal Colin Blaney in his autobiography 'Undesirables', Albanian criminals in Germany also frequently come to blows with British criminals who operate in the nation. Albanian people traffickers have been involved in confrontations with an English organized crime group known as the Wide Awake Firm, including an incident in which a member of the English group was stabbed through the hand.\n\nThe geographic vicinity, the accessibility to the E.U. through Italy, and the ties with the Calabrian and Apulia criminality have all contributed to the expansion of the Albanian criminality on the Italian scenario.\n\nFurther factors relative to the economy have rendered the Albanian criminality even more competitive. In fact, some organizations which reached Italy in the early 1990s, infiltrated the Lombardy narco-traffic network run by the 'ndrangheta. Albanian mafia leaders have reached stable agreements with the Italian criminal organizations, also with the mafia, so have gained legitimacy in many illegal circuits, diversifying their activities to avoid reasons of conflict with similar host structures. So, Albanian drug trafficking has emerged in Apulia, Sicily, Calabria and Campania.\n\nThe Albanian mafia reportedly uses specific trading routes to transport narcotics and illegal immigrants to Italy. Their southern route is via Montenegro and Albania. Access is then gained to Italy by boat.\n\nSince the beginning of the 1990s, Italy has been clamping down hard on the Sicilian Mafia. According to the deputy director of the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS), at the end of the 1990s the mafia sought to survive this crackdown by forming a \"symbiotic\" relationship with the Albanian crime families known as \"fares\", who provided the struggling Sicilians a hand in a number of services in their operations across Italy. Today, both Sicilian mafia groups and the 'Ndrangheta are believed to have franchised out prostitution, gambling, and drug dealing in territories along the Adriatic coast to the Albanians. One CSIS report even claimed that this partnership had proved so successful that the Sicilian mafia established a 'headquarters' in Vlorë, a coastal town in southern Albania at the close of the 1990s.\n\nAlbanian clandestine immigrants started arriving at Italian ports in 1991. By 1997, the immigration had come under the control of the Albanian and Italian criminal groups, tightening relationships between them.\n\nThe Albanian Mafia seems to have established good working relationships with the Italian Mafia, On 27 July 1999 police in Durrës (Albania), with Italian assistance arrested one of the godfathers of the \"Sacra Corona Unita\", Puglia's Italian mafia. This Albanian link seems to confirm that the Sacra Corona Unita and the Albanian mafia are \"partners\" in Puglia/Italy and delegate several criminal activities. Thus, in many areas of Italy, the market for cannabis, prostitution, and smuggling is run mainly by Albanians. Links to Calabria's mafia, the Ndrangheta, exist in Northern Italy. Several key figures of the Albanian mafia seem to reside frequently in the Calabrian towns of Africo, Platì, and Bovalino (Italy), fiefs of the Ndrangheta. Southern Albanian groups also have good relationships with Sicily's Cosa Nostra.\n\nRoberto Saviano, the Italian writer, an expert on the Napolitan Camorra in particular and the Italian mafia in general, spoke of the Albanian mafia as a \"no longer foreign mafia\" to Italy and stressed that the Albanians and Italians have a \"brotherly\" relationship between each other. Saviano notes that the Camorra from Naples cannot understand the Russian mafia clans, which aren't based on family ties, and feels greater affinity with the Albanian crime families.\n\nIn an Albanian television station Top Channel TV, Saviano went on to say that the Albanian and Italian factions are \"one of the same\", and that they don't consider each other as foreigners.\n\nAccording to the German Federal Intelligence Service, the Bundesnachrichtendienst (BND), in a leaked report to a Berlin newspaper, states that the 'Ndrangheta \"act in close co-operation with Albanian mafia families in moving weapons and narcotics across Europe's porous borders\".\n\n\"The ethnic Albanian mafia is very powerful and extremely violent,\" said Kim Kliver, chief investigator for organized crime with the Danish National Police. Law enforcement authorities estimate that different Albanian mafia families may smuggle as much as 440 pounds of heroin a year into Scandinavia at any given time.\n\nAccording to Spanish Authorities, the Albanian mafia is composed of powerful organized factions. In a report by Spanish Authorities, the factions have infiltrated banks and industrial estates. They are very active in Madrid and Costa Del Sol.\n\nGeneva Deputy Public Prosecutors state that the Albanian mafia is one of the most powerful ones among eight identified mafias in the world. The other mafia organizations around the world are the Russian mafia, Chinese (Triad), Japanese (Yakuza), Italian Mafia, Colombian (drug cartels) organizations, and Mexican (drug cartels) organizations. The Albanian mafia controls the entire network of heroin trafficking in Geneva, Switzerland. The Geneva deputy public prosecutors also added that the Albanian mafia \"is laundering a part of income in Geneva economy, restaurants, bars, real estate and cabarets\".\n\nAlbanian mafia gangs are believed to be largely behind sex trafficking, immigrants smuggling, as well as working with Turkish gangs in Southend-on-Sea, who control the heroin trade in the United Kingdom.\n\nVice squad officers estimate that \"Albanians now control more than 75 per cent of the country's brothels and their operations in London's Soho alone are worth more than £15 million a year.\" They are said to be present in every big city in Britain as well as in many smaller ones including Telford and Lancaster, after having fought off rival criminals in turf wars. Associate groups within the organizations will also hide their criminal activities within restaurants, bars, and clubs in an attempt to remain undercover.\n\nAlbanian gangsters were also involved in the largest cash robbery in British crime history, the £53 million Securitas heist in 2006.\n\nAccording to the Scottish Crime and Drug Enforcement Agency (SCDEA), Albanian mafia groups have muscled in on the drug and vice trades within the Scottish underworld. The SCDEA notes that Albanian mafia groups have established a foothold in arms and drugs trafficking in Scotland.\n\nAlbanian mafia in the UK is heavily involved in prostitution and together with Turkish mafia control more than 70% of prostitution market in London.\n\nIn the last few years Albanian mafia was involved more in drug trafficking than in prostitution and they sold more than 500,000 kilogrammes of drugs in London alone.\n\nThe Albanian mafia is firmly established in Canadian cities, such as Toronto, Montreal and Vancouver. Albanians are involved in various white collar activities, such as real estate and health care fraud. Furthermore, they are engaged in cross-border activity between the United States and Canada, which includes drug smuggling and money laundering.\n\nA Canadian Security Intelligence Service report noted that although organized crime in Canada has shifted to more multi-ethnic and loosely based structures, the term \"mafia\" is used only to identify the \"big three,\" which have hierarchical structures that are ethnically, racially, and culturally homogeneous: the Italian, Albanian, and Russian mafias.\n\nThe Albanian mafia in the United States has been thought to greatly increase their dominant power and is one of the most violent criminal organizations in operation, particularly with their strong connections in the European Union.\n\nIn the United States, Albanian gangs started to be active in the mid-80s, mostly participating in low-level crimes, such as burglaries and robberies. Later, they would become affiliated with Cosa Nostra crime families before eventually growing strong enough to operate their own organizations under the Iliazi family name.\n\nDuring investigations conducted by FBI experts in the city of New York and surrounding areas against the Albanian mafia, it was noted that the Albanian mafia was too widespread and too secretive to penetrate. Furthermore, although there have been a number of operations performed by the FBI to destroy organized crime such as Italian and Russian factions, the Albanian mafia continues to be widespread in New York in a relatively high number.\n\nIn 2011, a New York-based Albanian-American mob was successfully convicted by the New York US attorney's office. It was coordinated by the International Narcotics Strike Force (made up of the DEA, NYPD, ICE/HSI, New York State Police, IRS, and U.S. Marshals). The American-Albanian mob was described as having \"hundreds of associated members, workers, and customers spanning three continents\" and with trafficking drugs from Detroit, Canada, Mexico, the Netherlands, Colombia, Peru, and Venezuela. They were also in close cooperation with other mafia families based in the European Union.\n\nAccording to Jerry Capeci, the national foremost expert on the American Mafia \"Albanian gangsters are the latest ethnic criminals to be presented by authorities as competition for the old and dying Mafiosi. Like Irish, Cuban, Russian, Chinese and Greek hoodlums before them, the Albanians are not serious competition for what the F.B.I. calls traditional organized crime, the Italian mob. There are nowhere near enough of them.\"\n\nThe FBI says that \"they do not yet demonstrate the established criminal sophistication of traditional Eurasian or La Cosa Nostra (LCN) organizations. There is no single Balkan 'Mafia' structured hierarchically like the traditional LCN. Rather, Balkan organized crime groups in this country translated their clan-like structure to the United States. They are not clearly defined or organized and are instead grouped around a central leader or leaders.\"\n\nIn early 2012, the White House sanctioned suspected Albanian mafia king pin Naser Kelmendi for drug trafficking. US President Barack Obama notified Congress saying he had sanctioned Kelmendi under the Kingpin Act, implemented by the US Department of Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC). Kalmendi is suspected of leading one of the strongest ethnic Albanian criminal families in the Balkans, according to the Treasury Department. He has long been suspected of running a large organization that traffics heroin, cocaine and acetic anhydride, a raw material used in the production of heroin, to Europe through the Balkans.\n\nOne of the most famous Albanian criminal organization was the Rudaj Organization. In October 2004, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) arrested 22 men who worked for it. Among them was Alex Rudaj, the leader of the organization, whose arrest effectively ended the workings of the Rudaj. The arrests were made shortly after the men entered the territory of the Lucchese crime family in Astoria, Queens, New York, and supposedly beat up two members of the Lucchese family.\n\nThe name Rudaj comes from the head of the organization. According to \"The New York Times\" published in January 2006, \"Beginning in the 1990s, the Corporation, led by a man named Alex Rudaj, established ties with established organized crime figures including members of the Gambino crime family, the authorities say. Then, through negotiations or in armed showdowns, the Albanians struck out on their own, daring to battle the Lucchese and Gambino families for territory in Queens, the Bronx and Westchester County, prosecutors say.\"\n\nIn 2001, Albanian mobsters stormed a Gambino hangout in Astoria, Queens, sending a brazen message to the family. The club, called Soccer Fever, was now theirs. The seven men who invaded the dimly lit basement club tore the joint apart, shot off handguns and beat the club manager bloody, prosecutors say. It was a bold move, and, prior to August 2001 unthinkable.\n\nGambino leader Arnold Squitieri had had enough and wanted a talk with these rogue mobsters. The \"sit down\" took place at a gas station in a rest area near the New Jersey turnpike. Squitieri did not come alone; twenty armed Gambino mobsters accompanied their boss. Alex Rudaj on the other hand had only managed to bring six members of his crew. According to undercover FBI agent Joaquin Garcia, who infiltrated the Gambino crime family during this period, Squitieri told Rudaj that the fun was over and that they should stop expanding their operations. The Albanians and Gambinos then pulled out their weapons. Knowing they were outnumbered, the Albanians threatened to blow up the gas station with all of them in it. This ended the discussion, and both groups pulled back.\n\nBy 2006, all the main players involved in this \"sit down\" were in prison. Rudaj and his Sixth Family had been picked off the street in October 2004 and charged with a variety of racketeering and gambling charges. After a trial, Rudaj and his main lieutenants were all found guilty. In 2006, Rudaj, at that time 38 years old, was sentenced to 27 years in prison. His rival Arnold Squitieri was convicted in an unrelated racketeering case and was sent to prison for seven years.\n\n\"What we have here might be considered a sixth crime family\", after the five mafia organizations—Bonanno, Colombo, Gambino, Genovese, and Lucchese—said Fred Snelling, head of the FBI's criminal division in New York.\n\nSpeaking anonymously for Philadelphia's City Paper, a member of the \"Kielbasa Posse\", an ethnic Polish mob group, declared in 2002 that Poles are willing to do business with \"just about anybody. Dominicans. Blacks. Italians. Asian street gangs. Russians. But they won't go near the Albanian mob. The Albanians are too violent and too unpredictable.\"\n\nThe Polish mob has told its associates that the Albanians are like the early Sicilian mafia—clannish, secretive, hypersensitive to any kind of insult, and too quick to use violence for the sake of vengeance.\n\nReliable information from Honduras indicates formidable Albanian mafia activity. According to WikiLeaks reports, Albanian mafia groups are affiliated with various South American politicians, and have set in motion to move their hidden assets in various banks. The WikiLeaks report goes on to state that Albanian mafia groups are preying heavily in Central America, where all roads lead to Colombian cocaine. Albanian mafia groups are laundering money through banks in Honduras and investing a large amount in construction projects to further gain influence in South America.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47820587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47820587", "title": "August House", "text": "August House\n\nAugust House is an independent children's book publisher established in 1978 and currently headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia. August House principally focuses on publishing children's folktales, picture books, early-grade chapter books, and storytelling resource materials. August House also manages two imprints: Story Cove, an interactive picture book and multimedia series geared towards helping teachers meet classroom Common Core Standards for reading, and LittleFolk, August House's picture book line.\n\nAugust House is home to authors Margaret Read MacDonald, Donald Davis, Martha Hamilton, Mitch Weiss, Willy Claflin, Heather Forest, Rob Cleveland, W. C. Jameson, and Pleasant DeSpain, among others, as well as the award-winning picture-book series Maynard Moose.\n\nAugust House was founded in Little Rock, Arkansas by Ted Parkhurst and Jon Looney as a publisher of Arkansas poetry. In 1986, August House began to collaborate with Liz Parkhurst and W.K. McNeil and develop as a folklore publisher. By 1989, August House established a partnership with the National Storytelling Festival and began to regularly publish works by professional storytellers. The company was purchased in 2004 by Steve Floyd and Graham Anthony of Marsh Cove Productions, who expanded August House's LittleFolk picture book line, established the Story Cove imprint, and moved the headquarters to Atlanta, Georgia. Since then, the company has continued to build and expand its collection of folktales and stories from the oral tradition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "518339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=518339", "title": "Background music", "text": "Background music\n\nBackground music refers to the various styles of music or soundscapes primarily intended to be passively listened to. It is not meant to be the main focus of an audience, but rather to supplement that which is meant to be focused upon. Music that is played at a low volume and is not the main focus of an audience is also referred to as background music. Traditional examples of background music include music played at various social gatherings and music played in certain retail venues. It is also common to employ background music in various electronic media including film, television, video games, and Internet videos such as video blogs.\n\nThe study of background music focuses on the impact of music with non-musical tasks, including changes in behavior in the presence of different types, settings, or styles of music. In laboratory settings, music can affect performance on cognitive tasks (memory, attention, and comprehension), both positively and negatively. Used extensively as an advertising aid, music may also affect marketing strategies, ad comprehension, and consumer choices.\n\nCare should be taken with the idea that \"Background music can influence learning, working memory and recall, performance while working on tests, and attention in cognitive monitoring tasks.\" \n\nParticipants who memorized foreign language words while listening to Baroque music recalled an average of 8.7% more words than those who did not listen to music. The effect of music was stronger for less common words, and there was no effect of music on recall a week later.\n\nThe Mozart effect occurs when performance on cognitive tasks requiring spatial manipulations (such as a mental rotation task) improves after listening to fifteen minutes of Mozart. In a typical mental rotation task, participants see two 3D shapes drawn on paper, and then decide if they are different views of the same shape or different shapes. This comparison often requires mental rotation of the object. The Mozart effect is inconsistent when tested with musicians and non-musicians. Only non-musicians showed any improvement when given the mental rotation task before and after listening to Mozart. Musicians tend to process music using both brain hemispheres, whereas non-musicians use mostly their right hemisphere. Listening to Mozart increased arousal in the right hemisphere (active during mental rotation), and non-musicians may have performed better due to more right hemisphere activity.\n\nDigit detection tasks require participants to monitor a stream of letters for two randomly placed digits, and attentional blink (the inability to detect the second visual target) may occur after the first digit is detected. When accompanied by task-irrelevant mental activity, performance can actually improve on attentionally-demanding visual search tasks. Detection rates of the second digit were significantly higher when accompanied by music. This suggests that background music may facilitate increased arousal or increased positive affective state, leading to better attention. It is also possible that the music induces a more diffuse distribution of attention, so that participants can attend over a broader search that includes the second digit.\n\nA similar phenomenon, inattentional blindness, refers to the tendency to miss a novel stimulus when attending to other stimuli. As a laboratory task, participants are instructed to attend to moving visual stimuli on a computer monitor while an \"A\" of a different color moves across the screen. A simple auditory task required participants to listen for an occasional embedded tone amidst background music, and this attenuated the blindness to the \"A\". Participants were able to perform both tasks simultaneously at a higher rate than the visual monitoring alone, and engaged in fewer task-unrelated thoughts, suggesting that not all increases in task demand are equal. Music may fill a special role that leads to increased arousal without affecting concurrent task performance.\n\nThough increased arousal from music listening may improve cognitive performance (possibly the process through which the Mozart effect occurs), the irrelevant sound effect (or irrelevant speech effect) can also occur. When two concurrent sources of information compete for processing, the sources interfere with each other. For example, in advertisements, studies have shown that the presence of lyrics in background music can draw a consumer's attention away from the main point of the ad. Although it may seem like a nice supplement, background music can be a distraction from the intended message. In serial recall tasks participants must recall (in the correct order) lists of digits or words. Music with a high degree of acoustic variation tends to inhibit performance on serial recall tasks by drawing on cognitive resources.\n\nWhen performing digit span tasks in the presence of music, participants must recall a string of digits of increasing length. Those completing the tasks in silence performed significantly better than those listening to music (it did not matter if the music was liked or disliked).\n\nIn a verbal learning test that consisted of words and non-words, background music had no significant impact on test performance. Participants studied with original excerpts in which tempo and consonance (in or out of tune) were manipulated, nondescript noise, and silence. While test performance did not differ across these conditions, stronger EEG readings were registered with consonant and fast music. This suggests music may draw more cognitive resources, though increased cortical activation compensates to preserve task performance.\n\nThe nature of the background music, either vocal or instrumental, and the perceived correctness of the music can change its effect on cognitive performance.\n\nWorking memory, and more specifically the phonological loop (memory process through which auditory information is rehearsed and stored for short-term recall), plays an integral role in processing digit span tasks. In the presence of either vocal music or irrelevant speech, performance appears to suffer similarly with both, whereas listening to instrumental renderings of the same songs (or working in silence) tends to lead to better performance.\n\nThe presence of lyrics differentially affects performance depending on the nature of the task. Performance on verbal tests (reading comprehension) tends to improve with silence versus either vocal or instrumental music. On the other hand, math test performance is higher with vocal music than with instrumental. Logic performance (understanding flowcharts or diagrams) is higher with \"either\" vocal or instrumental versus silence. If music leads to a more aroused state, it appears to only improve performance when the music does not directly interfere with the task (e.g., \"lyrics\" interfere with \"verbal\" processing).\n\nExpert musicians and non-musicians listened to either music played correctly, played with errors, or silence while performing a language-based task (evaluating grammar in given sentences). Both musicians and non-musicians performed worse while listening to incorrectly played music versus silence, but only musicians performed significantly worse in the presence of incorrect music versus correct music. With a visuo-spatial search task (locating differences between nearly identical images filled with geometric patterns and color), neither group was affected by the music conditions. Musicians were more attentive to the errors in the music, and their performance suffered more. Though music can be arousing and lead to higher cognitive performance, it can also be distracting.\n\nThe Cortical Arousal Theory suggests that background music may differentially impact cognitive performance based on certain personality traits. Both introverts and extraverts tend to perform higher on immediate recall (recalling ideas from a story just read), delayed recall, and Stroop tasks in silence versus popular lyrical music. Introvert's performance suffered more than extravert's with highly arousing music, suggesting internal arousal through music can differentially affect cognitive performance.\n\nMusic provides a material rendering of self-identity; that is, it provides a material in and with which to identify identity. Music is a \"mirror\" that allows one to \"see one's self\" and serves as a repository of value or self-perception.\n\nIn both radio and television advertisements, music plays an integral role in content recall, intentions to buy the product, and attitudes toward the advertisement and brand itself. Music's effect on marketing has been studied in radio ads, TV ads, and physical retail settings.\n\nOne of the most important aspects of an advertisement's music is the \"musical fit,\" or the degree of congruity between cues in the ad and song content. Advertisements and music can be congruous or incongruous for both lyrical and instrumental music. The timbre, tempo, lyrics, genre, mood, as well as any positive or negative associations elicited by certain music should fit the nature of the advertisement and product. For example, playing classical music in the background has been shown to increase the amount of money that people are willing to spend on a product, as it is associated with an \"upmarket\" image.\n\nProduct involvement refers to the degree of personal relevance and perceived purchase risk regarding a given product, while advertising involvement refers to the amount of attention directed toward the advertisement and its content. Both types can be more cognitively (content-focused) or affectively (emotion-focused) oriented, changing the way in which background music interacts with advertisement viewing or listening.\n\nWhen viewing 30-second TV ads containing background classical music, recall was tested for brand name and message content. Participants viewed an original commercial (for a fictional brand of soap) embedded in an episode of America’s Funniest Home Videos. The same commercial was paired with either familiar or unfamiliar classical music of a slow or fast tempo. Results revealed an inverted-U relationship between tempo and recall (faster tempo correlated with higher recall to a certain point, then recall began to suffer). This was only found when the ad contained familiar music, suggesting that familiarity mediates advertisement involvement. This supports a resource-matching hypothesis: message processing is maximized when the cognitive resources demanded match those available. As music speed increases, information density in the ad increases. As long as cognitive resources are not exceeded, ad processing more equally matches an increased state of arousal through the music.\n\nIn real radio commercials, data reveal a different relationship when the whole stimulus is auditory. Though a better match (higher congruity) between musical timbre and ad message led to higher recall, both slow and fast background music reduced content recall, with slower music leading to significantly lower performance than fast music.\n\nBackground music can act as a peripheral persuasion cue, evoking emotional responses and positive attitudes toward both the advertisement and the brand. These emotional responses can also interfere with recall. Women were shown a TV commercial for a fictional brand of hair shampoo, and assigned either to a \"cognitively involved\" group (instructed to pay attention to the specifics of product quality and ratings), an \"affectively involved\" group (instructed to watch for the product's unique personality). Popular music played in the background and facilitated recall only in the affective involvement group; it had a distracting effect with cognitive involvement. This suggests a differential effect of background music in commercials based on product involvement and types of processing.\n\nAttention paid to the ad and brand, attitudes toward each, and purchase intentions were measured in response to fictional TV commercials that contained either culturally appropriate or inappropriate music. Congruent product-music commercials (e.g., Asian music paired with Asian product) elicited significantly more favorable attitudes toward the product.\n\nRadio commercials, when paired with congruent music (rated in another experiment as fitting the product being advertised), show similar trends. Congruent music elicits more positive attitudes toward the advertisement and brand in \"high-cognition\" ads (e.g., focuses on Rolex specifications) than in \"low-cognition\" ads (e.g., focuses on feelings accompanying a Rolex). The musical fit differentially affected ad impact based on the type of commercial.\n\nWhen background music fits radio ad content, but varies on tempo, style, and rhythm, participants formed different impressions of the brand and its endorser. With a slow piano ballad, for example, participants perceived the endorser as more diligent and orderly than when he endorsed a product with rock music. Even given these different impressions, participants did not significantly change their general evaluation of the product. In all conditions there was a high degree of musical fit, but perceptions of brand and endorser can change separate from views toward the ad.\n\nIn a survey of shoppers at a suburban mall, both hedonic (pleasure) and utilitarian evaluations of a given shopping experience differed based on an interaction between retail density and the tempo of music playing in the mall. Shoppers are attracted to scenery, smells, and sounds; the more pleasant the shopper feels the more they tend to spend. Past research by Morrin showed that pleasant scents can enhance cognition and cause people to better remember the details of products.[20] Retail density (number of shoppers) was determined by the time of day and day of the week, while slow and fast music were played. A shopping experience can influence browsing behaviors and evaluations were highest with slow music and high density or fast music and low density.[20] This random survey lends support to a \"schema incongruity theory\" stating that more elaborate information processing occurs under mildly incongruous conditions. The incongruity between density and music tempo seems to create that condition.[20]\n\nWhen participants viewed videos of interactions between a sales clerk and a shopper, slow and soothing music led to more negative evaluations toward the store and salesperson, if the sales pitch was weaker.[21] The type of music affected cognitive processing (slow music allowed for greater resources to be used in evaluating the sales pitch). Thus participants viewed a weaker sales pitch more critically, except when faster music drew more resources.[21] Musical fit also applies to retail situations. Regardless of the type of music, however, it needs to at least match the store environment and product to garner positive reactions.[21]\n\nPeople who tend to do unplanned shopping tend to spend more when hear background music, people who have plan to shop tend to spend less even when there is music playing.\n\nThe 1964 3M Cantata 700 played continuous and auto-reversing one of its large and proprietary magnetic tape cartridges, containing up to 26 hours of music. The Rowe Customusic was an endless tape cartridge player, loading simultaneous six C-type Fidelipac cartridges. The 1959 Seeburg 1000 was a stack record player, playing both sides continuous and repeating up to 1000 songs and up to 25 special 9\" vinyl records with a 2\" center bore at 16⅔ PRM.\n\nIncidental music is music in a play, radio/TV program or some other form that is not primarily musical, adding atmosphere to the action. It can be dated back at least as far as Greek drama. A number of classical composers have written incidental music for various plays.\n\nThe term \"furniture music\" was coined by Erik Satie in 1917. It fell into disuse when the composer died a few years later, and the genre was revived several decades later. Typical of furniture music are short musical passages, with an indefinite number of repeats.\n\nElevator music (also Muzak, piped music, or lift music) is a more general term indicating music that is played in rooms where many people come together (that is, with no intention whatsoever to listen to music), and during telephone calls when placed on hold. There is a specific \"sound\" associated with elevator music, usually involving themes from \"soft\" popular music or \"light\" classical music being worked over by slow strings. This type of music was produced, for instance, by the Mantovani Orchestra, and conductors like Franck Pourcel and James Last, peaking in popularity around the 1970s.\n\nThe term can also be used for kinds of easy listening, piano solo, jazz or middle of the road music, or what are known as \"beautiful music\" radio stations.\n\nThis style of music is sometimes used to comedic effect in mass media such as film, where intense or dramatic scenes may be interrupted or interspersed with such anodyne music while characters use an elevator. Some video games have used music similarly: \"\" where a few elevator music-themed tracks are accessible on the in-game iPod, as well as \"\".\n\nSome people can be deeply annoyed by piped music, and even find it spoils their enjoyment in recreation or drives them out of shops: Eight out of 10 people have left an establishment early because it was too noisy. There are a number of societies, such as Pipedown, that are dedicated to reducing its extent and intrusiveness. The Good Pub Guide 2017 called for a ban on piped music in pubs, already the case in houses managed by the Samuel Smith Brewery.\n\nBackground music (often abbreviated BGM) is the music in video games (sometimes written VGM) and music in websites.\n\nIn recent years the proliferation of Internet delivered background music by such companies as Trusonic has gained traction. This allows the retailer to instantly update music and messages which are deployed at the store level as opposed to using older compact disc and satellite technologies.\n\nBusiness audio refers to a type of service that provides audio content that is licensed for use in a commercial setting.\n\nBusiness news can be one example. The term \"background music\" is another example. Providers of the latter include:\n\nIn the United States, the terms \"elevator music\" and \"Muzak\" are commonly used to refer to business audio services that provide background music in retail settings.\n\nFounded in 1934, Muzak was among the early background music providers. \n\nBusiness audio is produced off-site and delivered to the client via a number of methods including DBS satellite, SDARS satellite, coaxial cable, FM radio subcarrier, leased line, internet broadband, compact disc, and tape.\n\nMost audio content is licensed for personal and home use only. Business audio services allow clients to use audio content in public and commercial settings by paying appropriate royalties to performing rights organizations like ASCAP, BMI, SESAC and GEMA in Germany.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48023830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48023830", "title": "Batik Day", "text": "Batik Day\n\nBatik Day (Hari Batik Nasional) is an Indonesian cultural day for celebrating batik — the traditional cloth of Indonesia. It is celebrated on October 2 and marks the anniversary of when UNESCO recognized batik as a Masterpiece of Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity in 2009. At the day, in Jakarta, the map of Indonesian batik diversity by Hokky Situngkir was opened for public for the first time by the Indonesian Ministry of Research and Technology. The Indonesian government strongly encourage Indonesian people (especially government officials, employees of state-owned enterprises, and students) to wear batik annual on the holiday and on Fridays to commemorate the day. Wearing batik every Friday has also been encouraged in private companies.\n\nBatik is a traditional Indonesian cloth that has roots in the country’s historical artwork. In celebration of their culture, Indonesians dress head-to-toe in batik for the holiday. Now, Batik Day is celebrated across a number of platforms all over the world. Particularly, in Indonesian organizations ranging from Universities, church groups, and communities all around the world. These Indonesian organizations usually celebrate Batik Day as well in order to create awareness of Indonesia's traditional fabric to other cultures.\n\nBecause batik is recognized by UNESCO as an Indonesian cultural contribution to the world, Indonesians found it to be a reason to celebrate this traditional fabric and the garments made from it. It started from the meeting from the UNESCO Jakarta team on the journey of how batik came to be included on the UNESCO Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage (ICH) for Humanity and the great meaning and pride it gives to many Indonesian people. A number of batik artisans from Borobudur and Klaten, Central Java, also took part in the celebration and outlined how Batik has now become an important source of livelihood development for them and their communities in the region. The group from Klaten shared inspiring stories on how they grew from 'zero to hero'. Their story takes them from being employed as workers on a low wage for a batik factory to developing their own cooperation of 169 women who have sustainably been able to increase their income by tenfold.\n"}
{"id": "33976019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33976019", "title": "Biblical numerology", "text": "Biblical numerology\n\nBiblical numerology is the use of numbers for their symbolic value in biblical texts - for example, the seven days of creation in Genesis 1.\n\nWhile many ancient languages, religions, and philosophies contained numeric interpretation of events, words, and names, this article is concerned with those uniquely affecting Judeo-Christian beliefs. Although Greek culture was well-known to scholars in the first centuries BC and AD in the Middle East, Greek ideas about numerology do not seem to have permeated Jewish and Christian beliefs.\n\n3: The implication of three is \"perfection\" or \"holiness.\"(e.g. ().\n\n4: Four signifies a sense of totality or \"the world,\" preeminently in the Book of Revelation. It derives its meaning from there being four cardinal directions, as also attested in Mesopotamian literature.\n\n6: \n\n7: In both Jewish and Christian traditions, seven signifies \"totality of perfection,\" \"completeness.\"\n\n\n8: Eight means a \"new life\" or \"resurrection\".\n\n1,000 signifies \"immensity\" or \"fullness of quantity\", preeminently in the Book of Revelation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40927368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40927368", "title": "Bosko's Knight-Mare", "text": "Bosko's Knight-Mare\n\nBosko's Knight-Mare is a 1933 \"Looney Tunes\" animated short film. The film was directed by Hugh Harman. The film score was composed by Frank Marsales.\n\nBosko has a dream that a knight kidnaps Honey. The dream ends up with Bosko chopping a knight suit.\n"}
{"id": "8786784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8786784", "title": "Burra katha", "text": "Burra katha\n\nBurra Katha, also spelled Burrakatha, is an oral storytelling technique in the Katha tradition, performed in villages of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. The troupe consists of one main performer and two co-performers. It is a narrative entertainment that consists of prayers, solo drama, dance, songs, poems and jokes. The topic will be either a Hindu mythological story (Jangam Katha) or a contemporary social issue.\n\nBurra - Katha was developed in Guntur district around 1942 with the aim of propagating political ideas among illiterate masses in villages. The communists with the help of Andhra Praja Natya Mandali founded by Mikkilineni Radhakrishna Murthy in Bezawada spread the message to the masses in the Naizam region during the rebellion against Nizam in the 1940s.\n\n\"Burra\" is referred to tambura, a musical string instrument with a hollow shell. \"Katha\" means story.\nBurra means a skull in Telugu. The shell resembles a human skull. It is made of baked clay or dried pumpkin, or of brass and copper. The instrument looks very similar to veena and the performer can pull and press strings to get music.\n\nBurrakatha refers to the art throughout Andhra Pradesh, and there are local names in each region.\n\nBurrakatha started as devotional songs of nomadic people and became a popular art form. It is played on radio and TV regularly in Andhra Pradesh. It is a 20th-century name for the theater show known as Jangam Katha. The jangams lingayats were wandering minstrels who worshiped and sang of Lord Siva. Two performers participated in these plays: the storyteller and his wife. With societal and cultural changes, the secular aspect was incorporated into this form. The modern form has three performers of any gender.\n\nPopular Hindu artists were Pendyala Venkateswarrao, Sunkara Sri Krishna Madhava Rao, Paruchuri Ramakotayya, Sirivisetti Subbarao, Kosuri Punnayya, Govardhana, Kakumanu Subbarao, Davuluru, Chintalal Suryanarayana, Budagajangala mote papaiah, Budagajangala mote kullayappa, Budagajangala mote ramalingam, etc. Women also formed groups, e.g., Moturi Udayam, Chintala Koteswaramma, Mahankali Lakshmi, Sridevi sisters, etc. Popular non-Hindu artists are Abraham Bhagavatar, Manohara Kavi, Khader Khan Sahib, Shaik Nazar etc.\n\nThe main storyteller (kathakudu) narrates the story. He plays tambura and dances to music. He also wears a metal ring called an andelu on his right thumb, holds another ring in his other hand and adds more music by colliding them frequently. The co-performers plays gummeta (also called dakki or budike), earthen drums with two heads. All three or only the kathakadu wear anklets (also called as gajjelu), which add even more music when they dance.\n\nThe right side performer (hasyaka, meaning joker) acts as a joker and cracks satires and jokes. The left side performer (rajakiya, meaning politician) acts as someone who knows worldly ways and talks about politics and social issues. The main performer and co-performers constantly was address each other. The co-performers interrupt the kathakudu with doubts, and they sometimes add emphasis to the main events in the story with short words similar to \"Wow!\" \"Aha!\" and \"That is it.\"\n\nWhenever the main performer sings a song, he or she starts with \"vinara veera kumara veera gadha vinara\" followed by the co-performers singing \"tandhana tane tandhana na.\" It is also called 'tandana katha.'\n\nBurra katha was a pastime event in villages. It is seen even now during Dussehra or Sankranti festival seasons to describe events in epics like Ramayan and Mahabharat and also some of best and moral stories of kings like kambojaraju katha, chinnamma katha, muggurumoratila katha, etc.\n\nIt played an effective role in conveying message to people and awakening them during Indian Independence Movement. Burrakatha was banned in Madras by the British government and in Hyderabad kingdom by Nizam government, because it was the medium to enlighten the people of the political situation in political meetings.\n\nBurrakatha tellers are called as budagajangalu. Internet and movies play a major role in modern life.\nThat's why the burrakathas are not being seen and no one is there to develop this and improve the art.\nIn past these burrakatha tellers were important in the villages; now there is no response for their art.\n\nSo these burrakatha tellers left their traditional art and have become beggars or day labourers. Even in these modern times, there are no educated people in this tribe. They don't have caste certificates for developing their tribe.\n\nDaroji Eramma was a performer of Burra katha from Karnataka.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9998156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9998156", "title": "Coppergate Helmet", "text": "Coppergate Helmet\n\nThe Coppergate Helmet (also known as the York Helmet) is an eighth-century Anglo-Saxon helmet found in York. It was discovered in May 1982 during excavations for the Jorvik Viking Centre at the bottom of a pit that is thought to have once been a well.\n\nThe helmet is one of six Anglo-Saxon helmets known to have survived to the present day, and is by far the best preserved. It shares its basic form with the helmet found in Wollaston, Northamptonshire, and like the others—from Benty Grange, Sutton Hoo, Shorwell, and Staffordshire—is one of the \"crested helmets\" that flourished in England and Scandinavia from the sixth through to the eleventh centuries. It is now in the collections of the Yorkshire Museum.\n\nThe construction of the helmet is complex. Apart from the neck guard the basic form is shared by the contemporaneous Pioneer Helmet, a sparsely decorated fighting piece, and consists of four parts: an iron skull cap with brass edging and decorations, two iron cheek guards with brass edging, and camail protecting the neck.\n\nThe cap of the helmet has eight iron components. A brow band encircles the head; a nose-to-nape band extends from back to front, where it narrows and continues downwards as the nasal; two lateral bands each connect the side of the brow band to the top of the nose-to-nape band; and four subtriangular infill plates sit underneath the resulting holes. The eight pieces are riveted together. The brow band, long and to wide, is not entirely circular; a gap at the front is covered by the nose-to-nape band, which overlaps the brow band at the front and underlaps it at the back. Quadrant-shaped cutouts at the front, and rectangular cutouts at the sides, create eye-holes and attachment points for the cheek guard hinges. On the dexter side is a light and unexplained sketch of a rectangle with two lines in the shape of an 'X' connecting the corners. The nose-to-nape band is long and about wide, and is shaped at the front, possibly with a template before assembly, both to help facilitate the eye-holes and to continue down as the nasal. The two lateral bands, about long and wide, are riveted to the inside of the brow and nose-to-nape bands by three iron rivets on each end. The four infill plates are roughly triangular, but have their corners cut off to avoid overlapping the rivets holding the bands together. Their sizes vary considerably, likely because the edges are hidden from view. At the front the two infill plates are affixed underneath the bands by four rivets on either side and three at the bottom; at the back, five rivets on either side, and three at the bottom, hold each infill plate to the bands.\n\nFour different types of brass edging, comprising seven individual pieces, are used on the cap. A plain binding extends around the front of the helmet, connecting the two cheek guard hinges and covering the edges of the nasal and eye-hole cutouts; a short strip on either side fills the space between the hinge and the end of the eyebrow; behind the hinge on either side, another short piece extends to the end of the cheek guard; and across the back of the helmet, connecting the ends of the cheek guard, runs a mail suspension strip. The plain binding is made from a piece of brass, up to wide, that is folded in half around the edge of the helmet. It appears to be made from a single piece of metal, and is attached with six brass rivets. Above these on either side, a strip approximately long and tall fills the space between the hinge and the end of the eyebrow, on which side it is moulded to the shape of the eyebrow's terminal animal head. The upper edges are folded over at the top. These strips are each affixed with two brass rivets and are primarily decorative, for they match the height of the two types of edge binding on the back of the helmet. The first of these types is made from one rectangular strip of brass per side, folded over into a U-shape and fitted over the approximately long portion of the brow band between the cheek guard hinge and the back of the cheek guard. On the exterior of the helmet the strips are about tall, and have the tops folded over, as on the filler strips. Two brass rivets per side hold them in place. The final type of edge binding, the mail suspension strip, is similar to the pieces behind the hinges that it abuts. It is made of folded over rectangular strips of brass, fitted over the edge of the brow band and with the top of the exterior edge itself folded down. Two pieces of equal length were used, abutting at the back of the helmet, although the sinister strip was not found with the helmet. The dexter strip is long and tall, and between its bottom and the bottom of the brow band, leaves a hollow high gap. Seven or eight slots, each between and wide, were cut for every of the strip. One ring of mail was placed into each slot, and a piece of iron wire in diameter was slotted through to hold them in place. The mail suspension strip was held on by silver rivers with domed heads; only two survive, though five were probably originally used.\n\nSuspended from the cap are two cheek guards and a mail curtain. The cheek guards are made from individual pieces of iron and at their maximum dimensions are approximately long and wide. They are curved inward both laterally and longitudinally, and each held to the brow band by a single hinge. Both hinges are made of two pieces of iron, approximately long and wide, that were bent in half over a circular rod and then cut to create matching slots; the upper dexter piece has four slots and the lower piece three—one of which is broken—a pattern that is reversed on the sinister side. The upper halves fit over sections cut out of the brow band, the lower halves over the cheek guards, and all four pieces are held in place with two iron rivets. The slots mesh together, and are held in place by diameter iron pins, the sinister of which is missing and has been replaced.\n\nThe mail is remarkable in consisting of forge-welded links, rather than the far more common riveted links. The helmet was found to be made of iron, with applied brass-work containing approximately 85 % copper. It is very like the helmets depicted being worn by Anglo-Saxon Northumbrian cavalrymen on one of the Pictish Aberlemno Sculptured Stones, believed to depict the Battle of Dun Nechtain of 685.\n\nThe helmet has two low crests of brass, one running from front to back, the other from side to side, forming a cross shape when viewed from above. The brass banding within the crests bears a Latin inscription:\n\nIN NOMINE : DNI : NOSTRI : IHV : SCS : SPS : DI : ET : OMNIBVS : DECEMVS : AMEN: OSHERE : XPI\n<br>\nIn the name of our Lord Jesus, the Holy Spirit, and God; and to all we say Amen / Oshere / Christ\n\nAn alternative interpretation suggests the following translation:\nIn the name of our Lord Jesus Christ and of the Spirit of God, let us offer up Oshere to All Saints. Amen.\n\nOshere is a male Anglian name and XPI are the first three letters of the word Christos (\"khristos\") in Greek.\n\nThe brass crest terminates in a decorative animal head at the base of the nasal. The brass eyebrow decorations that flank the nasal also terminate in animal heads. The decoration of the nasal consists of two intertwined beasts, whose bodies and limbs degenerate into interlace ornament.\n\nLike many other helmets of Germanic Western and Northern Europe in the Early Middle Ages the construction of the Coppergate helmet is derivative of Late Roman helmet types.\n\nThe helmet was discovered on 12 May 1982 during excavations for the Jorvik Viking Centre in York, North Yorkshire. The York Archaeological Trust had previously excavated 1000m in the area from 1976 to 1981, finding evidence of Roman occupation in the area but very little indication of Anglo-Saxon settlement. In 1981 and 1982 an area five times the size of the initial excavation was developed, including for the construction of the Coppergate Shopping Centre and the Jorvik Viking Centre. As most of the land had not been subject to the earlier archaeological excavations, a watching brief was maintained during the construction.\n\nAt approximately 2:40pm an excavator, using a flat scraper bucket to remove the natural clay a few centimetres at a time, struck an object. The foreman stopped work to check on the object's size, thinking it was a stone. His fingers wiped away the dust and exposed the golden band at the top of the helmet, after which he alerted the archaeologists on site. Their investigation showed a wood-lined pit, approximately 1.4m long on each side, and deep; nineteenth-century construction of a factory had removed the upper portion, and had come within a few centimetres of the helmet. Within the remaining portion were found a seemingly random collection of several pieces of wood and twigs, a sword-beater with textile impressions, a churn dasher, a fragment of a crucible, an antler beam, a rubbing stone, a fragment of glass, a fragment of hearth lining, seven fragments of slag, and three fragments of iron. These were removed before the helmet to free up space. The helmet itself had to be removed quickly, both to prevent corrosion caused by its first exposure to air in more than 1,000 years and for reasons of security, and by 8:30 it had been placed atop crumpled paper in a plastic bowl and packed away to spend the night in the \"strong room\" of the Borthwick Institute of Historical Research at the University of York.\n\nThe helmet is easily the best preserved Anglo-Saxon example, although its violent manner of discovery caused it significant damage. The excavator appears to have struck near the top of the rear dexter side, shearing off rivets and taking the rear infill plate to pieces. The front infill plate was itself dislodged, while the lateral band was broken off and folded. This caused with it the crumpling and breaking into three pieces of the lateral inscription band, the rear edge pieces of which were lost entirely; these may have been catapulted across the construction site. The rear dexter portion of the nose-to-nape band was also driven inwards. The shock of the excavator's strike probably also accounts for a missing portion along the rear sinister brow band, which may have corroded before disintegrating with the impact. The suspension strip from which the camail would have hung was also missing in this area, although it may have been removed before the helmet's deposition.\n\nThe pit in which the helmet was found was lined with oak planks that had been pressed into the clay. It was most probably a well; the lack of food or human parasite ova remains suggests that it was not a toilet or cesspit, while plant and animal remains are consistent with an open, aquatic environment. The helmet appears to have been intentionally hidden within it, probably with the intention of recovery. The sinister cheek piece and the camail had been carefully removed and placed inside the cap, which was then placed upside down in the pit, keeping the three parts together. At the same time, the random assortment of items also found in the pit does not suggest that the helmet was deposited as a type of offering. The volatile state of York during the eighth and ninth centuries would have given the helmet's owner ample opportunity to consider hiding it in a well. The Vikings invaded York in 866, the Northumbrians, unsuccessfully, a year later. Nor had the preceding century of Northumbrian rule been peaceful; between 758 and 867, every King of Northumbria whose fate is known was either murdered, killed in battle or forced out. Any one of these turbulent periods could have inspired the owner of the helmet to hide it with the unrealised intention of recovering it later.\n\nFor the five weeks following its discovery, the helmet was placed in an airtight Perspex box with a humid nitrogen atmosphere. This was to solve the seemingly contradictory problems of conserving any remaining organic matter, which would need to be kept moist, and conserving the iron of the helmet, which would normally need to be kept dry to avoid corrosion. The humid nitrogen container avoided the latter danger by removing the oxygen needed for oxidation to occur. In this state the helmet was held stable; to allow for radiography and other examination it was removed from its container four times, for no more than two hours at a time, at which point some rusting occurred. The scans revealed the presence of the camail and the sinister cheek guard within the cap of the helmet, otherwise filled with clay. In mid-June the interior of the helmet was excavated in intervals, corresponding to the vertical slices taken of the helmet when it was CT scanned. No significant organic materials were found—it had been hoped that an interior leather cap, worn as additional padding, might be present—allowing the helmet to be protected against corrosion more easily, by sealing it in a new Perspex box desiccated with sachets of silica gel.\n\nThe helmet next had the accumulated layers of corrosion removed. This was done manually, using brushes and a scalpel, with an eye towards preserving the corrosion which itself retained the original surface texture of the helmet. Micro-abrasive blasting was used on some areas such as the sinister cheek guard, after its broken fragments were adhered together, as the corrosion was too heavy and the surfaces too fragile to press against with the scalpel. Most of the brass fittings needed only cleaning with glass bristle brush, and the interior of the cap was only lightly cleaned, leaving material for possible future analysis. The mail, extremely well preserved despite being a cemented block when removed from the cap of the helmet, was freed by using a scalpel and mounted needle to chip away the corrosion. Open rings were adhered closed, and cotton thread used to connect incomplete rings.\n\nDiscussions the following year considered sending the helmet away for restoration, and on 21 June 1983 it was sent to the British Museum. The museum's task was largely to undo the damage caused by the excavator by reshaping deformed pieces, reattaching loose fragments, and filling in missing areas. It was also tasked with creating a mount for display. The decision to restore the helmet was controversial. The York Archaeological trust argued that doing so would risk destroying archaeological evidence, but was overruled by the York City Council.\n\nThe nose-to-nape band was first reshaped with the use of a jig fastened to the helmet with three clamps, the middle of which was tightened to bend the metal into place. The remaining reshaping was primarily carried out with padded clamps, hammers, and wooden stakes, although small fragments of the dexter lateral band and rear infill place were soldered in place at a high temperature. The reshaped components were held in place using steel bolts; unlike the rivets originally used, the heads of the bolts are slightly raised from the surface of the helmet. The crushed and broken lateral inscription band, meanwhile, was annealed with a natural gas bunsen burner before being reshaped with wood and Perspex levers. The two surviving strips edging the inscription band were manually reshaped, while the missing pieces, which may have been catapulted across the construction site by the excavator, were recreated with brass. The recreated strips did not repeat the engraved chevron pattern of the originals, creating a visible distinction between old and new. In its restored state, the inscription band was placed on the helmet with a cellulose nitrate adhesive. At some point in the process a slight dent in the front portion of the nose-to-nape inscription band was also reshaped, despite the belief that it represented contemporary use of the helmet, not post-deposition damage.\n\nA new suspension strip was created to replace the missing sinister half, and damaged rings had new rings of iron wire adhered to them in support. The camail was then rehung, and attached to three loops on each cheek guard. Replacements were made for several missing loops. Gaps in protection were apparent between the loops, and so a wire was threaded through the loops to pull the rings against the cheek pieces; this was an invention of the laboratory with no evidence of contemporary practice, but is reversible.\n\nThe significant gaps in the helmet were filled in with polyester resin paste and fine copper gauze. The gauze was cut to fit the size of the holes and edged with tin solder. It was then held in place either by metal bolts put through the original rivet holes, or by the polyester resin paste. This paste was spread atop the gauze, creating a smooth surface that was then coloured with natural powder pigments and shellac dissolved in industrial methylated spirits to match the original tone of the helmet. Finally, the helmet was cleaned with 15% formic acid, washed with distilled water, dried in hot air, and coated with Renaissance Wax. A Perspex mount was built, containing three silicone rubber buffers on which the helmet rests. The restoration was completed in February 1984.\n\nThe helmet forms part of the permanent collection of the Yorkshire Museum and has been included in many public exhibitions since its discovery.\n\nDuring the 2009–2010 closure of the Yorkshire Museum for a major refurbishment, the helmet was displayed in the British Museum as part of the exhibition 'Treasures from Medieval York: England's other capital'. When the museum reopened in August 2010 the helmet was displayed in the Medieval gallery in the exhibition 'Medieval York: The Power and the Glory'. From 2012-2013 it was displayed in the 'York 1212: The Making of a City' exhibition, celebrating 800 years since York received a Royal charter.\n\nFrom 8 April to 5 May 2017, the helmet was on display in the Jorvik Viking Centre.\n\nFrom 2017 the helmet formed part of a touring exhibition titled 'Viking: Rediscover the Legend' and is displayed alongside the Bedale Hoard, the Vale of York hoard and the Cuerdale hoard, with the tour starting at the Yorkshire Museum in May 2017 with subsequent displays at the Atkinson Art Gallery and Library in Southport, Aberdeen Art Gallery, Norwich Castle Museum, and the University of Nottingham.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1743600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1743600", "title": "Crescent Arts Centre", "text": "Crescent Arts Centre\n\nThe Crescent Arts Centre is an arts centre based in a Victorian-era listed building in Belfast, Northern Ireland. It was founded in 1980, and the building was extensively refurbished between 2008 and 2010. The Centre hosts a wide range of arts and entertainment events, as well as classes in dance, music, verbal and visual arts, and community outreach programmes. The patron of the Centre is Paul Muldoon. Its facilities include a dance studio named after its late patron, the choreographer and Holocaust survivor Helen Lewis.\n\nThe centre also organises two major annual events; a dance festival in June (City Dance) and a literary festival (The Belfast Book Festival, formerly Between the Lines) in March/April.\n\nThe Crescent Arts Centre is situated in the Queens Conservation Area in the former Victoria College on University Road. In September 2008, then Minister of Culture Arts and Leisure, Gregory Campbell, announced the awarding of capital funding to allow refurbishment of the University Road site to get underway. The total cost would be £7.2million. The Department of Culture, Arts and Leisure provided £4.5million; the Arts Council of Northern Ireland £1.45million; the Heritage Lottery Fund £447,000; and the then Environment and Heritage Service £525,900. The Crescent itself contributed £236,000 and has appointed fundraising consultants to raise the rest.\n"}
{"id": "57877125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57877125", "title": "Displaying the Body of Saint Bonaventure", "text": "Displaying the Body of Saint Bonaventure\n\nDisplaying the Body of Saint Bonaventure (French - \"Exposition du corps de saint Bonaventure\") is a 1629 painting by Francisco de Zurbarán, now in the Louvre. Around the body of saint Bonaventure are figures including James I of Aragon and Pope Gregory X, shown in conversation. It formed part of a series of paintings on the saint's life - the other works are \"Saint Bonaventure at the Council of Lyon\" (Louvre), \"Saint Bonaventure and the Angel\" (Dresden) and \"Saint Bonaventure and Saint Thomas Aquinas before a Crucifix\" (Berlin). \n"}
{"id": "953263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=953263", "title": "Dogs Playing Poker", "text": "Dogs Playing Poker\n\nDogs Playing Poker, by Cassius Marcellus Coolidge, refers collectively to an 1894 painting, a 1903 series of sixteen oil paintings commissioned by Brown & Bigelow to advertise cigars, and a 1910 painting. All eighteen paintings in the overall series feature anthropomorphized dogs, but the eleven in which dogs are seated around a card table have become well known in the United States as examples of kitsch art in home decoration.\n\nCritic Annette Ferrara has described \"Dogs Playing Poker\" as \"indelibly burned into ... the American collective-schlock subconscious ... through incessant reproduction on all manner of pop ephemera\".\n\nThe first painting, Coolidge's 1894 Poker Game, realized $658,000 at a Sotheby's New York sale on 18 November 2015.\n\nThe title of Coolidge's 1894 painting is \"Poker Game\".\n\nThe titles in the Brown & Bigelow \"Dogs Playing Poker\" series are:\n\nThese were followed in 1910 by a similar painting, Looks Like Four of a Kind.\n\nSome of the compositions in the series are modeled on paintings of human card-players by such artists as Caravaggio, Georges de La Tour, and Paul Cézanne.\n\nOn February 15, 2005, the originals of \"A Bold Bluff\" and \"Waterloo\" were auctioned as a pair to an undisclosed buyer for US $590,400. The previous top price for a Coolidge was $74,000.\nThe 2015 sale price of Coolidge's 1894 \"Poker Game\", $658,000, is now the highest price paid for a Coolidge.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22393372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22393372", "title": "Edmund Harvey (social reformer)", "text": "Edmund Harvey (social reformer)\n\nThomas Edmund Harvey (4 January 1875 – 3 May 1955), generally known as Edmund Harvey, was an English museum curator, social reformer and politician. He sat in Parliament, first as a Liberal and later as an Independent Progressive. He was also a prolific writer on Christianity and the role and history of the Society of Friends.\n\nHarvey was born in Leeds to a prominent Quaker family. He was the eldest son of William Harvey, a teacher and art collector, who made a substantial gift of paintings by Dutch and Flemish masters to the nation, as well as being a local politician, serving for 13 years on Leeds City Council. Ted Harvey was educated at Bootham School in York and attended Yorkshire College, Leeds and Christ Church, Oxford. He also studied at the University of Berlin and the Sorbonne in Paris, as well as at other institutions overseas. In 1900 he received his MA degree from Oxford University with First Class honours in Literae Humaniores. He later received an honorary Doctorate of Laws from Leeds University. In 1911 he married Alice Irene Thompson, the daughter of the eminent physicist Professor Silvanus P. Thompson FRS.\n\nHis brother was the writer William Fryer Harvey, best known for his short story The Beast with Five Fingers that was turned into a film of the same name, starring Peter Lorre.\n\nIn 1900 Harvey enrolled as an assistant at the British Museum, where he worked until 1904. However, he was also deeply interested in social reform and welfare, especially the alleviation of poverty, educational and prison reform issues. He chose to pursue this work through the settlement movement, and was a resident of Toynbee Hall from 1900, Deputy Warden from July 1904 and became Warden of Toynbee Hall, 1906–1911. From 1906 to 1910 he was a member of the Central (Unemployed) Body for London, the organisation responsible for registering those unemployed men applying for unemployment relief and finding work for them. From 1920 to 1921 he was Warden of Swarthmore Settlement in Leeds. Harvey was among a number of reformers, including R. H. Tawney and Harvey's predecessor as Warden of Toynbee Hall, Canon Samuel Augustus Barnett, who recognised that the emphasis of settlement work needed to be moved away from the simple provision of relief and help and towards a wider agenda based upon social investigation, the raising of public awareness of social problems and broader political legislation.\n\nHarvey’s politics were strongly linked to his religious and social beliefs. He was elected to the London County Council for Finsbury East as a Progressive and served 1904–1907, during which time he sat on the Education Committee. He was also an elected member of Stepney Borough Council 1909–1911.\n\nHarvey first stood for Parliament at the United Kingdom general election, January 1910, for Leeds West, holding Herbert Gladstone's old seat for the Liberals by a majority of 3,315 votes. He retained Leeds West at the December 1910 general election, increasing his majority to 4,270.\n\nWhile an MP, Harvey was a member of the Standing Committee on Boy Labour in the Post Office (1910–1917). He acted as unpaid Parliamentary Private Secretary to Ellis Ellis-Griffith KC, Under-Secretary of State at the Home Office, and performed the same role for Charles Masterman, Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, 1913–1914, although he resigned the post on the outbreak of the First World War.\n\nAs a Quaker, Harvey was placed in a difficult personal position by Britain's declaration of war in August 1914. Quakers traditionally took the view that all war is incompatible with the spirit and teachings of Christ. Harvey was a pacifist and profoundly wished to keep Britain out of the war and supported those elements in the government, particularly the Foreign Secretary, Sir Edward Grey, who were working to prevent a general war. Harvey remained one of the small band of Liberals, at that time still including Norman Angell and E D Morel, who had grave doubts about the war.\nThroughout the First World War and until 1920 Harvey, in the Quaker tradition, engaged personally in relief work in the war zone in France, on behalf of the War Victims’ Relief Committee of the Society of Friends. But Harvey's dilemma over support for the government, as distinct from his religious beliefs, surfaced when he and another Liberal Quaker MP, Arnold Stephenson Rowntree, helped to draft the section of the Military Service Act 1916 that provided for the possibility of conscientious objectors being required to perform work of national importance as a condition of exemption from service in the army. There was disagreement among Quakers about the sort of service, if any, which conscientious objectors should be asked to do, and Harvey and Rowntree were accused of arrogating to themselves the right to specify what objectors might do and of misrepresenting to the authorities the extent to which they could speak for Quaker opinion. He also served as a member of the Pelham Committee (formally, the Committee on Work of National Importance), the body charged in March 1916 with trying to find suitable civilian occupations for conscientious objectors prepared to undertake the work of national importance he had helped to be written into the Military Service Act.\n\nHarvey stood down from Parliament at the 1918 general election, but tried to re-enter the House of Commons in 1922, having in 1921 been selected as Liberal candidate for Dewsbury in the West Riding of Yorkshire. Dewsbury had been Sir Walter Runciman's seat up until 1918, when, as an opponent of the Coalition government of David Lloyd George, Runciman had been opposed by a Coalition Conservative who had the benefit of the government coupon. In a three-cornered contest Harvey nearly regained the seat for the Liberals in 1922, but lost to Labour candidate Ben Riley by 756 votes (3.3% of the total vote), the Conservative candidate Osbert Peake, later to be MP for Leeds North came third.\n\nHarvey was, however, returned to Parliament for Dewsbury at the 1923 general election, when he defeated Riley in a straight fight to win by a majority of 2,256 votes. At the 1924 general election the situation was again reversed. This time Riley won the seat back, and in a three-cornered contest Harvey fell to the bottom of the poll.\n\nHarvey did not stand for election in Dewsbury again. For the 1929 general election he returned to his old stamping ground of Leeds. On this occasion he abandoned Leeds West, where Liberal candidates had come bottom of the poll at the last three general elections, trying Leeds North instead. He was not successful, coming third in a three-way fight with his old antagonist Osbert Peake winning the seat for the Tories.\n\nHarvey continued to support the Liberal Party, being sometime Yorkshire representative on the National Liberal Federation but he did not stand for Parliament in the general elections of 1931 or 1935.\n\nIn 1937 Harvey was chosen as a candidate in a by-election for the Combined English Universities seat. He stood as an Independent Progressive candidate, saying that contests for the University seats ought to be fought on ideas and not on party political lines. Against him were Conservative and Independent rivals, but Harvey won with a majority of 1,644 votes. He retained his links with Liberalism, however – the party leader Sir Archie Sinclair, Ramsay Muir and the Liberal Party Organisation all sent messages of congratulation to Harvey when he won the by-election. He held the Combined English Universities seat until the 1945 general election, when he stood down from Parliament for the last time, aged 70.\n\nDuring his time in Parliament as an Independent, and consistent with his representation of a University seat, Harvey championed the plight of foreign academics and scientist forced by various regimes to flee as refugees.\n\nRetaining his lifelong interest in social reform, Harvey was a Master of the charitable trust the Guild of St George 1934–51. Harking back to his museum work and because of his father's gift of paintings to the nation, Harvey also served as the Chairman of the National Loan Collection Trust, the body set up to co-ordinate the lending of pictures to municipal and other provincial art galleries.\n\nHarvey died at his home, Rydal House, Grosvenor Road, Leeds on 3 May 1955 aged 80 years.\n\n\nHarvey’s correspondence with conscientious objectors from 1916–1920; Pelham Committee papers, and other correspondence are available in the Friends Library in London.\nSome of Harvey’s family correspondence can also be seen at Leeds University Library in the collection of papers relating to the Harvey family of Leeds.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25907070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25907070", "title": "Ethnoscience", "text": "Ethnoscience\n\nEthnoscience has been defined as an attempt \"to reconstitute what serves as science for others, their practices of looking after themselves and their bodies, their botanical knowledge, but also their forms of classification, of making connections, etc.\" (Augé, 1999: 118).\n\nEthnoscience has not always focused on ideas distinct from those of \"cognitive anthropology\", \"component analysis\", or \"the New Ethnography\"; it is a specialization of indigenous knowledge-systems, such as ethno-botany, ethno-zoology, ethno-medicine, etc. (Atran, 1991: 595). According to Scott Atran, ethnoscience looks at culture with a scientific perspective (1991: 650), although most anthropologists abhor this definition. Ethnoscience helps to understand how people develop with different forms of knowledge and beliefs, and focuses on the ecological and historical contributions people have been given (Atran, 1991: 650). Tim Ingold describes ethnoscience as a cross-discipline (2000: 160). He writes that ethnoscience is based on increased collaboration between social sciences and the humanities (e.g., anthropology, sociology, psychology, and philosophy) with natural sciences such as biology, ecology, or medicine (Ingold, 2000: 406-7). At the same time, ethnoscience is increasingly transdisciplinary in its nature (Ingold, 2000: 407).\n\nOf course, naturally over time, the ways in which data has been collected and studied has changed and the field has evolved, becoming more detailed and specific (Urry, 1972: 45). The ideas, mechanics, and methods of ethnoscience evolved from something else - a combination of several things. This pretext amalgamation of theories, processes, and –isms led to the evolution of today's ethnoscience.\n\nEarly on, Franz Boas established cultural relativism as an approach to understanding indigenous scientific practices (Uddin, 2005: 980). Cultural relativism identifies people's differences and shows how they are a result of the social, historical, and geographical conditions (Uddin, 2005: 980). Boas is known for his work in Northern Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, working with the Kwakwaka'wakw Indians, which is where he established the importance of culture (Uddin, 2005: 980). Lévi-Strauss' structuralism was a strong contributor to the ideas of ethnoscience (Uddin, 2005: 980). It, itself, was the leading idea of providing structure to the research and a guide to organizing and relating different cultures. \"Ethnoscience refers to a 'reduction of chaos' achieved by a particular culture, rather than to the 'highest possible and conscious degree' to which such chaos may be reduced;\" basically, the ethnoscience of a society creates its culture (Sturtevant, 1964: 100). Much of the influence of anthropology, e.g., geographical determinism, was through the contributions of Jean Bodin (Harris, 1968: 42). In his text, he tried to explain why \"northern people were faithful, loyal to the government, cruel, and sexually uninterested, compared to why southern people were malicious, craft, wise, expert in science but ill-adapted to political activity (Harris, 1968: 52).\" The Greek historian, Polybius, asserted \"we mortals have an irresistible tendency to yield to climatic influences; and to this cause, and no other, may be traced the great distinctions that prevail among us in character, physical formation, complexion, as well as in most of our habits…\" (quoted in Harris, 1968: 41).\n\nAnother aspect of anthropology prior to ethnoscience is enculturation. Newton and Newton described enculturation as a process whereby the novice, or \"outsider\", learns what is important to the \"insider\" (1998). Marvin Harris writes, \"One of [enculturation's] most important technical expressions is the doctrine of 'psychic unity,' the belief that in the study of sociocultural differences, hereditary (genetic) differences cancel each other out, leaving 'experience' as the most significant variable\" (Harris, 1968: 15). This is one of the many starts of people opening up to the idea that just because people are different, doesn't mean they are wrong in their thinking. Harris describes how religious beliefs hinder and affect the progress of anthropology and ethnography. The moral beliefs and restrictions of religion fought against anthropological ideas, possibly due to (especially at the time) to the newly hyped idea of evolutionism and Darwinism (Harris, 1968).\n\nBronislaw Malinowski was one of many who contributed heavily to the precursor of ethnoscience. His earlier work brought attention to sociological studies; his earliest publication focused on a family in Australia, using a sociological study perspective (Harris, 1968: 547). After the First World War, anthropological work was at a stand still; nothing had evolved, if not regressed (Urry, 1972: 54). This allowed him to start from scratch, and rebuild his ideas and methods (Harris, 1968: 547).\n\nLater, however, Malinowski branched out to political evolution during World War II. The period after World War II is what led to ethnoscience; anthropologists learned their skills could be applied to problems that were affecting modern societies (Mead, 1973: 1). Malinowski said \"… with his tables of kinship terms, genealogies, maps, plans and diagrams, proves an extensive and big organization, shows the contribution of the tribe, of the clan, of the family, and he gives a picture of the natives subjected to a strict code of behavior and good manners, to which in comparison the life at the Court of Versailles or Escurial was free and easy\" (1922: 10). After World War II, there was an extreme amount of growth in the anthropological field, not only with research opportunities but academically, as well (Mead, 1973: 2).\n\nThe anthropologist Robin Horton, who taught at several Nigerian universities, considered the traditional knowledge of indigenous peoples as incorporated within conceptual world views that bear certain similarities to, and differences from, the modern scientific worldview. Like modern science, traditional thought provides a theoretical structure that \"places things in a causal order wider than that provided by common sense\" (Horton, 1967, p. 53). In contrast to modern science, he saw traditional thought as having a limited awareness of theoretical alternatives and, consequently, displaying \"an absolute acceptance of the established theoretical tenets\" (Horton, 1967, pp. 155–6).\n\nThere are dozens, if not hundreds, of related methods and processes that preceded ethnoscience. Ethnoscience is just another way to study the human culture and the way people interact in society. Taking a look at the ideas and analyses prior to ethnoscience can help understand why it was developed in the first place. Although, it is not widely used and there is criticism on both ends, ethnoscience allows for a more comprehensive way to collect data and patterns of a people. This is not to say the process is its best or that there will be nothing better. That is the best part: everything evolves, even thought. Just as the ideas did in the past, they can improve over time and regress over time but change is inevitable.\n\nEthnoscience is a new term and study that came into anthropological theory in the 1960s. Often referred to as \"indigenous knowledge\", ethnoscience introduces a perspective based on native perceptions. It is based on a complete emic perspective, which excludes all observations, interpretations and or any personal notions belonging to the ethnographer. The taxonomy and classification of indigenous systems, to name a few, used to categorize plants, animals, religion and life is adapted from a linguistic analysis. The concept of \"Native Science\" is also related to the understanding the role of the environment intertwined with the meaning humans place upon their lives. Understanding the language and the native people's linguistic system is one method to understand a native people's system of knowledge of organization. Not only is there categorization for things pertaining to nature and culture thought language, but more importantly and complex is the relationship between environment and culture. Ethnoscience looks at the intricacies of the connection between culture and its surrounding environment. There are also potential limitations and shortcomings in interpreting these systems of knowledge as a dictation of culture and behavior.\n\nSince an ethnographer is not able to physically enter inside an indigenous person's mind, it is essential to not only create a setting or question-answer format to understand perspective but to analyze semantics and word order of given answer to derive an emic understanding. The main focus on a particular component of the languages is placed on its lexicon. The terms \"etic\" and \"emic\" are derived from the linguistic terms of \"phonetic\" and \"phonemic\".\n\nAs introduced by Gregory Cajete, some limitations the concept of indigenous knowledge, is the potential to bypass non-indigenous knowledge as pertinent and valuable. The labels of \"indigenous\" are overly accepted by those who seek more support by outsiders to further their cause. There might also be an unequal distribution of knowledge amongst a tribe or peoples. There is also the idea that culture is bound by environment. Some theorists conclude that indigenous people's culture is not operated by mental concentrations but solely by the earth that surrounds them. Some theorists go the extent to state that biological processes are based upon the availability, of lack thereof, environmental resources. The methods for sustainability are founded through the workings of the land. These techniques are exercised from the basis of tradition. The importance of the combination of ecological process, social structures, environmental ethics and spiritual ecology are crucial to the expression of the true connection between the natural world and \"ecological consciousness\".\n\nThe origin of Ethnoscience began between the years 1960 to 1965; deriving from the concept of \"ethno- + science\". Ethno- a combining form meaning \"race\", \"culture\", \"people\", used in the formation of compound words: ethnography. The two concepts later emerged into \"ethno-science\". The origin of the word 'science' involves the empiric observation of measurable quantities and the testing of hypotheses to falsify or support them. \n\"Ethnoscience refers to the system of knowledge and cognition typical of a given culture...to put it another way a culture itself amounts to the sum of a given society's folk classifications, all of that society's ethnoscience, its particular ways of classifying its material and social universe\" (Sturtevant 1964: 99–100). The aim of ethnoscience is to gain a more complete description of cultural knowledge. Ethnoscience has been successfully used on several studies of given cultures relating to their linguistics, folk taxonomy, and how they classify their foods, animals and plants.\n\nEthnoscience is the examination of the perceptions, knowledge, and classifications of the world as reflected in their use of language, which can help anthropologists understand a given culture. By using an ethnographic approach to studying a culture and learning their lexicon and syntax they are able to gain more knowledge in understanding how a particular culture classifies its material and social universe. In addition, this approach \"adopted provides simultaneously a point at which the discipline of linguistics, or at least some of its general attitudes, may sensibly be used in anthropology and as a means of gaining insight not only into the nature of man but also into the nature of culture\" (Videbeck and Pia, 1966).\n\nResearchers can use linguistics to study what a given culture considers important in a given situation or unforeseen event, and can rank those potential situations in terms of their likelihood to recur. In addition, \"understanding the contingencies is helpful in the task of comprehending folk taxonomies on the one hand, and, on the other, an understanding of the taxonomy is required for a full scale appreciation of criteria considered relevant in a given culture (Videbeck and Pia, 1966).\n\nEthnoscience can be used to analyze the kinship terminology of a given culture, using their language and according to how they view members of their society. Taxonomies \"are models of analysis whose purpose is the description of particular types of hierarchical relationships between members of a given set of elements\" (Perchonock and Werner, 1969). For example, in our society we classify family groups by giving members the title of father, mother, sister, daughter, brother, son, grandfather, grandmother, etc.\n\nEthnoscience deals with how a given culture classifies certain principles in addition to how it is express through their language. By understanding a given culture through how they view the world, anthropologists attempt to eliminate any bias through translation as well as categorized their principles in their own ways. \"The new methods, which focus on the discovery and description of folk systems, have come to be known as Ethnoscience. Ethnoscience analysis has thus far concentrated on systems of classification within such cultural and linguistic domains as colors, plants, and medicines\" (Perchonock and Werner, 1969). An ethnoscientific approach can be used to better understand a given culture and their knowledge of their culture. Using an ethnographic approach can help anthropologists understand how that given culture views and categorizes their own foods, animal kingdom, medicines, as well as plants.\n\nEthnoscience can be effectively summed up as a classification system for a particular culture in the same way that a botanist would use a taxonomic system for the classification of plant species. Everything from class levels, food consumption, clothing, and material culture objects would be subjected to a taxonomic classification system. In essence, ethnoscience is a way of classifying cultural systems in a structured order to better understand the culture.\nThe roots of ethnoscience can be traced back to influential anthropologists such as Franz Boas, Bronislaw Malinowski, and Benjamin Whorf who attempted to understand other cultures from an insider's perspective. Ward Goodenough is accredited for bringing ethnoscience to the stage when he define cultural systems of knowledge by stating:\n\n\"\"A societies culture consists of whatever it is one has to know or believe in order to operate in a manner acceptable to its members. Culture is not a material phenomenon; it does not consist of things, behavior, or emotions. It is rather an organization of these things. It is the form of things that people have in mind, their models for perceiving, relating, and otherwise interpreting them.\"\n\" (Goodenough 1957:167)\nIn order to properly put ethnoscience in context we must first understand the definition of ethnoscience. it is defined as \"an attempt at cultural description from a totally emic perspective (a perspective in ethnography that uses the concepts and categories that are relevant and meaningful to the culture that is insider analysis) standpoint, this eliminating all of the ethnographer's own categories\" (Morey and Luthans 27). Ethnoscience is also a way of learning and understanding how an individual or group perceive their environment and how they fit in with their environment as reflected in their own words and actions.\n\nEthnoscience has many techniques when applied to an emic perspective. Ethnosemantics, ethnographic semantics, ethnographic ethnoscience, formal analysis, and componential analysis are the terms that apply to the practice of ethnoscience. Ethnosemantics looks at the meaning of words in order to place them in context of the culture being studied. It allows for taxonomy of a certain part of the culture being looked at so that there is a clear breakdown which in turn leads to a deeper understanding of the subject at hand. Ethnographic semantics are very similar to cognitive anthropology in that its primary focus is the intellectual and rational perspectives of the culture being studied. Ethnographic semantics specifically looks at how language is used throughout the culture. Lastly, ethnographic ethnoscience is related to ethnosemantics such that, it uses a taxonomic system to understand how cultural knowledge is accessible through language. Ethnographic ethnoscience uses similar classification systems for cultural domains like ethnobotany and ethnoanatomy. Again, ethnoscience is a way of understanding a how a culture sees itself through its own language. Understanding the cultural language allows the ethnographer to have a deeper and more intimate understanding of the culture.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5489218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5489218", "title": "Eulama", "text": "Eulama\n\nEulama Literary Agency (Eulama) is a literary agency which represents a vast array of authors, script writers, as well as a variety of companies and their products.\n\nEulama is the second oldest literary agency in Italy. It was founded in 1962 in Buenos Aires, Argentina, by Harald Kahnemann-Oppenheimer and Karin von Prellwitz, who had emigrated to Argentina from their homes in Germany two decades earlier. The name Eulama is short for European Latin American Agency. The Agency is now Europe based, but it still keeps a close working relationship with the most authoritative Latin American publishers. Since 1964 the head office of the Agency has moved from Montevideo to Rome, from where Eulama operates worldwide, negotiating and licensing literary rights,serializations, permissions, audio, film and co-production rights on behalf of clients all over the world. Furthermore, Eulama also operates in areas such as monitoring production-related activities of licensees, collecting due payments and researching financial solvency and business history of potential licensees.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46528784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46528784", "title": "Gangstar Vegas", "text": "Gangstar Vegas\n\nGangstar Vegas (originally known as Gangstar Vegas: City of Sin and is alternatively known as Gangstar 4: Vegas) is an open world action-adventure video game developed by Gameloft for Android and iOS (both iPhone/iPod Touch and iPad). It is the fifth main installment in the \"Gangstar\" series, and was released on June 7, 2013. \"Gangstar Vegas\" is preceded by \"\" and is succeeded by Gangstar: New Orleans.\n\n\"Gangstar Vegas\" is set in modern-day Las Vegas, Nevada. The story revolves around Jason Malone, a skilled MMA fighter who is targeted by Frank Veliano after winning in a match. Like games in the \"Grand Theft Auto\" series, \"Gangstar Vegas\" has elements from driving games and third-person shooters, and features \"open-world\" gameplay that gives the player more control over their playing experience.\n\nDuring its release, it received mixed reviews from critics and players alike, whom they criticized the laggy graphics, animation, and its frequent updates, but praised the music and the extensive use of 3D graphics, which some players noted as an improvement of the previous game. It was also a commercial success, having been downloaded 50 million times from iOS and Android.\n\n\"Gangstar Vegas\" is structured similarly to previous games in the series, and by extension, to \"Grand Theft Auto\" and its numerous clones. The overall play area is much larger, with Gameloft marketing it as \"Gangstar's largest open world\". In addition to the main storyline, players can free roam and/or partake in a number of side activities, namely bank robberies, street racing and underground fighting tournaments. Property management is also present, allowing the player to gain income through businesses acquired during the course of the game. In keeping with the game's Las Vegas theme, casino minigames such as video poker, blackjack and slot machines were also introduced, along with a number of establishments such as a nightclub and convenience stores.\n\nA number of updates were added to \"Gangstar Vegas\" after its initial release, among them a \"Saints Row\"-esque \"Gangstar vs. Aliens\" pack, and a Christmas-themed update adding new clothing and vehicles such as a rocket-powered sleigh. In addition, the game has since been released as a free-to-play title, with bonus content available through microtransactions. Its frequent use of updating also received criticism from some fans and critics, whom they noted the lack of weapons, vehicles, and costumes, and the lag graphics part.\n\nProfessional MMA fighter Jason \"the Kid\" Malone is bribed by the powerful Mafia leader, Don Frank Veliano, to take a dive in his fight against Pietro Holston. Frank Veliano told Jason Malone to fall in the fourth round but Pietro falls before Jason can take the dive. He is chased by Frank and his Mafia before Karen Olsen, the accountant and bodyguard of Vera \"Leatherface\" Montello, arrives and helps him escape. Jason later works for the Montello queenpin, Karen and Eric \"E-Man\", a pimp and drug maker-dealer, mostly in causing chaos against the Velianos.\n\nFrank and his henchmen later storm Montello's celebration, capturing Jason and forcing him to work for the Velianos, including Benny, Frank's right-hand man, and mayoral candidate Rev. Winston \"Preacher\" Goodman. Jason steals a boat, a seaplane and a helicopter for the Velianos, as well as fighting the Hispanic street gang, the Huevos. After crashing the Huevos' party, however, Jason finds that the Velianos have kidnapped Karen, and are forcing Vera to hand over her strip club, Fire and Vice, to Frank in exchange for Karen.\n\nJason helps the Montellos save Karen by stealing wire tapping devices from an army base and planting it to pinpoint Frank and Karen's position. He later joins Eric and Vera to raid Frank's casino, where Karen is held. They then escape Frank's soldiers, but at the cost of Vera sacrificing herself to stop reinforcements, out of remorse for having bribed Pietro to lose the MMA fight.\n\nEnraged by Vera's loss, and the truth that Frank killed her father, Karen wants Jason out of the Mafia war. Jason saves her again from Veliano, convincing her to accept his help. Karen kisses Jason (it is also possible they make out in Jason's Whiptail, as the scene is faded out) before taking back Fire and Vice. Jason later sabotages Frank's villa, and uses the media (the only business in Vegas not controlled by Veliano) to mock the LVPD's incompetence (Frank has also bribed the police).\n\nFinding that Benny has been arrested, Frank seeks to remove him. Jason rescues Benny as Veliano's mob intercepts the police convoy. Benny has photos of Goodman's debauchery, and Jason threatens Goodman to turn against Frank, otherwise the photos are leaked. Cornered and betrayed, and with the FBI on his tail, Frank tries to flee Las Vegas with his money. Jason confronts him on the Wrecking Ball Hotel Casino Tower (a parody of Stratosphere Las Vegas), only to have Frank shoot at him, leaking the helicopter's fuel tank in the process. Jason lights up the petrol, setting Frank on fire and falling to his death, and then Jason parachute landing into Karen's Störer (a parody of the Koenigsegg CCX).\n\nThe game received mixed to positive reviews upon release, earning a score of 61 out of 100 at Metacritic. TouchArcade gave \"Gangstar Vegas\" four stars out of five in a mixed review, called the game an \"open-ended, violent, destruction-filled fun\" and praised the game's graphics, but criticised the \"hit and miss\" voice acting, controls and technical issues. A more critical review came from Pocket Gamer, viewing the game as misogynistic and bemoaned its control scheme and lack of polish, stating \"where its inspirations - the likes of \"\" and \"\" - are filled with exciting set pieces, interesting characters, and fun gewgaws, \"Gangstar Vegas\" is a sloppy, empty experience full of hollow-eyed caricatures.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "33383624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33383624", "title": "Gender advertisement", "text": "Gender advertisement\n\nGender advertisement refers to the images in advertising that depict stereotypical gender roles and displays. Gender displays are used heavily in advertising in order to establish the role of one gender in relation with the other, and some scholars argue that advertisers are obsessed with gender. Advertisers focus on gender relationships, because people define themselves by gender, and gender can be \"communicated at a glance\", making it easy for advertisers to use this theme in their work. The effects of advertising on body image have been studied by researchers, ranging from psychologists to marketing professionals. \"These days we know that the media and body image are closely related. Particularly, the body image advertising portrays affects our own body image. Of course, there are many other things that influence our body image: parenting, education, intimate relationships, and so on. The popular media does have a big impact, though.\" This is because thousands of advertisements contain messages about physical attractiveness and beauty, examples which include commercials for clothes, cosmetics, weight reduction, and physical fitness. Researchers have conducted studies in an attempt to see if such advertisements have effects on teenage body image, and what those effects might be. Women account for 85% of consumer purchases.\n\nAdvertising is a significant agent of socialization in modern industrialized societies, and is used as a tool to maintain certain social constructions, such as gender. Men and women are depicted as differing in attitudes, behavior, and social statuses. These differences are what separate the sexes into different genders. Gender advertisements give the viewers a glimpse into a world laden with socially defined and constructed gender relations, displays, and roles. These images are crafted to mimic real life and many mistake the concepts of fantasy and reality in regards to advertising. Erving Goffman would call it \"commercial realism\", when advertisers try to present the advertising world in ways which it could be real. Goffman argues that advertisements do not look strange to us, when they should. Advertisements take something that exists already in the world and they change it, forming a distorted reflection. \"They emphasize some things and de-emphasize others,\" it is a hyper ritualization of the world, and we recognize, and even relate with some of the images.\n\nIt is argued that these images could be teaching the viewers a vast array of social cues, and even the most subtle ones make an impact on the viewers. Further it is said that gender relations are learned through advertisements. Among these learned gender roles are those of femininity and masculinity. Men and women are portrayed in advertisements according to the constructed definition of femininity and masculinity. To be a woman is to be feminine and to be a man is to be masculine. There is little room for variation or a reversal of roles, except within the smaller frame of niche marketing.\nIn advertising, men are often portrayed in the following ways:\nSince the 1980s, men's bodies have been used more frequently in advertising, depicting a similarly idealized body image to that portrayed of women. Research suggests that men feel social pressure to endorse traditional masculine male models in advertising. Research by Martin and Gnoth (2009) found that feminine men preferred feminine models in private, but stated a preference for the traditional masculine models when their collective self was salient. In other words, when concerned about being classified by other men as feminine, feminine men endorsed traditional masculine models. The authors suggested this result reflected the social pressure on men to endorse traditional masculine norms. Researchers, such as Mary Martin and James Gentry, have found that teen advertising negatively impacts teenagers' self-esteem by setting unrealistic expectations for them about their physical appearances through the use of idealized models. It has been argued by Dworkin and Wachs (2009) that the widespread image of the 'healthy' and 'fit' bodies used by the media, exemplified by the muscular man and the slim woman promote the idea of an ideal and 'singular' body-type that should be strived after by both genders, but which may not fit with the reality of the disparity of body types. Studies show that these ideals have influences on the expectancies of what a healthy body constitutes in young people and can contribute negative mental health issues in regard to body image. Other researchers, such as Heidi Posavac, acknowledge this, but believe that this only applies to teenagers who already possess low self-esteem or a poor self-images. Further, a growing number of advertisements are showing men as sex objects. A study on male body obsession found that advertisements for everything from cars to underwear depicted bodybuilder images with \"washboard abdominal muscles, massive chests, and inflated shoulders, a mixture of muscularity and leanness probably attainable only by drugs\". In contrast, researchers, including Terry Bristol, have found teenagers to be generally unaffected by these advertisements due to the idea that repeat exposure can create an immunity to images and messages in advertisements. Moreover, some researchers, such as Paul Humphreys, have concluded that exposure to such advertisements can actually create higher self-esteem in teenagers. Though women's equality is advancing in society, men have become more fixated with muscularity because it is still seen as a cultural symbol of masculinity. In addition, it has been suggested that a muscular body has become an aesthetic norm for heterosexuals as well as homosexuals.\n\nIn a content analysis study of exclusively male images in men's magazines, it was found that most of the bodies in advertising were not 'ordinary', but those of strong and hard 'male figures'. The study showed that males in the advertisements were usually objectified and depersonalized.\n\nThe representation of ectomorphs (thin and lightly muscled) was limited predominantly to the advertising of clothing that may look more appealing on slimmer, taller men. Endomorphs (soft and round) were rarely depicted and if they were, tended to be the object of humour. It is important to note that representations of male bodies are often used irrespective of their relevance to the product being promoted.\n\nA study published in \"JAMA Pediatrics\" in January shows concerns about physique and muscularity in particular, among young males are \"relatively common\". The researchers said approximately 18 percent of participants in their study (which included 5,527 males) were \"extremely concerned for their weight and physique\". Furthermore, the researchers found 7.6 percent of young males were \"very concerned about muscularity\" and were using techniques that could be harmful to obtain an ideal body.\n\nPortrayals of women in advertising:\n\nThese are positions of submissiveness and powerlessness. This can be clearly seen when women are shown lying on the floor as men are standing over them, literally depicting women as being beneath men. Women are urged to pursue beauty and sex appeal, and part of the sex appeal is submission. Currently there are campaigns such as the Girl Effect Campaign that have worked to change the way in which women are perceived for the better. These campaigns aim to reclaim the saying \"like a girl.\"\n\nThe body – and particularly here the female body – is always inevitably controlled by social norms and the commodification of the body through industries such as fashion and beauty that exhibit femininity.\n\nThe discursive constructions of these female bodies are quite plainly 'prepared for consumption' by men. These constructions not only reveal the inevitable gender-power relations about the body but also suggest the cultural ambivalence about sexualized bodily display and image management. This sort of ambivalence both idealizes and denigrates individuals' explicitly performed efforts to produce and portray bodies that conform to societal 'ideals.'\n\nIn the book \"gender advertising\" by Erving Goffman it states: \"If gender is defined as the culturally established correlates of sex (whether in consequence of biology or learning) then gender display refers to conventionalized portrayals of those correlates.\" Gender displays can otherwise be defined as rituals of gender behavior, and they are used to help interpret social reality. This is what advertising mainly borrows from, and for Goffman this is the reason as to why ads do not look strange to the public. Further, Goffman argues that there are codes which can be used to identify gender. These codes of gender can be seen in the portrayals of men and women in advertising. There are four categories under which we can see these codes of gender: the family, the feminine touch, the ritualization of subordination, and licensed withdrawal.\n\nSometimes the traditional gender roles are reversed. When this happens, one can see men behaving in ways that are generally associated with femininity, and women behaving in typically masculine ways. This is often the case in gay and lesbian advertising. Witnessing these ads can be a shock to most, as they are not accustomed to this reversal of roles. This is an indicator that there is in fact a distinction between the genders in advertising.\n\nBeauty can be defined largely as a perception. It is a group of social norms that interpret a particular form of appearance that is valued. Since almost four decades ago, women have been expected to conform to a particular body image and to behave in a certain manner of which would ultimately decipher and enforce their femininity (Bordo, 1997, p. 94). Both men and women strive to achieve this beauty which influences them to shape themselves and alter their appearance in order to conform to those norms. These norms are largely derived from the media's presentation of models and well known stars through advertisements for products and magazine covers. As our society is now filled with these advertisements in all aspects of life, such as on TV, billboards, in supermarkets displayed with the products (particularly beauty products) and on social media, children are now viewing this material at a younger age and in turn creating the perception that this is the ideal appearance whilst they are still very impressionable. Young children learn by observing and imitating what is presented to them. \n\nIn the early twentieth century, society began to pursue material goods with the goal of fulfilling a general desire to own the item rather than for later use. This is largely due to the use of advertising media and the perception, particularly with beauty products, that the models pictured obtain their looks buy using these products.\n\nIt is very common for young men and women to compare themselves to models in ads, in terms of their physical attractiveness. The appearance and body size of the models within the advertisements in the final image seen by consumers are, more often than not, altered through editing programs such as Photoshop, in order to achieve the perfect (or impossible) desired look. The use of these images creates a false beauty ideal for both men and women to aspire to, as well as creating the use of extreme dieting and surgical procedures in order to resemble a similar image that is displayed in advertising. This emphasis on an ideal body appearance has been regarded as being psychologically detrimental to the well-being of many young men and women, and on their self-image. The extant research shows that stereotypes can be helpful or detrimental, depending on several factors, such as the gender attitudes of the audience.\n\nMagazine advertisements highlighting a thin, attractive female model yield greater self-objectification and the process of inspecting this type of advertisement can encourage women to think about their physical appearance as if looking on as a critical observer. Images from the media are frequently exposed to Western women, and the usage of skinny idealized women in advertising is prevalent. Data also shows that males who were exposed to advertisements of women being sexually objectified were more likely to believe stereotypes about sex roles as well as rape myth beliefs.\n\nWhen sexuality is used in advertising, certain values and attitudes towards sex are 'sold' along with a product. The message may be that \"innocence is sexy\", that women enjoy being dominated, that the use of a certain product is naughty but legal, or that use of a certain product will make the user more attractive to the opposite sex, and many other messages. The way beauty is portrayed in the media causes dissatisfaction and negative thoughts about oneself when those results are not achieved. Sociocultural standards of male images are presented in almost all forms of popular media, barraging men with images that portray what is considered to be the \"ideal body\". Such standards of beauty are almost completely unattainable for most men; a majority of the models displayed on television and in advertisements are well below what is considered healthy body weight. Mass media's use of such unrealistic models sends an implicit message that in order for a man to be considered beautiful, he must be unhealthy. The mindset that a person can never be \"too rich or too thin\" is all too prevalent in society, and it makes it difficult for males to achieve any level of contentment with their physical appearance. There has been a plethora of research to indicate that men are negatively affected by constant exposure to models that fulfill the unrealistic media ideal of beauty.\n\nOn the other hand, from the minute boys enter the classroom, masculine identity building is taking place in one form or another. At some level, teachers and students, both male and female, often act in accordance with a set of unspoken tenets that are subtly or explicitly reinforced through tacit approval, willing indifference, or a lack of awareness. William Pollack (as cited in Neu & Weinfeld, 2007) calls this set of culturally embedded expectations about masculinity the Boy Code. An examination of this \"code\" yields new insights about the troublesome behaviors exhibited by many struggling boys in classrooms and reveals why boys with certain styles (SF/Interpersonal and NF/Self-Expressive, specifically) might experience its negative impact more deeply than their peers.\n\nIn the book \"Helping Boys Succeed in School\", educators Terry Neu and Rich Weinfeld (2007) capture Pollack's Boy Code in the form of a \"dos and don'ts\" poster.\n\n\nThe research of Neu and Weinfeld shows that the process of developing ideal male images is taking place in classrooms.\n\nMuch of the existing literature on ideal male images has either focused narrowly on the impacts of media on adolescents' views towards ideal male images or parental style on the impacts on this topic. As a result, it often lacks the information necessary to systematically compare different groups' cultural backgrounds.\n\nThe impact of media on body image has been closely studied in the past years, today, the prevalence of sexual content in media has become increasingly high. , the average teenager in the U.S. consumes 3–4 hours of television a day, 30% of that being advertisements, and many adolescents are consuming 100 or more advertisements a day. With the rise of social media, online advertisements have also become increasingly abundant. Many advertisements depict people with idealized bodies, many of which are photoshopped. The average female model in the U.S. is a size 0 or 00 and is between the age of 14 and 19 years of age while the average woman living in the U.S. wears sizes 12–14. The models shown in many advertisements have bodies that are genetically unattainable.\n\nStudies have shown that consuming advertisements that contain ideal body image leads to an increase in body dissatisfaction, especially in young girls. Regardless of gender, self-objectification when viewing ideal body images in media may lead to negative feelings towards one's body. A 2015 research study revealed that these negative feelings may occur after observing an advertisement for only 3 minutes, specifically advertisements regarding the sexualization of both men and women. Thinking of one's body from an outside viewer's perspective may also lead to body shame, appearance anxiety, and in some cases contributes to certain eating disorders. In the context of women advertisement, the image demonstrates an individual need that can be fulfilled through the women's participation in commodity culture (Nelson, 2013). It must be noted that body-image meaning-transfer can be a lifelong process underlying the perpetual changes in the sociocultural environment, its cultural meaning, body-image trends, and pervasive media beauty ideologies (Yu et al. 2011).\n\nPeople organize their knowledge about the world around them by sorting and simplifying received information. Therefore, they create cognitive schemes, which are certain representations of the reality displaying its most typical and fundamental elements and properties. These schemes are responsible for defining the essence of our worldview and have a significant influence on social cognition – understanding, anticipation, situation and emotion control.\n\nGender roles have also been impacted by the media and advertising. SlutWalk is one phenomenon that emerges through incontemporary \"third-wave feminism\". The SlutWalk movement helps increase victim visibility and reintroduce sexual violence issues to the public. Gender roles within media and advertising have also been impacted by sex and relationship commitments. Men have positive attitudes toward casual and recreational sex, whereas women value the emotional intimacy and commitment around a sexual relationship. Difficulties in differentiating gender roles in the modern societies can be a perfect example of the negative social effects of using stereotypes. A division of gender roles is deeply rooted in today's society. Through the ages men have been considered to be financial providers, career-focused, assertive and independent, whereas women have been shown as low-position workers, loving wives and mothers, responsible for raising children and doing housework. Nowadays a family model is based rather on a partnership than on patriarchy and women have more rights and possibilities on the labor market. Feminist environment had a significant impact on the change in this situation. Women's liberation movement fought for the rights of women and for redefining traditional gender roles. Although females and males are still not equal, the differences between gender are not so vast anymore. Nevertheless, many social institutions, such as mass media, still use gender stereotypes, based on the assumption that they are well known to everyone and help the receivers to understand the content of the message.\n\nGender roles in media and advertising is impacted by humor. Advertising frequently uses gender roles to promote products. There are various stereotypes in regards to humorous advertising with both males and females. Stereotypes can product oversimplified conceptions and misapplied knowledge evaluations. Humor is generated on two steps. First, some kind of incongruity that violates a predominating view has to be recognized and, second, if people cognitively resolve this incongruity, they experience humor. Humor occurs when it seems that things are normal, while at the same time something goes wrong that breaks our expectations. Men could be depicted in domestic roles doing chores, whereas women would be presented in independent roles. This would break our expectation and society norms that revolve around the gender roles. Exaggerating these gender norms would have a potential to be humorous.\n\nMedia and advertising has also taken a strategic role in today's society. Women's behavioral intention is enhanced more through a transformation message strategy than an information message strategy. However, a man's behavioral intention is an information message strategy as opposed to a behavioral intention. Advertisements rarely portray people that look like \"us\", or the norm. Women are frail, thin, and often are edited or \"touched up\" to look thinner and flawless. The people at whom advertisements are aimed rarely look the same as those portrayed in the advertisements themselves. The Females process self-efficacy and behavioral intention emotionally rather than rationally like males do. Another gender difference that has emerged is consumer effectiveness and message strategy significantly predicted self-efficacy. These findings show a gender role within media and advertising.\n\nResearch suggests that there are four different and independent components. They are trait descriptors (self-assertion, concern for others), physical characteristics (hair length, body height), role behaviors (leader, taking care of children), and occupational status (truck driver, elementary school teacher, housewife). Each component has a masculine and a feminine version. Stereotyping becomes problematic when stereotypes lead to expectations and judgements that restrict life opportunities for subject of a social category. This is the reason why public policy is concerned about marketing activities that promote stereotypes. Each gender stereotype component can lead to negative consequences that restrict life opportunities, particularly for women. Physical characteristics can lead to reduced self-dignity, role behaviors may lead to restricted opportunities of self-development, and stereotyping of occupational roles may lead to disadvantages in women's careers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "401937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=401937", "title": "Good cop/bad cop", "text": "Good cop/bad cop\n\n\"Good cop/bad cop\" routine, also called joint questioning or friend and foe, is a psychological tactic used in negotiation and interrogation. \"Good cop/bad cop\" tactics involve a team of two interrogators who take apparently opposing approaches to the subject. The interrogators may interview the subject alternately or may confront the subject at the same time.\n\nThe \"bad cop\" takes an aggressive, negative stance towards the subject, making blatant accusations, derogatory comments, threats, and in general creating antipathy between the subject and himself. This sets the stage for the \"good cop\" to act sympathetically, appearing supportive and understanding, and in general showing sympathy for the subject. The good cop will also defend the subject from the bad cop. The subject may feel they can cooperate with the good cop either out of trust or out of fear of the bad cop. They may then seek protection by and trust the good cop and provide the information the interrogators are seeking.\n\nThis technique also has its disadvantages in that it can be easily identified and the \"bad cop\" may alienate the subject.\n\n"}
{"id": "58971806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58971806", "title": "Hermann Glaser (cultural historian)", "text": "Hermann Glaser (cultural historian)\n\nHermann Glaser (28 August 1928 - 18 June 2018) was a politically engaged cultural historian and commentator.\n\nHermann Glaser was born in Nuremberg, and though he became a national figure, his Middle Franconian provenance was always an important part of his public personality. His father was a secondary school teacher. He studied History, Philosophy, Germanistics and Anglistics at Erlangen and, for two terms, Bristol. It was from Erlangen that he received his doctorate in 1952. His dissertation concerned the place of Hamlet in German Literature. His university studies concluded, in 1953 he embarked on ten years as an enthusiastic and creative secondary school teacher, first for one year in Coburg and then, as the economic and political divisions between East and West Germany increasingly came to be matched by physical divisions, back in his birth-city of Nuremberg. During that decade he also achieved literary success as the author of a number of school text books with a focus on German and world literature. By 2012 his \"Kleine Geschichte der modernen Weltliteratur in Problemkreisen\" (\"loosely, \"Little history of modern world literature in difficulties\"\") had reached a remarkable nine editions. \n\nIn 1964 Glaser switched his teaching job for a political position in Nuremberg as schools and culture consultant. He arrived in post with his ideas well developed. Shortly before his appointment, encouraged by , he became a member of the Social Democratic Party (\"Sozialdemokratische Partei Deutschlands\" / SPD), and during the 26 years that he remained in post he applied his considerable energies to promoting a \"Culture of civil rights\" (\"Bürgerrecht Kultur\") in democratic society. In order to give the Nuremberg adolescents under his supervision more autonomy, in 1973 he co-founded a self-administering \"Youth Centre\", the so-called , which inspired numerous other similar projects in other West German cities. The initiative was not without its own risks, however. After the infamous 1981 Glaser stood by the 140 young people who had been besieged in the by the police and then, when they emerged, taken away and locked up, including 21 minors. Minister-President Franz Josef Strauss was personally involved in what turned out to have been a pre-planned power demonstration on behalf of the police and the Bavarian state government. The incident became highly politicised: although 78 of the 141 who had been locked up faced charges, in the end all charges were dropped. Subsequently those who had been arrested were awarded damages.\n\nGlaser became chairman of the Deutscher Werkbund (\"loosely, \"German Association of Craftsmen\"\") and became a lecturer and honorary professor in communication sciences at the prestigious (and slightly misleading named) Technical University of Berlin. He also taught on the specialist \"Culture and Management\" (\"Kultur und Management\") at . After 1990 there were also guest professorships both in Germany and abroad.\n\n"}
{"id": "46188299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46188299", "title": "History of propaganda", "text": "History of propaganda\n\nPropaganda is information that is not impartial and used primarily to influence an audience and further an agenda, often by presenting facts selectively (perhaps lying by omission) to encourage a particular synthesis, or using loaded messages to produce an emotional rather than a rational response to the information presented. The term propaganda has acquired a strongly negative connotation by association with its most manipulative and jingoistic examples.\n\nPrimitive forms of propaganda have been a human activity as far back as reliable recorded evidence exists. The Behistun Inscription (c. 515 BC) detailing the rise of Darius I to the Persian throne is viewed by most historians as an early example of propaganda. The \"Arthashastra\" written by Chanakya (c. 350 – 283 BC), a professor of political science at Takshashila University and a prime minister of the Maurya Empire in ancient India, discusses propaganda in detail, such as how to spread propaganda and how to apply it in warfare. His student Chandragupta Maurya (c. 340 – 293 BC), founder of the Maurya Empire, employed these methods during his rise to power. The writings of Romans such as Livy (c. 59 BC – 17 AD) are considered masterpieces of pro-Roman propaganda. The most well-known originator of Roman historiography was Quintus Fabius Pictor (3rd century BCE). His style of writing history defending the Roman state actions and using propaganda heavily eventually became a defining characteristic of Roman historiography. Another example of early propaganda is the 12th-century work, \"The War of the Irish with the Foreigners\", written by the Dál gCais to portray themselves as legitimate rulers of Ireland.\n\nPropaganda during the Reformation, helped by the spread of the printing press throughout Europe, and in particular within Germany, caused new ideas, thoughts, and doctrine to be made available to the public in ways that had never been seen before the 16th century. The printing press was invented in approximately 1450 and quickly spread to other major cities around Europe; by the time the Reformation was underway in 1517 there were printing centres in over 200 of the major European cities. These centres became the primary producers of both Reformation works by the Protestant Reformers and anti-Reformation works put forth by the Roman Catholics.\n\nDuring the era of the American Revolution, the American colonies had a flourishing network of newspapers and printers who specialized in the topic on behalf of the Patriots (and to a lesser extent on behalf of the Loyalists). The most famous single publication was \"Common Sense\", a 1776 pamphlet by Tom Paine that played a major role in articulating the demand for independence. On occasion, outright disinformation was used, as when Benjamin Franklin circulated false stories of atrocities committed by the Seneca Indians in league with the British.\n\nIn the French Revolution and the Napoleonic wars both sides made heavy use of it during military campaigns with media literate.\n\nPropaganda as generally understood, is a modern phenomenon that emerged from the creation of literate and politically active societies informed by a mass media, where governments increasingly saw the necessity for swaying public opinion in favour of its policies. \nDuring the French Revolutionary and Napoleonic era Propaganda was among the first of the Modern Period.\nA notable example was perhaps during the Indian Rebellion of 1857, where Indian sepoys rebelled against the British East India Company's rule in India. Incidents of rape committed by Indian rebels against English women or girls were exaggerated to great effect by the British media to justify continued British colonialism in the Indian subcontinent. At the time, British newspapers had printed various accounts about English women and girls being raped by the Indian rebels. It was later found that some of these accounts were false stories created to perpetuate the common stereotypes of the native people of India as savages who need to be civilised by British colonialists, a mission sometimes known as \"The White Man's Burden\". One such account published by \"The Times\", regarding an incident where 48 English girls as young as 10–14 were supposedly raped by the Indian rebels in Delhi, was criticised as a false propaganda story by Karl Marx, who pointed out that the story was reported by a clergyman in Bangalore, far from the events of the rebellion.\n\nGabriel Tarde's \"Laws of Imitation\" (1890) and Gustave Le Bon's \"The Crowd: A Study of the Popular Mind\" (1897) were two of the first codifications of propaganda techniques, which influenced many writers afterward, including Sigmund Freud. Hitler's \"Mein Kampf\" is heavily influenced by Le Bon's theories.\n\nThe first large-scale and organised propagation of government propaganda was occasioned by the outbreak of war in 1914. In the war's initial stages, propaganda output was greatly increased by the British and German governments, to persuade their populace in the justness of their cause, to encourage voluntary recruitment, and above all to demonise the enemy. Heavy use was made of posters, as well as the new medium of film.\n\nAt the start of the war, Germany expanded its unofficial propaganda machinery, establishing the Central Office for Foreign Services, which among other duties was tasked with propaganda distribution to neutral nations, persuading them to either side with Germany or to maintain their stance of neutrality. After the declaration of war, Britain immediately cut the undersea cables that connected Germany to the outside world, thereby cutting off a major propaganda outlet. The Germans relied instead on the powerful wireless Nauen Transmitter Station to broadcast pro-German news reports to the world. Among other techniques used to keep up the morale of the troops, mobile cinemas were regularly dispatched to the front line for the entertainment of the troops. Newsreels would portray current events with a pro-German slant. German propaganda techniques heavily relied on emphasising the mythological and martial nature of the Germanic 'Volk' and the inevitability of its triumph.\n\nGermany published several newspapers and magazines for the occupied areas. The 'Gazette des Ardennes,' was designed for French readers in Belgium and France, Francophone prisoners of war, and generally as a propaganda vehicle in neutral and even enemy countries. Editor Fritz H. Schnitzer had a relatively free hand, and he tried to enhance his credibility by factual information. He realized until the closing days of the war that it was necessary to produce an increasingly optimistic report to hide the weakening position of the Central Powers in the summer and fall of 1918.\n\nThe British made a careful analysis of the German propaganda campaigns. In terms of content, the official propaganda had multiple themes:\nA) It proclaimed that German victory was a certainty.\nB) It explained Germany was fighting a war of defence.\nC) Enemy atrocities in were denounced, including its starvation plan for German civilians, use of dum dum bullets, and the use of black soldiers.\nD) The rhetoric exalted Germany's historic mission to promote high culture and true civilization, celebrating the slogan \"work, order, duty\" over the enemy's \"liberty, equality, fraternity.\"\nE). It explained that German victory would benefit all of mankind, freeing the seas for all nations, and enabling the downtrodden colonies of the Allies to liberate themselves.\nF). Germany needed to land to expand, as an outlet for its surplus population, talent, organizing ability, financial capital, and manufacturing output.\nG). The riches of the world, especially raw materials, controlled by the British and the French, must be disgorged by the enemy to the benefit of Germany.\nThe propaganda designed for the home market included points A through G. Propaganda directed at neutral opinion downplayed D and F, and left out theme G. The Germans realized they needed to appeal to vocal supporters in countries allied with the Central Powers, especially Austria, Bulgaria, and Turkey. They put special emphasis on the Muslim world, using Turkey as their leverage. Much of the propaganda was oriented toward minorities in the Allied countries, as they tried to stir up Muslims in India and Russia and ethnic groups in Eastern Europe, especially the Poles. In prioritizing the goal of destabilizing the enemy, Berlin realized that it was often counterproductive to promote German glories. Other elements that were hostile or indifferent to Germany, especially among the far left and the Muslims, could best be reached through their own spokesman. Hence large sums—upwards of nine tons of gold—were given the Bolsheviks to spread their own anti-tsarist propaganda.\n\nBritish propaganda during World War I — called \"an impressive exercise in improvisation\" — was hastily expanded at the beginning of the war and was rapidly brought under government control as the War Propaganda Bureau (Wellington House), under the overall leadership of journalist Charles Masterman. The Bureau began its propaganda campaign on 2 September 1914 when Masterman invited 25 leading British authors to Wellington House to discuss ways of best promoting Britain's interests during the war. Those who attended included William Archer, Arthur Conan Doyle, Arnold Bennett, John Masefield, Ford Madox Ford, G. K. Chesterton, Henry Newbolt, John Galsworthy, Thomas Hardy, Rudyard Kipling, Gilbert Parker, G. M. Trevelyan and H. G. Wells. Several of the writers agreed to write pamphlets and books that would promote the government's point of view; these were printed and published by such well-known publishers as Hodder & Stoughton, Methuen, Oxford University Press, John Murray, Macmillan and Thomas Nelson.\nAfter January 1916 the Bureau's activities were subsumed under the office of the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. In May 1916 Masterman began recruiting artists, including Muirhead Bone, Francis Dodd, Eric Kennington and others, to paint pictures of the war in France and the home front. In early 1918 it was decided that a senior government figure should take over responsibility for propaganda and on 4 March Lord Beaverbrook, owner of the \"Daily Express\" newspaper, was made Minister of Information. The British effort soon far surpassed the German in its quality and ability to sway the public mood both at home and abroad.\n\nA variety of propaganda methods were used by the British during the war, with emphasis on the need for credibility. Written forms of distributed propaganda included books, pamphlets, official publications, ministerial speeches or royal messages. They were targeted at influential individuals, such as journalists and politicians, rather than a mass audience. Pamphlets were distributed to various foreign countries, primarily the United States: - these pamphlets were academic in tone and factual in nature, distributed through unofficial channels. By 1916, 7 million copies had been circulated by Wellington House in various languages.\n\nBritish propagandists also sought to influence the foreign press, by providing it with information through the Neutral Press Committee and the Foreign Office. Special telegraph agencies were established in various European cities, including Bucharest, Bilbao and Amsterdam, in order to facilitate the spread of information.\n\nRecruitment was a central theme of domestic propaganda until the introduction of conscription in January 1916. The most common theme for recruitment posters was patriotism, which evolved into appeals for people to do their 'fair share'. Among the most famous of the posters used in the British Army recruitment campaign of World War I were the \"Lord Kitchener Wants You\" posters, which depicted Secretary of State for War Lord Kitchener above the words \"WANTS YOU\".\n\nOne major propaganda avenue was the use of atrocity stories. These aimed to mobilise hatred of the German enemy by spreading details of their atrocities, real or alleged, and was used extensively by Britain, reaching a peak in 1915, with much of the atrocities related to Germany's invasion of Belgium. One of the first significant publications to be produced by the Bureau was the \"Report on Alleged German Outrages\", in early 1915. This pamphlet documented atrocities both actual and alleged committed by the German army against Belgian civilians. Other atrocity stories included the fate of the nurse Edith Cavell and the Sinking of the RMS Lusitania. These had a significant impact both in Britain and in America, making front-page headlines in major newspapers.\n\nBefore the United States declared war in 1917, it established a propaganda department along similar lines. Propaganda experts Walter Lippmann and Edward Bernays participated in the Creel Commission, which was to sway popular opinion to support the government policies . The Creel Committee provided themes for speeches by \"four-minute men\" at public functions, and also encouraged censorship of the American press. Starting after World War I, propaganda had a growing negative connotation. This was due in part to the 1920 book \"How We Advertised America: the First Telling of the Amazing Story of the Committee on Public Information that Carried the Gospel of Americanism to Every Corner of the Globe\" in which the impact of the Creel Committee, and the power of propaganda, was over-emphasised. The Committee was so unpopular that after the war, Congress closed it down without providing funding to organise and archive its papers.\n\nThe war propaganda campaign of the Creel Committee \"produced within six months such an intense anti-German hysteria as to permanently impress American business (and Adolf Hitler, among others) with the potential of large-scale propaganda to control public opinion.\"\n\nThe \"Protocols of the Elders of Zion\", a fraudulent anti-Semitic conspiracy text, was first printed in a Black Hundreds newspaper shortly before the Revolution of 1905. It became widely circulated as an explanation for the uprisings. As the 1917 October Revolution unfolded, causing White movement-affiliated Russians to flee to the West, \" The Protocols\" was carried along with them and assumed a new purpose. Until then, \"The Protocols\" had remained obscure; it now became an instrument for blaming Jews for the Russian Revolution. It was a directly political weapon, used against the Bolsheviks who were depicted as overwhelmingly Jewish, allegedly executing the Judeo-Bolshevist \"plan\" embodied in \"The Protocols\". The purpose was to discredit communism, prevent the West from recognizing the Soviet Union, and bring about the downfall of Vladimir Lenin's regime.\n\nRussian revolutionaries of the 19th and 20th centuries distinguished two different aspects covered by the English term \"propaganda\". Their terminology included two terms: (agitatsiya), or \"agitation\", and , or \"propaganda\", see agitprop (agitprop is not, however, limited to the Soviet Union, as it was considered, before the October Revolution, to be one of the fundamental activities of any Marxist activist; this importance of agit-prop in Marxist theory may also be observed today in Trotskyist circles, who insist on the importance of leaflet distribution).\n\nSoviet \"propaganda\" meant dissemination of revolutionary ideas, teachings of Marxism, and theoretical and practical knowledge of Marxist economics, while \"agitation\" meant forming favourable public opinion and stirring up political unrest. These activities did not carry negative connotations (as they usually do in English) and were encouraged. Expanding dimensions of state propaganda, the Bolsheviks actively used transportation such as trains, aircraft and other means.\n\nJoseph Stalin's regime built the largest fixed-wing aircraft of the 1930s, Tupolev ANT-20, exclusively for this purpose. Named after the famous Soviet writer Maxim Gorky who had recently returned from fascist Italy, it was equipped with a powerful radio set called \"Voice from the sky\", printing and leaflet-dropping machinery, radio stations, photographic laboratory, film projector with sound for showing movies in flight, library, etc. The aircraft could be disassembled and transported by railroad if needed. The giant aircraft set a number of world records.\n\nBernays, a nephew of Freud, who wrote the book Propaganda early in the 20th century, later coined the terms \"group mind\" and \"engineering consent\", important concepts in practical propaganda work. He wrote:\nThe conscious and intelligent manipulation of the organised habits and opinions of the masses is an important element in democratic society. Those who manipulate this unseen mechanism of society constitute an invisible government which is the true ruling power of our country.<br>\nWe are governed, our minds are molded, our tastes formed, our ideas suggested, largely by men we have never heard of. This is a logical result of the way in which our democratic society is organised. Vast numbers of human beings must cooperate in this manner if they are to live together as a smoothly functioning society.The file Century of the Self by Adam Curtis documents the immense influence of these ideas on public relations and politics throughout the last century.\n\nLippmann, in \"Public Opinion\" (1922) also worked on the subject, as well as the American advertising pioneer and founder of the field of public relations Edward Bernays, a nephew of Freud, who wrote the book Propaganda early in the 20th century.\n\nAccording to Alex Carey, one distinctive feature of the 20th century was \"the professionalising and institutionalising of propaganda\", as it became an increasingly prominent, sophisticated, and self-conscious tactic of both government and business.\n\nAfter the defeat of Germany in the First World War, military officials such as Erich Ludendorff suggested that British propaganda had been instrumental in their defeat. Adolf Hitler came to echo this view, believing that it had been a primary cause of the collapse of morale and the revolts in the German home front and Navy in 1918 (see also: Dolchstoßlegende). Later, the Nazis adapted many British propaganda techniques during their time in power. Most propaganda in Germany was produced by the Ministry of Public Enlightenment and Propaganda. Joseph Goebbels was placed in charge of this ministry shortly after Hitler took power in 1933. All journalists, writers and artists were required to register with one of the Ministry's subordinate chambers for the press, fine arts, music, theatre, film, literature or radio.\n\nHitler met nearly every day with Goebbels to discuss the news, and Goebbels would obtain Hitler's thoughts on the subject. Goebbels then met with senior Ministry officials to pass down the official Party line on world events. Broadcasters and journalists required prior approval before their works were disseminated. Along with posters, the Nazis produced a number of films and books to spread their beliefs.\n\nOn 13 March 1933, The Third Reich established a Ministry of Propaganda, appointing Joseph Goebbels as its Minister. Goals were to establish external enemies (countries that allegedly inflicted the Treaty of Versailles on Germany - by territorial claims and ethnocentrism) and internal enemies, such as Jews, Romani, homosexuals, Bolsheviks and topics like degenerate art.\n\nA major political and ideological cornerstone of Nazi policy was the unification of all ethnic Germans living outside of the Reich's borders under one Greater Germany (e.g. Austria and Czechoslovakia). In \"Mein Kampf\", Hitler made a direct remark to those outside of Germany. He stated that pain and misery were being forced upon ethnic Germans outside of Germany, and that they dream of common fatherland. He finished by stating they needed to fight for one's nationality. Throughout \"Mein Kampf\", he pushed Germans worldwide to make the struggle for political power and independence their main focus. Nazi propaganda used the \"Heim ins Reich\" policy for this, which began in 1938.\n\nFor months prior to the beginning of World War II in 1939, German newspapers and leaders had carried out a national and international propaganda campaign accusing Polish authorities of organizing or tolerating violent ethnic cleansing of ethnic Germans living in Poland. On 22 August, Adolf Hitler told his generals:\n\nThe main part of this propaganda campaign was the false flag project, Operation Himmler, which was designed to create the appearance of Polish aggression against Germany, which was subsequently used to justify the invasion of Poland.\n\nIn 1935, racist laws in Nazi Germany were introduced known as the Nuremberg Laws, the laws forbade non-Aryans and political opponents of the Nazis from the civil-service and any sexual relations and marriage between people classified as \"Aryan\" and \"non-Aryan\" (Jews, Gypsies, blacks) was prohibited as \"Rassenschande\" or \"race defilement\". The Nuremberg Laws were based on notions of racial purity and sought to preserve the Aryan race, who were at the top of the Nazi racial hierarchy and were said to be the ubermenschen \"herrenvolk\" (master race), and to teach the German nation to view the Jews as subhumans.\n\nHitler and Nazi propagandists played on the anti-Semitism and resentment present in Germany. The Jews were blamed for things such as robbing the German people of their hard work while themselves avoiding physical labour. \"Der Stürmer\", a Nazi propaganda newspaper, told Germans that Jews kidnapped small children before Passover because \"Jews need the blood of a Christian child, maybe, to mix in with their Matzah.\" Posters, films, cartoons, and fliers were seen throughout Germany which attacked the Jewish community. One of the most infamous such films was The Eternal Jew directed by Fritz Hippler.\n\nSoon after the takeover of power in 1933, Nazi concentration camps were established for political opponents. The first people that were sent to the camps were Communists. They were sent because of their ties with the Soviet Union and because Nazism greatly opposed Communism.\n\nFrance, a democratic society in the 1930s, but the people were kept in the dark about critical issues of foreign policy. The government tightly controlled all of the media to promulgate propaganda to support the government's foreign policy of appeasement to the aggressions of Italy and especially Nazi Germany. There were 253 daily newspapers, all owned separately. The five major national papers based in Paris were all under the control of special interests, especially right-wing political and business interests that supported appeasement. They were all venal, taking large secret subsidies to promote the policies of various special interests. Many leading journalists were secretly on the government payroll. The regional and local newspapers were heavily dependent on government advertising and published news and editorials to suit Paris. Most of the international news was distributed through the Havas agency, which was largely controlled by the government. Radio was a potentially powerful new medium, but France was quite laggard in consumer ownership of radio sets, and the government impose very strict controls. After 1938, stations were allowed only three brief daily bulletins, of seven minutes each, to cover all the day's news. The Prime Minister's office closely supervised the news items that were to be broadcast. Newsreels were tightly censored; they were told to feature none controversial but glamorous entertainers, film premieres, sporting events, high-fashion, new automobiles, an official ceremonies. Motion pictures likely likewise were censored, and were encouraged to reinforce stereotypes to the effect that the French were always lovers of liberty and justice, contending against cruel and barbarous Germans. The government-subsidized films that glorified military virtues and the French Empire. The goal was to tranquilize public opinion, to give it little or nothing to work with, so as not to interfere with the policies of the national government. When serious crises emerged such as the Munich crisis of 1938, people were puzzled and mystified by what was going on. When war came in 1939, Frenchman had little understanding of the issues, and little correct information. They suspiciously distrusted the government, with the result that French morale in the face of the war with Germany was badly prepared.\n\nWorld War II saw continued use of propaganda as a weapon of war, building on the experience of WW1, both by Hitler's propagandist Joseph Goebbels and the British Political Warfare Executive, as well as the United States Office of War Information.\n\nWithin the US, the British Security Coordination activities worked to counter pro-German sentiment, and isolationist opinion.\n\nThe British broadcast black propaganda through fake German-language radio stations to Europe. It was disguised to sound like legitimate German radio broadcasts, but it had a negative twist designed to undermine German morale. The Germans undertook a similar program. The Reich Ministry of Public Enlightenment and Propaganda used English language broadcasts - such as \"Germany Calling\" - broadcast to the UK. Presenter William Joyce - a British fascist - gained the nickname \"Lord Haw-Haw\" from the popular press.\n\nThe West and the Soviet Union both used propaganda extensively during the Cold War. Both sides used film, television, and radio programming to influence their own citizens, each other, and Third World nations. The United States Information Agency operated the Voice of America as an official government station. Radio Free Europe and Radio Liberty, which were, in part, supported by the Central Intelligence Agency, provided grey propaganda in news and entertainment programs to Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union respectively. The Soviet Union's official government station, Radio Moscow, broadcast white propaganda, while Radio Peace and Freedom broadcast grey propaganda. Both sides also broadcast black propaganda programs in periods of special crises.\n\nIn 1948, the United Kingdom's Foreign Office created the IRD (Information Research Department), which took over from wartime and slightly post-war departments such as the Ministry of Information and dispensed propaganda via various media such as the BBC and publishing.\n\nIts main targets were in the Third World. However, it was also set out to \"be of use to\" British media and opinion formers. As well as supplying material to the BBC World Service, secret lists were compiled of approved journalists and trade unionists to whom material was offered, if not always accepted.\n\nPossibly its most notorious \"project\" was the joint operation with the CIA to set up \"Encounter\" magazine, edited by Stephen Spender from 1953 to 1966. Spender resigned after it emerged that the Congress for Cultural Freedom, which published the magazine, was being covertly funded by the CIA.\n\nThe ideological and border dispute between the Soviet Union and People's Republic of China resulted in a number of cross-border operations. One technique developed during this period was the \"backwards transmission,\" in which the radio program was recorded and played backwards over the air. (This was done so that messages meant to be received by the other government could be heard, while the average listener could not understand the content of the program).\n\nWhen describing life in capitalist countries, in the US in particular, propaganda focused on social issues such as poverty and anti-union action by the government. Workers in capitalist countries were portrayed as \"ideologically close\". Propaganda claimed rich people from the US derived their income from weapons manufacturing, and claimed that there was substantial racism or neo-fascism in the US.\n\nWhen describing life in Communist countries, western propaganda sought to depict an image of a citizenry held captive by governments that brainwash them. The West also created a fear of the East, by depicting an aggressive Soviet Union. In the Americas, Cuba served as a major source and a target of propaganda from both black and white stations operated by the CIA and Cuban exile groups. Radio Habana Cuba, in turn, broadcast original programming, relayed Radio Moscow, and broadcast \"The Voice of Vietnam\" as well as alleged confessions from the crew of the \"USS Pueblo\".\n\nGeorge Orwell's novels \"Animal Farm\" and \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" are virtual textbooks on the use of propaganda. Though not set in the Soviet Union, these books are about totalitarian regimes that constantly corrupt language for political purposes. These novels were, ironically, used for explicit propaganda. The CIA, for example, secretly commissioned an animated film adaptation of \"Animal Farm\" in the 1950s with small changes to the original story to suit its own needs.\n\nDuring the Cuban Revolution, in 1955 Fidel Castro stressed the importance of propaganda in his struggle both against Fulgencio Batista and the United States, saying, “Propaganda is the heart of our struggle. We must never abandon propaganda.”\n\nFrom the beginning of its involvement in Vietnam, the United States government engaged in covert psychological operations. Thomas Anthony Dooley III, a medical intelligence recruit, became the public face of Operation Passage to Freedom, a refugee program secretly designed by CIA officer Edward Lansdale. The refugee surge from North to South appeared spontaneous to the American public, but was partly engineered by Lansdale's hoax threats of dropping nuclear bombs on Hanoi. Although celebrated for independent humanitarian activities, after his death the public learned that Thomas Dooley had been recruited as an intelligence operative by the Central Intelligence Agency, and numerous descriptions of atrocities by the Viet Minh in his book \"Deliver Us From Evil\" had been fabricated. Dooley later did similar propaganda work in Laos. \nLansdale went on to run black propaganda operations out of Saigon in collaboration with dictator Ngo Diem. The CIA's forged Communist pamphlets were so convincing they even fooled some of the Viet Minh, and US journalist Joseph Alsop reported Lansdale's disinformation as fact. The agency also manipulated astrology reports in the North in order to negatively effect the morale of the population.\n\nPropaganda was used extensively by Communist forces in the Vietnam War as means of controlling people's opinions. Radio stations like \"Radio Hanoi\" were an integral part of North Vietnamese propaganda operations. Communist Vietnamese politician Mai Chi Tho, commenting on the use of propaganda, stated:\"Ho Chi Minh may have been an evil man; Nixon may have been a great man. The Americans may have had the just cause; we may not have had the just cause. But we won and the Americans were defeated because we convinced the people that Ho Chi Minh is the great man, that Nixon is a murderer and the Americans are the invaders... The key factor is how to control people and their opinions. Only Marxism–Leninism can do that.\"\n\nDuring the Yugoslav wars, propaganda was used as a military strategy by governments of Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and Croatia.\n\nPropaganda was used to incite fear and hatred, and particularly incite the Serb population against the other ethnicities (Bosniaks, Croats, Albanians and other non-Serbs). Serb media made a great effort in justifying, revising or denying mass war crimes committed by Serb forces during these wars.\n\nAccording to the ICTY verdicts against Serb political and military leaders, during the Bosnian war, the propaganda was a part of the Strategic Plan by Serb leadership, aimed at linking Serb-populated areas in Bosnia and Herzegovina together, gaining control over these areas and creating a sovereign Serb nation state, from which most non-Serbs would be permanently removed. The Serb leadership was aware that the Strategic Plan could only be implemented by the use of force and fear, thus by the commission of war crimes.\n\nCroats also used propaganda against Serbs throughout and against Bosniaks during the 1992-1994 Croat–Bosniak War, which was part of the larger Bosnian War. During Lašva Valley ethnic cleansing, Croat forces seized the television broadcasting stations (for example at Skradno) and created its own local radio and television to carry propaganda. They also seized the public institutions, raised the Croatian flag over public institution buildings and imposed the Croatian Dinar as the unit of currency. During this time, Busovača's Bosniaks were forced to sign an act of allegiance to the Croat authorities, fell victim to numerous attacks on shops and businesses and, gradually, left the area out of fear that they would be the victims of mass crimes. According to ICTY Trial Chambers, in \"Blaškić case,\" Croat authorities created a radio station in Kiseljak to broadcast nationalist propaganda. A similar pattern was applied in Mostar and Gornji Vakuf (where Croats created a radio station called \"Radio Uskoplje\"). Local propaganda efforts in parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina controlled by the Croats were supported by Croatian daily newspapers such as \"Večernji list\" and \"Croatian Radiotelevision\", especially by controversial reporters Dijana Čuljak and Smiljko Šagolj, who are still blamed by the families of Bosniak victims in \"Vranica case\" for inciting massacre of Bosnian POWs in Mostar when broadcasting a report about alleged terrorists arrested by Croats who victimised Croat civilians. The bodies of Bosnian POWs were later found in Goranci mass grave. \"Croatian Radiotelevision\" presented Croat attack on Mostar as a Bosnian Muslim attack on Croats in alliance with the Serbs. According to ICTY, in the early hours of May 9, 1993, the Croatian Defence Council (HVO) attacked Mostar using artillery, mortars, heavy weapons and small arms. The HVO controlled all roads leading into Mostar and international organisations were denied access. Radio Mostar announced that all Bosniaks should hang out a white flag from their windows. The HVO attack had been well prepared and planned.\n\nDuring the ICTY trials against Croat war leaders, many Croatian journalists participated as defence witnesses trying to relativise war crimes committed by Croatian troops against non-Croat civilians (Bosniaks in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbs in Croatia). During the trial against general Tihomir Blaškić (later convicted of war crimes), Ivica Mlivončić, Croatian columnist in \"Slobodna Dalmacija\", tried to defend general Blaškić presenting claims in his book \"Zločin s pečatom\" about alleged \"genocide against Croats\" (most of it unproven or false), which were considered by the Trial Chambers as irrelevant for the case. After the conviction, he continued to write in \"Slobodna Dalmacija\" against the ICTY presenting it \"as the court against Croats\", with chauvinistic claims that the ICTY cannot be unbiased because \"it is financed by Saudi Arabia (Muslims)\".\n\nAt the turn of the 20th century, films emerged as the new cultural agents, depicting events and showing foreign images to mass audiences in European and American cities. Politics and film began to intertwine with the reconstruction of the Boer War for a film audience and recordings of war in the Balkans. The new medium proved very useful for political and military interests when it came to reaching a broad segment of the population and creating consent or encouraging rejection of the real or imagined enemy. They also provided a forceful voice for independent critics of contemporary events.\n\nThe earliest known propaganda film was a series of short silent films made during the Spanish–American War in 1898 created by Vitagraph Studios.\n\nAt an epic 120 minute running time, the 1912 Romanian \"Independența României\" is the first fictional film in the world with a deliberate propagandistic message. Filmed with a budget that would not be reached by a Romanian movie until 1970 (\"Michael the Brave\", supported by the Romanian communist regime also for propagandistic purposes), the movie was meant to shift the perception of the Romanian public towards an acceptance of Romanian involvement into an expected Balkan conflict (the First Balkan War).\nAnother of the early fictional films to be used for propaganda was \"The Birth of a Nation\" (1915).\n\nFilm was still relatively new to urban audiences with the outbreak of hostilities in 1914. Governments’ use of film as propaganda reflected this. The British and Americans’ initial struggles in the official use of film led to eventual success in their use of the medium. The Germans were off to a faster start in recognising film's value as a tool of perpetuating pro-German sentiment in the US through The American Correspondent Film Company as well as on the front lines with their mobile cinemas, which showed feature films and newsreels.\n\nThough the Allied governments were slow to use film as a medium for conveying a desired position and set of beliefs, individuals, such as Charlie Chaplin were considerably more successful with \"The Bond\" and \"Zepped\".\n\nIn the years following the October Revolution of 1917, the Soviet government sponsored the Russian film industry with the purpose of making propaganda films. The development of Russian cinema in the 1920s by such filmmakers as Dziga Vertov and Sergei Eisenstein saw considerable progress in the use of the motion picture as a propaganda tool, yet it also served to develop the art of moviemaking. Eisenstein's films, in particular 1925's \"The Battleship Potemkin\", are seen as masterworks of the cinema, even as they glorify Eisenstein's Communist ideals. In depicting the 1905 Russian Revolution \"Potemkin\" sought to create a new history for Russia, one led and triumphed over by the formerly oppressed masses. Eisenstein was heavily influenced by the ideology of the 1917 Bolshevik revolution, which results in it providing better insight into the mindset of the later revolution than that which it depicted. Its dual purpose beyond forging a national Russian identity was to bring its revolutionary Communist message to the West. Its influence was feared in Germany to the extent that the government banned the film when it was released in the late 1920s. Another of Eisenstein's films, 1927's \"\", depicted the Bolshevik perspective on the October Revolution, culminating in the storming of the Winter Palace which provided Soviet viewers with the victory that the workers and peasants lacked in \"Battleship Potemkin\", ending with Lenin (as played by an unknown worker) declaring that the government is overthrown. Because no documentary material existed of the storming of the palace, Eistenstein's re-creation of the event has become the source material for historians and filmmakers, giving it further legitimacy as the accepted historical record, which illustrates its success as a propaganda film.\n\nBetween the Great Wars American films celebrated the bravery of the American soldiers while depicting war as an existential nightmare. Films such as \"The Big Parade\" depicted the horrors of trench warfare, the brutal destruction of villages, and the lack of provisions.\n\nMeanwhile, Nazi filmmakers produced highly emotional films about the suffering of the German minority in Czechoslovakia and Poland, which were crucial towards creating popular support for occupying the Sudetenland and attacking Poland. Films like the 1941 \"Heimkehr\" (Homecoming) depicted the plight of homesick ethnic Germans in Poland longing to return to the Reich which in turn set the psychological conditions for the real attack and acceptance of the German policy, \"Lebensraum\" (living space).\n\nThe 1930s and 1940s, which saw the rise of totalitarian states and the Second World War, are arguably the \"Golden Age of Propaganda\". Nazi control of the German film industry is the most extreme example of the use of film in the service of a fascist national program and, in 1933, Hitler created the Reich Ministry for People's Enlightenment and Propaganda and appointed the youthful Joseph Goebbels as its head. Fritz Hippler, producer of one of the most powerful propaganda films of the time, 1940's \"The Eternal Jew (Der ewige Jude)\", ran the film department under Goebbels. \"The Eternal Jew\" purported to be a documentary depicting the Jewish world, insinuating that the Jewish population consisted of avaricious barbarians putting on a front for civilized European society, remaining indifferent and unaffected by the war. During this time Leni Riefenstahl, a filmmaker working in Nazi Germany, created one of the best-known propaganda films, \"Triumph of the Will\", a film commissioned by Hitler to chronicle the 1934 Nazi Party rally in Nuremberg. Despite its controversial subject, the film is still recognized for its revolutionary approach to using music and cinematography. Another of Riefenstahl's films, 1938's \"Olympia\", was meant to prove that the Reich was a democratic and open society under Nazi rule. It had the perfect venue, the 1936 Berlin Olympics in which to showcase Adolf Hitler's Aryan ideals and prowess. One of the most notable shots is Hitler congratulating the African American Jesse Owens on his four gold medals, whose successes spoiled Hitler's wish to depict those of African descent as racially inferior. The film won a number of prestigious film awards but fell from grace, particularly in the United States when, in November 1938, the world learned of the program against the Jews. Riefenstahl's cinematic masterpiece, though temporarily effective propaganda, was unable to mitigate the growing awareness of the political realities in Nazi Germany.\n\nIn the United States during World War II, President Franklin D. Roosevelt recognized that the direct style of propaganda would not win over the American public. He assigned Lowell Mellett to the post of coordinator of government film. Although he had no jurisdiction over Hollywood films, he pressured the industry into helping the war effort. On 13 January 1945, Mellett stated in then-confidential testimony that he was assigned to persuade the film industry to \"insert morale-building and citizenry arousing themes in its films by all means possible.\" Luckily, many directors recognized the necessity (and likely the commercial success they would reap) of supporting the battle against fascism as public opinion lay with the war effort. One such filmmaker, Frank Capra, created a seven-part U.S. government-sponsored series of films to support the war effort entitled \"Why We Fight\" (1942-5). This series is considered a highlight of the propaganda film genre. Other propaganda movies, such as \"Thirty Seconds Over Tokyo\" (1944) and \"Casablanca\" (1942), have become so well loved by film viewers that they can stand on their own as dramatic films, apart from their original role as propaganda vehicles. Charlie Chaplin once again joined the U.S. war effort, creating \"The Great Dictator\" (1940), in which he played the Hitler-like character of 'Adenoid Hynkel' — this was preceded by some nine months by the short subject starring The Three Stooges, \"You Nazty Spy!\", as Moe Howard was the first American actor (as \"Moe Hailstone\") to spoof Hitler in film.\n\nAnimation became popular, especially for winning over youthful audiences. Walt Disney and Looney Tunes were among those that actively aided the U.S. war effort through their cartoons which provided training and instructions for viewers as well as a political commentary on the times. One of the most popular, \"Der Fuehrer's Face\" (1942) was a means of relieving the aggression against Hitler by making him a somewhat comical figure while showcasing the freedom America offered. Disney's \"Food Will Win the War\" (1942) attempts to make US citizens feel good by using US agriculture as a means of power. Also popular in the Soviet Union, the government produced such animated shorts as \"What Hitler Wants\", which depicts a devilish Hitler giving Russian factories to capitalists, enslaving and riding once-free Soviet citizens, but shows that the U.S.S.R. will be prepared to fight, paying the Germans back in triplicate, ready to beat the 'fascist pirates.'\n\nMany of the dramatic war films in the early 1940s in the United States were designed to create a patriotic mindset and convince viewers that sacrifices needed to be made to defeat \"the enemy.\" Despite fears that too much propaganda could diminish Hollywood's entertainment appeal, reducing its targeted audience and decreasing profits, military enlistment increased and morale was considered to be higher, in part attributed to America's innovative propaganda. One of the conventions of the genre was to depict a racial and socioeconomic cross-section of the United States, either a platoon on the front lines or soldiers training on a base, which come together to fight for the good of the country. In Italy, at the same time, film directors like Roberto Rossellini produced propaganda films for similar purposes.\n\nSimilar to Nazi Germany, the U.S.S.R. prepared its citizens for war by releasing dramas, such as Sergei Eisenstein's iconic \"Alexander Nevsky\". The U.S.S.R also screened films depicting partisan activity and the suffering inflicted by the Nazis, such as \"Girl No. 217\", which showed a Russian girl enslaved by an inhumane German family. Films were shown on propaganda trains while newsreels were screened in subway stations to reach those who were unable to pay to see films in the theater.\n\nPsychological combat was in fashion during the Cold War, and was used heavily by both sides.\n\nWhen describing life in Communist countries, western propaganda sought to depict an image of a brainwashed citizenry which was then held captive by their government. The CIA's Office of Policy Coordination adapted George Orwell's \"Animal Farm\" into an animated movie in 1954 that was released in England. In 1951, the American Federation of Labor disseminated a map,entitled \"'Gulag'--Slavery, Inc.,\" of the Soviet Union showing the locations of 175 forced labor camps administered by the Gulag. It was widely reprinted across the United States and internationally.\n\n\"Red Dawn\" (1984) was a commercial Hollywood film that depicts an alternate 1980s in which the United States is invaded by the Soviet Union, Cuba, Nicaragua, and other Latin American allies of the U.S.S.R. and a group of small-town high school students engage in guerrilla warfare in their resistance of the occupation, eventually beating the communists.\n\n\"Pork Chop Hill\" (1959) was the most notable 1950s American anti-war propaganda piece about the Korean war. Milestone was known for his previous anti-war films, including 1930's \"All Quiet on the Western Front\" and \"Shangganling\" (The Battle of Sangkumryung Ridge or Triangle Hill; 1956), which was the most influential film on the Chinese in that era. Both \"Pork Chop Hill\" and \"Shangganling\" depict a single battle in which a small dedicated unit defends a small holdout with very little hope of reprieve. Like all propaganda the importance of the film is not the battle itself but the outstanding characteristics of such individuals who would commit such acts of patriotism for their home and country.\n\nOver 100 years since its creation, film continues to resonate with viewers and helps influence or reinforce a particular viewpoint. Following the 9/11 attacks, many Americans were split on the success of the government's response and the ensuing war in Afghanistan and Iraq. Similar to the Vietnam War, filmmakers expressed their view of the attacks and feelings about the war through films, most notably, \"Fahrenheit 9/11\" (2004). The film sparked debate across the country, presenting mixed assessments on the role of the U.S. government and its response along with the controversy that normally arises when depicting recent, traumatic events. Director Michael Moore omits footage of the planes striking the Twin Towers, cutting directly to the aftermath and destruction. Alan Petersen's \"Fahrenhype 9/11\" was released in response to \"Fahrenheit 9/11\"'s success in theaters. Petersen called \"Fahrenheit 9/11\" \"the Road Runner of manipulation...removing all avenues of thought through over-determination...leaving no room for the viewer's own judgment.\" It received considerably less press and screentime than Moore's controversial piece.\n\nAyman al-Zawahiri stated that “We are in a media battle for the hearts and minds of our \"umma\" [community] of Muslims.” Towards winning the hearts and minds of the MENA region, Al-Qaeda and its affiliates have produced propaganda films and documentaries depicting jihadist attacks, last will and testament videos, training, and interviews, all meant to boost morale among supporters. Al-Qaeda established a Media Committee early in its inception to handle traditional Western and Arab media as well as create an online media presence, which was established through the multi-media company as-Sahab in 2001. The company, which produces documentary-like films and operational videos for Afghanistan is known for its technological sophistication, cinematic effects, and their efforts to reach the west with translations and subtitling. Its operational videos were serialised in \"Pyre for Americans in Khorasan\" [Afghanistan]. Other productions in North Africa include \"Apostate in Hell\", a Somali film produced by al-Fajr Media Centre includes interviews with Somali jihadists, training of fighters, preparation for an attack, and actual operations. It along with many other al-Qaeda videos is distributed by Arabic jihadist websites as that community relies on the Internet to a high degree to disseminate information to followers.\n\nElements of propaganda films can also be incorporated into films that have messages that seek to implement positive change within society. However, what one generation may see as positive, later generations may experience as negative.\n\nAs mentioned previously, Walt Disney's \"Food Will Win the War\" (1942) attempts to make US citizens feel good by using US agriculture as a means of power. In 1943, the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) introduced its \"Basic 7\" nutrition guide (a precursor to the food pyramid). In the same year, the United States Office of War Information released \"Food for Fighters\" about the importance of nutrition in wartime. Between the 1940s and 1970s the Green Revolution increased agriculture production around the world which led to further increases in farm size and a reduction in the number of farms. Advances in fertilizers, herbicides, insecticides, fungicides, antibiotics, and growth hormones, reduced crop wastage due to weeds, insects, and diseases at the expense of health and safety from agricultural pollution. \"Good Eating Habits\" (1951) by Coronet Films is a drama focusing on gluttony and \"hidden hunger,\" where well-nourished people eat poorly and malnourish themselves. \"Miracles From Agriculture\" (1960) from the USDA presents then supermarkets as the showplaces of agriculture, discussing methods of improvement in the growing, handling, processing, and shipping of food products and the cooperative assistance offered by agricultural and food-processing research centres; the film also hypothesises that a nation grows according to the productivity of its agriculture.\n\nSince the 1990s to the present, responses to mad-cow disease, genetically modified foods, flu epidemics in pigs and birds, and an increase in foodborne illness outbreaks, agricultural pollution, and Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations (CAFOs) have led people to question where their food comes from and what is actually in it. The use of antibiotics and hormones in cattle and birds, artificial food additives like artificial colors/flavors, artificial sweeteners like high-fructose corn syrup and aspartame, artificial preservatives, etc., prompted \"propaganda\" films like \"Super Size Me\" (2004), \"King Corn\" (2007), \"Food, Inc.\" (2008), \"Forks Over Knives\" (2011), and others to promote food awareness, organic farming and eating local organic food, reducing and eliminating pesticides, herbicides, fungicides, and synthetic fertilisers, and adopting a vegan and/or raw food diet.\n\nHealth and medical propaganda films include \"The Pace That Kills\" (1935, cocaine), \"The Terrible Truth\" (1951, Sid Davis, anti-marijuana/heroine), \"Case Study\" series by Lockheed Aircraft Corporation (1969, amphetamines, barbiturates, heroine, LSD), \"Hoxsey: Quacks Who Cure Cancer\" (1988) about the Hoxsey Therapy, \"The Beautiful Truth\" (2008) about the Gerson method for treating cancer, the anti-vaccine \"The Greater Good\", \"Burzynski The Movie: Cancer Is Serious Business\" (2010), and Michael Moore's \"Sicko\" (2007) about the health care industry.\n\nOther propaganda film topics include Cannabis and hemp, \"Are You Popular?\" (1947, Coronet Films, popularity), \"The Spirit of '43\" (1943, Disney, income taxes) with Donald Duck, \"Boys Beware\" (1961, anti-homosexuality), \"Perversion for Profit\" (1965, anti-pornography), \"The Secret\" (2006), a self-help film about the metaphysical concept of the law of attraction, \"\" (2008) about intelligent design, Silent Contest (2013) a military propaganda film produced by the People's Liberation Army.\n\nFake news websites have been used to disseminate hoaxes, propaganda, and disinformation — using social media to drive web traffic and amplify their effect.\n\nThe ease of data collection emerging from the IT revolution has been suggested to have created a novel form of workplace propaganda. A lack of control on the acquired data's use has led to the widespread implementation of workplace propaganda created much more locally by managers in small and large companies, hospitals, colleges and Universities etc. The author highlights the transition of propagandist coming from large, often national producers to small scale production. The same article also notes a departure from the traditional methodology of propagandists i.e., the use of emotionally provocative imagery to distort facts. Data driven propaganda is suggested to use 'distorted data' to overrule emotion. For example, by providing rationales for ideologically driven pay cuts etc.\n\nPropaganda is used by the Communist Party of China to sway public and international opinion in favour of its policies. Domestically, this includes censorship of proscribed views and an active cultivation of views that favour the government. Propaganda is considered central to the operation of the Chinese government. The term in general use in China, \"xuanchuan\" (宣傳 \"propaganda; publicity\") can have either a neutral connotation in official government contexts or a pejorative connotation in informal contexts. Some \"xuanchuan\" collocations usually refer to \"propaganda\" (e.g., \"xuānchuánzhàn\" 宣传战 \"propaganda war\"), others to \"publicity\" (\"xuānchuán méijiè\" 宣傳媒介 \"mass media; means of publicity\"), and still others are ambiguous (\"xuānchuányuán\" 宣传员 \"propagandist; publicist\").\n\nAspects of propaganda can be traced back to the earliest periods of Chinese history, but propaganda has been most effective in the twentieth century owing to mass media and an authoritarian government. China in the era of Mao Zedong is known for its constant use of mass campaigns to legitimise the state and the policies of leaders. It was the first Chinese government to successfully make use of modern mass propaganda techniques, adapting them to the needs of a country which had a largely rural and illiterate population. In poor developing countries, China spreads propaganda through methods such as opening Confucius Institutes, and providing training programs in China for foreign officials and students.\n\nAccording to Anne-Marie Brady, the Foreign Ministry first set up a system of designated officials to give information in times of crisis in 1983, and greatly expanded the system to lower levels in the mid-1990s. China's spin had been directed only at foreigners, but in the 1990s leaders realised that managing public crises was useful for domestic politics; this included setting up provincial level \"News Coordinator Groups,\" and inviting foreign PR firms to give seminars.\n\nBrady writes that Chinese foreign propaganda officials took cues from the Blair government's spin doctoring during the mad cow disease crisis of 2000–2001, and the Bush government's use of the U.S. media after the terrorist attacks of 11 September 2001. According to her, the Blair model allows for a certain amount of negative coverage to be shown during a crisis, which is believed to help release some of the \"social tension\" surrounding it. She believes information managers in China used this approach during coal mining disasters of 2005.\n\nAccording to Brady, trained official spokespeople are now available on call in every central government ministry, as well as in local governments, to deal with emerging crises; these spin doctors are coordinated and trained by the Office of Foreign Propaganda/State Council Information Office.\n\nDuring the July 2009 Ürümqi riots, Communist Party officials moved swiftly in a public relations campaign. According to Newsweek, Party officials felt that the recent riots risked tarnishing China's global image, and underwent a public relations program involving quickly getting out the government's official version of the events, as well as transporting foreign journalists to riot affected areas. The growth in new technologies, such as email and SMS, forced the CCP's hand into taking up spin.\n\nInstead of attempting a media blackout as with the 2008 Tibetan unrest, the Party has adopted a series of more advanced techniques to influence the information leaving China. The day after violence in Ürümqi, the State Council Information Office set up a Xinjiang Information Office in Ürümqi to assist foreign reporters. It invited foreign media to Xinjiang to tour the riot zones, visit hospitals, and look at the aftermath themselves. Journalists were also given CDs with photos and TV clips. \"They try to control the foreign journalists as much as possible by using this more sophisticated PR work rather than ban[ning] them,\" according to Professor Xiao Qiang, quoted by Newsweek.\n\nDrug cartels have been engaged in propaganda and psychological campaigns to influence their rivals and those within their area of influence. They use banners and \"narcomantas\" to threaten their rivals. Some cartels hand out pamphlets and leaflets to conduct public relation campaigns. They have been able to control the information environment by threatening journalists, bloggers and others who speak out against them. They have elaborate recruitment strategies targeting young adults to join their cartel groups. They have successfully branded the word \"narco\", and the word has become part of Mexican culture. There is music, television shows, literature, beverages, food and architecture that all have been branded \"narco\".\n\nEvery year, a state-owned publishing house releases several cartoons (called \"geurim-chaek\" in North Korea), many of which are smuggled across the Chinese border and, sometimes, end up in university libraries in the United States. The books are designed to instill the \"Juche\" philosophy of Kim Il-sung (the \"father\" of North Korea)—radical self-reliance of the state. The plots mostly feature scheming capitalists from the United States and Japan who create dilemmas for naïve North Korean characters.\n\nDPRK textbooks claim that US missionaries came to the Korean Peninsula and committed barbarous acts against Korean children, including injecting dangerous liquids into the children and writing the word \"THIEF\" on the forehead of any child who stole an apple for missionary-owned orchards in Korea.\n\nThe National Youth Anti-Drug Media Campaign, originally established by the National Narcotics Leadership Act of 1988, but now conducted by the Office of National Drug Control Policy under the Drug-Free Media Campaign Act of 1998, is a domestic propaganda campaign designed to \"influence the attitudes of the public and the news media with respect to drug abuse\" and for \"reducing and preventing drug abuse among young people in the United States\". The Media Campaign cooperates with the Partnership for a Drug-Free America and other government and non-government organizations.\n\nIn early 2002, the U.S. Department of Defense launched an information operation, colloquially referred to as the Pentagon military analyst program. The goal of the operation is \"to spread the administrations's talking points on Iraq by briefing ... retired commanders for network and cable television appearances,\" where they have been presented as independent analysts.\nOn 22 May 2008, after this program was revealed in \"The New York Times\", the House passed an amendment that would make permanent a domestic propaganda ban that until now has been enacted annually in the military authorization bill.\n\nThe Shared values initiative was a public relations campaign that was intended to sell a \"new\" America to Muslims around the world by showing that American Muslims were living happily and freely, without persecution, in post-9/11 America. Funded by the United States Department of State, the campaign created a public relations front group known as Council of American Muslims for Understanding (CAMU). The campaign was divided in phases; the first of which consisted of five mini-documentaries for television, radio, and print with shared values messages for key Muslim countries.\n\nVladimir Putin's Russia has been reviving the Soviet-style Propaganda traditions. He stated in April 2005 on national television that the destruction of the USSR was \"the greatest geopolitical catastrophe of the twentieth century.\" In 2005 he established \"Russia Today\", now called RT, with English, Spanish and Arabic cable news channels financed by the government and designed to function as a \"soft power\" tool that will improve Russia's image abroad and counter the anti-Russian bias it sees in the Western media. RT's ruble budget in 2013-14 was equivalent to $300 million US dollars, compared to the $367 million budget of the BBC-World Service Group. RT has an American channel based in Washington, and in 2014 opened a British channel based in London. However the sharp decline in the ruble forced it to postpone channels in German and French. Meanwhile, China and Iran have followed the RT model in launching their own English language channels.\n\nJournalism expert Julia Ioffe argues, RT became an:\n\nCritics identify a cult of personality around Putin, known as Putinism. Cassiday and Johnson Argue that since taking power in 1999, \"Putin has inspired expressions of adulation the likes of which Russia has not seen since the days of Stalin. Tributes to his achievements and personal attributes have flooded every possible media.\" Ross says the cult emerged quickly by 2002 and emphasizes Putin's \"iron will, health, youth and decisiveness, tempered by popular support.\" Ross concludes, \"The development of a Putin mini cult of personality was based on a formidable personality at its heart.\"\n\nPutin's government shut down almost all independent television media, while allowing a few small critical newspapers and websites to exist. school textbooks were revised to teach students the exceptionality of Russian historical development and how Putin fits into the grand Russian traditions.\n\nPosters hanging everywhere often describe unity of the working class, farmers and soldiers under the leadership of the Communist Party of Vietnam and Ho Chi Minh. Residents and students have been studying ethics and ideology of Ho Chi Minh.\n\nIn the 2001 invasion of Afghanistan, psychological operations tactics were employed to demoralise the Taliban and to win the sympathies of the Afghan population. At least six EC-130E Commando Solo aircraft were used to jam local radio transmissions and transmit replacement propaganda messages. Leaflets were also dropped throughout Afghanistan, offering rewards for Osama bin Laden and other individuals, portraying Americans as friends of Afghanistan and emphasising various negative aspects of the Taliban. Another shows a picture of Mohammed Omar in a set of crosshairs with the words: \"We are watching.\"\n\nBoth the United States and Iraq employed propaganda during the Iraq War. The United States established campaigns towards the American people on the justifications of the war while using similar tactics to bring down Saddam Hussein's government in Iraq.\n\nThe Iraqi insurgency's plan was to gain as much support as possible by using violence as their propaganda tool. Inspired by the Vietcong's tactics, insurgents were using rapid movement to keep the coalition off-balance. By using low-technology strategies to convey their messages, they were able to gain support. Graffiti slogans were used on walls and houses praising the virtues of many group leaders while condemning the Iraqi government. Others used flyers, leaflets, articles and self-published newspapers and magazines to get the point across.\n\nInsurgents also produced CDs and DVDs and distributed them in communities that the Iraq and the US Government were trying to influence. The insurgents designed advertisements that cost a fraction of what the US was spending on their ads aimed at the same people in Iraq with much more success. In addition, a domestic Arabic language television station was established with the aim of informing the Iraqi public of alleged coalition propaganda efforts in the country.\n\nTo achieve their aim of a moderate, pro-western Iraq, US authorities were careful to avoid conflicts with Islamic culture that would produce passionate reactions from Iraqis, but differentiating between \"good\" and \"bad\" Islam has proved challenging for the US.\n\nThe US implemented black propaganda by creating false radio personalities that would disseminate pro-American information, but supposedly run by the supporters of Saddam Hussein. One radio station used was \"Radio Tikrit\". Another example of use of black propaganda is that the United States paid Iraqis to publish articles written by US troops in their newspapers under the idea that they are unbiased and real accounts; this was brought forth by \"The New York Times\" in 2005. The article stated that it was the Lincoln Group who had been hired by the US government to create the propaganda. However, their names were later cleared from any wrongdoing.\n\nThe US was more successful with the \"Voice of America\" campaign, which is an old Cold War tactic that exploited people's desire for information. While the information they gave out to the Iraqis was truthful, they were in a high degree of competition with the opposing forces after the censorship of the Iraqi media was lifted with the removal of Saddam from power.\n\nIn November 2005, the \"Chicago Tribune\" and the \"Los Angeles Times\" alleged that the United States military had manipulated news reported in Iraqi media in an effort to cast a favourable light on its actions while demoralising the insurgency. Lt. Col. Barry Johnson, a military spokesman in Iraq, said the program is \"an important part of countering misinformation in the news by insurgents\", while a spokesman for former Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld said the allegations of manipulation were troubling if true. The Department of Defense confirmed the existence of the program.\n\nThe extent to which the US government used propaganda aimed at its own people is a matter of discussion. The book \"Selling Intervention & War,\" by Jon Western, argued that president Bush was \"selling the war\" to the public. In a 2005 talk to students Bush said: \"See, in my line of work, you got to keep repeating things over and over, and over again, for the truth to sink in, to kind of catapult the propaganda.\"\n\nWhile the United States' official stance was to remove Saddam Hussein's power in Iraq with allegations that his government held weapons of mass destruction or was related to Osama Bin Laden, over time the Iraq war as a whole has been seen in a negative light. Video and picture coverage in the news has shown shocking and disturbing images of torture and other evils being done under the Iraqi Government.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6295444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6295444", "title": "Indoctrinate U", "text": "Indoctrinate U\n\nIndoctrinate U is a 2007 American feature-length documentary film written by, directed by and starring Evan Coyne Maloney, that examines controversial topics like equality and fairness, diversity, ideological conformism and political correctness in American institutions of higher education.\n\nMaloney argues that while students involved with the \"campus free speech movement\" of the 1960s nobly and successfully defended the rights of students to think and express and freely share ideas, their message subsequently devolved into one that allows \"only\" their viewpoints to be heard.\n\nThe film portrays incidents where minority critics of controversial policies such as affirmative action, like political activist and former University of California Regent Ward Connerly, are shouted off stage or otherwise have their views marginalized, seemingly without real consideration - often simply by likening them to Nazis or Klansmen to delegitimize them entirely; or how students at Cal State San Bernardino and at other schools across the nation trying to illustrate the inherent racism of affirmative action by holding \"affirmative action bake sales\" are ironically reprimanded for expressing \"hate speech\".\n\nClips of anti-military protests at UC Santa Cruz and San Francisco State University at one point show how protestors demanded that recruiters from the Army Corps of Engineers leave the school's career fair, with such fervor that it led the cancellation of the entire event. Also shown is the treatment of conservative students at the University of Tennessee and Cal Poly.\n\nAlso included are the racial and ethnic politics at the University of Michigan and Yale, teaching at Duke and Columbia; interviews with David French and Greg Lukianoff, (then respectively president and director of legal and public advocacy at the Foundation for Individual Rights in Education), Glenn Reynolds, Daniel Pipes, Carol Miller Swain, and others.\n\nMaloney spent two and a half years making the documentary by conducting interviews on various college campuses and with various thinkers. The film was preceded by two shorter versions, \"Brainwashing 101\" and \"Brainwashing 201: The Second Semester\". The two shorts led the 2004 American Film Renaissance festival to select \"Indoctrinate U\" as its \"most anticipated documentary.\"\n\n\"Indoctrinate U\" was produced by On the Fence Films with the support of the Moving Picture Institute, and Stuart Browning, Blaine Greenberg, and Thor Halvorssen. The film's executive producers are Stuart Browning and Blaine Greenberg. Its associate producer is Frayda Levy. It was edited by Chandler Tuttle.\n\nIn March 2007, Maloney appeared on \"Hannity's America\" to discuss the film. On April 19 of the same year, he appeared on C-SPAN's Washington Journal where they showed clips from the film and took calls.\n\nOn November 13, 2007, the official website was taken down and replaced with a notice that read: \"Due to threatened legal action from a major taxpayer-funded university, we've temporarily taken down the Indoctrinate U homepage while we assess our options.\" The website was back up by December 4. Maloney explained in a statement that Indiana University claimed there was a similarity between the university's logo and that of the film's. The \"Indoctrinate U\" logo was changed and the website resumed operation. In a note to the \"Wall Street Journal\", Maloney emphasized his ready compliance with IU's demands, saying that while he was confident that the film's logo was not an infringement of IU's rights to their own logo, as the differences of the two are \"readily apparent\", as well as the fact that \"there is also no likelihood of consumer confusion because our product is a film whereas theirs is four years in Bloomington.\" It was decided that it was simpler to comply with the demands than to fight them, particularly because the logo had little bearing on the film itself. Maloney says that he became more confused when, after the dispute was settled, Indiana University (which doesn't appear in the film) demanded a sum of money from the production company - which Maloney and others viewed as an attempt to bankrupt the company and silence him.\n\nA review in \"The Weekly Standard\" said, \"The documentary combines relatively shocking footage (one professor excitedly tells the camera \"whiteness is a form of racial oppression . . . treason to whiteness is loyalty to humanity\") with snappy editing to create a documentary that bounces quickly from subject to subject.\"\n\nExamples of \"intellectual thuggery\" in the film are nothing more than \"the tip of a disgusting iceberg\", laments Walter E. Williams, noting that \"Several university officials refused to be interviewed for the documentary. They wanted to keep their campus policies under wraps, not only from reporters but parents as well.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "51240989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51240989", "title": "International Year of Volunteers", "text": "International Year of Volunteers\n\nInternational Year of Volunteers was designated for 2001 by the United Nations General Assembly. The initiative aimed at increased recognition, facilitation, networking and promotion of volunteering, to highlight the achievements of the millions of volunteers worldwide who devote their time to serving others, and to encourage more people globally to engage in volunteering.\n\nThe concept for a United Nations year to recognize volunteerism first emerged within the UN system at a 1996 policy forum in Japan by UNV and United Nations University (UNU). A February 1997 proposal of the Government of Japan was transmitted through the UN Secretary General be placed on the agenda of the Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) in July 1997. ECOSOC, in its resolution 1977/44 of 22 July 1997, recommended to the UN General Assembly that it adopt the resolution proclaiming 2001 the International Year of Volunteers. The UN General Assembly, in its 52nd session on 20 November 1997 in Resolution 52/17, co-sponsored by 123 countries, passed the ECOSOC resolution, thereby proclaiming 2001 as the International Year of Volunteers. The United Nations Volunteers programme (UNV), part of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), was designated in the resolution as the international focal point.\n\nObjectives of IYV were:\n\nSharon Capeling-Alakija was the Executive Coordinator of United Nations Volunteers during IYV 2001. As the international focal point, UNV, based in Bonn, Germany, took the lead in all organizing and promotion regarding the year internationally.\n\nThe \"www.iyv2001.org\" website, launched in December 1998 by UNV, provided resources for United Nations organizations, non-governmental organizations and governments to recognize the year in some way. The resources provided by the site included:\n\nThe IYV logo was a creation and volunteer contribution from Argentine designer Sandra Rojas, and was provided in the six official UN languages as well as a composite logo that combines all six in one.\n\nUN Secretary-General Kofi Annan opened IYV in November 2000 in New York. Other speakers at the event included Capeling-Alakija; Felipe VI of Spain (then Prince of Asturias]]; Nadia Comaneci, Olympic Gold Medalist; representatives from the governments of Japan, Uganda and Brazil; Dr. Astrid Heiberg, then President of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC); Anita Roddick, then CEO of The Body Shop; Bernard Kouchner, then of UNMIK in Kosovo; Sergio Vieira de Mello, then of UNTAET in East Timor; UN Volunteers from the Philippines and Nigeria; and representatives from NetAid. Annan also appointed the former President of Ghana, Jerry Rawlings, as the first IYV Eminent Person, to help raise the profile of millions of volunteers working for peace and development around the world. Other IYV Eminent Persons named for the year included Crown Prince Felipe, Roddick, and the former Executive Director of the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), Dr. Nafis Sadik.\n\nAt the Word Volunteer Conference in Amsterdam, in honor of IYV, the International Association for Volunteer Effort re-issued a revised Universal Declaration on Volunteering, first issued in 1990 during the World Volunteer Conference in Paris. \"This Declaration supports the right of every woman, man and child to associate freely and to volunteer regardless of their cultural and ethnic origin, religion, age, gender, and physical, social or economic condition.\"\n\nIndividual countries also created their own national IYV websites, and events were held around the world to promote the goals of IYV, such as the official launch event in New York City.\n\nIn the USA, the Points of Light Foundation and the Association of Junior Leagues International (AJLI) partnered to convene and lead the IYV USA Steering Committee. Members of the committee included the National Council of Volunteer Centers, National Council on Workplace Volunteering, Association for Volunteer Administration, National Parents and Teachers Association and Make A Difference Day. The USA's IYV web site, \"www.iyv2001us.org\", was launched in September 2000.\n\nOn 29 March 2001, the United Nations Postal Administration (UNPA) issued a set of six commemorative stamps and a souvenir card in honor of IYV.\n\nFour IYV 2001 Stamps were issued by the Bhutan Post on June 15.\n\nCharles, Prince of Wales unveiled the design of a 10-cent Canadian circulation coin commemorating IYV in April 2001. The coin went into circulation later that year. It was produced by Royal Canadian Mint and adapted from a photo provided by the March of Dimes.\n\nAccording to a press release by UNV in October 2001, lawmakers in France, Germany, Spain and the UK passed pro-volunteer legislation in 2001, and new laws were proposed in Argentina, Colombia, Ecuador, Madagascar, Mozambique, Nepal, Senegal and Tanzania. Also for the year, UNV and the Independent Sector released \"Measuring Volunteering: A Practical Toolkit,\" a survey guide to measure the economic contribution of volunteering. The press release says the toolkit was adapted for use in Botswana, China, Lao PDR, Kazakhstan and Mongolia, and that research on volunteering had begun in Cambodia, Madagascar, Namibia, Sri Lanka and Tanzania.\n\nSolicited by UNV, musicians from around the world donated and wrote songs about volunteerism, submitting them to UNV for possible inclusion on the IYV2001 website and in a CD. Chosen songs were offered via the website to download for free. UNV also offered a CD with 27 songs in nine languages, by musicians from 18 countries, in celebration of IYV. The CD featured Jamaican reggae star Tony Rebel, who donated the song, \"Not all about money\", and Portugal's Paulo de Carvalho, who donated the song \"Vai e faz\" (Go and Do). Most of the songs praised the virtues of volunteers, but the last song, by Dave Greenfield of Canada, was meant to provoke political debate and question social issues about volunteers.\n\nThe United Colors of Benetton's communication campaign for autumn 2001 was produced in collaboration with UNV and honored IYV. Instead of professional models, the campaign featured photos of volunteers, such as a tattooed former member of a street gang who volunteered in anti-violence activities, a young lawyer volunteering to promote and defend human rights, a trans-gendered person who volunteered to distribute condoms amongst prostitutes, and an elderly tap dancer who entertained residents in homes for the elderly. The campaign was promoted throughout Europe, the United States, South America and parts of Asia, in newspapers, magazines, and billboards. A special issue of Benetton's magazine \"Colors\" was published for the campaign in November 2001.\n\nThe final event for the year by UNV, the International Symposium on Volunteering, was 18–21 November 2001 in Geneva, Switzerland. The event was attended by representatives from most of the IYV national committees, and provided workshops to discuss the outcomes of IYV 2001.\n\nThen Pope John Paul II issued a statement on December 5, 2001, noting, \"At the end of the year, that the United Nations dedicated to Volunteer work, I wish to express my heartfelt appreciation for your constant dedication, in every part of the world, in going to meet those who live in poverty. Whether you work individually or gathered together in special associations, you represent for children, the elderly, the sick, people in difficulty, refugees and the persecuted a ray of hope that pierces the darkness of solitude and encourages them to overcome the temptations of violence and egotism.\"\n\nThe General Assembly marked the closing of IYV on December 5, 2001 by adopting a resolution on recommendations for volunteer action, commending the ongoing contributions of all volunteers to society, and encouraging all people to become more engaged in voluntary activities. The assembly also decided that two plenary meetings at its fifty-seventh session on 5 December 2002 should be devoted to the outcome of the IYV and its follow-up. Specific recommendations on ways governments and the UN system could support volunteering were contained in an annex to the resolution.\n\nWorldwide volunteer activities of the Vienna based NGO community were presented at the Vienna International Centre on 11 December 2001 to mark IYV 2001 and the International Day of Human Rights, jointly organized by the United Nations Information Service Vienna (UNIS) and CONGO (Conference of NGOs in consultative relationship with the UN).\n\nThe European Year of Volunteering (EYV) was in 2011, launched by the European Commission to celebrate the volunteerism efforts of Europeans and chosen to correspond with the 10th anniversary of IYV. It was originally an initiative of the EYV 2011 Alliance, an informal gathering of volunteer networks, such as Caritas, the International Committee of the Red Cross and European Youth Forum. The web site address was \"www.europa.eu/volunteering\", and the site is now archived on the European Commission website.\n\nIn 2011, ten years after IYV, under General Assembly Resolution 63/153 (2008) the United Nations IYV+10 was recognized and promoted by UNV to renew the goals of the original IYV and to encourage people’s contributions to peace and the Millennium Development Goals through volunteering. National and international UN Volunteers, as well as online volunteers, were recruited to support work on IYV+10, strengthen links with stakeholders and partners at the national level, and monitor initiatives developed during the Year. Activities were promoted via the UNV web site www.worldvolunteerweb.org. During the first half of 2011, a series of five regional consultation meetings were organized in Ecuador (28–20 March), Turkey (18–19 April), the Philippines (3–4 May), and Senegal (30–31 May for Francophone Africa and 6–7 June for Anglophone Africa). These events brought together hundreds of stakeholders from civil society, the private sector, national authorities and academia, UNV Field Units and other United Nations entities. A global conference on ‘Volunteering for a sustainable future’ was held 15–17 September in Budapest in partnership with the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC) and the International Association for Volunteer Effort (IAVE). The conference brought together UN member states and volunteer-involving organizations, plus partners from academia and the private sector. The 64th Annual UN DPI/NGO Conference was held from 3–5 September hosted by the German government and the city of Bonn. The event theme was ‘Sustainable Societies, Responsive Citizens’.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5540598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5540598", "title": "John Dory (song)", "text": "John Dory (song)\n\nJohn Dory is Child ballad number 284. The fish John Dory may be named for the title person.\nThe song is a three-part round. The first printing of the tune and text is 1609 in Thomas Ravenscroft's \"Deuteromelia\" songbook but we have earlier mentions of the song in books. It was quite popular and both parodies and satires were written to the same melody.\n\nJohn Dory, a ship's captain (perhaps a pirate, likely French) appeals to the king of France for a pardon, promising to bring him captive Englishmen. The first ship John Dory meets is a \"good black bark\" (ship) with \"50 oars on a side\" owned by Nicholl, a Cornish man. After a battle, John Dory is captured. \n\nThe king mentioned in the song (\"good King John of France\") might well be John II of France (1319–1364) who was known as \"John the Good\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50175857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50175857", "title": "Las Carretas, Costa Rican Oxcarts", "text": "Las Carretas, Costa Rican Oxcarts\n\nLas carretas, Costa Rican oxcarts, are a large part of Costa Rican history. They allowed for the expansion and increase of exports of many goods including Costa Rica's main export, coffee. It also is a huge part of Costa Rican culture today. The oxcarts are considered one of Costa Rica's national symbols.\n\nIn general, las carretas are carts pulled by oxen as a means for transportation of goods across many different terrains. They can have either two wheels or four and can be attached to oxen with a rope or chain. The front of the cart has a section where the driver and one passenger can sit and the back section has room for the cargo that needs to be transported. They can navigate through multiple different terrains including mountains, beaches, swamps, rivers, etc. Today, las carretas are mainly used for celebrations and art rather than their original purpose, transporting goods. They are considered one of the traditional and cultural icons for Costa Rica.\n\nOriginally, Spanish colonizers brought the design of the oxcart to Costa Rica as a tool to assist with transportation and work. But, the original design continually broke due to the different Costa Rican topography and climate. So during the 19th century, a new design was built to withstand these. Thus, the Costa Rican oxcart was created.\n\nIts main use at that time was with the multiple coffee plantations across the country to transport coffee beans to ports to be shipped out on boats. This new cart allowed for the transportation of these beans across beaches, hills, mountains, and swamps due to its spoke-less wheels. These wheels were a hybrid between the disk used by the Aztec and the spoked wheel introduced by the Spanish. They allowed for better movement over the rough terrain. In addition, these oxcarts were the only means of transportation for many families and became a vital part of their lives.\n\nThe first shipment of coffee to London was transported from coffee plantations to Costa Rica’s main port by oxcarts in 1843.\nBetween 1844 and 1846, oxcarts also carried coffee to the province of Puntarenas in Costa Rica. These carts weren’t originally pulled by oxen, they were pulled by people. As the coffee industry grew larger and larger, so did the need to use oxcarts for harvesting and transporting. The loads of coffee beans and goods also got larger, so they became too heavy for normal people to carry. So, these people were replaced by oxen. The golden age for the oxcarts was from 1850 to 1935.\n\nPainting and decorating oxcarts began in the early 20th century, when each region in Costa Rica began creating its own design allowing for identification when in transportation. Then, cow herders began hand-painting their own oxcarts in addition to their identification designs. Many of these paintings included bright colors, geometric figures, and even portraits of people and beautiful landscapes. In 1903, people began enhancing their oxcarts by adding designs to their wheels. In 1915, the entire wheels were painted and decorated to create a distinct look for each family. Many times these designs would show the social status of the families.\n\nOnce the oxcart became a source of pride for many people, greater care was taken when crafting them like selecting the best-quality wood. Eventually, contests were held to award the “most creative and inspiring ox cart designs.” Many of these are still a part of tradition today. Many oxcarts were even designed to make its own ‘song’, a unique chime created when a metal ring strikes the hubnut of the wheel while going down the road.\n\nAfter World War II, the oxcarts began to be replaced due to new inventions such as trains, tractors, and trucks. On March 22, 1988, La Carreta was designated the National Labor Symbol for Costa Rica. In addition on November 24, 2005, the typical oxcart was declared Intangible Cultural Heritage by UNESCO. “It is not an exaggeration to say that the Republic of Costa Rica was built with the strong tenacity of the oxcart. In each aspect of agricultural labor, the countrymen abide by the strength of their oxen, plowing the earth, hauling harvests, and bringing sugar cane to the mills. As a mode of transportation, the oxcart, always pulled by a pair of faithful oxen, took products to market, transported travelers, was an ambulance for the sick and, often the funeral car for the dead” wrote Michael Sims in his book La Carreta Pintada, The Painted Oxcart.\n\nToday, these carretas don’t show much resemblance to the original rectangular carts that were covered by rawhide tarps. Though trucks and trains have replaced oxcarts, many farmers still stick to the old ways by using them during harvest season or when places are too rough for modern vehicles.They are still prominent in parades, festivals, and other large and small celebrations. The most famous of these takes place in San Antonio de Escazú, a town in San José, the 2nd Sunday of March every year. The Oxcart Drivers Day, Día de los Boyeros, has been celebrated for over 30 years. In 2014, over 200 sets of oxen and carts participated in the event.\n\nOxcarts are not only used in Costa Rica but also all around Central America. But, the Costa Rican oxcart stands out due to its unique and colorful patterns and shapes many times including even flowers, stars, and animals. Although many oxcarts are similar, no two are painted exactly the same. The art of painting these oxcarts has been passed down from generation to generation. It is common to see these beautiful oxcarts in many gardens and in more than 200 stores. These stores offer a variety of oxcarts in all kinds of sizes and colors.\n\n"}
{"id": "2177523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2177523", "title": "Latis", "text": "Latis\n\nIn ancient Celtic polytheism, Latis is the name of two Celtic deities worshipped in Roman Britain. One is a goddess (Dea Latis), the other a god (Deus Latis), and they are both known from a single inscription each.\n\nThe dedication to Dea Latis was found at Birdoswald Roman Fort in Cumbria, England, in 1873. It reads simply:\nThe E is written as a ||. The stone is now in the Carlisle Museum.\nShe may have been associated with the nearby rivers.\n\nThe dedication to Deus Latis, recovered on an altar-stone at the Roman fort of Aballava, Burgh-by-Sands (also in Cumbria) reads:\n\nThe altar-stone to Deus Latis was found near an image of a horned god named Belatucadros.\n\nThe name 'Latis' may conceivably be related to the Proto-Celtic words *\"lati-\" meaning 'liquor', *\"lat-\" 'day', or *\"lāto-\" 'lust'.\n\n"}
{"id": "11374417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11374417", "title": "List of Dominican Republic films", "text": "List of Dominican Republic films\n\nA list of films produced in, set in, or related to the Dominican Republic, in chronological order.\n\n"}
{"id": "46595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46595", "title": "Loom", "text": "Loom\n\nA loom is a device used to weave cloth and tapestry. The basic purpose of any loom is to hold the warp threads under tension to facilitate the interweaving of the weft threads. The precise shape of the loom and its mechanics may vary, but the basic function is the same.\n\nThe word \"loom\" is derived from the Old English \"geloma\", formed from ge-(perfective prefix) and \"loma\", a root of unknown origin; this meant a utensil, tool, or machine of any kind. In 1404 it was used to mean a machine to enable weaving thread into cloth. By 1838, it had gained the meaning of a machine for interlacing thread.\n\nWeaving is done by intersecting the longitudinal threads, the warp, i.e. \"that which is thrown across\", with the transverse threads, the weft, i.e. \"that which is woven\".\n\nThe major components of the loom are the warp beam, heddles, harnesses or shafts (as few as two, four is common, sixteen not unheard of), shuttle, reed and takeup roll. In the loom, yarn processing includes shedding, picking, battening and taking-up operations. These are the principal motions.\n\n\n\nThere are two secondary motions, because with each weaving operation the newly constructed fabric must be wound on a cloth beam. This process is called taking up. At the same time, the warp yarns must be let off or released from the warp beams. To become fully automatic, a loom needs a tertiary motion, the filling stop motion. This will brake the loom if the weft thread breaks. An automatic loom requires 0.125 hp to 0.5 hp to operate.\n\nA simple loom which has roots in ancient civilizations consists of two sticks or bars between which the warps are stretched. One bar is attached to a fixed object, and the other to the weaver usually by means of a strap around the back. On traditional looms, the two main sheds are operated by means of a shed roll over which one set of warps pass, and continuous string heddles which encase each of the warps in the other set. The weaver leans back and uses their body weight to tension the loom. To open the shed controlled by the string heddles, the weaver relaxes tension on the warps and raises the heddles. The other shed is usually opened by simply drawing the shed roll toward the weaver. Both simple and complex textiles can be woven on this loom. Width is limited to how far the weaver can reach from side to side to pass the shuttle. Warp faced textiles, often decorated with intricate pick-up patterns woven in complementary and supplementary warp techniques are woven by indigenous peoples today around the world. They produce such things as belts, ponchos, bags, hatbands and carrying cloths. Supplementary weft patterning and brocading is practiced in many regions. Balanced weaves are also possible on the backstrap loom. Today, commercially produced backstrap loom kits often include a rigid heddle.\n\nThe warp-weighted loom is a vertical loom that may have originated in the Neolithic period. The earliest evidence of warp-weighted looms comes from sites belonging to the Starčevo culture in modern Serbia and Hungary and from late Neolithic sites in Switzerland. This loom was used in Ancient Greece, and spread north and west throughout Europe thereafter. Its defining characteristic is hanging weights (loom weights) which keep bundles of the warp threads taut. Frequently, extra warp thread is wound around the weights. When a weaver has reached the bottom of the available warp, the completed section can be rolled around the top beam, and additional lengths of warp threads can be unwound from the weights to continue. This frees the weaver from vertical size constraint.\n\nA drawloom is a hand-loom for weaving figured cloth. In a drawloom, a \"figure harness\" is used to control each warp thread separately. A drawloom requires two operators, the weaver and an assistant called a \"drawboy\" to manage the figure harness. The earliest confirmed drawloom fabrics come from the State of Chu and date c. 400 BC. Most scholars attribute the invention of the drawloom to the ancient Chinese, although some speculate an independent invention from ancient Syria since drawloom fabrics found in Dura-Europas are thought to date before 256 AD. The draw loom for patterned weaving was invented in ancient China during the Han Dynasty. Chinese weavers and artisans used foot-powered multi-harness looms and jacquard looms for silk weaving and embroidery; both of which were cottage industries with imperial workshops. The Chinese-invented drawloom enhanced and sped up the production of silk and play a significant role in Chinese silk weaving. The loom was later introduced to Persia, India, and Europe.\n\nA handloom is a simple machine used for weaving. In a wooden vertical-shaft looms, the heddles are fixed in place in the shaft. The warp threads pass alternately through a heddle, and through a space between the heddles (the shed), so that raising the shaft raises half the threads (those passing through the heddles), and lowering the shaft lowers the same threads — the threads passing through the spaces between the heddles remain in place. This was a great invention in the 13th century.\n\nHand weavers could only weave a cloth as wide as their armspan. If cloth needed to be wider, two people would do the task (often this would be an adult with a child). John Kay (1704–1779) patented the flying shuttle in 1733. The weaver held a picking stick that was attached by cords to a device at both ends of the shed. With a flick of the wrist, one cord was pulled and the shuttle was propelled through the shed to the other end with considerable force, speed and efficiency. A flick in the opposite direction and the shuttle was propelled back. A single weaver had control of this motion but the flying shuttle could weave much wider fabric than an arm’s length at much greater speeds than had been achieved with the hand thrown shuttle.\n\nThe \"flying shuttle\" was one of the key developments in weaving that helped fuel the Industrial Revolution. The whole picking motion no longer relied on manual skill and it was just a matter of time before it could be powered.\n\nLooms used for weaving traditional tapestry are classified as \"haute-lisse\" looms, where the warp is suspended vertically between two rolls. In \"basse-lisse\" looms, however, the warp extends horizontally between the two rolls.\n\nSeveral other types of hand looms exist, including the simple frame loom, pit loom, free-standing loom, and the pegged loom. Each of these can be constructed, and provide work and income in developing economies.\n\nEdmund Cartwright built and patented a power loom in 1785, and it was this that was adopted by the nascent cotton industry in England. The silk loom made by Jacques Vaucanson in 1745 operated on the same principles but was not developed further. The invention of the flying shuttle by John Kay was critical to the development of a commercially successful power loom. Cartwright's loom was impractical but the ideas behind it were developed by numerous inventors in the Manchester area of England where, by 1818, there were 32 factories containing 5,732 looms.\n\nHorrocks loom was viable, but it was the Roberts Loom in 1830 that marked the turning point. Incremental changes to the three motions continued to be made. The problems of sizing, stop-motions, consistent take-up, and a temple to maintain the width remained. In 1841, Kenworthy and Bullough produced the Lancashire Loom which was self-acting or semi-automatic. This enables a youngster to run six looms at the same time. Thus, for simple calicos, the power loom became more economical to run than the hand loom – with complex patterning that used a dobby or Jacquard head, jobs were still put out to handloom weavers until the 1870s. Incremental changes were made such as the Dickinson Loom, culminating in the Keighley-born inventor Northrop, who was working for the Draper Corporation in Hopedale producing the fully automatic Northrop Loom. This loom recharged the shuttle when the pirn was empty. The Draper E and X models became the leading products from 1909. They were challenged by synthetic fibres such as rayon.\nBy 1942, faster, more efficient, and shuttleless Sulzer and rapier looms had been introduced. Modern industrial looms can weave at 2,000 weft insertions per minute.\n\nDifferent types of looms are most often defined by the way that the weft, or pick, is inserted into the warp. Many advances in weft insertion have been made in order to make manufactured cloth more cost effective. There are five main types of weft insertion and they are as follows:\n\nA dobby loom is a type of floor loom that controls the whole warp threads using a dobby head. Dobby is a corruption of \"draw boy\" which refers to the weaver's helpers who used to control the warp thread by pulling on draw threads. A dobby loom is an alternative to a treadle loom, where multiple heddles (shafts) were controlled by foot treadles – one for each heddle.\n\nThe Jacquard loom is a mechanical loom, invented by Joseph Marie Jacquard in 1801, which simplifies the process of manufacturing textiles with complex patterns such as brocade, damask and matelasse. The loom is controlled by punched cards with punched holes, each row of which corresponds to one row of the design. Multiple rows of holes are punched on each card and the many cards that compose the design of the textile are strung together in order. It is based on earlier inventions by the Frenchmen Basile Bouchon (1725), Jean Baptiste Falcon (1728) and Jacques Vaucanson (1740) To call it a loom is a misnomer, a Jacquard head could be attached to a power loom or a hand loom, the head controlling which warp thread was raised during shedding. Multiple shuttles could be used to control the colour of the weft during picking. The Jacquard loom is the predecessor to the punch card computers of the 19th and 20th centuries.\n\nA circular loom is used to create a seamless tube of fabric for products such as hosiery, sacks, clothing, fabric hose (such as fire hose) and the like. Circular looms can be small jigs used for Circular knitting or large high-speed machines for modern garments. Modern circular looms use up to ten shuttles driven from below in a circular motion by electromagnets for the weft yarns, and cams to control the warp threads. The warps rise and fall with each shuttle passage, unlike the common practice of lifting all of them at once.\n\nThe Loom is a symbol of cosmic creation and the structure upon which individual destiny is woven. This symbolism is encapsulated in the ancient Greek myth of Arachne who was changed into a spider by the goddess Athene, who was jealous of her skill at the godlike craft of weaving. In Maya Cultures the goddess Ixchel who is symbolized by the moon, taught the first woman how to weave at the beginning of time.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1110052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1110052", "title": "Magnus Hirschfeld Medal", "text": "Magnus Hirschfeld Medal\n\nThe Magnus Hirschfeld Medal is awarded by the German Society for Social-Scientific Sexuality Research (DGSS) for outstanding service to sexual science, granted in the categories \"Sexual Research\" and \"Sexual Reform\". It is named in honour of German sexology pioneer Magnus Hirschfeld (without the DGSS sharing his dated 'biologistic' sexual theory).\n\nWinners for contributions to sexual research\n\nWinners for contributions to sexual reform\n"}
{"id": "2491897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2491897", "title": "Mean length of utterance", "text": "Mean length of utterance\n\nMean length of utterance (or MLU) is a measure of linguistic productivity in children. It is traditionally calculated by collecting 100 utterances spoken by a child and dividing the number of morphemes by the number of utterances. A higher MLU is taken to indicate a higher level of language proficiency.\n\nMean length of utterance is a good marker of language impairment. It is the number of words or morphemes in each of their spontaneous utterances. It can be used to benchmark language acquisition and is used to compare language intervention outcomes in children with autism. In testing of children ages 3-9 with diagnoses of autism or autism spectrum disorders and nonverbal IQ scores below 85, results indicated that children with autism persistently scored below the unaffected group without significant improvement in scores concerning mean length of utterance. There may be variability in outcomes due to sampling differences.\n\nA study by Bishop and Adams (1990) suggests that MLU at 4.5 is a good predictor of reading ability at age 8. Nonetheless MLU is considered controversial, and should not be used as the only diagnostic measure of language proficiency in children.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "213171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=213171", "title": "Monolatry", "text": "Monolatry\n\nMonolatry (Greek: μόνος (\"monos\") = single, and λατρεία (\"latreia\") = worship) is belief in the existence of many gods but with the consistent worship of only one deity. The term \"monolatry\" was perhaps first used by Julius Wellhausen.\n\nMonolatry is distinguished from monotheism, which asserts the existence of only one god, and henotheism, a religious system in which the believer worships one god without denying that others may worship different gods with equal validity.\n\nThe pharaoh Akhenaten - who was initially enthroned as Amenhotep IV - initially introduced Atenism in Year 5 of his reign (1348/1346 BCE) during the Eighteenth Dynasty of Egypt. He raised Aten, once a relatively obscure solar deity representing the disk of the Sun, to the status of supreme deity in ancient Egyptian religion.\n\nYear 5 marked the beginning of his construction of a new capital, \"Akhetaten\" \"Horizon of the Aten\", at the site known today as Amarna. Amenhotep IV officially changed his name to \"Akhenaten\" \"Agreeable to the Aten\" as evidence of his new worship. In addition to constructing a new capital in honor of Aten, Akhenaten also oversaw the construction of some of the most massive temple complexes of ancient Egypt, including one at Karnak and one at Thebes close to the old temple of Amun.\n\nIn his ninth year of rule (1344/1342 BCE), Akhenaten declared a more radical version of his new religion, declaring Aten not merely the supreme god of the Egyptian pantheon but the only God of Egypt, with himself as the sole intermediary between the Aten and the Egyptian people. Key features of Atenism included a ban on idols and other images of the Aten, with the exception of a rayed solar disc in which the rays (commonly depicted ending in hands) appear to represent the unseen spirit of Aten. Aten was addressed by Akhenaten in prayers, such as the \"Great Hymn to the Aten\".\n\nThe details of Atenist theology are still unclear. The exclusion of all but one god and the prohibition of idols was a radical departure from Egyptian tradition, but most scholars see Akhenaten as a practitioner of monolatry rather than monotheism, as he did not actively deny the existence of other gods; he simply refrained from worshiping any but Aten. It is known that Atenism did not solely attribute divinity to the Aten. Akhenaten continued the imperial cult, proclaiming himself the son of Aten and encouraging the people to worship him. The people were to worship Akhenaten; only Akhenaten and the pharaoh's wife Nefertiti could worship Aten directly.\n\nUnder Akhenaten's successors, Egypt reverted to its traditional religion, and Akhenaten himself came to be reviled as a heretic.\n\nSome historians have argued that ancient Israel originally practiced a form of monolatry or henotheism. Both Frank Eakin, Jr. and John Scullion believe Moses was a monolatrist rather than a monotheist, and John Day suggests that angels are what became of the other gods once monotheism took over Israel. John McKenzie has stated: \"In the ancient Near East the existence of divine beings was universally accepted without questions. ... The question was not whether there is only one elohim, but whether there is any elohim like Yahweh.\"\n\nSome scholars claim the Torah (Pentateuch) shows evidence of monolatry in some passages. The argument is normally based on references to other gods, such as the \"gods of the Egyptians\" in the Book of Exodus (). The Egyptians are also attributed powers that suggest the existence of their gods; in , after Aaron transforms his staff into a snake, Pharaoh's sorcerers do likewise. In the ancient Near East, magic was generally believed to exist, though the Israelites viewed magic as being malign in origin and were forbidden from it. With regard to miracle and prophecy, the Bible commands the Israelites not to follow false prophets (those who compromise the law) and not to refrain from putting them to death. The miracles of false prophets are, like those of the Egyptian sorcerers, regarded by the Israelites as a divine test to see if the Israelites \"love the LORD [their] God with all [their] heart and with all [their] soul\". \n\nThe Ten Commandments have been interpreted by some as evidence that the Israelites originally practiced monolatry. reads \"Thou shalt have no other gods before me\", (Hebrew:לא יהיה־לך אלהים אחרים על־פני), and they argue that the addition of \"before me\" at the end of the commandment indicates that not only other gods may exist but that they may be respected and worshiped so long as less than Yahweh.\n\nThere is evidence that the Israelite people as a whole did not strictly adhere to monotheism before the Babylonian exile in the 6th century BCE. Much of this evidence comes from the Bible itself, which records that many Israelites chose to worship foreign gods and idols rather than Yahweh.\n\nDuring the 8th century BCE, the monotheistic worship of Yahweh in Israel was in competition with many other cults, described by the Yahwist faction collectively as Baals. The oldest books of the Hebrew Bible reflect this competition, as in the books of Hosea and Nahum, whose authors lament the \"apostasy\" of the people of Israel and threaten them with the wrath of God if they do not give up their polytheistic cults.\n\nOn the other hand, medieval scholars often interpreted ancient texts to argue that the ancient Israelites were monotheistic. The Shema Yisrael is often cited as proof that the Israelites practiced monotheism. It was recognized by Rashi in his 11th century commentary to that the declaration of the Shema accepts belief in one god as being only a part of Jewish faith at the time of Moses but would eventually be accepted by all humanity.\n\nA similar statement occurs in Maimonides' Thirteen Principles of Faith's second principle:\nPaul the Apostle, in his First Epistle to the Corinthians, writes that \"we know that an idol is nothing\" and \"that there is none other God but one\" (). He argues in verse 5 that \"for though there be that are called gods, whether in heaven or in earth\", \"but to us there is but one God\". Paul distinguishes between gods that have no authority or have a lesser authority, \"as there be gods many, and lords many\", and the one God who has universal authority, \"one God, the Father, of whom are all things\" and \"one Lord, Jesus Christ, of whom are all things\". Some translators of verse 5, put the words \"gods\" and \"lords\" in quotes to indicate that they are gods or lords only \"so-called\".\n\nIn his Second Epistle to the Corinthians, Paul refers to \"the god of this world\" (), which the eighteenth-century theologian John Gill interpreted as a reference to Satan or the material things put before God, such as money, rather than acknowledging any separate deity from God.\n\nThe Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) teaches that God the Father, Jesus Christ and the Holy Ghost are three distinct beings belonging to one Godhead: \"All three are united in their thoughts, actions, and purpose, with each having a fullness of knowledge, truth, and power.\" Latter-day Saints further believe that prayer should be directed to only God the Father in the name of Jesus Christ.\n\nJeffrey R. Holland has stated: We believe these three divine persons constituting a single Godhead are united in purpose, in manner, in testimony, in mission. We believe Them to be filled with the same godly sense of mercy and love, justice and grace, patience, forgiveness, and redemption. I think it is accurate to say we believe They are one in every significant and eternal aspect imaginable except believing Them to be three persons combined in one substance.Latter-day Saints interpret Jesus' prayer in , \"Holy Father, keep through thine own name those whom thou hast given me, that they may be one, as we are\" to refer to the characteristics, attributes and purpose that the Son shares with the Father in the hope that people can someday share in those as well. In Mormonism, being one with God means gaining immortality, perfection, eternal life, and the highest level in his kingdom. As D. Todd Christofferson states, \"we may become one with God\" as Jesus did.\n\nJoseph Smith taught that humans can become joint-heirs with Christ and thereby inherit from God all that Christ inherits if they are proven worthy by following the laws and ordinances of the gospel. This process of exaltation means that humans can literally become gods through the atonement; thus, \"god\" is a term for an inheritor of the highest kingdom of God. That allows for the existence of many gods in the future, but only one as ruler over life in this universe.\n\nTo the extent that monolatry is not considered monotheism, the classification of Mormonism as monolatrous is strongly disputed among Latter-day Saints. Bruce R. McConkie stated that \"if [monotheism] is properly interpreted to mean that the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost — each of whom is a separate and distinct godly personage—are one God, meaning one Godhead, then true saints are monotheists.\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "868108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=868108", "title": "Nanomaterials", "text": "Nanomaterials\n\nNanomaterials describe, in principle, materials of which a single unit is sized (in at least one dimension) between 1 to 1000 nanometres (10 meter) but usually is 1 to 100 nm (the usual definition of nanoscale).\n\nNanomaterials research takes a materials science-based approach to nanotechnology, leveraging advances in materials metrology and synthesis which have been developed in support of microfabrication research. Materials with structure at the nanoscale often have unique optical, electronic, or mechanical properties.\n\nNanomaterials are slowly becoming commercialized and beginning to emerge as commodities.\n\nThere are significant differences among agencies on the definition of a nanomaterial.\n\nIn ISO/TS 80004, \"nanomaterial\" is defined as a \"material with any external dimension in the nanoscale or having internal structure or surface structure in the nanoscale\", with \"nanoscale\" defined as the \"length range approximately from 1 nm to 100 nm\". This includes both \"nano-objects\", which are discrete pieces of material, and \"nanostructured materials\", which have internal or surface structure on the nanoscale; a nanomaterial may be a member of both these categories.\n\nOn 18 October 2011, the European Commission adopted the following definition of a nanomaterial: \"A natural, incidental or manufactured material containing particles, in an unbound state or as an aggregate or as an agglomerate and for 50% or more of the particles in the number size distribution, one or more external dimensions is in the size range 1 nm – 100 nm. In specific cases and where warranted by concerns for the environment, health, safety or competitiveness the number size distribution threshold of 50% may be replaced by a threshold between 1% to 50%.\"\n\nEngineered nanomaterials have been deliberately engineered and manufactured by humans to have certain required properties.\n\nLegacy nanomaterials are those that were in commercial production prior to the development of nanotechnology as incremental advancements over other colloidal or particulate materials. They include carbon black and titanium dioxide nanoparticles.\n\nNanomaterials may be incidentally produced as a byproduct of mechanical or industrial processes. Sources of incidental nanoparticles include vehicle engine exhausts, welding fumes, combustion processes from domestic solid fuel heating and cooking. For instance, the class of nanomaterials called fullerenes are generated by burning gas, biomass, and candle. It can also be a byproduct of wear and corrosion products. Incidental atmospheric nanoparticles are often referred to as ultrafine particles, which are unintentionally produced during an intentional operation, and could contribute to air pollution. \n\nBiological systems often feature natural, functional nanomaterials. The structure of foraminifera (mainly chalk) and viruses (protein, capsid), the wax crystals covering a lotus or nasturtium leaf, spider and spider-mite silk, the blue hue of tarantulas, the \"spatulae\" on the bottom of gecko feet, some butterfly wing scales, natural colloids (milk, blood), horny materials (skin, claws, beaks, feathers, horns, hair), paper, cotton, nacre, corals, and even our own bone matrix are all natural \"organic\" nanomaterials.\n\nNatural \"inorganic\" nanomaterials occur through crystal growth in the diverse chemical conditions of the Earth's crust. For example, clays display complex nanostructures due to anisotropy of their underlying crystal structure, and volcanic activity can give rise to opals, which are an instance of a naturally occurring photonic crystals due to their nanoscale structure. Fires represent particularly complex reactions and can produce pigments, cement, fumed silica etc.\n\nNatural sources of nanoparticles include combustion products forest fires, volcanic ash, ocean spray, and the radioactive decay of radon gas. Natural nanomaterials can also be formed through weathering processes of metal- or anion-containing rocks, as well as at acid mine drainage sites.\n\nNano-objects are often categorized as to how many of their dimensions fall in the nanoscale. A \"nanoparticle\" is defined a nano-object with all three external dimensions in the nanoscale, whose longest and the shortest axes do not differ significantly. A \"nanofiber\" has two external dimensions in the nanoscale, with \"nanotubes\" being hollow nanofibers and \"nanorods\" being solid nanofibers. A \"nanoplate\" has one external dimension in the nanoscale, and if the two larger dimensions are significantly different it is called a \"nanoribbon\". For nanofibers and nanoplates, the other dimensions may or may not be in the nanoscale, but must be significantly larger. A significant different in all cases is noted to be typically at least a factor of 3.\n\nNanostructured materials are often categorized by what phases of matter they contain. A \"nanocomposite\" is a solid containing at least one physically or chemically distinct region, or collection of regions, having at least one dimension in the nanoscale.. A \"nanofoam\" has a liquid or solid matrix, filled with a gaseous phase, where either phase has dimensions on the nanoscale. A \"nanoporous material\" is a solid material containing nanopores, cavities with dimensions on the nanoscale. A \"nanocrystalline material\" has a significant fraction of crystal grains in the nanoscale.\n\nIn other sources, nanoporous materials and nanofoam are sometimes considered nanostructures but not nanomaterials because only the voids and not the materials themselves are nanoscale. Although the ISO definition only considers round nano-objects to be nanoparticles, other sources use the term nanoparticle for all shapes.\n\nNanoparticles have all three dimensions on the nanoscale. Nanoparticles can also be embedded in a bulk solid to form a nanocomposite.\n\nThe fullerenes are a class of allotropes of carbon which conceptually are graphene sheets rolled into tubes or spheres. These include the carbon nanotubes (or silicon nanotubes) which are of interest both because of their mechanical strength and also because of their electrical properties.\nThe first fullerene molecule to be discovered, and the family's namesake, buckminsterfullerene (C), was prepared in 1985 by Richard Smalley, Robert Curl, James Heath, Sean O'Brien, and Harold Kroto at Rice University. The name was a homage to Buckminster Fuller, whose geodesic domes it resembles. Fullerenes have since been found to occur in nature. More recently, fullerenes have been detected in outer space.\n\nFor the past decade, the chemical and physical properties of fullerenes have been a hot topic in the field of research and development, and are likely to continue to be for a long time. In April 2003, fullerenes were under study for potential medicinal use: binding specific antibiotics to the structure of resistant bacteria and even target certain types of cancer cells such as melanoma. The October 2005 issue of Chemistry and Biology contains an article describing the use of fullerenes as light-activated antimicrobial agents. In the field of nanotechnology, heat resistance and superconductivity are among the\nproperties attracting intense research.\n\nA common method used to produce fullerenes is to send a large current between two nearby graphite electrodes in an inert atmosphere. The resulting carbon plasma arc between the electrodes cools into sooty residue from which many fullerenes can be isolated.\n\nThere are many calculations that have been done using ab-initio Quantum Methods applied to fullerenes. By DFT and TDDFT methods one can obtain IR, Raman and UV spectra. Results of such calculations can be compared with experimental results.\n\nInorganic nanomaterials, (e.g. quantum dots, nanowires and nanorods) because of their interesting optical and electrical properties, could be used in optoelectronics. Furthermore, the optical and electronic properties of nanomaterials which depend on their size and shape can be tuned via synthetic techniques. There are the possibilities to use those materials in organic material based optoelectronic devices such as Organic solar cells, OLEDs etc. The operating principles of such devices are governed by photoinduced processes like electron transfer and energy transfer. The performance of the devices depends on the efficiency of the photoinduced process responsible for their functioning. Therefore, better understanding of those photoinduced processes in organic/inorganic nanomaterial composite systems is necessary in order to use them in optoelectronic devices.\n\nNanoparticles or nanocrystals made of metals, semiconductors, or oxides are of particular interest for their mechanical, electrical, magnetic, optical, chemical and other properties. Nanoparticles have been used as quantum dots and as chemical catalysts such as nanomaterial-based catalysts. Recently, a range of nanoparticles are extensively investigated for biomedical applications including tissue engineering, drug delivery, biosensor.\nNanoparticles are of great scientific interest as they are effectively a bridge between bulk materials and atomic or molecular structures. A bulk material should have constant physical properties regardless of its size, but at the nano-scale this is often not the case. Size-dependent properties are observed such as quantum confinement in semiconductor particles, surface plasmon resonance in some metal particles and superparamagnetism in magnetic materials.\n\nNanoparticles exhibit a number of special properties relative to bulk material. For example, the bending of bulk copper (wire, ribbon, etc.) occurs with movement of copper atoms/clusters at about the 50 nm scale. Copper nanoparticles smaller than 50 nm are considered super hard materials that do not exhibit the same malleability and ductility as bulk copper. The change in properties is not always desirable. Ferroelectric materials smaller than 10 nm can switch their polarization direction using room temperature thermal energy, thus making them useless for memory storage. Suspensions of nanoparticles are possible because the interaction of the particle surface with the solvent is strong enough to overcome differences in density, which usually result in a material either sinking or floating in a liquid. Nanoparticles often have unexpected visual properties because they are small enough to confine their electrons and produce quantum effects. For example, gold nanoparticles appear deep red to black in solution.\n\nThe often very high surface area to volume ratio of nanoparticles provides a tremendous driving force for diffusion, especially at elevated temperatures. Sintering is possible at lower temperatures and over shorter durations than for larger particles. This theoretically does not affect the density of the final product, though flow difficulties and the tendency of nanoparticles to agglomerate do complicate matters. The surface effects of nanoparticles also reduces the incipient melting temperature.\n\nThe smallest possible crystalline wires with cross-section as small as a single atom can be engineered in cylindrical confinement. Carbon nanotubes, a natural semi-1D nanostructure, can be used as a template for synthesis. Confinement provides mechanical stabilization and prevents linear atomic chains from disintegration; other structures of 1D nanowires are predicted to be mechanically stable even upon isolation from the templates.\n\n2D materials are crystalline materials consisting of a two-dimensional single layer of atoms. The most important representative graphene was discovered in 2004.\n\nBox-shaped graphene (BSG) nanostructure is an example of 3D nanomaterial. BSG nanostructure has appeared after mechanical cleavage of pyrolytic graphite. This nanostructure is a multilayer system of parallel hollow nanochannels located along the surface and having quadrangular cross-section. The thickness of the channel walls is approximately equal to 1 nm. The typical width of channel facets makes about 25 nm.\n\nThin films with nanoscale thicknesses are considered nanostructures, but are sometimes not considered nanomaterials because they do not exist separately from the substrate.\n\nSome bulk materials contain features on the nanoscale, including nanocomposites, nanocrystalline materials, nanostructured films, and nanotextured surfaces.\n\nNano materials are used in a variety of, manufacturing processes, products and healthcare including paints, filters, insulation and lubricant additives. In healthcare Nanozymes are nanomaterials with enzyme-like characteristics. They are an emerging type of artificial enzyme, which have been used for wide applications in such as biosensing, bioimaging, tumor diagnosis, antibiofouling and more. In paints nanomaterials are used to improve UV protection and improve ease of cleaning. High quality filters may be produced using nanostructures, these filters are capable of removing particulate as small as a virus as seen in a water filter created by Seldon Technologies. In the air purification field, nano technology was used to combat the spread of MERS in Saudi Arabian hospitals in 2012. Nanomaterials are being used in modern and human-safe insulation technologies, in the past they were found in Asbestos-based insulation. As a lubricant additive, nano materials have the ability to reduce friction in moving parts. Worn and corroded parts can also be repaired with self-assembling anisotropic nanoparticles called TriboTEX.\n\nThe goal of any synthetic method for nanomaterials is to yield a material that exhibits properties that are a result of their characteristic length scale being in the nanometer range (1 – 100 nm). Accordingly, the synthetic method should exhibit control of size in this range so that one property or another can be attained. Often the methods are divided into two main types, \"bottom up\" and \"top down.\"\n\nBottom up methods involve the assembly of atoms or molecules into nanostructured arrays. In these methods the raw material sources can be in the form of gases, liquids or solids. The latter require some sort of disassembly prior to their incorporation onto a nanostructure. Bottom up methods generally fall into two categories: chaotic and controlled.\n\nChaotic processes involve elevating the constituent atoms or molecules to a chaotic state and then suddenly changing the conditions so as to make that state unstable. Through the clever manipulation of any number of parameters, products form largely as a result of the insuring kinetics. The collapse from the chaotic state can be difficult or impossible to control and so ensemble statistics often govern the resulting size distribution and average size. Accordingly, nanoparticle formation is controlled through manipulation of the end state of the products. Examples of chaotic processes are laser ablation, exploding wire, arc, flame pyrolysis, combustion, and precipitation synthesis techniques.\n\nControlled processes involve the controlled delivery of the constituent atoms or molecules to the site(s) of nanoparticle formation such that the nanoparticle can grow to a prescribed sizes in a controlled manner. Generally the state of the constituent atoms or molecules are never far from that needed for nanoparticle formation. Accordingly, nanoparticle formation is controlled through the control of the state of the reactants. Examples of controlled processes are self-limiting growth solution, self-limited chemical vapor deposition, shaped pulse femtosecond laser techniques, and molecular beam epitaxy.\n\nNovel effects can occur in materials when structures are formed with sizes comparable to any one of many possible length scales, such as the de Broglie wavelength of electrons, or the optical wavelengths of high energy photons. In these cases quantum mechanical effects can dominate material properties. One example is quantum confinement where the electronic properties of solids are altered with great reductions in particle size. The optical properties of nanoparticles, e.g. fluorescence, also become a function of the particle diameter. This effect does not come into play by going from macrosocopic to micrometer dimensions, but becomes pronounced when the nanometer scale is reached.\n\nIn addition to optical and electronic properties, the novel mechanical properties of many nanomaterials is the subject of nanomechanics research. When added to a bulk material, nanoparticles can strongly influence the mechanical properties of the material, such as the stiffness or elasticity. For example, traditional polymers can be reinforced by nanoparticles (such as carbon nanotubes) resulting in novel materials which can be used as lightweight replacements for metals. Such composite materials may enable a weight reduction accompanied by an increase in stability and improved functionality.\n\nFinally, nanostructured materials with small particle size such as zeolites, and asbestos, are used as catalysts in a wide range of critical industrial chemical reactions. The further development of such catalysts can form the basis of more efficient, environmentally friendly chemical processes.\n\nThe first observations and size measurements of nano-particles were made during the first decade of the 20th century. Zsigmondy made detailed studies of gold sols and other nanomaterials with sizes down to 10 nm and less. He published a book in 1914. He used an ultramicroscope that employs a \"dark field\" method for seeing particles with sizes much less than light wavelength.\n\nThere are traditional techniques developed during the 20th century in interface and colloid science for characterizing nanomaterials. These are widely used for \"first generation\" passive nanomaterials specified in the next section.\n\nThese methods include several different techniques for characterizing particle size distribution. This characterization is imperative because many materials that are expected to be nano-sized are actually aggregated in solutions. Some of methods are based on light scattering. Others apply ultrasound, such as ultrasound attenuation spectroscopy for testing concentrated nano-dispersions and microemulsions.\n\nThere is also a group of traditional techniques for characterizing surface charge or zeta potential of nano-particles in solutions. This information is required for proper system stabilzation, preventing its aggregation or flocculation. These methods include microelectrophoresis, electrophoretic light scattering and electroacoustics. The last one, for instance colloid vibration current method is suitable for characterizing concentrated systems.\n\nThe chemical processing and synthesis of high performance technological components for the private, industrial and military sectors requires the use of high purity ceramics, polymers, glass-ceramics and material composites. In condensed bodies formed from fine powders, the irregular sizes and shapes of nanoparticles in a typical powder often lead to non-uniform packing morphologies that result in packing density variations in the powder compact.\n\nUncontrolled agglomeration of powders due to attractive van der Waals forces can also give rise to in microstructural inhomogeneities. Differential stresses that develop as a result of non-uniform drying shrinkage are directly related to the rate at which the solvent can be removed, and thus highly dependent upon the distribution of porosity. Such stresses have been associated with a plastic-to-brittle transition in consolidated bodies, and can yield to crack propagation in the unfired body if not relieved.\nIn addition, any fluctuations in packing density in the compact as it is prepared for the kiln are often amplified during the sintering process, yielding inhomogeneous densification. Some pores and other structural defects associated with density variations have been shown to play a detrimental role in the sintering process by growing and thus limiting end-point densities. Differential stresses arising from inhomogeneous densification have also been shown to result in the propagation of internal cracks, thus becoming the strength-controlling flaws.\nIt would therefore appear desirable to process a material in such a way that it is physically uniform with regard to the distribution of components and porosity, rather than using particle size distributions which will maximize the green density. The containment of a uniformly dispersed assembly of strongly interacting particles in suspension requires total control over particle-particle interactions. It should be noted here that a number of dispersants such as ammonium citrate (aqueous) and imidazoline or oleyl alcohol (nonaqueous) are promising solutions as possible additives for enhanced dispersion and deagglomeration. Monodisperse nanoparticles and colloids provide this potential.\n\nMonodisperse powders of colloidal silica, for example, may therefore be stabilized sufficiently to ensure a high degree of order in the colloidal crystal or polycrystalline colloidal solid which results from aggregation. The degree of order appears to be limited by the time and space allowed for longer-range correlations to be established. Such defective polycrystalline colloidal structures would appear to be the basic elements of sub-micrometer colloidal materials science, and, therefore, provide the first step in developing a more rigorous understanding of the mechanisms involved in microstructural evolution in high performance materials and components.\nThe quantitative analysis of nanomaterials showed that nanoparticles, nanotubes, nanocrystalline materials, nanocomposites, and graphene have been mentioned in 400000, 181000, 144000, 140000, and 119000 ISI-indexed articles, respectively, by Sep 2018. As far as patents are concerned, nanoparticles, nanotubes, nanocomposites, graphene, and nanowires have been played a role in 45600, 32100, 12700, 12500, and 11800 patents, respectively. Monitoring approximately 7000 commercial nano-based products available on global markets revealed that the properties of around 2330 products have been enabled or enhanced aided by nanoparticles. Liposomes, nanofibers, nanocolloids, and aerogels were also of the most common nanomaterials in consumer products.\n\nThe European Union Observatory for Nanomaterials (EUON) has produced a database (NanoData) that provides information on specific patents, products, and research publications on nanomaterials. \n\nThe World Health Organization (WHO) published a guideline on protecting workers from potential risk of manufactured nanomaterials at the end of 2017. WHO used a precautionary approach as one of its guiding principles. This means that exposure has to be reduced, despite uncertainty about the adverse health effects, when there are reasonable indications to do so. This is highlighted by recent scientific studies that demonstrate a capability of nanoparticles to cross cell barriers and interact with cellular structures. In addition, the hierarchy of controls was an important guiding principle. This means that when there is a choice between control measures, those measures that are closer to the root of the problem should always be preferred over measures that put a greater burden on workers, such as the use of personal protective equipment (PPE). WHO commissioned systematic reviews for all important issues to assess the current state of the science and to inform the recommendations according to the process set out in the WHO Handbook for guideline development. The recommendations were rated as \"strong\" or \"conditional\" depending on the quality of the scientific evidence, values and preferences, and costs related to the recommendation.\n\nThe WHO guidelines contain the following recommendations for safe handling of MNMs:\n\nA. Assess health hazards of MNMs\nB. Assess exposure to MNMs\nC. Control exposure to MNMs\nFor health surveillance WHO could not make a recommendation for targeted MNM-specific health surveillance programmes over existing health surveillance programmes that are already in use owing to the lack of evidence. WHO considers training of workers and worker involvement in health and safety issues to be best practice but could not recommend one form of training of workers over another, or one form of worker involvement over another, owing to the lack of studies available. It is expected that there will be considerable progress in validated measurement methods and risk assessment and WHO expects to update these guidelines in five years’ time, in 2022.\n\nBecause nanotechnology is a recent development, the health and safety effects of exposures to nanomaterials, and what levels of exposure may be acceptable, are subjects of ongoing research. Of the possible hazards, inhalation exposure appears to present the most concern. Animal studies indicate that carbon nanotubes and carbon nanofibers can cause pulmonary effects including inflammation, granulomas, and pulmonary fibrosis, which were of similar or greater potency when compared with other known fibrogenic materials such as silica, asbestos, and ultrafine carbon black. Although the extent to which animal data may predict clinically significant lung effects in workers is not known, the toxicity seen in the short-term animal studies indicate a need for protective action for workers exposed to these nanomaterials, although no reports of actual adverse health effects in workers using or producing these nanomaterials were known as of 2013. Additional concerns include skin contact and ingestion exposure, and dust explosion hazards.\n\nElimination and substitution are the most desirable approaches to hazard control. While the nanomaterials themselves often cannot be eliminated or substituted with conventional materials, it may be possible to choose properties of the nanoparticle such as size, shape, functionalization, surface charge, solubility, agglomeration, and aggregation state to improve their toxicological properties while retaining the desired functionality. Handling procedures can also be improved, for example, using a nanomaterial slurry or suspension in a liquid solvent instead of a dry powder will reduce dust exposure. Engineering controls are physical changes to the workplace that isolate workers from hazards, mainly ventilation systems such as fume hoods, gloveboxes, biosafety cabinets, and vented balance enclosures. Administrative controls are changes to workers' behavior to mitigate a hazard, including training on best practices for safe handling, storage, and disposal of nanomaterials, proper awareness of hazards through labeling and warning signage, and encouraging a general safety culture. Personal protective equipment must be worn on the worker's body and is the least desirable option for controlling hazards. Personal protective equipment normally used for typical chemicals are also appropriate for nanomaterials, including long pants, long-sleeve shirts, and closed-toed shoes, and the use of safety gloves, goggles, and impervious laboratory coats. In some circumstances respirators may be used.\n\nExposure assessment is a set of methods used to monitor contaminant release and exposures to workers. These methods include personal sampling, where samplers are located in the personal breathing zone of the worker, often attached to a shirt collar to be as close to the nose and mouth as possible; and area/background sampling, where they are placed at static locations. The assessment should use both particle counters, which monitor the real-time quantity of nanomaterials and other background particles; and filter-based samples, which can be used to identify the nanomaterial, usually using electron microscopy and elemental analysis. As of 2016, quantitative occupational exposure limits have not been determined for most nanomaterials. The U.S. National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health has determined non-regulatory recommended exposure limits for carbon nanotubes, carbon nanofibers, and ultrafine titanium dioxide. Agencies and organizations from other countries, including the British Standards Institute and the Institute for Occupational Safety and Health in Germany, have established OELs for some nanomaterials, and some companies have supplied OELs for their products.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16912075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16912075", "title": "Oko-Juwoi language", "text": "Oko-Juwoi language\n\nThe Juwoi language, Oko-Juwoi (also \"Junoi\"), is an extinct Great Andamanese language, of the Central group. It was spoken in the west central and southwest interior of Middle Andaman.\n\nThe Juwoi were one of the indigenous peoples of the Andaman Islands, one of the ten or so Great Andamanese tribes identified by British colonials in the 1860s. Their language was closely related to the other Great Andamanese languages. They were extinct as a distinct people by 1931.\n\nThe Great Andamanese languages are agglutinative languages, with an extensive prefix and suffix system. They have a distinctive noun class system based largely on body parts, in which every noun and adjective may take a prefix according to which body part it is associated with (on the basis of shape, or functional association). Thus, for instance, the *aka- at the beginning of the language names is a prefix for objects related to the tongue. An adjectival example can be given by the various forms of \"yop\", \"pliable, soft\", in Aka-Bea: \nSimilarly, \"beri-nga\" \"good\" yields:\n\nThe prefixes are,\n\nBody parts are inalienably possessed, requiring a possessive adjective prefix to complete them, so one cannot say \"head\" alone, but only \"my, or his, or your, etc. head\".\n\nThe basic pronouns are almost identical throughout the Great Andamanese languages; Aka-Bea will serve as a representative example (pronouns given in their basic prefixal forms):\n'This' and 'that' are distinguished as \"k-\" and \"t-\".\n\nJudging from the available sources, the Andamanese languages have only two cardinal numbers — one and two — and their entire numerical lexicon is one, two, one more, some more, and all.\n\nAs an example, we give part of a creation myth in Oko-Juwoi, reminiscent of Prometheus:\nLiterally:\nTranslated (by Portman):\n"}
{"id": "3309822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3309822", "title": "Oxford Franciscan school", "text": "Oxford Franciscan school\n\nThe Oxford Franciscan school was the name given to a group of scholastic philosophers that, in the context of the Renaissance of the 12th century, gave special contribution to the development of science and scientific methodology during the High Middle Ages. This group includes such names as Robert Grosseteste, Roger Bacon, Duns Scotus and William of Ockham as well as Thomas of York, John Peckham, and Richard of Middleton.\n\nRobert Grosseteste, was the founder of the Oxford Franciscan school. He was the first scholastic philosophers to fully understand Aristotle's vision of the dual path of scientific reasoning. Concluding from particular observations into a universal law, and then back again: from universal laws to prediction of particulars. Grosseteste called this \"resolution and composition\". Further, Grosseteste said that both paths should be verified through experimentation in order to verify the principles. These ideas established a tradition that carried forward to Padua and Galileo Galilei in the 17th century.\n\nUnder the tuition of Grosseteste and inspired by the writings of Arab alchemists who had preserved and built upon Aristotle's portrait of induction, Bacon described a repeating cycle of \"observation\", \"hypothesis\", \"experimentation\", and the need for independent \"verification\". He recorded the manner in which he conducted his experiments in precise detail so that others could reproduce and independently test his results — a cornerstone of the scientific method, and a continuation of the work of researchers like Albatenius.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19487586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19487586", "title": "Pleading in English Act 1362", "text": "Pleading in English Act 1362\n\nThe Pleading in English Act 1362 (\"36 Edw. III c. 15\"), often rendered Statute of Pleading, was an Act of the Parliament of England. The Act complained that because the Norman French language was largely unknown to the common people of England, they had no knowledge of what was being said for or against them in the courts, which used Law French. The Act therefore stipulated that \"all Pleas which shall be pleaded in [any] Courts whatsoever, before any of his Justices whatsoever, or in his other Places, or before any of His other Ministers whatsoever, or in the Courts and Places of any other Lords whatsoever within the Realm, shall be pleaded, shewed, defended, answered, debated, and judged in the English language, and that they be entered and inrolled in Latin\".\n\nPrior to the Norman conquest of England in 1066, traditional common law in England had been discussed in the vernacular since time immemorial, and had been written in the Germanic vernacular (Old English) since c. 600 following the Anglo-Saxon invasion of Britain and beginning with the law code of Æthelberht of Kent. Following the Norman conquest, the language of the latest conquerors was used – Anglo-Norman French (which developed into Law French) was used for pleadings, and Latin was used in writing. The fourteenth century saw a decline in Law French, hence the Pleading in English Act, which marked the beginning of modern Legal English. \n\nSome 50 years later English became the language of official government in the form of Chancery Standard, during the reign of Henry V (1413 to 1422).\n\nThe statute was repealed by the Statute Law Revision Act 1863 and the Statute Law (Ireland) Revision Act 1872.\n\n"}
{"id": "7169806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7169806", "title": "Public opinion of the 2006 Thai coup d'état", "text": "Public opinion of the 2006 Thai coup d'état\n\nPublic opinion of the 2006 Thailand coup d'état was diverse. An initial public opinion poll showed support for the coup, although the junta banned subsequent polls. Bangkok residents displayed kindness to soldiers who had seized control of key positions. The response of activists and academics was mixed, and ranged from support for the junta to harsh condemnations. Several public protests against the coup were organized, despite junta ban on demonstrations. In subsequent weeks, condemnation of the coup transformed into criticism of the junta-appointed government of Surayud Chulanont.\n\nOn Wednesday, 20 September 2006, Suan Dusit Rajabhat University published the result of a poll of 2,019 people. The results were that 84 percent supported the coup d'état, and 75 percent believed the coup would \"improve politics\". Only 5 percent believe it will make politics worse. This should be contrasted with a nationwide poll taken in July that found that 49 people of the people would vote for Thaksin's party in the cancelled October election. Starting Thursday, 21 September, the junta ordered the media to stop publicizing the results of public opinion against the coup.\n\nMany of the students at the country's prestigious Chulalongkorn University were of the same mind the day after the coup. \"It may have been an authoritarian, unconstitutional and undemocratic move, but Thailand will emerge stronger out of this and its democratic institutions will strengthen in the long run,\" said Wipat, an economics student \n\n\"The Nation\" noted that local reaction was largely subdued. Although the Bangkok middle class was gladdened by the coup, Thaksin's rural supporters lacked real leaders to register strong voices of dissent.\n\nIn the days following the coup, many Thai people in Bangkok and surrounding area supported the soldiers in their positions by bringing food, drinks, and flowers. In the following days, the presence of M-41/A tanks became an attraction for Thai adults and children as well as foreign tourists queuing up to take photos. At the Royal Plaza, a particularly big crowd turned the place into a temple fair with food vendors. Some schools have taken students on tours of the area \n\nSoldiers were heartened by warm public response. A soldier who agreed with the coup although he said it wasn't democratic said \"I talked to people protesting against Thaksin Shinawatra who said they could do anything and would sacrifice their lives. If that happened—and officers had to suppress the chaos—the loss would be greater\". He added \"We have our own democracy. We are all under His Majesty the King and people still have faith in the monarch. The military has a duty to protect the country, the religion and the King\"\n\nOn Friday, a group of lecturers and students from Rajamangala University of Technology Phra Nakhon rallied briefly in front of the Army head office to call on their counterparts from Chulalongkorn and Thammasat universities not to be opposed to the coup leaders.\n\nFormer Senator Kraisak Choonhavan praised the coup, saying \"This is the first coup where I don't have to watch my back. All day Wednesday I gave interviews to Western media [who asked], what about democracy? So I would begin by telling about four years of human rights violations, abuse of power and uncaring of Parliamentary processes. I was amazed the lengthy explanation fell on deaf ears.\" Thailand's last coup in 1991 had deposed, arrested, and seized the assets of Kraisak's father, former Premier Chatichai Choonhavan.\n\nThe Campaign for Popular Democracy, which coordinates 32 civic groups, 6 universities and 169 NGOs, came out in support of the coup. CPD Secretary-General and People's Alliance for Democracy spokesperson Suriyasai Katasila blamed the deposed government, stating \"Thaksin was wrong to stay on and lead the country into a political deadlock. It resulted in military action.\"\n\nSeveral Thai people in New York City demonstrated outside the UN showing support for the coup.\n\nAnand Panyarachun, one of Thailand's most respected intellectuals, head of drafting committee of the 1997 Constitution, and former coup-installed Prime Minister, noted his criticism of the coup in an interview with the Far Eastern Economic Review (italics added):\n\nPasuk Pongpaijitr, a prominent anti-Thaksin academic, noted\n\nNobel Prize laureate Wole Soyinka cancelled his keynote speech for the annual S.E.A. Write Awards Ceremony at the Oriental Hotel in protest against the coup.\n\nThe vice president of the Thammasat University Student Union stated on 20 September that it is holding talks with representatives of student unions from other universities in order to prepare a response. A unified response was not made.\nThe Political Satire Group of Thammasat University erected a large sign at Rangsit Center protesting the coup.\nA student group, the \"News Center for Student Activities\" also issued a statement condemning the coup, saying it was \"anti-democratic and truly dictatorial\". The group urged the Thai people to wear black to mourn the death of Thai democracy and to refrain from co-operating with the \"military junta\".\n\nReports on the numbers, extent and nature of public demonstrations against the coup and the military government are often contingent on national media whose freedom of speech is limited by the censure imposed by the CDR.\nOrganised local opposition to the coup was muted, due to a military ban against protests. International protests against the coup were scattered, with a group of anti-coup demonstrators claiming to have protested in front of the Thai Consulate in New York City.\n\nActivist Chalard Worachat and former MP Thawee Kraikup held a protest against the junta at the Democracy Monument. Thawee held up a sign saying \"Fasting in Protest Against the Destroyer of Democracy.\" Military forces arrived soon afterwards and arrested Chalard at 12.30. Thawee refused to end his protest and was arrested 3 hours later. Thawee actively resisted arrest.\n\nA group calling itself the \"19 September Network against Coup d'Etat\" organized a petition signing at 18.00 on Friday 22 September 2006 at the Siam Paragon shopping center in Bangkok. The Network was joined by the Student Activity Information Resource (SAIR). A SAIR organizer claimed that he had submitted a petition at the office of the National Human Rights Commission, urging it to protect their right to gather at Siam Paragon.\n\nThe first public protest after the coup attracted between 20 and 100 protesters, depending on the source.\n\nIt occurred in front of Siam Center on the evening of Friday 22 September 2006. Nobody was arrested but a deputy commander said: \"police had recorded the protest on video and would examine the tape to see if protesters had broken martial law forbidding an assembly of more than five people for political purposes.\" It is unknown whether the police or junta will later arrest those it has recorded breaking martial law on video. Demonstrators wore black to mourn the death of democracy, and urged people who opposed the coup to also wear black in protest. Signs included \"No to Thaksin. No to coup\" and \"Don't call it reform - it's a coup\". One poster depicted the Democracy Monument with the caption \"On vacation again\". Among the protesters was political scientist Giles Ungphakorn who noted, \"We believe we speak for a significant number of Thais who are too worried or too afraid to speak.\" The protest was not reported on Thai television channels.The Independent reported that when the first protester, a female student, began reading out a statement, armed police forced their way through the crowd and grabbed her. The newspaper also reported that a police officer jabbed a gun into her stomach and told her: \"You're coming with us.\" The protesters tried to hold the woman back, but her fate is unknown.\n\nThe second public protest against the coup occurred on Monday 25 September 2006 attracted between 50-60 protesters. It was held at 5pm at Thammasat University. The protest included a political discussion on \"Why we must resist the coup\", and was organized by the \"Dome Daeng (Red Dome)\" group of Thammasat University, the \"Chula Students for Liberty\" group, and students from Mahidol, Ramkhamhaeng and Kasetsart universities and King Mongkut's Institute of Technology. \"If they [the military] arrest or harm us, we won't fight back, but it will show that their talk about political reform is not for real,\" said Uchaen Cheangsane, an organizer of the \"Dome Daeng\" group. \"The choice in our world is not just between Thaksin or tanks,\" said Arunwana Sanitkawathee, a Thammasat journalism student who attended the protest. The one-hour rally featured a banner mocking the \"Council of Demented and Ridiculous Military\"; there was no presence of uniformed police officials.\n\nA protest cum political discussion at Chulalongkorn University attracted about 100 people. Speakers included Giles Ungphakorn, Prapas Pintobtaeng, and Sirote Klampaiboon. During the protest, Prapas told the audience that villagers in Pak Mool of Ubon Ratchathani province had recently been raided by the military looking for evidence that the villagers (who had previously protested regarding the environment) had received support from the Thai Rak Thai party.\nGiles criticized supporters of the coup, noting that \"Those academics who are fake libertarians and fake democrats are telling students they must accept the legitimacy of dictators because we have no other choice. But dictatorship cannot give birth to democracy.\" Pattawit Thambutdee, a political science student at Chulalongkorn compared the coup to an act of burning a flower garden to remove the weeds. \"Nobody can guarantee that this will be the last [coup], and it will be hard to grow the garden back again,\" said Pattawit. The group vowed to stage more discussions and protests.\n\nOn 14 October 2006, the 33rd anniversary of the mass movement that rejected the military government of Thanom Kittikachorn, 300 protesters marched along Rajdamnoen Avenue from Thammasat University to Democracy Monument. Marchers ranged in age from toddlers to some around 70 years of age. The protesters held a candle-lit vigil when they arrived at Democracy Monument.\n\nFour law lecturers at Thammasat University issued a statement condemning the coup makers for \"disrespecting the will of the people\". The groups, led by well-known law lecturer Vorajaet Phakeerat, added that the forced nullification of the 1997 People's Constitution also destroyed the social contract and was \"unacceptable\".\n\nAn active online petition organized by Thongchai Winichakul, of the University of Wisconsin–Madison, was also set up at the PetitionOnline website to urge the junta not to arrest or harm protesters. Many people of influence have signed the petition so far, including Giles Ungphakorn and Chalong Soontravanich of Chulalongkorn University, Kasian Tejapira of Thammasat University, Viroj Na Ranong of the TDRI, and Duncan McCargo of the University of Leeds.\n\n"}
{"id": "1188832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1188832", "title": "Ring 2", "text": "Ring 2\n\n\"Ring\" was originally a novel written by Koji Suzuki; its sequel, \"Rasen\" (a.k.a. \"Spiral\"), was also adapted into a film as the sequel to \"Ring\". However, due to the poor response to \"Rasen\", \"Ring 2\" was made as a new sequel to \"Ring\", not based on Suzuki's works, and thus ultimately ignores the story of \"Rasen\".\n\n\"Ring 2\" takes place a couple of weeks after the first film, directly continuing the story and features most of the cast from \"Ring\" reprising their roles.\n\nAfter the body of Sadako Yamamura is retrieved from a well, her uncle Takaishi is summoned by police to identify her. Detective Omuta explains to Takaishi that forensics concluded Sadako may have survived in the well for thirty years. Forensics experts reconstruct her body, giving it to Takaishi, who gives his niece a burial at sea, hoping to be free from the guilt he has carried since her mother Shizuko committed suicide because of his actions. The police search for Reiko Asakawa following the sudden death of her ex-husband Ryuji Takayama and her father Koichi a week later. Mai Takano, Ryuji’s university assistant, investigates his death, visiting Reiko’s news office where her colleague Okazaki joins Mai in her search for answers. They find a burnt out videotape in Reiko’s apartment, Mai sensing Reiko’s father died the same way as Ryuji.\n\nInvestigating the urban legend of the cursed videotape, Okazaki meets a high school student Kanae Sawaguchi, who gives him a copy of the tape but admits she watched it herself. She begs Okazaki to watch the tape before the week is up, but he chickens out and hides his copy in his desk drawer at work.\n\nMai and Okazaki go to a mental hospital to speak to Masami Kurahashi, a friend of Reiko’s niece Tomoko, but learn she is both mute and has a phobia of televisions, having witnessed Tomoko’s death. They meet Doctor Oisho Kawajiri, Masami’s doctor, and a paranormal researcher, who is trying to expel the psychic energy within Masami through experimentation. Mai steps out for some air, encountering Masami, whose presence causes Sadako to materialise on a television and terrify the patients.\n\nMai finds Reiko’s son Yoichi alone in a shopping mall before his mother appears. Mai learns Yoichi has been mute since his father and grandfather’s deaths and his psychic abilities intensified, and Reiko asks if Kawajiri can help. Returning to the hospital, Mai, Okazaki, and Detective Omuta observe Kawajiri’s experiment to exorcise the psychic energy from Masami by projecting her mental imagery onto a blank tape. However, it causes the cursed videotape’s imagery to appear, killing Masami, and Mai destroys the recording. Upon learning Kanae has died from the curse, Mai surrenders Reiko and Yoichi to the authorities. Realising the two are to be separated, Mai telepathically warns Yoichi, who escapes with Reiko, who is consequentially hit by a truck. Okazaki attempts to delete his interview with Kanae, only for her ghost to materialise and haunt him.\n\nMai and Yoichi travel to Oshima Island and stay in the Yamamura Inn. Yoichi has a nightmare, causing Shizuko's and a young Sadako’s ghosts to appear before Mai wards them away. Dr. Kawajiri arrives in the night, offering to exorcise Yoichi as he tried with Masami, with Mai volunteering to act as a conduit to expel Sadako’s hatred into a swimming pool, water being able to neutralise the energy. However, the attempt turns frightening, Sadako’s coffin appearing in the pool. Takaishi drowns himself to stop Sadako, while Kawajiri goes insane and commits suicide by diving into the pool carrying electrical equipment.\n\nMai and Yoichi fall into the water, appearing inside the well. Ryuji’s ghost appears, absorbing Sadako’s rage from his son, and summons a rope that will guide Mai to safety as long as she doesn’t look down. Mai ends up doing so, causing Sadako’s ghost to appear, who scales the well only to cryptically ask, “Why is it only you were saved?”, before falling back into the well. Mai and Yoichi emerge in the pool, free of their fear. While Okazaki is institutionalised, a nurse takes a picture of him. As she leaves the room she notices something in the photo, seemingly shocked; behind Okazaki is Kanae’s laughing spirit looking for revenge.\n\n\n\"Ring 2\" was released in Japan on January 23, 1999 where it was distributed by Toho. It was released on a double bill with the film \"Shikoku\". The film was released directly to video in the United States on August 23, 2005 by DreamWorks. It was one of the highest grossing Japanese films of 1999, earning 2.1 billion yen on its theatrical release.\n\n\"Variety\" referred to the film as a \"very different beast\" than the \"Ring\", with \"less atmosphere and more genre shocks\". The review stated that the film \"notably fails to build on the first movie's wonderfully nasty final scene\" and is \"progressively more conventional with no special visual style or under-the-skins frissons.\"\n\nAs a result of the film's popularity, one of the film's cast members, Kyoko Fukada (role of Kanae Sawaguchi), was offered a recording contract with Pony Canyon (the label that handled the releases of the film's soundtrack and its accompanying single), and her debut single was released by Pony Canyon on May 19, 1999.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22478426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22478426", "title": "Rock art of the Iberian Mediterranean Basin", "text": "Rock art of the Iberian Mediterranean Basin\n\nThe group of over 700 sites of prehistoric Rock art of the Iberian Mediterranean Basin, also known as Levantine art, were collectively declared a World Heritage Site by UNESCO in 1998. The sites are in the eastern part of Spain and contain rock art dating to the Upper Paleolithic or (more likely) Mesolithic periods of the Stone Age. The art consists of small painted figures of humans and animals, which are the most advanced and widespread surviving from this period, certainly in Europe, and arguably in the world, at least in the earlier works. It is notable for the number of places included, the largest concentration of such art in Europe. Its name refers to the Mediterranean Basin; however, while some sites are located near the sea, many of them are inland in Aragon and Castile-La Mancha; it is also often referred to as Levantine Art (meaning \"from Eastern Spain\", not the Levant region).\n\nThere has been much debate over the dating of Levantine paintings, and whether they belong to the Mesolithic, the end of the Paleolithic, or the Neolithic; they clearly represent a very different style from the much more famous Art of the Upper Paleolithic in caves on either side of the Pyrenees, but yet may well show continuity with it. According to UNESCO, the oldest art in the World Heritage Site is from 8,000 BC, and the most recent examples from around 3500 BC. The art therefore spans a period of cultural change. It reflects the life of people using primarily hunter-gatherer economic systems, \"who gradually incorporated Neolithic elements into their cultural baggage\". Later scenes show men leading horses, and some cattle shown may be domesticated. \nThe chronology of Levantine Art overlaps with that of Iberian schematic art, and examples of both types of art can be found at some sites. Equally some sites continued to attract visitors in later periods, as shown by inscriptions in the Iberian language and Latin, for example at the Caves of El Cogul; these may have been associated with repainting of figures.\n\nThe paintings seem to have been produced after an influx of population from North Africa had mixed with the populations remaining from earlier periods in Iberia.\n\nLevantine Art was first discovered in Teruel in 1903. The Spanish prehistorian Juan Cabre was the first to study this art, defining it as a regional Palaeolithic art. Assessment as Palaeolithic was challenged for various reasons including the fact that no glacial fauna was depicted. Antonio Beltrán Martínez and others place the beginning of this art in the Epipaleolithic or Mesolithic, placing its heyday in the Neolithic period. Accepting a post-Paleolithic age for the art, Ripio devised a new chronological scheme in the 1960s, dividing the art into four stages:naturalistic, stylized static, stylized dynamic, and final phase of transition to the schematic.\n\nThe art appears over a wide area, and was created over a period of several thousand years; it is widely accepted that it shows stylistic and thematic development that reflects a long evolution, at least some local variety, and changes in way of life, though agreement on the details of this development is a continuing process. \nThe artists appear to have used feathers, in a relatively complex painting technique, compared to the art of the Upper Paleolithic, that produced relatively simple figures. Figures are often outlined, apparently after the main body was painted. Some figures are shallowly engraved rather than painted. The figures are relatively small, between about high, and in one or two colours. The paint was generally very thin, using mineral earths (often reddish) or charcoal, and the paintings are preserved by a very thin transparent layer of limescale forming over them from water dripping down the wall.\nSome figures have more than one coat of paint, which has led to claims that they were repainted after long periods, though this seems not universally accepted.\n\nThe human figure, which is rare in Paleolithic art, acquires great importance in Levantine Art. The human figure is frequently the main theme, and when it appears in the same scene as animals, the human figure runs towards them. The painting known as The Dancers of Cogul is a good example of movement being depicted. The most common scenes by far are of hunting, and there are scenes of battle and dancing, and possibly agricultural tasks and managing domesticated animals. In some scenes gathering honey is shown, most famously at Cuevas de la Araña en Bicorp (illustrated below). Humans are naked from the waist up, but women have skirts and men sometimes skirts or gaiters or trousers of some sort, and headdresses and masks are sometimes seen, which may indicate rank or status in a way compared by one researcher to North American Plains Indians; figures sometimes seem to have a deliberate element of caricature. Some war scenes distinguish between the sides in terms of physical appearance, or dress and weapons, though the interpretation of this is uncertain. Within one side, figures of greater importance may be indicated by more carefully painted figures with \"exaggerated calf muscles and elongated thighs\", or by pantaloons that are \"tufted\" at the ankle; the ordinary \"infantry\" are shown as mere \"stick figures\". \nThere is a much better developed sense of composition in group subjects than in Paleolithic art, and animals running are shown in the \"flying gallop\" convention that would last in art until after the invention of photography. Human figures are also shown with very wide strides, or in a \"flying running\" posture with legs up to 180 degrees apart. The scenes depicted are often moments of drama; dead and dying men and animals are often shown, and sometimes battles between humans, which can include up to 44 figures. Scenes of human execution by archers and in one case by hanging also seen; these scenes of conflict seem to come from the later periods of painting, and from a more limited area \"around the Gasulla and Valltota gorges\" in the province of Castellón.\n\nThe archer's bow is given great prominence, as the top weapon of the period; some bows are very large. To solve the problem of how to convey the distance between an archer and his distant prey, some sites use a convention of showing the trail of the hunted animal, a sophisticated and effective solution. Some scenes with numbers of armed men appear to represent dances, and women are also shown dancing in other scenes, which they seem to have done with their feet still and using only arm and upper-body movements. A famous dance scene at the Caves of El Cogul shows eleven women in skirts circling a naked man shown with an erect phallus.\n\nIn the representation of the human body there are drawings of heads with certain characteristics: the pear-shaped, hemispherical and conical.\nThe top half of the human body is shown naked. Sometimes a kind of trousers are worn; sometimes the genitals are seen and there are phallic representations.\nThe tools represented in Levantine Art are usually arrows, sticks, quivers and bags, and ropes, perhaps used as lassos or trip-ropes. These objects are always associated with the human figure, except for arrows, which may appear lying around as though shots that missed.\nThere is no depiction of landscape, and very little treatment of vegetation. An interesting exception is a depiction of mushrooms (possibly \"Psilocybe hispanica\") at Selva Pascuala.\nAnimals, however, are very often represented, especially large mammals that are suitable prey for hunting, or that became domesticated (though they may not have been so yet); birds, fish (even near the coast) and insects are rarely shown, apart from the occasional spider and bees in honey-gathering. Some of the animals depicted are identifiable as belonging to species we can see in the present day, and the relative frequency of animal species shown has been used as evidence for dating. Some animals have been interpreted as exotic Ice Age species now extinct in Europe, but this is controversial. Some animals appear to have been overpainted to change their species, perhaps reflecting changes in fauna. The main species shown include:\n\n\nAnimals appear singly or in groups. A curious feature of the representation of animals is that they are generally drawn in profile but with horns and hooves at the front.\n\nThe paintings may have meanings related to religion or at least \"hunting magic\", though it is also possible to see them as purely celebrations of a way of life, though including depictions of ceremonies that are religious.\n\nThe World Heritage Site includes rock art across an area which stretches from the Pyrenees to the province of Granada, falling within the territory of the autonomous communities of Catalonia, Aragon, Castile-La Mancha, Murcia, Valencia and Andalusia. It was declared a \"Bien de Interés Cultural\" in 1985.\n\nThe art is commonly found in rock shelters (protected by a natural ledge) and shallow caves in which sunlight can penetrate easily. There is no clear preference as to what part of the rock shelter is used for art, it can be placed high or half-way up the walls. The sites were not used for habitation, and lack the organic remains of hearths and rubbish deposits which would help dating. Many sites are heavily decorated with figures superimposed, while other apparently suitable locations nearby have no images at all. The sites are often in ravines in steep valleys that would be relatively little use to farmers, but perhaps ideal for hunting by ambush and stampeding animals into a dead end.\n\nIn general the state of conservation is poor. However, various inititiatives have been undertaken to protect the sites at a local level. For example, the municipality of Villar del Humo has designated a cultural park.\n\nThis is a collection of 727 rock shelters, caves, or ravine walls (as listed by UNESCO) that contain a figurative representation, or geometrical design. The sites are distributed as follows among the 16 provinces in the 6 regions already mentioned:\n\nThe Parliament of Andalusia approved in 2006 to request the inclusion of rock art of the Provinces of Málaga and Cádiz to a Tentative List.\n\n\n\n(in Spanish)\n\n"}
{"id": "39466181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39466181", "title": "SUD Salon Urbain de Douala", "text": "SUD Salon Urbain de Douala\n\nThe SUD Salon Urbain de Douala (meaning South - Urban Festival of Douala) is a triennial festival of public art and contemporary art organised in Douala, Cameroon. The festival had its first edition in 2007 and it is promoted by the art centre and cultural organisation doual'art.\n\nThe SUD Salon Urbain de Douala was announced during the \"Ars&Urbis International Symposium\" organised in Douala in 2005 by doual'art; the Ars&Urbis focussed on the relationship between art and urban transformations and it was created as a preparatory research gathering for the SUD. At the end of 2005 is established in Rotterdam the iStrike Foundation (officially registered in 2006), which will contribute to the start-up of the SUD and its first edition as a European office of doual'art. doual'art and iStrike Foundation organize together in 2007 the \"Ars&Urbis International Workshop\", an event to produce and collect documentation about Douala and its cultural scene, which will be published in the book \"Douala in Translation. A View of the City and its Creative Transformative Potentials\".\n\nThe first edition of the SUD Salon Urbain de Douala takes place as planned in December 2007 with the support among others of Arts Collaboratory, Mondriaan Foundation and the Prince Claus Fund. In 2008 the theme of \"water\" is chosen for the SUD Salon Urbain de Douala 2010. Meanwhile, a series of projects are developed within the frame of \"Liquid Projects\".\n\nIn 2009 takes place the \"Ars&Urbis Curatorial Meeting\", at the end of which Simon Njami is announced as new artistic director of the SUD 2010. In December 2010 the second edition of the SUD Salon Urbain de Douala took place in Douala.\n\nThe SUD Salon Urbain de Douala is structured into a triennial programme which produced site-specific ephemeral and permanent artworks located in different districts and neighborhoods of the city of Douala. The programme involves all the activities of doual'art and it includes a programme of artist-in-residence, exhibitions, the recurrent event \"Ars&Urbis\", a meeting and think tank around the relationship between art and urban transformations and of course the triennial festival meant to give visibility to the public art produced and involve a wider public.\n\n\nThe first edition of the SUD Salon Urbain de Douala took place in Douala between 9 and 16 December 2007, and it is promoted by doual'art in collaboration with the iStrike Foundation. The festival produces performances, installations and permanent artworks.\n\nThe performances are\n\nThe public art temporary installations are\n\nThe permanent public art produced are\n\nThe documentation of the event is prepared during the \"Ars&Urbis International Workshop\" and it is published in the book \"Douala in Translation\" presented at the opening of the festival. The first edition of the SUD 2007 is presented in the website of the Sawa people in an interview to Marilyn Douala Bell.\n\nThe second edition of the SUD Salon Urbain de Douala took place in Douala between 4 and 11 December 2010, and was sponsored by doual'art in collaboration with ICU art projects. The festival produced performances, installations and permanent artworks.\n\nThe 3rd edition from 3 to 10 December 2013, SUD2013, entitled \"Douala metamorphoses\", encouraged artists to transform the collective space, to work on the physical evolution of the common shared city sites and to liberate and create poles of encounters.\n\nThe theme of the 4th edition of the SUD2017 is \"The human dimension\" and will take place from 5 to 10 December 2017.\n\nIn a context of strong dehumanization and disempowerment of youth and adults, doual'art hopes by this 4th edition to mark the city with artworks which interpret the Universal Declaration of the Human Rights and to start a dialog that helps to share ideas on a better way of living together.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55783363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55783363", "title": "San Agustín culture", "text": "San Agustín culture\n\nThe San Agustín culture is an archaeological culture found in what is now Colombia. Several hundred monolithic sculptures have been found, dating from the 33rd century BCE to the 7th century BCE. There is an ongoing scientific study into the culture's origins and nature. For its period, the San Agustín culture displays considerable development in agriculture, ceramics, goldsmithing, and sculptural art.\n\nThe differences between objects, clothing, and sculptures have led archaeologists to hypothesize that the necropolis of San Agustín was a location where several South American groups from distant regions brought their high-status dead to be buried. The site of the culture lies mostly within the Parque Arqueológico Nacional de Tierradentro and the San Agustín Archaeological Park.\n\nSan Agustín is a Colombian culture that dates back to the thirty-third century BCE. The culture is situated in a mountainous region in southern Colombia at the base of the Colombian Massif. The region consists of undulating hills and inclined planes that descend into narrow and deep canyons. In the area of San Agustín, the rugged landscape creates a succession of climates.\n\nThe area where the Pre-Columbian relics are located corresponds to the current municipalities of San Agustín, Isnos and Saladoblanco. Similar finds have also been identified near the slope that faces the Amazon, especially near the town of Santa Rosa del Caquetá. Much of this area is still unexplored, particularly the areas that ascend to the Valley of the Popes, which is covered by dense jungle that has only recently began to be cleared by settlers.\n\nStatues and tombs appear as ceremonial centers, isolated from each other. Historical tradition has bestowed these places with names such as Mesitas, Lavapatas, Ullumbe, Alto de los Ídolos, Alto de las Piedras, Quinchana, El Tablón, La Chaquira, La Parada, Quebradillas and Sinks Some are lined with large slabs with monolithic sarcophagi inside and are covered with artificial mounds that reach up to in diameter and in height. Others contain statues over in height and several tons in weight. The most outstanding lithic work is called \"Fuente de Lavapatas\", in the rocky bed of the ravine of the same name, where there is an elaborate ceremonial fountain with three pools and numerous serpentine and batracomorphic figures in low relief, surrounded by tiny channels through which water flows. It has been suggested that the site was dedicated to the worship of aquatic deities and to the practice of healing ceremonies.\n\nThe first information about the archaeological ruins of San Agustín appears in the work \"Wonders of Nature\" by the Mallorcan missionary Fray Juan de Santa Gertrudis, of the Observant Order, who visited the place several times in 1756. His travel chronicle, began in Cartagena de Indias and finished in Lima, remained unpublished in Palma de Mallorca until 1956, when a copy of the manuscript was sent to Colombia and published the same year.\n\nArchaeological research has reconstructed much of the settlement in upper Magdalena. It is believed that it relied on farming corn, peanuts, chontaduro (Guilielma gasipaes), and cassava, in addition to fishing and hunting activities. Evidence of such activities has been verified in strata dating from the seventh century BCE. Their complex sculptural art, relating to cosmogonic and religious conceptions, contrasts markedly with the simple structure of their dwellings; these were circular in plan and covered with straw. The houses were built with decomposable materials, so little evidence of them has survived, except postholes from logs pushed into the ground. These logs formed walls and supported roofs, forming enclosures up to in diameter. A settlement was usually made up of several huts in close proximity. They contained stoves, which were made out of semi-rounded stones. There are traces of small workshops and waste dumps within or close to the houses. The orography of the region, characterized by gentle undulations of volcanic origin, delimited by the course of numerous streams and streams, determined a pattern of dispersed settlements, similar to that which persists in rural areas Columbia today.\n\nThe features that characterize the San Agustín culture at its height, between 300 CE to 800 CE, are: the development of lithic statuary; the construction of large embankments or terraces for the location of the necropolis; the construction of retaining walls; tombs covered with large stone slabs or artificial mounds crowned with funerary shrines; and ceremonial fountains carved into native rock. They are considered to indicate an advanced social and political stratification. The sculpture, in particular, indicates a specialization of work, given the degree of complexity achieved by its sculptors. In addition, differences in the structure of the tombs of the same site, without clear indications of a cultural sequence, suggest social stratification, since ceramics and other funerary items testify to their contemporaneity. Such stratification could be based on the difference between occupational groups and the political and religious hierarchy, consolidated in the formation of small lordships, a typical organization of most of the indigenous groups found by the Spaniards in the 16th century in the Andean region.\n\nIt is possible that the dispersion of lithic statuary in the San Agustín culture is explained by the existence of an organization structured on the basis of small family groups, linked together by religious ties. This could explain the variety of motifs and styles represented in the statues within an apparent morphological homogeneity. Shamanism or mohánismo could also play a role. The archeological evidence suggests that in this flourishing period of Augustinian culture, social organization was strongly influenced by warrior groups, and religious forms by solar deities and war. The statues of Mesitas A and B of the Archaeological Park seem to be the most authentic representation of this period. They appear guarding the entrance of tombs covered with large slabs, with monolithic sarcophagi inside.\n\nMore than three hundred statues have been found, most of them in an area delimited by the basins of the Magdalena, Bordones, Mazamorras and Sombrerillos rivers and the peaks of the Colombian Massif. The blocks in which they were carved are volcanic tuffs and lava andesites, some of large dimensions, up to more than four meters high and several tons in weight. With the exception of the neighboring region of Tierradentro (Cauca) such monumental sculpture is found in no other area of Columbia.\nThe general structure of the archaeological complex of San Agustín evidences some characteristic features, such as the homogeneity of certain elements and their continuity through the different periods, which speaks in favor of a cultural kinship of the different groups that lived there and of a long tradition of them. This is also suggested by elements such as ceramics and lithics, as well as in certain motifs represented in the sculptures, whose ancestral forms began at least in the 7th century BCE and persist, next to later ones, until the 16th century CE.\n\nIn the sculptures appear several animals linked to natural or productive phenomena. The sun, moon, lightning, rain and other natural phenomena are personified and expressed in the carvings. The deities appear anthropo-zoomorphized and closely associated with mortuary rites. The sun and the moon preside over the religious pantheon. The frequency of representation of the feline mouth in most of the sculptures is indicative of the cult of the jaguar, which seems to be one of the oldest and most widespread among the peoples that lived in the Andean area and that still persists in the aboriginal populations of the Amazon jungle. In other Andean archaeological cultures this element also characterizes many sculptural representations.\n\nMany of the sculptures are referred to as caryatids, because they are representations of warriors and support the ceilings of the great tombs in Mesitas A and B. Similar monoliths are found in the northwest mound of Mesita B and in the eastern and western mounds of Mesita A. These statues represent warriors, in a naturalistic way, adorned with special tiaras and carrying weapons: rounded throwing stones and shields. In other statues the shield is replaced by a short club, the macuahuitl referred to in the chronicles of the 16th century.\nMany of the anthropomorphic figures appear naked or with only with light clothing and ornaments, such as necklaces, bracelets, nose rings and earmuffs. This is curious, since the area of San Agustín is a region with a moderately temperate climate and this cools considerably as it ascends to the Valley of the Popes. However, several sculptures incorporate kilts and bark hats. Implements for spinning, such as spindle flywheels, are rare in the archeological record of the excavations so far carried out. Ornaments recovered are varied: necklaces of limestone and hard stone beads, these last of bluish green color, tubular, with longitudinal orifices; shell, seed, bone and gold beads; gold nosepieces, circular, laminated or in twisted wires, with horn or stone bead settings; solid gold earrings, featuring tiny eagles; gold headbands, earmuffs and other ornaments. They coincide with those observed on the statues.\n\nThe culture's ceramics are fundamentally monochromatic, made in an oxidizing atmosphere, by the winding system and with engobes of different ocher tones. Most of the items are small bowls, plates, tripod pots or high support cups. There are also large vessels, used for the storage of liquids or as funeral urns. The decoration is almost always incised, although negative painting also occurs, black on red, from the early phases of the culture, known as the Superior Formative. In the final period, or Recent, bicolor positive painting appears, as well as a grainy decoration.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "953081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=953081", "title": "Sericulture", "text": "Sericulture\n\nSericulture, or silk farming, is the cultivation of silkworms to produce silk. Although there are several commercial species of silkworms, \"Bombyx mori\" (the caterpillar of the domesticated silk moth) is the most widely used and intensively studied silkworm. Silk was believed to have first \nbeen produced in China as early as the Neolithic period. Sericulture has become an important cottage industry in countries such as Brazil, China, France, India, Italy, Japan, Korea, and Russia. Today, China and India are the two main producers, with more than 60% of the world's annual production.\n\nAccording to Confucian text, the discovery of silk production dates to about 2700 BC, although archaeological records point to silk cultivation as early as the Yangshao period (5000–3000 BC). In 1977, a piece of ceramic created 5400–5500 years ago and designed to look like a silkworm was discovered in Nancun, Hebei, providing the earliest known evidence of sericulture. Also, by careful analysis of archaeological silk fibre found on Indus Civilization sites dating back to 2450–2000 BC, it is believed that silk was being used over a wide region of South Asia. By about the first half of the 1st century AD it had reached ancient Khotan, by a series of interactions along the Silk Road. By 140 AD the practice had been established in India. In the 6th century the smuggling of silkworm eggs into the Byzantine Empire led to its establishment in the Mediterranean, remaining a monopoly in the Byzantine Empire for centuries (Byzantine silk). In 1147, during the Second Crusade, Roger II of Sicily (1095–1154) attacked Corinth and Thebes, two important centres of Byzantine silk production, capturing the weavers and their equipment and establishing his own silkworks in Palermo and Calabria, eventually spreading the industry to Western Europe.\n\nSilkworm larvae are fed with mulberry leaves, and, after the fourth moult, they climb a twig placed near them and spin their silken cocoons. The silk is a continuous filament comprising fibroin protein, secreted from two salivary glands in the head of each larva, and a gum called sericin, which cements the filaments.\nThe sericin is removed by placing the cocoons in hot water, which frees the silk filaments and readies them for reeling. This is known as the degumming process. The immersion in hot water also kills the silkworm pupa.\n\nSingle filaments are combined to form thread, which is drawn under tension through several guides and wound onto reels. The threads may be plied to form yarn. After drying, the raw silk is packed according to quality.\n\nThe stages of production are as follows:\n\n\nMahatma Gandhi was critical of silk production based on the Ahimsa philosophy \"not to hurt any living thing\". He also promoted \"Ahimsa silk\", made without boiling the pupa to procure the silk and wild silk made from the cocoons of wild and semi-wild silk moths. The Human League also criticised sericulture in their early single \"Being Boiled\". In the early 21st century the organisation PETA has campaigned against silk.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10170548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10170548", "title": "Sirens of TI", "text": "Sirens of TI\n\nThe Sirens of TI was a free nightly show provided by the Treasure Island Hotel and Casino on the Las Vegas Strip in Paradise, Nevada. The show entailed a group of sensual and tempting sirens engaging with a band of renegade pirates led by the infamous Blackbeard.\n\nThe show opens with Siren leader \"Sin\" Cinnamon narrating a warning about their power over the sea. Soon afterwards, the adventuring pirate Eros boards the Siren ship \"The Song\", after which he is discovered and overwhelmed by its crew. Eros is bound to the mast and demands his release, threatening the Sirens with the wrath of Captain Mack.\n\nMack and the pirate crew from \"The Bull\" sail into Sirens' Cove to rescue Eros. The Sirens exchange greetings with the \"salty crew\" of \"The Bull\" and Eros asks his crewmates to leave, as he is happy with his new arrangement. The pirates first fire a warning shot across the bow of \"The Song\", and then fire on the warehouse behind the Sirens' ship, which holds their closet. In retaliation, the Sirens use their power over the ocean to summon a storm to engulf \"The Bull\" and sink it to the bottom of the sea.\n\nAs \"The Bull\" sinks, Captain Mack orders his crew to abandon ship and vows vengeance. The Sirens force Eros to walk the plank, but he and the rest of the pirates soon climb aboard \"The Song\", where a second battle ensues. As the pirates finally realize they're no match for the Sirens, they decide to surrender and the deck of \"The Song\" turns into a 21st-century party.\nFrom 1993 to 2003, Treasure Island featured a battle between pirates aboard the \"Hispaniola\" (which later became the Sirens' ship, \"The Song\") and British sailors aboard \"HMS Britannia\" (later the pirate ship \"The Bull\"), ending in the sinking of \"HMS Britannia\". \"The Battle of Buccaneer Bay\" (in some sources, \"The Pirate Battle of Buccaneer Bay at Treasure Island\") ran for 16,334 shows.\n\nIn October 2003, \"The Sirens of TI\" replaced \"The Battle of Buccaneer Bay\", which was geared towards a younger audience and had been playing since Treasure Island opened on October 27, 1993. Director and choreographer Kenny Ortega created \"The Sirens of TI\" show, inspired by Homer's \"Odyssey\". Songwriter Emilio Estefan prepared the score and Travis Payne handled show choreography.\n\nThe show commemorated its fifth anniversary on October 21, 2008 when the street leading into the hotel/casino property was renamed from \"Buccaneer Boulevard\" to \"Sirens Cove Boulevard.\" At that time, the show was presented four times daily, at 7, 8:30, 10 and 11:30 p.m. Beginning November 3, 2008, the show was presented at 5:30, 7, 8:30 and 10 p.m. daily.\nOn October 20, 2013, the show was halted for what was intended to be a temporary closure until December 26, for the construction of retail space nearby. But in late November 2013, Treasure Island announced that the closure was permanent, surprising several cast members, and the space would be replaced by shops. The new shopping mall reduced the size of Sirens Cove by approximately one-third, which now features static ships and fountains with no performers.\n\nIn January 2018, Sirens Cove hosted the one-year anniversary party commemorating the worldwide launch of the mobile game \"One Piece Thousand Storm\", based on the hit manga series \"One Piece\".\n\nThe show featured a cast of sixteen sirens and fourteen pirates. When it started, the cast consisted of thirteen sirens and eleven pirates. It was estimated to cost $5 million per year.\n\nMore than eighty individual pieces of pyrotechnics were shot per show. Flame effects consumed of liquid propane per show. The sound system had more than 40,000 watts of power. The lagoon contained approximately of reverse-osmosis filtered and reclaimed water, which was deep at many points, extending to depths of at two pits. By 2011, over the course of 7,440 shows, 630,000 pieces of pyrotechnics had been detonated, of propane had been fired, and \"The Bull\" had traveled .\nThe original runtime for the show was 28 minutes. Dialogue and choreography tweaks shortened it to 18 minutes by 2005 to better match the patience of the standing crowd. The attendance for the premiere showing at 6 p.m. on October 26, 2003 was estimated at 5,000, double the standing capacity of 2,500; during the premiere, the crowd spilled from the sidewalk onto Las Vegas Boulevard, forcing the closure of several lanes. It had been viewed by more than 10 million over 4,749 performances by 2008, and nearly 17 million over 7,440 performances by 2011.\n\nSoon after its premiere, Martin Stein wrote \"Sirens is foundering and taking on water\" in his review for the \"Las Vegas Weekly\", adding \"the choreography is boring [and] all the action is far too small for a show in which the audience will often be across six lanes of traffic.\" Readers of the \"Las Vegas Review-Journal\" voted it the worst local attraction in 2004 and 2005. The \"Los Angeles Times\" advised readers to avoid the show, calling it \"dumb and a major pain to watch.\" Despite the negative feedback, the \"Las Vegas Weekly\" later collectively named \"Sirens\" and its pirate show predecessor \"Buccaneer Cove\" the eighth-greatest attraction in Las Vegas history in 2017. It was also named a \"must-see\" by Michelin.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "480295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=480295", "title": "Slush pile", "text": "Slush pile\n\nIn publishing, a Slush Pile is a set of unsolicited query letters or manuscripts that have either been directly sent to a publisher by an author, or which have been delivered via a literary agent representing the author who may or may not be familiar to the publisher. The responsibility of shifting through slush piles is usually reserved either to editor assistants or for outside contractors called publisher's readers or \"first readers\". If the reader finds something of interest and can convince a senior editor to run it, they may earn credit.\n\nMost agents and major publishing houses do not accept unsolicited manuscripts and slush piles on-average are usually regarded as undesirable in many literary circles due to the large number of both aspiring and former writers who often produce content of unsatisfactory quality. However, this is not always the case with many smaller publishers or independent editors who are often open both to inexperienced writers as well as formerly established writers - both of whom may be able to create original content for the publisher and potentially turn a profit.\n\nIn 2008 HarperCollins introduced a website, authonomy, to manage and exploit the slush pile from a web-based perspective. Website Youwriteon also acts as a slush pile filter for Random House, Orion Publishing Group and Bloomsbury Publishing.\n"}
{"id": "52996321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52996321", "title": "Smoking in East Timor", "text": "Smoking in East Timor\n\nSmoking in East Timor is highly common, with the country having a high percentage of smokers. An estimate 33% of the population smoke daily, with 61% of East Timorese men who use tobacco products regularly. Although it is required that packaging display warnings, this is rendered largely ineffective by the large amount of East Timorese adults who cannot read. There is very little restriction on Tobacco advertisement and it is common to see teachers and students smoking in school.\n\nA study in 2008 found that stress brought on from poverty and the struggle for independence significantly contributed towards youth smoking. Former President and independence activists Xanana Gusmão is himself a heavy smoker who said that cigarettes helped him and his colleges stay calm while they were fighting the Indonesians. As with neighboring Indonesia tobacco advertisement is prevalent and cigarettes are cheap, only around 25 cents per pack.\n\nIn November 2015 the East Timorese government promised tighter rules governing tobacco consumption.\n"}
{"id": "33646276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33646276", "title": "Strong and Prosperous Nation", "text": "Strong and Prosperous Nation\n\nStrong and Prosperous Nation () is a policy initiated by North Korean leader Kim Jong-il. The term first appeared in North Korean media in August 1998 in reference to Kim Jong-il having provided \"on-the-spot guidance\" in Chagang Province in February 1998. In an effort to build a “strong and prosperous” nation, North Korea focuses on four areas: ideology, politics, the military, and the economy. Kim Jong-il's son and successor Kim Jong-un declared 2012, the centennial of the birth of Kim Il-sung, as the year of Strong and Prosperous Nation.\n\nAccording to Victor Cha, the policy has been \"an utter failure in terms of the state's performance, with the one exception of building nuclear weapons\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2310058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2310058", "title": "Super Robot Monkey Team Hyperforce Go!", "text": "Super Robot Monkey Team Hyperforce Go!\n\nSuper Robot Monkey Team Hyperforce Go! (commonly known by its initialism, SRMTHFG) is an American/Japanese animated television series created by Ciro Nieli, one of the directors of \"Teen Titans\", and produced by Jetix Animation Concepts with animation being done by The Answer Studio (who would later work on the Cartoon Network original series \"\"). Set mainly on the fictional planet of Shuggazoom, the series follows the adventures of five cyborg monkeys and a human boy named Chiro as they struggle to protect their planet - and the rest of the universe - from the forces of evil. The show's music was composed by Jermey Swede (Power Rangers Turbo).\n\nThe Super Robot Monkey Team is set in Shuggazoom City, a city that takes up a good portion of its planet, named Shuggazoom. The rest of the planet is called \"The Zone of Wasted Years.\"\n\nThe main character is a boy named Chiro. When he was exploring the outskirts of the city, he stumbles upon a giant abandoned robot. Once inside, his curiosity gets the better of him, and he pulls on an old, untouched switch, thus awakening the five robotic monkeys that form the Super Robot Monkey Team Hyperforce. In the process, Chiro also fused himself with the Power Primate, allowing him to transform into the brave fighter and bold leader of the team. With the aid of the five Robot Monkeys: Sparx, Antauri, Gibson, Otto and Nova, their mission is to save Shuggazoom City from the Skeleton King, the main antagonist of the series.\n\nSince Chiro was not born a superhero, the five Robot Monkeys must train him, which ultimately results in him leading the team. The Robot Monkeys continue to train Chiro, as he fulfills his destiny as protector of the universe.\n\nWhen fighting the larger enemies, the Hyperforce uses the Super Robot, which can split into six separate vehicles. Its main attack, when combined as the whole robot, is Lasertron Fury, a powerful energy beam that is fired from its chest. The Super Robot also serves as Chiro and the Monkeys' headquarters and home.\n\nA boy initially hesitant in accepting his role as leader of the Hyperforce, but gradually comes to accept his destiny of becoming a defender of Shuggazoom and later the universe. He falls in love with a robot girl called Jinmay. He pilots the Torso Tank Driver 1, the torso of the Super Robot. Chiro's powers come from the Power Primate, an entity inside of him. Voiced by Greg Cipes.\n\nNTAR-11 (or Antauri, pronounced \"Antary\") is the black (later silver in Seasons 3-4) monkey and the team's second-in-command. Wise, serious, calm, collected, and deeply caring for his friends, he teaches Chiro how to control the Power Primate and gives spiritual advice to the rest of the Hyperforce. He spends most of his time either meditating or patrolling Shuggazoom City. Antauri pilots the Brain Scrambler 2, the head of the Super Robot. His main weapons are his Ghost Claws and Monkey Mind Scream. As the Silver Monkey, he can pass through walls, throw boomerangs, and use hidden spider legs. Voiced by Kevin Michael Richardson.\n\nSPRX-77 (or Sparx, pronounced \"Sparks\") is the red monkey, and the team's best pilot. He is very much the comedian of the group. But, he is still very brave and willing to protect his comrades at any cost. Though he is annoying to Nova, he still harbors feelings for her. This doesn't keep him from hitting on other females at times, even right in front of Nova. He never calls Chiro anything but \"Kid,\" except in select episodes. Sparx pilots the Fist Rocket 3, the right hand of the Super Robot. His main weapon are his Magnet Fists. He turned evil in the second-to-last episode \"Object of Hate\", but with the help of his friends, and a love confession from Nova, he turns good again in the last episode \"Soul of Evil\". Voiced by Corey Feldman.\n\nGBSN-23 (or Mr. Hal Gibson) is the blue monkey, and the team's science and medical officer. He prefers \"just 'Gibson'\". When answering scientific-related questions, he answers them with long, even confusing and boring, speeches, which are always interrupted by someone or something. He has trouble deciding if Otto, the team's mechanic, is a genius or an idiot. He despises bugs and someone who is smarter than him. Gibson pilots the Fist Rocket 4, the left hand of the Super Robot. His main weapon are his Cybovac Drill Fists, which contain a variety of different charges within them, giving him the widest choices of attacks. Voiced by Tom Kenny.\n\nNOVA-52 (or Nova) is the yellow monkey, the team's main fighter, and third in command. She was the only female on the team, until Jinmay became an honorary member, and has been known for her fiery attitude. She has a love-hate relationship with Sparx and eventually admits her feelings, claiming she loves him and saying that it's \"too much to lose him\", in the last episode. She also cares for Chiro as if he were a brother. Nova has an adversion to the cold thanks to the cruel training by Mandarin (The Monkey Team's former leader). Nova possesd a loving bond with The Alchemist (The Skeleton King's former human persona) in the past before she had her memory wiped. Nova pilots the Foot Crusher Cruiser 6, the right foot of the Super Robot. Her main weapons are her Robotic Fists. Voiced by Kari Wahlgren.\n\nOTTO-34 (or Otto) is the green monkey, and the team's mechanic. Although his talent with machines is unmatched, he is quite oblivious to everything else around him, but has an obsession with naming the monsters the team encounters. As the monkeys are robotic themselves, it is usually up to him repair any damages. He has a dream of being in the circus, more specifically becoming a trapeze artist. He also has a soft spot for anything young or smaller than him, as seen in \"The Stranded Seven\" when he gives the seemingly useless piece of metal on the end of his tail to a young cat-like character, whom he called \"Lil' guy.\" Otto pilots the Foot Crusher Cruiser 5, the left foot of the Super Robot. His main weapons are his Energy Saw Fists. He is voiced by Clancy Brown.\n\nAn evil cybernetic undead warlord/sorcerer residing in \"The Citadel of Bone\", a gigantic living spaceship made entirely out of bones filled with nightmarish creatures, who plots to rule the universe starting with Shuggazoom and is obsessed with finding out why Chiro is able to manipulate the Power Primate. The Skeleton King was once the Alchemist, a kindly master of the elements of science and magic whose soul was corrupted by The Dark Ones (an evil race of trans-dimensional entities), thus becoming their most loyal servant. Before the corruption could be completed, he created the Hyperforce to protect the cosmos from his own evil. The Skeleton King masterminded key events like the creation of The Pit of Doom and the corruption of the Power Primate to awaken one of The Dark Ones from Shuggazoom's core. During the climactic battle, Skeleton King's decapitated head merged with the unleashed Dark One to become the \"Skeleton King Worm\" and traveled across the universe, transforming once peaceful worlds into desolate wastelands in its wake. Eventually, the Hyperforce ended the Skeleton King Worm's rampage by destroying it before it could destroy another planet (Earth). \n\nAfter getting severed from the worm, however, Skeleton King's head was recovered from the depths of space by Mandarin and returned to Shuggazoom, where it was later stolen by the Skeletal Circle, a group of Skeleton King's mortal disciples led by Ma and Pa Shenko (Valeena's Parents), who thought to use the head's power to curse Shuggazoom City until they were interrupted by the Hyperforce. During the battle, the head was split in two to reveal a Crystal Skull which was collected by Mandarin and Valeena. It was revealed that the Crystal Skull was one of the elements needed to resurrect Skeleton King (along with objects such as The Alchemist's Robe, The Ice Crystal of Vengeance, The Fire of Hate, and The Soul of Evil), which led Mandarin and Valeena to team up and gather the objects across the planet with the Hyperforce attempting to stop them. The search ended in the \"Pit of Doom\" (the place where Skeleton King lost his original body), where Valeena was successful in resurrecting Skeleton King in a new form similar to Darth Vader. Upon his resurrection, he blasted Valeena into ash and raised a black castle of Formless Ooze within the Pit, which currently serves as a fortress for him and his undead army as he plans to wage war \"between the living and the dead\" on Shuggazoom City. He is voiced by Mark Hamill.\n\nThe orange monkey who originally lead the Hyperforce, he was the wisest out of all of the six monkeys, Although their job was to protect Shuggazoom City, Mandarin felt above serving his guardian and wanted to rule it. As a result, he was exiled from the team and into an off-world prison until his accidental release, triggered by a signal from one of his robotic gloves, which was found in a secret compartment in his old room by Chiro. He then joined forces with the Skeleton King, only to be replaced with a formless ooze replica of himself. The Mandarin replica would fill Mandarin's role in the series from then onwards. His weapons were a Plasma Sword Fist and Shield Fist. James Hong voices him.\n\nA Formless Ooze clone of Mandarin who the Skeleton King created to replace the original Mandarin, Mandarin 2 retains the memories, personality, and powers of his predecessor. Following his master's first death, he joined forces with Valeena to resurrect him, in which they were successful. After the Skeleton King killed Valeena (as a form of \"gratitude\"), Mandarin joined his master once more to aid him in waging a war between the living and the dead. His main weapons were original Mandarin's sword and shield, but later a claw hand and a large bone hand, the latter of which Gibson destroyed in Episode 52, thus making him nearly powerless. He is voiced by James Hong, who voices the original Mandarin.\n\nValeena Shanko (better known as the Skull Sorceress) was a member of the Skeletal Circle who was brought to Skeleton King by her caring but critical parents as a child to accept his full power. Unfortunately, Skeleton King's influence saw her fit to rule the Savage Lands from an abandoned ancient temple. Her first appearance is in the episode of Antauri's resurrection, where she had kidnapped Jinmay in an attempt to sacrifice her to the Skeleton King Worm but the Monkey Team interfered, freed Jinmay, and knocked Valeena off the temple edge and into a pit of ooze. She returns in later episodes near the end of the series run as one of the main villains. Later the team returned to Shuggazoom in \"The Ghosts of Shuggazoom\", later than she was revealed to be behind everyone turning into zombie like ghosts. She was defeated again and trapped inside of a necklace that Mandarin wears in the \"Night of Fear\" to show the Monkey Teams true fears. It is revealed in one of the episodes that her whole goal was to resurrect Skeleton King after his first defeat. She succeeded along with Mandarin, but as a token of \"gratitude\", Skeleton King blasted her into ashes. She was voiced by Hynden Walch.\n\nThe Formless are the monochrome skeleton-like creatures created from black ooze and act as the foot soldiers of the Skeleton King.\n\nGuardian Formless, more violent and dangerous, appear in Episode 27 and Episode 28. They belong to Valeena, the Skull Sorceress.\n\nA black and bulky looking, yet powerful robot made to personally serve the Skeleton King as his herald. It was later transformed into the powerful Skeleton King Droid as a result of having a piece of the Skeleton King's essence in it after taking parts of a probe that abducted it. Also voiced by Mark Hamill.\n\nA psychic being that serves the Skeleton King. He looks like an old man, except that his waist and below is an elevator-like protrusion instead of feet. He has the ability to transport anybody who comes into the elevator to a completely different spot. He disguised himself as an old man in an elevator, leaving many people inconspicuous. Voiced by Clancy Brown.\n\nA sad and lonely man who grew up with a robotic mother. He is a fan of the Hyperforce, and this fanaticism eventually turned into an obsession. In one episode he creates his own virtual world using an invention he created where he can manipulate anything he wants to his will and sucks Chiro into it, but he ends up having his own physical body sucked into the world, but he appears in a painting of him with the Hyperforce as you hear him laugh, assuming he is living out his dream. He is voiced by Jeffrey Combs.\n\nNow a disembodied brain, Professor Jakus Maezono was one of the human scientists who worked on the Prometheus Project and assisted in the creation of the Super Robot. He wanted to transfer his consciousness into the Prometheus Five model, thus allowing him to live forever as the ultimate super-weapon. Dr. Takeuchi, his friend and fellow scientist attempted to stop him but was killed in the process. Voiced by Dee Bradley Baker.\n\nA tiny monkey who acts as a spy for Skeleton King. He was originally presumed to be Jinmay's pet in the first episode, but he pins her down and opens up her chest, revealing that she is a robot. He fails Skeleton King and is taken away by a strange jack in the box looking robot with legs, but he appears in later episodes and with an eyepatch. He makes a brief cameo in Episode 42 in the Ranger 7 Moon Base Prison joyfully showing an artwork of the Skeleton King holding him. He is voiced by Gibson's voice actor Tom Kenny.\n\nA union of three monsters sent by the Skeleton King to scan Chiro's Power Primate.\n\nA seemingly friendly Wonder Fun Meat World manager. He first looks like a box carton in which you get at a restaurant to hold your food, and has three friends one being a meat cone, a shake, and a giant fries who mutate into strange zombie creatures. It is found out that he is planning to eat people by fattening them up, being an obvious tribute to \"Motel Hell\" and \"Soylent Green\". Also voiced by Kevin Michael Richardson. He is currently imprisoned in the Ranger 7 Moon Base Prison.\n\nAlso known as Duke Scrapperton, Grand Earl of the Mecha Realm. Once a mortal man who replaced every part of his body (except for his brain and what appears to be one remaining eye) with a mechanical part. He hovers over Shuggazoom in his first appearance in a giant scrap pile in space, and appears later in a floating Victorian style ship, and wearing a metal suit resembling a Victorian style general. He is voiced by Eric Idle.\n\nAlso known as the Mythic Lord of the Northern Ice, this gigantic frost demon was trapped in a cavern in the Sea of Ice outside Shuggazoom City until he encountered the Skeleton King, who offered to free him if he lent his power to freeze the city. Instead of freeing him, however, the Skeleton king imprisoned Morlath into his power and was able to use his power as a result. He was freed when the sceptre was destroyed during the Skeleton King's battle with Chiro and Antauri in the episode \"I, Chiro\". He later guarded the Ice Crystal of Vengeance (which was a piece of the Skeleton Kings essence) in season 4, only for it to be stolen by Valeena and Mandarin. He was soon afterwards destroyed by the Super Robot. He had a daughter, Ice Witch. Voiced by Kevin Michael Richardson.\n\nAntauri's teacher, works for the Skeleton King. He was part of a group of mages that protected the cosmos from a group of creatures called the Dark Ones which have been dormant in the center of many planets, but Skeleton King power is too powerful, so he had no choice but to obey him and is using the Power Primate to awaken the Dark One Worm but it leads to his demise by being blasted with the Power Primate from Chiro. Voiced by Michael York.\n\nA genie like alien creature who has the power to grant three wishes, and much like a genie, is set free when the three wishes are granted. Chiro first wishes that they had some real action, second Gibson is wished to Otto would be smarter, and the third and final wish is Sparx wishes for an anti-wigglenog bazooka but it ends up firing flowers because the rule is you cannot harm a Wigglenog or wish to cause harm to it. Otto outsmarts the Wigglenog and wishes they never met him after faking him out with one extra wish. The Wigglenog is voiced by John Kassir.\n\nThe Skeletal Circle was an underground cult consisting of normal Shuggazoom citizens who worships the Skeleton King. They consist of sorcerers & evil people. The cult would practice black magic & conjure vile spells using the Skeleton King's skull as a source for power. Ma & Pa Shanko, Valeena's parents & owners of the arcade in Shuggazoom, are the leaders of the cult & are voiced by Kari Wahlgren and Clancy Brown respectively. Valeena used to be a member, but she left when Ma & Pa Shanko chose her to accept the Skeleton King's powers. The cult only appeared in Episode 49. It is unknown what happened to the cult after Episode 49, but it is likely that the cult disbanded because they no longer practiced black magic, Valeena & Mandarin took the Skeleton King's skull, & Ma & Pa Shanko were arrested.\n\nA species of evil entities with the power to destroy creation that were created by an unknown cosmic force when the universe was young. While many were confined in the Netherworld, some of them are dormant in their planets' cores. They have so much evil that any organic life is painfully weakened in the Netherworld. \n\nA robot girl whom Chiro falls in love with. She becomes an official Hyperforce member and becomes the protector of Shuggazoom when the Hyperforce left to destroy the Dark Worm. She has pink hair and green eyes. She usually wears her green dress with a heart in the front and the back when she was an honorary member. Now she wears the same style as Chiro's but in dress form. When she called for help in Ghosts of Shuggazoom, she was wearing her original dress. She is voiced by Ashley Johnson.\n\nA team of television superheroes that Chiro idolizes. Super Quasar, the leader of the group, can emit solar energy from his visor. Aurora Six the stunning and single female member wields the Sun Gun. Johnny Sunspot, an older midget who looks like a young boy, uses special gloves to create and control black holes. They once worked under the Skeleton King, but eventually turned to the Hyperforce's side. Super Quasar was voiced by Keone Young Aurora Six voiced by Meredith Salenger and Johnny Sunspot was voiced by Tom Kenny. Johnny's voice is similar to SpongeBob SquarePants from the titular show of the same name as both are voiced by Kenny himself.\n\nAlso known as Prometheus Five, the fifth and most recent in a series of robots of which the Super Robot is the prototype. Slingshot can manipulate energy to increase speed. He is voiced by Scott Menville.\n\nA living planetesimal who was used by Skeleton King to collide with The Planet Shuggazoom until Chiro convinced it to work for the side of good. Voiced by Clancy Brown.\n\nConsisting of an intergalactic circus crew, the Ringmaster, Leeah the Jungle Girl, and the Clown, the Citadel of Bone's black ooze infects them, plotting to transform the populace into mindless clowns until Chiro and Otto destroyed the Ringmaster's hat. After the ordeal The Circus allowed Otto to perform in the circus and remained allies with the Hyperforce. Robert Englund voices the Ringmaster and Kari Wahlgren voices Leeah.\n\nA tiny furball that can transform into a large battle form. Its slobber made all of the monkey team immune to a computer virus it was carrying; a scheme of Skeleton King to destroy the Hyperforce. Except for Gibson and the Super Robot, who tried to destroy Suggazoom City, due to the virus. Both returned to normal after they were licked by Thingy as well. Voiced by Frank Welker.\n\nA galaxy-class pilot who became obsessed with taking revenge on Skeleton King after a fragment of \"The Citadel of Bone\" placed his ship, \"The Last Chance\", and his crew at risk. Voiced by Lance Henriksen.\n\nThe previous defender of Shuggazoom City, whose secret identity was the wealthy billionaire playboy industrialist Clayton Carrington. He was a close ally of The Alchemist, who built all of his equipment (including the sleep cannon). When the Demon Beast escaped the Netherworld from the Alchemist's dimensional portal to terrorize Shuggazoom City, \nCaptain Shuggazoom fought against it and used the sleep cannon to put it into stasis. However, he was caught in the rays and lay dormant in a hidden underground cavern along with the Demon Beast for the next 60 years. He was later discovered and awakened by the Hyperforce, and the Demon Beast was roused in the process. After Captain Shuggazoom aided the Hyperforce in sending the Demon Beast back into the Netherworld, Captain Shuggazoom returned to the Alchemist's lab in the Savage Lands to learn what happened in Alchemist's last days before he was transformed into the Skeleton King. Captain Shuggazoom was attacked by Valeena and Mandarin but was rescued by the Hyperforce and currently resides in one of the Super Robot's healing chambers. Captain Shuggazoom bears a strong resemblance to Chiro and has a mental connection to Antauri. During his glory days he was young and dashing. When he awoke 60 years later, however, he had aged into an incredibly old man. He is voiced by Bruce Campbell.\n\nA mysterious yet kind man who can fuse the elements of Science and Magic for the good of mankind. He was the former human identity of the Skeleton King and created the Hyperforce and Super Robot to combat himself when a Dark One influenced and transformed him into his current undead form. Voiced by Mark Hamill.\n\nAlso known as the Hard Master, Master Offay runs an interplanetary dojo on the planet Galaxia and was Nova's former martial arts trainer. Voiced by Mako.\n\nThe only city on the planet, Shuggazoom, Shuggazoom city is the home of the Hyperforce.\n\nA rocky desert located on the outskirts of Shuggazoom City that landscapes the rest of the planet Shuggazoom. The Pit of Doom is located here, as well as the deep gorge where the Hyperforce found Captain Shuggazoom.\n\nA tropical jungle hidden within a series of caves located beneath Shuggazoom's surface. The jungle contains large deposits of the black ooze that is used to create the Formless, and thus the environment is inhabited by various Formless creatures. It is likely that the Savage Lands were once occupied by some sort of ancient civilization, as it houses a great deal of seemingly ancient temples and tombs. One of these temples was used as Valeena's base of operations, which she ruled over the area from after receiving her powers from Skeleton King. The Alchemist's laboratory is also located here.\n\nA frozen plain located on Shuggazoom's North Pole that is occupied only by Morlath and his snow monsters. The Ice Crystal of Vengeance was located here.\n\nA long forgotten realm located south of the Zone of Wasted Years. Centuries ago, a massive war struck here until everyone involved was destroyed. Unrelenting hatred rose. Since then, the Blasted Lands became a burning and unstable landscape. The Fire of Hate was located here.\n\nA small island housing a large monoliths that serves as a portal to the Netherworld, the home dimension of the Dark Ones.\n\nThe uninhabited moon of Shuggazoom. It is where the prison is and where Thingy was found.\n\nSRMTHG premiered on ABC Family's Jetix programming block on September 18, 2004. It also aired on Toon Disney's Jetix block until the Jetix programming block was taken off of ABC Family in August 2006, and the series began to air exclusively on Toon Disney.\n\nIt was also shown on \"Jetix UK\" from January 1, 2005, but was taken off the air on July 22, 2006, for unknown reasons. The entire series was, however, broadcast in the UK on GMTV's \"Toonattik\".\n\nSRMTHG was produced for widescreen, but originally shown cropped due to network restrictions.\n\nEach episode runs for 30 minutes, with commercials.\n\nIts theme song is performed by Japanese synthpop/new wave band Polysics.\n\nDisney did not renew the show for a fifth season, leaving it with a cliffhanger ending.\n\n"}
{"id": "37342894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37342894", "title": "The Archaeology of Death and Burial", "text": "The Archaeology of Death and Burial\n\nThe Archaeology of Death and Burial is an archaeological study by the English archaeologist Mike Parker Pearson, then a professor at the University of Sheffield. It was first published in 1999 by Sutton Publishing Limited, and later republished by The History Press.\n\nParker Pearson's book adopts a post-processual approach to funerary archaeology. It explores earlier approaches to the subject that have been advocated by social anthropologists and processual archaeologists.\n\n\"The Archaeology of Death and Burial\" was reviewed in various academic, peer-reviewed journals, to widespread praise, with a number of reviewers noting that the book would work well as a textbook on the subject of funerary archaeology for students. Some however criticised what they saw as Parker Pearson's dismissive and negative attitude towards processual approaches to funerary archaeology.\n\nMike Parker Pearson attained his BA in archaeology at the University of Southampton in 1979, where he had been supervised by the prominent post-processual archaeologist Ian Hodder, and socialised with several of Hodder's other students, including Sheena Crawford, Daniel Miller, Henrietta Moore, Christopher Tilley and Alice Welbourn. Like them, he had come under the influence of Hodder's post-processual ideas, in particular his use of structuralism as an interpretative tool. Parker Pearson went on to write a number of academic papers that were published in early post-processual anthologies such as \"Symbolic and Structural Archaeology\" (1982), \"Marxist Perspectives in Archaeology\" (1984) and \"Ideology, Power and Prehistory\" (1984). In 1985, he was awarded his PhD in archaeology from the University of Cambridge for a thesis entitled \"Death, society and societal change: the Iron Age of southern Jutland 200 BC – 600 AD.\"\n\nGaining work as an Inspector of Ancient Monuments for English Heritage, in 1989 he became a member of the Institute of Field Archaeologists. In 1990, he took up an academic teaching position at the University of Sheffield, becoming a fellow of the Society of Antiquaries the following year.\n\nChapter one, \"Learning from the Dead\", opens with an account of a 10th-century Volga Viking funeral from the Arab traveller Ibn Fadlan. Parker Pearson then highlights that funerals and the rites of the dead tell us more about the living in a society rather than the dead themselves. The book then proceeds to offer an overview of such issues as inhumation, cremation, grave goods, the organisation of cemeteries and human sacrifice.\n\nIn the second chapter, \"From Now to Then: Ethnoarchaeology and Analogy\", Parker Pearson explores earlier anthropological and archaeological theoretical approaches to death and burial. Beginning with a discussion of social anthropological approaches, he discusses the role of death as a rite of passage, thereby introducing the reader to the work of the anthropologist Arnold van Gennep. From there, he moves on to a discussion of functionalist approaches to death among social anthropologists, highlighting that funerals often serve as political events among communities. This is followed by a discussion of the dead as polluting entities, an idea advocated by Mary Douglas, and then themes of fertility and regeneration. He finally refers to the rites of reversal and ancestor veneration that play a role in funerals in many societies. From social anthropology, he moves on to look at the processual archaeological approaches to funerary archaeology, as have been advocated since the 1960s. In doing so, he discusses Arthur Saxe's arguments regarding the social dimensions of mortuary practices as well as Joseph Tainter's theories regarding the relationship between the energy expenditure used for a funeral and the social status of the corpse. He rounds this section off by highlighting a number of criticisms of processual approaches. Proceeding with a discussion of post-processual archaeological approaches, Parker Pearson looks at the influence of social practice and human agency on mortuary practices.\n\nJane Buikstra of the University of New Mexico reviewed Parker Pearson's tome for the \"Journal of Anthropological Research\". Considering it to be a \"curious and intriguing\" work, she thought it noteworthy that there was no introductory chapter exploring the author's goals. Remarking that Parker Pearson was clearly well versed in the subject, she also praised the use of illustrations throughout the book. Ultimately, she felt that \"The Archaeology of Death and Burial\" read like a series of essays, with the epilogue and the appendix being poorly integrated with the rest of the text, but nevertheless considered it to be \"very good\" overall.\nThe \"American Journal of Archaeology\" published a book review by the classical archaeologist Joseph L. Rife of Cornell University in New York. In it, Rife described Parker Pearson's work as a \"cogent, learned and entertaining\" study that he believed would become both the primary textbook in the field of funerary archaeology and the prime example of a post-processual approach to the subject, arguing that the influence of Ian Hodder was \"profound\". Feeling that the work struck the correct balance between theoretical discussions and case studies, Rife notes that Parker Pearson had not used any examples from the classical Mediterranean, but nevertheless feels that classical archaeologists could learn much from reading the book.\n\nEdward M. Luby of the Berkeley Natural History Museums reviewed the book for \"American Antiquity\", asserting that it was written in a \"clear and lively\" manner and praising the detailed nature of the endnotes and bibliography, ultimately feeling that it would be of great use to undergraduate students, who would be particularly interested by its discussion of topics like mummification, bog bodies and cannibalism. Recognising its post-processual approach to the subject of funerary archaeology, he felt however that its critique of processual approaches had been unnecessarily severe, describing it as \"one-sided, disappointing, and ultimately distracting.\" Luby felt that the book would have been greatly enhanced had Parker Pearson sought to unite processual and post-processual approaches rather than pitting the latter against the former in an \"either/or\" situation.\n\nWhile referencing Parker Pearson's work in their 2005 book, \"The Quest for the Shaman\", archaeologists Miranda and Stephen Aldhouse-Green commented that he had produced \"a major contribution\" to the study of \"ancient death rituals\".\n\n"}
{"id": "34629782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34629782", "title": "The Fall of the Rebel Angels (Bruegel)", "text": "The Fall of the Rebel Angels (Bruegel)\n\nThe Fall of the Rebel Angels is an oil-on-panel by the Netherlandish Renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder, painted in 1562. It is currently held and exhibited at the Royal Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium in Brussels.\n\nPainted in 1562, Bruegel's depiction of this subject is taken from a passage from the Book of Revelation (12, 2-9) and reveals the artist's profound debt to Hieronymous Bosch, especially in the grotesque figures of the fallen angels, shown as half-human, half-animal monsters. Together with \"Dulle Griet\" and \"The Triumph of Death\", which have similar dimensions, it was probably painted for the same collector and destined to become part of a series.\n\nThe composition with a central figure placed among many smaller figures was favoured by Bruegel at this time, not only in other paintings such as \"Dulle Griet\", but also in the series of engravings of the Vices and the Virtues which he had just completed for the Antwerp publisher Hieronymous Cock. The archangel Michael and his angels are shown by Bruegel in the act of driving the rebel angels from Heaven. Pride was the sin which caused the fall of Lucifer and his companions, and the conflict of good and evil, vice and virtue, is a theme which recurs constantly in Bruegel's work.\n\n"}
{"id": "29560452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29560452", "title": "The arts", "text": "The arts\n\nThe arts refers to the theory and physical expression of creativity found in human societies and cultures. Major constituents of the arts include literature (including drama, poetry, and prose), performing arts (among them dance, music, and theatre), and visual arts (including architecture, ceramics, drawing, painting, photography, and sculpting). \n\nSome art forms combine a visual element with performance (e.g., cinematography) or artwork with the written word (e.g., comics). From prehistoric cave paintings to modern day films, art serves as a vessel for storytelling and conveying humankind's relationship with the environment.\n\nIn its most basic abstract definition, art is a documented expression of a sentient being through or on an accessible medium so that anyone can view, hear or experience it. The act itself of producing an expression can also be referred to as a certain art, or as art in general. If this solidified expression, or the act of producing it, is \"good\" or has value depends on those who access and rate it and this public rating is dependent on various subjective factors. Merriam-Webster defines \"the arts\" as \"painting, sculpture, music, theatre, literature, etc., considered as a group of activities done by people with skill and imagination.\" Similarly, the United States Congress, in the National Foundation on the Arts and Humanities Act, defined \"the arts\" as follows:\n\nIn Ancient Greece, all art and craft was referred to by the same word, \"techne\". Thus, there was no distinction among the arts. Ancient Greek art brought the veneration of the animal form and the development of equivalent skills to show musculature, poise, beauty, and anatomically correct proportions. Ancient Roman art depicted gods as idealized humans, shown with characteristic distinguishing features (e.g. Zeus' thunderbolt). In Byzantine and Gothic art of the Middle Ages, the dominance of the church insisted on the expression of biblical and not material truths. Eastern art has generally worked in a style akin to Western medieval art, namely a concentration on surface patterning and local colour (meaning the plain colour of an object, such as basic red for a red robe, rather than the modulations of that colour brought about by light, shade and reflection). A characteristic of this style is that the local colour is often defined by an outline (a contemporary equivalent is the cartoon). This is evident in, for example, the art of India, Tibet and Japan. Religious Islamic art forbids iconography, and expresses religious ideas through geometry instead.\n\nIn the Middle Ages, the \"Artes Liberales\" (liberal arts) were taught in universities as part of the Trivium, an introductory curriculum involving grammar, rhetoric, and logic, and of the Quadrivium, a curriculum involving the \"mathematical arts\" of arithmetic, geometry, music, and astronomy. The \"Artes Mechanicae\" (consisting of \"vestiaria –\" tailoring and weaving; \"agricultura\" – agriculture; \"architectura\" – architecture and masonry; \"militia\" and \"venatoria –\" warfare, hunting, military education, and the martial arts; \"mercatura\" – trade; \"coquinaria\" – cooking; and \"metallaria\" – blacksmithing and metallurgy) were practised and developed in guild environments. The modern distinction between \"artistic\" and \"non-artistic\" skills did not develop until the Renaissance. In modern academia, the arts are usually grouped with or as a subset of the humanities. Some subjects in the humanities are history, linguistics, literature, theology, philosophy, and logic.\n\nThe arts have also been classified as seven: painting, architecture, sculpture, literature, music, performing and cinema.\nSome view literature, painting, sculpture, and music as the main four arts, of which the others are derivative; drama is literature with acting, dance is music expressed through motion, and song is music with literature and voice.\n\nArchitecture is the art and science of designing buildings and structures. The word \"architecture\" comes from the Greek \"arkhitekton\", \"master builder, director of works,\" from \"αρχι-\" (arkhi) \"chief\" + \"τεκτων\" (tekton) \"builder, carpenter\". A wider definition would include the design of the built environment, from the macrolevel of town planning, urban design, and landscape architecture to the microlevel of creating furniture. Architectural design usually must address both feasibility and cost for the builder, as well as function and aesthetics for the user.\n\nIn modern usage, architecture is the art and discipline of creating, or inferring an implied or apparent plan of, a complex object or system. The term can be used to connote the \"implied architecture\" of abstract things such as music or mathematics, the \"apparent architecture\" of natural things, such as geological formations or the structure of biological cells, or explicitly \"planned architectures\" of human-made things such as software, computers, enterprises, and databases, in addition to buildings. In every usage, an architecture may be seen as a \"subjective mapping\" from a human perspective (that of the \"user\" in the case of abstract or physical artifacts) to the elements or components of some kind of structure or system, which preserves the relationships among the elements or components. Planned architecture manipulates space, volume, texture, light, shadow, or abstract elements in order to achieve pleasing aesthetics. This distinguishes it from applied science or engineering, which usually concentrate more on the functional and feasibility aspects of the design of constructions or structures.\n\nIn the field of building architecture, the skills demanded of an architect range from the more complex, such as for a hospital or a stadium, to the apparently simpler, such as planning residential houses. Many architectural works may be seen also as cultural and political symbols, or works of art. The role of the architect, though changing, has been central to the successful (and sometimes less than successful) design and implementation of pleasingly built environments in which people live.\n\nCeramic art is art made from ceramic materials (including clay), which may take forms such as pottery, tile, figurines, sculpture, and tableware. While some ceramic products are considered fine art, some are considered to be decorative, industrial, or applied art objects. Ceramics may also be considered artefacts in archaeology.Ceramic art can be made by one person or by a group of people. In a pottery or ceramic factory, a group of people design, manufacture, and decorate the pottery. Products from a pottery are sometimes referred to as \"art pottery.\" In a one-person pottery studio, ceramists or potters produce studio pottery. In modern ceramic engineering usage, \"ceramics\" is the art and science of making objects from inorganic, non-metallic materials by the action of heat. It excludes glass and mosaic made from glass \"tesserae.\"\n\nConceptual art is art in which the concept(s) or idea(s) involved in the work takes precedence over traditional aesthetic and material concerns.\nThe inception of the term in the 1960s referred to a strict and focused practice of idea-based art that often defied traditional visual criteria associated with the visual arts in its presentation as text. Through its association with the Young British Artists and the Turner Prize during the 1990s, its popular usage, particularly in the UK, developed as a synonym for all contemporary art that does not practise the traditional skills of painting and sculpture.\n\nDrawing is a means of making an image, using any of a wide variety of tools and techniques. It generally involves making marks on a surface by applying pressure from a tool, or moving a tool across a surface. Common tools are graphite pencils, pen and ink, inked brushes, wax colour pencils, crayons, charcoals, pastels, and markers. Digital tools which can simulate the effects of these are also used. The main techniques used in drawing are line drawing, hatching, crosshatching, random hatching, scribbling, stippling, and blending. An artist who excels in drawing is referred to as a \"drafter\", \"draftswoman\", or \"draughtsman\". Drawing can be used to create art used in cultural industries such as illustrations, comics and animation.\n\nPainting is a mode of creative expression, and can be done in numerous forms. Drawing, gesture (as in gestural painting), composition, narration (as in narrative art), or abstraction (as in abstract art), among other aesthetic modes, may serve to manifest the expressive and conceptual intention of the practitioner. Paintings can be naturalistic and representational (as in a still life or landscape painting), photographic, abstract, narrative, symbolistic (as in Symbolist art), emotive (as in Expressionism), or political in nature (as in Artivism).\n\nModern painters have extended the practice considerably to include, for example, collage. Collage is not painting in the strict sense since it includes other materials. Some modern painters incorporate different materials such as sand, cement, straw, wood or strands of hair for their artwork texture. Examples of this are the works of Elito Circa, Jean Dubuffet or Anselm Kiefer.\n\nPhotography as an art form refers to photographs that are created in accordance with the creative vision of the photographer. Art photography stands in contrast to photojournalism, which provides a visual account for news events, and commercial photography, the primary focus of which is to advertise products or services.\n\nSculpture is the branch of the visual arts that operates in three dimensions. It is one of the plastic arts. Durable sculptural processes originally used carving (the removal of material) and modelling (the addition of material, as clay), in stone, metal, ceramics, wood and other materials; but since modernism, shifts in sculptural process led to an almost complete freedom of materials and process. A wide variety of materials may be worked by removal such as carving, assembled by welding or modelling, or moulded, or cast.\n\nLiterature is literally \"acquaintance with letters\" as in the first sense given in the \"Oxford English Dictionary\". The noun \"literature\" comes from the Latin word \"littera\" meaning \"an individual written character (letter).\" The term has generally come to identify a collection of writings, which in Western culture are mainly prose (both fiction and non-fiction), drama and poetry. In much, if not all of the world, the artistic linguistic expression can be oral as well, and include such genres as epic, legend, myth, ballad, other forms of oral poetry, and as folktale. Comics, the combination of drawings or other visual arts with narrating literature, are often called the \"ninth art\" (le neuvième art) in Francophone scholarship.\n\nPerforming arts comprise dance, music, theatre, opera, mime, and other art forms in which a human performance is the principal product. Performing arts are distinguished by this performance element in contrast with disciplines such as visual and literary arts where the product is an object that does not require a performance to be observed and experienced. Each discipline in the performing arts is temporal in nature, meaning the product is performed over a period of time. Products are broadly categorized as being either repeatable (for example, by script or score) or improvised for each performance. Artists who participate in these arts in front of an audience are called \"performers\", including actors, magicians, comedians, dancers, musicians, and singers. Performing arts are also supported by the services of other artists or essential workers, such as songwriting and stagecraft. Performers often adapt their appearance with tools such as costume and stage makeup.\n\nMusic is an art form whose medium is sound and silence, occurring in time. Common elements of music are pitch (which governs melody and harmony), rhythm (and its associated concepts tempo, metre, and articulation), dynamics, and the sonic qualities of timbre and texture. The creation, performance, significance, and even the definition of music vary according to culture and social context. Music ranges from strictly organized compositions (and their reproduction in performance) through improvisational music to aleatoric pieces. Music can be divided into genres and subgenres, although the dividing lines and relationships between music genres are often subtle, sometimes open to individual interpretation, and occasionally controversial. Within \"the arts,\" music may be classified as a performing art, a fine art, and auditory art.\n\nTheatre or theater (from Greek \"theatron\" (\"θέατρον)\"; from \"theasthai\", \"behold\") is the branch of the performing arts concerned with acting out stories in front of an audience using combinations of speech, gesture, music, dance, sound and spectacle – indeed, any one or more elements of the other performing arts. In addition to the standard narrative dialogue style, theatre takes such forms as opera, ballet, mime, kabuki, classical Indian dance, Chinese opera and mummers' plays.\n\nDance (from Old French \"dancier\", of unknown origin) generally refers to human movement either used as a form of expression or presented in a social, spiritual or performance setting. \"Dance\" is also used to describe methods of non-verbal communication (see body language) between humans or animals (e.g. bee dance, mating dance), motion in inanimate objects (e.g. \"the leaves danced in the wind\"), and certain musical forms or genres. Choreography is the art of making dances, and the person who does this is called a choreographer. Definitions of what constitutes dance are dependent on social, cultural, aesthetic, artistic and moral constraints and range from functional movement (such as Folk dance) to codified, virtuoso techniques such as ballet. In sports, gymnastics, figure skating and synchronized swimming are dance disciplines while Martial arts \"kata\" are often compared to dances.\n\nAreas exist in which artistic works incorporate multiple artistic fields, such as film, opera and performance art. While opera is often categorized in the performing arts of music, the word itself is Italian for \"works\", because opera combines several artistic disciplines in a singular artistic experience. In a typical traditional opera, the entire work utilizes the following: the sets (visual arts), costumes (fashion), acting (dramatic performing arts), the libretto, or the words/story (literature), and singers and an orchestra (music). The composer Richard Wagner recognized the fusion of so many disciplines into a single work of opera, exemplified by his cycle \"Der Ring des Nibelungen\" (\"The Ring of the Nibelung\"). He did not use the term opera for his works, but instead Gesamtkunstwerk (\"synthesis of the arts\"), sometimes referred to as \"Music Drama\" in English, emphasizing the literary and theatrical components which were as important as the music. Classical ballet is another form which emerged in the 17th century in which orchestral music is combined with dance.\n\nOther works in the late 19th, 20th and 21st centuries have fused other disciplines in unique and creative ways, such as performance art. Performance art is a performance over time which combines any number of instruments, objects, and art within a predefined or less well-defined structure, some of which can be improvised. Performance art may be scripted, unscripted, random or carefully organized; even audience participation may occur. John Cage is regarded by many as a performance artist rather than a composer, although he preferred the latter term. He did not compose for traditional ensembles. Cage's composition \"Living Room Music\" composed in 1940 is a \"quartet\" for unspecified instruments, really non-melodic objects, which can be found in a living room of a typical house, hence the title.\n\nThere is no clear line between art and culture. Cultural fields like gastronomy are sometimes considered as arts.\n\nThe applied arts are the application of design and decoration to everyday, functional, objects to make them aesthetically pleasing. The applied arts includes fields such as industrial design, illustration, and commercial art. The term \"applied art\" is used in distinction to the fine arts, where the latter is defined as arts that aims to produce objects which are beautiful or provide intellectual stimulation but have no primary everyday function. In practice, the two often overlap.\n\nA debate exists in the fine arts and video game cultures over whether video games can be counted as an art form. Game designer Hideo Kojima professes that video games are a type of service, not an art form, because they are meant to entertain and attempt to entertain as many people as possible, rather than being a single artistic voice (despite Kojima himself being considered a gaming auteur, and the mixed opinions his games typically receive). However, he acknowledged that since video games are made up of artistic elements (for example, the visuals), game designers could be considered museum curators – not creating artistic pieces, but arranging them in a way that displays their artistry and sells tickets.\n\nWithin social sciences, cultural economists show how video games playing is conducive to the involvement in more traditional art forms and cultural practices, which suggests the complementarity between video games and the arts.\n\nIn May 2011, the National Endowment of the Arts included video games in its redefinition of what is considered a \"work of art\" when applying of a grant. In 2012, the Smithsonian American Art Museum presented an exhibit, \"The Art of the Video Game\". Reviews of the exhibit were mixed, including questioning whether video games belong in an art museum.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13817289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13817289", "title": "Valkyrior", "text": "Valkyrior\n\nThe Valkyrior is a fictional organization appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Based on the Valkyries of Norse mythology, the group, created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby, first appeared in \"Thor\" #133 (October 1966). Within the context of Marvel's shared universe, the Valkyrior is a group of female warriors led by Brunnhilde / Valkyrie that was originally designated by Odin to bring the souls of slain heroes to Valhalla. In 2013, the team became the subject of the short lived series, \"The Fearless Defenders\".\n\nThe Valkyrior, created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby, first appeared in \"Thor\" #133 (October 1966). The team, led by Valkyrie and Misty Knight is the subject of the 2013 series, \"The Fearless Defenders\" by Cullen Bunn and Will Sliney. Bun said, \"The basic idea of the book is that Valkyrie is choosing a new team of Valkyrior, and she's been asked to choose all these women from the heroes of Midgard, instead of from Asgard. She has completely failed in this task. Valkyrie has been unable to choose anyone that she feels is worthy to be one of the hosts of the shield maidens. So she just hasn't done it. She's dropped the ball. Because she's not done what she said she would do, nature—or supernature, as it is—abhors a vacuum. The absence of the Valkyrior has opened the door to something terrible. Something awful is waking, and Valkyrie finds that it's really her fault that she's put everything at risk.\"\n\nThe Valkyrior are warrior goddesses of Asgard who ride winged horses. Originally, under the leadership of Brunnhilde, they took mortally wounded human heroes from German and Scandinavian battlegrounds and brought them to Valhalla, an area of the Asgardian dimension where the astral forms of the dead Asgardians and human heroes eternally feast and compete in friendly battles. The Valkyries were no longer able to perform this task when Odin, ruler of Asgard, vowed to the Celestials a millennium ago that he would severely restrict Asgardian contact with Earth.\n\nIn later years, Brunnhilde became a member of Earth's Defenders. The remaining Valkyries were killed in a war between Odin and Hela over rule of Valhalla. Odin restored the Valkyries to life after he regained possession of Valhalla, but these Valkyries only have physical form within Valhalla; outside it, they exist only in astral form. Valtrauta has taken Brunnhilde's place as ruler of the Valkyrior, and Hildegarde's sister Krista (aka Mist) has filled the role of the ninth Valkyrie, left open since Brunnhilde's departure.\n\nThe Valkyrior appears in the 2017 film \"\".\n"}
{"id": "226990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226990", "title": "Written language", "text": "Written language\n\nA written language is the representation of a spoken or gestural language by means of a writing system. Written language is an invention in that it must be taught to children, who will pick up spoken language (oral or sign) by exposure even if they are not specifically taught.\n\nA written language exists only as a complement to a specific spoken language, and no natural language is purely written.\n\nWritten languages change more slowly than corresponding spoken languages. When at least one register of a language is strongly divergent from spoken language, the resulting situation is called diglossia. However, that is still often considered as one language, between literary language and other registers, especially if the writing system reflects its pronunciation.\n\nNative readers and writers of English are often unaware that the complexities of English spelling make written English a somewhat artificial construct. The traditional spelling of English, at least for inherited words, preserves a late Middle English phonology that is never used as a speech dialect. The artificial preservation of that form of the language, in writing, might make much of what is now written intelligibly to Geoffrey Chaucer (1343–1400) even if the medieval writer's speech could no longer be understood.\n"}
