{"id": "12498212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12498212", "title": "Abdul Raziq Bugti", "text": "Abdul Raziq Bugti\n\nAbdul Raziq Bugti (1952 – 27 July 2007) was a Pakistani politician.\n\nHe was born in the Masuri clan of the Bugti tribe in Sibi, Balochistan, Pakistan.\n\nBugti's political career started in 1960s. He was president of Baloch Students Organization in 1968. In the following years, he joined with Baloch separatist groups. In the 1970s, he fought in a guerilla war in Balochistan. Before the insurgency, he was also a member of National Awami Party. After the war, he went into self-exile in Afghanistan and lived many years in Russia. In 2003, he backed the military-backed Pakistani government, in their development of and the military operations in Balochistan. He was spokesperson of province and media consultant to the Chief Minister of Balochistan Government.\n\nOn 27 July 2007, about 4:15 PM; he was gunned down on Zarghon Road 200 metres from Chief Minister’s House in Quetta, the capital of Balochistan, the same spot where several high-post government officials were attacked in the past; Justice Nawaz Marri, a High Court judge and Nisar Hazara former provincial minister survived assassination. Abdul Raziq Bugti was alone in his car when he was shot, he was shifted to Civil Hospital Quetta where he was announced dead. The same day Balochistan Liberation Army claimed responsibility for the incident. Government claimed it could be national leaders hand, BLA or Bugti militia because his name was on a hit list of these groups. He was 55 years old.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40168187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40168187", "title": "Albert Deutsch", "text": "Albert Deutsch\n\nAlbert Deutsch (1905–1965) was an American journalist and social historian. He won a George Polk Award\n\nDeutsch was born on the lower East Side of New York City to immigrant parents. He attended public schools but dropped out of high school and for a number of years he traveled throughout the United States supporting himself by working as a longshoreman, a farm worker, and a shipyard worker. He continued to educate himself in biography and history by visiting public libraries.\n\nHe returned to New York City in the early 1930s. In 1934, he secured a position as an archivist-researcher with the New York State Department of Public Welfare, which was writing a history of the welfare period from 1867 to 1940. The book was published in 1942. While researching for this book, he found material about the public care of the mentally ill and he approached the National Foundation for Mental Health (part of the National Committee for Mental Hygiene) with a proposal to prepare a history of psychiatry in the United States. He proposed to co-author the book with Clifford Beers, Secretary of the National Committee for Mental Hygiene and the author of the acclaimed book \"The Mind that Found Itself\", published in 1909. The relationship between Deutsch and Beers was stormy. In the end, the book \"The Mentally Ill in America: A History of Their Care and Treatment from Colonial Times\" was published in 1937 with Deutsch the author. The book was widely accepted by both lay and professional audiences and still considered the first substantive history of American psychiatry up to that time.\n\nDeutsch had a successful career as a social historian and as a journalist. From 1941 to 1947, he was a columnist for the \"New York Post\", writing on social aspects of health care. Later, he published several books based on his columns. In 1945, he wrote about the care of veterans in the Veterans Administration hospitals. In 1948, his book \"The Shame of the States\" exposed the conditions in state mental hospitals. In 1950, he wrote \"Our Rejected Children\", and in 1955, \"The Trouble with Cops\".\n\nDeutsch’s work won him numerous accolades. In 1945, he received the Heywood Broun award for his newspaper work. In 1947, the Newspaper Guild honored him as a distinguished humanitarian in American journalism. In 1948, he was elected to the Innominate Society (Louisville, Kentucky, and the predecessor of the New York Society for the History of Medicine). In 1949, he received the Albert Lasker Award presented by the National Committee against Mental Illness. The American Psychiatric Association bestowed upon him an honorary membership in 1958.\n\nIn 1956, he received a grant from the National Association for Mental Health; later supplemented by funds from the National Institute of Mental Health to prepare a survey of mental health research in the United States.\n\nDeutsch died in 1965 in England while attending a conference.\n\n\nAmerican Psychiatric Association. \"One Hundred Years of American Psychiatry\". New York: Columbia University Press, 1944.\n\nBrand, Jeanne L. “Albert Deutsch: The Historian as Social Reformer,” \"Journal of the History of Medicine and Allied Sciences\" 18(2) (April 1963): 149-157.\n\nGarraty, John A., and Mark C. Carnes, eds. \"American National Biography\". New York: Oxford University Press, 1999.\n\nMicale, Mark S., and Roy Porter. \"Discovering the History of Psychiatry\". New York: Oxford University Press, 1994.\n"}
{"id": "2604356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2604356", "title": "Asa language", "text": "Asa language\n\nThe Asa (Aasá) language, commonly rendered Aasax, was spoken by the Asa people of Tanzania. The language is extinct; ethnic Assa in northern Tanzania remember only a few words they overheard their elders use, and none ever used it themselves. Little is known of the language; what is recorded was probably Aasa lexical words used in a register of Maasai like the mixed language Mbugu.\n\nAsa is usually classified as Cushitic, most closely related to Kw'adza. However, it might have retained a non-Cushitic layer from an earlier language shift, and might be best left unclassified.\n\nThe Aramanik (Laramanik) people once spoke Asa, but shifted to Nandi (as opposed to Maasai).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11368803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11368803", "title": "Association for Slavic, East European, and Eurasian Studies", "text": "Association for Slavic, East European, and Eurasian Studies\n\nThe Association for Slavic, East European, and Eurasian Studies (ASEEES) is a scholarly society dedicated to the advancement of knowledge about the former Soviet Union (including Eurasia) and Eastern and Central Europe. The ASEEES supports teaching, research, and publication relating to the peoples and territories within this area.\n\nAs the premier organization in the world dedicated to the advancement of Slavic studies, ASEEES has cultivated the field’s intellectual landscape for over fifty years through its chief publication, \"Slavic Review\", its Annual Convention, its book prizes, and its organizational newsletter. \"Slavic Review\" is the leading scholarly journal in the field, with c.3,800 subscribers around the world. It features articles that can take any disciplinary approach, and are deemed to be original and significant to the field by peer-reviewers. The journal also features reviews and critiques of recent research within the field.\n\nIn addition to providing access to current research and scholarship in Slavic studies through \"Slavic Review\", ASEEES has also held an Annual Convention for decades. These conventions have been established as the center of intellectual vitality in Slavic, East European, and Eurasian studies by creating the international forum wherein over 2,000 attendees (scholars, professionals, and graduate students—domestic and international) exchange new research and information face-to-face on an annual basis. The convention lasts four days and features approximately 500 panels and round-tables and 40 meetings.\n\nThe Annual Convention also provides the opportunity to recognize outstanding scholarship in the field by awarding prizes to works of merit published within the preceding year. ASEEES awards nine book prizes, a dissertation prize, and a graduate essay prize. These prizes work to motivate scholars to perform at the highest of standards, therefore strengthening the field of Slavic, East European, and Eurasian studies.\n\nASEEES’ organizational newsletter serves as the informal medium for coverage of the news of the field and profession. Distributed to their 3,000 members five times a year, it reports the activities of members and affiliates, notes members’ recent publications, provides a calendar of conferences, features articles and speeches, lists summer programs and fellowship/grant opportunities, and lists job postings from their over fifty institutional members.\n\nIn the aftermath of World War II, the face of Europe was greatly changed. A number of countries of Central and Eastern Europe fell under the influence/control of the Soviet Union following the defeat of German fascism. Throughout the non-communist world political decision-makers felt the need for additional academic analysis of the politics and history of the USSR and the so-called \"Soviet bloc\" nations as well as for improved facilities for language training for a new generation of foreign affairs specialists.\n\nA number of American universities established area studies programs and research institutes in the immediate post-war period, including notably Harvard University in Cambridge, Massachusetts, Columbia University in New York City, and the University of Washington in Seattle. These institutions successfully produced the leading scholars of Slavic studies in North America. A number of graduates and professors from these programs were instrumental in forming the American Association for the Advancement of Slavic Studies (AAASS) from its conception between the Joint Committee on Slavic Studies (JCSS) and the American Council of Learned Societies' professional journal to being its own membership organization.\n\nThe organization's precursors—the Joint Committee on Slavic Studies (JCSS) and the American Slavic and East European Review (ASEER)—were two entities already in the field. The JCSS—a joint committee of the American Council of Learned Societies (ACLS) and the Social Science Research Council (SSRC)—supported scholarly conferences and publications, disbursed research and fellowship grants, and sponsored bibliographic and other projects. In 1938, the JCSS set up a subcommittee specifically for the review of Russian studies, whose chief activity was to prompt and finalize a proposal for a national professional organization. This subcommittee joined forces with ACLS’s professional journal ASEER—\"American Slavic and East European Review,\" a scholarly magazine launched in 1941 by John Hazard of Columbia University. By that point, ASEER had already created a corporation named 'American Association for the Advancement of Slavic Studies, Inc. (AAASS)'. They did so, in 1948, so as to have an \"owner\" (but was merely a “legal umbrella”) so that they would be permitted to print their journal in the State of New York—that year is still considered the Association's official date of establishment.\n\nTogether, ASEER and JCSS coordinated the June 1, 1960 launch of a full-fledge national professional membership organization under the existing AAASS name. This new AAASS combined the activities of both the JCSS’s Russian Studies subcommittee and the ASEER. However, ASEER was soon enlarged, revised, and renamed to become AAASS' own quarterly peer-reviewed journal, \"Slavic Review\". Professor Donald Treadgold of the University of Washington was the initial editor of this new official AAASS publication. AAASS had (and continues to have) an interdisciplinary scope, and was to be a means of promoting contact and communication and of encouraging a sense of identification and association among those concerned with Russian and East European Studies. Its main functions were to distribute an annual bibliography, to sponsor professional meetings and scholarly conferences, to provide a non-juried periodic newsletter (published to promote the flow of information among society members regarding the status of ongoing research and other matters of general academic interest), and to promote and sponsor other projects designed to help the field as a whole.\n\nIn 2008, the membership of the Association voted to change the name of the AAASS, effective in 2010, to the Association for Slavic, East European, and Eurasian Studies (ASEEES). This new name reflects the Association's widened scope to Eurasia/Central Asia. The change in name coincided with the move of the Association's headquarters from Harvard in Cambridge, Massachusetts to the University of Pittsburgh in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.\n\nASEEES' national office is located at the University of Pittsburgh. It handles membership, publication subscriptions, \"NewsNet\", and organizes and coordinates programmatic activities like the annual convention.\n\nSix regional affiliates and a geographically wide-ranging committee structure enable members across the country to effectively work together on matters of professional interest. Specifically, regional affiliates sponsor scholarly meetings and activities within their respective regions of the US. ASEEES committees contribute to many aspects of the organization including scholarly ventures, prizes and publications. In addition, ASEEES has organizational ties with scholarly societies within the broad field of Slavic, East European, and Eurasian studies. These affiliates normally sponsor panels and hold meetings at the annual ASEEES convention.\n\nThe ASEEES by-laws establish that the business, property, and affairs are conducted and managed by a Board of Directors. This board currently consists of twenty-four officers—each with different term lengths. Each year, officers cycle off and the ASEEES holds elections to designate a new Vice-President/President-Elect, two members-at-large, and (every other year) a graduate student representative.\n\nClick here for more information and a list of current officers.\n\nASEEES has approximately 3,000 members and subscribers in the US and abroad. Members come from the academic community, as well as from the government and private sectors. Membership is open to anyone interested in furthering the scholarly objectives of ASEEES. Members:\n\n\nInstitutions with programs or interests in Slavic, East European, and Eurasian studies are eligible to become institutional members of ASEEES. Over fifty institutions demonstrate their support of the field via membership in the Association. Through their representatives on the Council of Institutional Members, they exchange viewpoints and work together on issues of common concern.\n\nThe \"Slavic Review\" is ASEEES' chief publication and is the leading scholarly journal in the field. It features articles, discussions, and reviews of recent literature that span all academic disciplines and geographic areas within Slavic studies. The \"Slavic Review\" is available on JSTOR.\n\nThe editorial offices of the \"Slavic Review\" are located at the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign.\n\n\"NewsNet\" is ASEEES' newsletter, which carries news both of the profession and of the association and is published five times a year. It includes:\n\n\n\"NewsNet\" is also available online here.\n\nThe annual convention is one of ASEEES' core activities. Each year, it provides an exciting international forum aimed at continuing intellectual vitality in the field through a broad exchange of ideas. Scholars, professionals, and students alike have the chance to explore the newest research and information by participating in panel and round-table discussions from all disciplines. With an average of over 2,000 attendees each year, the convention is excellent opportunity to network with colleagues, publishers, and related organizations.\n\nASEEES (formerly AAASS) has held conventions since 1964. The first convention of the organization was held in New York City in April 1964, under the chairmanship of Professor Holland Hunter of Haverford College. Although the organization initially held these gatherings every third year so as not to sap the strength of the organization, they have been held on an annual basis for decades, hosted in a different city each year.\n\nThe Association annually awards various prizes and awards which are presented at the Awards Presentation during the Annual Convention:\n\n\nRegional affiliates sponsor scholarly meetings and activities within their respective regions of the US.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33770660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33770660", "title": "Bhe v Magistrate, Khayelitsha", "text": "Bhe v Magistrate, Khayelitsha\n\nBhe and Others v Magistrate, Khayelitsha and Others; Shibi v Sithole and Others; SA Human Rights Commission and Another v President of the RSA and Another, an important case in South African customary law, was heard in the Constitutional Court on 2 and 3 March 2004, with judgment handed down on 15 October. Chaskalson CJ, Langa DCJ, Madala J, Mokgoro J, Moseneke J, Ngcobo J, O'Regan J, Sachs J, Skweyiya J, Van Der Westhuizen J, and Yacoob J were the presiding judges. The court held that section 23 of the Black Administration Act, in applying the system of male primogeniture, was incompatible with sections 9 (equality) and 10 (dignity) of the Constitution.\n\nThere were two main issues at hand:\n\n\nIn the matter of \"Bhe and Others v Magistrate, Khayelitsha, and Others\" two minor children, both extra-marital daughters, had failed to qualify as heirs in the intestate estate of their deceased father. The father of the deceased was appointed representative and sole heir of the deceased's estate, in accordance with section 23 of the Act. Under the system of intestate succession created by section 23 and the regulations, particularly regulation 2(e), minor children did not qualify to be heirs in the intestate estate of their deceased father. According to these provisions, the estate was to be distributed according to \"Black law and custom.\"\n\nThe applicants challenged, in the High Court, the appointment of the deceased's father as heir and representative of the estate. After considering the opposed application, the High Court concluded that the legislative provisions that had been challenged, and on which the father of the deceased had relied, were inconsistent with the Constitution and therefore invalid. The court further declared that, until the defects were corrected by the legislature, the distribution of intestate black estates was to be governed by the Intestate Succession Act.\n\nIn the Shibi matter, the applicant's brother had died intestate. The deceased had not married, nor had he been a partner in a customary union. He had no children and was not survived by a parent or grandparent. His nearest male relatives were his two cousins. Since the deceased was an African, his estate fell to be administered under the provisions of section 23(10) of the Black Administration Act, resulting in first the one cousin being appointed as representative, and then, after protestations, the other cousin being appointed as sole heir of the estate. In terms of the system created by section 23 and the regulations made thereunder (in particular regulation 2[e]), the estate of the deceased fell to be distributed according to custom. Ms Shibi, in terms of that system, was precluded from being the heir to the intestate estate of her deceased brother. In the High Court, she challenged the magistrate's decision and the manner in which the estate had been administered. She sought and obtained an order declaring herself to be the sole heir in the estate of her deceased brother.\n\nBoth the \"Bhe\" and \"Shibi\" matters were applications for confirmation of the High Court orders. In the matter of \"South African Human Rights Commission and Another v President of the Republic of South Africa and Another\", an application for direct access was brought by both the South African Human Rights Commission and the Women's Legal Centre Trust, acting in their own interest as well as that of the public. The relief sought was wider than that in the \"Bhe\" and \"Shibi\" matters. Apart from the provisions declared invalid by the High Court, the applicants contended that the whole of section 23, and alternatively subsections (1), (2) and (6) of section 23, had to be declared unconstitutional and invalid because of their inconsistency with section 9 (right to equality), section 10 (right to human dignity) and section 28 (rights of children) of the Constitution.\n\nThe Constitutional Court held that it could grant direct access in exceptional circumstances only. In the present matter, the court considered the following: The challenged provisions governed the administration and distribution of all intestate estates of deceased Africans. The impact of the provisions fell mainly on African women and children, arguably the most vulnerable groups in South African society. The provisions also affected male persons who, in terms of the customary-law rule of primogeniture, were not heirs to the intestate estates of deceased Africans. Many people were therefore affected by these provisions; it was desirable that clarity as to their constitutional validity be established as soon as possible. The submissions sought to be made by the applicants related to substantive issues that were already before the Court. The application further added fresh insights on difficult issues, including the question of the appropriate remedy. Both applicants were found to be eminently qualified to be part of the debate on the issues before the Court. The court held, accordingly, that it was in the interests of justice that the application for direct access be granted.\n\nThe system that flowed from section 23 of the Act, read with the regulations published thereunder, as well as section 1(4)(b) of the Intestate Succession Act, purported to give effect to customary law. Customary law, in its own right protected by and subject to the Constitution, had to be interpreted to answer in the first place to constitutional requirements. The validity of the rules and principles of customary law accordingly depended on whether or not they were consistent with the Constitution and, in particular, the Bill of Rights.\n\nThe court held that section 28 of the Constitution marked the importance specifically given to the protection of the rights of children, which included not only those rights expressly conferred by section 28, but also all the other constitutional rights which, appropriately construed, were conferred upon children. Children could therefore not, any more than adults, be subjected to unfair discrimination in breach of section 9(3). Two prohibited grounds of discrimination were relevant in this case, the first relating to sex, and the other to birth.\n\nChildren whose parents were not married at the time they were conceived or born were historically discriminated against in a range of ways. This, the court held, was particularly true of children whose lives were governed by common law. Although much of the stigma attaching to extra-marital children was social and religious rather than legal in origin, that stigma was nevertheless deeply harmful. For example, extra-marital sons had reduced rights of inheritance under customary law, being able to inherit only in the absence of any other male descendants.\n\nThe prohibition of unfair discrimination on the ground of birth, contained in section 9(3) of the Constitution, had to be interpreted to prohibit differentiating between children on the basis of whether their biological parents were married either at the time the child was conceived or when it was born. Extra-marital children suffered from social stigma and impairment of their dignity. Where differentiation was made on such grounds, it had to be assumed to be unfair unless it was otherwise established.\n\nThe court held further that section 23 was a racist provision and fundamentally unconstitutional, being contrary to sections 9 and 10 of the Constitution due to its blatant discrimination on grounds of race, colour and ethnic origin, and its harmful effects on the dignity of persons affected by it. Section 23 could not escape its context, \"viz\" an Act specifically crafted to fit in with notions of separation and exclusion of Africans from the people of \"European\" descent.\n\nAlthough the constitutional attack in \"Bhe\" and \"Shibi\" was directed specifically against section 23(10) and the regulations, it was nevertheless quite clear the subsections making up section 23, read with the regulations, constituted a scheme of intestate succession. Since the subsections were interlinked, they all had to stand or fall together. They provided a scheme whereby the legal system governing intestate succession was determined simply by reference to skin colour. The choice of law was thus based on racial grounds only, and so section 23 and its regulations imposed a system on all Africans irrespective of their circumstances and inclinations. What it said to Africans, the court held, was that, if they wished to extricate themselves from the regime so created, they were obliged to make a will. Only those with sufficient resources, knowledge, education or opportunity to make an informed choice would be able to benefit from that provision. Moreover, the section provided that some categories of property were incapable of being devised by will but had to devolve according to the principles of \"Black law and custom.\"\n\nThe racist provenance of the provision was illustrated, according to the court, by the distinction drawn in the regulations between estates that had to devolve in terms of \"Black law and custom\" and those that devolved as though the deceased \"had been a European.\" The purported exemption of certain Africans from the operation of \"Black law and custom\" was not only demeaning; it was overtly racist. Although it was to be found in the regulations and not in the statute itself, this provision nevertheless provided a contextual indicator of the purpose and intent of the overall scheme contemplated by section 23 and the regulations.\n\nThe court held, accordingly, that section 23 of the Act and its regulations were, construed in the light of their history and context, manifestly discriminatory and thus in breach of section 9(3) of the Constitution. The only remaining question was whether this discrimination was capable of justification in terms of section 36 of the Constitution.\n\nThe court found that the rights violated were important ones, particularly in the South African context. The rights to equality and dignity were among the most valuable in any open and democratic State, and assumed special importance in South Africa, due to its history of inequality and hurtful discrimination on grounds such as race and gender. Although it was possible to argue that, despite its racist and sexist nature, section 23 gave recognition to customary law and acknowledged the pluralist nature of South African society, this was not its dominant purpose or effect. Section 23 was enacted as part of a racist programme intent on entrenching division and subordination, and its effect had been to ossify customary law; in the light of this, it could not be justified in the open and democratic society intended in section 36 of the Constitution. It was clear, therefore, that the serious violation by the provisions of section 23 of the rights to equality and human dignity could not be justified in the new constitutional order. Section 23 accordingly had to be struck down in accordance with s 172(1)(a) of the Constitution.\n\nThe effect of the invalidation of section 23 of the Act was that the customary-law rules governing succession were inapplicable, including the customary-law rule of primogeniture attacked in the \"Bhe\" and \"Shibi\" cases.\n\nAccording to the customary law of succession, an heir did not merely succeed to the assets of the deceased. This was because succession was concerned not primarily with the distribution of the estate of the deceased, but rather with the preservation and perpetuation of the family unit. Property was collectively owned, and the family head, who was the nominal owner of the property, administered it for the benefit of the family unit as a whole. The heir stepped into the shoes of the family head and acquired all the rights and became subject to all the obligations of the family head. Family members under the guardianship of the deceased fell under the guardianship of his heir, and the latter in turn acquired the duty to maintain and support all the members of the family, who were assured of his protection and enjoyed the benefit of the heir's maintenance and support. He inherited the property of the deceased only in the sense that he assumed control and administration of the property, subject to his rights and obligations as head of the family unit.\n\nThe rule of primogeniture, the court found, was central to the customary law of succession. The general rule was that only a male related to the deceased could qualify as intestate heir. Women did not participate in the intestate succession of deceased estates. In a monogamous family, the eldest son of the family head was his heir. If the deceased was not survived by any male descendants, his father succeeded him. If his father also did not survive him, an heir was sought among the father's male descendants related to him through the male line. The exclusion of women from heirship, and consequently from being able to inherit property, was in keeping with a patriarchal system which reserved for women a position of subservience and subordination in which they were regarded as perpetual minors under the tutelage of fathers, husbands or heads of the extended family. Extra-marital children were not entitled to succeed to their father's estate in customary law. They qualified for succession in their mother's family, but subject to the principle of primogeniture. The eldest male extra-marital child qualified for succession only after all male intra-marital children and other close male members of the family.\n\nModern urban communities and families were no longer structured and organised purely along traditional lines. The customary rules of succession simply determined succession to the deceased's estate without the accompanying social implications they traditionally had. Nuclear families had largely replaced traditional extended families. The heir did not necessarily live with the whole extended family (which included the spouse of the deceased and other dependants and descendants), but often simply acquired the estate without assuming, or even being in a position to assume, any of the deceased's responsibilities. In these changed circumstances the succession of the heir to the assets of the deceased did not necessarily correspond in practice with an enforceable responsibility to provide support and maintenance to the family and dependants of the deceased.\n\nThe customary rules of succession had not been given space to adapt and keep pace with changing social conditions and values; one reason for this was the fact that they were captured in legislation, in textbooks, in the writings of experts and in court decisions without allowing for the dynamism of customary law in the face of changing circumstances. They had become increasingly out of step with the real values and circumstances of the societies they were meant to serve and particularly the people who lived in urban areas. It was clear to the court that the application of the customary-law rules of succession in circumstances vastly different from their traditional setting caused much hardship.\n\nThe official rules of customary law were sometimes contrasted with what was referred to as \"living customary law,\" in which the rules were adapted to fit in with changed circumstances. The problem with these adaptations was that they were \"ad hoc\" and not uniform. Magistrates, and the courts responsible for the administration of intestate estates, continued to adhere to the rules of official customary law, with the consequent anomalies and hardships as a result of changes which have occurred in society.\n\nThe court held that customary law had thus been distorted in a manner that emphasised its patriarchal features while minimising its communitarian ones. The exclusion of women from inheritance on the grounds of gender was a clear violation of section 9(3) of the Constitution. It was a form of discrimination that entrenched past patterns of disadvantage among a vulnerable group, exacerbated by old notions of patriarchy and male domination incompatible with the guarantee of equality under the new constitutional order.\n\nThe principle of primogeniture also violated the right of women to human dignity, guaranteed by section 10 of the Constitution, because it implied that women were not fit or competent to own and administer property. Its effect was also to subject these women to a status of perpetual minority, placing them automatically under the control of male heirs, by virtue simply of their sex and gender. Their dignity was further affronted by the fact that, as women, they were also excluded from intestate succession and denied the right to be holders of and to control property.\n\nThe court decided that, to the extent that the primogeniture rule prevented all female children from inheriting, and significantly curtailed the inheritance rights of male extra-marital children, it discriminated against them, too. These were particularly vulnerable groups in South African society, which correctly placed much store in the well-being and protection of children who were ordinarily not in a position to protect themselves. In denying female and extra-marital children the ability and the opportunity to inherit from their deceased fathers, the application of the principle of primogeniture was also in violation of section 9(3) of the Constitution.\n\nThe primogeniture rule as applied to the customary law of succession could not be reconciled with the current notions of equality and human dignity as contained in the Bill of Rights. As the centerpiece of the customary-law system of succession, the rule violated the equality rights of women and was an affront to their dignity. In denying extra-marital children the right to inherit from their deceased fathers, it also discriminated unfairly against them and infringed their right to dignity as well. The result was that the limitation it imposed on the rights of those subject to it was not reasonable and justifiable in an open and democratic society founded on the values of equality, human dignity and freedom.\n\nThe court accordingly held that, as a result of the inconsistency of section 23 with the Constitution, regulation 2(e) also had to fall away. The customary-law rule of primogeniture, in its application to intestate succession, was not consistent with the equality protection under the Constitution. It followed that any finding in \"Mthembu v Letsela and Another\" which was at odds with this judgment could not stand.\n\nThe court held that the legislature was in the best position to deal with the situation and to safeguard the rights that had been violated by the impugned provisions. It was the appropriate forum to make the adjustments needed to rectify the defects identified in the customary law of succession. However, the task of preventing ongoing violations of human rights was urgent. The rights involved were very important, implicating the foundational values of the Constitution. The victims of the delays in rectifying the defects in the legal system were those who were among the most vulnerable of South African society. The court's task was to facilitate the cleansing of the statute book of legislation so deeply rooted in the country's unjust past, while preventing undue hardship and dislocation. The court had to fashion an effective and comprehensive order that would be operative until appropriate legislation was put in place. Any order by the court, however, should be regarded by the Legislature as an interim measure. It would be undesirable if the order were to be regarded as a permanent fixture of the customary law of succession.\n\nIn light of the wider relief requested by the South African Human Rights Commission and the Women's Legal Centre Trust, the relief given by the High Courts in both the \"Bhe\" and the \"Shibi\" cases fell to be reconsidered. It was also necessary to deal with the applicability of the order by the Constitutional Court to polygynous marriages. An appropriate order would be one that protected partners to monogamous and polygynous customary marriages as well as unmarried women and their respective children. This would ensure that their interests were protected until Parliament enacted a comprehensive scheme that would reflect the necessary development of the customary law of succession. It had to be clear, however, that no pronouncement was made in the present judgment on the constitutional validity of polygynous unions. In order to avoid possible inequality between the houses in such unions, the estate should devolve in such a way that persons in the same class or category received an equal share.\n\nThe advantage of using section 1 of the Intestate Succession Act as the basic mechanism for determining the content of the interim regime was that extra-marital children, women who were survivors in monogamous unions, unmarried women and all children would not be discriminated against. However, the section provided for only one surviving spouse and would need to be tailored to accommodate situations where there was more than one surviving spouse because the deceased was party to a polygynous union. This could be done by ensuring that sections 1(1)(c)(i) and 1(4)(f) of the Intestate Succession Act, which were concerned with providing for a child's share of the single surviving spouse and its calculation, should apply with three qualifications if the deceased is survived by more than one spouse:\n\n\nThe court held that the declaration of invalidity had to be made retrospective to 27 April 1994, but that it did not apply to any completed transfer of ownership to an heir who had no notice of a challenge to the legal validity of the statutory provisions and the customary-law rule in question. Furthermore, anything done pursuant to the winding-up of an estate in terms of the Act, other than the identification of heirs in a manner inconsistent with this judgment, would not be invalidated by the order of invalidity in respect of section 23 of the Act and its regulations.\n\nThe court held that the order made in this case did not mean that the relevant provisions of the Intestate Succession Act were fixed rules that had to be applied regardless of any agreement by all interested parties that the estate should devolve in a different way. The spontaneous development of customary law would continue to be hampered if this were to happen. The Intestate Succession Act did not preclude an estate devolving in accordance with an agreement reached among all interested parties, but in a way that was consistent with its provisions. Having regard to the vulnerable position in which some of the surviving family members might find themselves, care had to be taken to ensure that such agreements were genuine and not the result of the exploitation of the weaker members of the family by the strong. In this regard, a special duty rested on the Master of the High Court, the magistrates and other officials responsible for the administration of estates to ensure that no-one was prejudiced in the discussions leading to the purported agreements.\n\nThe present judgment was concerned with intestate deceased estates governed by section 23 of the Act only. All such estates had henceforth to be administered in terms of the present judgment. The question arose as to the role of the Master of the High Court, magistrates and other officials appointed by the Master. Section 4(1A) of the Administration of Estates Act provided that the Master did not have jurisdiction over estates that devolved in terms of customary law. The effect of this judgment was to bring about a change in that respect. The Master was no longer precluded from dealing with intestate deceased estates that were formerly governed by section 23 of the Act, since they would now fall under the terms of this judgment and not customary law.\n\nSection 23 of the Act and section 1(4)(b) of the Intestate Succession Act were declared inconsistent with the Constitution and invalid. The Regulations for the Administration and Distribution of the Estates of Deceased Blacks (R200) published in Government Gazette No 10601 dated 6 February 1987, as amended, were also invalid. The rule of male primogeniture as it applied in customary law to the inheritance of property was inconsistent with the Constitution and invalid to the extent that it excluded or hindered women and extra-marital children from inheriting property.\n\nSubject to the following, section 1 of the Intestate Succession Act applied to the intestate deceased estates that would formerly have been governed by section 23 of the Act. In the application of sections 1(1)(c)(i) and 1(4)(f) of the Intestate Succession Act to the estate of a deceased person who was survived by more than one spouse,\n\n\nIn terms of section 172(1)(b) of the Constitution, the court held that the transfer of ownership prior to the date of this order of any property pursuant to the distribution of an estate in terms of s 23 of the Act and its regulations could not be invalidated unless it was established that, when such transfer was taken, the transferee was on notice that the property in question was subject to a legal challenge on the grounds upon which the applicants brought challenges in this case. It was further declared that any estate that was being administered in terms of section 23 of the Act and its regulations would continue to be so administered until it was finally wound up, subject to paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 of the order of Court.\n\nNgcobo delivered a dissenting judgment in which he held that the rule of male primogeniture should be developed in order to bring it in line with the Bill of Rights.\n\n\n== References\n"}
{"id": "58114924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58114924", "title": "Bhul", "text": "Bhul\n\nBhul is a community that resides in the hilly region of Nepal. Bhul is one of the four castes in its region (Rosyara, Paneru, and Damai being the others).\n"}
{"id": "2783755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2783755", "title": "Boink", "text": "Boink\n\nBoink was a magazine of erotica started by Alecia Oleyourryk, a magazine journalism major at\nBoston University, and photographer Christopher Anderson. The magazine was also educational in scope and purpose. The premiere issue was released in February 2005 and was celebrated with an opening party at the Roxy, a nightclub in the Boston Theater District.\nThe reason that I like this magazine is that you can tell they are real college students... not those fake college students you find on the Internet. -- Howard Stern (BU Alum) \nThe magazine was available in both a print and online digital version. \"Boink\" catered to both men and women with articles dealing with sexuality in college life. All models were students from area colleges and of varying sexual orientations.\n\nIn 2008, a book based on the magazine was published by Warner Books, titled \"BOINK: College Sex by the People Having It.\"\n\nAs of 2010, the magazine has ceased publishing new issues, although the book can still be purchased online.\n\n"}
{"id": "34839208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34839208", "title": "Brunei Bisaya language", "text": "Brunei Bisaya language\n\nBisaya, also known as Southern Bisaya or Brunei Bisaya or Tutong language 1, is a Sabahan language spoken in Brunei and Sarawak, Malaysia.\n"}
{"id": "2009431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009431", "title": "Caracazo", "text": "Caracazo\n\nThe Caracazo, or sacudón, is the name given to the wave of protests, riots, looting, shootings and massacres that began on 27 February 1989 in Venezuela's capital, Caracas, and the surrounding towns. The weeklong clashes resulted in the deaths of hundreds of people, thousands by some accounts, mostly at the hands of security forces and the military. The riots and the protests began mainly in response to the government's economic reforms and the resulting increase in the price of gasoline and transportation.\n\nThe word \"Caracazo\" is the name of the city followed by the \"-azo\" suffix, which denotes a violent knock. Its translation could therefore be \"the Caracas smash\" or \"the big one in Caracas\". The name was inspired by the \"Bogotazo\", a massive riot in neighboring Colombia in 1948, which played a pivotal role in that country's history. \"Sacudón\" is from \"sacudir\" (to shake) and means something along the lines of \"the day that shook the country\" (see Spanish nouns: Other suffixes).\n\nThe words are pronounced and , respectively.\n\nA fall in oil prices in the mid-1980s caused an economic crisis to take hold in Venezuela, and the country had accrued significant levels of debt. Nevertheless, the administration of the left-leaning President Jaime Lusinchi was able to restructure the country's debt repayments and offset an economic crisis but allow for the continuation of the government's policies of social spending and state-sponsored subsidies.\n\nLusinchi's political party, the Democratic Action, was able to remain in power following the 1988 election of Carlos Andrés Pérez as president. Pérez then proposed a major shift in policy by implementing neoliberal economic reforms recommended by the International Monetary Fund (IMF). The program, called \"El Gran Viraje\" (The Great Turn), but popularly known as the \"paquete\" (the \"package\"), was contrary to statements made during Pérez's populist campaign in which he had described the IMF as \"a neutron bomb that killed people, but left buildings standing.\"\n\nMeasures taken by Pérez included privatizing state companies, tax reform, reducing customs duties, and diminishing the role of the state in the economy. He also took measures to decentralize and modernize the Venezuelan political system by the direct election of state governors, who had previously been appointed by the president. The most controversial part of the economic reform package was the elimination of the gasoline subsidies, which had long maintained domestic gasoline prices far beneath international levels and even the production costs. When the subsidy was eliminated, gasoline prices rose by as much as 100% and so the costs of public transportation rose by 30%.\n\nWeeks before the outbreak of rioting, Carlos Andrés Pérez was inaugurated on 2 February 1989. During the \"lavish ceremony\", Fidel Castro and other Cuban personnel entered Venezuela for the event. With Cuba recently entering its Special Period, experiencing economic difficulties as a result of the Soviet Union's Perestroika, Castro allegedly sought to establish an ally in Venezuela so Cuba could also enjoy funds oil profits. The group of Cubans allegedly established a headquarters at the nearly finished Eurobuilding Hotel in Caracas and after the event, Venezuelan intelligence reported that less Cuban personnel departed from Venezuela than arrived. Cuban sleeper agents then allegedly waited for unrest to occur in Venezuela so they could exacerbate political tensions.\n\nThe protests and rioting began on the morning of February 27, 1989, in Guarenas, a town in Miranda State about east of Caracas, by the steep increase in public transportation prices. The protests and rioting quickly spread to the capital and other towns across the country. A lack of timely intervention by authorities - some police were under orders not to take action - led to the Metropolitan Police quickly being overwhelmed. Despite initial debate within the government over how to manage the situation, a heavyhanded approach was implemented, with a state of emergency and martial law being imposed.\n\nOn February 28, Pérez suspended a number of articles of the Constitution, including Article 60 (right to individual liberty and security), Article 62 (inviolability of the home), Article 66 (freedom of expression), Article 71 (right to gather publicly and privately), and Article 115 (right to peaceful protest). The rights were not completely restored until March 22, and in the interim, there was no official decree or resolution to define how government authority would be exercised in the absence of those constitutional rights.\n\nBy the time authorities encountered the scenes of rioting, citizens began firing weapons at officers, with ensuing firefights resulted in many bystanders being killed by \"bullets from army troops and from sniping protesters\". In many poor areas, citizens destroyed their own local commercial facilities, with food markets so damaged that their food distribution system was ruined. Much of the rioters destroyed properties indiscriminately, with no motives related to initial protests. According to Amnesty International, tactics used by security forces included \"disappearances,\" the use of torture, and extrajudicial killings. As part of the government's security forces, members of Hugo Chávez's MBR-200 allegedly participated in the crackdown. Chávez himself was sick that day with the measles. As tensions eased, troops began to sweep through neighborhoods collecting appliances and cash registers, telling citizens that if they provided a certificate of purchase, the items would be returned.\n\nThe initial official pronouncements said 276 people had died but many estimates put the number at above 2,000. Shortages of coffins were reported and many Venezuelans had to line up at government food distribution centers since markets were destroyed by rioters. Insurance estimates of damage caused during the rioting were $90 million CAD ($120 million 2017 USD).\n\nOn March 3, 1989, Pérez spoke with U.S. President George H. W. Bush. President Bush offered President Pérez a US$450 million emergency loan. Pérez thanked Bush and asked him to support a change in debt policy toward Latin America: \"I want to tell you if there is no change in [international] debt policy then whatever we may do here may be useless.\" Pérez told Bush that he had sent him a letter several days earlier and that he would appreciate it if he would read it.\n\nThe clearest consequence of the \"Caracazo\" was political instability. The following February, the army was called to contain similar riots in Puerto La Cruz and Barcelona and again in June, when rising of transportation costs ended in riots in Maracaibo and other cities. The reforms were modified.\n\nThe MBR-200 repudiated the Caracazo and accelerated its preparation for a coup d'état against the Perez government. In 1992 there were two attempted coups in February and November. Pérez was later accused of corruption and removed from the presidency. Chávez, a MBR-200 leader and an organiser of one of the coups, was found guilty of sedition and incarcerated. However, he was subsequently pardoned by Pérez's successor, Rafael Caldera, and he went on to be elected president after the latter. Chavez later explained that after the event, \"the members of the MBR 200 realized we had passed the point of no return and we had to take up arms. We could not continue to defend a murderous regime.\"\n\nIn 1998, the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights condemned the government's action and referred the case to the Inter-American Court of Human Rights. In 1999, the Court heard the case and found that the government had committed violations of human rights, including extrajudicial killings. The Venezuelan government, by then headed by Chávez, did not contest the findings of the case and accepted full responsibility for the government's actions.\n\nIn August 2009, Defense Minister Italo del Valle Alliegro was charged in relation to the \"Caracazo\". In July 2010, the Supreme Court overturned an appeal court ruling, which had declared the case covered by a statute of limitations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7481621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7481621", "title": "Census in Pakistan", "text": "Census in Pakistan\n\nThe Census in Pakistan (), is a decennial census and a descriptive count of Pakistan's population on Census Day, and of their dwellings, conducted and supervised by the Bureau of Statistics of the Ministry of Finance and Statistics. The 2017 Census in Pakistan marks the first census to take place in Pakistan since 1998. The next census is scheduled for 2027. \n\nA national census is mandated by the Constitution of Pakistan to be held every ten years. After the independence of Pakistan in 1947, the first census took place in 1951 under Finance Minister Sir Malik Ghulam, serving under Prime Minister Liaquat Ali Khan. Since 1951, there have been only 6 nationwide censuses (1961, 1972, 1981, 1998 and 2017). Delays and postponements have often been due to politicization. Pakistan's last completed census took place in 2017. The next national census was scheduled to take place in 2001 and later 2008, and again in 2010, but none of those plans could materialize. There were multiple census counts completed for the latest round in April 2012, but were subsequently thrown out as being \"unreliable\". A UN led census was to be conducted with staff training and GPS digitisation. As of 2015, the population of Pakistan is estimated at 191.71 million. As of 2016, the population of religious minorities in Pakistan have increased to 3 million. On August 25, 2017, the official results declared Pakistan's population to be 207.74 million.\n\nAccording to 1951 census, Dominion of Pakistan(both east and West Pakistan) had a population of 75 million population, in which West Pakistan had a population of 33.7 million and East Pakistan( modern Bangladesh) had a population of 42 million. In 1951, Hindus constituted 12.9% of the Pakistani population (this includes East Pakistan, modern day Bangladesh),which made Dominion of Pakistan second biggest Hindu-population country after India. In the 1951 census, West Pakistan had 1.6% Hindu population, while East Pakistan (modern Bangladesh) had 22.05%. After Partition of India in 1947, two-thirds of the Muslims resided in Pakistan (both east and West Pakistan) but a third resided in India.\n\nAccording to the 1961 census, the population of Pakistan was 93 million, with 42.8 million residing in West Pakistan and 50 million residing in East Pakistan. The literacy was 19.2%, in which East Pakistan had a literacy rate of 21.5% while West Pakistan had a literacy rate of 16.9%. Hindus in East Pakistan were 18.4% while the population growth rate was 2.4%.\n\nThe scheduled 1971 Census was postponed due to the political crisis of 1970 followed by the War of 1971 and subsequent loss of East Pakistan. In 1970, the population was 65 million in the east Pakistan and 58 million in the west Pakistan.\n\nAccording to the 1972 census, the population of Pakistan was 65.3 million. After 1972, the Census Organization was merged into the Ministry of Interior.\n\nAccording to the 1981 census, the population of Pakistan was 83.783 million.\n\nAccording to the 1998 census, the population of Pakistan was 132,352,279..\n\nAccording to the 2017 census official results, declared on August 25, 2017, the population of Pakistan was 207,774,521.\n\nThe seventh national census is scheduled to take place in 2027.\n"}
{"id": "5269405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5269405", "title": "Charles Ogletree", "text": "Charles Ogletree\n\nCharles James Ogletree, Jr. (born December 31, 1952) is an American attorney and law professor who is currently the Jesse Climenko Professor at Harvard Law School, the founder of the school's Charles Hamilton Houston Institute, and the author of numerous books on legal topics.\n\nOgletree was born in Merced, central California. He earned both his B.A. (1974, with distinction) and M.A. (1975) in political science from Stanford University and his J.D. from Harvard Law School in 1978.\n\nAfter graduating from law school, Ogletree worked for the District of Columbia Public Defender Service until 1985, first as a staff attorney, then as training director, trial chief, and deputy director. As an attorney, he has represented such notable figures as Tupac Shakur and Anita Hill In 1985, he became a professor at Harvard Law School. In 1992, he became the Jesse Climenko Professor of Law and vice dean for clinical programs.\n\nModerator of television programs, including State of the Black Union; Where Do We Go from Here: Chaos or Community; (with others) Ethics in America; Hard Drugs, Hard Choices, Liberty and Limits: Whose Law, Whose Order?; Credibility in the Newsroom, Race to Execution, 2006; Beyond Black and White; Liberty & Limits: Whose Law, Whose Order?; That Delicate Balance II: Our Bill of Rights; and other Public Broadcasting Service broadcasts.\n\nHe was a guest on many television programs, including Nightline, \"This Week with David Brinkley\", \"McNeil-Lehrer News Hour\", \"Crossfire\", \"Today Show\", \"Good Morning America\", \"Larry King Live\", \"Cochran and Company :Burden of Proof\", Tavis Smiley, \"Frontline\", \"America's Black Forum\", and \"Meet the Press\"\n\nOn NBC news radio, he was a legal commentator on the O. J. Simpson murder case.\n\nHe contributed to periodicals such as \"New Crisis\", \"Public Utilities Fortnightly\", and \"Harvard Law Review\".\n\nIn 2003 he visited the University of Washington, Seattle, to speak on reparations. At the time several of the majority-Black audience asked him how much money could potentially be wrought from reparations. While Ogletree would not elaborate on a particular number he seemed to support an audience member's suggestion of more than $2 trillion or more.\n\nIn February 2011, he gave a three-part lecture at Harvard Law School entitled \"Understanding Obama\", which provides an inside look at President Barack Obama's journey from boyhood in Hawaii to the White House. Professor Ogletree is set to publish a book about President Obama, but will not release it until after the 2012 Presidential election.\n\nOgletree appears in the 2014 documentary film \"Hate Crimes in the Heartland\", providing an analysis of the Tulsa Race Riots.\n\nHe was a member of the board of trustees at Stanford University. He founded the Merced, California scholarships. He was the chairman of the board of trustees of University of the District of Columbia. He used to be the national president of the Black Law Students Association.\n\nOgletree taught both Barack and Michelle Obama at Harvard; he has remained close to Barack Obama throughout his political career. He appeared briefly on the joint \"The Daily Show\"-\"Colbert Report\" election night coverage of the 2008 presidential election, making a few remarks about his personal knowledge of the Obamas.\n\nOgletree has written opinion pieces on the state of race in the United States for major publications. Ogletree also served as the moderator for a panel discussion on civil rights in baseball on March 28, 2008, that accompanied the second annual Major League Baseball civil rights exhibition game the following day between the New York Mets and the Chicago White Sox.\n\nOn July 21, 2009, Ogletree issued a statement in response to the arrest of his Harvard colleague and client, Professor Henry Louis Gates, Jr., whose arrest at his own home became a major news story about the nexus of politics, police power, and race that summer. Professor Ogletree later wrote a book about the events titled \"The Presumption of Guilt: The Arrest of Henry Louis Gates, Jr. and Race, Class and Crime in America\".\n\nAfter the September 2009 death of Senator Ted Kennedy, Ogletree's name was suggested as one of the possible appointees to Kennedy's seat as a \"placeholder\" until a special election could be held. Other names rumored to be in contention were Michael Dukakis and several people who had held important Massachusetts or national Democratic positions: Paul G. Kirk (a former chair of the Democratic National Committee), Nick Littlefield (a former Kennedy chief of staff), Robert Travaglini, and Shannon O'Brien.\n\nHe is a founder of the Benjamin Banneker Charter Public School (www.banneker.org) and serves on the school's foundation board. The school library is named in his honor.\n\nOn July 13, 2016, a Tweet on Ogletree's Twitter account (@CharlesOgletree) linked to a website of the Charles Hamilton Houston Institute stating that Ogletree had recently been diagnosed with early-stage Alzheimer's disease.\n\nIn 2004 Harvard disciplined Ogletree for the plagiarism of six paragraphs from Yale scholar Jack Balkin's book, \"What Brown v. Board of Education Should Have Said\" in his own book, \"All Deliberate Speed: Reflections on the First Half-Century of Brown v. Board of Education\". Ogletree apologized, saying that he \"made a serious mistake during the editorial process of completing this book, and delegated too much responsibility to others during the final editing process.\" Former Harvard President Derek C. Bok concluded, \"There was no deliberate wrongdoing at all ... He marshaled his assistants and parceled out the work and in the process some quotation marks got lost.”\n\nHe received the National Conference on Black Lawyers People's Lawyer of the Year Award, the Man of Vision Award, Museum of Afro-American History (Boston), the Albert Sacks-Paul A. Freund Award for Teaching Excellence, Harvard Law School in 1993, the Ellis Island Medal of Honor, 1995, the Ruffin-Fenwick Trailblazer Award, and the 21st Century Achievement Award, Urban League of Eastern Massachusetts.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42766304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42766304", "title": "Child health in Uganda", "text": "Child health in Uganda\n\nChildren in Uganda are regularly exposed to many preventable health risks. According to the WHO, the country ranks 175th out of 193 eligible countries in life expectancy. The country also ranks 168 out of 188 in infant mortality rates, with a lower rank reflecting lower infant mortality. There are many cultural factors influencing the current health status of Uganda including the negative stigmas associated with sex, and the wood-burning stoves. The former of these has resulted in a severe lack in education and communication necessary to improve the health and well-being of children.\n\nHIV/AIDS is likely the leading health risk facing Ugandan children; it affects many facets of their physical and mental health in a variety of ways. It is the leading cause of death in Uganda, as reported by the Center for Disease Control (CDC) in 2010.\n\nThe CDC has been fairly active in the country, working in cooperation with government organizations as well as a number of other partners. Their work has been on multiple fronts including door to door HIV counseling and testing. Despite these and many other efforts, there are poor rates of treatment of children. Of the 190,000 HIV-positive children in Uganda, only 35,500 received Antiretroviral medication (ARV). Uganda is not alone in this, in 21 high burden African countries, only 34 percent of eligible children receive ARVs, compared to 68 percent of adults.\n\nIn addition, many of the children that receive medication have been found to lack necessary diligence in their drug therapy routine. Many children find the medication unpleasant and are not even aware of their HIV status. Part of this can be attributed to lapses in communication. For example, it is common practice not to inform children of their HIV status until they reach 13 years of age. Sexual lifestyles are typically frowned upon in Uganda, particularly for women, which contributes to a poor dissemination of sexual related health information.\n\nResearch has shown that efforts to improve health and awareness of parents and guardians, as well as the communities, of children with HIV/AIDS could be an effective way to improve treatment. Increased education and awareness can help with communication breakdowns and access to resources. These efforts can also help decrease mother-to-child transmissions.\n\nIt is estimated that 91,000 infants are born each year to HIV-positive women. Only 51.6 percent of these women receive any sort of mother-to-child HIV prevention and about 24 percent of all 110,000 new HIV infections in Uganda in 2009 were a result of mother-to-child transmission. A study published by the World Health Organization (WHO) found that antiretroviral therapy (ART) is a very effective management strategy, in terms of efficacy as well as cost, for prevention of mother-to-child transmissions. In addition, often material support for parents/guardians can be an effective strategy in improving care and treatment of children, including funding for food, clothing, and educational expenses.\n\nTo date, most of Uganda's policies to combat AIDS have focused on abstinence and fidelity, both preventative measures while little action has been taken around youth education. The main tool of this strategy is the controversial ABC campaign (Abstinence, Be faithful, and use Condoms). While initially believed to be a successful approach, the effectiveness of this strategy is currently inconclusive as more recent studies have found that increased condom use and deaths have been responsible for the decreases in HIV infections.\n\nMalnutrition plagues much of Uganda's youth. According to a study by the World Food Programme (WFP), roughly one third of Ugandan children have stunting, a permanent condition resulting from lack of proper nutrition during the first 5 years of life. Consequences of this have been found to be very costly to the Ugandan government and economy, with estimated losses totaling at US $899 million annually, or 5 percent of the country's GDP.\n\nWhile many efforts are currently in place in Uganda to distribute vaccinations to children, it is still a very serious health concern. About 2 million deaths each year in Uganda are a result of vaccine preventable diseases. Tuberculosis is one example of these, which was found to be the 4th leading cause of death in Uganda in 2010 according to the CDC. In 2001, it was found that 63% of children less than one year old had either failed to complete their vaccination schedule or not had any vaccinations at all. A 2012 study found that vaccination rates can be improved by providing additional support to mothers to enable them to make use of immunization services.\n\nTraditionally in Uganda, as in most developing countries, open word-burning stoves are commonly used for cooking and to heat homes. It has been estimated that 95 percent of Ugandans rely on wood or charcoal for cooking.\n\nOne health issue facing female children specifically in Uganda as well as many other developing countries is the inability to afford sanitary pads. Besides the obvious health and sanitation concerns, this problem also often has harmful effects on education. Evaluations by the Kasiisi Project, a non-profit organization working in rural Western Uganda, found that girls will often skip school or drop out altogether as a result of menstruation and insufficient resources and facilities associated with it.\n\nIn 2008, Janet Museveni launched the Road Map campaign in an effort to coordinate efforts to lower maternal and neonatal death rates in Uganda.\n"}
{"id": "29613982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29613982", "title": "En language", "text": "En language\n\nEn (autonym: '; also known as Nùng Vên) is a Kra language spoken in Vietnam. Before its discovery in 1998, En language was undistinguished from Nùng, which is a Central Tai language closely related to Zhuang. In the late 1990s, Vietnamese linguist Hoàng Văn Ma had first recognized that it was not a Tai language, ultimately leading to field work distinguishing En as a separate language. Researchers have determined En to be one of the Buyang languages.\n\nThe speakers of En live in northern Vietnam near the border with Jingxi County, Guangxi. In 1998, En speakers were found 12 km to the east of Hà Quảng city in Nội Thôn village, Hà Quảng District, Cao Bằng Province.\n\nEn has 6 tones: (/54, 243, 332, 33, 212, 32/).\n\n"}
{"id": "53876816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53876816", "title": "Euro key", "text": "Euro key\n\nEuro key (German: Euroschlüssel) is a locking system, which has been introduced in 1986 by the CBF Darmstadt - Club Behinderter und Freunde in Darmstadt and environs, and is now uniform throughout Germany, Austria and Switzerland. It enables people with physical disabilities to access their handicapped facilities and facilities free of charge For example public toilets at motorways and train stations, but also for public toilets in pedestrian zones, museums or public authorities (partly also in special elevators to ensure accessibility). A total of 12,000 locks has been fitted throughout Europe\n"}
{"id": "20622556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20622556", "title": "Expenditure incidence", "text": "Expenditure incidence\n\nExpenditure incidence is the effect of government expenditure upon the distribution of private incomes. This is commonly contrasted with benefit incidence as an approach to planning and measuring the effect of a government spending programme. A pioneering analysis of this was made by the economist Richard Musgrave in his major work, \"The Theory of Public Finance\".\n\nEstablishing the differential effect of expenditure in this way is difficult because the effect of differing policies upon taxation and overall expenditure must be normalised and it is hard to model and measure the flows of money which result.\n\nAn analysis will commonly be structured in three stages:\n\n"}
{"id": "6271500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6271500", "title": "Farhatullah Babar", "text": "Farhatullah Babar\n\nFarhatullah Babar () is a Pakistani technocrat, left-wing politician, chemical engineer, and former press secretary of the former President Asif Zardari.\n\nPrior to this appointment, Babar was the senator of Pakistan Peoples Party for the Senate from 2003 till 2006; he earned public limelight after giving criticism to the Prime minister Shaukat Aziz and President Pervez Musharraf. He is also an influential engineering figure and previously served as the president of Pakistan Engineering Council for a decade, known for improving the engineering practices in the country.\n\nBabar earned BE in chemical engineering in 1965, and followed that by his ME in chemical engineering, in 1967, from University of Engineering and Technology of Peshawar. In 1981, he did a one-year-long course in French Language and received a diploma in 1981.\n\nAfter graduation from UET Peshawar in engineering, Babar joined the engineering he Pakistani scientist that they would have to defend themselves in any eventuality which becomes too hot to handle for the government\".\"\n\nOn 17 September 2007, Benazir Bhutto accused Pervez Musharraf's allies of pushing Pakistan to crisis by refusal to restore democracy and share power. A nine-member panel of Supreme Court judges deliberated on 6 petitions (including Jamaat-e-Islami's, Pakistan's largest Islamic group) for disqualification of Musharraf as presidential candidate. Bhutto stated that her party may join other opposition groups, including Nawaz Sharif's. Attorney General of Pakistan Malik Mohammed Qayyum stated that, pendente lite, the Election Commission was \"reluctant\" to announce the schedule for the presidential vote. Bhutto's party's Farhatullah Babar stated that the Constitution could bar Musharraf from being elected again because he holds the army chief's post. \"\"As Gen. Musharraf is disqualified from contesting for President, he has prevailed upon the Election Commission to arbitrarily and illegally tamper with the Constitution of Pakistan\".\"\n\n"}
{"id": "40798183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40798183", "title": "Female infanticide in China", "text": "Female infanticide in China\n\nThe People's Republic of China and its predecessors have a history of female infanticide spanning 2000 years. Worldwide, the practice of infanticide has been practiced since antiquity for the purpose of population control. It is an unsanctioned method of family planning that has been condoned for centuries in the area until recent times. The phenomenon is also referred to as \"female gendercide\"; however, the word \"gendercide\" can be used for both sexes.\n\nThe practice of female infanticide was far from wholly condoned in China. Buddhists wrote that the killing of young girls would bring bad karma, conversely those who saved a young girl's life either through intervening or through presents of money or food would earn good karma leading to a prosperous life, as well as long life and success for their sons. However, the Buddhist belief in reincarnation meant that the death of an infant was not final as the child would be reborn, and this belief eased guilty feelings over female infanticide. \n\nThe Confucian attitude towards female infanticide was conflicted. By valuing age over youth, Confucian filial piety lessened the value of children, whilst the Confucian belief of Ren led Confucian intellectuals to support the idea that female infanticide was wrong and that the practice would upset the balance between yin and yang.\n\nWhen Christian missionaries arrived in China in the late sixteenth century, they witnessed newborns being thrown into rivers or onto rubbish piles. In the seventeenth century Matteo Ricci documented that the practice occurred in several of China's provinces and said that the primary reason for the practice was poverty. The practice continued into the 19th century and declined precipitously during the Communist era, but has reemerged as an issue since the introduction of the one-child policy in the early 1980s. The census of 1990 showed an overall male-to-female sex ratio of 1.066, while a normal sex ratio for all ages should be less than 1.02.\n\nDuring the 19th century the practice was widespread. Readings from Qing texts show a prevalence of the term \"ni nü\" (to drown girls), and drowning was the most common method used to kill female children. Other methods used were suffocation and starvation. Exposure to the elements was another method: the child would be placed in a basket which was then placed in a tree. Buddhist nunneries created \"baby towers\" for people to leave a child. In 1845 in the province of Jiangxi, a missionary wrote that these children survived for up to two days while exposed to the elements, and that those passing by, would ignore the screaming child. Missionary David Abeel reported in 1844 that between one third and one fourth of all female children were killed at birth or soon after.\n\nIn 1878 French Jesuit missionary, Gabriel Palatre, collated documents from 13 provinces and the \"Annales de la Sainte-Enfance\" (Annals of the Holy Childhood), also found evidence of infanticide in Shanxi and Sichuan. According to the information collated by Palatre the practice was more widespread in the southeastern provinces and the Lower Yangzi River region.\n\nIn 1930, Rou Shi, a noted member of the May Fourth Movement, wrote the short story \"A Slave-Mother\". In it he portrayed the extreme poverty in rural communities that was a direct cause of female infanticide.\n\nA white paper published by the Chinese government in 1980 stated that the practice of female infanticide was a \"feudalistic evil\". The state officially considers the practice a carryover from feudal times, not a result of the state's one-child policy. According to Jing-Bao Nie, it would be \"inconceivable\" to believe there is \"no link\" between the state's family planning policies and female infanticide.\n\nOn 25 September 1980 in an \"open letter\", the Politburo of the Communist Party of China requested that members of the party, and those in the Communist youth league, lead by example and have only one child. From the beginning of the one-child policy, there were concerns that it would lead to an imbalance in the sex ratio. Early in the 1980s, senior officials became increasingly concerned with reports of abandonment and female infanticide by parents desperate for a son. In 1984, the government attempted to address the issue by adjusting the one-child policy to allow couples whose first child is a girl to have a second child.\n\nMany Chinese couples desire to have sons because they traditionally carry on the family name and provide support and security to their aging parents later in life. On the contrary, a daughter is expected to leave her parents upon marriage to join and care for her husband’s family. In rural households, which as of 2014 constitute almost half the Chinese population, males are additionally valuable for performing agricultural work and manual labor.\n\nA 2005 intercensus survey demonstrated pronounced differences in sex ratio across provinces, ranging from 1.04 in Tibet to 1.43 Jiangxi. Banister (2004), in her literature review on China’s shortage of girls, suggested that there has been a resurgence in the prevalence of female infanticide following the introduction of the one-child policy. On the other hand, many researchers have argued that female infanticide is rare in China today, especially since the government has outlawed the practice. Zeng and colleagues (1993), for example, contended that at least half of the nation’s gender imbalance arises from the underreporting of female births.\n\nAccording to the Geneva Centre for the Democratic Control of Armed Forces (DCAF), the demographic shortfall of female babies who have died for gender related issues is in the same range as the 191 million estimated dead accounting for all conflicts in the twentieth century. In 2012 the documentary \"\" was released. It focused on female infanticide in India and China.\n\nAs a result of female infanticide and sex-selective abortion combined, there are an estimated 30–40 million more men than women in China today. This female deficit is expected to generate a wide range of adverse social, political, and economic consequences.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42747595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42747595", "title": "Four Dan Actresses", "text": "Four Dan Actresses\n\nFour Dan actresses (四旦 or 四大名旦 or 四小名旦 or 四大花旦 or 四小花旦) is a Chinese term referring to the four most bankable young actresses from Mainland China in the early 2000s: Zhang Ziyi, Zhao Wei, Zhou Xun, and Xu Jinglei, then all in their 20s. The designation was first made by a \"Guangzhou Daily\" editorial in July 2000. It gained widespread use in China following a series of interviews on \"Southern Metropolis Daily\" from December 2001 to January 2002. As expected, the four actresses dominated Chinese cinema in the following decade with varying degrees of success.\n\nOriginally, a \"Dan\" is a male actor who portrayed a leading female character in Peking opera. The term \"Four Dan\" was first coined in the 1920s to refer to four extremely popular \"Dan\" actors: Mei Lanfang, Cheng Yanqiu, Shang Xiaoyun, and Xun Huisheng.\n\n\nSometimes Li Bingbing and Fan Bingbing, two mainland actresses who had similar levels of success in the first decade of 2000s, were mentioned along with the group as \"Four Dan and Two Bing\" (四旦双冰).\n\nFrom 2005, the media and articles by publication companies have reported efforts to pick four new young actresses as the \"New Four Dan actresses\" (四小花旦).\n\n2009 version by Tencent QQ:\n\n2013 version by \"Southern Metropolis Daily\": \n\nTang Yan and Zhao Liying, two mainland actresses who had similar levels of success post 2013, are usually associated with the new Four Dan Actresses of the 2013 list.\n\nIn August 2016, \"Southern Metropolis Daily\" conducted a survey among 173 million netizens and 110 professional media and industry insiders. After a series of voting, four actresses who were born after the '90s (90后四小花旦) were picked.\n\n\nIn the early 1990s, Hong Kong's most popular male stars were collectively referred to as \"Four Heavenly Kings\" (Andy Lau, Jacky Cheung, Aaron Kwok and Leon Lai). Later Taiwan also introduced four male idols labelled \"Four Younger Heavenly Kings\" (Alec Su, Nicky Wu, Jimmy Lin and Takeshi Kaneshiro).\n"}
{"id": "30964561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30964561", "title": "FreightCar America", "text": "FreightCar America\n\nFreightCar America is a manufacturer of freight cars for the railway industry.\n\nThe company began operations in 1901, and is headquartered in Chicago, Illinois. It is engaged in the business of building, repairing, and leasing freight cars, largely for the transportation of bulk materials like coal, metals, wood products and automobiles. In addition to the freight cars it constructs, the company also manufactures parts for use in cars built by other companies.\n\nIt owns three factories—one in Danville, Illinois, one in Cherokee, Alabama and one in Roanoke, Virginia. The facility in Roanoke was closed in 2009 due to weak economic conditions, but it was announced on 21 February 2011 that it would reopen after an order for 1,500 coal cars from the Norfolk Southern Railway.\n\nIn 2008, the company produced 10,349 freight cars, but its output decreased to 3,377 cars in 2009. During fiscal year 2010, FreightCar America had a profit of $36.52 million on revenue of $141.3 million.\n\nIn June 2014 the Danville plant brought back over 100 employees with promises of work and being able to retire from the plant. They are set to be laid off indefinitely the end of February 2016.\n\nIn mid-February 2017 the company announced layoffs at its Roanoke plant. This was followed by an announcement at the end of March 2017 that FreightCar America would idle the plant in June.\n\nOn August 2, 2018 it was announced that The Andersons Inc. had signed an agreement to purchase FreightCar America Inc.'s rail-car facility in Danville, Illinois. The Andersons' goal is to turn the former freight-car manufacturing plant into a full-service freight and tank rail-car repair shop. The Andersons Rail Group will provide rail-car repair, painting, blasting, cleaning, tank-car certification and scrapping at the facility. Located along the CSX network, the 308,000-square-foot facility can store up to 400 rail cars.\n\nOn October 25, 2016, a shooting occurred at a FreightCar America building in Roanoke, Virginia. Getachew Fekede, a 53-year-old former employee and Kenyan refugee who moved to the U.S. in 2011, fired ten rounds from a 9mm handgun, killing an employee and wounding three others. He then committed suicide. Police said the shooting appeared to be an act of workplace violence, but added that the possibility of terrorism will be investigated.\n\n"}
{"id": "47669808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47669808", "title": "Gadam Samuel Luke", "text": "Gadam Samuel Luke\n\nBishop G. S. Luke was the fourth Bishop in Dornakal Diocese of the Church of South India occupying the Cathedra in the CSI-Epiphany Cathedral in Dornakal from 1980 to 1986.\n\nAfter early schooling at the mission schools in Jagtial, Medak and Secunderabad, Luke went to Madras in 1940 and studied at the Madras Christian College, Tambaram. After discerning his avocation towards priesthood, Solomon moved to the United Theological College, Bangalore where he studied from 1945-1948 for the graduate course leading to Bachelor of Divinity awarded by the Senate of Serampore College (University), India's first {a University under Section 2 (f) of the University Grants Commission Act, 1956} with degree-granting authority validated by a Danish Charter and ratified by the Government of West Bengal.\n\nAfter his ordination in 1950 by Bishop A. B. Elliott, Luke ministered in the parishes of Diocese of Dornakal. In 1962, he went on a sabbatical to Episcopal Diocese of Olympia and on his return continued to pastor in the Diocese of Dornakal. In 1979, Bishop P. Solomon retired on attaining superannuation and the bishopric remained sede vacante. The Church of South India Synod appointed G. S. Luke whose consecration took place at the CSI-Epiphany Cathedral, Dornakal by N. D. Ananda Rao Samuel and Solomon Doraiswamy.\n\nLuke was the brother of the educationist, G. S. Prakasha Rao. In 1983, Luke attended a national colloquium in Madras on \"Christian perspectives on contemporary Indian issues\" in which K. M. Mammen Mappillai also happened to take part. On his bishopric, Luke became a member of the Board of Governors of the Andhra Christian Theological College, Hyderabad in which the Diocese of Dornakal also has a stake.\n\nIn 1985, G. S. Luke retired on attaining superannuation resulting in sede vacante. Church of South India Synod filled it in 1986 with the appointment of D. N. Samuel.\n\nM. Edwin Rao who compiled a centennial edition of the CSI-Diocese of Dornakal writes that G. S. Luke was a writer who used to contribute articles to the Telugu language magazine \"Kapari\" edited by the Baptist Pastor, A. B. Masilamani of the Convention of Baptist Churches of Northern Circars.\n"}
{"id": "34005329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34005329", "title": "Georgians in Belarus", "text": "Georgians in Belarus\n\nEthnic Georgians in Belarus number exactly 2,400 as of the country's 2009 census, and live mainly in the capital Minsk. They mainly came during the Soviet era as labor migrants, or were displaced during Soviet relocation.\n\nThey are keeping their cultural heritage, speak Georgian language and belong to Georgian Orthodox Church.\n"}
{"id": "10573902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10573902", "title": "German-Russian macaronic language", "text": "German-Russian macaronic language\n\nThe German-Russian pidgin is a macaronic language of mixed German and Russian that appears to have arisen in the early 1990s. It is sometimes known as Deutschrussisch in German or Nemrus in Russian. Some speakers of the mixed language refer to it as Quelia. It is spoken by some russophone immigrants in Germany from the former Soviet Union.\n\nRussian acts as the linguistic substratum, supplying the syntactic structure into which German words are inserted. The German content varies from speaker to speaker, but can be as high as 50% of the vocabulary. The situation is somewhat akin to Spanglish in the United States. \n\nGender may be influenced by Russian genders, as in the case of most words ending in '-ung', which are always feminine in German, but usually masculine in the mixed language because Russian nouns ending in a hard consonant are always masculine. However, some words inherit their gender from the German noun, as in the feminine \"какая хорошая\" from German feminine \"die Überraschung\", meaning 'surprise'.\n\nA mixed language makes greater use of the uncommon Russian auxiliary verbs \"иметь\" , meaning 'to have' and \"быть\" , meaning 'to be'. The corresponding verbs (\"haben\" and \"sein\" respectively) are very common in German. \n\nGerman verbs are often treated in a sentence as though they were Russian verbs, being russified by replacing the German infinitive verb ending. \"-(e)n\" with the Russian \"-\". For example, German \"spüren\" becomes \"шпюрать\" , 'to feel'\n\nThe following features vary from speaker to speaker:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "325232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=325232", "title": "Greenwashing", "text": "Greenwashing\n\nGreenwashing (a compound word modelled on \"whitewash\"), also called \"green sheen\", is a form of spin in which green PR or green marketing is deceptively used to promote the perception that an organization's products, aims or policies are environmentally friendly. Evidence that an organization is greenwashing often comes from pointing out the spending differences: when significantly more money or time has been spent advertising being \"green\" (that is, operating with consideration for the environment), than is actually spent on environmentally sound practices. Greenwashing efforts can range from changing the name or label of a product to evoke the natural environment on a product that contains harmful chemicals to multimillion-dollar advertising campaigns portraying highly polluting energy companies as eco-friendly.\nPublicized accusations of greenwashing have contributed to the term's increasing use.\n\nWhile greenwashing is not new, its use has increased over recent years to meet consumer demand for environmentally friendly goods and services. The problem is compounded by lax enforcement by regulatory agencies such as the Federal Trade Commission in the United States, the Competition Bureau in Canada, and the Committee of Advertising Practice and the Broadcast Committee of Advertising Practice in the United Kingdom. Critics of the practice suggest that the rise of greenwashing, paired with ineffective regulation, contributes to consumer skepticism of all green claims, and diminishes the power of the consumer in driving companies toward greener solutions for manufacturing processes and business operations. Many corporate structures use greenwashing as a way to repair public perception of their brand. The structuring of corporate disclosure is often set up so as to maximize perceptions of legitimacy. However, a growing body of social and environmental accounting research finds that, in the absence of external monitoring a verification, greenwashing strategies amount to corporate posturing and deception.\n\nThe term \"greenwashing\" was coined by New York environmentalist Jay Westervelt in a 1986 essay regarding the hotel industry's practice of placing placards in each room promoting reuse of towels ostensibly to \"save the environment.\" Westervelt noted that, in most cases, little or no effort toward reducing energy waste was being made by these institutions—as evidenced by the lack of cost reduction this practice effected. Westervelt opined that the actual objective of this \"green campaign\" on the part of many hoteliers was, in fact, increased profit. Westervelt thus labeled this and other outwardly environmentally conscientious acts with a greater, underlying purpose of profit increase as \"greenwashing\".\n\nIn addition, the political term \"linguistic detoxification\" describes when, through legislation or other government action, the definitions of toxicity for certain substances are changed, or the name of the substance is changed, so that fewer things fall under a particular classification as toxic. The origin of this phrase has been attributed to environmental activist and author Barry Commoner.\n\nSimilarly, introduction of a Carbon Emission Trading Scheme may feel good, but may be counterproductive if the cost of carbon is priced too low, or if large emitters are given \"free credits.\" For example, Bank of America subsidiary MBNA offers an Eco-Logique MasterCard for Canadian consumers that rewards customers with carbon offsets as they continue using the card. Customers may feel that they are nullifying their carbon footprint by purchasing polluting goods with the card. However, only 0.5 percent of purchase price goes into purchasing carbon offsets, while the rest of the interchange fee still goes to the bank.\n\nSuch campaigns and marketing communications, designed to publicize and highlight organizational CSR policies to various stakeholders, affect corporate reputation and brand image, but the proliferation of unsubstantiated ethical claims and greenwashing by some companies has resulted in increasing consumer cynicism and mistrust.\n\nIn the mid 1960s, the environmental movement gained momentum. This popularity prompted many companies to create a new green image through advertising. Jerry Mander, a former Madison Avenue advertising executive, called this new form of advertising \"ecopornography.\"\n\nThe first Earth Day was held on April 22, 1970. This encouraged many industries to advertise themselves as being friendly to the environment. Public utilities spent 300 million dollars advertising themselves as clean green companies. This was eight times more than the money they spent on pollution reduction research.\n\nIn 1985, the Chevron Corporation launched one of the most famous greenwashing ad campaigns in history. Chevron's \"People Do\" advertisements were aimed at a \"hostile audience\" of \"societally conscious\" people. Two years after the launch of the campaign, surveys found people in California trusted Chevron more than other oil companies to protect the environment. In the late 1980s The American Chemistry Council started a program called Responsible Care, which shone light on the environmental performances and precautions of the group's members. The loose guidelines of responsible care caused industries to adopt self-regulation over government regulation.\n\nIn 1991, a study published in the Journal of Public Policy and Marketing (American Marketing Association) found that 58% of environmental ads had at least one deceptive claim. Another study found that 77% of people said the environmental reputation of company affected whether they would buy their products. One fourth of all household products marketed around Earth Day advertised themselves as being green and environmentally friendly. In 1998 the Federal Trade Commission created the \"Green Guidelines,\" which defined terms used in environmental marketing. The following year the FTC found that the Nuclear Energy Institute claims of being environmentally clean were not true. The FTC did nothing about the ads because they were out of their jurisdiction. This caused the FTC to realize they needed new clear enforceable standards. In 1999, according to environmental activist organizations, the word \"greenwashing\" was added to the \"Oxford English Dictionary\".\n\nIn 2002, during the World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg, the Greenwashing Academy hosted the Greenwash Academy Awards. The ceremony awarded companies like BP, ExxonMobil, and even the US Government for their elaborate greenwashing ads and support for greenwashing.\n\nMore recently, social scientists have been investigating claims of and the impact of greenwashing. In 2005, Ramus and Monteil conducted secondary data analysis of two databases to uncover corporate commitment to implementation of environmental policies as opposed to greenwashing. They found while companies in the oil and gas are more likely to implement environmental policies than service industry companies, they are less likely to commit to fossil fuel reduction.\n\nIn 2010 a study was done showing that 4.5% of products tested were found to be truly green as opposed to 2% in 2009. In 2009 2,739 products claimed to be green while in 2010 the number rose to 4,744. The same study in 2010 found that 95% percent of the consumer products claiming to be green were not green at all.\n\nThe Australian Trade Practices Act has been modified to include punishment of companies that provide misleading environmental claims. Any organization found guilty of such could face up $6 million in fines. In addition, the guilty party must pay for all expenses incurred while setting the record straight about their product or company's actual environmental impact.\n\nCanada's Competition Bureau along with the Canadian Standards Association are discouraging companies from making \"vague claims\" towards their products' environmental impact. Any claims must be backed up by \"readily available data.\"\n\nNorway's consumer ombudsman has targeted automakers who claim that their cars are \"green,\" \"clean\" or \"environmentally friendly\" with some of the world's strictest advertising guidelines. Consumer Ombudsman official Bente Øverli said: \"Cars cannot do anything good for the environment except less damage than others.\" Manufacturers risk fines if they fail to drop the words. Øverli said she did not know of other countries going so far in cracking down on cars and the environment.\n\nThe Federal Trade Commission (FTC) provides voluntary guidelines for environmental marketing claims. These guidelines give the FTC the right to prosecute false and misleading advertisement claims. The green guidelines were not created to be used as an enforceable guideline but instead were intended to be followed voluntarily. Listed below are the green guidelines set by the FTC.\n\nThe FTC has said in 2010 that it will update its guidelines for environmental marketing claims in an attempt to reduce greenwashing. The revision to the FTC's Green Guides covers a wide range of public input, including hundreds of consumer and industry comments on previously proposed revisions. The updates and revision to the existing Guides include a new section of carbon offsets, \"green\" certifications and seals renewable energy and renewable materials claims. According to FTC Chairman Jon Leibowitz, \"The introduction of environmentally friendly products into the marketplace is a win for consumers who want to purchase greener products and producers who wants to sell them.\" Leibowitz also says the win-win can only claim if marketers' claims are straightforward and proven.\n\nIn 2013, the FTC began enforcing the revisions put forth in the Green Guides. The FTC cracked down on six different companies, in which five of the cases were concerned with the false or misleading advertising surrounding the biodegradability of plastics. The FTC charged ECM Biofilms, American Plastic Manufacturing, CHAMP, Clear Choice Housewares, and Carnie Cap, for misrepresenting the biodegradability of their plastics treated with additives.\n\nThe FTC charged a sixth company, AJM Packaging Corporation, for violating a commission consent order put in place that prohibits companies from using advertising claims based on the product or packaging being \"degradable, biodegradable, or photodegradable\" without reliable scientific information. The FTC now requires companies to disclose and provide the information that qualifies their environmental claims to ensure transparency.\n\n\nOrganizations and individuals are making attempts to reduce the impact of greenwashing by exposing it to the public. The Greenwashing Index, created by the University of Oregon in partnership with EnviroMedia Social Marketing, allows examples of greenwashing to be uploaded and rated by the public. The British Code of Advertising, Sales Promotion and Direct Marketing has a specific section (section 49) targeting environmental claims.\n\nAccording to some organizations opposing greenwashing, there has been a significant increase in its use by companies over the last decade. TerraChoice Environmental Marketing, an advertising consultancy company, issued a report denoting a 79% increase in the usage of corporate greenwashing between 2007 and 2009. Additionally, it has begun to manifest itself in new varied ways. Within the non-residential building products market in the United States, some companies are beginning to claim that their environmentally minded policy changes will allow them to earn points through the U.S. Green Building Council's Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design rating program. This point system has been held up as an example of the \"gateway effect\" that the drive to market products as environmentally friendly is having on company policies. Some have claimed that the greenwashing trend may be enough to eventually effect a genuine reduction in environmentally damaging practices. \n\nAccording to the Home and Family Edition, 95% consumer products claiming to be green were discovered to commit at least one of the \"Sins of Greenwashing\". The Seven Sins of Greenwashing are as follows:\n\nIn 2008, Ed Gillespie identified \"ten signs of greenwashing\", which are similar to the \"Seven Sins\" listed above, but with three additional indicators.\n\nCompanies may pursue environmental certification to avoid greenwashing through independent verification of their green claims. For example, the Carbon Trust Standard launched in 2007 with the stated aim \"to end 'greenwash' and highlight firms that are genuine about their commitment to the environment\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13849", "title": "House of Hohenzollern", "text": "House of Hohenzollern\n\nThe House of Hohenzollern is a dynasty of former princes, electors, kings and emperors of Hohenzollern, Brandenburg, Prussia, the German Empire, and Romania. The family arose in the area around the town of Hechingen in Swabia during the 11th century and took their name from Hohenzollern Castle. The first ancestors of the Hohenzollerns were mentioned in 1061. \n\nThe Hohenzollern family split into two branches, the Catholic Swabian branch and the Protestant Franconian branch, which later became the Brandenburg-Prussian branch. The Swabian branch ruled the principalities of Hohenzollern-Hechingen and Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen until 1849, and also ruled Romania from 1866 to 1947. Members of the Franconian branch became Margrave of Brandenburg in 1415 and Duke of Prussia in 1525.\n\nThe Margraviate of Brandenburg and the Duchy of Prussia were ruled in personal union after 1618 and were called Brandenburg-Prussia. The Kingdom of Prussia was created in 1701, eventually leading to the unification of Germany and the creation of the German Empire in 1871, with the Hohenzollerns as hereditary German Emperors and Kings of Prussia.\n\nGermany's defeat in World War I in 1918 led to the German Revolution. The Hohenzollerns were overthrown and the Weimar Republic was established, thus bringing an end to the German monarchy. Georg Friedrich, Prince of Prussia is the current head of the royal Prussian line, while Karl Friedrich, Prince of Hohenzollern is the head of the princely Swabian line.\n\nZollern, from 1218 Hohenzollern, was a county of the Holy Roman Empire. Later its capital was Hechingen. \n\nThe Hohenzollerns named their estates after Hohenzollern Castle in the Swabian Alps. The Hohenzollern Castle lies on a 855 meters high mountain called Hohenzollern. It still belongs to the family today.\n\nThe dynasty was first mentioned in 1061. According to the medieval chronicler Berthold of Reichenau, Burkhard I, Count of Zollern (\"de Zolorin\") was born before 1025 and died in 1061. \n\nIn 1095 Count Adalbert of Zollern founded the Benedictine monastery of Alpirsbach, situated in the Black Forest.\n\nThe Zollerns received the comital title from Emperor Henry V in 1111. \n\nAs loyal vassals of the Swabian Hohenstaufen dynasty, they were able to significantly enlarge their territory. Count Frederick III (c. 1139 – c. 1200) accompanied Emperor Frederick Barbarossa against Henry the Lion in 1180, and through his marriage was granted the Burgraviate of Nuremberg by Emperor Henry VI in 1192. In about 1185 he married Sophia of Raabs, the daughter of Conrad II, Burgrave of Nuremberg. After the death of Conrad II who left no male heirs, Frederick III was granted Nuremberg as Burgrave Frederick I.\n\nIn 1218 the burgraviate passed to Frederick's elder son Conrad I, he thereby became the ancestor of the Franconian Hohenzollern branch, which acquired the Electorate of Brandenburg in 1415.\n\n\nAfter Frederick's death, his sons partitioned the family lands between themselves:\n\nThe senior Franconian branch of the House of Hohenzollern was founded by Conrad I, Burgrave of Nuremberg (1186–1261).\n\nThe family supported the Hohenstaufen and Habsburg rulers of the Holy Roman Empire during the 12th to 15th centuries, being rewarded with several territorial grants. Beginning in the 16th century, this branch of the family became Protestant and decided on expansion through marriage and the purchase of surrounding lands. \n\nIn the first phase, the family gradually added to their lands, at first with many small acquisitions in the Franconian region of Germany:\n\nIn the second phase, the family expanded their lands further with large acquisitions in the Brandenburg and Prussian regions of Germany and current Poland:\n\nThese acquisitions eventually transformed the Hohenzollerns from a minor German princely family into one of the most important dynasties in Europe.\n\n\nAt Frederick V's death on 21 January 1398, his lands were partitioned between his two sons:\n\n\nAfter John III/I's death on 11 June 1420, the margraviates of Brandenburg-Ansbach and Brandenburg-Kulmbach were briefly reunited under Frederick VI/I/I. He ruled the Margraviate of Brandenburg-Ansbach after 1398. From 1420, he became Margrave of Brandenburg-Kulmbach. From 1411 Frederick VI became governor of Brandenburg and later Elector and Margrave of Brandenburg as Frederick I. Upon his death on 21 September 1440, his territories were divided among his sons:\n\n\nIn 1427 Frederick, Elector of Brandenburg sold Nuremberg Castle and his rights as burgrave to the Imperial City of Nuremberg. The territories of Brandenburg-Ansbach and Brandenburg-Kulmbach remained possessions of the family, once parts of the Burgraviate of Nuremberg. \n\n\nOn 2 December 1791, Christian II Frederick sold the sovereignty of his principalities to King Frederick William II of Prussia.\n\n\nOn 2 December 1791, Charles Alexander sold the sovereignty of his principalities to King Frederick William II of Prussia.\n\nFrom 8 January 1701 the title of Elector of Brandenburg was attached to the title of King \"in\" Prussia and, from 13 September 1772, to that of King \"of\" Prussia.\n\nThe Duchy of Jägerndorf (Krnov) was purchased in 1523.\n\nThe duchy of Jägerndorf was confiscated by Emperor Ferdinand III in 1622.\n\nIn 1411 Frederick VI, Burgrave of Nuremberg was appointed governor of Brandenburg in order to restore order and stability. At the Council of Constance in 1415, King Sigismund elevated Frederick to the rank of Elector and Margrave of Brandenburg as Frederick I.\n\nThe short-lived Margraviate of Brandenburg-Küstrin was set up as a secundogeniture of the House of Hohenzollern.\n\n\nAlthough recognised as a branch of the dynasty since 1688, the Margraviate of Brandenburg-Schwedt remained subordinate to the electors, and was never an independent principality.\n\nIn 1525 the Duchy of Prussia was established as a fief of the King of Poland. Albert of Prussia was the last Grand Master of the Teutonic Knights and the first Duke of Prussia. He belonged to the Ansbach branch of the dynasty. The Duchy of Prussia adopted Protestantism as the official state religion. \n\nFrom 1701 the title of Duke of Prussia was attached to the title of King in and of Prussia.\n\nIn 1701 the title of King in Prussia was granted, without the Duchy of Prussia being elevated to a Kingdom within the Holy Roman Empire. From 1701 onwards the titles of Duke of Prussia and Elector of Brandenburg were always attached to the title of King in Prussia. The Duke of Prussia adopted the title of king as Frederick I, establishing his status as a monarch whose royal territory lay outside the boundaries of the Holy Roman Empire, with the assent of Emperor Leopold I: Frederick could not be \"King of Prussia\" because part of Prussia's lands were under the suzerainty of the Crown of the Kingdom of Poland. In the age of absolutism, most monarchs were obsessed with the desire to emulate Louis XIV of France with his luxurious palace at Versailles.\n\nIn 1772 the Duchy of Prussia was elevated to a kingdom.\n\nFrederick William's successor, Frederick the Great gained Silesia in the Silesian Wars so that Prussia emerged as a great power. The king was strongly influenced by French culture and civilization and preferred the French language.\n\nIn 1772 the title \"King of Prussia\" was assumed. From 1772 onwards the titles of Duke of Prussia and Elector of Brandenburg were always attached to the title King of Prussia.\n\nIn 1871 the Kingdom of Prussia became a constituent member of the German Empire.\n\nIn 1871 the German Empire was proclaimed. With the accession of William I to the newly established imperial German throne, the titles of King of Prussia, Duke of Prussia and Elector of Brandenburg were always attached to the title of German Emperor.\n\nPrussia's Minister President Otto von Bismarck convinced William that German Emperor instead of Emperor of Germany would be appropriate. He became \"primus inter pares\" among other German sovereigns.\n\nWilliam II intended to develop a German navy capable of challenging Britain's Royal Navy. The assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria on 28 June 1914 set off the chain of events that led to World War I. As a result of the war, the German, Russian, Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires ceased to exist.\n\nIn 1918 the German empire was abolished and replaced by the Weimar Republic. After the outbreak of the German revolution in 1918, both Emperor Wilhelm II and Crown Prince Wilhelm signed the document of abdication.\n\nIn June 1926, a referendum on expropriating the formerly ruling princes of Germany without compensation failed and as a consequence, the financial situation of the Hohenzollern family improved considerably. A settlement between the state and the family made Cecilienhof property of the state but granted a right of residence to Crown Prince Wilhelm and his wife Cecilie. The family also kept the ownership of Monbijou Palace in Berlin, Oleśnica Castle in Silesia, Rheinsberg Palace, Schwedt Palace and other property until 1945. \n\nSince the abolition of the German monarchy, no Hohenzollern claims to imperial or royal prerogatives are recognised by Germany's Basic Law for the Federal Republic of Germany of 1949, which guarantees a republic.\n\nThe communist government of the Soviet occupation zone depropriated all landowners and industrialists; the House of Hohenzollern lost almost all of its fortune, retaining a few company shares and Hohenzollern Castle in West Germany. The Polish government appropriated the Silesian property and the Dutch government seized Huis Doorn, the Emperor's seat in exile. \n\nAfter German reunification however, the family was legally able to re-claim their portable property, namely art collections and parts of the interior of their former palaces. Negotiations on the return of or compensation for these assets are not yet completed. \n\nBerlin's old City Palace is being rebuilt and is scheduled to open in 2019. The Berlin Palace and the Humboldt Forum are located in the middle of Berlin. \n\nThe head of the house is the titular King of Prussia and German Emperor. He also bears a historical claim to the title of Prince of Orange. Members of this line style themselves princes of Prussia. \n\nGeorg Friedrich, Prince of Prussia, the current head of the royal Prussian House of Hohenzollern, was married to Princess Sophie of Isenburg on 27 August 2011. On 20 January 2013, she gave birth to twin sons, Carl Friedrich Franz Alexander and Louis Ferdinand Christian Albrecht, in Bremen. Carl Friedrich, the elder of the two, is the heir apparent.\n\nThe cadet Swabian branch of the House of Hohenzollern was founded by Frederick IV, Count of Zollern. The family ruled three territories with seats at, respectively, Hechingen, Sigmaringen and Haigerloch. The counts were elevated to princes in 1623. The Swabian branch of the Hohenzollerns is Roman Catholic.\n\nAffected by economic problems and internal feuds, the Hohenzollern counts from the 14th century onwards came under pressure by their neighbors, the Counts of Württemberg and the cities of the Swabian League, whose troops besieged and finally destroyed Hohenzollern Castle in 1423. Nevertheless, the Hohenzollerns retained their estates, backed by their Brandenburg cousins and the Imperial House of Habsburg. In 1535, Count Charles I of Hohenzollern (1512–1576) received the counties of Sigmaringen and Veringen as Imperial fiefs.\n\nIn 1576, when Charles I, Count of Hohenzollern died, his county was divided to form the three Swabian branches. Eitel Frederick IV took Hohenzollern with the title of Hohenzollern-Hechingen, Karl II took Sigmaringen and Veringen, and Christopher got Haigerloch. Christopher's family died out in 1634.\n\n\nIn 1695, the remaining two Swabian branches entered into an agreement with the Margrave of Brandenburg which provided that if both branches became extinct, the principalities should fall to Brandenburg. Because of the Revolutions of 1848, Constantine, Prince of Hohenzollern-Hechingen and Karl Anton, Prince of Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen abdicated their thrones in December 1849. The principalities were ruled by the Kings of Prussia from December 1849 onward, with the Hechingen and Sigmaringen branches obtaining official treatment as cadets of the Prussian royal family.\n\nThe Hohenzollern-Hechingen branch became extinct in 1869. A descendent of this branch was Countess Sophie Chotek, morganatic wife of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria-Este.\n\nIn 1204, the County of Hohenzollern was established out of the fusion of the County of Zollern and the Burgraviate of Nuremberg. The Swabian branch inherited the county of Zollern and, being descended from Frederick I of Nuremberg, were all named \"Friedrich\" down through the 11th generation. Each one's numeral is counted from the first Friedrich to rule his branch's appanage. \n\nThe most senior of these in the 12th century, Count Frederick VIII (d. 1333), had two sons, the elder of whom became Frederick IX (d. 1379), first Count of Hohenzollern, and fathered Friedrich X who left no sons when he died in 1412. \n\nBut the younger son of Friedrich VIII, called \"Friedrich of Strassburg\", uniquely, took no numeral of his own, retaining the old title \"Count of Zollern\" and pre-deceased his brother in 1364/65. Prince Wilhelm Karl zu Isenburg's 1957 genealogical series, \"Europäische Stammtafeln\", says Friedrich of Strassburg shared, rather, in the rule of Zollern with his elder brother until his premature death. \n\nIt appears, but is not stated, that Strassburg's son became the recognized co-ruler of his cousin Friedrich X (as compensation for having received no appanage and/or because of incapacity on the part of Friedrich X) and, as such, assumed (or is, historically, attributed) the designation Frederick XI although he actually pre-deceased Friedrich X, dying in 1401. \n\nFriedrich XI, however, left two sons who jointly succeeded their cousin-once-removed, being Count Frederick XII (d. childless 1443) and Count Eitel Friedrich I (d. 1439), the latter becoming the ancestor of all subsequent branches of the Princes of Hohenzollern.\n\n\nIn the 12th century, a son of Frederick I secured the county of Hohenberg. The county remained in the possession of the family until 1486. \n\nThe influence of the Swabian line was weakened by several partitions of its lands. In the 16th century, the situation changed completely when Eitel Frederick II, a friend and adviser of the emperor Maximilian I, received the district of Haigerloch. His grandson Charles I was granted the counties of Sigmaringen and Vehringen by Charles V.\n\nThe County of Hohenzollern-Hechingen was established in 1576 with allodial rights. It included the original County of Zollern, with the Hohenzollern Castle and the monastery at Stetten.\n\nIn December 1849, the ruling princes of both Hohenzollern-Hechingen and Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen abdicated their thrones, and their principalities were incorporated as the Prussian province of Hohenzollern. The Hechingen branch became extinct in dynastic line with Konstantin's death in 1869.\n\nThe County of Hohenzollern-Haigerloch was established in 1576 without allodial rights.\n\n\nBetween 1634 and 1681, the county was temporarily integrated into the principality of Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen.\n\n\nUpon the death of Francis Christopher Anton in 1767, the Haigerloch territory was incorporated into the principality of Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen.\n\nThe County of Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen was established in 1576 with allodial rights and a seat at Sigmaringen Castle.\n\nIn December 1849, sovereignty over the principality was yielded to the Franconian branch of the family and incorporated into the Kingdom of Prussia, which accorded status as cadets of the Prussian Royal Family to the Swabian Hohenzollerns. The last ruling Prince of Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen, Karl Anton, would later serve as Minister President of Prussia between 1858 and 1862.\n\nThe family continued to use the title of Prince of Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen. After the Hechingen branch became extinct in 1869, the Sigmaringen branch adopted title of \"Prince of Hohenzollern\".\n\nIn 1866, Prince Charles of Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen was chosen prince of Romania, becoming King Carol I of Romania in 1881.\n\nCharles's elder brother, Leopold, Prince of Hohenzollern, was offered the Spanish throne after a revolt exiled Isabella II in 1870. Although encouraged by Bismarck to accept, Leopold declined in the face of French opposition. Nonetheless, Bismarck altered and then published the Ems telegram to create a \"casus belli\": France declared war, but Bismarck's Germany won the Franco-Prussian War.\n\nThe head of the Sigmaringen branch (the only extant line of the Swabian branch of the dynasty) is Karl Friedrich, styled \"His Serene Highness\" The Prince of Hohenzollern. His official seat is Sigmaringen Castle.\n\nThe Principality of Romania was established in 1862, after the Ottoman vassal states of Wallachia and Moldavia had been united in 1859 under Alexandru Ioan Cuza as Prince of Romania in a personal union. He was deposed in 1866 by the Romanian parliament.\n\nPrince Charles of Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen was invited to become reigning Prince of Romania in 1866. In 1881 he became Carol I, King of the Romanians. Carol I had an only daughter who died young, so the younger son of his brother Leopold, Prince Ferdinand of Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen, would succeed his uncle as King of the Romanians in 1914, and his descendants, having converted to the Orthodox Church, continued to reign there until the end of the monarchy in 1947.\n\nIn 1947 the Kingdom of Romania was abolished and replaced with the People's Republic of Romania. Michael did not press his claim to the defunct Romanian throne and although he was welcomed back to the country after half a century in exile as a private citizen, with substantial former royal properties being placed at his disposal. However, his dynastic claim was not recognised by post-Communist Romanians. \n\nOn 10 May 2011, Michael severed the dynastic ties between the House of Romania and the House of Hohenzollern.\nAfter that the branch of the Hohenzollerns was dynastically represented only by the last king Michael, and his daughters. Having no sons, he declared that his dynastic heir, instead of being a male member of the Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen princely family to which he belongs patrilineally and in accordance with the last Romanian monarchical constitution, should be his eldest daughter Margareta.\n\nThe royal house is still very popular and in 2014 Prime Minister Victor Ponta promised a referendum on whether or not to reinstate the monarchy if he were re-elected.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12467293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12467293", "title": "Italian language in Slovenia", "text": "Italian language in Slovenia\n\nThe Italian language is an officially recognized minority language in Slovenia, along with Hungarian. Around 3,700 Slovenian citizens speak Italian as their mother tongue. Italian has a strong presence in Slovenia, both historical and current. An estimated 15% of Slovenians speak Italian as a second language, which is one of the highest percentages in the European Union.\n\nBetween the Late Middle Ages and 1797, part of the territory of the Slovenian Istria (almost entirely corresponding to the current municipalities of Koper, Izola and Piran) was under Venetian rule. During that period, the population of the coastal area, which had spoken various Romance dialects (either of Rhaeto-Romance or Istriot origin) adopted the Venetian dialect of Italian. During Austrian rule, which lasted until 1918, Italian was the official language of these areas, along with German. Only in the late 19th century, Slovene became co-official, but only in those rural areas where there was a Slovene ethnic majority.\n\nAccording to the last Austrian census of 1910, of the around 75,000 inhabitants of Slovenian Istria, around 30,000 or 40% spoke Italian as their native language, while 60% spoke Slovene. Taken only the three municipalities of Koper, Izola in Piran (in their current border), the figures are 52% Italian speakers vs. 47% Slovene speakers. There was a big linguistic divide among the urban population and the rural areas: the towns were almost exclusively Italian speaking, while the rural areas had a large Slovene majority. Within the current borders of the municipality of Koper, 87% of the urban population was Italian speaking, while in its predominantly rural surroundings, they represented the 22,3% of the population. In Izola, Italian speakers amounted to 97% in the town, but only 12,8% in the surroundings. Only in the Piran municipality, they had a majority both in the urban and rural areas, with 95,9% and 64%, respectively.\n\nAfter World War One, the entire Slovenian Littoral was annexed to Italy. During Fascism, a policy of Italianization was pursued, and all public use of Slovene was banished throughout the region. After World War Two, these areas were annexed to Socialist Yugoslavia, and the vast majority of the Italian-speaking population of the coastal town was either expelled by the Communist regime or decided to flee to Italy, in what became known as the Istrian Exodus. Only about a tenth of the Italian-speaking population remained. However, due to international and bilateral agreements that followed the dissolution of the Free Territory of Trieste, they were granted linguistic rights, and the entire territory of their traditional settlement became bilingual.\n\nItalian is co-official with Slovene in three municipalities in the Slovenian portion of Istria: Piran (), Koper () and Izola (). The official census, carried out in 2002, reported 2,258 ethnic Italians in the country (0.11% of the total population). However, 3,762 people (0.2% of the total population and a slight dip from the number in the 1991 census) reported themselves to be mother tongue speakers of the language, of whom 1,832 declared themselves as being ethnic Italian, 1,195 as ethnic Slovenes, 34 as Croats, and 37 belonged to an ethnicity that was not listed.\n\nOf the total 3,762 Italian native speakers in Slovenia, 2,853 live in one of the three municipalities where it is co-official: 1,174 in Piran, 1,059 in Koper, and 620 in Izola. Around 15% of all Slovenians speak Italian as a second language, which is the highest percentage in the European Union after Malta. An estimated 5% of Slovenians use Italian in their daily life, which is the highest percentage in the European Union outside Italy. The vast majority of those live in the Slovenian Littoral, where daily economic and personal contacts with neighboring Italy are common.\n\nAccording to the Slovenian constitution, the Italian language is co-official in the areas of Slovenian Istria where the Italian people have been traditionally present as an autochthonous population. According to law, all official signs are to be written in both languages, as should all public notifications. Italian is to be used in all public offices in the bilingual area. Beside Slovene language schools, there are also elementary, high and grammar schools with Italian as the language of instruction. At the state-owned University of Primorska, however, which is also established in the bilingual area, Slovene is the only language of instruction (although the official name of the university includes the Italian version, too).\n\nItalian can be used in the municipal assemblies of Koper, Izola and Piran, although in practice almost all discussions are carried out in Slovene.\n\n"}
{"id": "40320453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40320453", "title": "Kaiserlich", "text": "Kaiserlich\n\nThe adjective kaiserlich means \"imperial\" and was used in the German-speaking countries to refer to those institutions and establishments over which the \"Kaiser\" (\"emperor\") had immediate personal power of control.\n\nThe term was used particularly in connexion with the Roman-German Emperor as sovereign of the Holy Roman Empire and with the subsequent Empire of Austria. In the Early Modern Period the term is linked with the universal precedence of the \"Kaiser\" over the other princes of the realm. Holders of an imperial or \"kaiserliche\" office were recruited from the whole empire, and had wide-ranging privileges in the territories.\n\nExamples of military, political and cultural institutions with \"kaiserliche\" players in the Holy Roman Empire are the:\n\nof the Roman-German Emperor (to 1806) (Habsburg, only 1742–1745 Wittelsbach)\n\nThe traditions continued in the Holy Roman Empire's successors, the Empire of Austria and in Austria-Hungary (with the suffix \"königlich\" or \"royal\"). The \"kaiserliche\" soldiers had an especially romanticised calling and loyalty, and occasionally similar names continue to the present day e. g. in several musical pieces and the \"Kaiserjäger\" band. \n\nIn Switzerland the term has negative connotations that go back to the protracted struggle for independence of the Swiss Confederation.\n\nThe term was not used in the German Empire of the 19th century.\n\nIts use in the Napoleonic Wars and in connexion with the Battle of the Three Emperors is problematic.\n\n"}
{"id": "22985773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22985773", "title": "Khan Bahadur Ahsanullah", "text": "Khan Bahadur Ahsanullah\n\nKhan Bahadur Ahsanullah (27 December 1873 – 9 February 1965) was an educator, litterateur, Islamic theologist and social reformer of Pre-partition India. He was instrumental in the formation of the University of Dhaka and is the namesake of Ahsanullah University of Science and Technology.\n\nAhsanullah completed his MA in Philosophy from Presidency College, Kolkata in 1895, and went on to serve as first Muslim Headmaster of Rajshahi Collegiate School. In 1911, he was elected a member of the Royal Society (MRSA) of London. He became the first person amongst the Hindus and Muslims of Undivided Bengal to join the Indian Education Service. He served as a Senator of the University of Calcutta, and was especially active in the movement to establish the University of Dhaka.\n\nAhsanullah founded \"Nalta Central Ahsania Mission (NCAM)\" on 15 March 1935 at Nalta Sharif. NCAM is the \"Central Ahsania Mission\" in the world. \"Divine & Humanitarian Service\" is the motto of Dhaka Ahsania Mission.\n\nThen, in 1958, Ahsanullah founded the Dhaka Ahsania Mission (DAM), a non-profitable organization with broad social goals. DAM founded the Ahsanullah University of Science and Technology (AUST), Khan Bahadur Ahsanullah Teachers Training College (KATTC), Ahsania Mission College (AMC), Ahsanullah Institute of Information & Communication Technology (AIICT)], Ahsania Mission Institute of Medical Technology (AMIMT), Ahsania Institute of Technology and Business (AITB), Ahsania e- Solutions ( AeS ), Ahsania Mission Book Distribution House ( AMBDH), Ahsania Mission Cancer & General Hospital (AMCGH), and NCAM also founded Nalta Sharif Ahsania Mission Orphanage (NSAMO) at Dhaka, naming it in honor of their founder.\n\nHe wrote around 100 books on different contents. Among his notable books are:\n\n"}
{"id": "55023764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55023764", "title": "Lembus people", "text": "Lembus people\n\nLembus People/Tribe is one of the sub tribe of Kalenjin People of Kenya. Lembus is a small community predominantly living in Eldama Ravine, Mogotio and Nakuru Districts. Lembus comprises Lembus Kamaruso, Lembus Murkaptuk, Lembus Somek and Ogiekab Lembus. The community also comprises other smaller groups of assimilated communities.\n\nThe Lembus People have for many years been considered to be Tugen, but this assertion has been resisted by the Lembus People themselves, and their Lembus Council of Elders. Members of the Lembus community insist that Tugen is just a name coined in the 1960s to unite the small communities living in Baringo. Lembus existed many years even before the Europeans arrived in Kenya.\nLembus People have had close relationship with the Nandi dating back to precolonial period. It is also notable that Lembus People and the Nandi share a lot of cultural, language and religious similarities. In the 1890s, the Lembus People resisted the British entry into Lembus territories and especially the Lembus Forest. The resistance by the Lembus also coincided with the Nandi Resistance to the British in the late 1890s to 1906. The British administrators in Eldama Ravine also accused the Lembus People of collusion with their Nandi brothers and cousins to fight the British.\n\n"}
{"id": "40968522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40968522", "title": "List of LGBT members of the United States Congress", "text": "List of LGBT members of the United States Congress\n\nThis is a list of gay, lesbian, and bisexual Americans in the U.S. Congress. , there were seven openly LGBTQ members of the 115th Congress—all Democrats. This list only includes people who are openly LGBTQ or were outed in obituaries. Current members of Congress are shaded in gray. There has never been an openly transgender member of Congress.\n\n"}
{"id": "5829354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5829354", "title": "Léopold Szondi", "text": "Léopold Szondi\n\nLéopold Szondi ( ; March 11, 1893 – January 24, 1986) was a Hungarian psychiatrist and psychoanalyst, psychopathologist and Professor of psychology. Founder of the concept of fate analysis. He is known for the psychological tool that bears his name, the Szondi test. The achievements of the scientist are: The Szondi test, Fate analysis and Fate psychology.\n\nSzondi was born in city of Nyitra (in present-day Slovakia) and raised in a German and Slovak-speaking Jewish family. The original name of the family was Sonnenschein. He was born as the twelfth child in his father's second marriage. The family moved to Budapest in 1898. His mother, who died very soon, was remembered by the family as an illiterate, unwholesome woman who had to be supervised by the elder siblings during her depressive periods. The father himself had a huge impact on Szondi, influencing his fate-analytical works to a great extent.\nThese are his own words about his father: „ My father was a Jewish shoemaker, who spent most of his time studying the Jewish Holy Scriptures, supposedly Talmudic and Hasidic ones. I was five when the family moved to Budapest, and my elder brothers and sisters had to provide for the family, while my father contributed as an assistant rabbi during the service on big Jewish feasts. In such an environment I was raised to be religious. I was eighteen when he died, right before graduation. I used to say the prayer called Kaddis every morning and evening due to Jewish customs in front of the communion for a whole year. This was the time when my ego had internalized my father. These deep patterns were the ones leading me in my academic works later on, even when I had already given up the dogmatic customs of the Jewish religion. I still remained a Jew, a devoted one. Hence the role of belief function supposedly has a strong connection with me being brought up in a religious manner.\"\n\nIn June 1944, he was deported with his family to Bergen-Belsen concentration camp on the Kastner train. After 1700 American intellectuals paid a large ransom to Adolf Eichmann, Szondi, his family, and other prominent intellectuals were released to Switzerland in December 1944, where Szondi continued to live after the war. In 1961, the test developed by Szondi was used by Israeli judges to test the same Adolf Eichmann during his 1961 trial..\n\nBy then, Szondi was widely acknowledged as an internationally renowned psychoanalyst, who had sought a third way between Sigmund Freud and Carl Gustav Jung. While Freud has focused on the individual unconscious, and Jung on the collective unconscious, Szondi privileged what he called \"the family unconscious.\" The heart of his theory was the claim that the genes of our ancestors are present in our unconscious and influence our choices. Connecting with our collective unconscious through his method called \"Fate Analysis,\" Szondi claimed, would allow us to achieve a higher degree of liberty, as we become free to follow or reject the \"fatal\" impulses coming from the presence of the ancestors in our psychic field.\n\nSzondi never achieved the fame of Freud and Jung, but by the time of his death in 1986 he had gathered a loyal following. In 1969, the Szondi Institute had been established in Zurich to preserve his writings, papers, and legacy. A number of his followers are members of the International Szondi Society. A version of Szondi's Fate Analysis is taught independently by the Applied Sciences Association, founded in Odessa by Ukrainian psychologist Oleg Viktorovich Maltsev.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39271873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39271873", "title": "Michael Lee Lockhart", "text": "Michael Lee Lockhart\n\nMichael Lee Lockhart was a multi-state serial killer who received death sentences in three states (Florida, Indiana, and Texas). He was executed on December 9, 1997, by the state of Texas.\n\nLockhart was captured when officer Paul Hulsey Jr. tried to arrest him for driving a stolen Chevrolet Corvette. Officers responding to the motel room where he was reported found Hulsey dead in the room. They put out an all points bulletin for the vehicle, which was spotted. A high speed chase ensued before Lockhart crashed and was soon apprehended. Evidence of his other crimes was found in the vehicle. Lockhart was a suspect in the murder of Kathy Hobbs, a 16-year-old girl abducted from Las Vegas, Nevada in 1987.\n\nLockhart was executed on December 9, 1997 in Texas. Lockhart's last words were; \"a lot of people view what is happening here as evil, but I want you to know that I found love and compassion here. The people who work here, I thank them for the kindness they have shown me and I deeply appreciate all that has been done for me by the people who work here. That’s all, Warden, I’m ready.\"\n"}
{"id": "57458574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57458574", "title": "Mixed-sex sports", "text": "Mixed-sex sports\n\nMixed-sex sports, also known as mixed-gender or coed sports, are sports where the participants are not of a single sex. This can take the form of individual or team sports involving people of different sexes. In organised sports settings, rules usually dictate the number of people required of each sex in a team (for example teams of one man and one woman). Such rules account for the sex differences in human physiology, with males being larger and stronger than females on average. In informal settings, mixed-sex sports typically involves groups of friends and/or family engaging in sport without regard to the sex of the participants.\n\nSports which are mixed-sex as standard are typically ones where the differences between the sexes do not greatly affect the ability of the competitor, for example equestrian sports. There are also disciplines where there has always been a tradition of multi sex participation like pairs in dancesport. There are also mainly single-sex sports with a variant sub-competition between mixed-sex teams, for example mixed doubles tennis.\n\nMixed-sex sports have been encouraged as a way of boosting female sports participation and improving social harmony between the sexes. Mixed-sex play and sports is common among young children, among whom differences are less pronounced.\n\nIt is uncommon in most organised sports to find individuals of different genders competing head-to-head at elite level, principally due to the differences between the sexes. In sports where these differences are less linked to performance, it is standard practice for men and women to compete in mixed-sex fields. These open-class sports prove accommodating to intersex athletes, who challenge the sex-defined rules of both single-sex sport and mixed-sex sports with defined male and female roles.\n\nIn equestrian sports, male and female riders compete against each other in eventing, dressage and show jumping disciplines. Female jockeys compete alongside male ones in horse racing, though the former constitute a minority of jockeys overall. Beyond the athletes, the horses used for racing are a mixed of male and female, with a roughly 60/40 split at the top level between colts and fillies.\n\nDuring an Ultimate game, teams of 7 players (4 men and 3 women, or 4 women and 3 men) play in direct competition with each other, and while most often people of the same gender mark each other, it is not uncommon to see match ups between people of different gender.\n\nA common form of mixed-sex sports involves pairs with one male and one female team member.\n\nSports based on dancing often have male/female pairings, such as pair figure skating, ice dancing, ballroom dancing and synchronised swimming duets. In these sports the male and female participants physically work together to produce an artistic and athletic performance.\n\nMixed doubles involves two mixed-sex pairs competing against each other with all four competitors in open play. This is particularly prominent in racket sports, including tennis, table tennis, badminton, squash and racquetball.\n\nMixed pairs and mixed teams events are occasionally organised in contract bridge.\n\nPairs may also compete in turn-based games, where men and women take turns alternately. This is found in more strategy-based sports, including mixed curling, mixed golf, mixed bowling and mixed team darts. Separate male and female performances may also be combined to produce mixed team results in such sports as diving. Synchronised diving is also found in mixed-sex format. Mixed tag team matches are also found in professional wrestling, where wrestlers are not explicitly competing in a turn-based manner, but are usually obliged to only face their opponent of the same sex.\n\nIn non-vehicular racing sports the physiological differences between the sexes often preclude head-to-head competition between people of different sexes at the elite level. As a result, mixed-sex events are most often held with a relay race format.\n\nIn running, a 4 × 400 metres mixed relay race was introduced at the 2017 IAAF World Relays, and will be added to the 2019 World Championships in Athletics and 2020 Summer Olympics.\n\nIn cross-country running, a 4 × 2 km mixed relay race was added at the 2017 IAAF World Cross Country Championships.\n\nIn swimming, mixed relay races were introduced at the 2014 FINA World Swimming Championships (25 m) (4 × 50 m freestyle and medley) and the 2015 World Aquatics Championships (4 × 100 m freestyle and medley). The event will debut at the 2020 Summer Olympics (4 × 100 m medley).\n\nIn triathlon, the ITU Triathlon Mixed Relay World Championships mixed relay race has been held since 2009. Also, the triathlon at the Youth Olympic Games has a mixed relay race since 2010. As in standard triathlons, each triathlon competitor must do a segment of swimming, cycling and running.\n\nIn biathlon, a mixed relay race was first held at the Biathlon World Championships 2005 in Khanty-Mansiysk (4 × 6 km), and it was added to the 2014 Winter Olympics (4 × 6 km / 7.5 km).\n\nThe mixed division is a staple of Ultimate, and it is the only division that was showcased at both the 2013 World Games and the 2017 World Games.\n\nMixed-sex forms of ball sports involve set numbers of each sex per team, and sometimes pre-defined roles in the team which people of that gender can play. Examples include korfball, coed softball, and wheelchair rugby.\n\nMixed-sex sport has a long history at the Olympic Games, dating back to the 1900 Summer Olympics, which was the first in which women participated. Two women competed against men in the equestrian, the croquet competition was mixed-sex, while Hélène de Pourtalès was the sole female sailor and first mixed-sex team champion, being part of a gold medal-winning Swiss team. The sole time Olympic motorboating was held in 1908, Sophia Gorham took part in a mixed British team.\n\nMixed doubles tennis was first contested in 1900 but fell off the programme after 1924 before being reintroduced in 2012. \nMixed doubles badminton was introduced in 1996.\n\nPair figure skating was present at the summer games in 1908 and 1920 before continuing as a founding event at the first Winter Olympic Games. Ice dancing expanded the mixed figure skating programme in 1976.\n\nSailing at the Summer Olympics was mostly mixed-sex up to 1988 but grew increasingly divided, with no mixed sailing events being held in 2012. Similarly, shooting at the Summer Olympics continued on a mixed basis in several events from 1968 to 1992, before competitors were restricted by sex.\n\nThere was an increased focus on mixed-sex competition at the start of the 21st century, with new introductions including mixed biathlon relay, team figure skating, and luge mixed team relay in 2014, then mixed curling and mixed team alpine skiing in 2018. Mixed team shooting events and table tennis mixed doubles are set for inauguration at the 2020 Summer Olympics. Mixed-sex relay events are also slated for the 2020 athletics and swimming programmes. These changes were as a result of an initiative by the International Olympic Committee to increase the level of female participation towards parity with men, with the recasting of men's events as mixed-sex ones being part of that change.\n\n"}
{"id": "35146814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35146814", "title": "North Junín Quechua", "text": "North Junín Quechua\n\nNorth Junín Quechua is a language dialect of Quechua spoken throughout the Andean highlands of the Northern Junín and Tarma Provinces of Perú. Dialects under North Junín Quechua include Tarma Quechua spoken in Tarma Province and the subdialect San Pedros de Cajas Quechua. North Junín Quechua belongs to the Yaru Quechua dialect cluster under the Quechua I dialects. Initially spoken by Huancas and neighboring Quechua people, Quechua's Junín dialect was absorbed by the Inca Empire in 1460 but relatively unaffected by the Southern Cuzco dialect. The Inca Empire had to defeat stiff resistance by the Huanca people. \n\nAfter the Spanish conquered the Inca Empire, bilingual speakers emerged as well as a variety of loanwords, introducing the sounds o and e. A debate whether Quechua has three or five vowel phonemes subsequently emerged concerning whether Quechua has /e/ and /o/ as separate phonemes. For example, Spanish borrowed kula meaning \"coca leaves, coca bush\" in Quechua to yield the word cola. This example illustrates a change of u to o when used in Spanish.\nTranslation of Spanish Catholic texts into Quechua led to a flowering period; yet, a series of failed rebellions near the end of the eighteenth century caused a declaration of insubordination directed at the Quechua language. Spanish replaced Quechua in schools starting from the 1970s. \n\nCurrently listed as an endangered language, San Pedros de Cajas dialect of Quechua has been under study and found in use mainly at home with Spanish being used in schools. A survey conducted in a secondary school resulted in only one out of fifty students answering that he/she used Quechua at home.\n\nRecent work by linguists have focused on tracing the origin of Quechua by comparing the reconstructed language, Proto- Quechua, with Proto-Aymaran. There exist arguments on both sides as Paul Heggarty argues against a distant relationship. Similarities have been found to span both proto-languages from reconstruction of a variety of Quechua dialects; commonalities include apa- meaning \"to carry,\" picqa meaning \"five,\" urqu meaning \"mountain,\" and qipa meaning \"before (space), after (time),\" all words in Junín Quechua. Qipa exemplifies relative temporal marking rather than tense marking.\n\nAn agglutinating language, Quechua has been analyzed by sub-grouping its copious morphemes together, particularly its suffixes. A feature of Junín Quechua and Quechua I, which includes North Junín dialect, belongs to characterization of non-final suffixes. Willem Adelaar has conducted extensive work on Quechua dialects and has published findings on the Tarma dialect.\n\nThe suffixes of verbs in basically every Quechua I dialect subdivides into final and non-final suffixes. North Junín Quechua holds a division of non-final verb suffixes into the left and right block. The right block, usually inflectional, participates in similar fashion to final verb suffixes in allowing long vowels. The left block merges (and co-lexicalizes) with verb roots such that its non-final verb suffixes can be both derivational and inflectional. A prescribed order affects the right-block suffixes such that, for a causative suffix, morphemes occur in a specified order regardless of their relationship to the subject. Vowel length can change meaning in ways including but not limited to marking first person, marking causation, and marking pronouns. These relationships form a structural explanation for Tarma Quechua's agglutinating script.\n\nTarma Quechua possesses some unique changes to the directional morphemes that denote \"Up,\" \"Down,\" \"In,\" and \"Out.\" The \"Down\" morpheme \"rpu\" exists as a left hand block suffix and has productively led to \"lpu\" meaning overcoming resistance in addition to simplification to \"ru.\" \n\nFor an inventory of phonemes of both Tarma and San Juan de Cajas dialects see and respectively. The de-aspiration of the phoneme tʃ, i.e. tʃ' -> tʃ, has been noted. In addition, stops do not have aspiration or glottalization, but can be voiced; as discussed earlier, vowel length can be phonemic.\n\nThe Tarma dialect has 3 vowels: /a, i, u/. All vowels have long equivalents, and North Junin displays contrastive vowel length. The consonant chart is from the Tarma dialect.\n\nThe variety of Tarma spoken in San Pedro de Cajas lacks a voiced bilabial stop /b/ and adds a voiceless uvular fricative /χ/.\n\nWe observe that nominalized clauses can be case marked entirely. The Huanca dialect of North Junin Quechua allows case marking of nominal clauses as the genitive case, restricted in most other Quechua dialects. Furthermore, the nominal clauses only mark relative temporal differences, i.e. no tense marking.\n"}
{"id": "51295154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51295154", "title": "Ofada rice", "text": "Ofada rice\n\nOfada rice is a name for heritage varieties of rice grown in south-west Nigeria. It is used in a variety of dishes. Ofada rices are mostly blends, and some of the rice varieties in the blends are not indigenous to Africa; however, they usually also contain African rice. It is grown almost exclusively in Ogun State, a state in Southwestern Nigeria. It is named after the town Ofada in Ogun State.\n\nOfada rice are mostly blends, and usually contain \"Oryza glaberrima\" (African rice) as well as the more common \"Oryza sativa\" Asian rice, and may be categorized as either brown/red Ofada or white Ofada on the basis of unmilled seed colour. Grain size, shape, and shade vary.\n\nOfada rice is unpolished. As African rice is more difficult to mill and polish, some or all of the rice bran is left on the grain, strengthening the flavour and making it more nutritious. Brown ofada rice is often very highly aromatic, whereas white ofada rice is typically non-aromatic. They are also known for swelling in size when cooked. It is sometimes processed using fermentation, which adds an aromatic quality to the product. \n\nOfada rice is typically priced higher compared to other available rice, and it has been regarded as a sign of status symbolism by some people. In contemporary times, it is sometimes served at classy parties.\n\nOfada rice has been grown in Ogun State since the 1940s. It is not indigenous to Africa. It is purported to have been smuggled by a soldier into Nigeria when the soldier returned from Asia and planted the rice in Ofada.\n\nOfada rice is named after the town Ofada, where it's cultivation first occurred. Ofada is located in Ogun state.\n\nOfada rice is traditionally served in an uma leaf (\"Thaumatococcus daniellii\"), with a sauce of ‘Atarodo’ (spicy) and 'Tatase’ (sweet) pepper, onion, locust beans, palm oil, and meat. It is a festive meal rather than an everyday type of food for most Nigerians but is everyday Street food for the towns of Ikenne and Ilisan in Ogun state. It is also often served along with a vegetable stew that may contain locust beans as an ingredient. It is often served with a Ayamase \"designer\" stew or Obe-ata-iru, both specially prepared for Ofada rice consumption.\n\nThe starch in Ofada rice can be used in pharmaceutical delivery.\n\nThe argument for the consumption of Ofada rice in recent years has been hotting up due to new information on the health benefits of Brown rice consumption. The benefits include, but not limited to:\n"}
{"id": "47699878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47699878", "title": "Ojude Oba festival", "text": "Ojude Oba festival\n\nOjude Oba is a Yoruba festival held in Ijebu Ode, a town in Ogun State, Southwestern Nigeria. It is held annually the third day after Eid al-Kabir.\nThe festival began over 100 years ago. Today, the festival is usually attended by over 250000 people across the six geopolitical zones of Nigeria. \nThe festival is often sponsored by the incumbent Awujale, the people of Ijebu-Ode, individuals and corporate organizations.\n\nAdetoun Sote wrote a book on the Ojude Oba Festival of Ijebu ode in the western part of Nigeria. The first book to be written on this festival.\n"}
{"id": "189292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=189292", "title": "Orgy", "text": "Orgy\n\nIn modern usage, an orgy is a sex party where guests freely engage in open and unrestrained sexual activity or group sex.\n\nSwingers' parties do not always conform to this designation, because at many swinger parties the sexual partners may all know each other or at least have some commonality among economic class, educational attainment or other shared attributes. Some swingers contend that an orgy, as opposed to a sex party, requires some anonymity of sexual partners in complete sexual abandon. Other kinds of \"sex party\" may fare less well with this labeling.\n\nParticipation in an \"orgy\" is a common sexual fantasy, and group sex targeting such consumers is a subgenre in pornographic films. \n\nThe term is also used metaphorically in expressions, such as an \"orgy of colour\" or an \"orgy of destruction\" to indicate excess, overabundance. The term \"orgiastic\" does not generally connote group sex and is closer to the classical roots and this metaphorical usage.\n\nIn ancient Greek religion, \"orgia\" (ὄργια, sing. ὄργιον, \"orgion\") were ecstatic rites characteristic of the Greek and Hellenistic mystery religions. Unlike public religion, or the private religious practices of a household, the mysteries were open only to initiates, and were thus \"secret\". Some rites were held at night. \"Orgia\" were part of the Eleusinian Mysteries, the Dionysian Mysteries, and the cult of Cybele, which involved the castration of her priests in a frenzied trance. Because of their secret, nocturnal, and unscripted nature, the \"orgia\" were subject to prurient speculation and regarded with suspicion, particularly by the Romans, who attempted to suppress the Bacchanals in 186 BC. \"Orgia\" are popularly thought to have involved sex, but, while sexuality and fertility were cultic concerns, the primary goal of the \"orgia\" was to achieve an ecstatic union with the divine.\n\nOrgy scenes are featured in various films, including \"The Wolf of Wall Street\".\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "37396560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37396560", "title": "Papel people", "text": "Papel people\n\nPapels, also called Moium, Oium, Papei, Pepel or Pelels, are an ethnic group established in Casamance (Senegal), Guinea Bissau and Guinea. Its population in Guinea Bissau is 115,000 (7%), according to the 2012 estimate. They traditionally engaged in hunting and agriculture.\n\nThe Papel people live traditionally around the city of Bissau, in the Biombo Region. They are linguistically and culturally close to mankagnes and Manjack or Manjacas. They are traditionally farmers. So, they have one of the most suitable land for rice cultivation. Like the Manjacks, their names are Portuguese because of the Portuguese occupation of the country from the late 15th century until 1973. Surnames characteristic of this ethnic group are: Pereira, Lopes, Vieira, Correia, Monteiro, Ca, etc.\n\nTheir language is the Papel, which is one of the Niger–Congo languages. The estimated number of speakers was 136,000 in Guinea Bissau in 2006.\n\nMost Papel are Christians, usually Catholic, but also Animists. Ancestor worship is an important part of his culture, like in most of the African nations. For example, after a burial ceremony honoring \"Toka Chur\", held from a few months to several years after the actual funeral, has social prestige.\n"}
{"id": "42657043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42657043", "title": "Part-time job terrorism", "text": "Part-time job terrorism\n\nJapanese culture is often associated with long hours, some individuals working as many as 60 hours a week. Such working hours are associated with mental and physiological health complications, with Japanese newspapers citing rare cases of spontaneous death, informally known as Karōshi. To complicate matters further, Japanese offices are often noisy, smoke-filled (due to lack of smoking laws) environments and this may have further adverse effects on the health and well-being of employees. Part-time job terrorism might in this context be a form of escapism, disenchanted employees gaining support from their peers outside of work to compensate for the praise or reward their working life lacks.\n\nThe social phenomenon emerged around the summer of 2013, when internet-based Japanese news agencies such as Yukan-news recorded such an incident. with more traditional news agencies later following suit. In Japanese the social phenomenon is termed \"baito tero\". The name stems from the Japanese word \"baito\", which means \"part-time job\" and is a loan-word originating from the German \"arbeit\", meaning \"work\". \n\nJapanese employers are nonplussed by such shenanigans, and penalties and punishment can range from administrative tongue-lashings to termination of employment; employees can also, in some circumstances, be held financially accountable for loss of business due to the negative publicity.\n\nhttp://www.justlanded.com/english/Japan/Japan-Guide/Jobs/Working-in-Japan\nhttp://www.oxforddictionaries.com/definition/english/karoshi\nhttp://thisjapaneselife.org/2013/02/27/on-smoking-cigarettes-in-japan/\nhttp://www.hindawi.com/journals/bmri/2014/303917/\n\n"}
{"id": "8205972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8205972", "title": "Potamkin Prize", "text": "Potamkin Prize\n\nThe Potamkin Prize for Research in Pick's, Alzheimer's, and Related Diseases was established in 1988 and is sponsored by the American Academy of Neurology. The prize is funded through the philanthropy of the Potamkin Foundation. The prize is awarded for achievements on emerging areas of research in Pick's disease, Alzheimer's disease and other dementias. \n\nThe award includes a medallion, $100,000 prize, and a 20-minute lecture at the American Academy of Neurology annual meeting. The prize is named after Luba Potamkin (wife of Victor Potamkin) who, in 1978, was diagnosed with a form of dementia which was identified as Pick's disease, a form of frontotemporal dementia.\n\nSource: American Academy of Neurology\n\n"}
{"id": "36895424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36895424", "title": "Praskozorje", "text": "Praskozorje\n\nPraskozorje is a Bosnian panslavistic movement. As noted on the official website, the movement was founded to promote cultural revival of the Bosnian people and disappearance of ethno-religious hatred among different (south) Slavic ethnicities.\n\nThe movement was founded in 2009 by a group of young like-minded people in Sarajevo, the capital of Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\nPraskozorje insists on Slavic revival of the country through promotion of the medieval period when Bosnian state (banate and kingdom) was founded and achieved its cultural and economic peak while also insisting on restoring old Slavic traditions, beliefs and mythology. The movement rejects vision of the country provided by the politicians in three modern constitutive peoples. Members also show negative stance towards capitalism, greater Serbia ideology, greater Croatia ideology, Islamism, Neo-Ottomanism and Neoimperialism among Bosnian (and other Slavic nations) itself, promoting the idea about free Slavic nations and Slavic unity.\n\n"}
{"id": "11241476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11241476", "title": "Project on Emerging Nanotechnologies", "text": "Project on Emerging Nanotechnologies\n\nThe Project on Emerging Nanotechnologies was established in 2005 as a partnership between the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars and the Pew Charitable Trusts. The Project was intended to address the social, political, and public safety aspects of nanotechnology. It intended in particular to look for research and policy gaps and opportunities in knowledge and regulatory processes, and to develop strategies for closing them. The project worked with multiple U.S. and foreign governments and organizations.\n\nThe project's stated goal was \"to inform the debate and to create an active public and policy dialogue. It was not an advocate either for, or against, particular nanotechnologies. Rather, the Project sought to ensure that as these technologies are developed, potential human health and environmental risks were anticipated, properly understood, and effectively managed.\"\n\nThey have produced many publications on the various aspects of nanotechnology policy. One of the notable reports is on \"Managing the Effects of Nanotechnology\", written by J. Clarence (Terry) Davies in 2006. They also maintain several online databases including the widely cited consumer products inventory, the \"Nanotechnology Health and Environmental Implications: An inventory of current research\" as well as a series of PEN Reports. Their work has also been published in academic journals such as Nature Nanotechnology.\n\nA major activity of the Project was testimony on public forums.\n\nThe Advisory Board included Linda J. Fisher, Vice President and Chief sustainability officer at DuPont, Margaret A. Hamburg M.D., Vice President for Biological Programs, Nuclear Threat Initiative, Donald Kennedy, editor-in-chief of Science magazine and president emeritus and Bing Professor of Environmental Science, Emeritus, at Stanford University, John Ryan is Director of the Bionanotechnology IRC at Oxford University, and Stan Williams, Senior Fellow and Director of Quantum Science Research at Hewlett-Packard.\n\n"}
{"id": "301012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=301012", "title": "Raymond Washington", "text": "Raymond Washington\n\nRaymond Lee Washington (August 14, 1953 – August 9, 1979) was an American gangster, known as the founder of the Crips gang in Los Angeles, California. Washington formed the Crips as a minor street gang in the late 1960s in Los Angeles' South Central area, becoming a prominent local crime boss. In 1971, Washington formed an alliance with Stanley \"Tookie\" Williams, establishing the Crips as the first major African-American street gang in Los Angeles, and served as one of the co-leaders. In 1974, Washington was convicted of robbery and received a five-year prison sentence, during which his leadership and influence in the Crips declined.\n\nOn August 9, 1979, Washington was assassinated in a drive-by shooting shortly after his release from prison.\n\nRaymond Lee Washington was born in Los Angeles, California, on August 14, 1953, the youngest of four sons to Violet Samuel and Reginald Washington. His parents separated when he was two years old, and he was raised by his mother and stepfather. He grew up on East 76th Street, between Wadsworth Avenue and Central Avenues in Los Angeles' South Central. Washington had a half-brother, Derard S. Barton, from his mother's second marriage.\n\nAccording to neighbours of Washington, he developed an affinity for fist fighting as an adolescent, and was constantly in trouble with the Los Angeles Police Department for various offenses. Washington's mother is quoted as saying, \"Raymond was a good kid when he was a boy. Raymond didn't go out of his way to fight or do anything bad, but if someone came to him, he would protect himself. And he was well-built. He tried to protect the community and keep the bad guys out. But after a while, every time I looked up, the police were coming to the house looking for Raymond.\" Some neighbors remembered Washington differently: Lorrie Griffin Moss, who resided across the street from Washington on E 76th Street, said, \"I don't have a whole lot of good to say about Raymond. Raymond was a bully. A muscular bully. He wouldn't let anybody from outside our neighborhood bother us. He would bother us. Raymond could be very mean.\" A friend stated that Washington was a good football player, but never participated as a member of school sports team due to his poor grades. Washington was repeatedly expelled from schools resulting in frequent transfers, attending Locke High School, John C. Fremont High School, an alternative school attached to Washington Preparatory High School, and Fairfax High School in the Fairfax District near West Hollywood.\n\nIn the late 1960s, there was a dramatic increase in youth crime in Los Angeles, particularly in and around South Central's Watts neighborhood. Crime was especially prevalent in the three housing projects located in Watts, known as \"the Bricks\": Imperial Courts, Nickerson Gardens and Jordan Downs, where violent street robberies were common among adolescent criminals. Older African-American street gangs in South Central like the Slausons, the Businessmen, and the Gladiators, had been ended by activist groups such as the Black Panther Party and the US Organization. The absence of the old gangs saw numerous new youth gangs begin to form in their place, including the Sportsmans Park, New House Boys, Acey Duecy, and Chain Gang, on West Side.\n\nWashington, a native of the East Side in his early teens during the rise of the gangs, joined a local street gang called The Avenues, led by another teenager named Craig Munson. At age 15, Washington beat up Munson's younger brother in fist fight after discovering Munson had put a gun to his older brother, Reggie Washington. After the fight, Washington and one of his other older brothers, Ronald Joe, confronted Munson on the corner of E 81st Street and Avalon Boulevard. According to former gang members who knew Washington at the time, he was subsequently beaten up by Craig Munson in retaliation for his younger brother's beating, and Washington left The Avenues. In late 1969, Washington organized his own gang called the Baby Avenues, recruiting a group of other neighborhood youths in South Central. The Baby Avenues wanted to emulate a gang of older youths called The Avenue Boys, which had been active since 1964 on Central Avenue.\n\nBy 1969, the Baby Avenues had re-branded themselves as The Crips, derived from Reggie Washington's nickname, and the size of the gang had grown rapidly. Fist fighting was the primary method of combat used by street gangs in Los Angeles at the time, and Washington developed a reputation as one of the best fist fighters in South Central's East Side. Washington used his fighting prowess to gain respect and fear from other gang members in the East Side, establishing himself as the natural leader of Crips, and used his reputation to influence smaller African-American youth gangs to join. This resulted in a network of Crip \"sets\" (subgroups) across the East Side, including the Avalon Gardens Crips, the Eastside Crips, the Inglewood Crips, under Washington's ultimate control.\n\nIn 1971, Washington approached Stanley \"Tookie\" Williams, a similar gang leader from South Central's West Side who used his reputation as a fist fighter to unite gangs under his control, at Washington Preparatory High School where both were attending. Washington had heard of Williams through a mutual friend, who had informed Washington of Williams' toughness and his willingness to fight members of larger, more established street gangs such as the L.A. Brims and the Chain Gang. According to Williams' account of the meeting, what struck him about Washington was that, besides being incredibly muscular, he and his cohort were dressed similar to Williams and his clique, wearing leather jackets with starched Levi's jeans and suspenders. Washington proposed to Williams they form a confederation of the gangs under their influence in their respective areas along with another teenage gang leader called Mac Thomas in Compton, to form a single large street gang. The proposal would see Williams' gangs adopt the Crip branding and would be allied with other Crip gangs outside of the West Side, but would retain ultimate leadership in the East Side. Williams accepted Washington's proposal, uniting the West Side gangs under his influence as the West Side Crips.\n\nThe Crips quickly established themselves as the largest street gang in Los Angeles, with increasing numbers and territory as their influence spread across low-income black neighborhoods. Washington, Williams and Thomas effectively held a monopoly on criminal activity in these areas, and became the dominant crime bosses. Street gangs that had resisted being absorbed into the Crips soon formed their own confederate alliance, the Bloods, to protect their independence and their interests in the criminal market. The founding of the Bloods sparked an instant rivalry between the new large gangs that saw a surge in violent crime in Los Angeles, as neighboring Crip and Blood sets began using increasing violence to fight over territory and personal feuds. With the rise of media coverage, which put these new violent gangs on the front page, soon many disaffected black youths were running to join the Crips, many without ever being contacted by gang leaders. One story at the time stated:\n\nWithin a few years, much of the original Crip leadership were either imprisoned or dead. On February 23, 1973, Curtis \"Buddha\" Morrow, a close friend of Tookie Williams and a high-ranking Crip enforcer, was shot to death in South Central following a petty argument. Mac Thomas was murdered under mysterious circumstances in the mid-1970s.\n\nIn 1974, 21-year-old Washington was arrested for 2nd degree robbery and sentenced to five years imprisonment at the Deuel Vocational Institution in Tracy, becoming the first Crip to be incarcerated there. Washington was unpopular among the prison population as he began to recruit young African-American inmates into the Crips, much to the disapproval of established black prison groups like the Black Muslims and the Black Guerrilla Family. According to a former inmate who was housed at Deuel with Washington, the Black Muslims and the Black Guerrilla Family were aware of the spread of the Crips in Los Angeles, and warned Washington that they would not tolerate the formation of Crips in the prison. Washington faced another problem while serving time at Deuel: as the Crips murdered rival gang members on the streets of Los Angeles, inmates at Deuel who were relatives of victims held Washington responsible for their deaths. Greg \"Batman\" Davis, a friend of Washington and an original Crips member, stated \"People in the prisons was losing their loved ones on the streets and because Raymond was the founder of the Crips, they blamed him for it. And since Raymond was the only Crip up there (at Deuel) at the time, they were trying to kill him.\"\n\nIn the 1979, Washington was released from prison after serving his sentence and returned to Los Angeles. Reportedly, Washington was shocked to discover that the violent war between the Crips, Bloods, and Hispanic gangs had escalated to the point that fighting using firearms, as opposed to fist fighting, was now normal. Over the next few months, Washington became disillusioned with the Crips as the gang committed more violent and senseless crimes, with new recruits seeking to build their reputations. Since Washington's imprisonment, the organization had totally broken down into loosely-affiliated decentralized sets that often fought each other, as the Crips' original leadership had disappeared. Tookie Williams, the last remaining original Crip leader, served as the \"de facto\" leader during Washington's imprisonment. Williams had been injured in a drive-by shooting in 1976, and developed a growing addiction to PCP that caused his authority to wane until he was arrested for four counts of homicide shortly before Washington was released. According to law enforcement, former gang members and close friends, Washington had decided that the Crips needed to be brought back under one umbrella organization to stop infighting, and then to work towards a truce with the Bloods. Upon realizing he no longer held influence in the gang, Washington started to distance himself from the Crips.\n\nAt around 10:00 PM on August 9, 1979, 25-year-old Washington was murdered in a drive-by shooting on the corner of E 64th Street and S San Pedro Street in South Central Los Angeles, and was rushed to Morningside Hospital where he died while undergoing emergency surgery. No suspects have been arrested, and Washington's murder remains unsolved. It was reported that Washington was hanging out on the corner when a car pulled up and the unidentified occupants called him over to the car. Washington's associates, as well as the police, were aware he would never walk up to cars of people that he did not know, and most likely knew the occupants of the vehicle as he told an acquaintance that he knew them. Washington engaged in a brief conversation with them before the occupant in the passenger seat drew a sawed-off shotgun and shot him in the abdomen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12743895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12743895", "title": "Rema Lapouse Award", "text": "Rema Lapouse Award\n\nRema Lapouse Award is granted to an outstanding scientist in the area of psychiatric epidemiology in recognition of \"significant contributions to the scientific understanding of the epidemiology and control of mental disorders. It is sponsored by the Mental Health, Epidemiology, and Applied Public Health Statistics Sections of the American Public Health Association. It was established in 1972 by the American physician Milton Terris in honor of his wife, Dr. Rema Lapouse, who was a founding member of the Mental Health Section.\n\n"}
{"id": "3518432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3518432", "title": "Schizophreniform disorder", "text": "Schizophreniform disorder\n\nSchizophreniform disorder is a mental disorder diagnosed when symptoms of schizophrenia are present for a significant portion of the time within a one-month period, but signs of disruption are not present for the full six months required for the diagnosis of schizophrenia.\n\nThe symptoms of both disorders can include delusions, hallucinations, disorganized speech, disorganized or catatonic behavior, and social withdrawal. While impairment in social, occupational, or academic functioning is required for the diagnosis of schizophrenia, in schizophreniform disorder an individual's level of functioning may or may not be affected. While the onset of schizophrenia is often gradual over a number of months or years, the onset of schizophreniform disorder can be relatively rapid.\n\nLike schizophrenia, schizophreniform disorder is often treated with antipsychotic medications, especially the atypicals, along with a variety of social supports (such as individual psychotherapy, family therapy, occupational therapy, etc.) designed to reduce the social and emotional impact of the illness. The prognosis varies depending upon the nature, severity, and duration of the symptoms, but about two-thirds of individuals diagnosed with schizophreniform disorder go on to develop schizophrenia.\n\nSchizophreniform disorder is a type of mental illness that is characterized by psychosis and closely related to schizophrenia. Both schizophrenia and schizophreniform disorder, as defined by the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\" (DSM-IV-TR), have the same symptoms and essential features except for two differences: the level of functional impairment and the duration of symptoms. Impairment in social, occupational, or academic functioning is usually present in schizophrenia, particularly near the time of first diagnosis, but such impairment may or may not be present in schizophreniform disorder. In schizophreniform disorder, the symptoms (including prodromal, active, and residual phases) must last at least 1 month but not more than 6 months, while in schizophrenia the symptoms must be present for a minimum of 6 months.\n\nIf the symptoms have persisted for at least one month, a provisional diagnosis of schizophreniform disorder can be made while waiting to see if recovery occurs. If the symptoms resolve within 6 months of onset, the provisional qualifier is removed from the diagnosis. However, if the symptoms persist for 6 months or more, the diagnosis of schizophreniform disorder must be revised. The diagnosis of brief psychotic disorder may be considered when the duration of symptoms is less than one month.\n\nThe main symptoms of both schizophreniform disorder and schizophrenia may include:\n\nThe following specifiers for schizophreniform disorder may be used to indicate the presence or absence of features that may be associated with a better prognosis:\n\n\nThe presence of negative symptoms and poor eye contact both appear to be prognostic of a poor outcome. Many of the anatomic and functional changes seen in the brains of patients with schizophrenia also occur in patients with schizophreniform disorder. However, at present there is no consensus among scientists regarding whether or not ventricular enlargement, which is a poor prognostic factor in schizophrenia, has any prognostic value in patients with schizophreniform disorder. According to the American Psychiatric Association, approximately two-thirds of patients diagnosed with \"provisional\" schizophreniform disorder are subsequently diagnosed with schizophrenia; the remaining keep a diagnosis of schizophreniform disorder.\n</div>\n\nCauses schizophrenia\nIt is generally agreed that schizophrenia is caused by a combination of factors rather than a single one.\n\nDopamine\nDopamine is one of the chemicals that carries messages between brain cells. There is evidence that too much dopamine may be involved in the development of schizophrenia, but it’s still not clear how, or whether everyone diagnosed with schizophrenia has too much dopamine. Neuroleptic drugs (antipsychotics), which are sometimes used to treat schizophrenia, target the dopamine system.\nStressful life events\nHighly stressful or life-changing events may trigger schizophrenia. These include:\n• Social isolation\n• being out of work\n• living in poverty\n• being homeless\n• losing someone close to you\n• being physically or verbally abused, or harassed.\n\nDrug abuse\nSome people may develop symptoms of schizophrenia as a result of using cannabis or other street drugs such as cocaine and amphetamines.\n\nInheritance\nSome families seem to be prone to schizophrenia, which suggests a genetic link. Rather than there being a specific gene for schizophrenia however, it is thought that certain genes might make some people more vulnerable to the condition.\n\nSchizophreniform disorder is equally prevalent among men and women. The most common ages of onset are 18–24 for men and 18–35 for women. While the symptoms of schizophrenia often develop gradually over a period of years, the diagnostic criteria for schizophreniform disorder require a much more rapid onset.\n\nAvailable evidence suggests variations in incidence across sociocultural settings. In the United States and other developed countries, the incidence is low, possibly fivefold less than that of schizophrenia. In developing countries, the incidence is substantially higher, especially for the subtype \"With Good Prognostic Features\". In some of these settings schizophreniform disorder may be as common as schizophrenia.\n\nVarious modalities of treatment, including pharmacotherapy, psychotherapy, and various other psychosocial and educational interventions, are used in the treatment of schizophreniform disorder. Pharmacotherapy is the most commonly used treatment modality as psychiatric medications can act quickly to both reduce the severity of symptoms and shorten their duration. The medications used are largely the same as those used to treat schizophrenia, with an atypical antipsychotic as the usual drug of choice. Patients who do not respond to the initial atypical antipsychotic may benefit from\nbeing switched to another atypical antipsychotic, the addition of a mood stabilizer such as lithium or an anticonvulsant, or being switched to a typical antipsychotic.\n\nTreatment of schizophreniform disorder can occur in inpatient, outpatient, and partial hospitalization settings. In selecting the treatment setting, the primary aims are to minimize the psychosocial consequences for the patient and maintain the safety of the patient and others. While the need to quickly stabilize the patient's symptoms almost always exists, consideration of the patient's severity of symptoms, family support, and perceived likelihood of compliance with outpatient treatment can help determine if stabilization can occur in the outpatient setting. Patients who receive inpatient treatment may benefit from a structured intermediate environment, such as a sub-acute unit, step-down unit, partial hospital, or day hospital, during the initial phases of returning to the community.\n\nAs improvement progresses during treatment, help with coping skills, problem-solving techniques, psychoeducational approaches, and eventually occupational therapy and vocational assessments are often very helpful for patients and their families. Virtually all types of individual psychotherapy are used in the treatment of schizophreniform disorder, except for insight-oriented therapies as patients often have limited insight as a symptom of their illness.\n\nSince schizophreniform disorder has such rapid onset of severe symptoms, patients are sometimes in denial about their illness, which also would limit the efficacy of insight-oriented therapies. Supportive forms of psychotherapy such as interpersonal psychotherapy, supportive psychotherapy, and cognitive behavior therapy are particularly well suited for the treatment of the disorder. Group psychotherapy is usually not indicated for patients with schizophreniform disorder because they may be distressed by the symptoms of patients with more advanced psychotic disorders.\n\n"}
{"id": "12270966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12270966", "title": "Sierra Leone Red Cross Society", "text": "Sierra Leone Red Cross Society\n\nSierra Leone Red Cross Society (SLRCS) was established in 1962 by an act of Parliament. It has its headquarters in Freetown.\n\n"}
{"id": "15096697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15096697", "title": "Slavery in Angola", "text": "Slavery in Angola\n\nSlavery in Angola existed since the late 15th century when Portugal established contacts with the peoples living in what is the Northwest of the present country, and founded several trade posts on the coast. A number of those peoples, like the Imbangala and the Mbundu, were active slave traders for centuries (see African slave trade). In the late 16th century, Kingdom of Portugal's explorers founded the fortified settlement of Luanda, and later on minor trade posts and forts on the Kwanza River as well as on the Atlantic coast southwards until Benguela. The main component of their trading activities consisted in a heavy involvement in the Atlantic slave trade. Slave trafficking was abolished in 1836 by the Portuguese authorities.\n\nThe Portuguese Empire conquered the Mbundu people of Angola, incorporating the local economy into the Atlantic slave trade. In 1610, Friar Luís Brandão, the head of Portuguese-run Luanda Jesuit college, wrote to a Jesuit who questioned the legality of the enslavement of native Angolans, saying, \"We have been here ourselves for forty years and there have been many learned men here and in the province of Brazil who never have considered the trade illicit.\" He further stated that only a small number of Natives may have been enslaved illegally, and that the Portuguese at least converted them to Christianity. Angola exported slaves at a rate of 10,000 per year in 1612. The Portuguese built a new port in Benguela in 1616 to expand Portugal's access to Angolan slaves. From 1617 to 1621, during the governorship of Luís Mendes de Vasconcellos, up to 50,000 Angolans were enslaved and shipped to the Americas. The \"Vergulde Valck\", Dutch slave-traders, bought 675 of the 1,000 slaves sold in Angola in 1660.\n\nDuring at least the 18th and 19th centuries, Angola was the principal source of slaves who were forced into the Atlantic slave trade.\n\nFor several decades, slave trade with the Portuguese colony of Brazil was important in Portuguese Angola; Brazilian ships were the most numerous in the ports of Luanda and Benguela. This slave trade also involved local black merchants and warriors who profited from the trade. In the 17th century, the Imbangala became the main rivals of the Mbundu in supplying slaves to the Luanda market. In the 1750s the Portuguese sold 5,000 to 10,000 slaves annually, devastating the Mbundu economy and population. The Portuguese gave guns to Imbangala soldiers in return for slaves. Armed with superior weapons, Imbangala soldiers captured and sold natives on a far larger scale as every new slave translated into a better-armed force of aggressors. A combined force of Portuguese and Imbangala soldiers attacked and conquered the Kingdom of Ndongo from 1618 to 1619, laying siege to the Ndongo capital of Kabasa. The Portuguese sold thousands of Kabasa residents with 36 ships leaving the port of Luanda in 1619, setting a new record, destined for slave plantations abroad. In the 18th century, war between the Portuguese, other European powers and several African tribes, gradually gave way to trade. The great trade routes and the agreements that made them possible were the driving force for activities between the different areas; warlike tribal states become states ready to produce and to sell. In the Planalto (the high plains), the most important states were those of Bié and Bailundo, the latter being noted for its production of foodstuffs and rubber. The colonial power, Portugal, becoming ever richer and more powerful, would not tolerate the growth of these neighbouring states and subjugated them one by one, so that by the beginning of this century the Portuguese had complete control over the entire area. From 1764 onwards, there was a gradual change from a slave-based society to one based on production for domestic consumption, and later for export. After the independence of Brazil from Portugal in 1822, the institution of slavery in Portugal's overseas possessions was abolished in 1836 by the Portuguese authorities.\n\nThe Portuguese Empire first established a \"de jure\" system of forced labour known as \"chibalo\" throughout its colonies in 1899, but the Portuguese government did not implement the system in Angola until 1911 and abolished it in 1913. Republicans overthrew King Manuel II in a coup d'état in October 1910. Workers in Moçâmedes, among other cities in Angola, campaigned for abolition and manumission. In some areas forced labourers declared strikes, hoping the economic slowdown would force political changes. Carvalhal Correia Henriques, the new governor of Moçâmedes, supported their claims and directed labor complaints his way. The Portuguese First Republic, the new state, abolished forced labour again, but the employers whose businesses depended on forced labour used their political clout to lobby the Portuguese government to fire Henriques. The Portuguese government legalized forced labour in Angola again in 1911, dismissed Henriques in January 1912, and abolished the practice again in 1913.\n\nIn 1926, the 28 May 1926 coup d'état empowered António de Oliveira Salazar in Portugal. Later that year, Salazar reestablished forced labour, ordering colonial authorities to force nearly all adult, male, ethnic minorities in Portugal's African colonies to work. The government told workers that they would only have to work for six months of every year. In practice, this obligation was a life sentence of forced labor. Civil rights for natives, no longer treated as natural law, had to be \"earned\" on a case by case basis under the designation of \"assimilade\". Less than 1% of the native population ever achieved this designation. By 1947, 40% of workers died each year with a 60% infant mortality rate.\n\nBy 1940 the white population in Angola had risen to forty thousand, 2% of the population. Most of these émigrés, illiterate and landless, took the best farming land, regardless of availability, without compensating existing landowners. The authorities expelled natives, forcing them to harvest maize, coffee, and beans. Natives could \"volunteer\" to work on the plantations, \"voluntários\", or face conscription, working for $1.50 per month as \"contratados\". This system of forced labour prompted 500,000 Angolans to flee, creating a labor shortage, which in turn created the need for more workers for the colonial economy. By 1947, 40% of the forced labourers died each year with a 60% infant mortality rate in the territory (according to The World Factbook's 2007 estimates, infant mortality rate (deaths/1,000 live births) in modern-day Angola was 184.44 - the worst result among all countries in the world). Historian Basil Davidson visited Angola in 1954 and found 30% of all adult males working in these conditions; \"there was probably more coercion than ever before.\" Marcelo Caetano, Portugal's Minister of the Colonies, recognized the inherent flaws in the system, which he described as using natives \"like pieces of equipment without any concern for their yearning, interests, or desires\". Parliament held a closed session in 1947 to discuss the deteriorating situation. Henrique Galvão, Angolan deputy to the Portuguese National Assembly, read his \"Report on Native Problems in the Portuguese Colonies\". Galvão condemned the \"shameful outrages\" he had uncovered, the forced labour of \"women, of children, of the sick, [and] of decrepit old men.\" He concluded that in Angola, \"only the dead are really exempt from forced labor.\" The government's control over the natives eliminated the worker-employer's incentive to keep his employees alive because, unlike in other colonial societies, the state replaced deceased workers without directly charging the employer. The Portuguese government refuted the report and arrested Galvão in 1952. In 1961, Galvão was involved in the hijacking of a Portuguese luxury cruise liner.\n\nWorkers employed by Cotonang, a Portuguese-Belgian cotton plantation company, revolted on January 3, calling on the Portuguese to improve their working rights and leave Angola. The revolt, commonly considered the first battle of the Angolan War of Independence, ended in a \nblood bath.\n\nNative protesters attacked São Paulo fortress, the largest prison and military establishment in Luanda, trying to free the prisoners and killing seven policemen. The Portuguese authorities killed forty attackers before gangs of white Angolans committed random acts of violence against the ethnic majority.\n\nPortuguese authorities killed 49 people on February 5. On February 10, Portuguese authorities suppressed another unsuccessful attempt at freeing the prisoners. Bakongo farmers and coffee-plantation workers revolted on March 15, near Baixa de Cassanje, killing white Angolans and black workers, burning plantations, bridges, government facilities, and police stations, and destroying barges and ferries. The Portuguese Air Force responded by bombing a area with napalm killing 20,000 people, including 750 white Angolans, within the first six months of 1961.\n\nThe Portuguese Army and Air Force put down the uprising and blacked out the incident to the press. The People's Movement for the Liberation of Angola (MPLA) said the Portuguese military killed ten thousand people in the massacre. Conservative estimates are around 400 casualties. These events are considered the beginning of the Portuguese Colonial War (1961-1974).\n\nAfter the April 1974 Carnation Revolution in Lisbon, Angola was offered independence from Portugal. After independence in 1975, during the Angolan Civil War (1975-2002), both the largest opposition group, National Union for the Total Independence of Angola (UNITA), and the government ruled by the MPLA, used child soldiers in the civil war. Children's rights groups have estimated that as many as 11,000 children were involved in the last years of the fighting only. Some children received weapons and arms training and fought in the conflict. Many others acted as porters, cooks, spies and laborers. In 2003, one year after the conflict ended in mainland Angola, some UNITA soldiers who were 18 or older were incorporated into the national army and police. Others were demobilized in a national program and received needed assistance. But child soldiers, many of whom performed the same duties as adults, were denied these benefits.\n\nIn current day Angola, high levels of child trafficking, commercial sexual exploitation, pornography, forced labor, sexual slavery, and other forms of exploitation are reported, in part due to the civil war-caused break down of social structures and traditional security mechanisms active before independence. Angola is a source country for significant number of men, women and children trafficked for the purposes of forced labor or sexual exploitation. Children have been trafficked internally and also to Namibia and South Africa for the purposes of sexual exploitation and domestic and commercial labor. The Government of Angola does not fully comply with the minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking.\n\nAt present, it is estimated that over one million primary school age children are out of school, the majority of them being girls. There is a strong correlation between women’s education and the increased vulnerability of both mothers and children to a range of life-threatening conditions, including forced labour and prostitution.\n\n"}
{"id": "46783443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46783443", "title": "Terengganuan Malay people", "text": "Terengganuan Malay people\n\nTerengganuan Malays (Malaysian: \"Melayu Terengganu\", Terengganu Malay: \"Oghang Tranung\") are a sub-ethnic group of Malays native to the state of Terengganu, on the east coast of Peninsular Malaysia. Besides Terengganu, they can also be found in the neighbouring states of Pahang (in the districts of Kuantan, Pekan and Rompin), Johor (especially in Mersing) and their descendants can also be found in the Anambas Islands (part of the Riau Islands province) in Indonesia. , it is estimated that the population of Terengganuan Malays are around 1.1 million people, which forms 94% of Terengganu state's population, making them the dominant ethnic group in the state. \n\nTerengganuan Malays have a distinct cultural, historical and linguistic identity from the rest of the Malay ethnic group in the country, especially their spoken language, which is somewhat mutually unintelligible to West Coast Peninsular Malaysian Malay speakers. Terengganu Malays also have a strong state identity and they used to have their own independent sultanate which still exists today but became part of Malaya (later Malaysia). Terengganuans, along with the Kelantanese and Pahangites are considered as \"Orang Pantai Timur\" (People of the East Coast) and these three groups have close ties in terms of cultures, languages, history and kinship.\n\nThere are several theories on the origin of the name 'Terengganu'. One theory attributes the name's origin to terang ganu, Malay for 'bright rainbow'. Another story, said to have been originally narrated by the ninth Sultan of Terengganu, Baginda Omar, tells of a party of hunters from Pahang roving and hunting in the area of what is now southern Terengganu. One of the hunters spotted a big animal fang lying on the ground. A fellow party member asked to which animal did the fang belong. The hunter, not knowing which animal, simply answered taring anu (Malay: 'fang of something'). The party later returned to Pahang with a rich hoard of game, fur and sandalwood, which impressed their neighbours. They asked the hunters where did they source their riches, to which they replied, from the land of taring anu, which later evolved into Terengganu. Terengganu was called Trangkanu (Thai: ตรังกานู) by the Siamese when it was under their influence. \n\nTerengganuan Malays usually refer to themselves as \"Oghang Tranung, Teganu, Ganung or Ganu\".\n\n\"See: Terengganu Malay\"\n\nTerengganuan Malays are widely known for their unique spoken language called Terengganu Malay or in their native language as \"Base Tranung\" (which means \"Terengganu language\") or \"Cakak Tranung\" (which means \"Speak Terengganu\"). Terengganu Malay is closely related to Kelantanese Malay (\"Baso Kelate\") and Pahang Malay (\"Base Pahang\") and these three can easily communicated with each other despite phonological differences (As well as some vocabulary differences). However, not all Terengganuan Malay people in Terengganu use Terengganuan, in the districts of Besut and northern Setiu, Kelantanese Malay is much popular among the people there as their culture and customs are much closer to Kelantan than other parts of Terengganu. Terengganu Malay has several distinct dialects but it is divided into two major ones namely Coastal, or Terengganu Malay proper and Inland, also known as \"Base Ulu\" (Language of the inland) or \"Base Kole Berang\" (Kuala Berang language/dialect). Both varieties have a distinct phonology as well as some vocabulary and sometimes mutually unintelligible to one another (although Inland speakers are more exposed to Coastal dialects than vice versa). Coastal Terengganu Malay is further divided into several sub-dialects which only has minimal differences, mostly vocabulary.\n\nThe Terengganuan Malay community is rich in culture and traditions and is considered as the \"Cradle of the Malay civilization\" in West Malaysia. In Terengganu, there are several types of traditional Malay theatres, such as \"Rodak\", \"Teater Nur Sakti\" and \"Tariang Pula\" (Pulai dance), \"Tariang Saba\" (Saba dance), \"Tariang Bala\" (Balai dance) and so on. However, the most well known traditional dance of Terengganu are \"Tariang Ulek Mayang\", the dance is usually performed by the seaside at the \"Pesta Puje Pata\" (Sea Worshipping Festival) at the end of the year and is meant to heal sickness. Nevertheless, such dances today are simply considered as cultural performance instead of using it as a worship. Like its neighbour Kelantan, Terengganu is one of Malaysia's most conservative states but the level of religious and ethnic tolerance is very high and the level of assimilation is also unique compared to other Malaysia states. Chinese, Indian, Malay as well as Siamese communities are getting along very well, and many can speak the local Terengganu Malay along with their native languages/dialects.\n\nTerengganu has many unique traditional cuisines which added the diversity of native Malay dishes in this country. Among the nutritious and delicious traditional Terengganuan Malay food is the Keropok Lekor (which is also referred to as \"Keppok Gongdee\", \"Keppok Panjang\" or \"Keppok Batang\" by Terengganuans). Apart from that, Budu (sauce) is also another popular dish in Terengganu. Now more and more people recognize and are aware of this nutritious Budu (sauce) as \"Sos bilis\" (anchovy sauce). In addition, the Nasi Dagang Teregganu is one of the most popular foods among the people of Terengganu and is easily available at almost every restaurant in Terengganu. There are a variety of traditional foods that are delicious and nutritious in Terengganu of which are such as \"Laksang\", \"Tahi Itik\", \"Cek Mek Molek\", \"Akok\", \"Nganang\" (a variant of Akok), \"Bronok Sagu\", \"Sagong\", \"Bekang Nyior\", \"Belebak\", \"Nek Bak\", \"Tok Aji Serbang\", \"Kuih Tepung Gomok\", \"Tupak sutong\", \"Bekang\", \"Roti Paung\", \"Buoh Bung Samba\", \"Kuih Kapur Nyior\", \"Apang Dewe\", \"Apang Kuoh\" and many more.\n\nBesides the famous Ulek Mayang dance, there are also several unique traditional dances in the state, from Pre-Islamic dances like Saba to current folk dances like Rodat and Watimang Landok, mostly came after the arrival of Islam into the state.\n\n\nTraditional songs:\n\n\nFamous Malay people from Terengganu include:-\n"}
{"id": "3120131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3120131", "title": "Tilmàtli", "text": "Tilmàtli\n\nA tilmàtli (or \"tilma\") was a type of outer garment worn by men, documented from the late Postclassic and early Colonial eras among the Aztec and other peoples of central Mexico.\n\nThe garment was to be worn at the front like a long apron, or alternatively draped across the shoulders as a cloak. It was also frequently used as a carry-all.\n\nSeveral different types of the garment were in use, designed for the various classes in society. \nUpper classes wore a tilmàtli of cotton cloth knotted over the right shoulder, while the middle class used a tilmàtli made of ayate fibre, a coarse fabric derived from the threads of the maguey agave. It was knotted over the left shoulder. The lower classes knotted the garment behind the neck, where it could serve for carrying.\n\nA very famous tilmàtli was that worn by Juan Diego in 1531; according to tradition, an image of the Virgin Mary appeared on it in the presence of the bishop of Mexico City. The image is preserved in the Basilica of Our Lady of Guadalupe which attracts millions of pilgrims annually.\n"}
{"id": "28904701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28904701", "title": "Troaking", "text": "Troaking\n\nTroaking was the barter between the natives of Greenland and Scottish whalers. \n\nFrom the signing of the Treaty of Kiel in 1814 until the occupation of Denmark by Nazi Germany in 1940, Greenland was a protected and very isolated society. The Danish government, which governed Greenland as its colony, had been convinced that this society would face exploitation from the outside world or even extinction if the country was opened up, and thus it maintained a strict monopoly of Greenland's economy barring any trading or fishing within a certain distance of the Greenlandic coast. It did not, however, prohibit the sale of small articles not used in their trade, thus creating a loophole that enabled the practice of troaking, a barter between the natives and the Scottish whalers.\n"}
