{"id": "41075001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41075001", "title": "A Formula of Agreement", "text": "A Formula of Agreement\n\nA Formula of Agreement is an ecclesiastical agreement between the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.), Reformed Church in America, the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America and the United Church of Christ, establishing full communion with each other.\n\nBeginning in 1962, under the sponsorship of the Lutheran World Federation and the Reformed World Alliance, representatives from the Lutheran Church in America, the American Lutheran Church, the United Presbyterian Church in the U.S.A., the Presbyterian Church in the U.S., the Reformed Church in America and the United Church of Christ met to discuss their differences and agreements regarding the doctrine of the Lord’s Supper. In 1966, the book \"Marburg Revisited\", the title referring to the Marburg Colloquy of 1529, was published, claiming that “As a result of our studies and discussions we see no insuperable obstacles to pulpit and altar fellowship and, therefore, we recommend to our parent bodies that they encourage their constituent churches to enter into discussions looking forward to intercommunion and the fuller recognition of one another's ministries.\" While a second round of dialogues between 1972 and 1974, made little progress, a third round (1981-1983) produced joint statements on the Lord’s Supper, justification and ministry, published in \"A Call To Action\" in 1984. Two years later, representatives reached the conclusion that the Reformed and Lutheran denominations recognize each other as churches that preach the Gospel and administer the sacraments in accordance to Christ’s command, recommendations which were adopted by the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.) (which has come about due to a merger between the United Presbyterian Church in the U.S.A. and the Presbyterian Church in the U.S. in 1983) and the Reformed Church in America in 1986, and would be adopted by the United Church of Christ in 1989. For their parts, while the Association of Evangelical Lutheran Churches and the American Lutheran Church also adopted the resolutions in 1986, although the Lutheran Church in America was more reluctant to adopt the resolutions, recommending further dialogues.\n\nIn 1988, the Association of Evangelical Lutheran Churches, the American Lutheran Church and the Lutheran Church in America merged to form the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America and at their constituting meeting, it was voted to continue discussions with the PCUSA, RCA and United Church of Christ, forming the Lutheran-Reformed Committee for Theological Conversations in order to discuss doctrinal condemnations in the Lutheran “Formula of Concord” and issues relating to Christology, the Lord’s Supper and predestination. The committee released their report “A Common Calling: The Witness of our Reformation Churches in North America Today” in 1992, which stated that there were no “church dividing differences” and unaminmously recommended “That the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America, the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.), the Reformed Church in America (RCA), and the United Church of Christ (UCC) declare that they are in full communion with one another. In the specific terms of full communion as they are developed in our study, this recommendation also requires (1) that they recognize each other as churches in which the Gospel is rightly preached and the sacraments rightly administered according to the Word of God; (2) that they withdraw any historic condemnation by one side or the other as inappropriate for the faith and life of our churches today; (3) that they continue to recognize each others' Baptism and authorize and encourage the sharing of the Lord's Supper among their members; (4) that they recognize each others' various ministries and make provision for the orderly exchange of ordained ministers of Word and Sacrament; (5) that they establish appropriate channels of consultation and decision-making within the existing structures of the churches; (6) that they commit themselves to an ongoing process of theological dialogue in order to clarify further the common understanding of the faith and foster its common expression in evangelism, witness, and service; (7) that they pledge themselves to living together under the Gospel in such a way that the principle of mutual affirmation and admonition becomes the basis of a trusting relationship in which respect and love for the other will have a chance to grow.” \n\nThese recommendations led to the production of several documents intended for study in the churches: \"A Common Discovery: Learning about the Churches of the Reformation in North America Today\"; \"Lutheran-Reformed Theological Reflections on Full Communion\"; and \"Glimpses: What Full Communion May Mean to You\". Eventually, after some reluctance from those in the RCA about entering into full communion with the UCC due to issues regarding homosexuality, in 1997, A Formula of Agreement was adopted by the denominations.\n\nThe formulas affirm that the denominations are in full communion with each other. Full communion is defined as that the denominations\n\nNoting overall theological disagreements in the past in their confessional documents, the formulas state that “as a consequence of doctrinal agreement, it is stated that the ‘condemnations expressed in the confessional documents no longer apply to the contemporary doctrinal position of the assenting churches’ \" (\"Leuenberg Agreement\", IV.32.b).\n\nTheologically, the biggest issue has been disagreements between the Lutherans and the Reformed stem from disagreements over the sacrament of the Lord’s Supper, with the Lutherans arguing that Christ is physically present in the elements, whereas the Reformed have argued that Christ is spiritually present. The formulas note that “the theological conversations acknowledged that it has not been possible to reconcile the confessional formulations from the sixteenth century with a ‘common language. . .which could do justice to all the insights, convictions, and concerns of our ancestors in the faith’ (\"A Common Calling\", p. 49). However, the theological conversations recognized these enduring differences as acceptable diversities with regard to the Lord's Supper.” Citing the Leuenberg Agreement of 1973 made between several Lutheran and Reformed churches in Europe, it notes that:\nWhen we celebrate the Lord's Supper we proclaim the death of Christ through which God has reconciled the world with himself. We proclaim the presence of the risen Lord in our midst. Rejoicing that the Lord has come to us, we await his future coming in glory (Leuenberg Agreement, II.2.16)” \nIn regards to historical disagreements over double vs. single predestination, the formulas state that Reformed and the Lutherans can agree that salvation by grace alone through faith alone and that “Although Lutherans and Reformed have different emphases in the way they live out their belief in the sovereignty of God's love, they agree that ‘God's unconditional will to save must be preached against all cultural optimism or pessimism’ (A Common Calling, p. 54). It is noted that \"‘a common language that transcends the polemics of the past and witnesses to the common predestination faith of Lutheran and Reformed Churches has emerged already in theological writings and official or unofficial statements in our churches’ (A Common Calling, page 55)”.\n\nThe \"Formula of Agreement \"allows for “an orderly exchange of ministers of word and sacrament” between the PCUSA, ELCA, UCC or RCA. A minister wishing to transfer to another denomination must be educated in their own tradition before transferring to a church in another tradition and it must be done at the invitation of the receiving church and with the consent of the sending church Each denomination has established procedures for allowing ministers from other denominations to serve in their denomination, and the agreement guarantees that each denomination’s polity will be respected.\n\nThe fellowship between the denominations has remained controversial. The Lutheran Church–Missouri Synod has condemned the agreement, arguing that it jettisons the Lutheran confessional standards as laid out in the \"Book of Concord\", as the Lutheran and the Reformed views of the supper are irreconcilable.\n\nOne of the other larger issues has to do with diverging stances on human sexuality, as the Reformed Church in America officially does not affirm homosexuality. Even as the\" Formula of Agreement was \"being drafted, some in the Reformed Church in America objected to the agreement with the United Church of Christ because of their more progressive stance on homosexuality. The ELCA's subsequent decision in 2009 to allow homosexuals to serve as clergy prompted some conservatives in the RCA to call for the RCA's withdrawal from the Formula of Agreement. While the RCA would not sever the ties with the ELCA, the 2010 General Synod of the RCA expressed their concern by the move of the Lutherans, two denominations eventually agreed to further dialogue about the issue. In 2012, an RCA classis in Michigan unsuccessfully made an overture to the General Synod to have the RCA withdraw from the Formula of Agreement. 2013 saw the adoption of a paper by \"Formula \"Churches on Scripture and moral discernment, a paper in which the Disciples of Christ, the Moravian Church in North America and the Christian Reformed Church in North America took an advisory role in drafting.\n"}
{"id": "2520470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2520470", "title": "Advanced Train Control System", "text": "Advanced Train Control System\n\nAn Advanced Train Control System (ATCS) is a system of railroad equipment designed to ensure safety by monitoring locomotive and train locations, providing analysis and reporting, and automating track warrants and similar orders. ATCS specifications are published by the Association of American Railroads (AAR), and are designed to document the stated requirements of railroad operational and technical professionals concerning ATCS hardware and software.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25203671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25203671", "title": "Apparatus ad omnium gentium historiam", "text": "Apparatus ad omnium gentium historiam\n\nApparatus ad omnium gentium historiam (\"Apparatus to the history of all peoples\") (1597)\n\nThe author of this impressive bibliographical guide to the library of history, Antonio Possevino was a major figure in the diplomatic and intellectual life of the Counter Reformation. His Bibliotheca selecta 1593 announces a programmatic role for history as a guiding principle in his organization of his Jesuit encyclopedia \"in Historia, in Disciplinis\". Possevino's \"De Humana Historia\", Book 16, is a first elaboration of his re-edition of the culture of the ars historica as part of a papally sanctioned programme of Catholic learning. In 1597 with the printer G.B.Ciotti of Venice Possevino expanded this material into a book with this ambitious title in seven parts. Possevino's title is in direct contest with the Methodus ad facilem historiarum cognitionem 1560 of Jean Bodin. His source for this work was the Artis Historicae Penus of the Basel printer Pietro Perna. Obscuring the uses he was to make of this heterodox source the Jesuit issued a censure of the work in his \"Iudicium\" of 1592 and had had it placed on the Index librorum prohibitorum. Ciotti also printed the work translated in Italian by Possevino in 1598, \"Apparato all'historia di tutte le nationi et il modo di studiare la geografia\". In 1602 there was a further edition, \"De Apparatu ad omnium gentium historia\" published in Venice which served as the text for an updated edition of the \"Bibliotheca selecta\" (Venice, 1603).\n\nWith this work Possevino refashioned the ars historica culture and literature of the Late Renaissance as a cornerstone of the Jesuit classicism of the Baroque. His work laid the foundation for a tradition of historical and bibliographical scholarship exemplified in the Bollandist scholars, Nathaniel Bacon's Bibliotheca scriptorum Societatis Iesu, the histories of Daniello Bartoli and other landmarks of Jesuit historiography, such as the Monumenta Historica Societatis Iesu.\n"}
{"id": "14467346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14467346", "title": "Austrian Chronicle of the 95 Rulers", "text": "Austrian Chronicle of the 95 Rulers\n\nThe Austrian Chronicle of the 95 Rulers (\"Österreichische Chronik von den 95 Herrschaften \") of Leopold von Wien (formerly known as Leopold Steinreuter) of Vienna (lived ca. 1340–1400) is a 14th-century chronicle compiled by order of Albert III, Duke of Austria.\n\nThe chronicle is notable for recording legendary history from the time of Noah, constructing a debatable ancestry of the Dukes of Austria connecting them with biblical rulers of the Kingdom of Israel. It exerted considerable influence on 15th century Austrian historiography, a fact underscored by its preservation in more than 50 manuscripts (among these Cod. 2820 foll. 33ra–171vb in the Austrian National Library).\n\nIn the 16th and 17th centuries, the popularity of the chronicle waned rapidly due to its assumed fictional content, and it remained unedited until the early 20th century.\n\nSince its edition, it has played a certain role in pseudohistory, in particular in US American Biblical literalism, in publications such as those of Herman L. Hoeh and Herbert W. Armstrong\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15928428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15928428", "title": "Bibsys", "text": "Bibsys\n\nBIBSYS is an administrative agency set up and organized by the Ministry of Education and Research in Norway. They are a service provider, focusing on the exchange, storage and retrieval of data pertaining to research, teaching and learning – historically metadata related to library resources.\n\nBIBSYS are collaborating with all Norwegian universities and university colleges as well as research institutions\nand the National Library of Norway. Bibsys is formally organized as a unit at the Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU), located in Trondheim, Norway. The board of directors is appointed by Norwegian Ministry of Education and Research.\n\nBIBSYS offer researchers, students and others an easy access to library resources by providing the unified search service Oria.no and other library services.\nAs a DataCite member BIBSYS act as a national DataCite representative in Norway and thereby allow all of Norway's higher education and research institutions to use DOI on their research data.\n\nAll their products and services are developed in cooperation with their member institutions.\n\nBIBSYS began in 1972 as a collaborative project between the Royal Norwegian Society of Sciences and Letters Library (Det Kongelige Norske Videnskabers Selskabs Bibliotek), the Norwegian Institute of Technology Library and the Computer Centre at the Norwegian Institute of Technology. The purpose of the project was to automate internal library routines. Since 1972 Bibsys has evolved from a library system supplier for two libraries in Trondheim, to developing and operating a national library system for Norwegian research and special libraries. The target group has also expanded to include the customers of research and special libraries, by providing them easy access to library resources.\n\nBIBSYS is a public administrative agency answerable to the Ministry of Education and Research, and administratively organised as a unit at NTNU. In addition to BIBSYS Library System, the product portfolio consists of BISBYS Ask, BIBSYS Brage, BIBSYS Galleri and BIBSYS Tyr. All operation of applications and databases is performed centrally by BIBSYS. BIBSYS also offer a range of services, both in connection with their products and separate services independent of the products they supply.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "423161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=423161", "title": "Billboard Hot 100", "text": "Billboard Hot 100\n\nThe \"Billboard\" Hot 100 is the music industry standard record chart in the United States for songs, published weekly by \"Billboard\" magazine. Chart rankings are based on sales (physical and digital), radio play, and online streaming in the United States.\n\nThe weekly tracking period for sales was initially Monday to Sunday when Nielsen started tracking sales in 1991, but was changed to Friday to Thursday in July 2015. This tracking period also applies to compiling online streaming data. Radio airplay, which, unlike sales figures and streaming, is readily available on a real-time basis, is tracked on a Monday to Sunday cycle (previously Wednesday to Tuesday). A new chart is compiled and officially released to the public by \"Billboard\" on Tuesdays.\n\nThe first number one song of the Hot 100 was \"Poor Little Fool\" by Ricky Nelson, on August 4, 1958. As of the issue for the week ending on December 1, 2018, the Hot 100 has had 1,079 different number one hits. The chart's current number-one song is \"Thank U, Next\" by Ariana Grande.\nPrior to 1955, \"Billboard\" did not have a unified, all-encompassing popularity chart; instead, they measured songs by individual metrics. At the start of the rock era in 1955, three such charts existed:\n\n\nAlthough officially all three charts had equal \"weight\" in terms of their importance, Billboard Magazine considers the \"Best Sellers in Stores\" chart when referencing a song's performance prior to the creation of the Hot 100. On the week ending November 12, 1955, \"Billboard\" published The Top 100 for the first time. \"The Top 100\" combined all aspects of a single's performance (sales, airplay and jukebox activity), based on a point system that typically gave sales (purchases) more weight than radio airplay. The \"Best Sellers In Stores\", \"Most Played by Jockeys\" and \"Most Played in Jukeboxes\" charts continued to be published concurrently with the new \"Top 100\" chart.\n\nOn June 17, 1957, \"Billboard\" discontinued the \"Most Played in Jukeboxes\" chart, as the popularity of jukeboxes waned and radio stations incorporated more and more rock-oriented music into their playlists. The week ending July 28, 1958 was the final publication of the \"Most Played By Jockeys\" and \"Top 100\" charts, both of which had Perez Prado's instrumental version of \"Patricia\" ascending to the top.\n\nOn August 4, 1958, \"Billboard\" premiered one main all-genre singles chart: the \"Hot 100\". The Hot 100 quickly became the industry standard and \"Billboard\" discontinued the \"Best Sellers In Stores\" chart on October 13, 1958.\n\nThe \"Billboard\" Hot 100 is still the standard by which a song's popularity is measured in the United States. The Hot 100 is ranked by radio airplay audience impressions as measured by Nielsen BDS, sales data compiled by Nielsen Soundscan (both at retail and digitally) and streaming activity provided by online music sources.\n\nThere are several component charts that contribute to the overall calculation of the Hot 100. The most significant ones are:\n\n\nThe tracking week for sales and streaming begins on Friday and ends on Thursday, while the radio play tracking-week runs from Monday to Sunday. A new chart is compiled and officially released to the public by \"Billboard\" on Tuesday. Each chart is post-dated with the \"week-ending\" issue date four days after the charts are refreshed online (i.e., the following Saturday). For example:\n\n\nThe methods and policies by which this data is obtained and compiled have changed many times throughout the chart's history.\n\nAlthough the advent of a singles music chart spawned chart historians and chart-watchers and greatly affected pop culture and produced countless bits of trivia, the main purpose of the Hot 100 is to aid those within the music industry: to reflect the popularity of the \"product\" (the singles, the albums, etc.) and to track the trends of the buying public. \"Billboard\" has (many times) changed its methodology and policies to give the most precise and accurate reflection of what is popular. A very basic example of this would be the ratio given to sales and airplay. During the Hot 100's early history, singles were the leading way by which people bought music. At times, when singles sales were robust, more weight was given to a song's retail points than to its radio airplay.\n\nAs the decades passed, the recording industry concentrated more on album sales than singles sales. Musicians eventually expressed their creative output in the form of full-length albums rather than singles, and by the 1990s many record companies stopped releasing singles altogether (see \"Album Cuts\", below). Eventually, a song's airplay points were weighted more so than its sales. \"Billboard\" has adjusted the sales/airplay ratio many times to more accurately reflect the true popularity of songs.\n\n\"Billboard\" has also changed its Hot 100 policy regarding \"two-sided singles\" several times. The pre-Hot 100 chart \"Best Sellers in Stores\" listed popular A- and-B-sides together, with the side that was played most often (based on its other charts) listed first. One of the most notable of these, but far from the only one, was Elvis Presley's \"Don't Be Cruel\" / \"Hound Dog\". During the Presley single's chart run, top billing was switched back and forth between the two sides several times. But on the concurrent \"Most Played in Juke Boxes\", \"Most Played by Jockeys\" and the \"Top 100\", the two songs were listed separately, as was true of all songs. With the initiation of the Hot 100 in 1958, A- and-B-sides charted separately, as they had on the former Top 100.\n\nStarting with the Hot 100 chart for the week ending November 29, 1969, this rule was altered; if both sides received significant airplay, they were listed together. This started to become a moot point by 1972, as most major record labels solidified a trend they had started in the 1960s by putting the same song on both sides of the singles it serviced to radio.\n\nMore complex issues began to arise as the typical A-and-B-side format of singles gave way to 12 inch singles and maxi-singles, many of which contained more than one B-side. Further problems arose when, in several cases, a B-side would eventually overtake the A-side in popularity, thus prompting record labels to release a new single, featuring the former B-side as the A-side, along with a \"new\" B-side.\n\nThe inclusion of album cuts on the Hot 100 put the double-sided hit issues to rest permanently.\n\nAs many Hot 100 chart policies have been modified over the years, one rule always remained constant: songs were not eligible to enter the Hot 100 unless they were available to purchase as a single. However, on December 5, 1998, the Hot 100 changed from being a \"singles\" chart to a \"songs\" chart. During the 1990s, a growing trend in the music industry was to promote songs to radio without ever releasing them as singles. It was claimed by major record labels that singles were cannibalizing album sales, so they were slowly phased out. During this period, accusations began to fly of chart manipulation as labels would hold off on releasing a single until airplay was at its absolute peak, thus prompting a top ten or, in some cases, a number one debut. In many cases, a label would delete a single from its catalog after only one week, thus allowing the song to enter the Hot 100, make a high debut and then slowly decline in position as the one-time production of the retail single sold out.\n\nIt was during this period that several popular mainstream hits never charted on the Hot 100, or charted well after their airplay had declined. During the period that they were not released as singles, the songs were not eligible to chart. Many of these songs dominated the \"Hot 100 Airplay\" chart for extended periods of time:\n\n\nAs debate and conflicts occurred more and more often, \"Billboard\" finally answered the requests of music industry artists and insiders by including airplay-only singles (or \"album cuts\") in the Hot 100.\n\nExtended play (EP) releases were listed by \"Billboard\" on the Hot 100 and in pre-Hot 100 charts (Top 100) until the mid-to-late 1960s. With the growing popularity of albums, it was decided to move EPs (which typically contain four to six tracks) from the Hot 100 to the \"Billboard\" 200, where they are included to this day.\n\nSince February 12, 2005, the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 tracks paid digital downloads from such internet services as iTunes, Musicmatch, and Rhapsody. \"Billboard\" initially started tracking downloads in 2003 with the Hot Digital Tracks chart. However, these downloads did not count towards the Hot 100 and that chart (as opposed to Hot Digital Songs) counted each version of a song separately (the chart still exists today along with Hot Digital Songs). This was the first major overhaul of the Hot 100's chart formula since December 1998.\n\nThe change in methodology has shaken up the chart considerably, with some songs debuting on the chart strictly with robust online sales and others making drastic leaps. In recent years, several songs have been able to achieve 80-to-90 position jumps in a single week as their digital components were made available at online music stores. Since 2006, the all-time record for the biggest single-week upward movement was broken nine times.\n\nIn the issue dated August 11, 2007, Billboard began incorporating weekly data from streaming media and on-demand services into the Hot 100. The first two major companies to provide their statistics to Nielsen BDS on a weekly basis were AOL Music and Yahoo! Music. On March 24, 2012, Billboard premiered its On-Demand Songs chart, and its data was incorporated into the equation that compiles the Hot 100. This was expanded to a broader Streaming Songs chart in January 2013, which ranks web radio streams from services such as Spotify, as well as on-demand audio titles. In February 2013, U.S. views for a song on YouTube were added to the Hot 100 formula. \"Harlem Shake\" was the first song to reach number one after the changes were made. The Hot 100 formula starting 2013 generally incorporates sales (35–45%), airplay (30–40%) and streaming (20–30%), and the precise percentage can change from week to week.\n\nA growing trend in the early first decade of the 21st century was to issue a song as a \"remix\" that was so drastically different in structure and lyrical content from its original version that it was essentially a whole new song. Under normal circumstances, airplay points from a song's album version, \"radio\" mix and/or dance music remix, etc. were all combined and factored into the song's performance on the Hot 100, as the structure, lyrics and melody remained intact. Criticisms began when songs were being completely re-recorded to the point that they no longer resembled the original recording. The first such example of this scenario is Jennifer Lopez' \"I'm Real\". Originally entering the Hot 100 in its album version, a \"remix\" was issued in the midst of its chart run that featured rapper Ja Rule. This new version proved to be far more popular than\nthe album version and the track was propelled to number one.\n\nTo address this issue, Billboard now separates airplay points from a song's original version and its remix, if the remix is determined to be a \"new song\". Since administering this new chart rule, several songs have charted twice, normally credited as \"Part 1\" and \"Part 2\". The remix rule is still in place.\n\n\"Billboard\", in an effort to allow the chart to remain as current as possible and to give proper representation to new and developing artists and tracks, has (since 1991) removed titles that have reached certain criteria regarding its current rank and number of weeks on the chart. Recurrent criteria have been modified several times and currently (), a song is permanently moved to \"recurrent status\" if it has spent 20 weeks on the Hot 100 and fallen below position number 50. Additionally, descending songs are removed from the chart if ranking below number 25 after 52 weeks. Exceptions are made to re-releases and sudden resurgence in popularity of tracks that have taken a very long time to gain mainstream success. These rare cases are handled on a case-by-case basis and ultimately determined by \"Billboard\"'s chart managers and staff.\n\n\"Billboard\" altered its tracking-week for sales, streaming and radio airplay in order to conform to a new Global Release Date, which now falls on Fridays in all major-market territories (United States product was formerly released on Tuesdays prior to June 2015). This modified tracking schedule took effect in the issue dated July 25, 2015.\n\n\"Billboard\"'s \"chart year\" runs from the first week of December to the final week in November. This altered calendar allows for \"Billboard\" to calculate year-end charts and release them in time for its final print issue in the last week of December.\n\nPrior to Nielsen SoundScan, year-end singles charts were calculated by an inverse-point system based solely on a song's performance on the Hot 100 (for example, a song would be given one point for a week spent at position 100, two points for a week spent at position 99 and so forth, up to 100 points for each week spent at number one). Other factors including the total weeks a song spent on the chart and at its peak position were calculated into its year-end total.\n\nAfter \"Billboard\" began obtaining sales and airplay information from Nielsen SoundScan, the year-end charts are now calculated by a very straightforward cumulative total of yearlong sales, streaming, and airplay points. This gives a more accurate picture of any given year's most popular tracks, as the points accrued by one song during its week at number one in March might be less than those accrued by another song reaching number three in January. Songs at the peak of their popularity at the time of the November/December chart-year cutoff many times end up ranked on the following year's chart as well, as their cumulative points are split between the two chart-years, but often are ranked lower than they would have been had the peak occurred in a single year.\n\nThe Hot 100 served for many years as the data source for the weekly radio countdown show \"American Top 40\". This relationship ended on November 30, 1991, as \"American Top 40\" started using the airplay-only side of the Hot 100 (then called Top 40 Radio Monitor). The ongoing splintering of Top 40 radio in the early 1990s led stations to lean into specific formats, meaning that practically no station would play the wide array of genres that typically composed each weekly Hot 100 chart.\n\nA new chart, the Pop 100, was created by \"Billboard\" in February 2005 to answer criticism that the Hot 100 was biased in favor of rhythmic songs, as throughout most of its existence, the Hot 100 was seen predominantly as a pop chart. It was discontinued in June 2009 due to the charts becoming increasingly similar.\n\nThe Canadian Hot 100 was launched June 16, 2007. Like the Hot 100 chart, it uses sales and airplay tracking compiled by Nielsen SoundScan and BDS.\n\nThe Japan Hot 100 was launched in the issue dated May 31, 2008, using the same methodologies as the Hot 100 charts for the U.S. and Canada, using sales and airplay data from SoundScan Japan and radio tracking service Plantech.\n\n"}
{"id": "26827372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26827372", "title": "Brain morphometry", "text": "Brain morphometry\n\nBrain morphometry is a subfield of both morphometry and the brain sciences, concerned with the measurement of brain structures and changes thereof during development, aging, learning, disease and evolution. Since autopsy-like dissection is generally impossible on living brains, brain morphometry starts with noninvasive neuroimaging data, typically obtained from magnetic resonance imaging (or MRI for short). These data are born digital, which allows researchers to analyze the brain images further by using advanced mathematical and statistical methods such as shape quantification or multivariate analysis. This allows researchers to quantify anatomical features of the brain in terms of shape, mass, volume (e.g. of the hippocampus, or of the primary versus secondary visual cortex), and to derive more specific information, such as the encephalization quotient, grey matter density and white matter connectivity, gyrification, cortical thickness, or the amount of cerebrospinal fluid. These variables can then be mapped within the brain volume or on the brain surface, providing a convenient way to assess their pattern and extent over time, across individuals or even between different biological species. The field is rapidly evolving along with neuroimaging techniques — which deliver the underlying data — but also develops in part independently from them, as part of the emerging field of neuroinformatics, which is concerned with developing and adapting algorithms to analyze those data.\n\nThe term brain mapping is often used interchangeably with brain morphometry, although \"mapping\" in the narrower sense of projecting properties of the brain onto a template brain is, strictly speaking, only a subfield of brain morphometry. On the other hand, though much more rarely, neuromorphometry is also sometimes used as a synonym for brain morphometry (particularly in the earlier literature, e.g. ), though technically is only one of its subfields.\n\nThe morphology and function of a complex organ like the brain are the result of numerous biochemical and biophysical processes interacting in a highly complex manner across multiple scales in space and time (). Most of the genes known to control these processes during brain development, maturation and aging are highly conserved (), though some show polymorphisms (cf. ), and pronounced differences at the cognitive level abound even amongst closely related species, or between individuals within a species ().\n\nIn contrast, variations in macroscopic brain anatomy (i.e., at a level of detail still discernible by the naked human eye) are sufficiently conserved to allow for comparative analyses, yet diverse enough to reflect variations within and between individuals and species: As morphological analyses that compare brains at different onto-genetic or pathogenic stages can reveal important information about the progression of normal or abnormal development within a given species, cross-species comparative studies have a similar potential to reveal evolutionary trends and phylogenetic relationships.\n\nGiven that the imaging modalities commonly employed for brain morphometric investigations are essentially of a molecular or even sub-atomic nature, a number of factors may interfere with\nderived quantification of brain structures. These include all of the parameters mentioned in \"Applications\" but also the state of hydration, hormonal status, medication and substance abuse.\n\nThere are two major prerequisites for brain morphometry: First, the brain features of interest must be measurable, and second, statistical methods have to be in place to compare the measurements quantitatively. Shape feature comparisons form the basis of Linnaean taxonomy, and even in cases of convergent evolution or brain disorders, they still provide a wealth of information about the nature of the processes involved. Shape comparisons have long been constrained to simple and mainly volume- or slice-based measures but profited enormously from the digital revolution, as now all sorts of shapes in any number of dimensions can be handled numerically.\n\nIn addition, though the extraction of morphometric parameters like brain mass or liquor volume may be relatively straightforward in post mortem samples, most studies in living subjects will by necessity have to use an indirect approach: A spatial representation of the brain or its components is obtained by some appropriate neuroimaging technique, and the parameters of interest can then be analyzed on that basis. Such a structural representation of the brain is also a prerequisite for the interpretation of functional neuroimaging.\n\nThe design of a brain morphometric study depends on multiple factors that can be roughly categorized as follows: First, depending on whether ontogenetic, pathological or phylogenetic issues are targeted, the study can be designed as longitudinal (within the same brain, measured at different times), or cross-sectional (across brains). Second, brain image data can be acquired using different neuroimaging modalities. Third, brain properties can be analyzed at different scales (e.g. in the whole brain, regions of interest, cortical or subcortical structures). Fourth, the data can be subjected to different kinds of processing and analysis steps. Brain morphometry as a discipline is mainly concerned with the development of tools addressing this fourth point and integration with the previous ones.\n\nWith the exception of the usually slice-based histology of the brain, neuroimaging data are generally stored as matrices of voxels. The most popular morphometric method, thus, is known as Voxel-based morphometry (VBM; cf. ; ; ). Yet as an imaging voxel is not a biologically meaningful unit, other approaches have been developed that potentially bear a closer correspondence to biological structures: Deformation-based morphometry (DBM), surface-based morphometry (SBM) and fiber tracking based on diffusion-weighted imaging (DTI or DSI). All four are usually performed based on Magnetic Resonance (MR) imaging data, with the former three commonly using T1-weighted (e.g. Magnetization Prepared Rapid Gradient Echo, MP-RAGE) and sometimes T2-weighted pulse sequences, while DTI/DSI use diffusion-weighted ones. However, recent evaluation of morphometry algorithms/software demonstrates inconsistency among several of them. This renders a need for systematic and quantitative validation and evaluation of the field.\n\nMR images are generated by a complex interaction between static and dynamic electromagnetic fields and the tissue of interest, namely the brain that is encapsulated in the head of the subject. Hence, the raw images contain noise from various sources—namely head movements (a scan suitable for morphometry typically takes on the order of 10 min) that can hardly be corrected or modeled, and bias fields (neither of the electromagnetic fields involved is homogeneous across the whole head nor brain) which can be modeled.\n\nIn the following, the image is segmented into non-brain and brain tissue, with the latter usually being sub-segmented into at least gray matter (GM), white matter (WM) and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Since\nimage voxels near the class boundaries do not generally contain just one kind of tissue, partial volume effects ensue that can be corrected for.\n\nFor comparisons across different scans (within or across subjects), differences in brain size and shape are eliminated by spatially normalizing (i.e. registering) the individual images to the stereotactic space of a template brain.\nRegistration can be performed using low-resolution (i.e. rigid-body or affine transformations) or high-resolution (i.e. highly non-linear) methods, and templates can be generated from the study's pool of brains, from a brain atlas or a derived template generator.\n\nBoth the registered images and the deformation fields generated upon registration can be used for morphometric analyses, thereby providing the basis for Voxel-Based Morphometry (VBM) and Deformation-Based Morphometry (DBM). Images segmented into tissue classes can also be used to convert segmentation boundaries into parametric surfaces, the analysis of which is the focus of Surface-Based Morphometry (SBM).\n\nAfter the individual images are segmented, they are registered to the template. Each voxel then contains a measure of the probability, according to which it belongs to a specific segmentation class. For gray matter, this quantity is usually referred to as gray matter density (GMD) or gray matter concentration (GMC), or gray matter probability (GMP).\n\nIn order to correct for the volume changes due to the registration, the gray matter volume (GMV) in the original brain can be calculated by multiplying the GMD with the Jacobian determinants of the deformations used to register the brain to the template. Class-specific volumes for WM and CSF are defined analogously.\n\nThe local differences in the density or volume of the different segmentation classes can then be statistically analyzed across scans and interpreted in anatomical terms (e.g. as gray matter atrophy). Since VBM is available for many of the major neuroimaging software packages (e.g. FSL and SPM), it provides an efficient tool to test or generate specific hypotheses about brain changes over time. It is noteworthy, that unlike DBM, considerable criticism and words of caution regarding the correct interpretation of VBM results has been leveled by the medical image computing community \n\nIn DBM, highly non-linear registration algorithms are used, and the statistical analyses are not performed on the registered voxels but on the deformation fields used to register them (which requires multivariate approaches) or derived scalar properties thereof, which allows for univariate approaches. One common variant—sometimes referred to as Tensor-based morphometry (TBM)—is based on the Jacobian determinant of the deformation matrix.\n\nOf course, multiple solutions exist for such non-linear warping procedures, and to balance appropriately between the potentially opposing requirements for global and local shape fit, ever more sophisticated registration algorithms are being developed. Most of these, however, are computationally expensive if applied with a high-resolution grid. The biggest advantage of DBM with respect to VBM is its ability to detect subtle changes in longitudinal studies. However, due to the vast variety of registration algorithms, no widely accepted standard for DBM exists, which also prevented its incorporation into major neuroimaging software packages.\n\nPattern based morphometry (PBM) is a method of brain morphometry first put forth in PBM. It builds upon DBM and VBM. PBM is based on the application of sparse dictionary learning to morphometry. As opposed to typical voxel based approaches which depend on univariate statistical tests at specific voxel locations, PBM extracts multivariate patterns directly from the entire image. The advantage of this is that the inferences are not made locally as in VBM or DBM but globally. This allows the method to detect if combinations of voxels are better suited to separate the groups being studied rather than single voxels. Also the method is more robust to variations in the underlying registration algorithms as compared to typical DBM analysis\n\nOnce the brain is segmented, the boundary between different classes of tissue can be reconstructed as a surface on which morphometric analysis can proceed (e.g. towards gyrification), or onto which results of such analyses can be projected.\n\nNerve fiber-tracking techniques are the latest offspring of this suite of MR-based morphological approaches. They determine the tract of nerve fibers within the brain by means of diffusion tensor imaging or diffusion-spectrum imaging (e.g. and ).\n\nDiffeomorphometry is the focus on comparison of shapes and forms with a metric structure based on diffeomorphisms, and is central to the field of computational anatomy. Diffeomorphic registration, introduced in the 90's, is now an important player that uses computational procedures for constructing correspondences between coordinate systems based on sparse features and dense images, such as ANTS, DARTEL, DEMONS, LDDMM, or StationaryLDDMM. Voxel-based morphometry (VBM) is an important method built on many of these principles. Methods based on diffeomorphic flows are used in For example, deformations could be diffeomorphisms of the ambient space, resulting in the LDDMM (Large Deformation Diffeomorphic Metric Mapping) framework for shape comparison. One such deformation is the right invariant metric of computational anatomy which generalizes the metric of non-compressible Eulerian flows to include the Sobolev norm, ensuring smoothness of the flows. Metrics have also been defined that are associated to Hamiltonian controls of diffeomorphic flows.\n\nThe qualitatively largest changes within an individual generally occur during early development and more subtle ones during aging and learning, while pathological changes can vary highly in their extent and interindividual differences increase both during and across lifetimes. The above-described morphometric methods provide the means to analyze such changes quantitatively, and MR imaging has been applied to ever more brain populations relevant to these time scales, both within humans and across species.\nCurrently, however, most applications of MR-based brain morphometry have a clinical focus, i.e. they help to diagnose and monitor neuropsychiatric disorders, in particular neurodegenerative diseases (like Alzheimer) or psychotic disorders (like schizophrenia).\n\nMR imaging is rarely performed during pregnancy and the neonatal period, in order to avoid stress for mother and child. In the cases of birth complications and other clinical events, however, such data are being acquired. For instance, analyzed gyrification in premature newborns at birth and found it to be predictive of a functional score at term-equivalent age, and Serag et al. built a 4D atlas of the developing neonatal brain which has led to the construction of brain growth curves from 28–44 weeks’ postmenstrual age. Beyond preterms, there have been a number of large-scale longitudinal MR-morphometric studies (often combined with cross-sectional approaches and other neuroimaging modalities) of normal brain development in humans.\nUsing voxel-based and a number of complementary approaches, these studies revealed (or non-invasively confirmed, from the perspective of previous histological studies which cannot be longitudinal) that brain maturation involves differential growth of gray and white matter, that the time course of the maturation is not linear and that it differs markedly across brain regions. In order to interpret these findings, cellular processes have to be taken into consideration, especially those governing the pruning of axons, dendrites and synapses until an adult pattern of whole-brain connectivity is achieved (which can best be monitored using diffusion-weighted techniques).\n\nWhile white matter increases throughout early development and adolescence, and gray matter decreases in that period generally do not involve neuronal cell bodies, the situation is different beyond the age of about 50 years when atrophy affects gray and possibly also white matter. The most convincing explanation for this is that individual neurons die, leading to the loss of both their cell bodies (i.e. gray matter) and their myelinated axons (i.e. white matter). The gray matter changes can be observed via both gray matter density and gyrification.\nThat the white matter loss is not nearly as clear as that for gray matter indicates that changes also occur in non-neural tissue, e.g. the vasculature or microglia.\n\nPerhaps the most profound impact to date of brain morphometry on our understanding of the relationships between brain structure and function has been provided by a series of VBM studies targeted at proficiency in various performances: Licensed taxicab drivers in London were found to exhibit bilaterally increased gray matter volume in the posterior part of the hippocampus, both relative to controls from the general population and to London bus drivers matched for driving experience and stress levels. Similarly, gray matter changes were also found to correlate with professional experience in musicians, mathematicians and meditators, and with second language proficiency.\n\nWhat is more, bilateral gray matter changes in the posterior and lateral parietal cortex of medical students memorizing for an intermediate exam could be detected over a period of just three months.\n\nThese studies of professional training inspired questions about the limits of MR-based morphometry in terms of time periods over which structural brain changes can be detected. Important determinants of these limits are the speed and spatial extent of the changes themselves. Of course, some events like accidents, a stroke, a tumor metastasis or a surgical intervention can profoundly change brain structure during very short periods, and these changes can be visualized with MR and other neuroimaging techniques. Given the time constraints under such conditions, brain morphometry is rarely involved in diagnostics but rather used for progress monitoring over periods of weeks and months and longer.\n\nOne study found that juggling novices showed a bilateral gray matter expansion in the medial temporal visual area (also known as V5) over a three-month period during which they had learned to sustain a three-ball cascade for at least a minute. No changes were observed in a control group that did not engage in juggling. The extent of these changes in the jugglers reduced during a subsequent three-month period in which they did not practice juggling. To further resolve the time course of these changes, the experiment was repeated with another young cohort scanned in shorter intervals, and the by then typical changes in V5 could already be found after just seven days of juggling practice. The observed changes were larger in the initial learning phase than during continued training.\n\nWhereas the former two studies involved students in their early twenties, the experiments were recently repeated with an elderly cohort, revealing the same kind of structural changes, although attenuated by lower juggling performance of this group.\n\nUsing a completely different kind of intervention—application of Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation in daily sessions over five days—changes were observed in and near the TMS target areas as well as in the basal ganglia of volunteers in their mid-twenties, compared to a control group that had received placebo. It is possible, though, that these changes simply reflect vascularization effects.\n\nTaken together, these morphometric studies strongly support the notion that brain plasticity—changes of brain structure—remains possible throughout life and may well be an adaptation to changes in brain function which has also been shown to change with experience. The title of this section was meant to emphasize this, namely that plasticity and learning provide two perspectives—functional and structural—at the same phenomenon, a brain that changes over time.\n\nBrain diseases are the field to which brain morphometry is most often applied, and the volume of the literature on this is vast.\nBrain changes also accumulate over periods longer than an individual life but even though twin studies have established that human brain structure is highly heritable, brain morphometric studies with such a broadened scope are rare.\nHowever, in the context of disorders with a known or suspected hereditary component, a number of studies have compared the brain morphometry of patients with both that of non-affected controls and that of subjects at high risk for developing the disorder. The latter group usually includes family members.\n\nEven larger time gaps can be bridged by comparing human populations with a sufficiently long history of genetic separation, such as Central Europeans and Japanese. One surface-based study compared the brain shape between these two groups and found a difference in their gender-dependent brain asymmetries. Neuroimaging studies of this kind, combined with functional ones and behavioural data, provide promising and so far largely unexplored avenues to understand similarities and differences between different groups of people.\n\nLike morphological analyses that compare brains at different ontogenetic or pathogenetic stages can reveal important information about normal or abnormal development within a given species, cross-species comparative studies have a similar potential to reveal evolutionary trends and phylogenetic relationships. Indeed, shape comparisons (though historically with an emphasis on qualitative criteria) formed the basis of biological taxonomy before the era of genetics.\nThree principal sources exist for comparative evolutionary investigations: Fossils, fresh-preserved post-mortem or in vivo studies.\n\nThe fossil record is dominated by structures that were already biomineralized during the lifetime of the respective organism (in the case of vertebrates, mainly teeth and bones).\nBrains, like other soft tissues, rarely fossilize, but occasionally they do. The probably oldest vertebrate brain known today belonged to a ratfish that lived around 300 million years ago (). While the technique most widely used to image fossils is computed tomography (CT), this particular specimen was imaged by synchrotron tomography, and recent MR imaging studies with fossils suggest that the method may be used to image at least a subset of fossilized brains.\n\nMR images have also been obtained from the brain of a 3200-year-old Egyptian mummy. The perspectives are slim, however, that any three-dimensional imaging dataset of a fossil, semi-fossil or mummified brain will ever be of much use to morphometric analyses of the kind described here, since the processes of mummification and fossilization heavily alter the structure of soft tissues in a way specific to the individual specimen and subregions therein.\n\nPostmortem samples of living or recently extinct species, on the other hand, generally allow to obtain MR image qualities sufficient for morphometric analyses, though preservation artifacts would have to be taken into account. Previous MR imaging studies include specimens\npreserved in formalin,\nby freezing \nor in alcohol .\n\nThe third line of comparative evidence would be cross-species in vivo MR imaging studies like the one by Rilling & Insel (1998), who investigated brains from eleven primate species by VBM in order to shed new light on primate brain evolution.\nOther studies have combined morphometric with behavioural measures, and brain evolution does not only concern primates: Gyrification occurs across mammalian brains if they reach a size of several centimeters—with cetaceans dominating the upper end of the spectrum—and generally increases slowly with overall brain size, following a power law.\n"}
{"id": "21239109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21239109", "title": "Brut y Brenhinedd", "text": "Brut y Brenhinedd\n\nBrut y Brenhinedd (\"Chronicle of the Kings\") is a collection of variant Middle Welsh versions of Geoffrey of Monmouth's Latin \"Historia Regum Britanniae\". About 60 versions survive, with the earliest dating to the mid-13th century. Adaptations of Geoffrey's \"Historia\" were extremely popular throughout Western Europe during the Middle Ages, but the \"Brut\" proved especially influential in medieval Wales, where it was largely regarded as an accurate account of the early history of the Celtic Britons.\n\nGeoffrey's \"Historia Regum Britanniae\" (completed by ) purports to narrate the history of the Kings of Britain from its eponymous founder Brutus of Troy to Cadwaladr, the last in the line. Geoffrey professed to have based his history on \"a certain very ancient book\" written in \"britannicus sermo\" (the \"British tongue\", i.e. Common Brittonic, Welsh, Cornish or Breton) which he had received from Walter of Oxford. It became one of the most popular works in the medieval West, but its impact was particularly profound and enduring in Wales, where the \"Historia\" was accepted as a largely authentic and authoritative account. The influence is most clearly evidenced by the existence of several translations into Welsh from the 13th century onwards, usually known as \"Brut y Brenhinedd\". The manuscript history of these texts is a rich and long one attesting to the production of several translations and new redactions, most of which were copied many times over.\n\nThe Welsh renderings are not straightforward translations in the modern sense, but by contemporary standards, they are generally close to their Latin source text, with only some commentary or additional material from bardic traditional lore (\"cyfarwydd\") appended to the text. Importantly, several manuscripts include a version of the tale known as \"Lludd and Llefelys\" inserted in the segment about Lludd Llaw Eraint; the presence or absence of this tale has been used to classify the early versions of the \"Brut\". One notable area in which Welsh translators have corrected or adapted Geoffrey based on native traditions is that of personal names and sobriquets. Geoffrey's \"Hely\", for instance, was substituted for Beli Mawr, an ancestor figure who also appears in \"Branwen ferch Llŷr\" and elsewhere in Middle Welsh literature.\n\nThere are about sixty attestations of the Welsh \"Brut\" in the manuscripts. Brynley F. Roberts, citing J.J. Parry and his own examination of the texts, places all the existing versions into six variant classes: 1) Dingestow MS., 2) Peniarth 44, 3) Llanstephan 1, 4) Peniarth 21, 5) Cotton Cleopatra B. v, and 6) the \"Brut Tysilio\".\n\n\nOf these three texts, it is Llanstephan MS 1 and \"Brut Dingestow\" which then came to provide the textual basis for many of the copies attested in other MSS from the 13th century onwards, such as Mostyn MS 117 and NLW Peniarth MS 16.\n\n\n\nThe version known as the \"Brut Tysilio\", attributed to the 7th-century Welsh saint Tysilio, became more widely known when its text was published in \"The Myvyrian Archaiology of Wales\", a once-influential collection of Welsh literary material whose credibility has suffered due the involvement of the antiquarian forger Iolo Morganwg, in 1801-1807. The editors did not place much faith in the attribution to Tysilio, using that title merely to distinguish it from another Welsh \"Brut\" entitled \"Brut Gruffudd ap Arthur\" (the chronicle of Geoffrey son of Arthur, an alternative name for Geoffrey of Monmouth). An English translation of the \"Brut Tysilio\" by Peter Roberts was published in 1811, and San Marte made a German translation of Roberts' English translation in 1854, making it available to non-specialists.\n\nAt the very end of the \"Brut Tysilio\" there appears a colophon ascribed to Walter, Archdeacon of Oxford, saying \"I […] translated this book from the Welsh into Latin, and in my old age have again translated it from the Latin into Welsh.\" On this basis, some took the \"Brut Tysilio\" to be, at one or more remove, the \"very ancient book\" that Geoffrey claimed to have translated from the \"British tongue\". This claim was taken up by the archaeologist Flinders Petrie, who argued in a paper presented to the Royal Society in 1917 that the \"Brut\" and the \"Historia Regum Britanniae\" were both derived from a hypothetical 10th-century version in Breton and ultimately from material originating in Roman times, and called for further study.\n\nHowever, modern scholarship has established that all surviving Welsh variants are derivative of Geoffrey rather than the other way around. Roberts has shown the \"Brut Tysilio\" to be \"an amalgam of versions\", the earlier part deriving from Peniarth 44, and the later part abridged from Cotton Cleopatra. It survives in manuscripts dating from , and Roberts argues that a \"textual study of the version […] shows that this is a late compilation, not different in essentials from other chronicles which were being composed in the fifteenth century\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54304357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54304357", "title": "Cambon letter", "text": "Cambon letter\n\nThe Cambon letter is a letter written on 4 June 1917 by Jules Cambon, head of the political section of the French foreign ministry, to Zionist diplomat Nahum Sokolow. The letter expressed French Government sympathy for Jewish colonization in Palestine. It is regarded as a politically essential precursor of the Balfour Declaration.\n\nOn 11 March 1916, in a telegram to the Russian and French ambassadors, Edward Grey put forward a proposal that the Allies together issue a public declaration supporting Jewish aspirations in Palestine. Verete, in his account of the developments leading up to this proposal, explains, \"here is the root and source of the pro-Zionist policy of British governments until the Balfour Declaration\" \n\nHistorian Martin Kramer argues that securing the assent of Britain's French and American Allies, and of the Vatican, which controlled many Christian Holy Sites in the Land of Israel, was a necessary precondition for the Balfour Declaration.\n\nBoth British diplomat Mark Sykes and French diplomat François Georges-Picot were in Petrograd at the time advising their ambassadors in the matter of securing Russian assent to the secret Sykes-Picot Agreement and its terms in regard to a future disposition of Palestine. There was little enthusiasm for the proposal on the part of either the French or the Russians. Brecher gives an account of French motivations and attitude to the question during the war years.\n\nThere were few developments until the change of government in Britain although the need for accommodation with the French, intent on sticking by the terms of Sykes-Picot, remained. In a memorandum dated 21 April 1917, Lord Cecil, who was deputizing for Lord Balfour as Foreign Secretary during the Balfour Mission to America, wrote that:\nI quite recognise the very great difficult of carrying out the Zionist policy involving as it does a strong preference for a British protectorate over Palestine. That seems to me to make it the more desirable to get France to join us in an expression of sympathy for Jewish Nationalist aspirations.A trip to France and Italy had been organized for Mark Sykes, who had been appointed earlier in the year to lead negotiations with the Zionists, and Zionist diplomat Nahum Sokolow, during April and May 1917. They secured the assent of Pope Benedict XV on 4 May 2017. Having met various French officials in April, they visited Italy and Sokolow secured the verbal support of Pope Benedict XV on 4 May 1917. On his return to France, Sokolow was able to obtain the French commitment in written form, the Cambon letter, although it remained unpublished at the time.\n\nBoth Kramer and Kaufman gives more information as well as an analysis of the background and motivations for the Cambon letter and the post-Balfour Declaration endorsement by Pichon.\n\nThe letter states that:\n\nYou were good enough to present the project to which you are devoting your efforts, which has for its object the development of Jewish colonization in Palestine.You consider that,circumstances permitting,and the independence of the Holy Places being safeguarded on the other hand,it would be a deed of justice and of reparation to assist,by the protection of the Allied Powers,in the renaissance of the Jewish nationahty in that Land from which the people of Israel were exiled so many centuries ago.<br>\nThe French Government, which entered this present war to defend a people wrongfully attacked, and which continues the struggle to assure the victory of right over might, can but feel sympathy for your cause,the triumph of which is bound up with that of the Allies.<br>\nI am happy to give you herewith such assurance.\n"}
{"id": "26940175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26940175", "title": "Comparison of DEX software", "text": "Comparison of DEX software\n\nThis article provides a comparison of DEX software of different types that offer access to the Explanatory Dictionary of the Romanian Language DEX (Dicţionarul explicativ al limbii române). \n\nOnline sync, periodically connect to the DEX online server and update the definitions\n\nBlind support, user friendly interface for the visually impaired\n\nWild cards, can search by regular expressions and/or wildcards like \"echi*\" for echilibru, echinocţiu, etc.\n\nSuggestions, offers related results when the search word is not matched exactly\n\nW/O diacritics, can search words using diacritics or no diacritics\n\nFull text search, can search not only by indexed words but also by contents of definitions\n\nInflection search, can search by inflection, e.g. \"meargă\" instead of \"merge\"\n\nWord context, clicking on a word in the results pane will automatically start the search on that word\n\nHistory, remembers last searches\n"}
{"id": "30005995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30005995", "title": "Comparison of HTML5 and Flash", "text": "Comparison of HTML5 and Flash\n\nHTML5 can generally be used as an alternative to Adobe Flash. Both include features for playing audio and video within web pages, It can also be used to play some basic HTML5 browser games and integrated vector graphics are possible with both.\n\n\"HTML5\" in this article sometimes refers not only to the HTML5 specification, which does not itself define ways to do animation and interactivity within web pages, but to HTML5 and related standards like JavaScript or CSS 3. Animation via JavaScript is also possible with HTML 4.\n\nThe table below compares the features of the Flash platform, the HTML5 specification and the features implemented in modern web browsers.\n\n\nWeb browsers cannot render Flash media themselves. Instead, Flash is primarily rendered via the proprietary, but freely available, Adobe Flash Player. Until 2008, there was no official specification by which to create an alternative player. Alternative players have been developed before 2008, but they support Flash to a lesser degree than the official one.\n\nThe latest version of the Adobe Flash Player runs on Microsoft Windows, Apple macOS, RIM, QNX and Google TV.\n\nEarlier versions run on Android 2.2-4.0.x (Flash has been released for 4.0, but Adobe announced that they will discontinue support for Android 4.1 and higher.) (Flash 11.2), GNU/Linux (Flash 11.2, except for Pepper Flash which is maintained and distributed by Google, not Adobe), PlayStation 3 (Flash 9), PSP (Flash 6). Adobe Flash Lite runs on Wii, Symbian, Maemo Linux, Windows Mobile, and Chumby.\n\nApple does not allow Flash to run on iOS, the operating system which runs on iPad, iPhone, iPod Touch and Apple TV. Apple stated that it has no plans to do so.\n\nIn February 2012, Adobe announced it would discontinue development of Flash Player on Linux for all browsers, except Google Chrome, by dropping support for NPAPI and using only Chrome's PPAPI. In August 2016, Adobe announced that, beginning with version 24, it would resume offering of Flash Player for Linux for other browsers.\n\nAll web browsers support HTML and other Web standards to various degree. Adobe released a tool that converts Flash to HTML5, and in June 2011, Google released an experimental tool that does the same.\n\n, versions of browsers such as Chrome, Firefox, Internet Explorer, Opera, and Safari implement HTML5 to a considerable degree. However, some portions of the HTML5 specification were still being implemented by browser makers.\n\nAs of January 2015, YouTube defaults to HTML5 players to better support more devices.\n\nUntil 2008, the use of Flash was covered by restrictive licenses. The conditions prohibited use of the specification to develop any software (including players) which could render or read (and thus convert) SWF files, and required the output SWF files to be compatible with Adobe's players.\n\nIn 2008, restrictions on use of the SWF and FLV/F4V specifications were dropped, and some specifications were released. However, the \"SWF File Format Specification Version 10\" allegedly did not contain all the needed information, did not contain much information that hasn’t been previously known by the community, and itself could not be copied, printed out in more than one copy, distributed, resold or translated, without written approval of Adobe Systems Incorporated.\n\nFlash is not an open standard. It is controlled by one firm, Adobe Systems. In contrast, HTML5 is controlled mostly by a committee, the Web Hypertext Application Technology Working Group (WHATWG).\n\nVarious people have praised Flash over the years for rendering consistently across platforms. Constructing sites in Flash is a way to prevent \"code forking,\" whereby different versions of a site are created for different browsers.\n\nSpeaking at 'Adobe Max' in 2011, Itai Asseo likewise said that, unlike HTML5, Flash offers a way to develop applications that work across platforms. HTML5, he said, is currently implemented differently (if at all) by different browsers. Although the Flash browser plugin is not supported on the Apple iPhone OS, Flash applications can be exported to Adobe AIR, which runs on that operating system as a native application. In the same talk, Mr. Asseo lamented the return to another browser war (as seen in the late 1990s). If Flash falls out of favor, he said, web developers will either have to develop many different versions of their web sites and native applications to take into account different HTML5 implementations, deny access to browsers that do not support their version of HTML, or dramatically reduce the functionality of their sites in order to deliver content to the least-advanced browser.\n\nConstructing Flash websites using Adobe tools is relatively easier than with integrated development environments for CSS, HTML, and JavaScript; however, many of Adobe's tools are expensive and proprietary software.\n\nTools for HTML5 are just starting to come to market; in the meantime, Adobe has released a first version of a Flash-to-HTML5 conversion tool for existing content and are working on creating new tooling for HTML5 as well, like Adobe Edge.\n\nBecause HTML5 is an open format, tools like those for Flash can be built for it, too. Applications like Hype and Adobe Edge are already on the market.\n\nFlash has a better performance than HTML, as a comparison of Flash with HTML in 2010 listed Flash as being faster than the other technologies, when used for non-video animations, although they are catching up.\n\nSome users, more so those on macOS and Linux, have complained about the relatively high CPU usage of Flash for video playback. This was partially because the Flash plugin did not use the GPU to render video. Adobe has responded to some of those criticisms in the 10.1 and 10.2 releases of the Flash plugin by offloading H.264 video decoding to dedicated hardware and by introducing a new video API called Stage Video. The use of the newer ActionScript 3.0 inside Flash movies instead of the older ActionScript 2.0 improves code execution speed by a factor of around 10. The software routines written by developers can also affect the performance of applications built in Flash, reasons that would affect HTML5 animations as well.\n\nFlash includes DRM support. The main HTML 5 standard does not include any digital restrictions management functionality directly, instead the Encrypted Media Extensions (EME) specification describes a communication channel between web browsers and digital rights management (DRM) agent software. The EME is not a complete DRM implementation, but just a specification for how the DRM implementations might operate.\n\nHistorically, before EME introduction implementations could support DRM, for example in codecs. The proposal to add DRM features to HTML5 itself has been criticized by those who consider openness and vendor-neutrality (both server- and client-side) one of the most important properties of HTML, because DRM is incompatible with free software, and in the proposed form potentially not more vendor-neutral than proprietary plug-ins like Flash.\n\nBoth Flash and HTML text can be read by screen readers. However, special care must be taken to ensure Flash movies are read correctly. For example, if a Flash movie is set to repeat indefinitely, this can cause a screen reader to repeat the content endlessly. Selecting the \"Make object accessible\" check box in Adobe Flash Professional will create a text-only version of the object for screen readers. It will also hide any motion from the screen reader. Since Flash content is usually placed on a single webpage, it appears as a single entry in search engine result pages, unless techniques like deep linking are used with libraries like SWFAddress to provide multiple links within Flash websites and web applications. User interface widgets in Flash objects don't always behave like their host native counterparts. Keyboard, mouse and other accessibility shortcuts may not work unless the webpage developer explicitly adds support for it.\n\nBoth Flash content and HTML content can be indexed by Google, Yahoo!, and Bing, although bi-directional text (e.g. Arabic, Hebrew) is not supported by Google. Yahoo! added support for indexing Flash sites in 2008, although Google had been able to index them for several years before that. Bing added support for Flash sites in 2010.\n\nApple has been promoting HTML5 as an alternative to Flash for video and other content on the iOS, citing performance reasons for not allowing Adobe Flash Player to be installed on iOS devices, including the iPhone, iPod touch and iPad. Flash applications can be packaged as native iOS applications via the Adobe Integrated Runtime and the iOS Packager.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3706857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3706857", "title": "Comparison of widget engines", "text": "Comparison of widget engines\n\nThis is a comparison of widget engines. This article is not about widget toolkits that are used in computer programming to build graphical user interfaces.\n\nWhich programming languages the engines support. Most engines rely upon interpreted languages.\n\nAs widgets are largely combinations of HTML or XHTML, CSS, and Javascript in most cases, standard AJAX tools, such as Eclipse ATF, can be used for development. Specialized tools may give access to additional capabilities supplied by frameworks such as Dojo or Openrico.\n"}
{"id": "48221379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48221379", "title": "Consolación del Sur Municipal Museum", "text": "Consolación del Sur Municipal Museum\n\nConsolación del Sur Municipal Museum is a museum located in the 62nd street in Consolación del Sur, Cuba. It was established as a museum on 14 December 1979.\n\nThe museum holds 10 sections (numismatics, sports, history, arts, documents among others). Currently, it is closed.\n\n"}
{"id": "22649619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22649619", "title": "Crónicas anónimas de Sahagún", "text": "Crónicas anónimas de Sahagún\n\nThe Crónicas anónimas de Sahagún are two short chronicles composed by the monks of Sahagún two centuries apart. They survive only in sixteenth-century Spanish translations. \n\nThe first is a catalogue of the excesses of the middle and upper class of Sahagún between the years 1109 and 1117. Perhaps it was designed to be presented at the Council of Burgos in the latter year. If an early-twelfth-century provenance is correct then it must have originally been written in medieval Latin. It is a useful source of detail for the early reign of Urraca of León and Castile, since the monastery at Sahagún was the most important in her realms. The second chronicle, written in the fourteenth century, may have been either originally Latin or originally Spanish. It is generally of little use to the historian.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26749907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26749907", "title": "Current Medical Diagnosis and Treatment", "text": "Current Medical Diagnosis and Treatment\n\nCurrent Medical Diagnosis and Treatment is a standard medical reference work published by McGraw-Hill. It is updated annually and the 2017 version was its 56th edition. The editors of the 55th edition were Stephen McPhee, Maxine Papadakis and Michael Rabow. It was originally published as a general work, but a number of specialist versions have since been released, such as pediatrics, cardiology, and surgery as part of the Lange \"Current\" series.\n"}
{"id": "3389268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3389268", "title": "DVD Profiler", "text": "DVD Profiler\n\nDVD Profiler is a program that allows users to catalogue their DVD collections. The program was created by Ken Cole at InterVocative Software. Although it can be used for free (with free registration), it can be upgraded to a premium registration for a one-time fee. Registration allows users to download higher-resolution cover scans, to vote on all changes to the DVD database, and to use the newest beta versions of the software.\n\nDVD Profiler permits the adding of DVDs (since V3.0, HD DVDs and Blu-ray Discs, since V4.0 Ultra HD Blu-rays) by entering the UPC/EAN, inserting the disc itself into the computer's DVD drive or searching by title. Users can upload their collection to the internet to provide other users the possibility to view their DVD profiles.\n\nAlso available is DVD Profiler Mobile, which allows the user to access your DVD Profiler database via a Pocket PC. You can also make changes to your database directly in DVD Profiler Mobile and synchronize back to your main DVD Profiler database.\n\nSince December 2010 there's also an app for iPhone and iPad available which works as a standalone product or in combination with the Desktop version.\n\nAs of May 17, 2013, a version for Android has been released.\n\nUp through version 2.4 the program was released and maintained by InterVocative Software. Version 3.0 is released and maintained by Invelos Software, a company set up by developer Ken Cole to focus entirely on DVD Profiler and related products & services.\n\nA major drawback is the lack of support for Unicode, which makes it impossible to enter Asian DVD titles correctly. Another drawback is that after years of fully functional ad-supported versions, from version 3.0 onwards, users cannot use most features with collections over 50 discs without buying the software.\n\nOn April 5, 2007, Jesse Slicer, Kenneth Meade, and InterVocative Software, LLC (represented by Tim Haverty) filed an injunction (Case # 07CY-CV03512) in Missouri's 7th Judicial District (Clay County) against Ken Cole and Invelos, LLC (represented by Joseph Gall). Judge Anthony Gabbert presided.\n\nOn May 9, 2007 the issue was resolved to the satisfaction of both companies, and InterVocative Software became a wholly owned subsidiary of Invelos Software, Inc.\n\n"}
{"id": "31131515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31131515", "title": "Der Fischer Weltalmanach", "text": "Der Fischer Weltalmanach\n\nDer Fischer Weltalmanach is an almanac, a popular publication of the information issued in Frankfurt on Main, Germany, created at the end of each year since 1959 by a team of Fischer Taschenbuch Verlag. In September 2018, the 60th and last edition will be published. Due to reduced demand, no further editions are produced .\n\nThe idea that inspired the creators of the almanac was to find a new form of rapid transmission of information. Inspired by the U.S. \"The World Almanac and Book of Facts\", Gottfried Bermann Fischer, publisher and Gustav Fochler-Hauke, editor developed a product that became a bestseller in the German market, reaching in the first edition print run of about 100 thousand. copies, although it is discussed in only 89 then-existing sovereign states. With the increased volume of the successive editions of publication - 385 pages (1960), 480 (1980), 704 (2000), and its price - 3.30 DM (1960), DM 9.80 (1980), DM 24.90 (2000), 29,95 € (2009).\n\nOver 50% of the content devoted to characterization of the 195 countries of the world, including giving facts and figures, and other basic information (language, GDP, the currency structure of the country, society, state, government, political parties and the economy), and chronicle the events of the previous year. Facts about Germany, Austria and Switzerland are richer. Each federal country (\"land\") or canton is a more accurate by adding a chronicle of events and many statistics.\n\nThe publication contains a chronicle of events of the past year, discussed the major themes of the world, including economic and financial crisis, sea piracy, armed conflicts. Added information about the European Union and several international organizations. Discusses the most important problems in economics, environment, culture and sport. It also includes biographies of famous personalities and information about the deceased.\n\nEdition 2010, anniversary, contains more than 250,000, updated data, more than 900 maps, illustrations and tables. It discusses fifty almanac edition, important events in the development of the world, and significant figures in the period 1960 to 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31895210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31895210", "title": "Djadjaemankh", "text": "Djadjaemankh\n\nDjadjaemankh is the name of a fictitious ancient Egyptian magician appearing in the third chapter of a story told in the legendary \"Westcar Papyrus.\" He is said to have worked wonders during the reign of king (pharaoh) Sneferu (4th dynasty).\n\nDjadjaemankh appears only in the third story of the \"Westcar Papyrus\" - there is no archeological or historical evidence that he existed. Nevertheless he is object of great interest for Egyptologists, since his magical trick is connected to later cultural perceptions of the personality of king Sneferu. In the story Djadjaemankh is described as a high lector priest.\n\nAccording to the \"Westcar Papyrus,\" king Sneferu is in a melancholic mood. He is bored and so he wanders through every room of his palace, to seek some distraction. When unsuccessful, he orders to his servants: \"Go and bring the high lector priest and scribe of the books, Djadjaemankh, to me.\" The summoned is brought to Sneferu at once. Sneferu says to Djadjaemankh: \"I have passed every chamber of my palace to find some distraction, but I couldn't find any.\" Djadjaemankh replies: \"May thy majesty go to the lake of the palace, after a bark has been prepared with all the beauties from inside the palace. The heart of highness will be cheering up seeing them rowing to and fro. You will see the beautiful bird's marshes of the lake and their banks then and thine heart will become happy when recognizing their beautiful realms.\" Sneferu says: \"Truly, I shall arrange such a rowing trip. Let me be brought 20 oars made of ebony, decorated with gold, their handles made of \"seqab\"-wood, covered with dja'am. Let me also be brought 20 virgin maidens with perfect bodies and well-developed bosoms, compassed with braided hairs. Let them be draped in nets after they have disrobed their clothes.\" All things Sneferu wished are done. And so they row to and fro and Sneferu's heart is gladdened when he sees the girls row. Then it happens that the stroke maiden goes through her braids with her fingers and a hair pendant in the shape of a fish, made of malachite, falls into the water of the lake. The stroke maiden becomes silent in shock and grief and stops specifying the clock. Her complete line of rowers becomes silent, too, and they all stop rowing. Sneferu asks: \"Shouldn't you row...?\" The rowers answer: \"Our stroke became silent, without rowing.\" Sneferu consults the stroke maiden: \"That you don't row any further, has which reason?\" The woman answers: \"This fish-pendant made of fresh beaten malachite is the reason. It fell into the water.\" Sneferu brings the stroke maiden back to her seat and offers: \"Let me give you a duplicate of your pendant as a substitute.\" The woman says: \"I prefer to receive my property back than having a duplicate.” The king orders now: \"Go and bring the high lector priest Djadjaemankh to me.\" And Djadjaemankh is brought to Sneferu at once. The ruler says: “Djadjaemankh, my brother, I have done all things that you have advised and the heart of thy majesty was refreshed when seeing the maidens rowing. Then a fish pendant made of fresh beaten malachite, belonging to the stroke maiden, fell into the water. She became silent, without rowing. So it came that she distracted the whole rowing line. I asked her: 'Why don't you row?' and she said: 'That fish-pendant made of fresh beaten malachite is the reason. It fell into the water.' And I replied to her: 'Row! See, I'm someone who replaces it.' But the maiden said: 'I prefer my own property before some substitute.'\" Djadjaemankh utters a secret spell which makes the waters of the lake move, so that one half side of the lake now rests on the other half. The water which had been 12 cubits in height becomes now 24 cubits at one side, whilst the other side is dry now. Djadjaemankh enters the lake's ground and picks up the lost fish-pendant, which was lying on a pot-shard. He brings the amulet back to the stroke maiden and then removes the waters magically back to their original positions. Sneferu spends the rest of the day celebrating together with his royal palace and Djadjaemankh is rewarded generously by the king.\n\nEgyptologists see an important connection between Djadjaemankh's magic performance and the perception of king Sneferu's personality. Adolf Erman and Kurt Heinrich Sethe once considered the stories of the \"Westcar Papyrus\" as mere folklore. They saw literary figures like Djadjaemankh and the other heroes of the \"Westcar Papyrus\" as a pure fiction, created only for entertainment, since there is no archeological evidence of them.\n\nModern Egyptologists such as Verena Lepper and Miriam Lichtheim deny this view and argue that Sethe and Erman may have just failed to see the profundity of such novels. They hold that at one side Sneferu is depicted as generous and kind, while on the other side he shows an accostable character when he addresses a subaltern, namely Djadjaemankh, with “my brother”. Both go even further and describe Sneferu as being bawdy when he tells Djadjaemankh how the female rowers shall be dressed and look like. Lepper and Liechtheim evaluate the story of Djadjaemankh as some sort of satire, in which a pharaoh is depicted as a fatuous fool, who is easily pleased with superficial entertainment and unable to solve his problem with a little rowing girl on his own. Furthermore the author of Djadjaemankh's tale places the main actor intellectually higher than the pharaoh and criticizes the pharaoh with this. Additionally the story of Djadjaemankh shows an interesting writing element: a speech in a speech. Sneferu repeats what he said to the stroke maiden, when he explains his problem to Djadjaemankh. The \"Westcar Papyrus\" is the first preserved Egyptian document in which a speech in a speech occurs. Liechtheim and Lepper also point to multiple similar but somewhat later ancient Egyptian writings in which magicians perform very similar magic tricks or make prophecies to a king. Their stories are obviously inspired by the tale of Dedi. Descriptive examples are the papyri \"pAthen\" and \"The prophecy of Neferti\". In the Neferti-novel king Sneferu is also depicted as accostable and here, too, the king addresses a subaltern with \"my brother\". And again the stories of \"pAthen\" and the Neferti-novel both report about a bored pharaoh seeking for distraction. Furthermore the novels show how popular the theme of prophesying was since the Old Kingdom - just like in the story of the \"Westcar Papyrus.\" Since \"pAthen\" and \"The prophecy of Neferti\" show the same manner of speaking and equal picking up of quaint phrases as the \"Westcar Papyrus\" does, Lepper and Liechtheim hold that Djadjaemankh must have been known to Egyptian authors for a surprisingly long time.\n\n"}
{"id": "4849234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4849234", "title": "Encyclopedia of the Brethren of Purity", "text": "Encyclopedia of the Brethren of Purity\n\nThe Encyclopedia of the Brethren of Purity () also variously known as the Epistles of the Brethren of Sincerity, Epistles of the Brethren of Purity and Epistles of the Brethren of Purity and Loyal Friends was a large encyclopedia in 52 treatises (\"rasā'il\") written by the mysterious Brethren of Purity of Basra, Iraq sometime in the second half of the 10th century CE (or possibly later, in the 11th century). It had a great influence on later intellectual leading lights of the Muslim world, such as Ibn Arabi, and was transmitted as far abroad within the Muslim world as Al-Andalus. The \"Encyclopedia\" contributed to the popularization and legitimization of Platonism in the Islamic world.\n\nThe identity and period of the authors of the \"Encyclopedia\" have not been conclusively established, though the work has been mostly linked with the Isma'ilis. Some suggest that besides Ismailism, the Brethren of Purity also contains elements of Sufism, Mu'tazilism, Nusairism, Rosicrucianism, etc.\n\nThe subject of the work is vast and ranges from mathematics, music, astronomy, and natural sciences, to ethics, politics, religion, and magic—all compiled for one, basic purpose, that learning is training for the soul and a preparation for its eventual life once freed from the body.\n\nAuthorship of the \"Encyclopedia\" is usually ascribed to the mysterious \"Brethren of Purity\" a group of Ismaili scholars placed in Basra, Iraq sometime around 10th century CE . While it is generally accepted that it was the group who authored at least the 52 rasa'il, the authorship of the \"Summary\" (\"al-Risalat al-Jami'a\") is uncertain; it has been ascribed to the later Majriti but this has been disproved by Yves Marquet (see the \"Risalat al-Jami'a\" section).\nSince style of the text is plain, and there are numerous ambiguities, due to language and vocabulary, often of Persian origin, it has been suggested that the authors of the encyclopedia were of Persian descent.\n\nSome philosophers and historians such as Tawhidi, Ibn al-Qifti, Shahrazuri disclosed the names of those allegedly involved in the development of the work: Abu Sulayma Bisti, Muqaddasi, 'Ali ibn Harun, Zanjani, Muahmmad ibn Ahmad Narhruji, 'Awfi. All these people are according to Henry Corbin, Ismailis\n\nFurther perplexities abound; the use of pronouns for the authorial \"sender\" of the \"rasa'il\" is not consistent, with the writer occasionally slipping from third person to first-person (for example, in Epistle 44, \"The Doctrine of the Sincere Brethren\"). This has led some to suggest that the \"rasa'il\" were not in fact written co-operatively by a group or consolidated notes from lectures and discussions, but were actually the work of a single person. Of course, if one accepts the longer time spans proposed for the composition of the \"Encyclopedia\", or the simpler possibility that each \"risala\" was written by a separate person, sole authorship would be impossible.\n\nThe subject matter of the \"Rasa'il\" is vast and ranges from mathematics, music, logic, astronomy, the physical and natural sciences, as well as exploring the nature of the soul and investigating associated matters in ethics, revelation, and spirituality.\n\nIts philosophical outlook was Neoplatonic and it tried to integrate Greek philosophy (and especially the dialectical reasoning and logic of Aristotelianism) with various astrological, Hermetic, Gnostic and Islamic schools of thought. Scholars have seen Ismaili and Sufi influences in the religious content, and Mu'tazilite acceptance of reasoning in the work. Others, however, hold the Brethren to be \"free-thinkers\" who transcended sectarian divisions and were not bound by the doctrines of any specific creed.\n\nTheir unabashed eclecticism is fairly unusual in this period of Arabic thought, characterised by fierce theological disputes; they refused to condemn rival schools of thought or religions, instead insisting that they be examined fairly and open-mindedly for what truth they may contain:\nIn total, they cover most of the areas an educated person was expected to understand in that era. The epistles (or \"rasa'il\") generally increase in abstractness, finally dealing with the Brethren's somewhat pantheistic philosophy, in which each soul is an emanation, a fragment of a universal soul with which it will reunite at death; in turn, the universal soul will reunite with Allah on Doomsday. The epistles are intended to transmit right knowledge, leading to harmony with the universe and happiness.\n\nOrganizationally, it is divided into 52 epistles. The 52 rasa'il are subdivided into four sections, sometimes called books (indeed, some complete editions of the \"Encyclopedia\" are in four volumes); in order, they are: 14 on the Mathematical Sciences, 17 on the Natural Sciences, 10 on the Psychological and Rational Sciences, 11 on Theological Sciences.\n\nThe division into four sections is no accident; the number four held great importance in Neoplatonic numerology, being the first square number and for being even. Reputedly, Pythagoras held that a man's life was divided into four sections, much like a year was divided into four seasons. The Brethren divided mathematics itself into four sections: arithmetic was Pythagoras and Nicomachus' domain; Ptolemy ruled over astronomy with his \"Almagest\"; geometry was associated with Euclid, naturally; and the fourth and last division was that of music. The fours did not cease there- the Brethren observed that four was crucial to a decimal system, as formula_1; numbers themselves were broken down into four orders of magnitude: the ones, tens, hundreds, and thousands; there were four winds from the four directions (north, south, east, west); medicine concerned itself with the four humours, and natural philosophers with the four elements of Empedocles.\n\nAnother possibility, suggested by Netton is that the veneration for four stems instead from the Brethren's great interest in the \"Corpus Hermeticum\" of Hermes Trismegistus (identified with the god Hermes, to whom the number four was sacred); that hermetic tradition's magical lore was the main subject of the 51st rasa'il.\n\nNetton mentions that there are suggestions that the 52nd risalah (on talismans and magic) is a later addition to the \"Encyclopedia\", because of intertextual evidence: a number of the rasa'il claim that the total of rasa'il is 51. However, the 52nd risalah itself claims to be number 51 in one area, and number 52 in another, leading to the possibility that the Brethren's attraction for the number 51 (or 17 times 3; there were 17 rasa'il on natural sciences) is responsible for the confusion. Seyyed Hossein Nasr suggests that the origin of the preference for 17 stemmed from the alchemist Jābir ibn Hayyān's numerological symbolism.\n\nBesides the fifty-odd epistles, there exists what claims to be overarching summary of the work, which is not counted in the 52, called \"The Summary\" (\"<nowiki>al-Risalat al-Jami'a</nowiki>\") which exists in two versions. It has been claimed to have been the work of Majriti (d. \"circa\" 1008), although Netton states Majriti could not have composed it, and that Yves Marquet concludes from a philological analysis of the vocabulary and style in his \"La Philosophie des Ihwan al-Safa\" (1975) that it had to have been composed at the same time as the main corpus.\n\nLike conventional Arabic Islamic works, the Epistles have no lack of time-worn honorifics and quotations from the Qur'an, but the \"Encyclopedia\" is also famous for some of the didactic fables it sprinkled throughout the text; a particular one, the \"Island of Animals\" or the \"Debate of Animals\" (embedded within the 22nd rasa'il, titled \"On How The Animals and their Kinds are Formed\"), is one of the most popular animal fables in Islam. The fable concerns how 70 men, nearly shipwrecked, discover an island where animals ruled, and began to settle on it. They oppressed and killed the animals, who unused to such harsh treatment, complained to the King (or Shah) of Djinns. The King arranged a series of debates between the humans and various representatives of the animals, such as the nightingale, the bee, and the jackal. The animals nearly defeat the humans, but an Arabian ends the series by pointing out that there was one way in which humans were superior to animals and so worthy of making animals their servants: they were the only ones Allah had offered the chance of eternal life to. The King was convinced by this argument, and granted his judgement to them, but strongly cautioned them that the same Qur'an that supported them also promised them hellfire should they mistreat their animals.\n\nMore metaphysical were the four ranks (or \"spiritual principles\"), which apparently were an elaboration of Plotinus' triad of Thought, Soul, and the One, known to the Brethren through \"The Theology of Aristotle\" (a version of Plotinus' \"Enneads\" in Arabic, modified with changes and paraphrases, and attributed to Aristotle); first, the Creator (\"al-Bārī\") emanated down to Universal Intellect (\"al-'Aql al-Kullī\"), then to Universal Soul (\"al-Nafs\"), and through Prime Matter (\"al-Hayūlā al-Ūlā\"), which emanated still further down through (and creating) the mundane hierarchy. The mundane hierarchy consisted of Nature (\"al-Tabī'a\"), the Absolute Body (\"al-Jism al-Mutlaq\"), the Sphere (\"al-Falak\"), the Four Elements (\"al-Arkān\"), and the Beings of this world (\"al-Muwalladāt\") in their three varieties of animals, minerals, and vegetables, for a total hierarchy of nine members. Furthermore, each member increased in subdivisions proportional to how far down in the hierarchy it was, for instance, Sphere, being number seven has the seven planets as its members.\n\nAnother area in which the Brethren differed was in their conceptions of nature, in which they rejected the emanation of Forms that characterized Platonic philosophy for a quasi-Aristotelian system of substances:\n\nThe 14th edition (EB-2:187a; 14th Ed., 1930) of the Encyclopædia Britannica described the mingling of Neoplatonism and Aristotelianism this way:\nThe text in the \"Encyclopedia of the Brethren of Purity\" describes biological diversity in a manner similar to the modern day theory of evolution. The contexts of such passages are interpreted differently by scholars.\n\nIn this document some modern day scholars note that “chain of being described by the Ikhwan possess a temporal aspect which has led certain scholars to view that the authors of the Rasai’l believed in the modern theory of evolution”. According to the Rasa’il “But individuals are in perpetual flow; they are neither definite nor preserved. The reason for the conservation of forms, genus and species in matter is fixity of their celestial cause because their efficient cause is the Universal Soul of the spheres instead of the change and continuous flux of individuals which is due to the variability of their cause”. This statement is supporting the concept that species and individuals are not static, and that when they change it is due to a new purpose given. In the Ikhwan doctrine there are similarities between that and the theory of evolution. Both believe that “the time of existence of terrestrial plants precedes that of animals, minerals precede plants, and organism adapt to their environment”, but asserts that everything exists for a purpose.\n\nMuhammad Hamidullah describes the ideas on evolution found in the \"Encyclopedia of the Brethren of Purity\" (\"The Epistles of Ikhwan al-Safa\") as follows:\n\nEnglish translations of the \"Encyclopedia of the Brethren of Purity\" were available from 1812, hence this work may have had an influence on Charles Darwin and his inception of Darwinism. However Hamidullah's \"Darwin was inspired by the Epistles of the Ihkwan al-Safa\" theory sounds unlikely as Charles Darwin comes from an evolutionist family with his well-known physician grandfather, Erasmus Darwin, author of the poem The Origin of Sociey on evolution, was one of the leading Enlightenment evolutionists.\n\nThe 48th epistle of the \"Encyclopedia of the Brethren of Purity\" features a fictional Arabic narrative. It is an anecdote of a \"prince who strays from his palace during his wedding feast and, drunk, spends the night in a cemetery, confusing a corpse with his bride. The story is used as a gnostic parable of the soul's pre-existence and return from its terrestrial sojourn\".\n\nComplete editions of the encyclopedia have been printed at least three times:\n\nThe \"Encyclopedia\" has been widely translated, appearing not merely in its original Arabic, but in German, English, Persian, Turkish, and Hindustani. Although portions of the \"Encyclopedia\" were translated into English as early as 1812, with the Rev. T. Thomason's prose English introduction to Shaikh Ahmad b. Muhammed Shurwan's Arabic edition of the \"Debate of Animals\" published in Calcutta, a complete translation of the \"Encyclopedia\" into English does not exist as of 2006, although Friedrich Dieterici (Professor of Arabic in Berlin) translated the first 40 of the epistles into German; presumably, the remainder have since been translated. The \"Island of Animals\" have been translated several times in differing completion; the fifth risalah, on music, has been translated into English as have the 43rd through the 47th epistles.\n\nThe first complete Arabic critical edition and fully annotated English translation of the \"Rasa’il Ikhwan al-Safa’\" with commentaries is being published by a team of experts as editors, translators and scholars. This constitutes a philosophy bi-lingual book series that is published by Oxford University Press in association with the Institute of Ismaili Studies in London; and this large-scale project is chaired by the series General Editor Nader El-Bizri. This book series was initiated by an introductory volume of studies edited by Nader El-Bizri, which was published by Oxford University Press in 2008, and followed in 2009 by the voluminous Arabic critical edition and annotated English translation with commentaries of \"The Case of the Animals Versus Man Before the King of the Jinn\" (Epistle 22). - Additional volumes have since been published: ‘On Logic’ (Eps. 10-14; 2010), ‘On Music’ (Ep. 5; 2010), ‘On Magic’ (Ep. 52a; 2011); 'On Arithmetic and Geometry' (Eps. 1-2; 2012); 'On the Natural Sciences' (Eps. 15-21; 2013), 'On Geography' (Ep. 4; 2014), 'On Astronomia' (Ep. 3; 2015). \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "719095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=719095", "title": "FIFA World Rankings", "text": "FIFA World Rankings\n\nThe FIFA World Ranking is a ranking system for men's national teams in association football, currently led by Belgium. The teams of the member nations of FIFA, football's world governing body, are ranked based on their game results with the most successful teams being ranked highest. The rankings were introduced in December 1992, and eight teams (Argentina, Belgium, Brazil, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands and Spain) have held the top position, of which Brazil have spent the longest ranked first.\n\nA points system is used, with points being awarded based on the results of all FIFA-recognised full international matches.\n\nThe ranking system has been revamped on several occasions, generally responding to criticism that the preceding calculation method did not effectively reflect the relative strengths of the national teams. The current version of the ranking system was first used on 16 August 2018, adapted from the Elo rating system used in chess and Go. The rankings remain slightly different from the unofficial World Football Elo Ratings, which makes different presumptions and adaptations to the FIFA rankings.\n\nIn December 1992, FIFA first published a listing in rank order of its member associations to provide a basis for comparison of the relative strengths of these teams. From the following August, this list was more frequently updated, to be published most months. Significant changes were implemented in January 1999 and again in July 2006, as a reaction to criticisms of the system. Historical records of the rankings, such as listed at FIFA.com, reflect the method of calculation in use at the time, as the current method has not been applied retrospectively to rankings prior to July 2006. Membership of FIFA has expanded from 167 to 211 since the rankings began; all 211 members are currently included in the rankings.\n\nThe ranking formula used from August 1993 until December 1998 was very simplistic and quickly became noticed for its lack of supporting factors. When the rankings were initially introduced, a team received one point for a draw or three for a victory in FIFA-recognised matches – much the same as a traditional league scoring system. This was a quite simplistic approach, however, and FIFA quickly realised that there were many factors affecting international matches.\n\nIn January 1999, FIFA introduced a revised system of ranking calculation, incorporating many changes in response to criticism of inappropriate rankings. For the ranking all matches, their scores and importance were all recorded, and were used in the calculation procedure. Only matches for the senior men's national team were included. Separate ranking systems were used for other representative national sides such as women's and junior teams, for example the FIFA Women's World Rankings. The women's rankings were, and still are, based on a procedure which is a simplified version of the Football Elo Ratings.\n\nThe major changes were as follows:\n\nTwo new awards were introduced as part of the system:\n\nThe changes made the ranking system more complex, but helped improve its accuracy by making it more comprehensive.\n\nFIFA announced that the ranking system would be updated following the 2006 World Cup. The evaluation period was cut from eight to four years, and a simpler method of calculation was used to determine rankings. Goals scored and home or away advantage were no longer taken into account, and other aspects of the calculations, including the importance attributed to different types of match, were revised. The first set of revised rankings and the calculation methodology were announced on 12 July 2006.\n\nThis change was rooted at least in part in widespread criticism of the previous ranking system. Many football enthusiasts felt it was inaccurate, especially when compared to other ranking systems and that it was not sufficiently responsive to changes in the performance of individual teams.\n\nIn September 2017, FIFA announced they were reviewing the ranking system and will decide after the end of the 2018 FIFA World Cup qualification if any changes are to be made to improve the ranking. FIFA announced on 10 June 2018 that the ranking system would be updated following the 2018 World Cup. The calculation method to be adopted will be closely modeled after the Elo rating system and rankings of its member associations will be updated on a game-by-game basis. The weighting designated for each confederation for ranking purposes will be abolished. However, the new methodology does not account for home or away games and margin of the victory, as Elo rankings.\n\nFIFA had intended to introduce the new ranking system in July 2018, but with no matches scheduled between the July and August ranking dates, delayed until August 2018. There was speculation from football journalists such as ESPN's Dale Johnson that this was because projections of the new rankings had seen relatively little change in positions, with Germany – who had been eliminated in the first round of the World Cup – remaining as the top ranked team. FIFA had originally planned to use existing world ranking points from June 2018 as the start value, but when the August rankings appeared, the starting points had been changed to an equal distribution of points between 1600 (Germany, as the previously top ranked team) and 868 (Anguilla, Bahamas, Eritrea, Somalia, Tonga and Turks and Caicos Islands, which had 0 points in June), according to the formula:\n\nformula_1,\n\nwhere R is the rank in June 2018. When two or more teams had equal ranks, the following team received the next immediate rank possible, e.g. if two teams had R=11, the following team had R=12, not 13. Then the rating changes according to the games played after previous release were calculated. This produced a more dramatically altered ranking table, with Germany falling to 15th and 2018 FIFA World Cup champions France moving to the top of the ranking.\n\nWhen the system was introduced, Germany debuted as the top-ranked team following their extended period of dominance in which they had reached the three previous FIFA World Cup finals, winning one of them. Brazil took the lead in the run up to the 1994 FIFA World Cup after winning eight and losing only one of nine qualification matches, while on the way scoring twenty goals and conceding just four. Italy then led for a short time on the back of their own equally successful World Cup qualifying campaign, after which the top place was re-claimed by Germany.\n\nBrazil's success in their lengthy qualifying campaign returned them to the lead for a brief period. Germany led again during the 1994 World Cup, until Brazil's victory in that competition gave them a large lead that would stand up for nearly seven years, until they were surpassed by a strong France team that captured both the 1998 FIFA World Cup and the 2000 European Football Championship.\n\nSuccess at the 2002 FIFA World Cup restored Brazil to the top position, where they remained until February 2007, when Italy returned to the top for the first time since 1993 following their 2006 FIFA World Cup win in Germany. Just one month later, Argentina replaced them, reaching the top for the first time, but Italy regained its place in April. After winning the Copa América 2007 in July, Brazil returned to the top, but were replaced by Italy in September and then Argentina in October.\n\nIn July 2008, Spain took over the lead for the first time, having won UEFA Euro 2008. Brazil began a sixth stint at the top of the rankings in July 2009 after winning the 2009 Confederations Cup, and Spain regained the title in November 2009 after winning every match in qualification for the 2010 FIFA World Cup.\n\nIn April 2010, Brazil returned to the top of the table. After winning the 2010 World Cup, Spain regained the top position and held it until August 2011, when the Netherlands reached the top spot for the first time, only to relinquish it the following month.\n\nIn July 2014, Germany took over the lead once again, having won the 2014 FIFA World Cup. In July 2015, Argentina reached the top spot for the first time since 2008, after reaching both the 2014 FIFA World Cup Final, as well as the 2015 Copa America Final. In November 2015, Belgium became the leader in the FIFA rankings for the first time, after topping their Euro 2016 qualifying group. Belgium led the rankings until April 2016, when Argentina returned to the top. On 6 April 2017, Brazil returned to the No. 1 spot for the first time since just prior to the 2010 World Cup, but Germany regained the top spot in July after winning the Confederations Cup. In August 2018, France became the leader in the FIFA rankings again after nearly 16 years, having won the 2018 FIFA World Cup, and this is also the first time FIFA adopted the Elo rating system to the ranking system. One month later, for the first time two teams were tied at the top spot as Belgium returned to the number one spot with the same ranking as France, to become joint leaders.\n\nThe rankings are used by FIFA to rank the progression and current ability of the national football teams of its member nations, and claims that they create \"a reliable measure for comparing national A-teams\". They are used as part of the calculation, or the entire grounds to seed competitions. In the 2010 FIFA World Cup qualification tournament, the rankings were used to seed the groups in the competitions involving CONCACAF members (using the May rankings), CAF (with the July set of data), and UEFA, using the specially postponed November 2007 ranking positions.\n\nThe October 2009 ranking was used to determine the seeds for the 2010 FIFA World Cup final draw.\nThe March 2011 ranking was used to seed the draw for the 2012 CAF Men's Pre-Olympic Tournament second qualifying round.\n\nThe rankings are also used to determine the winners of the two annual awards national teams receive on the basis of their performance in the rankings.\n\nThe (English) Football Association uses the average of the last 24 months of rankings as one of the criteria for player work permits.\n\nSince their introduction in 1992, the FIFA World Rankings have been the subject of much debate, particularly regarding the calculation procedure and the resulting disparity between generally perceived quality and world ranking of some teams. The perceived flaws in the FIFA system have led to the creation of a number of alternative rankings from football statisticians, including the World Football Elo Ratings and the rec.sport.soccer Statistics Foundation rankings.\n\nThe initial system was very simple, with no weighting for the quality of opponent or importance of a match. This saw Norway reach second in October 1993 and July–August 1995, a ranking that was criticized at the time. The rankings were adapted in 1999 to include weightings based on the importance of the match and the strength of the opponent. A win over a weak opponent resulted in fewer points being awarded than a win over a much stronger one. Further adaptations in 2006 were made to reduce the number of years' results considered from 8 to 4, with greater reliance on matches from within the previous 12 months.\n\nStill, criticisms of the rankings remained, with particular anomalies being noted including: the United States rise to fourth in 2006, to the surprise of even their own players; Israel's climb to 15th in November 2008, which surprised the Israeli press; and Belgium's rank of world number 1 in November 2015, given that Belgium had only played in one tournament final stage in the past 13 years.\n\nFurther criticisms of the 2006-2018 formula included the inability of hosts of major tournaments to retain a high place in the rankings, as the team participated in only lower-value friendly matches due to their automatic qualification for the tournament. For example, 2014 FIFA World Cup hosts Brazil fell to a record low ranking of 22nd in the world prior to that tournament, at which they then finished fourth. 2018 FIFA World Cup hosts Russia had the lowest ranking (70th) at the tournament, where they reached quarterfinals.\n\nIn the 2010s, teams realized the ranking system could be 'gamed', specifically by avoiding playing non-competitive matches, particularly against weaker opponents. This was because the low weighting of friendlies meant that even victories could reduce a team's \"average\" score: in other words, a team could win a match and lose points. Prior to the seeding of the 2018 World Cup preliminary draw, Romania even appointed a ranking consultant, playing only one friendly in the year before the draw. Similar accusations had been made against Switzerland, who were a seeded team at the 2014 FIFA World Cup having played only three friendly matches in the previous year, and Poland before the 2018 FIFA World Cup.\n\nThe use of regional strength multiplier in the ranking formula before 2018 was also accused of further reinforcing and perpetuating the bias for and against certain regions. FIFA's use of regional multiplier was cited as a primary reason why most teams in AFC (Asia) and CONCACAF (North America) held significantly lower FIFA rankings compared to their position in the World Football Elo Rankings.\n\nOn 10 June 2018, the new ranking system was approved by the FIFA Council. It is based on the Elo rating system and after each game points will be added to or subtracted from a team's rating according to the formula:\n\nwhere:\n\n\nNegative points in knockout stages of final competitions will not affect teams' ratings.\n\nEach year FIFA hands out two awards to its member nations, based on their performance in the rankings. They are:\n\nTeam of the Year is awarded to the team that finishes top of the FIFA World Ranking. Germany are the Team of the Year for the third time in the 24-year history of the rankings. Brazil hold the records for most consecutive wins (seven, between 1994 and 2000) and most wins overall (twelve). The table below shows the three best teams of each year.\n\nThe Best Mover of the Year was awarded to the team who made the best progress up the rankings over the course of the year. In the FIFA rankings, this is not simply the team that has risen the most places, but a calculation is performed in order to account for the fact that it becomes progressively harder to earn more points the higher up the rankings a team is.\n\nThe calculation used is the number of points the team has at the end of the year (\"z\") multiplied by the number of points it earned during the year (\"y\"). The team with the highest index on this calculation received the award. The table below shows the top three best movers from each year.\n\nThe award has not been an official part of the awards since 2006.\n\nWhile an official award has not been made for movements since 2006, FIFA has released a list of the 'Best Movers' in the rankings since 2007.\n\nAn example of the informal on-going \"Mover of the Year\" award is the recognition made by FIFA to Colombia in 2012 in an official press release. However, the calculation methodology had changed to the difference in ranking points over the course of the year (rather than the methodology used in the official award from 1993 to 2006). The results for latter years are based on a similar methodology.\n\nRankings are published monthly, usually on a Thursday. The deadline for the matches to be considered is usually the Thursday prior to the release date, but after major tournaments, all games up to the final are included. The 19 July 2018 release was cancelled following the new calculation method implementation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49602857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49602857", "title": "Flora of Lord Auckland and Campbell's Islands", "text": "Flora of Lord Auckland and Campbell's Islands\n\nThe Flora of Lord Auckland and Campbell's Islands is a description of the plants discovered in those islands during the Ross expedition written by Joseph Dalton Hooker and published by Reeve Brothers in London between 1843 and 1845. Hooker sailed on HMS \"Erebus\" as assistant surgeon. It was the first in a series of four Floras in the \"Flora Antarctica\", the others being the \"Flora of Fuegia, the Falklands, Kerguellen's land, etc\" (1845–1847), the \"Flora Novae-Zelandiae\" (1851–53), and the \"Flora Tasmaniae\" (1853–59). They were \"splendidly\" illustrated by Walter Hood Fitch.\n\nThe larger part of the plant specimens collected during the Ross expedition are now part of the Kew Herbarium.\n\nThe British government fitted out an expedition led by James Clark Ross to investigate magnetism and marine geography in high southern latitudes, which sailed with two ships, HMS \"Terror\" and HMS \"Erebus\" on 29 September 1839 from Chatham.\n\nThe ships arrived, after several stops, at the Cape of Good Hope on 4 April 1840. On 21 April the giant kelp \"Macrocystis pyrifera\" was found off Marion Island, but no landfall could be made there or on the Crozet Islands due to the harsh winds. On 12 May the ships anchored at Christmas Harbour for two and a half months, during which all the plant species previously encountered by James Cook on the Kerguelen Islands were collected. On 16 August they reached the River Derwent, remaining in Tasmania until 12 November. A week later the flotilla stopped at Lord Auckland's Islands and Campbell's Island for the spring months.\n\nLarge floating forests of \"Macrocystis\" and \"Durvillaea\" were found until the ships ran into icebergs at latitude 61° S. Pack-ice was met at 68° S and longitude 175°. During this part of the voyage Victoria Land, Mount Erebus and Mount Terror were discovered. After returning to Tasmania for three months, the flotilla went via Sydney to the Bay of Islands, and stayed for three months in New Zealand to collect plants there. After visiting other islands, the ships returned to the Cape of Good Hope on 4 April 1843. At the end of the journey specimens of some fifteen hundred plant species had been collected and preserved.\n\nAccording to Hooker, the flora of the islands south of Tasmania and New Zealand is related to that of New Zealand and bears no likeness to that of Australia. On the Auckland Islands wood grows near the sea and consists of the tree \"Metrosideros umbellata\" intermixed with woody \"Dracophyllum\", \"Coprosma\", \"Hebe\" (assigned to \"Veronica\" by Hooker) and \"Panax\". These are undergrown by many ferns. Higher up grow alpines. On the Campbell Islands brushwood is limited to narrow bays which are relatively sheltered. These islands are steeper and rocky and have bear less vegetation, primarily grasses.\n\nPlants collected by Hooker from Auckland and Campbell Islands are listed below. Species described by him should be cited with his acronym Hook.f. (Hooker filius), but this has not been applied here for brevity. Species already described by other authors are indicated though. Where applicable and as far as possible, the corrected botanical names, and the currently accepted name have been indicated accompanied by the abbreviated author names.\n\nThe following seedplants are described by Hooker in \"Flora Antarctica\".\nThe following ferns and clubmosses are described by Hooker in \"Flora Antarctica\" from the Auckland and Campbell Islands.\nThe following mosses are described by Hooker in \"Flora Antarctica\" from the Auckland and Campbell Islands.\n\nThe \"Flora Antarctica\" contains a very large number of liverwort species from the Auckland and Campbell Islands, at that time almost all assigned to the genus \"Jungermannia\". Of the 82 species mentioned in the \"Flora Antarctica\", 79 have since been reassigned to other genera in the Jungermanniales. Hooker credits the scientists in the Cryptogamic Botany Department, especially Thomas Taylor, for their expertise and cooperation in preparing the sections on mosses, liverworts and lichens. The species published under their common authorship are generally indicated by Hook.f & Taylor. This has been omitted in this section for brevity. Authors are also not indicated with type species that have later been transferred to another genus while retaining the original species epithet, because this authority appears in the new combination between brackets. All other author (combinations) were indicated though.\n\n\nThe following fungi are described by Hooker in \"Flora Antarctica\" from the Auckland and Campbell Islands.\n"}
{"id": "50307095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50307095", "title": "Grand Ricci", "text": "Grand Ricci\n\nLe Grand Ricci (or Grand dictionnaire Ricci de la langue chinoise, Simplified Chinese : 利氏汉法辞典 ; Traditional Chinese : 利氏漢法辭典 ; pinyin : Lìshì Hàn-Fǎ cídiǎn ; literally : “Dictionnaire chinois-français Ricci” (2001), from the name of the 15th century Italian missionary, Matteo Ricci.\n\nIt is composed of seven volumes of more than 1,200 pages each, identifying 13,500 characters, and about 300,000 entries of terms and expressions. It is, therefore, the largest Chinese-French dictionary yet, and probably the largest dictionary of Chinese into a Western language.\n\nIt has become widely known since its publication in 2001, Le Grand Ricci is the most comprehensive up-to-date dictionary of Chinese into a modern Western language. Though it covers the whole history of Chinese language development, most of the dictionary deals with early and imperial period Chinese language usage.\"It is difficult to imagine any scholar in Chinese studies who will not eagerly welcome this new digital incarnation of the Le Grand Ricci. Le Grand Ricci is to all purposes the most comprehensive bilingual dictionary of Chinese in the Western world. It covers three millennia of the Chinese language, from the Classics to the modern age, and is encyclopedic in its scope. The compilers were able to draw on the full range of French sinological expertise in completing the project. Since its publication Le Grand Ricci has established itself as an indispensable reference tool. Now available online, and easily searchable, its functionality has only further increased.\"Wilt L. Idema. Research Professor of Chinese Literature, HarvardOn the 11th of May, 2010, the DVD version was presented for the first time at the Shanghai Museum. The resources of the Ricci dictionary are available on Android phones and tablets and Apple IOS via Pleco Software.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8978381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8978381", "title": "Hortus deliciarum", "text": "Hortus deliciarum\n\nHortus deliciarum (Latin for \"Garden of Delights\") is a medieval manuscript compiled by Herrad of Landsberg at the Hohenburg Abbey in Alsace, better known today as Mont Sainte-Odile. It was an illuminated encyclopedia, begun in 1167 as a pedagogical tool for young novices at the convent. It is the first encyclopedia that was evidently written by a woman. It was finished in 1185, and was one of the most celebrated illuminated manuscripts of the period. The majority of the work is in Latin, with glosses in German.\n\nMost of the manuscript was not original, but a compendium of 12th century knowledge. The manuscript contained poems, illustrations, and music, and drew from texts by classical and Arab writers. Interspersed with writings from other sources were poems by Herrad, addressed to the nuns, almost all of which were set to music. The most famous portion of the manuscript are its 336 illustrations, which symbolised various themes, including theosophical, philosophical, and literary. These works are well regarded.\n\nIn 1870, the manuscript was burnt and destroyed when the library housing it in Strasbourg was bombed during a siege on the city. It is possible to reconstruct parts of the manuscript because portions of it had been copied in various sources; Christian Maurice Engelhardt copied the miniatures in 1818, and the text was copied and published by Straub and Keller between 1879 and 1899.\n\n\"Hortus deliciarum\" is one of the first sources of polyphony originating from a convent. The manuscript contained at least 20 song texts, all of which were originally notated with music. Those that can be recognized now are from the conductus repertory, and are mainly note against note in texture. The notation was in semi-quadratic neumes with pairs of four-line staves. Two songs survive with music intact: \"Primus parens hominum\", a monophonic song, and a two-part work, \"Sol oritur occasus\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8677209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8677209", "title": "James Elkins (art historian)", "text": "James Elkins (art historian)\n\nJames Elkins (born 1955) is an American art historian and art critic. He is E.C. Chadbourne Chair of art history, theory, and criticism at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago. He also coordinates the Stone Summer Theory Institute, a short term school on contemporary art history based at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39335251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39335251", "title": "Larbi-Odam v MEC for Education (North-West Province)", "text": "Larbi-Odam v MEC for Education (North-West Province)\n\nLarbi-Odam v MEC for Education (North-West Province) is a 1997 judgment of the Constitutional Court of South Africa which held that a government policy forbidding the employment of non-citizens (including permanent residents) in permanent teaching positions, was unconstitutional. Although citizenship is not one of the prohibited grounds for discrimination listed in the equality clause of South Africa's Constitution, the court found unanimously that in this case discrimination against non-citizens was unfair. It came to this decision because non-citizens are necessarily a minority with little political power, and because citizenship is a personal attribute which is difficult to change.\n\n"}
{"id": "32344886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32344886", "title": "Letter of comfort (contract law)", "text": "Letter of comfort (contract law)\n\nA letter of comfort, sometimes called a \"letter of intent\", is a communication from a party to a contract to the other party that indicates an initial willingness to enter into a contractual obligation absent the elements of a legally enforceable contract. The objective is to create a morally binding but not legally binding assurance.\n\nGenerally, a letter of comfort is drafted only in vague terms, to avoid creating enforceable contract terms. Few nations regulate letters of comfort by statute; whether a letter of comfort creates legally enforceable contractual terms is often determined only by courts of law, based solely on the wording of the document. Despite their nonbinding status, letters of comfort nonetheless provide risk mitigation because the parent company is putting its own reputation in jeopardy.\n\nIn international contracts, letters of comfort are often used to assure a contracting party that a parent corporation will provide its subsidiary with the necessary resources to fulfill the contract. However, under both international and European Union law, a letter of comfort does not require the parent corporation to fulfill the obligations incurred by its subsidiary. When used to provide support for a subsidiary's actions, a letter of comfort usually consists of three terms:\n\nCanada recognizes two types of letters of comfort. The weaker version, in which a parent organization acknowledges that a subsidiary has entered into a contract but which provides no assurance of intention, is called a \"letter of awareness\". The stronger version, the letter of comfort, indicates the parent organization's intention to support the subsidiary. In the United States, there is a general presumption against the enforceability of letters of comfort. However, depending on the wording of the document, there may be legal liability under the rule of reliance.\n"}
{"id": "25839957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25839957", "title": "List of Intel graphics processing units", "text": "List of Intel graphics processing units\n\nThis page contains information about Intel's GPUs and motherboard graphics chipsets in table form.\nIn 1982 Intel licensed the NEC µPD7220 and announced it as the Intel 82720 Graphics Display Controller.\n\nIntel's first generation GPUs. \nIntel marketed its second generation using the brand Extreme Graphics. These chips added support for texture combiners allowing support for OpenGL 1.3.\n\nThird generation consists of integrated graphics processing units with DirectX 9 support. Even though they are DirectX 9 compliant, vertex shaders are created in software by the CPU, resulting in some games not working due to the missing on hardware vertex shaders.\nIntel released its latest generation of integrated GMA chipsets. The fourth generation consists of Shader Model 3.0 and 4.0 integrated graphics with hardware support for both vertex and pixel shaders.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDouble-precision FLOPS:\n"}
{"id": "1616692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1616692", "title": "List of reporting marks: A", "text": "List of reporting marks: A\n\n"}
{"id": "207217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=207217", "title": "Magi", "text": "Magi\n\nMagi (; singular magus ; from Latin \"magus\") denotes followers of Zoroastrianism or Zoroaster. The earliest known use of the word Magi is in the trilingual inscription written by Darius the Great, known as the Behistun Inscription. Old Persian texts, pre-dating the Hellenistic period, refer to a Magus as a Zurvanic, and presumably Zoroastrian, priest.\n\nPervasive throughout the Eastern Mediterranean and Western Asia until late antiquity and beyond, \"mágos\" was influenced by (and eventually displaced) Greek \"goēs\" (γόης), the older word for a practitioner of magic, to include astronomy/astrology, alchemy and other forms of esoteric knowledge. This association was in turn the product of the Hellenistic fascination for (Pseudo‑)Zoroaster, who was perceived by the Greeks to be the Chaldean founder of the Magi and inventor of both astrology and magic, a meaning that still survives in the modern-day words \"magic\" and \"magician\".\n\n\"μάγοι\" from the east visit Jesus in Chapter 2 of the Gospel of Matthew, and the transliterated plural \"magi\" entered English from Latin in this context around 1200 (this particular use is also commonly rendered in English as \"kings\" and more often in recent times as \"wise men\"). The singular \"magus\" appears considerably later, when it was borrowed from Old French in the late 14th century with the meaning \"magician\".\n\nThe Avestan word \"magâunô\", i.e. the religious caste of the Medes, (see Yasna 33.7: \"ýâ sruyê parê magâunô\" \"so I can be heard beyond Magi\"), seems to be the origin of the term.\n\nThe term only appears twice in Iranian texts from before the 5th century BCE, and only one of these can be dated with precision. This one instance occurs in the trilingual Behistun inscription of Darius the Great, and which can be dated to about 520 BCE. In this trilingual text, certain rebels have 'magian' as an attribute; in the Old Persian portion as \"maγu-\" (generally assumed to be a loan word from Median). The meaning of the term in this context is uncertain.\n\nThe other instance appears in the texts of the Avesta, i.e. in the sacred literature of Zoroastrianism. In this instance, which is in the Younger Avestan portion, the term appears in the hapax \"moghu.tbiš\", meaning \"hostile to the \"moghu\"\", where \"moghu\" does not (as was previously thought) mean \"magus\", but rather \"a member of the tribe\" or referred to a particular social class in the proto-Iranian language and then continued to do so in Avestan.\n\nAn unrelated term, but previously assumed to be related, appears in the older Gathic Avestan language texts. This word, adjectival \"magavan\" meaning \"possessing \"maga-\"\", was once the premise that Avestan \"maga-\" and Median (i.e. Old Persian) \"magu-\" were co-eval (and also that both these were cognates of Vedic Sanskrit \"magha-\"). While \"in the Gathas the word seems to mean both the teaching of Zoroaster and the community that accepted that teaching\", and it seems that Avestan \"maga-\" is related to Sanskrit \"magha-\", \"there is no reason to suppose that the western Iranian form \"magu\" (Magus) has exactly the same meaning\" as well.\n\nBut it \"may be, however\", that Avestan \"moghu\" (which is not the same as Avestan \"maga-\") \"and Medean \"magu\" were the same word in origin, a common Iranian term for 'member of the tribe' having developed among the Medes the special sense of 'member of \"the\" (priestly) tribe', hence a priest.\"\n\nThe oldest surviving Greek reference to the magi – from Greek μάγος (\"mágos\", plural: \"magoi\") – might be from 6th century BCE Heraclitus (apud Clemens \"Protrepticus 12\"), who curses the magi for their \"impious\" rites and rituals. A description of the rituals that Heraclitus refers to has not survived, and there is nothing to suggest that Heraclitus was referring to foreigners.\n\nBetter preserved are the descriptions of the mid-5th century BCE Herodotus, who in his portrayal of the Iranian expatriates living in Asia minor uses the term \"magi\" in two different senses. In the first sense (\"Histories\" 1.101), Herodotus speaks of the magi as one of the tribes/peoples (\"ethnous\") of the Medes. In another sense (1.132), Herodotus uses the term \"magi\" to generically refer to a \"sacerdotal caste\", but \"whose ethnic origin is never again so much as mentioned.\" According to Robert Charles Zaehner, in other accounts, \"we hear of Magi not only in Persia, Parthia, Bactria, Chorasmia, Aria, Media, and among the Sakas, but also in non-Iranian lands like Samaria, Ethiopia, and Egypt. Their influence was also widespread throughout Asia Minor. It is, therefore, quite likely that the sacerdotal caste of the Magi was distinct from the Median tribe of the same name.\"\n\nOther Greek sources from before the Hellenistic period include the gentleman-soldier Xenophon, who had first-hand experience at the Persian Achaemenid court. In his early 4th century BCE \"Cyropaedia\", Xenophon depicts the magians as authorities for all religious matters (8.3.11), and imagines the magians to be responsible for the education of the emperor-to-be.\n\nVictor H. Mair provides archaeological and linguistic evidence suggesting that Chinese \"wū\" (巫 \"shaman; witch, wizard; magician\", Old Chinese *\"mag\") was maybe a loanword from Old Persian *\"maguš\" \"magician; magi\". He describes:\n\nThese figurines, which are dated circa 8th century BCE, were discovered during a 1980 excavation of a Zhou Dynasty palace in Fufeng County, Shaanxi Province.\n\nMair connects the ancient Bronzeware script for \"wu\" 巫 \"shaman\" (a cross with potents) with a Western heraldic symbol of magicians, the cross potent ☩, which \"can hardly be attributable to sheer coincidence or chance independent origination.\"\n\nCompared with the linguistic reconstructions of many Indo-European languages, the current reconstruction of Old (or \"Archaic\") Chinese is more provisional. This velar final \"-g\" in Mair's *\"mag\" (巫) is evident in several Old Chinese reconstructions (Dong Tonghe's *\"mwag\", Zhou Fagao's *\"mjwaγ\", and Li Fanggui's *\"mjag\"), but not all (Bernhard Karlgren's *\"mwo\" and Axel Schuessler's *\"ma\").\n\nAs early as the 5th century BCE, Greek \"magos\" had spawned \"mageia\" and \"magike\" to describe the activity of a magus, that is, it was his or her art and practice. But almost from the outset the noun for the action and the noun for the actor parted company. Thereafter, \"mageia\" was used not for what actual magi did, but for something related to the word 'magic' in the modern sense, i.e. using supernatural means to achieve an effect in the natural world, or the appearance of achieving these effects through trickery or sleight of hand. The early Greek texts typically have the pejorative meaning, which in turn influenced the meaning of \"magos\" to denote a conjurer and a charlatan. Already in the mid-5th century BC, Herodotus identifies the \"magi\" as interpreters of omens and dreams (\"Histories\" 7.19, 7.37, 1.107, 1.108, 1.120, 1.128).\n\nOnce the magi had been associated with \"magic\"—Greek \"magikos\"—it was but a natural progression that the Greeks' image of Zoroaster would metamorphose into a magician too. The first century Pliny the elder names \"Zoroaster\" as the inventor of magic (\"Natural History\" xxx.2.3), but a \"principle of the division of labor appears to have spared Zoroaster most of the responsibility for introducing the dark arts to the Greek and Roman worlds. That dubious honor went to another fabulous magus, Ostanes, to whom most of the pseudepigraphic magical literature was attributed.\" For Pliny, this magic was a \"monstrous craft\" that gave the Greeks not only a \"lust\" (\"aviditatem\") for magic, but a downright \"madness\" (\"rabiem\") for it, and Pliny supposed that Greek philosophers—among them Pythagoras, Empedocles, Democritus, and Plato—traveled abroad to study it, and then returned to teach it (xxx.2.8–10).\n\n\"Zoroaster\" – or rather what the Greeks supposed him to be – was for the Hellenists the figurehead of the 'magi', and the founder of that order (or what the Greeks considered to be an order). He was further projected as the author of a vast compendium of \"Zoroastrian\" pseudepigrapha, composed in the main to discredit the texts of rivals. \"The Greeks considered the best wisdom to be exotic wisdom\" and \"what better and more convenient authority than the distant — temporally and geographically — Zoroaster?\" The subject of these texts, the authenticity of which was rarely challenged, ranged from treatises on nature to ones on necromancy. But the bulk of these texts dealt with astronomical speculations and magical lore.\n\nOne factor for the association with astrology was Zoroaster's name, or rather, what the Greeks made of it. Within the scheme of Greek thinking (which was always on the lookout for hidden significances and \"real\" meanings of words) his name was identified at first with star-worshiping (\"astrothytes\" \"star sacrificer\") and, with the \"Zo-\", even as the \"living\" star. Later, an even more elaborate mytho-etymology evolved: Zoroaster died by the living (\"zo-\") flux (\"-ro-\") of fire from the star (\"-astr-\") which he himself had invoked, and even, that the stars killed him in revenge for having been restrained by him.\n\nThe second, and \"more serious\" factor for the association with astrology was the notion that Zoroaster was a Chaldean. The alternate Greek name for Zoroaster was Zaratas/Zaradas/Zaratos (\"cf.\" Agathias 2.23–5, Clement \"Stromata\" I.15), which—according to Bidez and Cumont—derived from a Semitic form of his name. The Pythagorean tradition considered the \"founder\" of their order to have studied with Zoroaster in Chaldea (Porphyry \"Life of Pythagoras\" 12, Alexander Polyhistor apud Clement's \"Stromata\" I.15, Diodorus of Eritrea, Aristoxenus apud Hippolitus VI32.2). Lydus (\"On the Months\" II.4) attributes the creation of the seven-day week to \"the Chaldeans in the circle of Zoroaster and Hystaspes\", and who did so because there were seven planets. The Suda's chapter on \"astronomia\" notes that the Babylonians learned their astrology from Zoroaster. Lucian of Samosata (\"Mennipus\" 6) decides to journey to Babylon \"to ask one of the magi, Zoroaster's disciples and successors\", for their opinion.\n\nIn Arabic texts, as in Greco-Roman tradition, Zoroaster is \"founder\" of the magians, Arabic \"majusya\".\n\nIn the 1980s, under the secular Ba'ath Party formerly led by Saddam Hussein, among the many propaganda campaigns of Iraq, the term \"majus\" was used during the Iran–Iraq War as a generalization of all modern-day Iranians. \"By referring to the Iranians in these documents as \"majus\", the security apparatus [implied] that the Iranians [were] not sincere Muslims, but rather covertly practice their pre-Islamic beliefs. Thus, in their eyes, Iraq's war took on the dimensions of not only a struggle for Arab nationalism, but also a campaign in the name of Islam.\"\n\nThe word \"mágos\" (Greek) and its variants appears in both the Old and New Testaments. Ordinarily this word is translated \"magician\" or \"sorcerer\" in the sense of illusionist or fortune-teller, and this is how it is translated in all of its occurrences (e.g. Acts 13:6) except for the Gospel of Matthew, where, depending on translation, it is rendered \"wise man\" (KJV, RSV) or left untranslated as \"Magi\", typically with an explanatory note (NIV). However, early church fathers, such as St. Justin, Origen, St. Augustine and St. Jerome, did not make an exception for the Gospel, and translated the word in its ordinary sense, i.e. as \"magician\".\n\nThe Gospel of Matthew states that magi visited the infant Jesus shortly after his birth (). The gospel describes how magi from the east were notified of the birth of a king in Judaea by the appearance of his star. Upon their arrival in Jerusalem, they visited King Herod to determine the location of the king of the Jews's birthplace. Herod, disturbed, told them that he had not heard of the child, but informed them of a prophecy that the Messiah would be born in Bethlehem. He then asked the magi to inform him when they find the infant so that Herod may also worship him. Guided by the Star of Bethlehem, the wise men found the baby Jesus in a house; Matthew does not say if the house was in Bethlehem. They worshipped him, and presented him with \"gifts of gold and of frankincense and of myrrh.\" (2.11) In a dream they are warned not to return to Herod, and therefore return to their homes by taking another route. Since its composition in the late 1st century, numerous apocryphal stories have embellished the gospel's account. implies that Herod learned from the wise men that up to two years had passed since the birth, which is why all male children two years or younger were slaughtered.\n\nIn addition to the more famous story of Simon Magus found in chapter 8, the \"Book of Acts\" () also describes another magus who acted as an advisor of Sergius Paulus, the Roman proconsul at Paphos on the island of Cyprus. He was a Jew named Bar-Jesus (son of Jesus), or alternatively Elymas. (Another Cypriot magus named Atomos is referenced by Josephus, working at the court of Felix at Caesarea.)\n\nOne of the non-canonical Christian sources, the Syriac Infancy Gospel, provides, in its third chapter, a story of the wise men of the East which is very similar to much of the story in Matthew. Unlike Matthew, however, this account cites Zoradascht (Zoroaster) as the source of the prophecy that motivated the wise men to seek the infant Jesus. \n\nAlthough some Islamic scholars have inferred an implicit reference, the Qur'an mentions the 'Majūs' or 'Magus' or Magians (المجوس) explicitly only once:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20610", "title": "Montoneros", "text": "Montoneros\n\nMontoneros () was an Argentine leftist urban guerrilla group, active during the 1960s and 1970s. The name is an allusion to the 19th century cavalry militias, called Montoneras, who fought for the Partido Federal during the Argentine Civil Wars.\n\nAfter Juan Perón's return from 18 years of exile and the 1973 Ezeiza massacre, which marked the definitive split between left and right-wing Peronism, the president expelled the Montoneros from the Justicialist party in May 1974. The group was completely destroyed during the Dirty War.\n\nIn Latin America, left-wing guerrillas arose in response to state terror. Some resorted to kidnapping and violence as in their struggle against right-wing dictatorships in Latin America during the 1970s. The Montoneros began as a self-described Christian, nationalist, and socialist group; but as time passed the socialist element eclipsed the Christian. Giussani claims that the Montoneros maintained that democracies were a complex masquerade that concealed fascist governments and delayed class struggle. Their attacks sought to force the governments to give up such pretensions and operate openly as fascist governments, expecting that in such a scenario the people would then support the guerrillas. This doctrine did not work as intended: people despised the military dictatorships, but some did not see the guerrillas as the enemies of the dictatorships, but rather as a contributing cause to the government's repression. The projected class struggle never took place, chiefly because of the U.S.-backed military dictatorship's repression of all dissent.\n\nAlthough Juan Perón encouraged the actions of José López Rega, supported the right-wing unionists and denied preferential promotions to the Montoneros, they thought that his actions were simply a strategic masquerade. Some believed that Perón supported the Montoneros' projects. Perón expelled the group from Plaza de Mayo and outlined the government's counter-insurgency that decimated the guerrillas. Some surviving Montoneros still acknowledge Perón as their leader. Shortly after his return to Argentina, however, Peron moved to the Right and insulted all leftists, prompting the Montoneros to go underground.\n\nThe Montoneros formed around 1970 out of a confluence of Roman Catholic groups, university students in social sciences, and leftist supporters of Juan Domingo Perón. \"The Montoneros took their name from the pejorative term used by the 19th-century elite to discredit the mounted followers of the popular caudillos.\" Montonera referred to the raiding parties composed by Native Americans in Argentina, and the spear in the Montoneros seal refers to this inspiration. Their best-known leader was Mario Firmenich. The Montoneros hoped that Perón would return from exile in Francoist Spain and transform Argentina into a \"Socialist Fatherland\".\n\nThe Montoneros initiated a campaign to destabilise by force the regime supported by the U.S., which had trained Argentinian and other Latin American dictators via the School of the Americas. Despite the extreme repression of the Argentina military dictatorship, the Montoneros committed many acts of resistance to the regime.\n\nIn 1970, as retribution for the June 1956 León Suárez massacre and Juan José Valle's execution, the Montoneros kidnapped and executed former dictator Pedro Eugenio Aramburu (1955–1958) and other collaborators. In November 1971, in solidarity with militant car workers, Montoneros took over a car manufacturing plant in Caseros, sprayed 38 Fiats with petrol, and set them afire. On 14 February 1972, FAL guerrillas supporting urban operations in the Barrio Norte suburb of Buenos Aires, deliver a bomb concealed in a flower bouquet to the house of the ex-Justice Minister Jaime Perriaux, killing three policemen (Roque Russo, Rómulo Salvatierra and Néstor Godoy) and mortally wounding another (Oscar Raúl Pereda) of an anti-explosives unit, and wounding eleven others, including neighbours.\nIn July 1972, they set off explosives in the Plaza de San Isidro in Buenos Aires, which injured three policemen and blinded one fireman (Carlos Adrián Ayala), who died two days later because of complications. In April 1973, Colonel Héctor Irabarren, head of the 3rd Army Corps' Intelligence Service, was killed when resisting a kidnap attempt by the Mariano Pojadas and Susana Lesgart platoons of the Montoneros.\n\nOn 17 October 1972, a powerful bomb detonated inside the Sheraton Hotel in Buenos Aires, to the horror of nearly 700 guests, killing a Canadian woman (Lois Crozier, travel agent from West Vancouver) and gravely wounding her husband Gerry as he slept. The Montoneros and the Revolutionary Armed Forces later claimed responsibility for the attack. The Montoneros financed their operations by kidnapping and collecting ransoms for businessmen or executives, making as much as $14.2 million in 1974 in an abduction of an Exxon executive.\n\nOn 11 March 1973, Argentina held general elections for the first time in ten years. Perón loyalist Héctor Cámpora became president and Perón returned from Spain. In a controversial move, he released all left-wing guerrillas held captive at the time in Argentina. Cámpora resigned in July to allow Perón to win the new elections held in October. However, a feud developed between right-wing Peronists and the Montoneros. The right wing of the Peronist party, the unions, and the Radical Party led by Ricardo Balbín favoured a social pact between trade unions and employers, rather than a violent socialist revolution.\n\nRight-wingers and Montoneros clashed at Perón's homecoming ceremony, leading to the 20 June 1973 Ezeiza massacre, which resulted in 13 dead and more than 300 wounded. Perón supported the unions, the radicals led by Balbín, and the right-wing Peronists. Among the latter was a former federal police corporal, José López Rega, who was the founder of the \"Alianza Anticomunista Argentina\" (\"Triple A\"), paramilitary death squads, which had organised the massacre.\n\nOn 25 September 1973, the Montoneros assassinated José Ignacio Rucci, general secretary of the CGT (General Confederation of Labour) and took other military actions in retaliation.\n\nOn 21 February 1974, the Montoneros killed Teodoro Ponce, a right-wing Peronist labour leader in Rosario. He had sought refuge in a local business after being shot at while driving by a carload of masked gunmen. One of the gunmen who got out of the car shot him dead while he lay on the floor and also shot a woman, who screamed out, \"Murderer.\"\n\nIn May 1974, Perón expelled the Montoneros from the Justicialist movement. The Montoneros waited until after the death of Perón in July 1974 to react. They claimed to have the \"social revolutionary vision of authentic Peronism\" and started guerrilla operations against the government. The more radically right-wing factions quickly took control of the government; Isabel Perón, president since Juan Perón's death, was essentially a figurehead under the influence of Rega.\n\nOn 15 July 1974, Montoneros assassinated Arturo Mor Roig, a former foreign minister. On 17 July, they murdered David Kraiselburd, journalist and editor-in-chief of \"El Día\" newspaper, in the Manuel B. Gonnet suburb of Buenos Aires after an exchange of fire with police.\n\nIn September, in order to finance their operations, they kidnapped the two brothers of the Bunge and Born family business. Some 20 urban guerrillas dressed as policemen shot dead a bodyguard and chauffeur and diverted traffic in this well-orchestrated ambush. Some 30 militants and sympathisers among the civilian population provided safe houses to the guerrillas and a means to escape. They demanded and received a ransom of $60 million in cash, as well as $1.2 million worth of food and clothing to be given to the poor. According to the Guinness Book of Records, this ransom is the highest ever paid.\n\nUnder López Rega's orders, the Triple A began kidnapping, and killing members of Montoneros and the People's Revolutionary Army (ERP), as well as other leftist militant groups. They expanded their attacks to anyone considered a leftist subversive or sympathiser, such as these groups' deputies or lawyers.\n\nThe Montoneros and the ERP in turn attacked business and political figures throughout Argentina, and raided military bases for weapons and explosives. The Montoneros killed executives from General Motors, Ford and Chrysler. On 16 September 1974, about 40 Montoneros bombs exploded throughout Argentina. They targeted foreign companies and ceremonies during commemorations of the military revolt that had ended Juan Perón's first term as president. Targets included three Ford showrooms; Peugeot and IKA-Renault showrooms; Goodyear and Firestone tyre distributors, the pharmaceutical manufacturers Riker and Eli Lilly, the Union Carbide Battery Company, the Bank of Boston, Chase Manhattan Bank, the Xerox Corporation, and the soft drink companies, Coca-Cola and Pepsi-Cola. The Peronist guerrillas also held up at gunpoint two trains in a Buenos Aires suburb on 16 September. The Montoneros discouraged foreign investment more directly by blowing up the homes of their executives. For example, in 1975 the homes of five executives of Lazar Laboratories were bombed in the suburb of La Plata in Buenos Aires. The violence was widespread.\n\nOn 7 February, four carloads of Montoneros intercepted the car driven by Antonio Muscat, a manager of the Bunge y Born firm, and shot him dead in the presence of his daughter. On 14 February 1975, Montoneros killed Hipólito Acuña, a politician, as he parked his car outside his home in the city of Santa Fe.\nOn 18 February, Montoneros gunmen killed Félix Villafañe of the FITAM S.A. workers union, in the presence of his wife in the suburb of San Isidro in Buenos Aires. On 22 February 1975, in an ambush in the Lomas de Zamora suburb of Buenos Aires, three policemen (First Sergeant Nicolás Cardozo, Corporal Roberto Roque Fredes and Constables Eugenio Rodriguez and Abel Pascuzzi) were killed after their patrol car came under fire from Montoneros guerrillas. On 26 February 1975, the Montoneros kidnapped 62-year-old John Patrick Egan, a U.S. consular agent in the city of Córdoba, executing him two days later. That same day, they killed three policemen in another ambush by urban guerrillas in Buenos Aires, and an army conscript in Tucumán province was reported to have been killed in action. On 5 March 1975, a Montoneros bomb detonated in the underground parking at Plaza Colón of the Argentine Army High Command; a garbage truck driver (Alberto Blas García) was killed and 28 others were wounded, including four colonels and 18 other ranks. In early June 1975, Montoneros guerrillas murdered executives David Bargut and Raul Amelong of the Acindar steel firm in Rosario, in reprisal for alleged repression against striking employees. On 10 June 1975, guerrillas in Santa Fe shot and killed Juan Enrique Pelayes, a trade union leader. On 12 June 1975, in an ambush in the capital of the Córdoba province, three policemen (Pedro Ramón Enrico, Carlos Alberto Galíndez and corporal Luis Francisco Rodríguez) were killed by guerrillas. On 25 July 1975 four policemen were wounded in guerrilla attacks using bazookas and firebombs. On 26 August 1975, 26-year-old Fernando Haymal was killed by fellow Montoneros for allegedly cooperating with government forces.\n\nThe Montoneros' leadership was keen to learn from the ERP's \"Compañía de Monte Ramón Rosa Jiménez\" operating in the Andean province of Tucumán. In 1975 they sent \"observers\" to spend a few months with the ERP platoons operating against the 5th Infantry Brigade, then consisting of the 19th, 20th and 29th Mountain Infantry Regiments. On 28 August 1975 the Montoneros planted a bomb in a culvert at the Tucumán air base airstrip. The blast destroyed an air force C-130 transport carrying 116 anti-guerrilla commandos of the Gendarmerie, killing five and wounding 40, one of whom later died of his injuries.\n\nThe network of Montoneros militants had been largely uprooted by the government in the capital of Tucumán province. In August 1975, several hundred Montoneros militants took to the streets in Córdoba, to divert attention from the military operations being waged in the mountains of Tucumán. They shot and killed five policemen (Sergeant Juan Carlos Román, Corporal Rosario del Carmen Moyano and Agents Luis Rodolfo López, Jorge Natividad Luna and Juan Antonio Diaz) after attacking their headquarters and bombed the police radio communications centre. As a result, the elite 4th Airborne Infantry Brigade, which had been ordered to assist operations in Tucumán province, was kept in Córdoba for the rest of the year.\n\nOn 5 October 1975, the Montoneros carried out a complex operation against a regiment of the 5th Brigade. During this attack named \"Operation Primicia\" (\"Operation Scoop\") a Montoneros force numbering an estimated several hundred guerrillas and underground supporters, set in motion an assault on an army barracks in Formosa province. On 5 October 1975, Montoneros members hijacked a civilian airliner bound for Corrientes from Buenos Aires. The guerrillas redirected the plane to Formosa, and took over the provincial airport, killing policeman Neri Argentino Alegre in the process. With tactical support from a local militant group, the invaders attacked the barracks of the 29th Infantry Regiment with gunfire and hand grenades. They shot several soldiers who had been resting in their quarters.\n\nAfter the soldiers and NCOs got over their initial surprise, they mounted stiff resistance to the attacking Montoneros. In total, a second lieutenant (Ricardo Massaferro), sergeant (Víctor Sanabria) and ten conscripts (Antonio Arrieta, Heriberto Avalos, José Coronel, Dante Salvatierra, Ismael Sánchez, Tomás Sánchez, Edmundo Roberto Sosa, Marcelino Torales, Alberto Villalba and Hermindo Luna) were killed and several wounded. The Montoneros lost 16 killed in total. Two policemen later died of their wounds. The Montoneros escaped by air into a remote area in adjoining Santa Fe province. The aircraft, a Boeing 737, landed in a crop field not far from the city of Rafaela. The Peronist guerrillas fled to waiting cars on a highway nearby.\n\nThe sophistication of the operation, and the getaway cars and hideouts they used to escape the military crackdown, suggest the involvement of several hundred guerrillas and civilian sympathisers in Montoneros' organisation. In a controversial move under the presidency of Nestor Kirchner, the families of all the Montoneros killed in the attack were each later compensated with the payment of around US$200,000.\n\nOn 26 October 1975, a Catholic youth leader, Juan Ignacio Isla Casares, with the help of the Montoneros commander Eduardo Pereira Rossi (nom de guerre \"El Carlón\") was the mastermind behind the ambush and killing of five policemen (Pedro Dettle, Juan Ramón Costa, Carlos Livio Cejas, Cleofás Galeano and Juan Fernández) near near San Isidro Cathedral. \n\nDuring February 1976, the Montoneros sent assistance to the hard-pressed \"Compañía de Monte Ramón Rosa Jiménez\" fighting in Tucumán province, in the form of a company of their elite \"Jungle Troops\", while the ERP backed them up with a company of their guerrillas from Cordoba. The \"Baltimore Sun\" reported at the time, \"\"In the jungle-covered mountains of Tucuman, long known as \"Argentina's garden,\" Argentines are fighting Argentines in a Vietnam-style civil war. So far, the outcome is in doubt. But there is no doubt about the seriousness of the combat, which involves 2,000 or so leftist guerrillas and perhaps as many as 10,000 soldiers.\"\"\n\nWhile the ERP fought the army in Tucumán, the Montoneros were active in Buenos Aires. Montoneros' leadership dismissed the tactics of the ERP in Tucumán as \"old fashioned\" and \"inappropriate\" but still sent reinforcements. On 26 October 1975 five policemen (Pedro Dettle, Juan Ramón Costa, Carlos Livio Cejas, Cleofás Galeano and Juan Fernández) were killed in Buenos Aires when Montoneros guerrillas ambushed their patrol cars near the San Isidro Cathedral. Two of the captured policemen were reported to have been executed in this operation under the orders of the Montoneros commander Eduardo Pereyra Rossi (nom de guerre Carlon).\n\nIn December 1975, Montoneros raided an armaments factory in the capital's Munro neighbourhood, fleeing with 250 assault rifles and sub-machine guns. That same month, a Montoneros bomb exploded at the headquarters of the Argentine army in Buenos Aires, injuring at least six soldiers. By the end of 1975, a total of 137 army officers, NCOs and conscripts and policemen had been killed that year and approximately 3,000 wounded by left wing terrorism. U.S. journalist Paul Hoeffel in an article written for the Boston Globe concluded that, \"Although there is widespread reluctance to use the term, it is now impossible to ignore the fact that civil war has broken out in Argentina.\"\n\nMontoneros were inspired by the British and Italian wartime commando raids on warships, and on 1 November 1974 Montoneros successfully blew up General Commissioner Alberto Villar, the chief of the Argentine federal police in his yacht. His wife was also killed on the spot. On 24 August 1975 their frogmen planted a mine on the river's bed below the hull of a navy destroyer, the ARA \"Santísima Trinidad \", as she remained docked at Rio Santiago before her commissioning. The explosion caused considerable damage to the ship's computer and electronic equipment. On 14 December 1975, using the same techniques, Montoneros frogmen placed explosives on the yacht \"Itati\" in an attempt to kill the Commander-in-Chief of the Argentine navy, Admiral Emilio Massera. While Massera was not injured, the yacht was badly damaged by the explosives.\n\nIn January 1976, the son of retired Lieutenant-General Julio Alsogoray, Juan Alsogaray (El Hippie), copied from his father's safe a draft of \"Battle Order 24 March\" and passed it to the head of the Montoneros intelligence, Rodolfo Walsh, who informed the guerrilla leadership of the planned military coup. Private Sergio Tarnopolsky, serving in the Argentine Marine Corps in 1976, also passed on valuable information to Walsh regarding the tortures and killings of left-wing guerrillas taking place in ESMA. He was later that year made to disappear along with his father Hugo and mother Blanca and sister Betina in revenge for a bomb that he planted in the detention centre which failed to explode. The only survivor was his brother Daniel, who was not at home the day of the raid. On 26 January, ERP guerrillas supporting Montoneros operations in the suburb of Barracas in Buenos Aires, kill a female police traffic officer (Silvia Ester Rosboch de Campana). On 29 January, during a raid on the Bendix factory in the suburb of Munro in Buenos Aires, Montoneros shoot and kill Alberto Olabarrieta and Jorge Sarlenga of the factory's management, and an off-duty policeman, Juan Carlos Garavaglio, who had tried to intervene.\n\nOn 2 February 1976 about fifty Montoneros attacked the Juan Vucetich Police Academy in the suburb of La Plata but were repelled when the police cadets fought back and reinforcements arrived. On 13 February 1976, the Argentine army scored a major success when the 14th Airborne Infantry Regiment of the 4th Airborne Infantry Brigade ambushed the 65-strong Montoneros Jungle Company, in an action near the town of Cadillal in Tucumán province. The 2nd Airborne Infantry Regiment of the same brigade, was also released from garrison duties in the city of Córdoba after the ERP armed uprising that killed 5 policemen there in August 1975 and would achieve similar success against the ERP's \"Decididos de Córdoba\" company sent to rekindle the insurgency in Tucumán province. In the week preceding the military coup, the Montoneros killed 13 policemen as part of their \"Third National Military Campaign\" and vowed to kill at least 3,000 policemen by decade's end.\n\nThe ERP guerrillas and their supporting network of militants came under heavy attack in April 1976, and the Montoneros were forced to come to their assistance with money, weapons and safe houses. On 21 June 1976, the labour relations manager of Swift (an American food processing company), Osvaldo Raúl Trinidad was shot and killed outside his home in the La Plata suburb of Buenos Aires after coming under fire from a carload of masked Peronist guerrillas. On 1 July 1976, a carload of Montoneros shoot and kill Army Sergeant Raul Godofredo Favale in the Ramos Mejía suburb of Buenos Aires. On 2 July 1976 the Montoneros detonated a powerful bomb in the Argentine Federal Police in Buenos Aires, killing 24 and injuring 66 people. On 10 July 1976, policemen surrounded and entered a printing house in the San Andrés suburb of Buenos Aires in an effort to free Vicecomodore Roberto Echegoyen from the Argentine air force, but the alerted guerrillas shot their hostage in the head. On 19 July, Montoneros killed Brigadier-General Carlos Omar Actis (tasked with overseeing the World Cup soccer championships in Argentina in 1978) in the suburb of Wilde in Buenos Aires. On 26 July Montoneros guerrillas operating in the San Justo suburb of Buenos Aires shot and killed an off-duty policeman, Ramón Emilio Reno in the presence of his 13-year-old brother. An Argentine army 1976 report entitled \"Informe Especial: Actividades OPM \"Montoneros\" año 1976\", gave the following surviving Montoneros totals for September 1976: 9,191 members with 991 guerrillas (391 officers and 600 other ranks), 2,700 armed militants and 5,500 sympathisers and active collaborators.\n\nOn 19 August 1976, Carlos Bergometti of the senior management of Fiat in Córdoba, is intercepted on his way to work and killed by Montoneros armed with shotguns in a car. On 2 September 1976, the urban guerrillas kill Lieutenant-Colonel Carlos Heriberto Astudillo in the suburb of Escobar in Buenos Aires. On 7 September 1976, Daniel Andrés Cash of the \"Banco de la Nación Argentina\" is killed on his way to work by a Montoneros guerrilla armed with a shotgun. On 12 September 1976 a Montoneros car bomb destroyed a bus carrying police officers in Rosario, killing nine policemen and a married couple: 56-year-old Oscar Walter Ledesma and 42-year-old Irene Ángela Dib. There were at least 50 wounded. On 17 October a Montoneros bomb blast in an Army Club cinema in downtown Buenos Aires killed 11 and wounded about 50 officers and their families. On 9 November, eleven police officers were wounded when a Montoneros bomb exploded at the police headquarters of La Plata during a meeting of the Buenos Aires police chiefs.\n\nOn 16 November, about 40 Montoneros guerrillas stormed the police station at Arana, 30 miles south of Buenos Aires. Five policemen and one army captain were wounded in the battle. On 15 December, another Montoneros bomb planted in a Defence Ministry movie hall killed at least 14 and injured 30 officers and their families. On 29 December, Montoneros shot and killed Colonel Francisco Castellanos and wounded his driver, Private Alberto Gutiérrez, just a few blocks from the army officer's home in the suburb of Florida in Buenos Aires. The worst year of the insurgency, 1976, saw 156 army officers, NCOs and conscripts and police killed.\n\nBy the time Videla's military junta took power in March 1976, approximately five thousand prisoners were being held in various prisons around Argentina, some with connections and some just guilty by association. In all, 12,000 Argentines were detained during the military dictatorship and became known as the \"detenidos-desaparecidos\", but survived after international pressure forced the military authorities to release them. These prisoners were held throughout the years of the dictatorship, many of them never receiving trials, in prisons such as La Plata, Devoto, Rawson, and Caseros. Justice Minister Ricardo Gil Lavedra, who formed part of the 1985 tribunal judging the military crimes committed during the Dirty War would later go on record saying that \"I sincerely believe that the majority of the victims of the illegal repression were guerrilla militants\".\nTerence Roehrig, who has written \"The prosecution of former military leaders in newly democratic nations: the cases of Argentina, Greece, and South Korea \" (Pg 42, McFarland & Company, 2001) estimates that of the disappeared in Argentina \"at least 10,000 were involved in various ways with the guerrillas\". The Montoneros later admitted losing 5,000 guerrillas killed, and the People's Revolutionary Army (Ejército Revolucionario del Pueblo or ERP) admitted the loss of another 5,000 of their own combatants killed. Some 11,000 Argentines have applied for and received up to US $200,000 each as monetary compensation for the loss of loved ones during the military dictatorship. In late November 2012, it was reported that the government of Cristina Fernández de Kirchner would approve monetary compensation for the families that lost loved ones in the Montoneros attack on the 29th Regiment barracks on 5 October 1975, the first of its kind for military families in Argentina.\n\nOn 24 March 1976 Isabel Perón was ousted and a military junta installed, led by General Jorge Rafael Videla. On 4 April 1976, Montoneros assassinated a naval commander (Jose Guillermo Burgos) and a Chrysler executive (Jorge Ricardo Kenny) and ambushed and killed three policemen in a patrol car. On 26 April 1976, Montoneros guerrillas killed Colonel Abel Héctor Elías Cavagnaro outside his home in Tucumán province. On 27 June 1976, Montoneros guerrillas operating in the city of Rosario ambushed and destroyed two police cars, killing three police officers During the first few months of the military government, more than 70 policemen were killed in leftist guerrilla attacks. On 11 August 1976, urban guerrillas dressed like police officers intercepted and killed army corporal Jorge Antonio Bulacio, with two shots to the head and set fire to his military lorry belonging to the 141st Headquarters Communications Battalion with a Molotov cocktail bomb.\n\nOn 4 January 1977, Montoneros guerrillas shot and killed Private Guillermo Félix Dimitri of the 10th Mechanised Infantry Brigade in a drive-by shooting while he was on roadblock duty outside the Chrysler factory in the San Justo suburb of Buenos Aires. On 27 January, a Montoneros bomb explodes outside a police station in the city of Rosario in Santa Fe Province, killing a policeman (Miguel Angel Bracamonte) and a 15-year-old girl (María Leonor Berardi), an innocent bystander. On 10 February, two police officers (Roque Alipio Farías and Ernesto Olivera) with an anti-explosives unit were fatally wounded trying to deactivate a bomb rigged to a motorbike in Rosario. On 15 February 1977, army corporal Osvaldo Ramón Ríos was killed after his patrol came under fire from a group of Montoneros that had barricaded themselves inside a house in the Ezpeleta suburb of Buenos Aires. That same month, Ireneo Garnica and Alejandro Díaz, both railway workers who had refused to participate in a strike, were killed when Montoneros threw a bomb at them in the suburb of Quilmes in Buenos Aires. On 23 May 1977, the leftist guerrillas in Buenos Aires killed two police officers and a retired inspector as he entered his home.\n\nThe junta redoubled the Dirty War anti-guerrilla campaign. During 1977, in just Buenos Aires alone, 36 police were reported killed in actions involving the remaining urban guerrillas\n\nOn 1 August 1978, a powerful bomb meant to kill Rear Admiral Armando Lambruschini (chairman of the Joint Chiefs) ripped through a nine-story apartment building, killing three civilians and trapping scores beneath the debris.\n\nOn 14 August 1977 Susana Leonor Siver and her partner Marcelo Carlos Reinhold, both Montoneros fighters, were kidnapped from Reinold's mother's home along with a friend by a fifteen-strong naval intelligence team and taken to the ESMA naval detention camp. After a brutal torture session in front of his wife, Marcelo was supposedly \"transferred\" to another camp but nothing was heard of him since. In February 1978, Susana was disappeared by the military authorities soon after giving birth to a blonde girl.\n\nAdriana and Gaspar Tasca, both identified as Montoneros, were taken into custody between 7 and 10 December 1977 and remain unaccounted for. On 6 October 1978, José Pérez Rojo and Patricia Roisinblit, both Montoneros members, were made to disappear. According to different sources, 8,000 to 30,000 people are estimated to have disappeared and died during the military dictatorship that ruled Argentina from 1976 to 1983. Some 12,000 of the missing known as the \"detenidos-desaparecidos\", survived detention and were later compensated for their ordeal. On the other hand, according to an NGO dedicated to defending \"victims of terrorism\", 1,355 people, including members of the police and military, were killed by Montoneros and other left-wing armed movements.\n\nThe commander of the Montoneros, Mario Firmenich, in a radio interview in late 2000 from Spain later stated that \"In a country that has experienced a civil war, everybody has blood on their hands.\" The junta relied on mass illegal arrests, torture, and executions without trial to stifle any political opposition. Some victims were thrown from transport planes into the Atlantic Ocean on what have become famously known as death flights. Others had their corpses left on streets as intimidation of others. The Montoneros admit 5,000 of their guerrillas were killed.\n\nThe Montoneros were effectively finished off by 1977, although their \"Special Forces\" did fight on until 1981. The Montoneros tried to disrupt the World Cup Football Tournament being hosted in Argentina in 1978 by launching a number of bomb attacks. In late 1979, the Montoneros launched a \"strategic counteroffensive\" in Argentina, and the security forces killed more than one hundred of the exiled Montoneros, who had been sent back to Argentina after receiving special forces training in camps in the Middle East. On 14 June 1980, eight Argentine army officers (in cooperation with Peruvian military authorities), kidnapped Noemí Esther Giannetti de Molfino (an active Montoneros collaborator) along with eight Argentine nationals in the Peruvian capital and had them forcefully disappear. In October 2014, the presidency of Cristina Fernández de Kirchner would rename a street in the city of Resistencia, Chaco Province in her memory. Her daughter Marcela along with her partner, Guillermo Amarilla, had both disappeared in 1979 while re-entering Argentina as part of the Montoneros \"strategic counteroffensive\".\n\nAmong the Montoneros killed in this operation were Luis Francisco Goya and María Lourdes Martínez Aranda who after crossing the Chilean border into Argentina were abducted in the city of Mendoza in 1980 and never seen again, with their son Jorge Guillermo being adopted and raised by an army NCO, Luis Alberto Tejada and his wife Raquel Quinteros. During the 1980s a captured Sandinista commando revealed that Montoneros \"Special Forces\" were training Sandinista frogmen and conducting gun runs across the Gulf of Fonseca to the Sandinista allies in El Salvador, FMLN guerrillas.\n\nDuring the Falklands War against Great Britain, the Argentine military conceived the aborted Operation Algeciras, a covert plan to support and convince some Commando-trained Montoneros, by appealing to their patriotism, to sabotage British military facilities in Gibraltar. Argentina's defeat led to the fall of the junta, and Raúl Alfonsín became president in December 1983, thus initiating the democratic transition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47100356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47100356", "title": "Performance of Left Front in Indian General Elections", "text": "Performance of Left Front in Indian General Elections\n\nIndia is a bastion for socialist parties. Almost all the parties profess welfare schemes, freebie culture etc. as a part of electoral politics. Even the ruling Bharatiya janata party, which is considered as a right wing party, gives free groceries to poor people in one of its ruling states as a tactic to fight left wing terrorism. However, some parties have stated their ideology as left oriented and most of them have formed a political block called \"Left Front\" in the states of West /bengal from 1977 and in Tripura also from 1993.\n\n : 12 seats in Assam and 1 in Meghalaya did not vote.\n\n"}
{"id": "36046161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36046161", "title": "President (narrowboat)", "text": "President (narrowboat)\n\nPresident is a historic, steam-powered narrowboat, built in 1909 by Fellows Morton and Clayton (FMC) at their dock at Saltley, Birmingham, England. It is now owned by the Black Country Living Museum, where it is based.\n\"President\" is registered by National Historic Ships as part of the National Historic Fleet.\n\nThe long \"President\" was constructed in 1909 at FMC's company dock in Saltley, and cost £600. She was registered on 23 June that year. Her riveted, wrought iron hull is shaped in the 'Josher' style, named for FMC director Joshua Fellows.\n\nIn 1925, the Ruston, Proctor and Company steam boiler and engine were replaced by a 15 hp Bolinder crude oil engine.\n\nErnest Thomas, a director of FMC, and a Walsall-based coal carrier, acquired the boat in 1946. She was sold to George and Matthews of Wolverhampton in 1948, but that year the UK's canals were nationalised and she finished her working days as part of British Waterways' northern maintenance fleet, on the Trent and Mersey, Macclesfield and Shropshire Union canals, from a base at Northwich.\n\n\"President\" was bought by Nicholas Bostock and Malcolm Braine in 1973, as a derelict hull. They restored the hull and constructed a replica cabin and boiler room. A 1928 Muir and Findley \"Scotch\" return boiler, similar to that originally used, but operating at 100 PSI was acquired and fitted, as was a twin cylinder steam engine, originally used in a Thames launch. The boat returned to service in 1978.\n\n\"President\" was purchased by the Black Country Living Museum in January 1983. The boiler was replaced by a Cochran dryback return flue boiler in 1990. A major refit took place from 2001–2003, including the provision of a new steam engine, pipework and cabin, plus major hull repairs.\n\n\"President\", in FMC livery, normally operates with a butty boat, \"Kildare\".\n\nOn 3 June 2012, President took part in the Thames Diamond Jubilee Pageant in London, representing the Lord-Lieutenant of Staffordshire, having spent three weeks making the journey from Etruria Industrial Museum, Stoke-on-Trent, at an average speed of 3 mph.\n\n"}
{"id": "43717709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43717709", "title": "Republican Police Corps", "text": "Republican Police Corps\n\nThe Republican Police Corps (Italian: \"Corpo di Polizia Repubblicana\") was a police force of the Italian Social Republic during the Italian Civil War.\n\nThe Republican Police Corps was established in December 1944 as part of the Italian Armed Forces, within the territory controlled by the Italian Social Republic. The force was established in order to carry out law enforcement and public security duties alongside the National Republican Guard.\n\nThe Police Corps inherited civilian officials both from the Directorate General of Public Security and from the former Public Security Agents Corps. The organization of the police force in the Fascist-led Republic anticipated that of the Italian State Police established in 1981. The Republican Police Corps was a single government agency, which set it apart from the previous organization (which was upheld in post-war Italy). Previously, the police consisted of civilian police officials and military-organized agents.\n\nAt the end of the war, the Republican Police Corps was reabsorbed into the Directorate General of Public Security. The police activities were not carried uniformly: there were German (particularly Waffen-SS) interferences and power abuses made by political authorities.\n\nThe Republican Police Corps numbered about 20 000, deployed mostly in provincial capital cities; they were framed into 10 Regional Inspectorates and 66 Questure (provincial-level commands), 2 Speciality schools in Padua, escort teams detached at the Ministries, including the \"Public Security Presidential Squad\" (Italian: \"Squadra Presidenziale di Pubblica Sicurezza\") tasked with Benito Mussolini's personal security. There were also operational mobile units, in order to carry out counter-guerrilla warfare and territorial control duties.\n\nThe counter-guerrilla units, belonging to police forces, were:\nEach Questura had a company-sized public order duty; also the Regional Inspectorates had analogous units. Alongside the regular police forces, did exist some \"special police units\", including ill-famed \"Banda Koch\" (formally known as \"Reparto Speciale di Polizia Repubblicana\" or \"Republican Police Special Unit\") active in Rome, \"Banda Carità\" (also known as \"Reparto Servizi Speciali\" or \"Special Services Unit\") active in Florence and Padua, and other so-called \"Repression bands\". Most of these band members were heavy sentenced or extra-judicially killed in the immediate aftermaths of World War II.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3544624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3544624", "title": "Retention period", "text": "Retention period\n\nA retention period (associated with a retention schedule or retention program) is an aspect of records and information management (RIM) and the records life cycle that identifies the duration of time for which the information should be maintained or \"retained,\" irrespective of format (paper, electronic, or other). Retention periods vary with different types of information, based on content and a variety of other factors, including internal organizational need, regulatory requirements for inspection or audit, legal statutes of limitation, involvement in litigation, and taxation and financial reporting needs, as well as other factors as defined by local, regional, state, national, and/or international governing entities. \n\nOnce an applicable retention period has elapsed for a given type or series of information, and all holds/moratoriums have been released, the information is typically destroyed using an approved and effective destruction method, which renders the information completely and irreversibly unusable via any means. Information with historical value beyond its \"usable value\" may be accessioned to the custody of an archive organization for permanent or extended long-term preservation.\n\nDefensible disposition refers to the ability of an identified and applied retention period to effectively provide for the defense of the record, and its eventual destruction or accessioning when scrutinized within a court of law or by other review.\n\nIt is commonly advised by records and information management (RIM) professionals that any and all retention periods applied to organizational information should be reviewed and approved for use by competent legal counsel, which represents the organization, and is familiar with the specific business needs and legal and regulatory requirements of the organization. Additionally, a practical approach to information assessment/classification, proper documentation of the disposition program, strategic review of disposition policy over time for efficacy are required for proper defensible disposition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28179", "title": "Samaritans", "text": "Samaritans\n\nThe Samaritans (; Samaritan Hebrew: , \"\" (), \"Guardians/Keepers/Watchers (of the Torah)\") are an ethnoreligious group of the Levant originating from the Israelites (or Hebrews) of the Ancient Near East.\n\nAncestrally, Samaritans claim descent from the tribe of Ephraim and tribe of Manasseh (two sons of Joseph) as well as from the Levites, who have links to ancient Samaria (now constituting the majority of the territory known as the West Bank) from the period of their entry into Canaan, while some Orthodox Jews suggest that it was from the beginning of the Babylonian captivity up to the Samaritan polity under the rule of Baba Rabba. Samaritans used to include descendants who ascribed to the Benjamin tribe, but this line became extinct in the 1960s. According to Samaritan tradition, the split between them and the Judean-led Southern Israelites began during the biblical time of the priest Eli when the Southern Israelites split off from the central Israelite tradition, as they perceive it.\n\nIn the Talmud, a central post-exilic religious text of Rabbinic Judaism, the Samaritans are called \"Cutheans\" (, \"Kutim\"), referring to the ancient city of Kutha, geographically located in what is today Iraq. In the biblical account, however, Kuthah was one of several cities from which people were brought to Samaria, and they worshiped Nergal. Modern genetics partially support both the claims of the Samaritans and the account in the Hebrew Bible (and Talmud), suggesting that the genealogy of the Samaritans lies in some combination of these two accounts. Genetically, modern Samaritan populations are found to have \"much greater affinity\" genetically to Jews than to neighbouring Palestinian Arabs. This suggests that the Samaritans remained a genetically isolated population.\n\nThe Samaritans are adherents of Samaritanism, a religion closely related to Judaism. Samaritans believe that their worship, which is based on the Samaritan Pentateuch, is the true religion of the ancient Israelites from before the Babylonian captivity, preserved by those who remained in the Land of Israel, as opposed to Judaism, which they see as a related but altered and amended religion, brought back by those returning from the Babylonian Captivity. The Samaritans believe that Mount Gerizim was the original Holy Place of Israel from the time that Joshua conquered Canaan. The major issue between Jews and Samaritans has always been the location of the Chosen Place to worship God: The Temple Mount of Moriah in Jerusalem according to the Jewish faith or Mount Gerizim according to the Samaritan faith.\n\nOnce a large community, the Samaritan population appears to have shrunk significantly in the wake of the bloody suppression of the Samaritan Revolts (mainly in 529 CE and 555 CE) against the Byzantine Empire. Conversion to Christianity under the Byzantines also reduced their numbers. Conversions to Islam took place as well, and by the mid–Middle Ages, Benjamin of Tudela estimated only around 1,900 Samaritans remained in Palestine and Syria. , the population was 796, divided between Qiryat Luza on Mount Gerizim and the city of Holon, just outside Tel Aviv. Most Samaritans in Holon and Qiryat Luza today speak Hebrew and Arabic. For liturgical purposes, Samaritan Hebrew, Samaritan Aramaic, and Arabic are used, all written with the Samaritan alphabet, a variant of the Paleo-Hebrew alphabet, which is distinct from the Hebrew alphabet. Hebrew and later Aramaic were languages in use by the Jewish and Samaritan inhabitants of Judea (the name by which Israel was known during part of the Second Temple era) before the Roman exile.\n\nSamaritans have a stand-alone religious status in Israel, and there are occasional conversions from Judaism to Samaritanism and vice versa due to marriages. While the Israeli Rabbinic authorities consider Samaritanism to be a branch of Judaism, the Chief Rabbinate of Israel requires Samaritans to officially go through a formal conversion to Judaism in order to be recognized as Halakhic Jews. One example is Israeli TV personality Sofi Tsedaka, who formally converted to Rabbinic Judaism at the age of 18. Samaritans with Israeli citizenship are obligated to undertake mandatory service in the Israel Defense Forces, while those with dual Israeli-Palestinian citizenship (living in Qiryat Luza) are generally exempted.\n\nThere is conflict over the etymology of the name for the Samaritans in Hebrew, stemming from the fact that they are referred to differently in different dialects of Hebrew. This has accompanied controversy over whether the Samaritans are named after the geographic area of Samaria (the northern part of what is now globally known as the West Bank), or whether the area received its name from the group. This distinction is controversial in part because different interpretations can be used to justify or deny claims of ancestry over this region, which has been deeply contested in modern times.\n\nIn Samaritan Hebrew, the Samaritans call themselves \"Shamerim\" (שַמֶרִים), which according to the Anchor Bible Dictionary, is derived from the Ancient Hebrew term meaning \"Guardians/Keepers/Watchers [of the Torah/Law]\".\n\nBiblical Hebrew \"Šomerim\" () \"Guardians\" (singular \"Šomer\") comes from the Hebrew Semitic root שמר, which means \"to watch, guard\".\n\nHistorically, Samaria was the key geographical concentration of the Samaritan community. Thus, it may suggest the region of Samaria is named after the Samaritans, rather than the Samaritans being named after the region. In Jewish tradition, however, it is sometimes claimed that Mount Samaria, meaning \"Watch Mountain\", is actually named so because watchers used to watch from those mountains for approaching armies from Egypt in ancient times. In Modern Hebrew, the Samaritans are called , which would appear to simply mean \"inhabitants of Samaria\". This is a politically sensitive distinction.\n\nThat the etymology of the Samaritans' ethnonym in Samaritan Hebrew is derived from \"Guardians/Keepers/Watchers [of the Law/Torah]\", as opposed to Samaritans being named after the region of Samaria, has in history been supported by a number of Christian Church fathers, including Epiphanius of Salamis in the \"Panarion\", Jerome and Eusebius in the \"Chronicon\" and Origen in \"The Commentary on Saint John's Gospel\", and in some Talmudic commentary of Tanhuma on Genesis 31, and Pirke De-Rabbi Eliezer 38, p. 21.\n\nAccording to Samaritan tradition, Mount Gerizim was the original Holy Place of the Israelites from the time that Joshua conquered Canaan and the tribes of Israel settled the land. The reference to Mount Gerizim derives from the biblical story of Moses ordering Joshua to take the Twelve Tribes of Israel to the mountains by Shekhem (Nablus) and place half of the tribes, six in number, on Mount Gerizim, the Mount of the Blessing, and the other half on Mount Ebal, the Mount of the Curse. The two mountains were used to symbolize the significance of the commandments and serve as a warning to whoever disobeyed them (Deut. 11:29; 27:12; Josh. 8:33).\n\nSamaritans claim they are Israelite descendants of the Northern Israelite tribes of Ephraim and Manasseh, who survived the destruction of the Kingdom of Israel (Samaria) by the Assyrians in 722 BCE.\n\nSamaritan historiography places the basic schism from the remaining part of Israel after the tribes of Israel conquered and returned to the land of Canaan, led by Joshua. In its account, after Joshua's death, Eli the priest left the Tabernacle which Moses erected in the desert and established on Mount Gerizim and built another one under his own rule in the hills of Shiloh.\n\nAbu l-Fath, who in the 14th century wrote a major work of Samaritan history, comments on Samaritan origins as follows:\n\nFurther, the \"Samaritan Chronicle Adler\", or New Chronicle, believed to have been composed in the 18th century using earlier chronicles as sources states:\n\nThe emergence of the Samaritans as an ethnic and religious community distinct from other Levant peoples appears to have occurred at some point after the Assyrian conquest of the Israelite Kingdom of Israel in approximately 721 BCE. The records of Sargon II of Assyria indicate that he deported 27,290 inhabitants of the former kingdom.\n\nJewish tradition affirms the Assyrian deportations and replacement of the previous inhabitants by forced resettlement by other peoples but claims a different ethnic origin for the Samaritans. The Talmud accounts for a people called \"Cuthim\" on a number of occasions, mentioning their arrival by the hands of the Assyrians. According to 2 Kings and Josephus, the people of Israel were removed by the king of the Assyrians (Sargon II) to Halah, to Gozan on the Khabur River and to the towns of the Medes. The king of the Assyrians then brought people from Babylon, Cuthah, Avah, Emath, and Sepharvaim to place in Samaria. Because God sent lions among them to kill them, the king of the Assyrians sent one of the priests from Bethel to teach the new settlers about God's ordinances. The eventual result was that the new settlers worshiped both the God of the land and their own gods from the countries from which they came.\n\nThis account is contradicted by the version in Chronicles, where, following Samaria's destruction, King Hezekiah is depicted as endeavouring to draw the Ephraimites and Manassites closer to Judah. Temple repairs at the time of Josiah were financed by money from all \"the remnant of Israel\" in Samaria, including from Manasseh, Ephraim, and Benjamin. Jeremiah likewise speaks of people from Shekhem, Shiloh, and Samaria who brought offerings of frankincense and grain to the House of YHWH. Chronicles makes no mention of an Assyrian resettlement. Yitzakh Magen argues that the version of Chronicles is perhaps closer to the historical truth and that the Assyrian settlement was unsuccessful, a notable Israelite population remained in Samaria, part of which, following the conquest of Judah, fled south and settled there as refugees.\n\nA Midrash (Genesis Rabbah Sect. 94) relates about an encounter between Rabbi Meir and a Samaritan. The story that developed includes the following dialogue:\n\n<poem>Rabbi Meir: What tribe are you from?\nThe Samaritan: From Joseph.\nRabbi Meir: No!\nThe Samaritan: From which one then?\nRabbi Meir: From Issachar.\nThe Samaritan: How do you figure?\nRabbi Meir: For it is written (Gen 46:13): The sons of Issachar: Tola, Puvah, Iob, and Shimron. These are the Samaritans (shamray).</poem>\n\nZertal dates the Assyrian onslaught at 721 BCE to 647 BCE and discusses three waves of imported settlers. He shows that Mesopotamian pottery in Samaritan territory cluster around the lands of Menasheh and that the type of pottery found was produced around 689 BCE. Some date their split with the Jews to the time of Nehemiah, Ezra, and the building of the Second Temple in Jerusalem after the Babylonian exile. Returning exiles considered the Samaritans to be non-Israelites and, thus, not fit for this religious work.\n\nThe \"Encyclopaedia Judaica\" (under \"Samaritans\") summarizes both past and present views on the Samaritans' origins. It says:\n\nFurthermore, to this day the Samaritans claim descent from the tribe of Joseph:\n\nThe Dead Sea scroll 4Q372 hopes that the northern tribes will return to the land of Joseph. The current dwellers in the north are referred to as fools, an enemy people. However, they are not referred to as foreigners. It goes on to say that the Samaritans mocked Jerusalem and built a temple on a high place to provoke Israel.\n\nThe account of the Assyrian kings, which was among the archaeological discoveries in Babylon, differs from the Samaritan account, and confirms much of the Jewish biblical account but may differ in regard to the ethnicity of the foreigners settled in Samaria by the Assyrians. At one point, it is simply said that they were from Arabia, while at another, that they were brought from a number of countries conquered by Sargon II:\n\nAlso,\n\nThe narratives in Genesis about the rivalries among the twelve sons of Jacob are viewed by some as describing tensions between north and south. They were temporarily united in the United Monarchy, but after the death of Solomon, the kingdom split in two, the Kingdom of Israel with its last capital city Samaria and the Kingdom of Judah with its capital Jerusalem.\n\nThe Deuteronomistic history, written in Judah, portrayed Israel as a sinful kingdom, divinely punished for its idolatry and iniquity by being destroyed by the Assyrians in 720 BCE.\n\nThe tensions continued in the postexilic period. The Books of Kings are more inclusive than Ezra–Nehemiah since the ideal is of one Israel with twelve tribes, whereas the Books of Chronicles concentrate on the Kingdom of Judah and ignore the Kingdom of Israel (Samaria).\n\nThe Samaritans claimed that they were the true Israel who were descendants of the \"Ten Lost Tribes\" taken into Assyrian captivity. They had their own sacred precinct on Mount Gerizim and claimed that it was the original sanctuary. Moreover, they claimed that their version of the Pentateuch was the original and that the Jews had a falsified text produced by Ezra during the Babylonian exile.\n\nBoth Jewish and Samaritan religious leaders taught that it was wrong to have any contact with the opposite group, and neither was to enter each other's territories or even to speak to one another. During the New Testament period, the tensions were exploited by Roman authorities as they likewise had done between rival tribal factions elsewhere, and Josephus reports numerous violent confrontations between Jews and Samaritans throughout the first half of the first century.\n\nAccording to historian Lawrence Schiffman, throughout the Persian Period, Judeans and Samaritans fought periodically with one another. The Samaritans were a blend of all kinds of people—made up of Israelites who were not exiled when the Northern Kingdom was destroyed in 722 BCE—of various different nationalities whom the Assyrians had resettled in the area. The Assyrians did this as an attempt to ensure that Israel’s national dream could not come true.\n\nAccording to the Jewish version of events, when the Judean exile ended in 539 BCE and the exiles began returning home from Babylon, Samaritans found their former homeland of the north populated by other people who claimed the land as their own and Jerusalem, their former glorious capital, in ruins. The inhabitants worshiped the Pagan gods, but when the then-sparsely populated areas became infested with dangerous wild beasts, they appealed to the king of Assyria for Israelite priests to instruct them on how to worship the \"God of that country.\" The result was a syncretistic religion, in which national groups worshiped the Israelite God, but they also served their own gods in accordance with the customs of the nations from which they had been brought.\n\nAccording to Chronicles 36:22–23, the Persian emperor, Cyrus the Great (reigned 559–530 BCE), permitted the return of the exiles to their homeland and ordered the rebuilding of the Temple (Zion). The prophet Isaiah identified Cyrus as \"the Lord's Messiah\". The word \"Messiah\" refers to an anointed individual, such as a king or priest.\n\nDuring the First Temple, it was possible for foreigners to help the Jewish people in an informal way until tension grew between the Samaritans and Judeans. This meant that foreigners could physically move into Judean land and abide by its laws and religion.\n\nEzra 4 says that the local inhabitants of the land offered to assist with the building of the new Temple during the time of Zerubbabel, but their offer was rejected. According to Ezra, this rejection precipitated a further interference not only with the rebuilding of the Temple but also with the reconstruction of Jerusalem. The issue surrounding the Samaritans offer to help rebuild the temple was a complicated one that took a while for the Judeans to think over. There had always been a division between the north and the south and this instance perfectly illustrates that. Following Solomon's death, sectionalism formed and inevitably led to the division of the kingdom. This division lead to the Judeans rejecting the offer made by the Samaritans to centralise worship at the Temple.\n\nThe text is not clear on this matter, but one possibility is that these \"people of the land\" were thought of as Samaritans. We do know that Samaritan and Jewish alienation increased and that the Samaritans eventually built their own temple on Mount Gerizim, near Shechem.\n\nThe rebuilding of the Jewish Temple in Jerusalem took several decades. The project was first led by Sheshbazzar (ca. 538 BCE), later by Zerubbabel and Jeshua, and later still by Haggai and Zechariah (520–515 BCE). The work was completed in 515 BCE.\n\nThe term \"Kuthim\" applied by Jews to the Samaritans had clear pejorative connotations, implying that they were interlopers brought in from Kutha in Mesopotamia and rejecting their claim of descent from the ancient Tribes of Israel.\n\nAccording to many scholars, archaeological excavations at Mount Gerizim indicate that a Samaritan temple was built there in the first half of the 5th century BCE. The date of the schism between Samaritans and Jews is unknown, but by the early 4th century BCE the communities seem to have had distinctive practices and communal separation.\n\nAntiochus IV Epiphanes was on the throne of the Seleucid Empire from 175 to 163 BCE. His policy was to Hellenize his entire kingdom and standardize religious observance. According to 1 Maccabees 1:41-50 he proclaimed himself the incarnation of the Greek god Zeus and mandated death to anyone who refused to worship him. In the 2nd century BCE, a series of events led to a revolution by a faction Judeans against Antiochus IV.\n\nThe universal peril led the Samaritans, eager for safety, to repudiate all connection and kinship with the Jews. The request was granted. This was put forth as the final breach between the two groups, being alleged at a much later date in the Christian Bible (John 4:9), \"For Jews have no dealings with Samaritans\"—or not \"alleged\" if the Greek sunchrasthai merely refers to not sharing utensils (NABRE).\n\nAnderson notes that during the reign of Antiochus IV (175–164 BCE):\n\nJosephus Book 12, Chapter 5 quotes the Samaritans as saying:\n\nDuring the Hellenistic period, Samaria was largely divided between a Hellenizing faction based in Samaria (Sebastaea) and a pious faction, led by the High Priest and based largely around Shekhem and the rural areas. Samaria was a largely autonomous state nominally dependent on the Seleucid Empire until around 113 BCE, when the Jewish Hasmonean ruler John Hyrcanus destroyed the Samaritan temple and devastated Samaria.\n\nThe Hellinized Samaritan Temple at Mount Gerizim was destroyed by John Hyrcanus in 113 BC, having existed about 200 years. Only a few stone remnants of it exist today.\n\nUnder the Roman Empire, Samaria became a part of the Herodian Kingdom, Herodian Tetrarchy and with deposition of the Herodian ethnarch Herod Achelaus in early 1st century CE, Samaria became a part of the province of Judaea.\n\nSamaritans appear briefly in the Christian gospels, most notably in the account of the Samaritan woman at the well and the parable of the Good Samaritan. In the latter, it is only the Samaritan who helped the man stripped of clothing, beaten, and left on the road half dead, his Abrahamic covenantal circumcision implicitly evident. The priest and Levite walked past. But the Samaritan helped the naked man regardless of his nakedness (itself religiously offensive to the priest and Levite), his self-evident poverty, or to which Hebrew sect he belonged (which was unclear to any, due to his nakedness).\n\nThe Temple of Gerizim was rebuilt after the Bar Kokhba revolt against the Romans, around 136 CE. A building dated to the second century BCE, the Delos Synagogue, is commonly identified as a Samaritan synagogue, which would make it the oldest known Jewish or Samaritan synagogue. On the other hand, Matassa argues that, although there is evidence of Samaritans on Delos, there is no evidence the building was a synagogue.\n\nMuch of Samaritan liturgy was set by the high priest Baba Rabba in the 4th century.\n\nThere were some Samaritans in the Sasanian Empire, where they served in the army.\n\nThis period is considered as something of a golden age for the Samaritan community, the population thought to number up to a million. \n\nAccording to Samaritan sources, Eastern Roman emperor Zeno (who ruled 474–491 and whom the sources call \"Zait the King of Edom\") persecuted the Samaritans. The Emperor went to Neapolis (Shechem), gathered the elders and asked them to convert; when they refused, Zeno had many Samaritans killed, and re-built the synagogue as a church. Zeno then took for himself Mount Gerizim, where the Samaritans worshiped God, and built several edifices, among whom a tomb for his recently deceased son, on which he put a cross, so that the Samaritans, worshiping God, would prostrate in front of the tomb. Later, in 484, the Samaritans revolted. The rebels attacked Sichem, burned five churches built on Samaritan holy places and cut the finger of bishop Terebinthus, who was officiating the ceremony of Pentecost. They elected a Justa (or Justasa/Justasus) as their king and moved to Caesarea, where a noteworthy Samaritan community lived. Here several Christians were killed and the church of St. Sebastian was destroyed. Justa celebrated the victory with games in the circus. According to John Malalas, the \"dux Palaestinae\" Asclepiades, whose troops were reinforced by the Caesarea-based Arcadiani of Rheges, defeated Justa, killed him and sent his head to Zeno. According to Procopius, Terebinthus went to Zeno to ask for revenge; the Emperor personally went to Samaria to quell the rebellion.\n\nSome modern historians believe that the order of the facts preserved by Samaritan sources should be inverted, as the persecution of Zeno was a consequence of the rebellion rather than its cause, and should have happened after 484, around 489. Zeno rebuilt the church of St. Procopius in Neapolis (Sichem) and the Samaritans were banned from Mount Gerizim, on whose top a signalling tower was built to alert in case of civil unrest.\n\nUnder a charismatic, messianic figure named Julianus ben Sabar (or ben Sahir), the Samaritans launched a war to create their own independent state in 529. With the help of the Ghassanids, Emperor Justinian I crushed the revolt; tens of thousands of Samaritans died or were enslaved. The Samaritan faith, which had previously enjoyed the status of \"religio licita\", was virtually outlawed thereafter by the Christian Byzantine Empire; from a population once at least in the hundreds of thousands, the Samaritan community dwindled to tens of thousands.\n\nThough initially guaranteed religious freedom after the Muslim conquest of Palestine, Samaritan numbers dropped further as a result of massacres and conversions.\n\nBy the time of the early Muslim conquests, apart from Palestine, small dispersed communities of Samaritans were living also in Arab Egypt, Syria, and Iran. Like other non-Muslims in the empire, such as Jews, Samaritans were often considered to be People of the Book. Their minority status was protected by the Muslim rulers, and they had the right to practice their religion, but, as dhimmi, adult males had to pay the jizya or \"protection tax\". This however changed during late Abbasid period, with increasing persecution targeting the Samaritan community and considering them infidels which must convert to Islam. The tradition of men wearing a red tarboosh may go back to an order by the Abbasid Caliph al-Mutawakkil (847-861 CE) that required non-Muslims to be distinguished from Muslims.\n\nDuring the Crusades, Samaritans, like the non-Latin Christian inhabitants of the Kingdom of Jerusalem, were second-class citizens, but they were tolerated and perhaps favored because they were docile and had been mentioned positively in the Christian New Testament.\n\nWhile the majority of the Samaritan population in Damascus was massacred or converted during the reign of the Ottoman Pasha Mardam Beq in the early 17th century, the remainder of the Samaritan community there, in particular, the Danafi family, which is still influential today, moved back to Nablus in the 17th century.\n\nThe Nablus community endured because most of the surviving diaspora returned, and they have maintained a tiny presence there to this day. In 1624, the last Samaritan High Priest of the line of Eleazar son of Aaron died without issue, but according to Samaritan tradition, descendants of Aaron's other son, Ithamar, remained and took over the office.\n\nBy the late Ottoman period, the Samaritan community dwindled to its lowest. In 19th century, with pressure of conversion and persecution from the local rulers and occasional natural disasters, the community fell to just over 100 persons.\n\nThe situation of the Samaritan community improved significantly during the British Mandate of Palestine. At that time, they began to work in the public sector, like many other groups. The censuses of 1922 and 1931 recorded 163 and 182 Samaritans in Palestine, respectively. The majority of them lived in Nablus.\n\nAfter the end of the British Mandate of Palestine and the subsequent establishment of the State of Israel, some of the Samaritans who were living in Jaffa emigrated to Samaria and lived in Nablus. By the late 1950s, around 100 Samaritans left the West Bank for Israel under an agreement with the Jordanian authorities in the West Bank. In 1954, Israeli President Yitzhak Ben-Zvi fostered a Samaritan enclave in Holon, Israel. \n\nUntil the 1990s, most of the Samaritans resided in the West Bank city of (Nablus) below Mount Gerizim. They relocated to the mountain itself near the Israeli village Har Brakha as a result of violence during the First Intifada (1987–1990). Consequently, all that is left of the Samaritan community in Nablus itself is an abandoned synagogue. The Israeli army maintains a presence in the area.\n\nDemographic investigations of the Samaritan community were carried out in the 1960s. Detailed pedigrees of the last 13 generations show that the Samaritans comprise four lineages:\n\nRecently several genetic studies on the Samaritan population were made using haplogroup comparisons as well as wide-genome genetic studies. Of the 12 Samaritan males used in the analysis, 10 (83%) had Y chromosomes belonging to haplogroup J, which includes three of the four Samaritan families. The Joshua-Marhiv family belongs to Haplogroup J-M267 (formerly \"J1\"), while the Danafi and Tsedakah families belong to haplogroup J-M172 (formerly \"J2\"), and can be further distinguished by M67, the derived allele of which has been found in the Danafi family. The only Samaritan family not found in haplogroup J was the Cohen family (Tradition: Tribe of Levi) which was found haplogroup E-M78 (formerly \"E3b1a M78\"). This article predated the change of the classification of haplogroup E3b1-M78 to E3b1a-M78 and the further subdivision of E3b1a-M78 into 6 subclades based on the research of Cruciani, et al.\n\nThe 2004 article on the genetic ancestry of the Samaritans by Shen \"et al.\" concluded from a sample comparing Samaritans to several Jewish populations, all currently living in Israel—representing the Beta Israel, Ashkenazi Jews, Iraqi Jews, Libyan Jews, Moroccan Jews, and Yemenite Jews, as well as Israeli Druze and Palestinians—that \"the principal components analysis suggested a common ancestry of Samaritan and Jewish patrilineages. Most of the former may be traced back to a common ancestor in what is today identified as the paternally inherited Israelite high priesthood (Cohanim) with a common ancestor projected to the time of the Assyrian conquest of the kingdom of Israel.\"\n\nArchaeologists Aharoni, et al., estimated that this \"exile of peoples to and from Israel under the Assyrians\" took place during ca. 734–712 BCE. The authors speculated that when the Assyrians conquered the Northern Kingdom of Israel, resulting in the exile of many of the Israelites, a subgroup of the Israelites that remained in the Land of Israel \"married Assyrian and female exiles relocated from other conquered lands, which was a typical Assyrian policy to obliterate national identities.\" The study goes on to say that \"Such a scenario could explain why Samaritan Y chromosome lineages cluster tightly with Jewish Y lineages, while their mitochondrial lineages are closest to Iraqi Jewish and Israeli Arab mtDNA sequences.\" Non-Jewish Iraqis were not sampled in this study; however, mitochondrial lineages of Jewish communities tend to correlate with their non-Jewish host populations, unlike paternal lineages which almost always correspond to Israelite lineages.\n\n, there were 796 Samaritans, half of whom reside in their modern homes at Kiryat Luza on Mount Gerizim, which is sacred to them, and the rest in the city of Holon, just outside Tel Aviv. There are also four Samaritan families residing in Binyamina-Giv'at Ada, Matan, and Ashdod.\n\nAs a small community physically divided between neighbors in a hostile region, Samaritans have been hesitant to overtly take sides in the Arab–Israeli conflict, fearing that doing so could lead to negative repercussions. While the Samaritan communities in both the West Bank's Nablus and Israeli Holon have assimilated to the surrounding respective cultures, Hebrew has become the primary domestic language for Samaritans. Samaritans who are Israeli citizens are drafted into the military, along with the Jewish citizens of Israel.\n\nRelations of Samaritans with Jewish Israelis and Muslim and Christian Palestinians in neighboring areas have been mixed. Samaritans living in both Israel and in the West Bank enjoy Israeli citizenship. Samaritans in the Palestinian Authority-ruled territories are a minority in the midst of a Muslim majority. They had a reserved seat in the Palestinian Legislative Council in the election of 1996, but they no longer have one. Samaritans living in Samaria have been granted passports by both Israel and the Palestinian Authority.\n\nOne of the biggest problems facing the community today is the issue of continuity. With such a small population, divided into only four families (Cohen, Tsedakah, Danafi, and Marhiv, a fifth family dying out in the twentieth century) and a general refusal to accept converts, there has been a history of genetic disorders within the group due to the small gene pool. To counter this, the Samaritan community has recently agreed that men from the community marry non-Samaritan (primarily, Israeli Jewish) women, provided that the women agree to follow Samaritan religious practices. There is a six-month trial period before officially joining the Samaritan community to see whether this is a commitment that the woman would like to take. This often poses a problem for the women, who are typically less than eager to adopt the strict interpretation of biblical (Levitical) laws regarding menstruation, by which they must live in a separate dwelling during their periods and after childbirth. There have been a few instances of intermarriage. In addition, all marriages within the Samaritan community are first approved by a geneticist at Tel HaShomer Hospital, in order to prevent the spread of genetic disorders. In meetings arranged by \"international marriage agencies\", a small number of Ukrainian women have recently been allowed to marry into the community in an effort to expand the gene pool.\n\nThe Samaritan community in Israel also faces demographic challenges as young people leave the community and convert to Judaism. A notable example is Israeli television presenter Sofi Tsedaka, who has made a documentary about her leaving the community at age 18.\n\nThe head of the community is the Samaritan High Priest, who is selected by age from the priestly family and resides on Mount Gerizim. The current high priest is Aabed-El ben Asher ben Matzliach who assumed the office in 2013.\n\nMuch of the local Palestinian population of Nablus is believed to be descended from Samaritans who had converted to Islam. According to the historian Fayyad Altif, large numbers of Samaritans converted due to persecution under various Muslim rulers, and because the monotheistic nature of Islam made it easy for them to accept it. The Samaritans themselves describe the Ottoman period as the worst period in their modern history, as many Samaritan families were forced to convert to Islam during that time. Even today, certain Nabulsi family names such as Maslamani, Yaish, and Shaksheer among others, are associated with Samaritan ancestry.\n\nFor the Samaritans in particular, the passing of the al-Hakim Edict by the Fatimid Caliphate in 1021, under which all Jews and Christians in the Fatimid ruled southern Levant were ordered to either convert to Islam or leave, along with another notable forced conversion to Islam imposed at the hands of the rebel ibn Firāsa, would contribute to their rapid unprecedented decrease, and ultimately almost complete extinction as a separate religious community. As a result, they had decreased from nearly a million and a half in late Roman (Byzantine) times to 146 people by the end of the Ottoman Era.\n\nIn 1940, the future Israeli president and historian Yitzhak Ben-Zvi wrote an article in which he stated that two thirds of the residents of Nablus and the surrounding neighboring villages were of Samaritan origin. He mentioned the name of several Palestinian Muslim families as having Samaritan origins, including the Buwarda and Kasem families, who protected Samaritans from Muslim persecution in the 1850s. He further claimed that these families had written records testifying to their Samaritan ancestry, which were maintained by their priests and elders.\n\nAccording to \"The Economist\", \"most ethnic Samaritans are now pious Muslims.\"\n\nThe Samaritan religion is based on some of the same books used as the basis of Judaism but differs from the latter. Samaritan religious works include the Samaritan version of the Torah, the Memar Markah, the Samaritan liturgy, and Samaritan law codes and biblical commentaries. Many claim the Samaritans appear to have a text of the Torah as old as the Masoretic Text; scholars have various theories concerning the actual relationships between these three texts.\n\nAccording to Samaritans, it was on Mount Gerizim that Abraham was commanded by God to offer Isaac, his son, as a sacrifice. In both narratives, God then causes the sacrifice to be interrupted, explaining that this was the ultimate test of Abraham's obedience, as a result of which all the world would receive blessing.\n\nThe Torah mentions the place where God chooses to establish His name (Deut 12:5), and Judaism takes this to refer to Jerusalem. However, the Samaritan text speaks of the place where God \"has chosen\" to establish His name, and Samaritans identify it as Mount Gerizim, making it the focus of their spiritual values.\n\nThe legitimacy of the Samaritan temple was attacked by Jewish scholars including Andronicus ben Meshullam.\n\nIn the Christian Bible, the Gospel of John relates an encounter between a Samaritan woman and Jesus in which she says that the mountain was the center of their worship. She poses the question to Jesus when she realizes that he is the Messiah. Jesus affirms the Jewish position, saying \"You (that is, the Samaritans) worship what you do not know\".\n\n\nThe Samaritans have retained an offshoot of the Ancient Hebrew script, a High Priesthood, the slaughtering and eating of lambs on Passover eve, and the celebration of the first month's beginning around springtime as the New Year. Yom Teru`ah (the biblical name for \"Rosh Hashanah\"), at the beginning of Tishrei, is not considered a New Year as it is in Rabbinic Judaism. The Samaritan Pentateuch differs from the Jewish Masoretic Text as well. Some differences are doctrinal: for example, the Samaritan Torah explicitly states that Mount Gerizim is \"the place that God \"has chosen\"\" to establish His name, as opposed to the Jewish Torah that refers to \"the place that God \"chooses\"\". Other differences are minor and seem more or less accidental.\n\nSamaritans refer to themselves as \"Benai Yisrael\" (\"Children of Israel\") which is a term used by all Jewish denominations as a name for the Jewish people as a whole. They, however, do not refer to themselves as \"Yehudim\" (Jews), the standard Hebrew name for Jews.\n\nThe Talmudic attitude expressed in tractate Kutim is that they are to be treated as Jews in matters where their practice coincides with Rabbinic Judaism but as non-Jews where their practice differs. Some claim that since the 19th century, Rabbinic Judaism has regarded the Samaritans as a Jewish sect and the term \"Samaritan Jews\" has been used for them.\n\nSamaritan law is not the same as Halakha (Rabbinic Jewish law). The Samaritans have several groups of religious texts, which correspond to Jewish Halakha. A few examples of such texts are:\n\n\nSamaria or Samaritans are mentioned in the New Testament books of Matthew, Luke, John and Acts. The Gospel of Mark contains no mention of Samaritans or Samaria. The best known reference to the Samaritans is the Parable of the Good Samaritan, found in the Gospel of Luke. The following references are found:\n\nThe rest of the New Testament makes no specific mention of Samaria or Samaritans.\n\n\"The Samaritan News\", a monthly magazine started in 1969, is written in Samaritan Aramaic, Hebrew, Arabic, and English and deals with current and historical issues with which the Samaritan community is concerned. The \"Samaritan Update\" is a bi-monthly e-newsletter for Samaritan Studies.\n\nA documentary film was produced in 2018 entitled \"How to Save a Tribe\" presented by traveller/author Leon McCarron. It focuses on the population crisis among the Samaritans.\n\nSamaritan view\n\n\nJewish view\n\nIndependent views\n\n\nBooks and other information\n\n\nPhotographic links\n\n\nVideo links\n\n"}
{"id": "1754820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1754820", "title": "Sine nomine", "text": "Sine nomine\n\nSine nomine (abbreviated s.n.) is a Latin expression, meaning \"without a name\". It is most commonly used in the contexts of publishing and bibliographical listings such as library catalogs, to signify that the publisher (or distributor, etc.) of a listed work is unknown, or not printed or specified on the work. It is to be compared with \"sine loco\" (\"s.l.\"), \"without a place\", used where the place of publication of a work is unknown or unspecified. While it may sometimes be used to disclose unknown authorship, this is more commonly indicated as \"anon.\" or similar.\n\nThe phrase and its abbreviation have been deprecated in Anglophone cataloging with the adoption of the Resource Description and Access standard, which instead prescribes the unabbreviated English phrase \"publisher not identified\" (or \"distributor not identified\", etc.). \"Sine loco\" is likewise replaced by \"place of publication not identified\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10938238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10938238", "title": "Spoonmaker's Diamond", "text": "Spoonmaker's Diamond\n\nThe Spoonmaker's Diamond () is an 86 carat (17.2g) pear-shaped diamond in the Imperial Treasury exhibitions at the Topkapi Palace Museum and its most valuable single exhibit. It is considered the fourth largest diamond of its kind in the world.\n\nSet in silver, surrounded by a double row of 49 Old-mine cut diamonds (brilliants), it hangs in a glass case on the wall of the third room in Imperial Treasury section of Topkapı's \"Conqueror’s Pavilion\".\n\nThese surrounding separate brilliants give it \"the appearance of a full moon lighting a bright and shining sky amidst the stars\" and are considered to have been commissioned either by Ali Pasha or by Sultan Mahmud II – though this, as all other details of the diamond's origins, is doubtful and disputed.\n\nIt is not known with any certainty how this diamond came to the Topkapı Palace. The museum's records do list a ring stone called the Spoonmaker's Diamond, which is noted as having already belonged to the 17th century Sultan Mehmet IV. However, this stone, along with its gold, is only , which is much smaller than the present Spoonmaker's Diamond. Several mutually exclusive accounts exist regarding the origin of the Spoonmaker's Diamond. They continue to circulate, having become part of the Turkish popular culture and being repeated by tourist guides, and in printed guide books.\n\nAccording to one tale, a poor fisherman in Istanbul near Yenikapi was wandering idly, empty-handed, along the shore when he found a shiny stone among the litter, which he turned over and over, not knowing what it was. After carrying it about in his pocket for a few days, he stopped by the jewelers' market, showing it to the first jeweler he encountered. The jeweler took a casual glance at the stone and appeared uninterested, saying \"It's a piece of glass, take it away if you like, or if you like I'll give you three spoons. You brought it all the way here, at least let it be worth your trouble.\" What was the poor fisherman to do with this piece of glass? What's more, the jeweler had felt sorry for him and was giving three spoons. He said okay and took the spoons, leaving in their place an enormous treasure. It is said that for this reason the diamond came to be named \"The Spoonmaker's Diamond\". Later, the diamond was bought by a vizier on behalf of the Sultan (or, by a less likely version, it was the vizier who dealt directly with the fisherman).\n\nVariant versions, published in some Istanbul Travel guides, describe the original finder as \"a farmer who found it on the ground, and who sold it to a dealer\" from whom it eventually \"came to a Sultan in the 17th century\".\n\nAccording to still other tales, the name is derived from the finder having actually been a spoonmaker, or that the diamond was given this name because it resembled the bowl of a spoon.\n\nA persistent element in several accounts of the diamond's origin links it with the well-known Ali Pasha of Tepelena, who in the late 18th and early 19th Centuries was the Ottoman governor of much of present-day Albania and Greece, and who set himself up as a virtually independent ruler.\n\nThe Spoonmaker's Diamond is asserted to have been in Ali Pasha's possession for a short or long time before arriving at the Ottoman capital. By some versions, it had been at one time worn by Kira Vassiliki, Ali Pasha's favorite wife (or mistress). Its eventual passing into the Sultan's hands might have taken place either during Ali Pasha's lifetime, as part of his complicated dealings with the central Ottoman government, or after his execution, when his possessions were confiscated by the Sultan.\n\nThe following versions, through mutually contradictory, are all compatible with Ali Pasha having had a part in the diamond's history.\n\nA widespread strand of stories link the origins of the Spoonmaker's Diamond with historic events at the town of Preveza, Epirus. In 1797 the town was ceded to France and garrisoned by 700 of Napoleon I's French grenadiers under General La Salchette, together with some 200 armed Prevezian Greek citizens and some 60 Albanian Souliotes. However, in the Battle of Nicopolis of 12–13 October 1798, this force was overwhelmed by 7000 Turkish-Albanian warriors under Ali Pasha and his son Muhtar. \nIn the aftermath, French and Greeks were massacred in Preveza and at Port Salaora on the Ambracian Gulf. Many prisoners who survived the massacre died from the hardships on the road to Ali Pasha's capital at Ioannina, where they were paraded in the streets. Nine French officers were sent on to Sultan Selim III in Istanbul, among them Captain Louis-Auguste Camus de Richemont and another officer named Tissot. Camus remained in captivity until 1801, when he was ransomed and returned to a long and distinguished military career, eventually attaining the rank of general. Onto the above historically attested facts was added an unattested story, according to which Captain Camus was the lover of Napoleon Bonaparte's mother Letizia Ramolino. Therefore, after receiving the bad news, Letizia has been in contact with Sultan Selim III, and immediately sent a \"Big Diamond\" by ship to Preveza as a present for the Sultan, with the expectation of her lover's liberation. The diamond went from Preveza to Ioannina (presumably, in Ali Pasha's custody) and then to Istanbul. An additional detail appearing in some versions is that the diamond had previously belonged to the executed Queen Marie Antoinette.\n\nFinally, Captain Camus and the other French soldiers had been liberated, while the diamond remained in the Topkapi Palace, in possession of Sultan Selim III and his successors.\n\nAs noted, there is no clear historical evidence to either a relationship between Captain Camus and Letizia Ramolino or to her having sent the diamond to the Sultan. It is noteworthy that in some versions Captain Camus is mentioned as having been 47 years old at the time, which would make his age compatible with that of Letizia Ramolino (who was 48 then). However, in fact Camus is known to have been only 27 in 1798. It is also to be noted that at the time Letizia was not yet the Emperor's mother, but simply the mother of a rising young general of Revolutionary France – not so likely to have the power and authority attributed to her in the story.\n\nMuch later Camus, by then a General, published his memoirs in three volumes. In one passage he does mention that during their year in possession of Preveza, the French soldiers carrying out fortification work in a place called Mazoma revealed in their excavations the eastern cemetery of Ancient Nicopolis. There, many treasures came to light (jewelry, lamps, pottery, etc.) all of which were pillaged by the soldiers. However, Camus makes no reference to a big diamond having been among these ancient treasures. In any case, almost all French soldiers were killed in the Battle of Nicopolis and its aftermath, their belongings being looted by the victorious Turkish and Albanian troops.\n\nDespite being historically doubtful, the romantic story is often repeated of Captain Camus having been the lover of Napoleon's mother and of her having sent the Spoonmaker's Diamond to the Sultan in order to ransom him. The account was, for example, included in a recent documentary of Japanese State Television, \"Preveza\" (2004). For his part, Dr. Ilber Ortayli, Director of the TopKapi Museum, participated at the 2nd International Symposium of History of Preveza held at that city in 2009, though speaking mainly of a later period in Ottoman history rather than of the origins of the Spoonmaker's Diamond.\n\nIt has sometimes been suggested that the gem is one and the same as the Pigot Diamond, which was at one time the largest diamond in England but details about it since it left England in the 1820s are unknown. There are various legends about the Pigot Diamond, some of which partially overlap legends about the Spoonmaker's Diamond. Stories about the two diamonds have been related, which is especially convenient since the disposition of the Pigot Diamond and the origin of the Spoonmaker's Diamond are both unresolved.\n\nIn any case, the recorded weight of the Pigot Diamond was just , and it is an oval shape, which would exclude the possibility of its being the Spoonmaker's Diamond.\n\nIn 1798, when Preveza was captured by Ali Pasha, the Ottoman Sultan was Selim III. Selim III (Ottoman Turkish: سليم ثالث Selīm-i sālis) (24 December 1761 – 28 or 29 July 1808) was the reform-minded Sultan of the Ottoman Empire from 1789 to 1807. The Janissaries eventually deposed and imprisoned him, and placed his cousin Mustafa on the throne as Mustafa IV. Selim was killed by a group of assassins subsequently after a Janissary revolt. It is logical, that Reticia Ramolino Bonaparte sent the Diamond in year 1798 or 1799. So, the Sultan who took the \"Gift\" was Selim III. In 1822, when Ali Pasha was killed, the Sultan was Mahmud II from year 1808. Assuming that the above stories contain at least a nucleus of historical truth, and that Ali Pasha was involved in the diamond arriving at TopKapi, one of these was most likely the first Sultan to possess the diamond – though the actual circumstances of its arrival there might have been far more mundane. In case of one of the \"Naive Fisherman\" versions being the right one, the diamond might have arrived much earlier, probably in 1800 – 1801.\n\nThe Spoonmaker's Diamond is the big diamond that is referenced in the film \"Topkapi\", shot in Kavala and Istanbul in 1965 and starring Melina Mercouri and Peter Ustinov. However, the robbers depicted in the film are mainly oriented at stealing another Topkapi treasure, the emerald-encrusted dagger of the earlier Sultan Mahmud I.\nc\n\n"}
{"id": "17973529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17973529", "title": "Stanisław Lorentz", "text": "Stanisław Lorentz\n\nStanisław Lorentz (28 April 1899 – 15 March 1991) was Polish scholar of museology and history of art. Director of the National Museum in Warsaw in the years 1936-1982, deputy to Sejm - the Polish Parliament (1965–69), an UNESCO expert for the protection of monuments and historic sites.\n\nBorn in Radom, moved to Warsaw where studied Philosophy and History of Art at Warsaw University. In 1924 defended doctoral thesis (a monograph of Ephraim Szreger - Warsaw architect of the Age of Enlightenment). He moved to Vilnius in 1929, where he worked as the Art conservation officer in the regions of Vilnius (e.g. protection of the ruins of Peninsula Castle in Trakai) and Novogrodek as well as lectured at the Stefan Batory University in Wilno (then in Poland, now Vilnius in Lithuania). Since 1935 director of the National Museum in Warsaw. With the title of \"Polish head of the museum under the German commissioner\", he remained engaged at the National Museum.\n\nHe was a high-ranking member of the Polish Underground State during the German occupation of Poland, tasked with preserving Polish cultural heritage. After the war in 1945, he resumed his post as the director of the National Museum in Warsaw. In 1982 he was dismissed as a director because of joining the \"Solidarity\" movement. He became an honorary director from 1990 until his death in 1991.\n\nIn 1947 he became a professor at the University of Warsaw, in 1949 a member of Polish Academy of Learning, and in 1952, the Polish Academy of Sciences.\n\nHe was a member of several governmental departments and commissions related to art conservation and was also a deputy to Polish Sejm (1965–1969). He was a UNESCO expert on Polish and international cultural heritage, highly active in the restoration of the Royal Castle, Warsaw and Old Town in Havana, Cuba.\n\nLorentz conducted an intensive correspondence with Lithuanian art conservation specialist Vladas Drėma. The letters were published in 1998.\n"}
{"id": "39202099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39202099", "title": "Stocksy United", "text": "Stocksy United\n\nStocksy United, also referred to as Stocksy or Stocksy United Photography, is a Victoria, British Columbia based platform cooperative that accepts and provides Royalty-free stock photography and stock video. Stocksy uses a curated editing approach to select useful and authentic photos. The co-op differs from other stock photography firms by its stated focus on fair pay and creating sustainable careers for its members.\n\nStocksy United was founded April 20, 2012 and publicly launched on March 25, 2013. It was started by iStockphoto co-founders Bruce Livingstone and Brianna Wettlaufer. At the time of launch, Stocksy had about 220 contributing photographers, with plans to grow to approximately 500 photographers in its first year. Stocksy now has over 900 contributing members, selected from over 10,000 applications. Its revenue doubled from 2014 to 2015, to $7.9 million. For 2015, Stocksy paid out over half of its revenue as royalties to its contributors, totaling $4.3 million. Revenue for 2016 has grown to $10.7 million, with $4.9 million paid out to contributors. Total for the first four years of business, Stocksy has paid out over $20 million to their nearly 1,000 artists during the period from 2013 to 2017. After starting with 6 founding members, Stocksy’s number of staff reached 50 in early 2018.\n\nStocksy is a platform cooperative with three classes of shareholders. Class A is made up of advisors, including CEO Brianna Wettlaufer. Class B is made up of staff, and Class C is the artists who contribute content. Currently there are around 980 photographer shareholders in this category. Each member co-owns the cooperative and has one vote. Each class has at least two directors on the board.\n\nContributing photographers live in 65 countries. After two years of closed membership, Stocksy's Call to Artists is now open. Achieving membership into the cooperative is a single step process whereby interested artists submit a portfolio using Stocksy's Call to Artists webpage. Accepted members license creative content and receive 50% royalties on standard license sales, 75% on extended license sales, and year-end profit sharing in the form of patronage returns. Stocksy paid its artists patronage in the amount of $200,000 following financial year 2015 and $300,000 after 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "34666793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34666793", "title": "Teylers Eerste Genootschap", "text": "Teylers Eerste Genootschap\n\nTeylers Eerste Genootschap (English: \"Teyler's First Society\"), also known as the Godgeleerd Genootschap (\"Theological Society\") is one of the societies founded within the Teylers Stichting as a result of the will of the Dutch 18th-century merchant Pieter Teyler van der Hulst.\n\nThe society was founded in 1778, and the first five members were appointed through Teylers testament: two remonstrant preachers and three Baptist preachers. As stipulated, there had to be six members, and the sixth member was selected by the first five, and was the baptist Frederik Scheltinga. The society had also a sister society, Teylers Tweede Genootschap - which focused on art and science but is organized in a similar way. \n\nThe main activity of the society is to discuss theological issues, and annually announce contests with a relative high prize compared to similar contests by other societies (400 guilders for the 1778 edition). The prizes were awarded by the members of the society and the directors of the foundation jointly.\n\nBecause of the different religious backgrounds of the directors compared to the society members, conflicts over the outcome were not unheard of. This became especially visible in 1803, when Jacob Haafner submitted an essay on the question \"What did the mission bring us so far, and what can be expected\" which answered it in a negative sense - much more liberal than the directors would allow, while the jury members were deeply impressed. It took them two years to work out the differences, and the piece would only be published in 1807.\n\nEspecially in the early years, when the questions were less conservatively focused, the amount of replies was high because of the high prize associated with winning it. Until 1796 the answers had to be submitted in Latin, Dutch or French, after 1796 also English and German were allowed. The name of the submitting author was only available in a sealed envelope, which was linked to the piece and would only be opened in case the piece would win the contest. All other envelopes were burned unopened - and their replies archived anonymously. The winner receives a silver or gold medal or a sum of money and its submission was published in the Verhandelingen van Teylers Eerste Genootschap (\"Proceedings of Teylers First Society\"). \n\nThe most recent contest is from 2011, asking for \"research on the formation and/or change of the Dutch perception of Islam in the years 1990-2010\" which will run through 2014. A contest typically runs for three years at a time - hence multiple contest can be active at any given moment. \n\nThe society meets annually in the \"Kleine Herenkamer\" (Small Boardroom) in the Teylers Fundatiehuis (Teylers Foundation House) next to the Teylers Museum.\n\nThe members of the society are nowadays well known academics in the field of Christianity working at various universities throughout the Netherlands - (assistant) professors in different relevant fields such as \"history of Christianity\" and \"the New Testament\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "841836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=841836", "title": "The Engineer's and Mechanic's Encyclopaedia", "text": "The Engineer's and Mechanic's Encyclopaedia\n\nThe Engineer's and Mechanic's Encyclopaedia is a book edited by Luke Hebert, a Birmingham patent agent and journalist, and published by Thomas Kelly of Paternoster Row. The first edition appeared in 1836 and 1837. The second edition appeared in 1849. It was in two octavo volumes (Vol. 1, 796 pp and vol. 2, 928 pp), illustrated with woodcuts in the text and a number of full page engravings.\n\nMany of the articles relate to specific processes and machines, and overall the encyclopaedia is not over-concerned with the theoretical aspects. Of particular value are the monograph-length accounts of the progress of rail transport and steamboats.\n\n"}
{"id": "16285412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16285412", "title": "The Meadows of Gold", "text": "The Meadows of Gold\n\nMeadows of Gold and Mines of Gems (in ) is an historical account in Arabic of the beginning of the world starting with Adam and Eve up to and through the late Abbasid Caliphate by medieval Baghdadi historian Masudi (in Arabic المسعودي).\n\nOne English version is the abridged \"The Meadows of Gold: The Abbasids\", translated and edited by Paul Lunde and Caroline Stone.\nAn 1841 translation of volume I, by Aloys Sprenger, also exists and is available at Princeton's Firestone Library.\n\nA first version of the book was allegedly completed in the year 947 AD but the author spent most of his life adding and editing the work as well.\n\nThe first European version of \"The Meadows of Gold\" was published in both French and Arabic between 1861 and 1877 by the Societe Asiatique of Paris by Barbier de Meynard and Pavet de Courteille. For over 100 years this version was the standard version used by Western scholars until Charles Pellat published a French revision between 1966 and 1974. This revision was published by the Universite Libanaise in Beirut and consisted of five volumes.\n\nVersions of the source text by Mas'udi have been published in Arabic for hundreds of years, mainly from presses operating in Egypt and Lebanon.\n\nOne English version was published in 1989 and was translated and edited by Paul Lunde and Caroline Stone. According to this edition's introduction, their English translation is heavily edited and contains only a fragment of the original manuscript due to the editors' own personal research interests and focuses almost exclusively on the Abbasid history of Mas'udi. Their introduction also outlines how the editors relied mainly on the Pellat revision in French and are therefore mainly working from the French translation with the Arabic source text as a background guide.\n\nAnother English version was published in 1841 by Aloys Sprenger, which includes a full translation of the first volume and extensive footnotes.\n\nHistorian Hugh N. Kennedy calls the book \"Probably the best introduction to the Arabic historical tradition for the non-specialist.\"\n\nWritten in the \"new style\" of historical writing of al-Dinawari and al-Ya'qubi, Meadows of Gold is composed in a format that contains both historically documented facts, hadiths or sayings from reliable sources and stories, anecdotes, poetry and jokes that the author had heard or had read elsewhere. Due to its reliance on and references to Islam this style of history writing makes up an example of what constitutes Islamic Historiography in general.\n\nMasudi also contributed an important role in this historicity by adding the importance of eye-witnessing a place or event in order to strengthen its veracity. Khalidi states that \"Mas'udi's own observations form a valuable part of his work.\" And that \"In contrast to Tabari, who provides little or no information on the lands and peoples of his own day, Mas'udi often corroborated or rejected geographical and other data acquired second-hand.\"\n\nIn addition the book is unique in medieval Islamic history for its interest in other cultures and religions as scientific and cultural curiosities. According to Lunde & Stone's introduction, this outlook is a major \"characteristic that distinguishes Mas'udi from other Muslim historians.\"\n\nThe contents of the Lunde & Stone version are broken into small vignettes which take up less than a full page of text in most cases. In addition are several pages of poetry.\n\nThe Lunde & Stone edition focuses primarily on the Abbasid period in modern-day Iraq and begins with a story involving the Caliph Al-Mansur and ends with the reign of Al-Muti (Abu al-Qasim al-Fadl bin Ja'far al-Muqtadir Muti'li-Llah).\n\nSome notable sections include several stories involving the various Caliphs and their interactions with commoners like \"Mahdi and the Bedouin\" (37) in which the Caliph is served a humble meal by a passing Bedouin who in turn is rewarded with a large monetary reward.\n\nA large portion of the English text is dedicated to stories involving the Caliph Harun Al-Rashid and his Barmakid advisors. These stories from Masudi are key elements in several English language historical non-fiction books about Harun Al-Rashid including Hugh Kennedy's \"When Baghdad Ruled the Muslim World\", André Clot's \"Harun al-Rashid and the World of The Thousand and One Nights\" and H. St. John Philby's \"Harun Al-Rashid\".\n\nAnother significant portion of the text involves the civil war between Caliph Al-Amin at Baghdad and his half-brother al-Ma'mun, who defeated Amin and became Caliph of the Abbasid Caliphate. The text spends a considerable amount of pages relaying several lengthy poems about the horrors of civil war that occurred in the city of Baghdad at the time.\n\nWhile the French version has been a key historical text for over a century, the newer English version has received mixed reviews.\n\n\"The British Journal of Middle Eastern Studies\"' review suggests that although the English version leaves out several passages of Pellat's edited version the book still retains important historical text and the passages omitted \"are digressions from the main story and interrupt its flow.\"\n\n\"The Journal of the American Oriental Society\", however, takes issue with the fact that the English version relied heavily on the French edited version (and not the entire French or Arabic version) and that the editing of the text cut out parts that were \"no less historical import than the ones included.\"\nThis review also is critical of the English version's use of vignette style segments versus the style of Mas'udi whose original work is not cut into small pieces but rather is written in full pages without apparent breaks or chapters.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44598935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44598935", "title": "The New York Public Library Desk Reference", "text": "The New York Public Library Desk Reference\n\nThe New York Public Library Desk Reference, in its fourth edition as of 2014, is a one volume general reference work. According to the OCLC (2005 report) it is one of the most widely held general reference works by contributing libraries, ranked after multi-volume works The World Book Encyclopedia, Encyclopedia Americana and Collier's Encyclopedia, but slightly ahead of the New Encyclopædia Britannica.\n"}
{"id": "44511021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44511021", "title": "The Oxford Companion to American Literature", "text": "The Oxford Companion to American Literature\n\nThe Oxford Companion to American Literature by James D. Hart is one of the Oxford Companions series published by the Oxford University Press, Oxford and New York. \"The Concise Oxford Companion to American Literature\", by James D. Hart (an abridged version of the 5th ed., 1983) was published in 1986.\n\n"}
{"id": "28379050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28379050", "title": "The Recording of the Israel Declaration of Independence", "text": "The Recording of the Israel Declaration of Independence\n\nThe Recording of the Israel Declaration of Independence was a complete recording of the declaration using a direct to disc recording technique on acetate discs using special cutting machines. Neither the original records nor their duplicates were demanded by Israel state authorities and to date they cannot be located, except for one original acetate disc. However, copies of the recording itself survived on different media.\n\n\"Tslil - Palestine Electrical Recording Company Ltd.\" was founded in early 1947 in Tel Aviv and specialized in recording and marketing of commercial records of music of Israel and classical music. \"Tslil\" records were also played by \"Kol Yerushalayim\" (The Voice of Jerusalem), the Hebrew station of the Palestine Broadcasting Service of the British Mandate administration.\n\nIn April 1948, a few weeks prior to the Declaration of Independence, Lucien Salzman of \"Tslil\" recorded the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra playing the \"Hatikvah\" national anthem at the \"Ohel Shem\" hall in Tel Aviv, a recording that was later used for many years by \"Kol Yisrael\" (The Voice of Israel), notably as the closing tone of the broadcasts at midnight, as well as by Israel embassies all over the world.\n\nThe declaration ceremony was held at the Tel Aviv Museum on Friday, 14 May 1948 at 16:00 and the recording was performed by Lucien Salzman from \"Tslil - Israeli Electrical Recording Company Ltd.\". The official invitation to perform the recording was issued by Karel Salmon from Kol Yisrael on behalf of Mendel Mahler-Kalkstein, the Secretary-General of the Palestine Philharmonic Orchestra, that was invited to play the Hatikvah national anthem by an undersized ensemble of 30 of its players. Presenting a certificate issued by the provisional government, Minhelet HaAm, Lucien Salzman entered the museum building with two assistants, his nephew Giora Hanoch and Fedor Shanon. They installed the two disc cutting machines and the amplifiers in a small room on the second floor and placed two identical microphones (model Shure 701D) on the presidential table. One of the microphones was wrapped with a white ribbon bearing the Tslil company name in Hebrew (צליל).\n\nThe direct to disc recording was made on double-sided 30-cm discs turning at 78 rpm that allowed a recording time of about 3 minutes only. At the end of the recording of a disc on one cutting machine the recording was switched to another disc on the other machine and vice versa. Therefore, the recording of the entire 33-minute ceremony yielded 11 sides on 6 records. The recording ends with the \"Hatikvah\" national anthem played by the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra followed by the concluding statement of David Ben Gurion: \"The State of Israel is established! This meeting is adjourned!\"\n\nThe \"Tslil\" recording company handed over to the Israeli Philharmonic Orchestra (IPO) the original records as well as several duplicate sets thereof. The IPO tried to convince the then leading record companies in the United States, Columbia and Victor, in the commercial value of the historic recording, apparently to no avail. After \"Tslil\" ceased its operation in 1951 Lucien Salzman kept one duplicate set at his home.\n\nOnly in 1981, during a research conducted for the \"Pillar of Fire\" documentary television series, the records reemerged and the recording was transferred to 1/4-inch magnetic tapes at the \"Kol Yisrael\" studio. Several segments of the recording were used in the last episode of the series. In the late 1980s Lucien Salzman donated the records to the Israel Broadcasting Authority but the whereabouts of these records is still unknown. Only one of the six original records survived and is in the archives of the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra (see picture).\n\nIn addition to the recording of Lucien Salzman from \"Tslil\" there is also a recording of the live radio broadcast of the ceremony transmitted by \"Kol Yisrael\". This recording begins with the words (in Hebrew): \"Here is the Voice of Israel! Here is the Voice of Israel!\" in the voice of Mordechai Zlotnik (later Avida) who together with his colleague Rita Persits broadcast the ceremony.\nTwo double-sided 33⅓ rpm LP records with the recording of the radio broadcast are at the Israel State Archive but their origins or the identity of those who performed the recording are not known. At the Israel State Archive there is also a CD (Compact Disc) with exactly the same recording of the radio broadcast of the ceremony, related to Hans and Ralf Hellinger from the \"Radio Doctor\" company in Tel Aviv.\n\n"}
{"id": "13532475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13532475", "title": "Tunggal panaluan", "text": "Tunggal panaluan\n\nA tunggal panaluan is a magic staff used by shamans of the Batak people, who live in the highlands of North Sumatra, Indonesia. Traditionally the tunggal panaluan is made from wood of a specific tree and carved with human figures and embellished with horsehair and cooked human brain, both procured from sacrificial victims.\n\nTunggal panaluan was carved out of the wood of Cassia javanica, the only tree from which the tunggal panaluan can be created. The tree occupies a central place in the ancestral myth of the Batak people, as well as the figures depicted on the tunggal panaluan. Tunggal panaluan was carved with human and animal figures arranged above each other. The human figure refer to a Batak myth that tells of incestuous twins. Animals found depicted in the tunggal panaluan include snakes, dragons, geckos and water buffaloes. Another type of magic staff, known as the tunggal malehat, depicts a human riding either a horse or a mythical beast.\n\nThe tunggal panaluan was used in ceremonies to ward off disaster and illness as well as to cause them. To imbue the staff with magic, first the datu (shaman) has to create a hole in the staff in which a magical substance known as the pupuk is inserted. Pupuk's creation involved the putrefied remain of the mutilated body of a murdered child.\n\nTungkot malehat is another variation of tunggal panaluan. Most tungkot malehat are manufactured and used by the Karo instead of the Toba. They have more simplistic design than the tunggal panaluan. Tunggal panaluan are elaborately carved all the way until the bottom of the staff, whereas the body of the tungkot malehat are left plain and uncarved. The only carved part of the tungkot malehat is its top part, usually carved with a human figure riding a singa or a horse. It is generally accepted that the tungkot malehat is a more recent development of the tunggal panaluan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12181447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12181447", "title": "UK Film Council Completion Fund", "text": "UK Film Council Completion Fund\n\nThe UK Film Council Completion Fund is a major UK short film funding awards scheme, funded by the UK Film Council, and managed by Maya Vision International. Originally a £50,000 fund awarded on an annual basis to a slate of 8-10 film, from 2008 onwards\nthe fund has been increased to £70,000 to be awarded on a bi-annual basis to around 14 films of the most promising UK short films \"that have already been shot but lack the funds to finish\".\n\nAt the scheme's launch in 2002, the 2003 slate of films were co-funded by Film4 Productions' Filmfour Lab and screened on Channel 4, Film 4 and a selection are still available on the Film 4 website. After the winding down of Film Four Ltd as a separate entity and the scaling down and re-integration of film production into Channel 4 drama in 2002, the UK Film Council took over sole funding of the completion fund. Since 2004, the finished films have played at the Edinburgh International Film Festival in a section called First Past the Post and also have a central London showcase at the Curzon Mayfair. A selection of the films are available to screen on the BBC Film Network.\n\nThe UK Film Council takes delivery of a Digibeta copy of each film for preservation in its national archive in Sheffield and DVD copies are stored by the Edinburgh International Film Festival as part of the Film UK Guide to British Film archive.\n\nCompletion fund films have been official selections at numerous film festivals worldwide, gathering over 150 major international awards, and many more nominations, including:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nLondon Screening: Curzon Soho, Monday 7 April 2003 at 6pm\n\n"}
{"id": "56174881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56174881", "title": "Vishwaguru", "text": "Vishwaguru\n\nVishwaguru is a 2017 Malayalam-language Indian biographical film directed by Vijeesh Mani and co-produced with A. V. Anoop. It is based on the life of Narayana Guru, the film features Purushothaman Kainakkari, Gandhiyan Chacha Sivarajan, Kaladharan and Kalanilayam Ramachandran in lead roles.\n\nThe film was made and released in 51 hours and 2 minutes following a \"script to screen\" rule, thus creating a new Guinness World Records. The film also received Asia Book of Records certification as well.\n\nVishwaguru is based on the life of Narayana Guru, a social reformer of India, who led a reform movement in Kerala, rejected casteism, and promoted new values of spiritual freedom and social equality.\n\n\nVishwaguru broke the record set by Sri Lankan film \"Mangala Gamana\", that held the Guinness World Records and Asia Book of Records for the fastest film produced (script to screen). The film made by Nandana Hewapanna was released within 71 hours and 19 minutes in Colombo, Sri Lanka. The then award winning effort happened from 22-25 May 2014.\n"}
