{"id": "19163413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19163413", "title": "1908 in Austria", "text": "1908 in Austria\n\nThe following lists events that happened during 1908 in Austria.\n\n\nDecember 31 -Simon Wiesenthal, Nazi hunter\n\n"}
{"id": "13758828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13758828", "title": "1972 in the European Communities", "text": "1972 in the European Communities\n\n22 January: Signing of the treaties of accession by Denmark, United Kingdom, Republic of Ireland and Norway. While Norwegian voters later in the year rejected the treaty in a referendum the three other states joined the EC on 1 January 1973.\n\nEU starts.\n"}
{"id": "33685589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33685589", "title": "19th Special Operations Group \"Maderal Oleaga\"", "text": "19th Special Operations Group \"Maderal Oleaga\"\n\nThe 19th Special Operations Group \"Caballero Legionario Maderal Oleaga\" (Spanish:\"Grupo de Operaciones Especiales \"Caballero Legionario Maderal Oleaga\" XIX\"), GOE XIX, is one of the 4 currently existing Special Operations Groups and so is subordinated to the Special Operations Command. It was the former Special Forces unit of the Spanish Legion and was known as Bandera de Operaciones Especiales de la Legión (\"Legion Special Operations Bandera (battalion)\"), BOEL.\n\nThe members of this unit received training in:\n\n\nIn 2002 the BOEL was renamed Grupo de Operaciones Especiales \"Caballero Legionario Maderal Oleaga\" XIX and was moved to Alicante as unit of the Special Operations Command of the Spanish Army. GOE XIX currently accepts applicants from other light infantry units and no longer forms part of the Legion.\n\n"}
{"id": "58838126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58838126", "title": "African Union High Representative for Infrastructure Development", "text": "African Union High Representative for Infrastructure Development\n\nThe African Union High Representative for Infrastructure Development post was created in October 2018 by the African Union Commission Chair Moussa Faki \nThe first and current High Representative is Raila Odinga, Leader of the Opposition and former Prime Minister of Kenya (2008-2013), who was appointed on 20 October 2018 by the Chairperson of the African Union Commission. Prior to this appointment, the Directorate of Trade and Industry was headed by Elisabeth Tankeu.\n\nThe High Representative is tasked with working to support and strengthen the efforts of the Commission’s relevant Departments and those of the Planning and Coordinating Agency of the New Partnership for Africa’s Developpement (NEPAD), within the framework of the Program for Infrastructure Development in Africa (PIDA), which was endorsed by the Assembly of the Union in January 2012.\n\nThe mandate includes mobilizing further political support from Member States and the Regional Economic Communities (RECs) and facilitating greater ownership by all concerned stakeholders on the continent. He will also support the Commission and NEPAD initiatives to encourage increased commitment from development partners.\n\nIn the discharge of his mandate, and building on the work and leadership of the PIDA Presidential Infrastructure Champion Initiative (PICI), the High Representative will pay particular attention to the missing links along the transnational highway corridors identified as part of the Trans-African Highways Network, with a view to facilitating their development and modernization. He will also focus on the continental high-speed train, which is one of the flagship projects of the First Ten-Year Implementation Plan of Agenda 2063, in the context of the relevant African Union decisions. He will interact with the current Champions of related African Union initiatives and seek their guidance, to ensure the required synergy and coherence.\n\nThe High Representative is appointed by the Chairperson of the African Union Commission.\n"}
{"id": "42298959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42298959", "title": "Alpkäse", "text": "Alpkäse\n\nAlpkäse is an Italian cheese made with cow milk in Trentino Alto Adige.\n\nThe origin of this type of cheese is associated with the Alps located in Germany/Austria. Emmental in nature like its cousin the Swiss cheese, it is featured with tiny holes known as 'teardrops\". Similar to the majority of hard/semi-hard cheese, the more it is matured, the more flavour it develops. The alpkäse cheese from Trentino Alto Adige is made from cow milk. Some of those cheese varieties, exceeding 60 products, native to that place include Asiago Antico Maso Rosso, Arunda, Asiago d'allevo, Asiago Mezzano cheese and Asiago Pressato Trentino cheese.\n\nIn Austria, Alpkäse refers to a hard cheese that resembles Bergkäse in taste and texture. The difference between these cheeses lies in the period and place of production. Bergkäse is produced in the low mountain range (between 600 and 1500 m) and year-round, so even in winter, when the animals are in the stables and fed with hay. Alpkäse, on the other hand, is only produced in the summer between May and September on high mountain meadows above 1500 m (Alpine pastures or alps), where the animals graze Alpine herbs. Therefore, Alpkäse is a seasonal product. An example of Austrian Alpkäse is the \"Vorarlberger Alpkäse\" or \"Tiroler Alpkäse\" both of which have been registered as PDO. \n\nThe production of Alpkäse is closely tied to the traditional farming practice of Alpine transhumance. \n\n"}
{"id": "12823930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12823930", "title": "Antena 1 (Portugal)", "text": "Antena 1 (Portugal)\n\nAntena 1 is one of the three national radio channels produced by the Portuguese public broadcasting entity Rádio e Televisão de Portugal, the others being Antena 2 and Antena 3.\n\nAntena 1 has a generalist programming policy focusing mainly on news, current affairs and sport, as well as the discussion of contemporary social issues, with the musical accent on Portuguese popular music.\n\nThe Macanese radio and television company Teledifusão de Macau relays Antena 1's programmes overnight between 20.00 and 7.00 (8.00 on Saturdays and Sundays) Beijing Time (UTC+8).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3061661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3061661", "title": "Archaeological Society of Athens", "text": "Archaeological Society of Athens\n\nThe Archaeological Society of Athens (Greek: Εν Αθήναις Αρχαιολογική Εταιρεία) is an independent learned society. Also termed the Greek Archaeological Society, it was founded in 1837, just a few years after the establishment of the modern Greek State, with the aim of encouraging archaeological excavations, maintenance, care and exhibition of antiquities in Greece.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49273455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49273455", "title": "Bogs &amp; Voigt", "text": "Bogs &amp; Voigt\n\nBogs & Voigt was a piano manufacturer in Berlin, Germany.\n\nIt was founded 1905 and existed up to 1939. The fabrication was located in Warschauerstraße 70 and Boxhagenerstraße 16a in Berlin. The owners Paul Richard Bogs (1871-1949) and Adolf Ernst Voigt were awarded an imperial and royal warrant of appointment to the courts of Austria-Hungary and Spain. Voigt left the company in 1913, Bogs went on until the company was closed in 1939. The company built about 66.000 instruments.\n"}
{"id": "2282141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2282141", "title": "Byrsa", "text": "Byrsa\n\nByrsa was a walled citadel above the Phoenician harbour in ancient Carthage, Tunisia, as well as the name of the hill it rested on.\n\nIn Virgil's account of Dido's founding of Carthage, when Dido and her party were encamped at Byrsa, the local Berber chieftain offered them as much land as could be covered with a single oxhide. Therefore, Dido cut an oxhide into tiny strips and set them on the ground end to end until she had completely encircled the hilltop of Byrsa (, \"oxhide\").\n\nThe citadel dominated the city below and formed the principal military installation of Carthage. Its name appeared on Carthaginian currency under the form ().\n\nIt was besieged by Scipio Aemilianus Africanus in the Third Punic War when the city was defeated and destroyed in 146. The Byrsa citadel was the seat of the proconsul of Africa within the Roman Empire. In 439, Geiseric took possession of Carthage. The Vandal kings ruled North Africa from the Byrsa until the Byzantine emperor Justinian reconquered the province in 533. \n\nStLouis Cathedral was built on Byrsa Hill starting in 1884, atop an ancient temple. Today, it serves as a cultural centre. Byrsa Hill itself is part of the archaeological site of Carthage. In addition to a cathedral monument, the Carthage National Museum was erected atop it.\n\nIn 1994, the body of an ancient Carthaginian individual was excavated from a 2500-year-old Punic tomb in Byrsa Hill. In 2016, he was found to belong to the rare U5b2c1 maternal haplogroup. The Young Man of Byrsa specimen dates from the late 6th century, and his lineage is believed to represent early gene flow from Iberia to the Maghreb.\n"}
{"id": "9338463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9338463", "title": "Celsitani", "text": "Celsitani\n\nThe Celsitani were an ancient people of Sardinia, noted by Ptolemy (III, 3). They dwelt south of the Rucensi and north of the Scapitani and the Siculensi.\n\n"}
{"id": "2608303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2608303", "title": "Clare FM", "text": "Clare FM\n\nClare FM is an Irish radio station which broadcasts to County Clare and the surrounding areas.\n\nThe station has won many Irish radio awards. Clare FM broadcasts on frequencies 95 - 96FM including 95.2, 95.5, 95.9, 96.4 & 96.6. In the past it also provided an opt-out service \"Clare FM2\" on its 95.9 & 96.6 transmitter for the east of Clare.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19974430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19974430", "title": "Cloth mill Offermann", "text": "Cloth mill Offermann\n\nThe cloth mill Offermann was a brass factory of the 18th century in the German city of Stolberg. Later it became a cloth mill demonstrating the change of industrial development in the city. Currently it is used as an apartment building.\n\nThe building was founded in the 18th century as a brass factory. Together with other brass factories like the Eagle-Pharmacy or the factory Bauschenberg it flourished for many years. \n\nAs soon as the importance of the brass industry decreased, the building was sold to \"Johann Paul Offermann\", a clothier of the nearby village of Imgenbroich. For nearly 60 years the building was used for the production of cloth despite competition of the neighbouring cloth mill \"Krone\".\n\nAt the beginning of the 19th century the building was sold and partly used as a restaurant. Some parts of the building were decrepit. \n\nAt the end of the 20th century the whole building was restored. Currently it is used as an apartment building.\n\n"}
{"id": "13514504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13514504", "title": "Commander-in-Chief of the Malaysian Armed Forces", "text": "Commander-in-Chief of the Malaysian Armed Forces\n\nThe Supreme Commander or Commander-in-Chief (, Jawi: ڤمرينته ترتيڠݢي) of the Malaysian Armed Forces is the highest-ranking office in the command structure of the Malaysian military. The office dates to the 1957 creation of the Malay federation. Its current role, duties and powers are regulated by the Constitution of Malaysia and the Federal Armed Forces Act. \n\nThe Malaysian Constitution establishes that the office of Supreme Commander is attached to the person of the Federal Head of State, Yang di-Pertuan Agong:\nThe Federal Armed Forces Act was passed by the Federal Parliament in order to consolidate in one law all the regulations governing the three services ( Army, Navy and Air Force ), it establishes the function and duties of the Federal Head of State in his capacity as Supreme Commander. The Act assigns the following duties to the Supreme Commander:\n"}
{"id": "15334267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15334267", "title": "Cumbria and Lancashire North (European Parliament constituency)", "text": "Cumbria and Lancashire North (European Parliament constituency)\n\nPrior to its uniform adoption of proportional representation in 1999, the United Kingdom used first-past-the-post for the European elections in England, Scotland and Wales. The European Parliament constituencies used under that system were smaller than the later regional constituencies and only had one Member of the European Parliament each. The constituency of Cumbria and Lancashire North was one of them.\n\nWhen it was created in England in 1984, it consisted of the Westminster Parliament constituencies of Barrow and Furness, Carlisle, Copeland, Lancaster, Morecambe and Lunesdale, Penrith and the Border, Westmorland and Lonsdale, Workington, and Wyre. In 1994, Wyre constituency was transferred to Lancashire Central, but otherwise the constituency's composition remained the same until its abolition in 1999.\n\n"}
{"id": "45472943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45472943", "title": "Det rår vi inte för", "text": "Det rår vi inte för\n\n\"Det rår vi inte för\" is a song by Swedish rapper, songwriter and actor of Iranian origin Behrang Miri featuring the vocals of Victor Crone. The song is taking part in Melodifestivalen 2015 and qualified to Andra Chansen (Second Chance) round through the first semi-final on 7 February 2015. where it was put in a duel with Samir & Viktor song \"Groupie\", but failed to move on to the finals of the competition.\n"}
{"id": "1411925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1411925", "title": "Development aid", "text": "Development aid\n\nDevelopment aid or development cooperation (also development assistance, technical assistance, international aid, overseas aid, official development assistance (ODA), or foreign aid) is financial aid given by governments and other agencies to support the economic, environmental, social, and political development of developing countries. It is distinguished from humanitarian aid by focusing on alleviating poverty in the long term, rather than a short term response.\n\nThe term development cooperation, which is used, for example, by the World Health Organization (WHO), is used to express the idea that a partnership should exist between donor and recipient, rather than the traditional situation in which the relationship was dominated by the wealth and specialised knowledge of one side. Most development aid comes from the Western industrialised countries but some poorer countries also contribute aid.\n\nAid may be bilateral: given from one country directly to another; or it may be multilateral: given by the donor country to an international organisation such as the World Bank or the United Nations Agencies (UNDP, UNICEF, UNAIDS, etc.) which then distributes it among the developing countries. The proportion is currently about 70% bilateral 30% multilateral.\n\nAbout 80-85% of developmental aid comes from government sources as official development assistance (ODA). The remaining 15-20% comes from private organisations such as \"non-governmental organisations\" (NGOs), foundations and other development charities (e.g., Oxfam). In addition, remittances received from migrants working or living in diaspora form a significant amount of international transfer.\n\nSome governments also include military assistance in the notion \"foreign aid\", although many NGOs tend to disapprove of this.\n\nOfficial development assistance is a measure of government-contributed aid, compiled by the Development Assistance Committee of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) since 1969. The DAC consists of 34 of the largest aid-donating countries.\n\nThe concept of development aid goes back to the colonial era at the turn of the twentieth century, in particular to the British policy of colonial development that emerged during that period. The traditional government policy had tended to favor laissez-faire style economics, with the free market for capital and goods dictating the economic role that colonies played in the British Empire.\nChanges in attitudes towards the moral purpose of the Empire, and the role that government could play in the promotion of welfare slowly led to a more proactive policy of economic and developmental assistance towards poor colonies. The first challenge to Britain was the economic crisis that occurred after World War I. Prior to the passage of the 1929 Colonial Development Act, the doctrine that governed Britain (and other European colonizers) with their territories was that of financial self-sufficiency. What this simply meant was that the colonies were responsible for themselves.\n\nBritain was not going to use the money that belongs to the metropole to pay for things in the colonies. The colonies did not only have to pay for infrastructural development but they also were responsible for the salaries of British officials that worked in the colonies. The colonies generated the revenues to pay for these through different forms of taxations. The standard taxation was the import and export taxes. Goods going out of the colonies were taxed and those coming in were also taxed. These generate significant revenues. Apart from these taxes, the colonizers introduced two other forms of taxes: hut tax and labor tax. The hut tax is akin to a property tax today. Every grown up adult male had their own hut. Each of these had to pay a tax. Labor tax was the work that the people had to do without any remunerations or with meager stipends. As the economic crisis widened and had significant impact on the colonies, revenues generated from taxes continued to decline, having a significant impact on the colonies. While this was going on, Britain experienced major unemployment rates. Parliament began to discuss ways in which they could deal with Britain's unemployment rates and at the same time respond to some of the urgent needs of the colonies. This process culminated in the passage of the Colonial Development Act in 1929, which established a Colonial Development Advisory Committee under the authority of the Secretary of State for the Colonies, then Lord Passfield. Its initial annual budget of £1 million was spent on schemes designed to develop the infrastructure of transport, electrical power and water supply in colonies and dominions abroad for the furtherance of imperial trade. The 1929 Act, though meager in the resources it made available for development, was a significant Act because it opened the door for Britain to make future investments in the colonies. It was a major shift in colonial development. The doctrine of financial self-sufficiency was abandoned and Britain could now use metropolitan funds to develop the colonies.\n\nBy the late 1930s, especially after the British West Indian labour unrest of 1934–1939, it was clear that this initial scheme was far too limited in scope. A Royal Commission under Lord Moyne was sent to investigate the living conditions in the British West Indies and it published its Report in 1940 which exposed the horrendous living conditions there.\n\nAmidst increasing criticism of Britain's colonial policies from abroad and at home, the commission was a performance to showcase Britain’s “benevolent” attitude towards its colonial subjects. \nThe Commission's recommendations urged health and education initiatives along with increased sugar subsidies to stave off a complete and total economic meltdown. The Colonial Office, eager to prevent instability while the country was at war, began funneling large sums of cash into the region.\n\nThe Colonial Development and Welfare Act was passed in 1940 to organize and allocate a sum of £5 million per year to the British West Indies for the purpose of long-term development. Some £10 million in loans was cancelled in the same Act. The Colonial Development and Welfare Act of 1945 increased the level of aid to £120m over a twenty-year period. Further Acts followed in 1948, 1959 and 1963, dramatically increasing the scope of monetary assistance, favourable interest-free loans and development assistance programs.\n\nThe beginning of modern development aid is rooted in the context of Post-World War II and the Cold War. Launched as a large-scale aid program by the United States in 1948, the European Recovery Program, or Marshall Plan, was concerned with strengthening the ties to the West European states to contain the influence of the USSR. Implemented by the Economic Cooperation Administration (ECA), the Marshall Plan also expanded its reconstruction finance to strategic parts of the Middle East and Asia. The rationale was well summarized in the 'Point Four Program', in which United States president Harry Truman stated the anti-communist rationale for U.S. development aid in his inaugural address of 1949, which also announced the founding of NATO:\n\nIn 1951, the Technical Cooperation Administration (TCA) was established within the Department of State to run the Point Four program. Development aid was aimed at offering technical solutions to social problems without altering basic social structures. The United States was often fiercely opposed to even moderate changes in social structures, for example the land reform in Guatemala in the early 1950s.\n\nIn 1953 at the end of the Korean War, the incoming Eisenhower Administration established the Foreign Operations Administration (FOA) as an independent government agency outside the Department of State to consolidate economic and technical assistance. In 1955, foreign aid was brought back under the administrative control of the Department of State and FOA was renamed the International Cooperation Administration (ICA).\n\nIn 1956, the Senate conducted a study of foreign aid with the help of a number of independent experts. The result, stated in a 1959 amendment to the Mutual Security Act, declared that development in low-income regions was a U.S. objective along with and additional to other foreign-policy interests, attempting thus to clarify development assistance's relationship with the effort to contain Communism. In 1961, the Congress approved the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 with President J.F. Kennedy's support, which retained the 1959 policy of international development as an independent U.S. objective and set up a new Agency for International Development, USAID.\n\nThe volume of international aid to developing countries (called \"Third World\" at the time) grew dramatically from the 1960s. This aid came mainly from the US and Western European countries, but there were also significant contributions from the Soviet Union in exchange for overseas political influence in the context of the heightened global tensions of the Cold War.\n\nThe practice of extending aid to politically aligned parties in recipient nations continues today; Faye and Niehaus (2012) are able to establish a causal relationship between politics and aid in recipient nations. In their analysis of the competitive 2006 Palestinian elections, they note that USAID provided funding for development programs in Palestine to support the Palestinian Authority, the US backed entity running for reelection. Faye and Niehaus discovered that the greater the degree of alignment the recipient party has with the donor entity, the more aid it receives on average during an election year. In an analysis of the 3 biggest donor nations (Japan, France, and the US), Alesina and Dollar (2000) discovered that each has its own distortions to the aid it gives out. Japan appears to prioritize giving aid nations that exercise similar voting preferences in the United Nations, France mostly sends aid to its former colonies, and the U.S. disproportionately provides aid to Israel and Egypt. These allocations are often powerful tools for maintaining the strategic interests of the donor country in the recipient country.\n\nThe Development Assistance Committee was established in 1960 by the Organisation for European Economic Co-operation to coordinate development aid amongst the rich nations. A 1961 resolution decreed that:\n\nMost official development assistance (ODA) comes from the 28 members of the Development Assistance Committee (DAC), or about $135 billion in 2013. A further $15.9 billion came from the European Commission and non-DAC countries gave an additional $9.4 billion. Although development aid rose in 2013 to the highest level ever recorded, a trend of a falling share of aid going to the neediest sub-Saharan African countries continued.\n\nThe Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) measures countries contributing the highest amounts of ODA (in absolute terms). As of 2013, the top 10 DAC countries are as follows (listed in US dollars). European Union countries together gave $70.73 billion and EU Institutions gave a further $15.93 billion. The European Union accumulated a higher portion of GDP as a form of foreign aid than any other economic union.\n\n\nThe OECD also lists countries by the amount of ODA they give \"as a percentage of their gross national income.\" The top 10 DAC countries are as follows. Five countries met the longstanding UN target for an ODA/GNI ratio of 0.7% in 2013:\n\n\nEuropean Union countries that are members of the Development Assistance Committee gave 0.42% of GNI (excluding the $15.93 billion given by EU Institutions).\n\nDevelopment aid is often provided by means of supporting local development aid projects. In these projects, it sometimes occurs that no strict code of conduct is in force. In some projects, the development aid workers do not respect the local code of conduct. For example, the local dress code as well as social interaction. In developing countries, these matters are regarded highly important and not respecting it may cause severe offense, and thus significant problems and delay of the projects.\n\nThere is also much debate about evaluating the quality of development aid, rather than simply the quantity. For instance, tied aid is often criticized as the aid given must be spent in the donor country or in a group of selected countries. Tied aid can increase development aid project costs by up to 20 or 30 percent.\n\nThere is also criticism because donors may give with one hand, through large amounts of development aid, yet take away with the other, through strict trade or migration policies, or by getting a foothold for foreign corporations. The Commitment to Development Index measures the overall policies of donors and evaluates the quality of their development aid, instead of just comparing the quantity of official development assistance given.\n\nAid effectiveness is the degree to which development aid works, and is a subject of significant disagreement. Dissident economists such as Peter Bauer and Milton Friedman argued in the 1960s that aid is ineffective:\n\nIn economics, there are two competing positions on aid. A view pro aid, supported by Jeffrey Sachs and the United Nations, which argues that foreign aid will give the big push to break the low-income poverty trap poorer countries are trapped in. From this perspective, aid serves to finance “the core inputs to development – teachers, health centers, roads, wells, medicine, to name a few...” (United Nations 2004). And a view that is skeptic about the impacts of aid, supported by William Easterly, that points out that aid has not proven to work after 40 years of large investments in Africa.\n\nAmerican political scientist and professor Nicolas van de Walle has also argued that despite more than two decades of donor-supported reform in Africa, the continent continues to be plagued by economic crises due to the combination of state generated factors and to the counter productivity of international development aid to Africa. Van de Walle first attributes the failure to implement economic policy reform to factors within the African state:\nVan de Walle later argues that these state generated factors that have obstructed the effective implementation of economic policy reform are further exacerbated by foreign aid. Aid, therefore, makes policy reform less likely, rather than more likely. Van de Walle posits that international aid has sustained economic stagnation in Africa by:\nIn order for aid to be productive and for economic policy reform to be successfully implemented in Africa, the relationship between donors and governments must change. Van de Walle argues that aid must be made more conditional and selective to incentivize states to take on reform and to generate the much needed accountability and capacity in African governments.\n\nAdditionally, information asymmetries often hinder the appropriate allocation of aid; Blum et al. (2016) note that both South Sudan and Liberia struggle tremendously with paying employees and controlling the flow of money - South Sudan had a significant number of ghosts on its payroll, while Liberia's Civil Service Agency could not adequately pay civil servants because there was minimal communication from the Ministries of Health and Education regarding their respective payrolls.\n\nMany econometric studies in recent years have supported the view that development aid has no effect on the speed with which countries develop. Negative side effects of aid can include an unbalanced appreciation of the recipient's currency (known as Dutch Disease), increasing corruption, and adverse political effects such as postponements of necessary economic and democratic reforms.\n\nIt has been argued that much government-to-government aid was ineffective because it was merely a way to support strategically important leaders (Alesino and Dollar, 2000). A good example of this is the former dictator of Zaire, Mobuto Sese Seko, who lost support from the West after the Cold War had ended. Mobuto, at the time of his death, had a sufficient personal fortune (particularly in Swiss banks) to pay off the entire external debt of Zaire.\n\nBesides some instances that only the president (and/or his close entourage) receives the money resulting from development aid, the money obtained is often badly spent as well. For example, in Chad, the Chad Export Project, an oil production project supported by the World Bank, was set up. The earnings of this project (6.5 million dollars per year and rising) were used to obtain arms. The government defended this purchase by stating that \"development was not possible without safety\". However, the Military of Chad is notorious for severe misconduct against the population (abuse, rape, claiming of supplies and cars) and did not even defend the population in distress (e.g. in the Darfur conflict). In 2008, the World Bank retreated from the project that thus increased environmental pollution and human suffering.\n\nAnother criticism has been that Western countries often project their own needs and solutions onto other societies and cultures. In response, western help in some cases has become more 'endogenous', which means that needs as well as solutions are being devised in accordance with local cultures. For example, sometimes projects are set up which wish to make several ethnic groups cooperate. While this is a noble goal, most of these projects fail because of this intent.\n\nThe Center for Global Development have published a review essay of the existing literature studying the relationship between Aid and public institutions. In this review, they concluded that a large and sustained Aid can have a negative effect in the development of good public institutions in low income countries. They also mention some of the arguments exhibited in this article as possible mechanism for this negative effect, for instance, they considered the Dutch Disease, the discourage of revenue collections and the effect on the state capacity among others.\n\nFurthermore, the effect of Aid on conflict intensity and onset have been proved to have different impacts in different countries and situations. For instance, for the case of Colombia Dube and Naidu (2015) showed that Aid from the US seems to have been diverted to paramilitary groups, increasing political violence. Moreover, Nunn and Qian (2014) have found that an increase in U.S. food aid increases conflict intensity; they claim that the main mechanism driving this result is predation of the aid by the rebel groups. In fact, they note that aid can have the unintentional consequence of actually improving rebel groups' ability to continue conflict, as vehicles and communications equipment usually accompany the aid that is stolen. These tools improve the ability of rebel groups to organize and give them assets to trade for arms, possibly increasing the length of the fighting. Finally, Crost, Felter and Johnston (2014) have showed that a development program in the Philippines have had the unintended effect of increasing conflict because of an strategic retaliation from the rebel group, on where they tried to prevent that the development program increases support to the government.\n\nIt has also been argued that help based on direct donation creates dependency and corruption, and has an adverse effect on local production. As a result, a shift has taken place towards aid based on activation of local assets and stimulation measures such as microcredit.\n\nAid has also been ineffective in young recipient countries in which ethnic tensions are strong: sometimes ethnic conflicts have prevented efficient delivery of aid.\n\nIn some cases, western surpluses that resulted from faulty agriculture- or other policies have been dumped in poor countries, thus wiping out local production and increasing dependency.\n\nIn several instances, loans that were considered irretrievable (for instance because funds had been embezzled by a dictator who has already died or disappeared), have been written off by donor countries, who subsequently booked this as development aid.\n\nIn many cases, Western governments placed orders with Western companies as a form of subsidizing them, and later shipped these goods to poor countries who often had no use for them. These projects are sometimes called 'white elephants'.\n\nAccording to James Ferguson, these issues might be caused by deficient diagnostics of the development agencies. In his book The Anti-Politics Machine, Ferguson uses the example of the Thaba-Tseka project in Lesotho to illustrate how a bad diagnostic on the economic activity of the population and the desire to stay away from local politics, caused a livestock project to fail.\n\nAccording to Martijn Nitzsche, another problem is the way on how development projects are sometimes constructed and how they are maintained by the local population. Often, projects are made with technology that is hard to understand and too difficult to repair, resulting in unavoidable failure over time. Also, in some cases the local population is not very interested in seeing the project to succeed and may revert to disassembling it to retain valuable source materials. Finally, villagers do not always maintain a project as they believe the original development workers or others in the surroundings will repair it when it fails (which is not always so).\n\nA common criticism in recent years is that rich countries have put so many conditions on aid that it has reduced aid effectiveness. In the example of tied aid, donor countries often require the recipient to purchase goods and services from the donor, even if these are cheaper elsewhere. Other conditions include opening up the country to foreign investment, even if it might not be ready to do so.\nAll of these problems have made that a very large part of the spend money on development aid is simply wasted uselessly. According to Gerbert van der Aa, for the Netherlands, only 33% of the development aid is successful, another 33% fails and of the remaining 33% the effect is unclear. This means that for example for the Netherlands, 1.33 to 2.66 billion is lost as it spends 4 billion in total of development aid (or 0,8% of the gross national product).\n\nFor the Italian development aid for instance, we find that one of their successful projects (the Keita project) was constructed at the cost of 2/3 of 1 F-22 fighter jet (100 million $), and was able to reforest of broken, barren earth, hereby increasing the socio-economic wellbeing of the area. However -like the Dutch development aid- again we find that, the Italian development aid too is still not performing up to standards. This makes clear that there are great differences between the success of the projects and that budgetary follow-up may not be so strictly checked by independent third parties.\n\nAn excerpt from Thomas Dichter's recently published book \"Despite Good Intentions: Why Development Assistance to the Third World Has Failed\" reads: \"This industry has become one in which the benefits of what is spent are increasingly in inverse proportion to the amount spent - a case of more gets you less. As donors are attracted on the basis of appeals emphasizing \"product\", results, and accountability…the tendency to engage in project-based, direct-action development becomes inevitable. Because funding for development is increasingly finite, this situation is very much a zero-sum game. What gets lost in the shuffle is the far more challenging long-term process of development.\"\n\nEffectiveness of development aid can be argued to be uncoordinated and unsustainable. Development aid tends to be put towards specific diseases with high death rates and simple treatments, rather than funding health basics and infrastructure. Though a lot of NGO's and funding have come forth, little sustainable outcomes have been made. This is due to the fact that the money doesn't go towards developing a sustainable medical basis. Money is given to specific diseases to show short-term results, reflecting the donor's best interests rather than the citizens' necessities. It is evident that many development aid projects are not helping with basic and sustainable health care due to the generally high numbers of deaths due to preventable diseases. Development aid could do more justice if used to generate general public health with infrastructure and trained personnel rather than pin-pointing specific diseases and reaching for quick fixes.\n\nResearch has shown that developed nations are more likely to give aid to nations who have the worst economic situations and policies (Burnside, C., Dollar, D., 2000). They give money to these nations so that they can become developed and begin to turn these policies around. It has also been found that aid relates to the population of a nation as well, and that the smaller a nation is, the more likely it is to receive funds from donor agencies. The harsh reality of this is that it is very unlikely that a developing nation with a lack of resources, policies, and good governance will be able to utilize incoming aid money in order to get on their feet and begin to turn the damaged economy around. It is more likely that a nation with good economic policies and good governance will be able to utilize aid money to help the country establish itself with an existing foundation and be able to rise from there with the help of the international community. But research shows that it is the low-income nations that will receive aid more so, and the better off a nation is, the less aid money it will be granted. On the other hand, Alesina and Dollar (2000) note that private foreign investment often responds positively to more substantive economic policy and better protections under the law. There is increased private foreign investment in developing nations with these attributes, especially in the higher income ones, perhaps due to being larger and possibly more profitable markets.\n\nThe Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Abhijit Banerjee and Ruimin He have undertaken a rigorous study of the relatively few independent evaluations of aid program successes and failures. They suggest the following interventions are usually highly effective forms of aid in normal circumstances:\n\nAn inquiry into aid effectiveness by the UK All Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) for Debt, Aid and Trade featured evidence from Rosalind Eyben, a Fellow at the Institute of Development Studies. Her evidence to the inquiry stated that effective aid requires as much investing in relationships as in managing money. It suggests Development organisations need to change the way they work to manage better the multiple partnerships that the Accra Agenda for Action recognises is at the core of the aid business. In relation to this specific inquiry, Dr Eyben outlined the following points:\n\n\nThe views above are of Eyben. There were many other submissions to the All Party Parliamentary Group for Debt, Aid and Trade's inquiry into Aid Effectiveness. The final report gathered a vast amount of information from a wide range of sources to ensure a balanced perspective on the issues of aid effectiveness. The All Party Parliamentary Group for Debt, Aid and Trade's inquiry into Aid Effectiveness can be found online and the submissions of other contributors are available upon request.\n\nAlbert Hirschman’s Exit-Voice-Loyalty model can be used to understand how certain policy changes affect the growth of a nation and the change of bargaining power inside it. Clark et al.’s formalization of the model to politics shows the effect that developmental aid can have on the receiving country’s development and highlights that the aid can potentially harm that country.\n\nAlbert O. Hirschman’s EVL model is based on the foundation that “under any economic, social, or political system, individuals, business firms, and organizations, in general, are subject to lapses from efficient, rational, law-abiding, virtuous, or otherwise functional behavior” Exit, Voice, and Loyalty. The customer who is affected by the lapse in the system (a fall in the quality of a product they are consuming) has two ways to answer to this- “exit” or “voice”. If the individual in a chooses the former, they simply stop buying the product and inflict a revenue drop that forces the firm to either correct their mistake or cease to exist. If the individual chooses the “voice” option, then they will express their dissatisfaction to either the firm or something that has authority over it. This will force the firm to fix their lapse, but it will not suffer a decline in revenue. Lastly, Hirschman introduces the “loyalty” option, which occurs when the consumer cannot “exit” and the firm does not care about the effect that “voice” will have on their revenue, and the consumers who chose it continues to consume the lapsed good.\n\nClark et al.’s paper takes Hirschman’s Exit-Voice-Loyalty model and applies it to political developments inside a nation. When a government changes a policy that now has a negative effect on the welfare of some citizens, or is already being unresponsive to a deleterious situation, the citizens have the same 3 choices of response as before. Here, “exit” can take the form of citizens leaving the country The Art of Not Being Governed and hence depriving the state of their taxes or simply rearranging their capital and goods so they are not taxed by the government, as seen with British merchants threatening to move capital to the Netherlands if not given representation after the Glorious Revolution. “Voice” takes the form of non-violent civil disobedience, as seen with Gandhi's Salt March and the Black Lives Matter protests in Ferguson, a violent demonstration, as seen with Luddite breaking weaving machinery to protest the lack of protectionist policies by the English government, or even “everyday resistance” where small, non-cooperation and false create high costs for the state. “Loyalty” entails that the citizens simply accept the situation and continue their lives before.\n\nHow foreign aid enters this equation in weak states is by changing the citizens’ power of “voice” and “exit” and weakening the state’s dependence on their citizens and hence becoming less responsive to their needs. If the state receives international aid, it is less dependent on the tax revenue that it collects from its constituents. A higher level of fiscal independence on the part of the state decreases the bargaining power of the citizens. The government is threatened less by the citizens’ “exit” option, and less hurt if it is implemented, hence this takes away a credible threat to use at the negotiation table in order for the citizens to request improvement to their current condition. At the same time, the lack of dependence for revenue decreases the “voice” action of the citizen by weakening the effect a violent demonstration or everyday resistance has on impacting the state’s decision-making.\n\nAs long as the government of a nation receiving international aid knows that it will keep receiving it, and there will be no repercussion on the side of the donors for failing to address its constituents’ issues, it stays optimal for that government to keep ignoring the weakened demands of its citizens. With weakened bargaining power and a less responsive state, there can be no bargaining between citizen and state that will, in the long, run lead to economic and/or development within the nation. Although international has done far-reaching things with respect to increasing access to improved medical care, improving education, and decreasing poverty and hunger, only in 1997 did the World Bank began to rethink its aid policy structure and begin using parts of it specifically for building up the state capability of the aid-receiving nations . Even more recently, the Millennium Challenge Corporation, a US-based aid agency, started working with developing nation to provide them with strictly development aid as they set and implement goals for national development.\n\nWhile development aid is an important source of investment for poor and often insecure societies, aid's complexity and the ever-expanding budgets leave it vulnerable to corruption, yet discussing it remains difficult as for many it is a taboo subject. Corruption is very hard to quantify as it is often hard to differentiate it from other problems, such as wastage, mismanagement and inefficiency, to illustrate the point, over $8.75 billion was lost to waste, fraud, abuse and mismanagement in the Hurricane Katrina relief effort.\n\nOften a lack of understanding of the process by those meant to be receiving aid leads to cynicism and belief that greed and corruption are the key failures. Non-governmental organizations have in recent years made great efforts to increase participation, accountability and transparency, humanitarian assistance remains a poorly understood process to those meant to be receiving it—much greater investment needs to be made into researching and investing in relevant and effective accountability systems.\n\nHowever, there is little clear consensus on the trade-offs between speed and control, especially in emergency situations when the humanitarian imperative of saving lives and alleviating suffering may conflict with the time and resources required to minimise corruption risks. Researchers at the Overseas Development Institute have highlighted the need to tackle corruption with, but not limited to, the following methods:\n\nDevelopment charities make up a vast web of non-governmental organizations, religious ministries, foundations, business donations and college scholarships devoted to development aid. Estimates vary, but private aid is at least as large as ODA within the United States, at $16 billion in 2003. World figures for private aid are not well tracked, so cross-country comparisons are not easily possible, though it does seem that per person, some other countries may give more, or have similar incentives that the United States has for its citizens to encourage giving.\n\nStarting at the beginning of the UN Decade for Women in 1975, the Women in Development approach to international development began to inform the provision of development aid. Some academics criticized the Women in Development approach for relying on integrating women into existing development aid paradigms instead of promulgating specific aid to encourage gender equality. The Gender and Development approach was created in response, to discuss international development in terms of societal gender roles and to challenge these gender roles within development policy. Women in Development predominated as the approach to gender in development aid through the 1980s. Starting in the early 1990s Gender and Development’s influence encouraged Gender Mainstreaming within international development aid.\n\nThe World Conference on Women, 1995 promulgated Gender Mainstreaming on all policy levels for the United Nations. Gender Mainstreaming has been adopted by nearly all units of the UN with the UN Economic and Social Council adopting a definition which indicated an “ultimate goal… to achieve gender equality.” The UN included promoting gender equality and empowering women as one of eight Millennium Development Goals for developing countries.\n\nThe EU integrated Women and Development thinking into its aid policy starting with the Lomé Convention in 1984. In 1992 the EU’s Latin American and Asian development policy first clearly said that development programs should not have detrimental effects on the position and role of women. Since then the EU has continued the policy of including gender equality within development aid and programs. Within the EU gender equality is increasingly introduced in programmatic ways. The bulk of the EU’s aid for gender equality seeks to increase women’s access to education, employment and reproductive health services. However, some areas of gender inequality are targeted according to region, such as land reform and counteracting the effects of gangs on women in Latin America.\n\nUSAID first established a Woman in Development office in 1974 and in 1996 promulgated the Gender Plan of Action to further integrate gender equality into aid programs. In 2012 USAID released a Gender Equality and Female Empowerment Policy to guide its aid programs in making gender equality a central goal. USAID saw increased solicitations from aid programs which integrated gender equality from 1995-2010. As part of their increased aid provision, USAID developed PROMOTE to target gender inequality in Afghanistan with $216 million in aid coming directly from USAID and $200 million coming from other donors.\n\nMany NGOs have also incorporated gender equality into their programs. Within the Netherlands, NGOs including Oxfam Netherlands Organization for Development Assistance, the Humanist Institute for Cooperation with Developing Countries, Interchurch Organization for Development Cooperation, and Catholic Organization for Relief and Development Aid have included certain targets for their aid programs with regards to gender equality. NGOs which receive aid dollars through the Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs or which partner with the Norwegian government on aid projects must “demonstrate that they take women and gender equality seriously.” In response to this requirement organizations like the Norwegian Christian charity Digni have initiated projects which target gender equality.\n\nPrivate Foundations provide the majority of their gender related aid to health programs and have relatively neglected other areas of gender inequality. Foundations, such as the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, have partnered with governmental aid organizations to provide funds for gender equality, but increasingly aid is provided through partnerships with local organizations and NGOS. Corporations also participate in providing gender equality aid through their Corporate Social Responsibility programs. Nike helped to create the Girl Effect to provide aid programs targeted towards adolescent girls. Using publicly available data Una Osili an economist at the Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis found that between 2000-10 $1.15 billion in private aid grants over $1 million from the United States targeted gender equality.\n\nThe Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development provides detailed analysis of the extent of aid for gender equality. OECD member countries tag their aid programs with gender markers when a program is designed to advanced gender equality. In 2014 OECD member nations committed almost $37 billion to aid for gender equality, with over $7 billion of that committed to programs where gender equality is a principal programmatic goal.\n\nThree main measures of gender inequality are used in calculating gender equality and testing programs for the purposes of development aid. In the 1995 Human Development Report the United Nations Development Program introduced the Gender Development Index and Gender Empowerment Measure. The Gender Empowerment Measure is calculated based on three measures, proportion of women in national parliaments, percentage of women in economic decision making positions and female share of income. The Gender Development Index uses the Human Development Index and corrects its results in life expectancy, income, and education for gender imbalances. Due to criticisms of these two indexes the United Nations Development Program in its 2010 Human Development Report introduced the Gender Inequality Index. The Gender Inequality Index uses more metrics and attempts to show the losses from gender inequality.\n\nEven with these indexes, Ranjula Swain of the Stockholm School of Economics and Supriya Garikipati of the University of Liverpool found that, compared to the effectiveness of health, economic, and education targeted aid, foreign aid for gender equality remains understudied. Swain and Garikipati found in an analysis of Gender Equality Aid that on a country and region-wide level gender equality aid was not significant in its effect. Swain and Garikipati blame this on the relative lack of aid with gender equality as a primary motivation.\n\nIn 2005, the Interagency Gender Working Group and World Health Organization released the “So What? Report” on the effectiveness of Gender Mainstreaming in NGO reproductive health programs. The report found these programs effective, but had trouble finding clear gender outcomes because most programs did not measure this data. When gender outcomes were measured, the report found positive programmatic effects, but the report did not look at whether these results were from increased access to services or increasing gender equality.\n\nEven when gender equality is identified as a goal of aid, other factors will often be the primary focus of the aid. In some instances the nature of aid’s gender equality component can fail to be implemented at the level of individual projects when it is a secondary aspect of a project. Gender equality is often put forward as a policy goal for the organization but program staff have differing commitment and training with regards to this goal. When gender equality is a secondary aspect, development aid which has funds required to impact gender equality can be used to meet quotas of women receiving aid, without effecting the changes in gender roles that Gender Mainstreaming was meant to promote. Programs can also fail to provide lasting effects, with local organizations removing gender equality aspects of programs after international aid dollars are no longer funding them.\n\nRobert C. Jones of McGill University and Liam Swiss of Memorial University argue that women leaders of governmental aid organizations and NGOs are more effective at Gender Mainstreaming than their male counterparts. They found in a literature review that NGOs headed by women were more likely to have Gender Mainstreaming programs and that women were often the heads of Gender Mainstreaming programs within organizations. By breaking down gender equality programs into two categories, gender mainstreamed programs and gender-focused programs which do not mainstream gender, Jones and Swiss found that female leaders of governmental aid organizations provided more financial support to gender mainstreamed programs and slightly more support to gender aware programs overall.\n\nPetra Debusscher of Ghent University has criticized EU aid agencies for following an “integrationist approach” to gender mainstreaming, where gender mainstreaming is used to achieve existing policy goals, as opposed to a “transformative approach” which seeks to change policy priorities and programs fundamentally to achieve gender equality. She finds that this approach more closely follows a Women in Development model than a Gender and Development one. Debussher criticized the EU’s development policy in Latin America for focusing too much attention on gender inequality as a problem to be solved for women. She found that the language used represented more of a Woman in Development approach than a Gender and Development Approach. She notes that men’s role in domestic violence is insufficiently brought forward, with program and policy instead targeting removing women from victimhood. Rather than discussing the role of men and women relative to each other, women are discussed as needing to “catch up with an implicit male norm.” Debussher also criticized EU’s development aid to Southern Africa as too narrow in its scope and too reliant on integrating women and gender into existing aid paradigms. Debusscher notes that women’s organizations in the region are often concerned with different social constructions of gender, as opposed to the economic growth structure favored by the EU. For EU development aid to Europe and surrounding countries, Debsusscher argued that programs to encourage education of women were designed primarily to encourage overall economic growth, not to target familial and social inequalities.\n\nSome criticism of gender equality development aid discusses a lack of voices of women’s organizations in developing aid programs. Debusscher argued that feminist and women’s organizations were not represented enough in EU aid. and that while feminist and women’s organizations were represented in implementing policy programs they were not sufficiently involved in their development in EU aid to Southern Africa. Similarly, Jones and Swiss argue that more women need to be in leadership positions of aid organizations and that these organizations need to be “demasculinized” in order to better gender mainstream. T.K.S. Ravindran and A. Kelkar-Khambete criticized the Millennium Development Goals for insufficiently integrating gender into all development goals, instead creating its own development goal, as limiting the level of aid provided to promote gender equality.\n\nIt is doubtful whether remittances, money sent home by foreign workers, ought to be considered a form of development aid. However, they appear to constitute a large proportion of the flows of money between developed and developing countries, although the exact amounts are uncertain because remittances are poorly tracked. World Bank estimates for remittance flows to developing countries in 2004 totalled $122 billion; however, this number is expected to change upwards in the next few years as the formulas used to calculate remittance flows are modified. The exact nature and effects of remittance money remain contested, however in at least 36 of the 153 countries tracked remittance sums were second only to FDI and outnumbered both public and private aid donations.\n\nThe International Monetary Fund has reported that private remittances may have a negative impact on economic growth, as they are often used for private consumption of individuals and families, not for economic development of the region or country.\n\n\n\nEffectiveness and anti-corruption measures:\n\nGeneral:\n\nTools and Stories:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30815733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30815733", "title": "Djibouti Air", "text": "Djibouti Air\n\nDjibouti Air is an airline based in Djibouti. Its logo depicts the Djibouti francolin.\n\nDjibouti Air is owned by the government of Djibouti as well as a private investor from the United Arab Emirates.\n\nThe airline began operations on March 3, 2011, with a flight to Dubai from Djibouti. During the month, it also launched six weekly Djibouti–Dubai flights via its dual-class Boeing 737 aircraft.\n\nWith two additional 737s expected, Djibouti Air aims to service 1,500 passengers per month.\n\nIn February 2012, the airline suspended its only scheduled services from the Djibouti-Ambouli International Airport to Dubai International Airport.\n\nInitially, the airline will fly only to Dubai. Within the first six months, the carrier also plans to launch flights to Ethiopia, Somalia, Yemen, Kenya and Malaysia, after which point it is scheduled to expand coverage to East Asia and Europe. Additionally, it is set to offer more frequent flights to the Middle East.\n\nDjibouti Air's fleet includes the following aircraft types ():\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51690754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51690754", "title": "Doña Inés", "text": "Doña Inés\n\nDoña Inés is a village in Murcia, Spain. It is part of the municipality of Lorca.\n"}
{"id": "13887976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13887976", "title": "Eiroforum", "text": "Eiroforum\n\nEIROforum is an organization consisting of eight European intergovernmental scientific research organisations devoted to fostering mutual activities. Presided upon by the Director Generals of the individual organizations, who meet twice a year. the organization aims to identify mutual activities amongst its members to share resources in various fields.\n\nThe eight EIROforum members are:\n\nThe EIROforum plays a crucial role to establish a European Research Area. It works closely both with the European Union and national institutions and actively participates in shaping science policy in Europe. The member organisations engage in cutting-edge research activities and pool their substantial expertise in basic research resources by interacting to find common synergies. \n\nThe five major areas of activity are:\n\nSome of its major achievements has been to provide input to shaping a scientific research policy in Europe as part of the new treaty. In the technology area, for instance, Grid technology, amongst other IT technologies has been a driving force to bring closer collaboration on the sharing of a common infrastructure for the benefit of various fields of the member organizations; in particular: nuclear physics, astronomy and microbiology.\n\n"}
{"id": "11415379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11415379", "title": "El Acil", "text": "El Acil\n\nEl Acil (), meaning \"The Authentic\", is an Algerian daily newspaper in French language published in Constantine, capital of the north-east of Algeria. The newspaper was established in 1993. It belongs to the EURL Inter-Med-Info group, which owns the Arabic \"Al Acil\" and \"L'Authentic\", another French-language newspaper. \"El Acil\"′s manager is Nacer Tafraout, and the editor is Abdelkrim Zerzouri.\n\n"}
{"id": "33728628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33728628", "title": "Fabula Award", "text": "Fabula Award\n\nFabula is a literary award in Slovenia awarded each year for the best collection of short prose in Slovene published in the previous two years. It has been bestowed since 2006 by the national newspaper house Dnevnik at the Fabula World Literatures festival that takes place every spring in Ljubljana. The winner also receives a financial award. \n\n"}
{"id": "19073957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19073957", "title": "Finland–Kosovo relations", "text": "Finland–Kosovo relations\n\nFinland–Kosovo relations are foreign relations between Finland and Kosovo. Kosovo declared its independence from Serbia on 17 February 2008 and Finland recognised it on 7 March 2008. Finland maintains an embassy in Pristina.\n\nIn 1999, the President of Finland, Martti Ahtisaari, was reported as wanting to step up attempts to secure a peace agreement for Kosovo in his new role as a leading negotiator for the European Union. It was also reported that \"Correspondents say that despite Mr Ahtisaari's support for air strikes, his position as president of a non-NATO country could make him palatable to Belgrade [Serbian Government].\" In 2007, United Nations envoy for Kosovo says independence was the \"only viable option\" for the territory of Kosovo.\n\nHowever, Ahtisaari's plan for peace failed and he was unable to reconcile Serbs and Albanians in Kosovo and that \"Serbians see him as a leading player in the break-up of their country.\" \n\nFollowing Kosovo's declaration of independence from Serbia in 2008, Kosovo Albanians living in Finland celebrated and expressed their gratitude to the Finnish Government and President Ahtisaari.\n\nFinland currently has 411 troops serving in Kosovo as peacekeepers in the NATO led Kosovo Force.\n\n\nNotes:\n\nReferences:\n"}
{"id": "35423331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35423331", "title": "First island chain", "text": "First island chain\n\nThe first island chain refers to the first chain of major archipelagos out from the East Asian continental mainland coast. Principally composed of the Kuril Islands, Japanese Archipelago, Ryukyu Islands, Taiwan (Formosa), the northern Philippines, and Borneo; from the Kamchatka Peninsula to the Malay Peninsula. Some definitions of the \"first island chain\" anchor the northern end on the Russian Far East coast north of Sahkalin Island, with Sahkalin Island being the first link in the chain. However, others consider the Aleutians as the farthest north-eastern first link in the chain. The first island chain forms one of three island chain doctrines within the Island Chain Strategy.\n\nThe \"first island chain\" has its purpose in Chinese military doctrine. The People's Republic of China views the \"first island chain\" as the area it must secure and disable from American bases, aircraft and aircraft-carrier groups, if in defending itself it must tactically unleash a pre-emptive attack against an enemy. The aim of the doctrine is to seal off the Yellow Sea, South China Sea and East China Sea inside an arc running from the Aleutians in the north to Borneo in the south. According to reports by American think tanks CSBA and RAND, by 2020, China will be well on its way to having the means to achieve its \"first island chain\" policy.\n\n"}
{"id": "1048116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1048116", "title": "GUAM Organization for Democracy and Economic Development", "text": "GUAM Organization for Democracy and Economic Development\n\nThe GUAM Organization for Democracy and Economic Development is a regional organization of four post-Soviet states: Georgia, Ukraine, Azerbaijan, and Moldova.\n\nGUAM's charter was signed during a summit in Yalta on 6 to 7 June 2001 by the four current members and Uzbekistan, which later withdrew. According to the former Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko the charter set objectives for cooperation, such as promoting democratic values, ensuring stable development, enhancing international and regional security and stepping up European integration. Moldova's 2000 elections were won by the Party of Communists of the Republic of Moldova who subsequently realigned their foreign policy towards Europe shortly before the parliamentary election held in March 2005.\n\nIn June 2007, GUAM nations agreed to form a 500-personnel joint peacekeeping force to battle separatism.\n\nGiven the existence of the Russian-led Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), GUAM is sometimes seen in Russia as a way of countering the Russian influence in the area and as part of a strategy backed by the United States. However, GUAM leaders repeatedly and officially dismiss such claims and declare their strong willingness to develop close friendly relations with Russia. Moreover, Azerbaijan, the group's main energy power, has managed to avoid any conflicts with Russia in recent years.\n\nIn 2014, the group moved to use English instead of Russian as a working language at its meetings.\n\n\n\n\n\nCooperation between Georgia, Ukraine, Azerbaijan, and Moldova started with the GUAM consultative forum, established on 10 October 1997, in Strasbourg and named after the initial letters of each of those countries. In 1999, the organisation adopted the name GUUAM due to the membership of Uzbekistan. A summit in Yalta on 6 to 7 June 2001, was accompanied by the signing of GUUAM's charter which formalized the organization. However, in 2002, Uzbekistan announced that it planned to withdraw from the organization, and following this announcement started to ignore GUUAM summits and meetings. On 24 May 2005, shortly after the Andijan massacre, Uzbekistan finally gave an official notice of withdrawal from the organization to the Moldovan presidency, thus changing the group's name back to GUAM.\n\nIn the years following the signing of its charter the grouping was generally considered to have stagnated: for example, only two of the five leaders attended the 2004 meeting in Yalta, while the GUUAM official website still showed the old Georgian flag and listed Uzbekistan as a member.\n\nA summit of GUUAM took place in Chişinău, Moldova, on 22 April 2005. The president of Uzbekistan, Islam Karimov failed to attend, as did the president of Poland, Aleksander Kwaśniewski, who had been invited as an observer. The presidents of Romania, Traian Băsescu, and of Lithuania, Valdas Adamkus, both participated as observers, as did the US Department of State special representative for Eurasian conflicts, Steven Mann, and the OSCE Secretary General Ján Kubiš. The Russian ambassador in Chişinău criticized the fact that Russia was not invited to attend. Ilham Aliyev, the president of Azerbaijan, said after the summit: \"Our organization is emerging as a powerful force, participating in resolving problems in the Caspian-Black Sea region\" while the president of Ukraine, Viktor Yushchenko, said that a new page had been written in the history of the organization.\n\nFrom 22 to 23 May 2006, Ukraine and Azerbaijan announced plans to further increase the GUAM member relations by renaming the organization \"GUAM Organization for Democracy and Economic Development\" and establishing its headquarters in the Ukrainian capital. The other members said this was a remarkable step and development. The summit participants were also expected to adopt GUAM by-laws, a declaration and a communiqué.\n\nOn 30 May 2006 the Ukrainian Defense Ministry announced plans to establish GUAM peacekeeping forces.\n\nOn 19 June 2007, presidents of Lithuania, Poland and Romania joined the leaders of GUAM member states at the GUAM summit in Baku, Azerbaijan. Also participating at the summit were the Vice-President of Bulgaria, the Vice-Speaker of the Estonian parliament, the Minister of Economy of Latvia, and the high-level representatives of the United States, Japan, OSCE, the Organization of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation (BSEC), UNESCO, and heads of diplomatic missions accredited in Azerbaijan.\n\nUkrainian Foreign Minister Pavlo Klimkin said on December 5, 2014 that at a session in Basel, Switzerland, he proposed that participants speak English instead of Russian, which was the main language used in official gatherings in the Soviet Union.\nHe said that the other representatives agreed.\n\nOn 21 April 2005, the GUAM countries formed a common front on several issues in the CIS Foreign Ministers Council that was held at that time in Moscow. Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova lodged complaints against restriction imposed by Russia against some of their national products. At the same time, the four GUAM countries made a proposal to discuss the \"frozen conflicts\" of Transnistria, Abkhazia, South Ossetia (in which the separatist forces are Russian-supported) and Nagorno-Karabakh (sometimes these regions are referred to by the acronym TAKO ). Lastly the other three GUAM nations supported Ukraine's proposal to condemn the Holodomor, the 1930s famine in Ukraine, as a genocide.\n\nAnother of the issues associated with GUAM is competition between two proposed transportation corridors to better link Europe with Asia. Russia, Azerbaijan, and Iran have already been through rounds of negotiation on their plan, the North-South Transportation Corridor (INSTC); neighbouring countries (formerly, but no longer with the exception of Armenia) have expressed enthusiasm as well. This corridor would travel along the border between Russia and the Baltic states of the European Union, then continue south through Ukraine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1699385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1699385", "title": "German nationalism", "text": "German nationalism\n\nGerman nationalism is the nationalist idea that Germans are a nation, promotes the unity of Germans and German-speakers into a nation state, and emphasizes and takes pride in the national identity of Germans. The earliest origins of German nationalism began with the birth of romantic nationalism during the Napoleonic Wars when Pan-Germanism started to rise. Advocacy of a German nation-state began to become an important political force in response to the invasion of German territories by France under Napoleon.\n\nIn the 19th century Germans debated the German Question over whether the German nation state should comprise a \"Lesser Germany\" that excluded Austria or a \"Greater Germany\" that included Austria. The faction led by Prussian Chancellor Otto von Bismarck succeeded in forging a Lesser Germany.\n\nAggressive German nationalism and territorial expansion was a key factor leading to both World Wars. Prior to World War I, Germany had established a colonial empire in hopes of rivaling Britain and France. In the 1930s, the Nazis came to power and sought to create a Greater Germanic Reich, emphasizing ethnic German identity and German greatness to the exclusion of all others, eventually leading to the extermination of Jews, Poles, Romani, and other people deemed \"Untermenschen\" (subhumans) in the Holocaust during World War II.\n\nAfter the defeat of Nazi Germany, the country was divided into East and West Germany in the opening acts of the Cold War, and each state retained a sense of German identity and held reunification as a goal, albeit in different contexts. The creation of the European Union was in part an effort to harness German identity to a European identity. West Germany underwent its economic miracle following the war, which led to the creation of guest worker program; many of these workers ended up settling in Germany which has led to tensions around questions of national and cultural identity, especially with regard to Turks who settled in Germany.\n\nGerman reunification was achieved in 1990 following \"Die Wende\"; an event that caused some alarm both inside and outside Germany. Germany has emerged as a power inside Europe and in the world; its role in the European debt crisis and in the European migrant crisis have led to criticism of German authoritarian abuse of its power, especially with regard to the Greek debt crisis, and raised questions within and without Germany as to Germany's role in the world.\n\nDue to post-1945 repudiation of the Nazi regime and its atrocities, German nationalism has been generally viewed in the country as taboo and people within Germany have struggled to find ways to acknowledge its past but take pride in its past and present accomplishments; the German question has never been fully resolved in this regard. A wave of national pride swept the country when it hosted the 2006 FIFA World Cup. Far-right parties that stress German national identity and pride have existed since the end of World War II but have never governed.\n\nDefining a German nation based on internal characteristics presented difficulties. Since the start of the Reformation in the 16th century, the German lands had been divided between Catholics and Lutherans and linguistic diversity was large as well. Today, the Swabian, Bavarian, Saxon and Cologne dialects in their most pure forms are estimated to be 40% mutually intelligible with more modern Standard German, meaning that in a conversation between a native speaker of any of these dialects and a person who speaks only standard German, the latter will be able to understand slightly less than half of what is being said without any prior knowledge of the dialect, a situation which is likely to have been similar or greater in the 19th century.\n\nNationalism among the Germans first developed not among the general populace but among the intellectual elites of various German states. The early German nationalist Friedrich Karl von Moser, writing in the mid 18th century, remarked that, compared with \"the British, Swiss, Dutch and Swedes\", the Germans lacked a \"national way of thinking\". However, the cultural elites themselves faced difficulties in defining the German nation, often resorting to broad and vague concepts: the Germans as a \"Sprachnation\" (a people unified by the same language), a \"Kulturnation\" (a people unified by the same culture) or an \"Erinnerungsgemeinschaft\" (a community of remembrance, i.e. sharing a common history). Johann Gottlieb Fichte – considered the founding father of German nationalism – devoted the 4th of his \"Addresses to the German Nation\" (1808) to defining the German nation and did so in a very broad manner. In his view, there existed a dichotomy between the people of Germanic descent. There were those who had left their fatherland (which Fichte considered to be Germany) during the time of the Migration Period and had become either assimilated or heavily influenced by Roman language, culture and customs, and those who stayed in their native lands and continued to hold on to their own culture.\n\nLater German nationalists were able to define their nation more precisely, especially following the rise of Prussia and formation of the German Empire in 1871 which gave the majority of the German-speakers in Europe a common political, economic and educational framework. In the late 19th century and early 20th century, some German nationalist added elements of racial ideology, ultimately culminating in the Nuremberg Laws, sections of which sought to determine by law and genetics who was to be considered German.\n\nIt was not until the concept of nationalism itself was developed by German philosopher Johann Gottfried Herder that German nationalism began. German nationalism was Romantic in nature and was based upon the principles of collective self-determination, territorial unification and cultural identity, and a political and cultural programme to achieve those ends. The German Romantic nationalism derived from the Enlightenment era philosopher Jean Jacques Rousseau's and French Revolutionary philosopher Emmanuel-Joseph Sieyès' ideas of naturalism and that legitimate nations must have been conceived in the state of nature. This emphasis on the naturalness of ethno-linguistic nations continued to be upheld by the early-19th-century Romantic German nationalists Johann Gottlieb Fichte, Ernst Moritz Arndt, and Friedrich Ludwig Jahn, who all were proponents of Pan-Germanism.\n\nThe invasion of the Holy Roman Empire (HRE) by Napoleon's French Empire and its subsequent dissolution brought about a German liberal nationalism as advocated primarily by the German middle-class bourgeoisie who advocated the creation of a modern German nation-state based upon liberal democracy, constitutionalism, representation, and popular sovereignty while opposing absolutism. Fichte in particular brought German nationalism forward as a response to the French occupation of German territories in his \"Addresses to the German Nation\" (1808), evoking a sense of German distinctiveness in language, tradition, and literature that composed a common identity.\n\nAfter the defeat of France in the Napoleonic Wars at the Congress of Vienna, German nationalists tried but failed to establish Germany as a nation-state, instead the German Confederation was created that was a loose collection of independent German states that lacked strong federal institutions. Economic integration between the German states was achieved by the creation of the \"Zollverein\" (\"Custom Union\") of Germany in 1818 that existed until 1866. The move to create the \"Zollverein\" was led by Prussia and the Zollverein was dominated by Prussia, causing resentment and tension between Austria and Prussia.\n\nThe Revolutions of 1848 led to revolution in various German states. Nationalists did seize power in a number of German states and an all-German parliament was created in Frankfurt in May 1848. The Frankfurt Parliament attempted to create a national constitution for all German states but rivalry between Prussian and Austrian interests resulted in proponents of the parliament advocating a \"small German\" solution (a monarchical German nation-state without Austria) with the imperial crown of Germany being granted to the King of Prussia. The King of Prussia refused the offer and efforts to create a leftist German nation-state faltered and collapsed.\n\nIn the aftermath of the failed attempt to establish a liberal German nation-state, rivalry between Prussia and Austria intensified under the agenda of Prussian Chancellor Otto von Bismarck who blocked all attempts by Austria to join the \"Zollverein\". A division developed among German nationalists, with one group led by the Prussians that supported a \"Lesser Germany\" that excluded Austria and another group that supported a \"Greater Germany\" that included Austria. The Prussians sought a Lesser Germany to allow Prussia to assert hegemony over Germany that would not be guaranteed in a Greater Germany. This was a major propaganda point later asserted by Hitler\n\nBy the late 1850s German nationalists emphasized military solutions. The mood was fed by hatred of the French, a fear of Russia, a rejection of the 1815 Vienna settlement, and a cult of patriotic hero-warriors. War seemed to be a desirable means of speeding up change and progress. Nationalists thrilled to the image of the entire people in arms. Bismarck harnessed the national movement's martial pride and desire for unity and glory to weaken the political threat the liberal opposition posed to Prussia's conservatism.\n\nUnlike the prior German nationalism of 1848 that was based upon liberal values, the German nationalism utilized by supporters of the German Empire was based upon Prussian authoritarianism, and was conservative, reactionary, anti-Catholic, anti-liberal and anti-socialist in nature. The German Empire's supporters advocated a Germany based upon Prussian and Protestant cultural dominance. This German nationalism focused on German identity based upon the historical crusading Teutonic Order. These nationalists supported a German national identity claimed to be based on Bismarck's ideals that included Teutonic values of willpower, loyalty, honesty, and perseverance.\n\nThe Catholic-Protestant divide in Germany at times created extreme tension and hostility between Catholic and Protestant Germans after 1871, such as in response to the policy of \"Kulturkampf\" in Prussia by German Chancellor and Prussian Prime Minister Otto von Bismarck, that sought to dismantle Catholic culture in Prussia, that provoked outrage amongst Germany's Catholics and resulted in the rise of the pro-Catholic Centre Party and the Bavarian People's Party.\n\nThere have been rival nationalists within Germany, particularly Bavarian nationalists who claim that the terms that Bavaria entered into Germany in 1871 were controversial and have claimed the German government has long intruded into the domestic affairs of Bavaria.\n\nGerman nationalists in the German Empire who advocated a Greater Germany during the Bismarck era focused on overcoming dissidence by Protestant Germans to the inclusion of Catholic Germans in the state by creating the \"Los von Rom!\" (\"Away from Rome!\") movement that advocated assimilation of Catholic Germans to Protestantism. During the time of the German Empire, a third faction of German nationalists (especially in the Austrian parts of the Austria-Hungary Empire) advocated a strong desire for a Greater Germany but, unlike earlier concepts, led by Prussia instead of Austria; they were known as \"Alldeutsche\".\n\nSocial Darwinism, messianism, and racialism began to become themes used by German nationalists after 1871 based on the concepts of a people's community (\"Volksgemeinschaft\").\n\nAn important element of German nationalism as promoted by the government and intellectual elite was the emphasis on Germany asserting itself as a world economic and military power, aimed at competing with France and the British Empire for world power. German colonial rule in Africa 1884–1914 was an expression of nationalism and moral superiority that was justified by constructing employing an image of the natives as \"Other\". This approach highlighted racist views of mankind. German colonization was characterized by the use of repressive violence in the name of ‘culture’ and ‘civilization’, concepts that had their origins in the Enlightenment. Germany's cultural-missionary project boasted that its colonial programs were humanitarian and educational endeavors. Furthermore, the wide acceptance among intellectuals of social Darwinism justified Germany's right to acquire colonial territories as a matter of the ‘survival of the fittest’, according to historian Michael Schubert.\n\nThe government established after WWI, the Weimar republic, established a law of nationality that was based on pre-unification notions of the German volk as an ethno-racial group defined more by heredity than modern notions of citizenship; the laws were intended to include Germans who had immigrated and to exclude immigrant groups. These laws remained the basis of German citizenship laws until after reunification.\n\nThe government and economy of the Weimar republic was weak; Germans were dissatisfied with the government, the punitive conditions of war reparations and territorial losses of the Treaty of Versailles as well as the effects of hyperinflation. Economic, social, and political cleavages fragmented Germany's society. Eventually the Weimar Republic collapsed under these pressures and the political maneuverings of leading German officials and politicians.\n\nThe Nazi Party (NSDAP), led by Austrian-born Adolf Hitler, believed in an extreme form of German nationalism. The first point of the Nazi 25-point programme was that \"We demand the unification of all Germans in the Greater Germany on the basis of the people's right to self-determination\". Hitler, an Austrian-German by birth, began to develop his strong patriotic German nationalist views from a very young age. He was greatly influenced by many other Austrian pan-German nationalists in Austria-Hungary, notably Georg Ritter von Schönerer and Karl Lueger. Hitler's pan-German ideas envisioned a Greater German Reich which was to include the Austrian Germans, Sudeten Germans and other ethnic Germans. The annexing of Austria \"(Anschluss)\" and the Sudetenland \"(annexing of Sudetenland)\" completed Nazi Germany's desire to the German nationalism of the German Volksdeutsche (people/folk).\n\nAfter WWII, the German nation was divided in two states, West Germany and East Germany, and some former German territories east of the Oder–Neisse line were made part of Poland. The Basic Law for the Federal Republic of Germany which served as the constitution for West Germany was conceived and written as a provisional document, with the hope of reuniting East and West Germany in mind.\n\nThe formation of the European Economic Community, and latterly the European Union, was driven in part by forces inside and outside Germany that sought to embed Germany identity more deeply in a broader European identity, in a kind of \"collaborative nationalism\".\n\nThe reunification of Germany became a central theme in West German politics, and was made a central tenet of the East German Socialist Unity Party of Germany, albeit in the context of a Marxist vision of history in which the government of West Germany would be swept away in a proletarian revolution.\n\nThe question of Germans and former German territory in Poland, as well as the status of Königsberg as part of Russia, remained hard, with people in West Germany advocating to take that territory back through the 1960s. East Germany confirmed the border with Poland in 1950, while West Germany, after a period of refusal, finally accepted the border (with reservations) in 1970.\n\nThe desire of the German people to be one nation again remained strong, but was accompanied by a feeling of hopelessness through the 1970s and into the 1980s; Die Wende, when it arrived in the late 1980s driven by the East German people, came as a surprise, leading to the 1990 elections which put a government in place that negotiated the Treaty on the Final Settlement with Respect to Germany and reunited East and West Germany, and the process of inner reunification began.\n\nThe reunification was opposed in several quarters both inside and outside Germany, including Margaret Thatcher, Jürgen Habermas, and Günter Grass, out of fear of that a united Germany might resume its aggression toward other countries. Just prior to reunification West Germany had gone through a national debate, called Historikerstreit, over how to regard its Nazi past, with one side claiming that there was nothing specifically German about Nazism, and that the German people should let go its shame over the past and look forward, proud of its national identity, and others holding that Nazism grew out of German identity and the nation needed to remain responsible for its past and guard carefully against any recrudescence of Nazism. This debate did not give comfort to those concerned about whether a reunited Germany might be a danger to other countries, nor did the rise of skinhead neo-nazi groups in the former East Germany, as exemplified by riots in Hoyerswerda in 1991. An identity-based nationalist backlash arose after unification as people reached backward to answer \"the German question\", leading to violence by four Neo-Nazi/far-right parties which were all banned by Germany's Federal Constitutional Court after committing or inciting violence: the Nationalist Front, National Offensive, German Alternative, and the Kamaradenbund.\n\nOne of the key questions for the reunified government, was how to define a German citizen. The laws inherited from the Weimar republic that based citizenship on heredity had been taken to their extreme by the Nazis and were unpalatable and fed the ideology of German far-right nationalist parties like the National Democratic Party of Germany (NDP) which was founded in 1964 from other far-right groups. Additionally, West Germany had received large numbers of immigrants (especially Turks), membership in the European Union meant that people could move more or less freely across national borders within Europe, and due to its declining birthrate even united Germany needed to receive about 300,000 immigrants per year in order to maintain its workforce. (Germany had been importing workers ever since its post-war \"economic miracle\" through its Gastarbeiter program.) The Christian Democratic Union/Christian Social Union government that was elected throughout the 1990s did not change the laws, but around 2000 a new coalition led by the Social Democratic Party of Germany came to power and made changes to the law defining who was a German based on \"jus soli\" rather than \"jus sanguinis\".\n\nThe issue of how to address its Turkish population has remained a difficult issue in Germany; many Turks have not integrated and have formed a parallel society inside Germany, and issues of using education or legal penalties to drive integration have roiled Germany from time to time, and issues of what a \"German\" is, accompany debates about \"the Turkish question\".\n\nPride in being German remained a difficult issue; one of the surprises of the 2006 FIFA World Cup which was held in Germany, were widespread displays of national pride by Germans, which seemed to take even the Germans themselves by surprise and cautious delight.\n\nGermany's role in managing the European debt crisis, especially with regard to the Greek government-debt crisis, led to criticism from some quarters, especially within Greece, of Germany wielding its power in a harsh and authoritarian way that was reminiscent of its authoritarian past and identity.\n\nTensions over the European debt crisis and the European migrant crisis and the rise of right-wing populism sharpened questions of German identity around 2010. The Alternative for Germany party was created in 2013 as a backlash against further European integration and bailouts of other countries during the European debt crisis; from its founding to 2017 the party took on nationalist and populist stances, rejecting German guilt over the Nazi era and calling for Germans to take pride in their history and accomplishments. In the 2014 European Parliament election, the NDP won their first ever seat in the European Parliament.\n\nAfter the Revolutions of 1848/49, in which the liberal nationalistic revolutionaries advocated the Greater German solution, the Austrian defeat in the Austro-Prussian War (1866) with the effect that Austria was now excluded from Germany, and increasing ethnic conflicts in the Habsburg Monarchy of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, a German national movement evolved in Austria. Led by the radical German nationalist and anti-semite Georg von Schönerer, organisations like the \"Pan-German Society\" demanded the link-up of all German-speaking territories of the Danube Monarchy to the German Empire, and decidedly rejected Austrian patriotism. Schönerer's völkisch and racist German nationalism was an inspiration to Hitler's ideology. In 1933, Austrian Nazis and the national-liberal Greater German People's Party formed an action group, fighting together against the Austrofascist regime which imposed a distinct Austrian national identity. Whilst it violated the Treaty of Versailles terms, Hitler, a native of Austria, unified the two German states together \"(Anschluss)\" in 1938. This meant the historic aim of Austria's German nationalists was achieved and a Greater German Reich briefly existed until the end of the war. After 1945, the German national camp was revived in the Federation of Independents and the Freedom Party of Austria.\n\nIn addition to a form of nationalism in Austria that looked toward Germany, there have also been forms of Austrian nationalism that rejected unification of Austria with Germany on the basis of preserving Austrians' Catholic religious identity from the potential danger posed by being part of a Protestant-majority Germany, as well as their different historical heritage regarding their mainly Celtic, Slavic, Avar, Rhaethian and Roman origin prior to the colonization of the Bavarii.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39237584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39237584", "title": "Gibraltar House", "text": "Gibraltar House\n\nThe Representative of Gibraltar in Aldwych, London is the diplomatic mission of the British Overseas Territory of Gibraltar in the United Kingdom, also referred to as Gibraltar House. Located on Strand, it works like an informal consulate, tourist information centre about the British rule on Gibraltar and deals with the needs of Gibraltarian patients sent over by the Gibraltar Health Authority for medical treatment in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe first Gibraltar House, a small tourist information office, was opened in Northumberland Avenue, London, in the early 1970s. The first Director was Helen Gordon. A subsequent Gibraltar Tourist Office was opened in Trafalgar Square, under the command of John Joe Gomez. Soon after, it opened a much larger office at 179 Strand, directed by Jose Rosado and later by Richard Garcia. In 1989, Albert Poggio took over as Director, a position which he has held to this date (he was briefly replaced by Peter Canessa between 2011 and 2012). In 2009, the Gibraltar House moved to its current location at 150 Strand.\n\nAlthough Albert Poggio had not become Director of the House until 1989, he had been suggesting the creation of a \"social centre\" in London since 1969, due to the work that he developed as Chairman of the Gibraltar Group, which congregated Gibraltarian expatriates in London.\n\n"}
{"id": "55551404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55551404", "title": "Heaven Without People", "text": "Heaven Without People\n\nHeaven Without People; ) is the debut feature-length film written and directed by Lucien Bourjeily. It premiered in the main Muhr Awards competition section of the 14th Dubai International Film Festival and won the Special Jury Prize award. . It went on to win the Global Vision Award at the 2018 Cinequest Film Festival and both the \"Special Jury Prize\" and \"Ensemble Cast\" award at the Festival des cinémas arabes à Paris. Furthermore, it competed in many international film festivals and was nominated for the Jordan Ressler award at the 2018 Miami International Film Festival, the Critics' Choice Award at the 2018 Hamburg Film Festival and the Best World Fiction film award at the 2018 LA Film Festival.\n\n\"When a large family comes together for the first time in two years over Easter lunch, tensions bubble to the surface in surprising ways as they navigate an unforeseen conflict that threatens to derail their reunion. Older and younger generations clash as each of the family members confront their own political and moral hypocrisies and slowly unravel the ties that bind.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "8339953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8339953", "title": "Hijas del Sol", "text": "Hijas del Sol\n\nHijas del Sol (Spanish, Daughters of the Sun), namely Piruchi Apo Botupá and Paloma Loribo Apo, are an aunt and niece duo from the island of Bioko in Equatorial Guinea who write, sing, and perform songs in both Bube and Spanish.\n\nThey first performed together in 1992 for a competition in \"el Centro Cultural Hispano Guineano\", where they won prizes for best original song and best choreography. That year they also performed for the first time in Spain at both the Expo de Sevilla and in the Festival de la OTI.\n\nTheir debut album \"Sibèba\" (1995) is a blend of more traditional Bube music and their own compositions, sung in both Bube and Spanish. \"Sibèba\" (\"aquello que se quiere conseguir\"), can be translated as, \"a place of salvation reserved for the best\" and the album tells of the traditions of both Bube culture and Catholics religion as well as the problems that immigrants encounter in modern-day Spain. fRoots placed the album at No.1 in its annual listing for 1995 and the album was also released throughout Europe, the US, Canada and Japan.\n"}
{"id": "51314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51314", "title": "History of Antarctica", "text": "History of Antarctica\n\nThe history of Antarctica emerges from early Western theories of a vast continent, known as Terra Australis, believed to exist in the far south of the globe. The term \"Antarctic\", referring to the opposite of the Arctic Circle, was coined by Marinus of Tyre in the 2nd century AD.\n\nThe rounding of the Cape of Good Hope and Cape Horn in the 15th and 16th centuries proved that \"Terra Australis Incognita\" (\"Unknown Southern Land\"), if it existed, was a continent in its own right. In 1773 James Cook and his crew crossed the Antarctic Circle for the first time but although they discovered nearby islands, they did not catch sight of Antarctica itself. It is believed he was as close as 150 mi (241.4 km) from the mainland.\n\nIn 1819, a few of the 644 crew of the wrecked Spanish ship of the line San Telmo with 74 cannons might have been the first men to set foot on Antarctica before probably dying of hypothermia - but there is no proof that they did. A year later on the 27th of January, 1820 a Russian expedition led by Fabian Gottlieb von Bellingshausen and Mikhail Lazarev discovered an ice shelf at Princess Martha Coast that later became known as the Fimbul Ice Shelf. Bellingshausen and Lazarev became the first explorers to see and officially discover the land of Antarctica continent. Three days later, on 30 January 1820, a British expedition captained by Edward Bransfield sighted Trinity Peninsula, and ten months later an American sealer Nathaniel Palmer sighted Antarctica on 17 November 1820. The first landing was probably just over a year later when American Captain John Davis, a sealer, set foot on the ice.\n\nSeveral expeditions attempted to reach the South Pole in the early 20th century, during the 'Heroic Age of Antarctic Exploration'. Many resulted in injury and death. Norwegian Roald Amundsen finally reached the Pole on 13 December 1911, following a dramatic race with the Englishman Robert Falcon Scott.\n\nAristotle speculated, \"Now since there must be a region bearing the same relation to the southern pole as the place we live in bears to our pole...\".\n\nIt was not until Prince Henry the Navigator began in 1418 to encourage the penetration of the torrid zone in the effort to reach India by circumnavigating Africa that European exploration of the southern hemisphere began. In 1473 Portuguese navigator Lopes Gonçalves proved that the equator could be crossed, and cartographers and sailors began to assume the existence of another, temperate continent to the south of the known world.\n\nThe doubling of the Cape of Good Hope in 1487 by Bartolomeu Dias first brought explorers within touch of the Antarctic cold, and proved that there was an ocean separating Africa from any Antarctic land that might exist.\n\nFerdinand Magellan, who passed through the Straits of Magellan in 1520, assumed that the islands of Tierra del Fuego to the south were an extension of this unknown southern land, and it appeared as such on a map by Ortelius: \"Terra australis recenter inventa sed nondum plene cognita\" (\"Southern land recently discovered but not yet fully known\").\nEuropean geographers connected the coast of Tierra del Fuego with the coast of New Guinea on their globes, and allowing their imaginations to run riot in the vast unknown spaces of the south Atlantic, south Indian and Pacific oceans they sketched the outlines of the \"Terra Australis Incognita\" (\"Unknown Southern Land\"), a vast continent stretching in parts into the tropics. The search for this great south land or Third World was a leading motive of explorers in the 16th and the early part of the 17th centuries.\nIn 1599, according to the account of Jacob le Maire, the Dutch Dirck Gerritsz Pomp observed mountainous land at latitude (64°). If so, these were the South Shetland Islands, and possibly the first European sighting of Antarctica (or offshore-lying islands belonging to it). Other accounts, however, do not note this observation, casting doubt on their accuracy. It has been argued that the Spaniard Gabriel de Castilla claimed to have sighted \"snow-covered mountains\" beyond the 64° S in 1603, but this claim is not generally recognized.\n\nQuirós in 1606 took possession for the king of Spain all of the lands he had discovered in Australia del Espiritu Santo (the New Hebrides) and those he would discover \"even to the Pole\".\n\nFrancis Drake like Spanish explorers before him had speculated that there might be an open channel south of Tierra del Fuego. Indeed, when Schouten and Le Maire discovered the southern extremity of Tierra del Fuego and named it Cape Horn in 1615, they proved that the Tierra del Fuego archipelago was of small extent and not connected to the southern land.\n\nFinally, in 1642 Tasman showed that even New Holland (Australia) was separated by sea from any continuous southern continent. Voyagers round the Horn frequently met with contrary winds and were driven southward into snowy skies and ice-encumbered seas; but so far as can be ascertained none of them before 1770 reached the Antarctic Circle, or knew it, if they did.\n\nThe visit to South Georgia by the English merchant Anthony de la Roché in 1675 was the first ever discovery of land south of the Antarctic Convergence. Soon after the voyage cartographers started to depict ‘Roché Island’, honouring the discoverer.\n\nJames Cook was aware of la Roché's discovery when surveying and mapping the island in 1775.\n\nEdmond Halley's voyage in HMS \"Paramour\" for magnetic investigations in the South Atlantic met the pack ice in 52° S in January 1700, but that latitude (he reached 140 mi off the north coast of South Georgia) was his farthest south. A determined effort on the part of the French naval officer Jean-Baptiste Charles Bouvet de Lozier to discover the \"South Land\" – described by a half legendary \"sieur de Gonneyville\" – resulted in the discovery of Bouvet Island in 54°10′ S, and in the navigation of 48° of longitude of ice-cumbered sea nearly in 55° S in 1730 .\n\nIn 1771, Yves Joseph Kerguelen sailed from France with instructions to proceed south from Mauritius in search of \"a very large continent.\" He lighted upon a land in 50° S which he called South France, and believed to be the central mass of the southern continent. He was sent out again to complete the exploration of the new land, and found it to be only an inhospitable island which he renamed the Isle of Desolation, but which was ultimately named after him.\n\nThe obsession of the undiscovered continent culminated in the brain of Alexander Dalrymple, the brilliant and erratic hydrographer who was nominated by the Royal Society to command the Transit of Venus expedition to Tahiti in 1769. The command of the expedition was given by the admiralty to Captain James Cook. Sailing in 1772 with the \"Resolution\", a vessel of 462 tons under his own command and the \"Adventure\" of 336 tons under Captain Tobias Furneaux, Cook first searched in vain for Bouvet Island, then sailed for 20 degrees of longitude to the westward in latitude 58° S, and then 30° eastward for the most part south of 60° S, a higher southern latitude than had ever been voluntarily entered before by any vessel. On 17 January 1773 the Antarctic Circle was crossed for the first time in history and the two ships reached by , where their course was stopped by ice.\n\nCook then turned northward to look for French Southern and Antarctic Lands, of the discovery of which he had received news at Cape Town, but from the rough determination of his longitude by Kerguelen, Cook reached the assigned latitude 10° too far east and did not see it. He turned south again and was stopped by ice in by 95° E and continued eastward nearly on the parallel of 60° S to 147° E. On 16 March, the approaching winter drove him northward for rest to New Zealand and the tropical islands of the Pacific. In November 1773, Cook left New Zealand, having parted company with the \"Adventure\", and reached 60° S by 177° W, whence he sailed eastward keeping as far south as the floating ice allowed. The Antarctic Circle was crossed on 20 December and Cook remained south of it for three days, being compelled after reaching to stand north again in 135° W.\n\nA long detour to served to show that there was no land connection between New Zealand and Tierra del Fuego. Turning south again, Cook crossed the Antarctic Circle for the third time at before his progress was once again blocked by ice four days later at by . This point, reached on 30 January 1774, was the farthest south attained in the 18th century. With a great detour to the east, almost to the coast of South America, the expedition regained Tahiti for refreshment. In November 1774, Cook started from New Zealand and crossed the South Pacific without sighting land between 53° and 57° S to Tierra del Fuego; then, passing Cape Horn on 29 December, he rediscovered Roché Island renaming it Isle of Georgia, and discovered the South Sandwich Islands (named \"Sandwich Land\" by him), the only ice-clad land he had seen, before crossing the South Atlantic to the Cape of Good Hope between 55° and 60°. He thereby laid open the way for future Antarctic exploration by exploding the myth of a habitable southern continent. Cook's most southerly discovery of land lay on the temperate side of the 60th parallel, and he convinced himself that if land lay farther south it was practically inaccessible and of no economic value.\n\nIt has been claimed that in 1819, the 644 crew of Spanish 3rd rate frigate San Telmo with 74 cannons were the first men to set foot on Antartica before dying of hypothermia. The San Telmo set sail from Cadiz in 1819 setting course for Callao, Peru to reinforce the Royalist Army with 644 crewmen, along with an escort flotilla of 3 other ships, only of which two made it.\n\nThe first land south of the parallel 60° south latitude was discovered by the Englishman William Smith, who sighted Livingston Island on 19 February 1819. A few months later Smith returned to explore the other islands of the South Shetlands archipelago, landed on King George Island, and claimed the new territories for Britain.\n\nThe first confirmed sighting of mainland Antarctica on 27 January 1820 is attributed to Russian expedition led by Fabian Gottlieb von Bellingshausen and Mikhail Lazarev, discovering an ice shelf at Princess Martha Coast that later became known as the Fimbul Ice Shelf. Bellingshausen and Lazarev became the first explorers to see and officially discover the land of Antarctica continent.\n\nIt is certain that the expedition, led by von Bellingshausen and Lazarev on the ships \"Vostok\" and \"Mirny\", reached on 28 January 1820 a point within from Princess Martha Coast and recorded the sight of an ice shelf at that became known as the Fimbul ice shelf. On 30 January 1820, Edward Bransfield sighted Trinity Peninsula, the northernmost point of the Antarctic mainland. Von Bellingshausen's expedition also discovered Peter I Island and Alexander I Island, the first islands to be discovered south of the circle.\n\nThe first landing on the Antarctic mainland is thought to have been made by the American Captain John Davis, a sealer, who claimed to have set foot there on 7 February 1821, though this is not accepted by all historians.\n\nIn November 1820, Nathaniel Palmer, an American sealer looking for seal breeding grounds, sighted what is now known as the Antarctic Peninsula, located between 55 and 80 degrees west. In 1823, James Weddell, a British sealer, sailed into what is now known as the Weddell Sea. Until the twentieth century, most expeditions were for commercial purpose, to look for the prospects of seal and whale hunting. A piece of wood, from the South Shetland Islands, was the first fossil ever recorded from Antarctica, obtained during a private United States expedition during 1829-31, commanded by Captain Benjamin Pendleton.\n\nCharles Wilkes, as commander of a United States Navy expedition in 1840, discovered what is now known as Wilkes Land, a section of the continent around 120 degrees East.\n\nAfter the North Magnetic Pole was located in 1831, explorers and scientists began looking for the South Magnetic Pole. One of the explorers, James Clark Ross, a British naval officer, identified its approximate location, but was unable to reach it on his 4 year-expedition from 1839 to 1843. Commanding the British ships \"Erebus\" and \"Terror\", he braved the pack ice and approached what is now known as the Ross Ice Shelf, a massive floating ice shelf over high. His expedition sailed eastward along the southern Antarctic coast discovering mountains which were since named after his ships: Mount Erebus, the most active volcano on Antarctica, and Mount Terror.\nThe first documented landing on the mainland of East Antarctica was at Victoria Land by the American sealer Mercator Cooper on 26 January 1853.\n\nThese explorers, despite their impressive contributions to South Polar exploration, were unable to penetrate the interior of the continent and, rather, formed a broken line of discovered lands along the coastline of Antarctica. Following the expedition South by the ships \"Erebus\" and \"Terror\" under James Clark Ross (January, 1841), he suggested that there were no scientific discoveries, or 'problems', worth exploration in the far South. What followed, is what historian H.R. Mill called 'the age of averted interest' and in the following twenty years after Ross' return, there was a general lull internationally in Antarctic exploration.\n\nThe Heroic Age of Antarctic Exploration began at the end of the 19th century and closed with Ernest Shackleton's Imperial Trans-Antarctic Expedition in 1917.\n\nDuring this period the Antarctic continent became the focus of an international effort that resulted in intensive scientific and geographical exploration and in which 17 major Antarctic expeditions were launched from ten countries.\n\nThe initial impetus for the Heroic Age of Antarctic Exploration was a lecture given by Dr. John Murray entitled \"The Renewal of Antarctic Exploration\", given to the Royal Geographical Society in London, 27 November 1893. Murray advocated that research into the Antarctic should be organised to \"resolve the outstanding geographical questions still posed in the south\". Furthermore, the Royal Geographical Society instated an Antarctic Committee shortly prior to this, in 1887, which successfully encouraged many whalers to explore the Southern regions of the world and laid the groundwork for the lecture given by Murray.\n\nThe Norwegian ship Antarctic was put ashore at Cape Adare, on 24 January 1895.\n\nIn August 1895 the Sixth International Geographical Congress in London passed a general resolution calling on scientific societies throughout the world to promote the cause of Antarctic exploration \"in whatever ways seem to them most effective\". Such work would \"bring additions to almost every branch of science\". The Congress had been addressed by the Norwegian Carsten Borchgrevink, who had just returned from a whaling expedition during which he had become one of the first to set foot on the Antarctic mainland. During his address, Borchgrevink outlined plans for a full-scale pioneering Antarctic expedition, to be based at Cape Adare.\nThe Heroic Age was inaugurated by an expedition launched by the Belgian Geographical Society in 1897; Borchgrevink followed a year later with a privately sponsored British expedition. (Some histories consider the \"Discovery\" expedition, which departed in 1901, as the first proper expedition of the Heroic Age.)\n\nThe Belgian Antarctic Expedition was led by Belgian Adrian de Gerlache. In 1898, they became the first men to spend winter on Antarctica, when their ship Belgica became trapped in the ice. They became stuck on 28 February 1898, and only managed to get out of the ice on 14 March 1899.\n\nDuring their forced stay, several men lost their sanity, not only because of the Antarctic winter night and the endured hardship, but also because of the language problems between the different nationalities. This was the first expedition to overwinter within the Antarctic Circle, and they visited the South Shetland Islands.\n\nThe Southern Cross Expedition began in 1898 and lasted for two years. This was the first expedition to overwinter on the Antarctic mainland (Cape Adare) and was the first to make use of dogs and sledges. It made the first ascent of The Great Ice Barrier, (The Great Ice Barrier later became formally known as the Ross Ice Shelf). The expedition set a Farthest South record at 78°30'S. It also calculated the location of the South Magnetic Pole.\n\nThe Discovery Expedition was then launched, from 1901–04 and was led by Robert Falcon Scott. It made the first ascent of the Western Mountains in Victoria Land, and discovered the polar plateau. Its southern journey set a new Farthest South record, 82°17'S. Many other geographical features were discovered, mapped and named. This was the first of several expeditions based in McMurdo Sound.\nA year later, the Scottish National Antarctic Expedition was launched, headed by William Speirs Bruce. 'Ormond House' was established as a meteorological observatory on Laurie Island in the South Orkneys and was the first permanent base in Antarctica. The Weddell Sea was penetrated to 74°01'S, and the coastline of Coats Land was discovered, defining the sea's eastern limits.\n\nErnest Shackleton, who had been a member of Scott's expedition, organized and led the Nimrod Expedition from 1907 to 1909. The expedition's primary objective was of reaching the South Pole. Based in McMurdo Sound, the expedition pioneered the Beardmore Glacier route to the South Pole, and the (limited) use of motorised transport. Its southern march reached 88°23'S, a new Farthest South record 97 geographical miles from the Pole before having to turn back. During the expedition, Shackleton was the first to reach the polar plateau. Parties led by T. W. Edgeworth David also became the first to climb Mount Erebus and to reach the South Magnetic Pole.\n\nThe First German Antarctic Expedition was sent to investigate eastern Antarctica in 1901. It discovered the coast of Kaiser Wilhelm II Land, and Mount Gauss. The expedition's ship became trapped in ice, however, which prevented more extensive exploration.\n\nThe Swedish Antarctic Expedition, operating at the same time worked in the east coastal area of Graham Land, and was marooned on Snow Hill Island and Paulet Island in the Weddell Sea, after the sinking of its expedition ship. It was rescued by the Argentinian naval vessel \"Uruguay\".\n\nThe French organized their first expedition in 1903 under the leadership of Jean-Baptiste Charcot. Originally intended as a relief expedition for the stranded Nordenskiöld party, the main work of this expedition was the mapping and charting of islands and the western coasts of Graham Land, on the Antarctic peninsula. A section of the coast was explored, and named Loubet Land after the President of France.\n\nA follow up trip was organized from 1908–10 which continued the earlier work of the French expedition with a general exploration of the Bellingshausen Sea, and the discovery of islands and other features, including Marguerite Bay, Charcot Island, Renaud Island, Mikkelsen Bay, Rothschild Island.\n\nThe prize of the Heroic age was to reach the South Pole. Two expeditions set off in 1910 to attain this goal; a party led by Norwegian polar explorer Roald Amundsen from the ship \"Fram\" and Robert Falcon Scott's British group from the \"Terra Nova\".\n\nAmundsen succeeded in reaching the Pole on 14 December 1911 using a route from the Bay of Whales to the polar plateau via the Axel Heiberg Glacier.\n\nScott and his four companions reached the South Pole via the Beardmore route on 17 January 1912, 33 days after Amundsen. All five died on the return journey from the Pole, through a combination of starvation and cold. The Amundsen–Scott South Pole Station was later named after these two men.\n\nThe Australasian Antarctic Expedition took place between 1911-1914 and was led by Sir Douglas Mawson. It concentrated on the stretch of Antarctic coastline between Cape Adare and Mount Gauss, carrying out mapping and survey work on coastal and inland territories.\n\nDiscoveries included Commonwealth Bay, Ninnis Glacier, Mertz Glacier, and Queen Mary Land. Major accomplishments were made in geology, glaciology and terrestrial biology.\n\nThe Imperial Trans-Antarctic Expedition of 1914-1917 was led by Ernest Shackleton and set out to cross the continent via the South pole. However, their ship, the \"Endurance\", was trapped and crushed by pack ice in the Weddell Sea before they were able to land. The expedition members survived after a journey on sledges over pack ice, a prolonged drift on an ice-floe, and a voyage in three small boats to Elephant Island. Then Shackleton and five others crossed the Southern Ocean in an open boat called \"James Caird\" and made the first crossing of South Georgia to raise the alarm at the whaling station Grytviken.\n\nA related component of the Trans-Antarctic Expedition was the Ross Sea party, led by Aeneas Mackintosh. Its objective was to lay depots across the Great Ice Barrier, in order to supply Shackleton's party crossing from the Weddell Sea. All the required depots were laid, but in the process three men, including the leader Mackintosh, lost their lives.\n\nShackleton's last expedition and the one that brought the 'Heroic Age' to a close, was the Shackleton–Rowett Expedition from 1921-1922 on board the ship \"Quest\". Its vaguely defined objectives included coastal mapping, a possible continental circumnavigation, the investigation of sub-Antarctic islands, and oceanographic work. After Shackleton's death on 5 January 1922, \"Quest\" completed a shortened programme before returning home.| \n\nAfter Shackleton's last expedition, there was a hiatus in Antarctic exploration for about seven years. From 1929, aircraft and mechanized transportation were increasingly used, earning this period the sobriquet of the 'Mechanical Age'. Hubert Wilkins first visited Antarctica in 1921-1922 as an ornithologist attached to the Shackleton-Rowett Expedition. From 1927, Wilkins and pilot Carl Ben Eielson began exploring the Arctic by aircraft.\n\nOn 15 April 1928, only a year after Charles Lindbergh's flight across the Atlantic, Wilkins and Eielson made a trans-Arctic crossing from Point Barrow, Alaska, to Spitsbergen, arriving about 20 hours later on 16 April, touching along the way at Grant Land on Ellesmere Island. For this feat and his prior work, Wilkins was knighted.\n\nWith financial backing from William Randolph Hearst, Wilkins returned to the South Pole and flew over Antarctica in the \"San Francisco\". He named the island of Hearst Land after his sponsor.\n\nUS Navy Rear Admiral Richard Evelyn Byrd led five expeditions to Antarctica during the 1930s, 1940s, and 1950s. He overflew the South Pole with pilot Bernt Balchen on 28 and 29 November 1929, to match his overflight of the North Pole in 1926. Byrd's explorations had science as a major objective and extensively used the aircraft to explore the continent.\n\nCaptain Finn Ronne, Byrd's executive officer, returned to Antarctica with his own expedition in 1947–1948, with Navy support, three planes, and dogs. Ronne disproved the notion that the continent was divided in two and established that East and West Antarctica was one single continent, i.e. that the Weddell Sea and the Ross Sea are not connected. The expedition explored and mapped large parts of Palmer Land and the Weddell Sea coastline, and identified the Ronne Ice Shelf, named by Ronne after his wife Edith Ronne. Ronne covered 3,600 miles by ski and dog sled—more than any other explorer in history.\n\nThe 1955–58 Commonwealth Trans-Antarctic Expedition successfully completed the first overland crossing of Antarctica, via the South Pole. Although supported by the British and other Commonwealth governments, most of the funding came from corporate and individual donations.\n\nIt was headed by British explorer Dr Vivian Fuchs, with New Zealander Sir Edmund Hillary leading the New Zealand Ross Sea Support team. After spending the winter of 1957 at Shackleton Base, Fuchs finally set out on the transcontinental journey in November 1957, with a twelve-man team travelling in six vehicles; three Sno-Cats, two Weasels and one specially adapted \"Muskeg\" tractor. En route, the team were also tasked with carrying out scientific research including seismic soundings and gravimetric readings.\n\nIn parallel Hillary's team had set up Scott Basewhich was to be Fuchs' final destinationon the opposite side of the continent at McMurdo Sound on the Ross Sea. Using three converted Massey Ferguson TE20 tractors and one Weasel (abandoned part-way), Hillary and his three men (Ron Balham, Peter Mulgrew and Murray Ellis), were responsible for route-finding and laying a line of supply depots up the Skelton Glacier and across the Polar Plateau on towards the South Pole, for the use of Fuchs on the final leg of his journey. Other members of Hillary's team carried out geological surveys around the Ross Sea and Victoria Land areas.\n\nHillary's party reached the South Pole on 3 January 1958, and was just the third (preceded by Amundsen in 1911 and Scott in 1912) to reach the Pole overland. Fuchs' team reached the Pole from the opposite direction on 19 January 1958, where they met up with Hillary. Fuchs then continued overland, following the route that Hillary had laid and on 2 March succeeded in reaching Scott Base, completing the first overland crossing of the continent by land via the South Pole.\n\nThe United Kingdom reasserted sovereignty over the Falkland Islands in the far South Atlantic in 1833 and maintained a continuous presence there. In 1908, the British government extended its territorial claim by declaring sovereignty over \"South Georgia, the South Orkneys, the South Shetlands, and the Sandwich Islands, and Graham's Land, situated in the South Atlantic Ocean and on the Antarctic continent to the south of the 50th parallel of south latitude, and lying between the 20th and the 80th degrees of west longitude\". All these territories were administered as Falkland Islands Dependencies from Stanley by the Governor of the Falkland Islands. The motivation for this declaration lay in the need for regulating and taxing the whaling industry effectively. Commercial operators would hunt whales in areas outside of the official boundaries of the Falkland Islands and its dependencies and there was a need to close this loophole.\n\nIn 1917, the wording of the claim was modified, so as to, among other things, unambiguously include all the territory in the sector stretching to the South Pole (thus encompassing all of the present-day British Antarctic Territory). The new claim covered \"all islands and territories whatsoever between the 20th degree of west longitude and the 50th degree of west longitude which are situated south of the 50th parallel of south latitude; and all islands and territories whatsoever between the 50th degree of west longitude and the 80th degree of west longitude which are situated south of the 58th parallel of south latitude\".\n\nUnder the ambition of Leopold Amery, the Under-Secretary of State for the Colonies, Britain attempted to incorporate the entire continent into the Empire. In a memorandum to the governor-generals for Australia and New Zealand, he wrote that 'with the exception of Chile and Argentina and some barren islands belonging to France... it is desirable that the whole of the Antarctic should ultimately be included in the British Empire.'\n\nThe first step was taken on 30 July 1923, when the British government passed an Order in Council under the British Settlements Act 1887, defining the new borders for the Ross Dependency - \"that part of His Majesty's Dominions in the Antarctic Seas, which comprises all the islands and territories between the 160th degree of East Longitude and the 150th degree of West Longitude which are situated south of the 60th degree of South Latitude shall be named the Ross Dependency.\"\n\nThe Order in Council then went on to appoint the Governor-General and Commander-in Chief of New Zealand as the Governor of the territory.\n\nIn 1930, the United Kingdom claimed Enderby Land. In 1933, a British imperial order transferred territory south of 60° S and between meridians 160° E and 45° E to Australia as the Australian Antarctic Territory.\n\nFollowing the passing of the Statute of Westminster in 1931, the government of the United Kingdom relinquished all control over the government of New Zealand and Australia. This however had no bearing on the obligations of the Governor-General of both countries in their capacity as Governor of the Antarctic territories.\n\nMeanwhile, alarmed by these unilateral declarations, the French government laid claim to a strip of the continent in 1924. The basis for their claim to Adélie Land lay on the discovery of the coastline in 1840 by the French explorer Jules Dumont d'Urville, who named it after his wife, Adèle. The British eventually decided to recognize this claim and the border between Adélie Land and Australian Antarctic Territory was fixed definitively in 1938.\n\nThese developments also concerned Norwegian whaling interests, who wished to avoid the British taxation of whaling stations in the Antarctic and were concerned that they would be commercially excluded from the continent. The whale-ship owner Lars Christensen financed several expeditions to the Antarctic with the view to claim land for Norway and establish stations on Norwegian territory to gain better privileges. The first expedition, led by Nils Larsen and Ola Olstad, landed on Peter I Island in 1929 and claimed the island for Norway. On 6 March 1931, a Norwegian royal proclamation declared the island under Norwegian sovereignty and on 23 March 1933 the island was declared a dependency.\n\nThe 1929 expedition led by Hjalmar Riiser-Larsen and Finn Lützow-Holm named the continental land mass near the island as Queen Maud Land, named after the Norwegian queen Maud of Wales. The territory was explored further during the \"Norvegia\" expedition of 1930–31. Negotiations with the British government in 1938 resulted in the western border of Queen Maud Land being set at 20°W.\nNorway's claim was disputed by Nazi Germany, which in 1938 dispatched the German Antarctic Expedition, led by Alfred Ritscher, to fly over as much of it as possible. The ship \"Schwabenland\" reached the pack ice off Antarctica on 19 January 1939. During the expedition, an area of about was photographed from the air by Ritscher, who dropped darts inscribed with swastikas every . Germany eventually attempted to claim the territory surveyed by Ritscher under the name New Swabia, but lost any claim to the land following its defeat in the Second World War.\n\nOn 14 January 1939, five days prior to the German arrival, Queen Maud Land was annexed by Norway, after a royal decree announced that the land bordering the Falkland Islands Dependencies in the west and the Australian Antarctic Dependency in the east was to be brought under Norwegian sovereignty. The primary basis for the annexation was to secure the Norwegian whaling industry's access to the region. In 1948, Norway and the United Kingdom agreed to limit Queen Maud Land to from 20°W to 45°E, and that the Bruce Coast and Coats Land were to be incorporated into Norwegian territory.\n\nThis encroachment of foreign powers was a matter of immense disquiet to the nearby South American countries, Argentina and Chile. Taking advantage of a European continent plunged into turmoil with the onset of the Second World War, Chile's president, Pedro Aguirre Cerda declared the establishment of a Chilean Antarctic Territory in areas already claimed by Britain.\n\nArgentina had an even longer history of involvement in the Continent. Already in 1904 the Argentine government began a permanent occupation in the area with the purchase of a meteorological station on Laurie Island established in 1903 by Dr William S. Bruce's Scottish National Antarctic Expedition. Bruce offered to transfer the station and instruments for the sum of 5.000 pesos, on the condition that the government committed itself to the continuation of the scientific mission. British officer William Haggard also sent a note to the Argentine Foreign Minister, Jose Terry, ratifying the terms of Bruce proposition.\n\nIn 1906, Argentina communicated to the international community the establishment of a permanent base on South Orkney Islands. However, Haggard responded by reminding Argentina that the South Orkneys were British. The British position was that Argentine personnel was granted permission only for the period of one year. The Argentine government entered into negotiations with the British in 1913 over the possible transfer of the island. Although these talks were unsuccessful, Argentina attempted to unilaterally establish their sovereignty with the erection of markers, national flags and other symbols.\nIn response to this and earlier German explorations, the British Admiralty and Colonial Office launched Operation Tabarin in 1943 to reassert British territorial claims against Argentine and Chilean incursion and establish a permanent British presence in the Antarctic. The move was also motivated by concerns within the Foreign Office about the direction of United States post-war activity in the region.\n\nA suitable cover story was the need to deny use of the area to the enemy. The \"Kriegsmarine\" was known to use remote islands as rendezvous points and as shelters for commerce raiders, U-boats and supply ships. Also, in 1941, there existed a fear that Japan might attempt to seize the Falkland Islands, either as a base or to hand them over to Argentina, thus gaining political advantage for the Axis and denying their use to Britain.\n\nIn 1943, British personnel from HMS \"Carnarvon Castle\" removed Argentine flags from Deception Island. The expedition was led by Lieutenant James Marr and left the Falkland Islands in two ships, HMS \"William Scoresby\" (a minesweeping trawler) and \"Fitzroy\", on Saturday 29 January 1944.\n\nBases were established during February near the abandoned Norwegian whaling station on Deception Island, where the Union Flag was hoisted in place of Argentine flags, and at Port Lockroy (on February 11) on the coast of Graham Land. A further base was founded at Hope Bay on 13 February 1945, after a failed attempt to unload stores on 7 February 1944. Symbols of British sovereignty, including post offices, signposts and plaques were also constructed and postage stamps were issued.\n\nOperation Tabarin provoked Chile to organize its First Chilean Antarctic Expedition in 1947-48, where the Chilean president Gabriel González Videla personally inaugurated one of its bases.\n\nFollowing the end of the war in 1945, the British bases were handed over to civilian members of the newly created Falkland Islands Dependencies Survey (subsequently the British Antarctic Survey) the first such national scientific body to be established in Antarctica.\n\nFriction between Britain and the Latin American states continued into the post war period. Royal Navy warships were despatched in 1948 to prevent naval incursions and in 1952, an Argentine shore party at Hope Bay (the British Base \"D\", established there in 1945, came up against the Argentine Esperanza Base, est. 1952) fired a machine gun over the heads of a British Antarctic Survey team unloading supplies from the \"John Biscoe\". The Argentines later extended a diplomatic apology, saying that there had been a misunderstanding and that the Argentine military commander on the ground had exceeded his authority.\n\nThe United States became politically interested in the Antarctic continent before and during WWII. The United States Antarctic Service Expedition, from 1939-1941, was sponsored by the government with additional support came from donations and gifts by private citizens, corporations and institutions. The objectives of the Expedition, outlined by President Franklin D. Roosevelt, was to establish two bases: East Base, in the vicinity of Charcot Island, and West Base, in the vicinity of King Edward VII Land. After operating successfully for two years, but with international tensions on the rise, it was considered wise to evacuate the two bases. However,\n\nImmediately after the war, American interest was rekindled with an explicitly geopolitical motive. Operation Highjump, from 1946-1947 was organized by Rear Admiral Richard E. Byrd Jr. and included 4,700 men, 13 ships, and multiple aircraft. The primary mission of Operation Highjump was to establish the Antarctic research base Little America IV, for the purpose of training personnel and testing equipment in frigid conditions and amplifying existing stores of knowledge of hydrographic, geographic, geological, meteorological and electromagnetic propagation conditions in the area. The mission was also aimed at consolidating and extending United States sovereignty over the largest practicable area of the Antarctic continent, although this was publicly denied as a goal even before the expedition ended.\n\nMeanwhile, in an attempt at ending the impasse, Britain submitted an application to the International Court of Justice in 1955 to adjudicate between the territorial claims of Britain, Argentina and Chile. This proposal failed, as both Latin American countries rejected submitting to an international arbitration procedure.\n\nNegotiations towards the establishment of an international condominium over the continent first began in 1948, involving the 7 claimant powers (Britain, Australia, New Zealand, France, Norway, Chile and Argentina) and the US. This attempt was aimed at excluding the Soviet Union from the affairs of the continent and rapidly fell apart when the USSR declared an interest in the region, refused to recognize any claims of sovereignty and reserved the right to make its own claims in 1950.\n\nAn important impetus toward the formation of the Antarctic Treaty System in 1959, was the International Geophysical Year, 1957-1958. This year of international scientific cooperation triggered an 18-month period of intense Antarctic science. More than 70 existing national scientific organizations then formed IGY committees, and participated in the cooperative effort. The British established Halley Research Station in 1956 by an expedition from the Royal Society. Sir Vivian Fuchs headed the Commonwealth Trans-Antarctic Expedition, which completed the first overland crossing of Antarctica in 1958. In Japan, the Japan Maritime Safety Agency offered ice breaker Sōya as the South Pole observation ship and Showa Station was built as the first Japanese observation base on Antarctica.\n\nFrance contributed with Dumont d'Urville Station and Charcot Station in Adélie Land. The ship \"Commandant Charcot\" of the French Navy spent nine months of 1949/50 at the coast of Adelie Land, performing ionospheric soundings. The US erected the Amundsen–Scott South Pole Station as the first permanent structure directly over the South Pole in January 1957.\n\nFinally, to prevent the possibility of military conflict in the region, the United States, United Kingdom, the Soviet Union and 9 other countries with significant interests negotiated and signed the Antarctic Treaty in 1959. The treaty entered into force in 1961 and sets aside Antarctica as a scientific preserve, established freedom of scientific investigation and banned military activity on that continent. The treaty was the first arms control agreement established during the Cold War.\n\nA baby, named Emilio Marcos de Palma, was born near Hope Bay on 7 January 1978, becoming the first baby born on the continent. He also was born farther south than anyone in history.\n\nOn 28 November 1979, an Air New Zealand DC-10 on a sightseeing trip crashed into Mount Erebus on Ross Island, killing all 257 people on board.\n\nIn 1991 a convention among member nations of the Antarctic Treaty on how to regulate mining and drilling was proposed. Australian Prime Minister Bob Hawke and French Prime Minister Michel Rocard led a response to this convention that resulted in the adoption of the Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty, now known as the Madrid Protocol. All mineral extraction was banned for 50 years and the Antarctic was set aside as a \"natural reserve, devoted to peace and science\".\n\nBørge Ousland, a Norwegian explorer, finished the first unassisted Antarctic solo crossing on 18 January 1997.\n\nOn 23 November 2007, the MS \"Explorer\" struck an iceberg and sank, but all on board were rescued by nearby ships, including a passing Norwegian cruise ship, the MS \"Nordnorge\".\n\nWomen were originally kept from exploring Antarctica until well into the 1950s. A few pioneering women visited the Antarctic land and waters prior to the 1950s and many women requested to go on early expeditions, but were turned away. Early pioneers such as Louise Séguin and Ingrid Christensen were some of the first women to see Antarctic waters. Christensen was the first woman to set foot on the mainland of Antarctica. The first women to have any fanfare about their Antarctic journeys were Caroline Mikkelsen who set foot on an island of Antarctica in 1935, and Jackie Ronne and Jennie Darlington who were the first women to over-winter in Antarctica in 1947. The first woman scientist to work in Antarctica was Maria Klenova in 1956. Silvia Morella de Palma was the first woman to give birth in Antarctica, delivering 3.4 kg (7 lb 8 oz) Emilio Palma at the Argentine Esperanza base 7 January 1978.\n\nWomen faced legal barriers and sexism that prevented most from visiting Antarctica and doing research until the late 1960s. The United States Congress banned American women from traveling to Antarctica until 1969. Women were often excluded because it was thought that they could not handle the extreme temperatures or crisis situations. The first woman from the British Antarctic Survey to go to Antarctica was Janet Thomson in 1983 who described the ban on women as a \"rather improper segregation.\"\n\nOnce women were allowed in Antarctica, they still had to fight against sexism and sexual harassment. However, a tipping point was reached in the mid 1990s when it became the new normal that women were part of Antarctic life. Women began to see a change as more and more women began working and researching in Antarctica.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43739647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43739647", "title": "Hodoa Moakat", "text": "Hodoa Moakat\n\nHodoa Moaqat ( \"temporary calm\") is a 1994 album by the Cairo-based Libyan Arabpop singer Hamid Al-Shairi. The album features guest vocals from 1990s artist Egyptian singer Dalia.\n"}
{"id": "22495822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22495822", "title": "Je vais me marier, Marie", "text": "Je vais me marier, Marie\n\n\"Je vais me marier, Marie\" (English translation: \"I´m getting married, Mary\") was the Swiss entry in the Eurovision Song Contest 1973, performed in French by Patrick Juvet.\n\nIn the song he gathers his friends round to \"laugh and sing through the night\" and he gives them the news that he \"is going to be married\". He is renouncing his youth and folies today, for tomorrow will be the time to think about life and children. As he will not be seeing them any more, he tells them to drink to his health and lost liberty.\n\nThe song was performed eighth on the night (following Spain's Mocedades with \"Eres tú\" and preceding Yugoslavia's Zdravko Čolić with \"Gori vatra\"). At the close of voting, it had received 79 points, placing 12th in a field of 17.\n\nIt was succeeded as Swiss representative at the 1974 Contest by Piera Martell with \"Mein Ruf nach dir\".\n"}
{"id": "3105344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3105344", "title": "King's Artillery Regiment", "text": "King's Artillery Regiment\n\nThe King's Artillery Regiment () was an artillery regiment of the Royal Danish Army.\n\nThe \"Kongens Artilleriregiment\" was formed on 1 August 1982 by merging Kronens Artilleriregiment from Sjælsmark barracks and Sjællandske Artilleriregiment from Holbæk barracks. On 1 November 2005 \"Kongens Artilleriregiment\" was merged with Dronningens Artilleriregiment to create the new artillery regiment, Danske Artilleriregiment. The regiment was located on Sjælsmark barracks.\n\n"}
{"id": "19736526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19736526", "title": "Krasna zemljo", "text": "Krasna zemljo\n\nLyrics of the song \"Krasna zemljo\" (\"Beautiful land\") were written by Ivan Cukon in 1912, and the music was composed by Matko Brajša Rašan. The song was written as the \"Hymn of the Company Saints Cyril and Methodius\" and later became an unofficial anthem of the region of Istria.\n\nAs the song was widely accepted as the anthem of the region, the assembly of the Istria County proclaimed the song as the regional anthem of Istria on 23 September 2002. Despite Istria has officially adopted Croatian-Italian bilingualism, the anthem is only sung in Croatian.\n\n<poem>\nKrasna zemljo, Istro mila\ndome roda hrvatskog\nKud se ori pjesan vila,\ns Učke tja do mora tvog.\n\nGlas se čuje oko Raše,\nčuje Mirna, Draga, Lim\nSve se diže što je naše\nza rod gori srcem svim.\n\nSlava tebi Pazin - grade\nkoj' nam čuvaš rodni kraj\nDivne li ste, oj Livade\nnek' vas mine tuđi sjaj!\n\nSva se Istra širom budi\nPula, Buzet, Lošinj, Cres\nSvud pomažu dobri ljudi\nnauk žari kano krijes.\n</poem>\n\n<poem>\nBeautiful land, dear Istria\nhome of the Croatian kin\nWhere the song of fairies sounds \nfrom Učka to your sea.\n\nThe voice is heard throughout the Raša,\nheard by Mirna, Draga, Lim\nEverything is rising that is ours,\nits heart burning for its kin\n\nGlory to you Pazin - city\nyou that guard our birthplace\nYou're beautiful, oh Livade\nlet others shine cease upon you\n\nall of Istria is waking up,\nPula, Buzet, Lošinj, Cres\neverywhere the good people are helping,\nknowledge is glowing like embers \n</poem>\n\n"}
{"id": "37232437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37232437", "title": "LITEXPO", "text": "LITEXPO\n\nLITEXPO (from \"Lit\"huanian \"expo\"sition) or Lithuanian Exhibition and Congress Centre (), located in Vilnius, Lithuania, is the largest exhibition centre in the Baltic states. \n\nIt offers nine exhibition halls with a combined area of and outdoor area of . Biggest hall have capacity of 1.800, while capacity of whole centre is 8.000 people.\n\nLITEXPO organizes over twenty international exhibitions annually, including Resta (construction fair) and Vilnius Book Fair. It also organizes conferences and other special events. In December 2011, LITEXPO hosted Ministerial Council meeting of the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe. The Ministry of Economy owns more than 98% of the shares in LITEXPO.\n"}
{"id": "24402017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24402017", "title": "Leđan", "text": "Leđan\n\nLeđan or Legen was an ancient, often described as magical, city from the Croatian mythology and folklore. It features in Ivana Brlić-Mažuranić's \"Croatian Tales of Long Ago\", a collection of Croatian fairy tales dramatised into short stories.\n"}
{"id": "46552776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46552776", "title": "List of LTE networks in Europe", "text": "List of LTE networks in Europe\n\nThis is a list of commercial Long-Term Evolution (LTE) networks in Europe, grouped by their frequency bands.\n\nSome operators use multiple bands and are therefore listed multiple times in respective sections.\n\n\nNote: This list of network deployments does not imply any widespread deployment or national coverage.\n\n"}
{"id": "11365632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11365632", "title": "List of mammals of the Falkland Islands", "text": "List of mammals of the Falkland Islands\n\nThis is a list of the mammal species recorded in the Falkland Islands. There are 28 mammal species in the Falkland Islands, of which two are endangered and two are vulnerable. One of the species listed for the Falkland Islands is considered to be extinct.\n\nThe following tags are used to highlight each species' conservation status as assessed by the IUCN:\nSome species were assessed using an earlier set of criteria. Species assessed using this system have the following instead of Near Threatened and Least Concern categories:\n\nThe bats' most distinguishing feature is that their forelimbs are developed as wings, making them the only mammals in the world naturally capable of flight. Bat species account for about 20% of all mammals.\n\n\nThe order Cetacea includes whales, dolphins and porpoises. They are the mammals most fully adapted to aquatic life with a spindle-shaped nearly hairless body, protected by a thick layer of blubber, and forelimbs and tail modified to provide propulsion underwater.\n\n\nThere are over 260 species of carnivorans, the majority of which feed primarily on meat. They have a characteristic skull shape and dentition.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36044386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36044386", "title": "List of people from Gaziantep", "text": "List of people from Gaziantep\n\nThis is a list of notable people from Gaziantep, Turkey.\n\n"}
{"id": "9338301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9338301", "title": "Lucuidonenses", "text": "Lucuidonenses\n\nThe Lucuidonenses were an ancient people of Sardinia, noted by Ptolemy (III, 3). They dwelt south of the Carenses and the Cunusitani and north of the Æsaronenses.\n\n"}
{"id": "1475848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1475848", "title": "Migratory Bird Treaty Act of 1918", "text": "Migratory Bird Treaty Act of 1918\n\nThe Migratory Bird Treaty Act of 1918 (MBTA), codified at (although §709 is omitted), is a United States federal law, first enacted in 1916 to implement the convention for the protection of migratory birds between the United States and Great Britain (acting on behalf of Canada). The statute makes it unlawful without a waiver to pursue, hunt, take, capture, kill, or sell birds listed therein as migratory birds. The statute does not discriminate between live or dead birds and also grants full protection to any bird parts including feathers, eggs, and nests. Over 800 species are currently on the list.\n\nSome exceptions to the act, including the eagle feather law, are enacted in federal regulations (), which regulate the taking, possession, and transportation of bald eagles, golden eagles, and their \"parts, nests, and eggs\" for \"scientific, educational, and depredation control purposes; for the religious purposes of American Indian tribes; and to protect other interests in a particular locality.\" Enrolled members of federally recognized tribes may apply for an eagle permit for use in \"bona fide tribal religious ceremonies.\"\n\nThe U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service issues permits for otherwise prohibited activities under the act. These include permits for taxidermy, falconry, propagation, scientific and educational use, and depredation, an example of the latter being the killing of geese near an airport, where they pose a danger to aircraft.\n\nThe Act was enacted in an era when many bird species were threatened by the commercial trade in birds and bird feathers. The Act was one of the first federal environmental laws (the Lacey Act had been enacted in 1900). The Act replaced the earlier Weeks-McLean Act (1913). Since 1918, similar conventions between the United States and four other nations have been made and incorporated into the MBTA: Mexico (1936), Japan (1972) and the Soviet Union (1976, now its successor state Russia). Some of the conventions stipulate protections not only for the birds themselves, but also for habitats and environs necessary for the birds' survival.\n\nConstitutionally this law is of interest as it is a use of the federal treaty-making power to override the provisions of state law. The principle that the federal government may do this was upheld in the case \"Missouri v. Holland\".\n\n\nLouis Marshall had a key influence as an intervenor on a landmark case before the Supreme Court underscoring the right and responsibility of the federal government for environmental protection and conservation. In a friend of the court brief in \"Missouri v. Holland\" on behalf of the Association for the Protection of the Adirondacks, Marshall successfully persuaded the court to uphold the Migratory Bird Treaty Act of 1918, between the United States and Canada. As characterized by Adler, Marshall argued, \"the United States did have the power to create such legislation; that Congress was well within its rights; and that the Act was constitutional\"; and, further, \"If Congress possessed plenary powers to legislate for the protection of the public domain, then it had to take into account all possibility for such protection\", including protection of migratory birds, \"these natural guardians\" against \"hostile insects, which, if not held in check ... would result in the inevitable destruction\" of \"both prairie and forest lands\". According to Handlin, Marshall's intervention \"was a major factor in the decision.\"\n\nIn the 24 August 2006 edition of the Federal Register, the U.S. Department of the Interior's Fish and Wildlife Service proposed adding 152 species, removing 12 species, and correcting/updating the common or scientific names of numerous others. Reasons for the proposed revisions include birds mistakenly omitted previously, new evidence on geographic distribution, taxonomic changes, etc. In addition, the mute swan (\"Cygnus olor\"), which was afforded temporary protection due to court order since 2001, is formally excluded from protection in the proposal due to \"nonnative and human introduced\" status. The previous update to the list occurred on 5 April 1985.\n\nOn January 9, 2001, the US Supreme Court, in a split vote of 5 to 4, (\"Solid Waste Agency, of Skokie, Illinois vs US Army Corps of Engineers\") threw out what has been dubbed the migratory bird rule. A case that pitted a consortium of towns around Chicago over isolated wetlands, inhabited or visited by over 100 migratory bird species, against the US Army Corps of Engineers. In this case, Skokie, Illinois, wanted abandoned quarries filled with water, but not connected to another or navigable body of water to serve as a site for a solid waste facility. For the previous 15 years, lower courts had sustained the law in favor of migratory birds, siding with the Army Corps.\n\nAt least one state reacted to the new Supreme Court ruling by restoring isolated wetlands protection: 2001 Wisconsin Act 6, is the first of its kind nationwide to restore wetlands regulation to the state after federal authority had been revoked. It restores protection to over one million acres (4,000 km²) of isolated wetlands in Wisconsin. On May 7, 2001, Wisconsin Governor Scott McCallum signed a bill protecting wetlands by placing Wisconsin wetlands regulation under the jurisdiction of the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources. Bipartisan state legislators fully supported the bill and felt it was necessary after the Supreme Court ruled that the federal clean water act didn't give the corps authority over decisions involving isolated wetlands.\n\nMigratory birds may seek respite within trees or on buildings considered private property. The Migratory Bird Treaty Act of 1918 prohibits the removal of all listed species or their parts (feathers, eggs, nests, etc.) from such property. However, in extreme circumstances, a federal permit might be obtained for the relocation of listed species (in some states a state permit is required \"in addition\" to a federal permit). Pursuant to the spirit of the treaty, it is not trivial to obtain a permit; the applicant must meet a certain criteria as outlined in Title 50, Code of Federal Regulations, 21.27, Special Purpose Permits.\n\nThe permit applicant is generally a contractor who specializes in wildlife relocation. When hiring a contractor to trap and relocate any animal from one's property, the private property owner is well advised to attain proof of such permits before any trapping activity begins, as trapping without the necessary paperwork is common in the United States.\n\nMost wildlife management professionals consider relocation actions undue harm to the birds, particularly since relocated birds (being migratory) often return to the same property the next year. In the case of trapping and relocation, \"harm\" is brought on by or can result in:\n\nThe migratory bird conventions with Canada and Mexico define \"game birds\" as those species belonging to the following families:\n\n\nThe Migratory Bird Treaty Act, which implements the conventions, grants the Secretary of the Interior the authority to establish hunting seasons for any of the migratory game bird species listed above. In actuality, the Fish and Wildlife Service has determined that hunting is appropriate only for those species for which there is a long tradition of hunting, and for which hunting is consistent with their population status and their long-term conservation. It is inconceivable, for example, that we will ever see legalized hunting of plovers, curlews, or the many other species of shorebirds whose populations were devastated by market gunners in the last decades of the 19th century.\n\nAlthough the Migratory Bird Treaty Act considers some 170 species to be \"game birds,\" less than 60 species are typically hunted each year. The Fish and Wildlife Service publishes migratory game bird regulations in the Federal Register. Those species for which hunting regulations have been established at some point during the past 10 years are designated with an asterisk (*) in the following list. However, such a designation does not necessarily indicate that a given species can be taken legally in your State or locality. For regulations specific to your locality, you should consult with your State's natural resource agency.\nSource: The list of hunted species was taken primarily from Appendix 2 of the Final Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement: Issuance of Annual Regulations Permitting the Sport Hunting of Migratory Birds (SEIS 88), U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service\n\nOne issue involves a small uninhabited island in the Pacific Ocean known as Farallon de Medinilla located north of Guam. The target range there is the United States Pacific Fleet's only U.S.-controlled range available, and conveniently accessible from bases in Guam, for live-fire training. In addition, the air and sea space in the Farallon de Medinilla area provides sufficient room for the many different attack profiles which need to be rehearsed. During the peak of Vietnam War operations, ordnance delivered on the island was estimated at 22 tons per month, but is considerably less now.\n\nThe Navy has far more mitigation procedures to prevent environmental damage in the present day than they did in the 1960s. In compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 they prepared an Environmental Impact Statement. However, the Navy could not guarantee that no bird protected by the MBTA would be killed, despite the precautions. The Fish and Wildlife Service could not grant a permit without such a guarantee, and no permit has been issued. The Navy argued that it had done its best to comply with environmental laws, and should be permitted to operate under the Impact Statement prepared for NEPA. Vice Speaker Joseph P. DeLeon Guerrero, R-Saipan, noted that the U.S. military \"is thorough and meticulous in monitoring the impact of the bombing [drills]\" on Farallon de Medinilla.\n\nEarthjustice sued for a temporary restraining order of tests because the navy did not comply with the MBTA, although they did comply with the other environmental laws. As a result, a law was introduced by congress (H.R. 4546) to amend the Migratory Bird Treaty Act of 1918 to make it lawful for the Department of Defense to \"take migratory birds during a 'military readiness activity.'\" (Readiness activities are defined as all training activities and military operations related to combat and the testing of equipment for combat use.) The record in congress noted that \"A recent federal court ruling indicated that the Navy had violated the Migratory Bird Treaty Act by incidentally taking migratory birds without a permit during training exercises near Guam. The House report indicates that the exemption provision is intended to address the lack of permit authorization for incidental takings, so that essential training exercises may proceed. It appears that the language used in the bill would not authorize the issuance of permits, but more broadly would state that the part of the Migratory Bird Treaty Act that articulates unlawful behavior does not apply to a military readiness activity.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4226199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4226199", "title": "Popular Front for the Liberation of Chad", "text": "Popular Front for the Liberation of Chad\n\nThe Popular Front for the Liberation of Chad (\"Front Populaire pour la Libération du Tchad\" or FPLT) was a small insurgent group active during the First Chadian Civil War. Founded in 1968 by Awad Mukhtar Nasser, it was based in Sudan and operated along the Chad-Sudan border. After the fall of François Tombalbaye's regime in 1975, it gave up armed struggle as its leadership reconciled with Félix Malloum's new government. \n\nIn 1979 the FPLT reemerged, always under the leadership of Nasser. With few or no roots in Chad, the group was formed mainly to participate to the peace conferences that were being held in Nigeria, where it was meant to represent Sudanese interests. But this plan failed since the FPLT played no part neither in the Kano Accord, nor in the Lagos Accord. All the same the FPLT remained Sudan's main agent in the country till 1982 when Sudan gave all its support to Hissène Habré's government, with the consequent decline of the FPLT.\n\n"}
{"id": "29536443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29536443", "title": "Postal codes in Luxembourg", "text": "Postal codes in Luxembourg\n\nPostal codes in Luxembourg are entirely numeric and consist of four digits. The first digit indicates the region, however this subdivision of the territory does not correspond exactly to the usual administrative subdivision (districts and cantons).\n\nPostal codes starting with a 1 or a 2 are located in the capital city of Luxembourg.\n\nPostal codes starting with a 3 are located South of the capital city.\n\nPostal codes starting with a 4 are located in the city of Esch-sur-Alzette.\n\nPostal codes starting with a 5 are located in the South-East of the country.\n\nPostal codes starting with a 6 are located in the North-East of the country.\n\nPostal codes starting with a 7 are located North of the capital city.\n\nPostal codes starting with an 8 are located in the West of the country.\n\nPostal codes starting with a 9 are located in the North of the country.\n\nIn larger municipalities every street has its own postal code, smaller municipalities often have only one code for the whole town. If there are several postal codes within one municipality, they are ordered alphabetically, except that the first numbers are reserved for important clients (administrations and companies).\n\n"}
{"id": "21273778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21273778", "title": "Radio Cordac", "text": "Radio Cordac\n\nRadio Cordac (Corporation Radiodiffusion d'Afrique Central) was a well-known Protestant missionary radio service directed to listeners throughout Central Africa. Transmissions were based in Bujumbura, Burundi. The station ran from around 1963 to 1977. In 1969, it was one of only two radio stations in the entire country, sending out broadcasts in French, English, Kirundi and Swahili. Radio Cordac went off the air in 1977 when the Burundi government decided to stop private radio stations and only allow government stations. The president at the time, decided no western missionaries could stay in the country.\n\nAn American organisation by the name of Voice of Hope Radio aims to continue such broadcasts to Central Africa, provided they have sufficient funds to do so.\n\nRadio Cordac was sponsored by World Gospel Mission, Kansas Society of Friends and the Free Methodists. In 1969, the radio station was staffed by 15 African and eight European workers.\n\nThe radio station operated a four-year training program for African students from its property in Bujumbura, Burundi. Students regularly participated in radio broadcasts.\n\nDuring its operating life, Radio Cordac broadcast in English, French, Swahili, Kirundi, and other African dialects, to Burundi and five central African countries, Congo, Rwanda, Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda, with a potential listening audience of 10,000,000 at that time.\n\nShort wave listeners could receive Radio Cordac signals as far away as Japan. In February 1973, Radio Cordac broadcast on 3985 kHz 75 meter band, 4920 kHz 60 meter band, 1400 kHz Medium Wave and 93.5 MHz FM Band. The call sign was 9UZ 23.\n\nIn a public address, given around 1975 by Corrie ten Boom , the renowned Dutch World War Two prison camp survivor and Christian speaker, said that she had visited and worked at the radio station in Bujumbura and was pleased to hear that it had reopened again, broadcasting 24 hours a day, after being closed down for two years as a result of changing political policy.\n\nThe 1976 Interval Signal for Radio Cordac can be heard on the Burundi page at www.intervalsignals.net.\n\n"}
{"id": "59189466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59189466", "title": "Revolutionary Youth of Angola", "text": "Revolutionary Youth of Angola\n\nThe Revolutionary Youth of Angola (Juventude Revolucionária de Angola) is a political movement in Angola. The secretary general is Alicerces Paulo Bartolomeu, also known as Ali Mango, a member of the National Assembly of Angola.\n"}
{"id": "15593624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15593624", "title": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Menorca", "text": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Menorca\n\nThe Roman Catholic Diocese of Menorca () is a diocese located in the island of Menorca in the Ecclesiastical province of Valencia in Spain.\n\nIt was established as the Diocese of Menorca in the 5th century.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42533274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42533274", "title": "Rusinovo", "text": "Rusinovo\n\nRusinovo () is a village in the Berovo Municipality of Macedonia\n\n"}
{"id": "15832531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15832531", "title": "SABC Special Assignment", "text": "SABC Special Assignment\n\nSpecial Assignment is an investigative current affairs programme on SABC. Since August 1998 the programme has covered news events in South Africa and beyond, often disclosing criminal activities and atrocities unknown to the public. Ashraf Garda is the shows current host. The Show is screened weekly on SABC3 at 21:30 GMT.\nSix Avanti Awards in 1999.\n\n"}
{"id": "50868919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50868919", "title": "Trista Vick-Majors", "text": "Trista Vick-Majors\n\nTrista Vick-Majors is an American Antarctic biogeochemist and microbial ecologist, best known for her work showing that microorganisms are present under the Antarctic ice sheet.\n\nVick-Majors grew up in Calhan, Colorado and completed her BA in Biology at Colorado College in 2003. Vick-Majors spent two years studying the microbial ecology of hot springs at the University of Nevada-Las Vegas and graduated with her MSc from Montana State University in 2010. Vick-Majors earned her PhD in Ecology and Environmental Sciences from Montana State University in 2016.\n\nVick-Majors’ MSc work focused on the responses of heterotrophic microorganisms to the onset of the polar night in Antarctica, while her PhD focused on microbial ecology and biogeochemistry in Subglacial Lake Whillans and under the McMurdo Ice Shelf.\n\nVick-Majors is a biogeochemist and microbial ecologist with interests in carbon biogeochemistry, polar environments, aquatic ecology, and subglacial ecosystems. Vick-Majors began working in the Antarctic in 2008 as part of an International Polar Year-funded project to study ecosystem responses to the Antarctic Polar Night – the first expedition of its kind, and has since been involved in Antarctic expeditions to the McMurdo Dry Valleys, the McMurdo Ice Shelf, Subglacial Lake Whillans in West Antarctica, and to the Ross Ice Shelf.\n\nVick-Majors was part of the first field team (the Whillans Ice Stream Subglacial Access Research and Drilling project (WISSARD)) to successfully obtain samples from an Antarctic subglacial lake. Her work with WISSARD showed that microorganisms are present under the Antarctic ice sheet.\n\nVick-Majors has contributed to the advancement of early career researchers in the polar sciences through her work with the Association of Polar Early Career Scientists and to public education and outreach efforts, and the popular press.\n\nVick-Majors was awarded the American Fellowship by the American Association of University Women in 2014, to support her dissertation work and in recognition of her commitment to helping women and girls through service to her community. Vick-Majors has also been a fellow of the Institute on Ecosystems (2014 and 2015) and the Montana Space Grant Consortium.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39290085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39290085", "title": "Union for National Salvation", "text": "Union for National Salvation\n\nThe Union for National Salvation ( USN) is a political coalition in Djibouti.\n\nLed by Ahmed Youssof Houmed, the coalition was formed to contest the 2013 parliamentary election. The party won 21 seats in the election, although the USN cited what it referred to as cases of mass fraud and ballot tampering, and called for demonstrations.\n\nThe coalition is composed of six parties; the ARD, the UDJ, the MRD, the PND, and the PDD, and MoDel.\n"}
{"id": "4522556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4522556", "title": "Waldseemüller map", "text": "Waldseemüller map\n\nThe Waldseemüller map or Universalis Cosmographia (\"Universal Cosmography\") is a printed wall map of the world by German cartographer Martin Waldseemüller, originally published in April 1507. It is known as the first map to use the name \"America\". The name \"America\" is placed on what is now called South America on the main map. As explained in \"Cosmographiae Introductio\", the name was bestowed in honor of the Italian Amerigo Vespucci. \n\nThe map is drafted on a modification of Ptolemy's second projection, expanded to accommodate the Americas and the high latitudes. A single copy of the map survives, presently housed at the Library of Congress in Washington, D.C.\n\nWaldseemüller also created globe gores, printed maps designed to be cut out and pasted onto spheres to form globes of the Earth. The wall map, and his globe gores of the same date, depict the American continents in two pieces. These depictions differ from the small inset map in the top border of the wall map, which shows the two American continents joined by an isthmus.\n\nThe wall map consists of twelve sections printed from woodcuts measuring . Each section is one of four horizontally and three vertically, when assembled. The map uses a modified Ptolemaic map projection with curved meridians to depict the entire surface of the Earth. In the upper-mid part of the main map there is inset another, miniature world map representing to some extent an alternative view of the world.\n\nLongitudes, which were difficult to determine at the time, are given in terms of degrees east from the Fortunate Islands (considered by Claudius Ptolemy as the westernmost known land) which Waldseemüller locates at the Canary Islands. The longitudes of eastern Asian places are too great. Latitudes, which were easy to determine, are also quite far off. For example, \"Serraleona\" (Sierra Leone, true latitude about 9°N) is placed south of the equator, and the Cape of Good Hope (true latitude 35°S) is placed at 50°S.\n\nThe full title of the map is \"Universalis cosmographia secundum Ptholomaei traditionem et Americi Vespucii aliorumque lustrationes\" (The Universal Cosmography according to the Tradition of Ptolemy and the Discoveries of Amerigo Vespucci and others). One of the \"others\" was Christopher Columbus. The title signalled his intention to combine or harmonize in a unified cosmographic depiction the traditional Ptolemaic geography of Europe, Asia and Africa with the new geographical information provided by Amerigo Vespucci and his fellow discoverers of lands in the western hemisphere. He explained: \"In designing the sheets of our world-map we have not followed Ptolemy in every respect, particularly as regards the new lands ... We have therefore followed, on the flat map, Ptolemy, except for the new lands and some other things, but on the solid globe, which accompanies the flat map, the description of Amerigo that is appended hereto.\"\n\nSeveral earlier maps are believed to be sources, chiefly those based on the Geography (Ptolemy) and the Caveri planisphere and others similar to those of Henricus Martellus or Martin Behaim. The Caribbean and what appears to be Florida were depicted on two earlier charts, the Cantino map, smuggled from Portugal to Italy in 1502 showing details known in 1500, and the Caverio map, drawn circa 1503–1504 and showing the Gulf of Mexico.\n\nWhile some maps after 1500 show, with ambiguity, an eastern coastline for Asia distinct from the Americas, the Waldseemüller map apparently indicates the existence of a new ocean between the trans-Atlantic regions of the Spanish discoveries and the Asia of Ptolemy and Marco Polo as exhibited on the 1492 Behaim globe. The first historical records of Europeans to set eyes on this ocean, the Pacific, are recorded as Vasco Núñez de Balboa in 1513. That is five to six years after Waldseemüller made his map. In addition, the map apparently predicts the width of South America at certain latitudes to within 70 miles. However, as pointed out by E.G. Ravenstein, this is an illusory effect of the cordiform projection used by Waldseemüller, for when the map is laid out on a more familiar equirectangular projection and compared with others of the period also set out on that same projection there is little difference between them: this is particularly evident when the comparison is made with Johannes Schöner's 1515 globe.\n\nApparently among most map-makers until that time, it was still erroneously believed that the lands discovered by Christopher Columbus, Vespucci, and others formed part of the Indies of Asia. Thus some believe that it is impossible that Waldseemüller could have known about the Pacific, which is depicted on his map. The historian Peter Whitfield has theorized that Waldseemüller incorporated the ocean into his map because Vespucci's accounts of the Americas, with their so-called \"savage\" peoples, could not be reconciled with contemporary knowledge of India, China, and the islands of Indies. Thus, in the view of Whitfield, Waldseemüller reasoned that the newly discovered lands could not be part of Asia, but must be separate from it, a leap of intuition that was later proved uncannily precise. An alternative explanation is that of George E. Nunn (see below).\n\n\"Mundus Novus\", a book attributed to Vespucci (who had himself explored the extensive eastern coast of South America), was widely published throughout Europe after 1504, including by Waldseemüller's group in 1507. It had first introduced to Europeans the idea that this was a new continent and \"not\" Asia. It is theorized that this led to Waldseemüller's separating the Americas from Asia, depicting the Pacific Ocean, and the use of the first name of Vespucci on his map.\n\nAn explanatory text, the \"Cosmographiae Introductio\", widely believed to have been written by Waldseemüller's colleague Matthias Ringmann, accompanied the map. It was said in Chapter IX of that text that the earth was now known to be divided into four parts, of which Europe, Asia and Africa, being contiguous with each other, were continents, while the fourth part, America, was \"an island, inasmuch as it is found to be surrounded on all sides by the seas\".\n\nThe inscription on the top left corner of the map proclaims that the discovery of America by Columbus and Vespucci fulfilled a prophecy of the Roman poet, Virgil, made in the Aeneid (VI. 795–797), of a land to be found in the southern hemisphere, to the south of the Tropic of Capricorn:\n\nThe \"path\" referred to is the ecliptic, which marks the sun's yearly movement along the constellations of the zodiac, so that to go beyond it meant crossing the southernmost extent of the ecliptic, the Tropic of Capricorn. 19° beyond Capricorn is latitude 42° South, the southernmost extent of America shown on Waldseemüller's map. The map legend shows how Waldseemüller strove to reconcile the new geographic information with the knowledge inherited from antiquity.\n\nThe most southerly feature named on the coast of \"America\" on the Waldseemüller map is \"Rio decananorum\", the \"River of the Cananoreans\". This was taken from Vespucci, who in 1501 during his voyage along this coast reached the port which he called \"Cananor\" (now Cananéia). Cananor was the port of Kannur in southern India, the farthest port reached in India during the 1500–1501 voyage of the Portuguese Pedro Álvares Cabral, the discoverer of Brazil, two of whose ships were encountered returning from India by Vespucci. This may be an indication Waldseemüller thought that the \"River of the Cananoreans\" could have actually been in the territory of Cananor in India and that \"America\" was, therefore, part of India.\n\nThe name for the northern land mass, \"Parias\", is derived from a passage in the \"Four Voyages of Amerigo Vespucci,\" in which, after several stops, the expedition arrives at a region that was \"situated in the torrid zone directly under the parallel which describes the Tropic of Cancer. And this province is called by them [the inhabitants] Parias.\" \"Parias\" was described by Waldseemüller's follower, Johannes Schöner as: \"The island of Parias, which is not a part or portion of the foregoing [\"America\"] but a large, special part of the fourth part of the world\", indicating uncertainty as to its situation.\n\nThe map shows the cities of \"Catigara\" (near longitude 180° and latitude 10°S) and \"Mallaqua\" (Malacca, near longitude 170° and latitude 20°S) on the western coast of the great peninsula that projects from the southeastern part of Asia, or (Southern India) as Waldseemüller called it. This peninsula forms the eastern side of the \" (\"Great Gulf\"), the Gulf of Thailand. Amerigo Vespucci, writing of his 1499 voyage, said he had hoped to sail westward from Spain across the Western Ocean (the Atlantic) around the Cape of Cattigara mentioned by Ptolemy into the Sinus Magnus. Ptolemy understood Cattigara, or Kattigara, to be the most eastern port reached by shipping trading from the Graeco-Roman world to the lands of the Far East. Vespucci failed to find the Cape of Cattigara on his 1499 voyage: he sailed along the coast of Venezuela but not far enough to resolve the question of whether there was a sea passage beyond leading to Ptolemy's Sinus Magnus. The object of his voyage of 1503–1504 was to reach the fabulous spice emporium of \"Melaccha in India\" (that is, Malacca, or Melaka, on the Malay Peninsula). He had learned of Malacca from one Guaspare (or Gaspard), a pilot with Pedro Álvares Cabral's fleet on its voyage to India in 1500–1501, whom Vespucci had encountered in the Atlantic on his return from India in May 1501. Christopher Columbus, in his fourth and last voyage of 1502–1503, planned to follow the coast of Champa southward around the Cape of Cattigara and sail through the strait separating Cattigara from the New World, into the Sinus Magnus to Malacca. This was the route he understood Marco Polo to have gone from China to India in 1292 (although Malacca had not yet been founded in Polo's time). Columbus anticipated that he would meet up with the expedition sent at the same time from Portugal to Malacca around the Cape of Good Hope under Vasco da Gama, and carried letters of credence from the Spanish monarchs to present to da Gama. The map therefore shows the two cities that were the initial destinations of Amerigo Vespucci and Christopher Columbus in their voyages that led to the unexpected discovery of a New World.\n\nJust to the south of \"Mallaqua\" (Malacca) is the inscription: \"hic occisus est S. thomas\" (Here St. Thomas was killed), referring to the legend that Saint Thomas the Apostle went to India in 52 AD and was killed there in 72 AD. Waldseemüller had confused Malacca (Melaka) with Mylapore in India. The contemporary understanding of the nature of Columbus' discoveries is demonstrated in the letter written to him by the Aragonese cosmographer and Royal counsellor, Jaume Ferrer, dated 5 August 1495, saying: Divine and infallible Providence sent the great Thomas from the Occident into the Orient in order to declare in India our Holy and Catholic Law; and you, Sir, it has sent to this opposite part of the Orient by way of the Ponient [West] so that by the Divine Will you might arrive in the Orient, and in the farthest parts of India Superior in order that the descendants might hear that which their ancestors neglected concerning the teaching of Thomas ... and very soon you will be by the Divine Grace in the Sinus Magnus, near which the glorious Thomas left his sacred body\".\n\nAt the time this wall map was drawn, Waldseemüller was working as part of the group of scholars of the Vosgean Gymnasium at Saint-Dié-des-Vosges in Lorraine, which in that time belonged to the Holy Roman Empire. The maps were accompanied by the book \"Cosmographiae Introductio\" produced by the Vosgean Gymnasium.\nOf the one thousand copies of the wall map Waldseemüller stated were printed, only one complete copy is known. It was originally owned by Johannes Schöner (1477–1547), a Nuremberg astronomer, geographer, and cartographer. Its existence was unknown for a long time until its rediscovery in 1901 in the library of Prince Johannes zu Waldburg-Wolfegg in Schloss Wolfegg in Württemberg, Germany by the Jesuit historian and cartographer Joseph Fischer. It remained there until 2001 when the United States Library of Congress purchased it from Waldburg-Wolfegg-Waldsee for ten million dollars.\n\nChancellor Angela Merkel of the Federal Republic of Germany symbolically turned over the Waldseemüller map on April 30, 2007, within the context of a formal ceremony at the Library of Congress, in Washington, DC. In her remarks, the chancellor stressed that the US contributions to the development of Germany in the postwar period tipped the scales in the decision to turn over the Waldseemüller map to the Library of Congress as a sign of transatlantic affinity and as an indication of the numerous German roots to the United States. Today another facsimile of the map is exhibited for the public by the House of Waldburg in their museum on Waldburg Castle in Upper Swabia.\n\nSince 2007, to the celebration of the 500 year jubilee of the first edition, the original map has been permanently displayed in the Library of Congress, within a specially-designed microclimate case. An argon atmosphere fills the case to give an anoxic environment. Prior to display, the entire map was the subject of a scientific analysis project using hyperspectral imaging with an advanced LED camera and illumination system to address preservation storage and display issues.\n\nIn 2005 the Waldseemüller map was nominated by Librarian of Congress James H. Billington for inscription on UNESCO's Memory of the World Register and was inscribed on the register that same year.\n\nThe geographers of Italy and Germany, like Martin Waldseemüller and his colleagues, were exponents of a theoretical geography, or cosmography. This means they appealed to theory where their knowledge of the American and Asiatic geography was lacking. That practice differed from the official Portuguese and Spanish cartographers, who omitted from their maps all unexplored coastlines.\n\nThe second century Alexandrian geographer Claudius Ptolemy had believed that the known world extended over 180 degrees of longitude from the prime meridian of the Fortunate Isles (possibly the Canary Islands) to the city of \"Cattigara\" in southeastern Asia. (In fact, the difference in longitude between the Canaries, at 16°W, and Cattigara, at 105°E, is just 121°.) He had also thought that the Indian Ocean was completely surrounded by land. Marco Polo demonstrated that an ocean lay east of Asia and was connected with the Indian Ocean. Hence, on the globe made by Martin Behaim in 1492, which combined the geography of Ptolemy with that of Marco Polo, the Indian Ocean was shown as merging with the Western Ocean to the east. Ptolemy's lands to the east of the Indian Ocean, however, were retained in the form of a great promontory projecting far south from the southeastern corner of Asia—the peninsula of Upper India (India Superior) upon which the city of Cattigara was situated.\n\nAnother result of Marco Polo's travels was also shown on Behaim's globe—the addition of 60 degrees to the longitude of Asia. Columbus had not actually seen Behaim's globe in 1492 (which apparently owed much to the ideas of Paolo dal Pozzo Toscanelli); but the globe, except for one important point, reflects the geographical theory on which he apparently based his plan for his first voyage. The exception is that Columbus shortened the length of the degree, thus reducing the distance from the Canaries to \"Zipangu\" (Japan), to about 62 degrees or only 775 leagues. Consequently, it seemed to Columbus a relatively simple matter to reach Asia by sailing west.\n\nIn the early 16th century, two theories prevailed with regard to \"America\" (the present South America). According to one theory, that continent was identified with the southeastern promontory of Asia that figures on Behaim's globe, India Superior or the Cape of Cattigara. The other view was that \"America\" (South America) was a huge island wholly unconnected with Asia.\n\nIt should be noted that Balboa called the Pacific the \"Mar del Sur\" and referred to it as \"la otra mar\", the other sea, by contrast with the Atlantic, evidently with Behaim's concept of only two oceans in mind. The \"Mar del Sur\", the South Sea, was the part of the Indian Ocean to the south of Asia: the Indian Ocean was the \"Oceanus Orientalis,\" the Eastern Ocean, as opposed to the Atlantic or Western Ocean, the \"Oceanus Occidentalis\" in Behaim's two ocean world.\n\nAccording to George E. Nunn, the key to Waldseemüller's apparent new ocean is found on the three sketch maps made by Bartolomé Colon (that is, Bartholomew Columbus, Christopher's brother) and Alessandro Zorzi in 1504 to demonstrate the geographical concepts of Christopher Columbus. One of the Columbus/Zorzi sketch maps bears an inscription saying that: \"According to Marinus of Tyre and Columbus, from Cape St. Vincent to Cattigara is 225 degrees, which is 15 hours; according to Ptolemy as far as Cattigara 180 degrees, which is 12 hours\". This shows that Christopher Columbus overestimated the distance eastward between Portugal and Cattigara as being 225 degrees instead of Ptolemy's estimate of 180 degrees, permitting him to believe the distance westward was only 135 degrees and therefore that the land he found was the East Indies. As noted by Nunn, in accordance with this calculation, the Colon/Zorzi maps employ the longitude estimate of Claudius Ptolemy from Cape St. Vincent eastward to Cattigara, but the longitude calculation of Marinus and Columbus is employed for the space between Cape St. Vincent westward to Cattigara.\n\nNunn pointed out that Martin Waldseemüller devised a scheme that showed both the Columbus and the Ptolemy-Behaim concept on the same map. On the right hand side of the Waldseemüller 1507 map is shown the Ptolemy-Behaim concept with the Ptolemy longitudes: this shows the huge peninsula of India Superior extending to the south of the Tropic of Capricorn. On the left side of the Waldseemüller map the discoveries of Columbus, Vespucci and others are represented as a long strip of land extending from about latitude 50 degree North to latitude 40 degrees South. The western coasts of these trans-Atlantic lands discovered under the Spanish crown are simply described by Waldseemüller as \"Terra Incognita\" (Unknown Land) or \"Terra Ulterior Incognita\" (Unknown Land Beyond), with a conjectural sea to the west, making these lands apparently a distinct continent. \"America's\" (that is, South America's) status as a separate island or a part of Asia, specifically, the peninsula of India Superior upon which Cattigara was situated, is left unresolved. As the question of which of the two alternative concepts was correct had not been resolved at the time, both were represented on the same map. Both extremities of the map represent the eastern extremity of Asia, according to the two alternative theories. As Nunn said, \"This was a very plausible way of presenting a problem at the time insoluble.\"\n\nAs noted by Nunn, the distance between the meridians on the map is different going eastward and westward from the prime meridian which passes through the Fortunate Isles (Canary Islands). This has the effect of representing the eastern coast of Asia twice: once in accordance with Ptolemy's longitudes to show it as Martin Behaim had done on his 1492 globe; and again in accordance with Columbus' calculation of longitudes to show his and the other Spanish navigators' discoveries across the Western Ocean, which Columbus and his followers considered to be part of India Superior.\n\nOn his 1516 world map, the \"Carta Marina,\" Waldseemüller identified the land he had called \"Parias\" on his 1507 map as \"Terra de Cuba\" and said it was part of Asia (\"Asie partis\"), that is, he explicitly idendified the land discovered by Columbus as the eastern part of Asia.\n\nBesides \"Universalis Cosmographia\", Waldseemüller published a set of gores for constructing globes. The gores, also containing the inscription \"America\", are believed to have been printed in the same year as the wall map, since Waldseemüller mentions them in the introduction to his \"Cosmographiæ Introductio\". On the globe gores, the sea to the west of the notional American west coast is named the \"Occeanus Occidentalis,\" that is, the Western or Atlantic Ocean, and where it merges with the \"Oceanus Orientalis\" (the Eastern, or Indian Ocean) is hidden by the latitude staff. This appears to indicate uncertainty as to \"America's\" location, whether it was an island continent in the Atlantic (Western Ocean) or in fact the great peninsula of India Superior shown on earlier maps, such as the 1489 map of the world by Martellus or the 1492 globe of Behaim.\n\nOnly few copies of the globe gores are extant. The first to be rediscovered was found in 1871 and is now in the James Ford Bell Library of the University of Minnesota. Another copy was found inside a Ptolemy atlas and had been in the Bavarian State Library in Munich since 1990. The Library recognized in February 2018, after reviewing its authenticity, that this map is not an original copy - it was printed in the 20th century. \nA third copy was discovered in 1992 bound into an edition of Aristotle in the Stadtbücherei Offenburg, a public library in Germany. A fourth copy came to light in 2003 when its European owner read a newspaper article about the Waldseemüller map. It was sold at auction to Charles Frodsham & Co. for $1,002,267, a world record price for a single sheet map.\nIn July 2012, a statement was released from Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich that a fifth copy of the gore had been found in the LMU Library's collection which is somewhat different from the other copies, perhaps because of a later date of printing.\nLMU Library has made an electronic version of their copy of the map available online.\n\n\n\n"}
