{"id": "43559332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43559332", "title": "1984 Biman Bangladesh Airlines Fokker F27 crash", "text": "1984 Biman Bangladesh Airlines Fokker F27 crash\n\nOn 5 August 1984, a Biman Bangladesh Airlines Fokker F27-600 crashed into a marsh near Zia International Airport (now Shahjalal International Airport) in Dhaka, Bangladesh while landing in poor weather. The aircraft was performing a scheduled domestic passenger flight between Patenga Airport, Chittagong and Zia International Airport, Dhaka.\n\nWith a total death toll of 49 people, it is the deadliest aviation disaster to occur on Bangladeshi soil and also the airline's worst accident.\n\nThe aircraft, a Fokker F27-600 registered S2-ABJ, was manufactured in 1971. It first flew for Indian Airlines but it was given to Biman in 1972, as a part of all the support given to Bangladesh by the Government of India following Bangladesh's Independence. At the time of the accident, the aircraft had flown more than 24,000 cycles and more than 15,500 airframe hours.\n\nThere were a total of 45 passengers and 4 crew members on board the flight, all of whom perished in the crash. There was one Briton and one Japanese among the passengers, and the rest of the passengers and crews were Bangladeshi. Thirty three of the passengers were traveling to Dhaka to catch connecting flights to the Middle East.\n\nThe captain of the flight was Mr. Kayes Ahmed Majumdar, an experienced pilot by the time of the accident. He had logged 5000 flying hours. The co-pilot was Kaniz Fatema Roksana, who was also known as the first female commercial pilot of Bangladesh.\n\nThe weather conditions in Dhaka were poor on the day of the accident; there was turbulence and heavy rain made visibility very poor. Amid these conditions, the crew first attempted a VOR approach to Zia International Airport's runway 32. As the runway was not spotted by either crew member, a missed approach was executed. The crew then tried an ILS approach on runway 14 of the same airport, but a missed approach had to be executed again as both pilots had failed to spot the runway once again. On the crew's third approach (second on runway 14), the plane got too low while it was still several hundred meters from the runway but neither crew member realized this (due to the poor visibility) and the plane crashed into a swamp about 550 meters short of the runway.\n"}
{"id": "33657111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33657111", "title": "1997 M42 motorway crash", "text": "1997 M42 motorway crash\n\nOn 10 March 1997 a multiple-vehicle collision occurred on the M42 motorway near Bromsgrove, Worcestershire, in central England. Three people were killed and more than 60 others were injured in the crash, which happened in dense fog during the early morning rush hour.\n\nAt around 6:20 a.m. a lorry, driven by David Fairclough of Wednesfield, entered the M42 from a slip-road at a speed of and, after slowing to , rammed into the rear of a tanker, which then struck a car in front and exploded. The ensuing pile-up involved 160 vehicles on a stretch of the motorway, including 30 on the opposite carriageway 20 minutes later.\n\nFive air ambulances and 25 ambulances ferried injured drivers and passengers from the scene to three hospitals. A police car was also involved in the pile-up; one firefighter responding to the crash criticised other motorists for overtaking his fire engine in excess of in the dense fog. Several cars and lorries were burnt to a shell and more than 30 occupants had to be cut free from their vehicles by firefighters.\n\nLisa Dodson, a 21-year-old student from Chaddesley Corbett, was the driver of the car, a Peugeot 205, struck by the tanker and she died from asphyxiation. Malcolm MacDonald, 53 and from Redditch, and 63-year-old Margaret Vining, from Gloucester, suffered fatal injuries in the pile-up.\n\nFairclough, then aged 46, suffered bleeding to the brain and leg injuries. In 1999, he was acquitted at Worcester Crown Court of causing death by dangerous driving but convicted of dangerous driving for his role in the collision. His driving licence was suspended for four years and he served three months in Hewell Grange prison. In November 2001 he successfully brought legal action to have the licence reinstated. A judge ordered him to take an extended driving test.\n\n"}
{"id": "56907751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56907751", "title": "ARIEL", "text": "ARIEL\n\nThe Atmospheric Remote-sensing Infrared Exoplanet Large-survey (ARIEL), is a space observatory planned for launch in 2028 as the fourth medium-class mission of the European Space Agency's Cosmic Vision programme. The mission is aimed at observing at least 1,000 known exoplanets using the transit method, studying and characterising the planets' chemical composition and thermal structures.\n\nARIEL will observe 1,000 planets orbiting distant stars and make the first large-scale survey of the chemistry of exoplanet atmospheres. The objective is to answer fundamental questions about how planetary systems form and evolve. A spectrometer will spread the light into a spectrum ('rainbow') and determine the chemical fingerprints of gases in the planets' atmospheres. This will enable scientists to understand how the chemistry of a planet links to the environment in which it forms, and how its formation and evolution are affected by its parent star. ARIEL will study a diverse population of exoplanets in a wide variety of environments, but it will focus on warm and hot planets in orbits close to their star.\n\nThe ARIEL mission was developed by a consortium of various institutions from eleven member states of the European Space Agency (ESA), and international contributors from four countries. The project is led by principal investigator Professor Giovanna Tinetti of the University College London, who had previously led the unsuccessful \"Exoplanet Characterisation Observatory\" (\"EcHO\") proposal for the M3 Cosmic Vision launch slot. Operations of the mission and the spacecraft will be handled jointly by ESA and the consortium behind the mission's development, through a coordinated Instrument Operations and Science Data Centre (IOSDC). A Mission Operations Centre (MOC) will be set up at the European Space Operations Centre (ESOC) in Darmstadt, Germany, while a concurrent ARIEL Science Operations Centre (SOC) will be set up at the European Space Astronomy Centre (ESAC) near Madrid, Spain. The MOC will be responsible for the spacecraft itself, while the SOC will be responsible for archiving mission data and scientific data downlinked from the spacecraft. The IOSDC will help develop results from the mission based on data received by the SOC.\n\nIn August 2017 NASA conditionally selected \"Contribution to ARIEL Spectroscopy of Exoplanets\" (\"CASE\") as a Partner Mission of Opportunity, pending the result of ESA's Cosmic Vision selection. Under the proposal NASA would provide two fine guidance sensors for the ARIEL spacecraft in return for the participation of US scientists in the mission.\n\nThe design of the ARIEL spacecraft is based on that intended for the \"Exoplanet Characterisation Observatory\" (\"EChO\") mission, and has heritage from the thermal design of \"Planck\". The body of the spacecraft is split into two distinct modules known as the Service Module (SVM) and the Payload Module (PLM). The SVM is shaped as a 'sandwich' structure, consisting of three aluminum V-Grooves and three pairs of low conductivity fibreglass bipod struts supporting the PLM. A basic horizontal telescope configuration is used for the PLM itself, housing all of the spacecraft's scientific instruments and its oval 1.1 × 0.7 metre (3.6 × 2.3 feet) primary mirror. At launch, the spacecraft will have a fuelled mass of ~, and will have a dry mass of ~. The PLM will account for around of that mass.\n\nThe ARIEL telescope's assembly is an off-axis Cassegrain telescope followed by a third parabolic mirror to recollimate the beam. The telescope uses an oval 1.1 × 0.7 metre (3.6 × 2.3 feet) primary mirror; the system has a diffraction limit of about 3 µm, and a focal ratio (f) of 13.4. The system will acquire images in the visible and near-infrared spectrum. Its infrared spectroscope will operate between 1.95 µm and 7.8 µm, which requires to be passively cooled to a temperature of -218°C (55 K).\n\nThe ARIEL spacecraft will be launched in mid-2028 by Arianespace's 6-2 variant of its Ariane 6 rocket, currently in development. It will be launched from the Guiana Space Centre in Kourou, French Guiana, from the l'Ensemble de Lancement Ariane 4 (Ariane Launch Area 4) being purpose-built for future Ariane 6 launches. ARIEL will be launched to the L Lagrangian point, in a position located at a distance of from Earth, where it will benefit from the planet's blockage of light from the Sun to \"maximise\" the potential for exoplanet targets.\n\nNotes\n\nCitations\n"}
{"id": "48384141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48384141", "title": "Adele at the BBC", "text": "Adele at the BBC\n\nAdele at the BBC (also known as Adele Live in London to some international markets) is a television special featuring British singer and songwriter Adele, hosted by Graham Norton for BBC One, and which was recorded at The London Studios, London, United Kingdom on 2 November 2015. The programme featured Adele and her live band performing songs from her repertoire and third studio album \"25\" (2015), as well as other songs from her other two albums, \"19\" (2008) and \"21\" (2011), alongside Adele being interviewed by Norton.\n\nThe show featured the first public performance of her single \"Hello\" and two other tracks from \"25\", and her first television appearance since the 85th Academy Awards (2013). It also featured sketch sections, where Adele interacted with her fans, including a group of Adele impersonators. The show was broadcast on Friday 20 November on BBC One from 20:30 – 21:35 GMT, the same day that her new album \"25\" was released.\n\nSince this was broadcast, numerous other artists have at \"at the BBC\" specials too: Michael Bublé, Harry Styles, Sam Smith, U2 and Ariana Grande.\n\nFollowing the release of \"21\" (2011), Adele was considering quitting the music industry altogether, stating she thought it was better to \"go out on a high\". However, in early 2012 she announced she was simply taking a hiatus from music in order to \"take time and live a little bit\". Her hiatus from music came to an end after the birth of her first child in October 2012, with Adele stating her son inspired her to start recording music again in order for him to \"know what I do\". In early October, Adele released a letter to her fans through social media addressing the album, in which she confirmed that the album would be titled \"25\".\n\nAdele confirmed that \"25\" would be released on 20 November 2015, and revealed its cover simultaneously on Facebook and Twitter. \nOn October 2, 2015 numerous music journalists began reporting that it was suspected that Adele had been offered a one-hour TV special on the BBC, however these reports were not confirmed.\nOn 27 October, following the reports BBC One announced plans for \"Adele at the BBC\", a one-hour special presented by Graham Norton in which he will talk to Adele about her new album.\nThe show was recorded before a live audience on 2 November and was transmitted on BBC One on 20 November 2015.\nTickets for the live show, which were free, were made available through a lottery style system and were requested by the public.\n\nThe show marks the first live performances by Adele of three songs from the album \"25\": \"Hello\", \"When We Were Young\", and \"Million Years Ago\".\n\n\n\nThe programme was broadcast on 20 November 2015 on BBC One, the same day that her new album \"25\" was released. BBC One aired an extended version of the programme on New Year's Day 2016, including further footage of the sketch in which Adele posed as Jenny. By 4 December 2015, footage of the scenes had been viewed 37 million times on the BBC's YouTube site, making it the most watched programme on there.\n\nPrior to the show's announcement BBC Worldwide had secured numerous pre-sales for the one-off event, with broadcasters in Belgium, Canada, the Netherlands and Spain. The BBC secured deals with VRT, CTV, NPO 3 and Canal Plus respectively for hour-long BBC One show, BBC Worldwide offered international broadcasters the choice of buying the original 60-minute version of the show, hosted by Graham Norton and with his interview with Adele, or a 45-minute performance-only edit.\n\nIn Ireland the programme was simulcast on RTÉ2, where it aired as \"Adele Live in London\".\nThe programme received a five-star review from \"The Daily Telegraph\", which described it as 'a stroke of genius' and 'old-fashioned, generous, fun and moving.'. Overnight viewing figures indicated that the one-off special was viewed by 4.54 million viewers, giving the programme a 19.8% audience share in that evening's 8.30pm timeslot.\nConsolidated figures show that the special was watched by a total of 6.36 million viewers and was the 11th most watched programme on BBC one during its week of broadcast.\n\n"}
{"id": "1955286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1955286", "title": "Battle of Bi", "text": "Battle of Bi\n\nThe Battle of Bi () was fought during the Spring and Autumn period in 597 BC, between the major states of Chǔ and Jìn. Occurring three and a half decades after the Battle of Chengpu, where Jin decisively defeated Chu, the battle was a major victory for Chu, cementing the position of its ruler King Zhuang as a hegemon among the states of the Zhou Dynasty.\n\nThe states of Jin and Chu were both among the most powerful of their time, but while Jin was considered a legitimate Zhou state in terms of culture and lineage, the state of Chu - whose territory encompassed many non-Chinese cultures in the middle Yangtze River - was considered a half-civilised state at best.\n\nJin-Chu rivalry last came to a head with the decisive defeat of Chu at the Battle of Chengpu, where Duke Wen of Jin became hegemon among the states; after the death of Duke Wen, Chu attempted to reassert its position with northern campaigns, but the presence of Zhao Dun as premier of Jin rendered them unwilling to risk direct conflict.\n\nThis situation would change dramatically with the death of Zhao Dun in 601 BC, as well as the death of Duke Cheng of Jin the following year, followed by that of Zhao's successor Xi Que () in 598 BC. King Zhuang made use of the resulting instability among the Jin leadership, and personally led a campaign northward.\n\nKing Zhuang targeted the state of Zheng, which was an ally of Jin, and successfully forced Zheng to switch allegiance to Chu. Meanwhile, Xun Linfu, the new commander of the Jin armies, led his forces to relieve Zheng, only to learn of the surrender of Zheng en route, while camped along the northern bank of the Yellow River. This created a rift among the Jin commanders, about whether to meet the Chu forces in battle.\n\nAt the same time, Chu's armies retreated by 30 \"li\" and decamped, awaiting the Jin offensive.\n\nXun Linfu, after hearing of Zheng's switch of allegiance, was in favour of retreating; however, his adjutant Xian Hu, maintaining that it would be cowardly to avoid battle as the hegemonic state, led his own troops across the Yellow River without instructions. This forced the rest of the army to follow suit.\n\nMeanwhile, on the Chu side, King Zhuang was intimidated by the presence of the Jin army; even his commander Sunshu Ao was initially in favour of retreat. Wu Can, a Chu commander, advised against this, citing the inexperience of Xun Linfu as the supreme commander, the rashness of Xian Hu as adjutant, and the conflict between the Jin commanders. King Zhuang thus resolved to face down the Jin army, even though negotiations for a truce continued between the two armies.\n\nThe battle began only when two generals from the Jin army, dissatisfied at Xun Linfu's hesitation, decided to provoke the Chu forces. King Zhuang personally pursued the generals; Xun Linfu sent a force to escort the two generals back to Jin lines, but the rolling dust from this relief force was mistaken as a general advance by the Jin army. Fearing that the king could be cut off by the army, Sunshu Ao immediately ordered a general advance from the Chu army; this unexpected attack overwhelmed Jin forces, which then collapsed and were routed.\n\nKing Zhuang, upon winning the battle, led his generals to water their horses from the Yellow River; a request to pursue and destroy the remnant forces was rebuffed on the grounds that, with the humiliation of Chengpu avenged, there was no need for more slaughter.\n"}
{"id": "12476679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12476679", "title": "Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Eurovision Song Contest 2002", "text": "Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Eurovision Song Contest 2002\n\nBosnia and Herzegovina was represented by Maja Tatic with the song Na jastuku za dvoje. The Bosnian Final was held on February 23 at the Bosnian TV studios in Sarajevo, hosted by Segmedina Srna and Mladen Vukovic. The winner was chosen by two juries - firstly a jury of 8 members chose the top 5 songs by awarding each song 1-10 points, and then after the top 5 were performed again, a different jury with 3 members chose the winner.\n\nBosnia and Herzegovina received 15 points from televoting and 15 from 50/50, but only 3 points from juries.\n"}
{"id": "234381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234381", "title": "CineMagic (film festival)", "text": "CineMagic (film festival)\n\nCinemagic is an international children's film festival in Belfast, UK, and in Dublin, Ireland, founded in 1988 that bills itself as the \"World Screen Festival\" for young people. The organisation is a company Limited By Guarantee and a registered charity.\n\nCinemagic's patrons include Dermot O'Leary, Brian Cox and Julian Fellowes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43717575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43717575", "title": "CoffeeCon", "text": "CoffeeCon\n\nCoffeeCon is the only coffee festival for enthusiasts. Unlike coffee festivals for the coffee industry this festival is for the end user. The another difference is its coffee university typically offering over 30 different coffee classes. CoffeeCon travels to major coffee cities in the United States. It was created by coffee author and video producer Kevin Sinnott who wrote the book \"The Art & Craft of Coffee\" and produced a how to video called \"Coffee Brewing Secrets\".\n\nWhile working on specialized projects, Sinnott noticed several industry B-to-B coffee events such as the Specialty Coffee Association of America and the National Coffee Association and that some local coffee shops were holding brewing seminars but there were simply no large scale festivals exclusively for coffee consumers. He decided to turn his book and his video into a live event. He created CoffeeCon as a place where coffee enthusiasts could taste samples from regional coffee roasters side-by-side, learn about coffee from national and local coffee experts by attend coffee topic classes on almost every brewing method. He hosts the event and calls it a coffee meet-up.\n\nThe first CoffeeCon was on February 25, 2012 started with a grant for the local tourism commission in Warrenville, IL. It attracted over 1,000 consumers. The second event was held May 4, 2013 again in Warrenville, IL During 2014 Sinnott decided it was time to take the show on the road. His first stop was Chicago on April 12, 2014 at the Zhou B Art Center. He wanted to add art elements to enhance the coffeehouse flavor of the event as well as a Writer's Roundtable Panel to discuss the topic of new media writing. Next stop was San Francisco on July 26, 2014 at Terra Galleries.\n\nCoffeeCon LA was on November 8, 2014 and was held at the historic Mack Sennett Studios in Silver Lake. Mack Sennett's real name was Michael Sinnott. He was a silent movie director and produced the KeyStone Cops. Kevin Sinnott stated \"It was like a coming home. I believe Mack would be proud that another Sinnott was work at his studio. CoffeeCon sited Mack Sennett Studios historic connection with CoffeeCon's founder.\n\nCoffeeCon NYC was on March 7, 2015.\n\nCoffeeCon Chicago occurred on July 25, 2015.\n\nOn January 27–28, 2017, CoffeeCon held its first ever, multi-day convention. The event was held at the Seattle Center Armory, in Seattle, Washington.\n\nFour cities are scheduled to host CoffeeCon in 2018: Los Angeles, New York, Seattle and Chicago.\n\nGeorge Howell and Kenneth Davids teach a special Taste Like An Expert seminar that teaches consumers the vocabulary of coffee tasting and trains the palate of the attendees. Coffee growers are invited to teach about coffee sustainability. Popular classes include grinding, water, hand pour methods and Turkish Coffee. Coffeemaker designers such as Alan Adler the inventor of the AeroPress and Joe Behm the inventor of the Brazen coffeemaker conduct classes on how to use their coffeemakers. Home roasting hobbyists are given space to give roasting demos. The Future of Coffee panel was a new first at CoffeeCon 2014 San Francisco and is present at every CoffeeCon.\n\n"}
{"id": "1339607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1339607", "title": "Countries affected by the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake and tsunami", "text": "Countries affected by the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake and tsunami\n\nThis article lists the countries affected by the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake and the resulting tsunami in alphabetical order – for detailed information about each country affected by the earthquake and tsunami, see their individual articles. Countries with a smaller number of casualties, as well as those that lost citizens who were travelling abroad, are listed further on in the article.\n\n10,749 casualties were confirmed on 27 January 2008, most of them in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. There were 5,640 people missing, nearly all of them on the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. In the meantime, the death toll was slashed down by 1,458, and the number of missing by 2,927 on the Andaman and Nicobar Islands.\n\nIndonesia's Ministry of Health confirmed 131,028 deaths on June 18, 2005, mainly in the northern province Aceh of the island Sumatra. Some 37,000 people are missing.\n\nDespite its proximity to the incident, Malaysia escaped the kind of damage that struck countries thousands of miles further away (most of its western coast is shielded by Sumatra). The number of deaths currently stands at 68 with 5 people missing.\n\nIn the Maldives, 82 were killed and 26 reported missing and presumed dead.\n\nIndependent media reports 90 people killed in Myanmar due to the tsunami. The official death toll is 61. Witnesses in Myanmar estimate up to 600 deaths.\n\nVillages and coastal communities in Somalia, as far as from the epicenter of the earthquake, were swept away and destroyed by the huge waves. 176 people were confirmed dead, 136 were missing and more than 50,000 were displaced.\n\nSri Lankan authorities report 31,229 confirmed deaths, and 4,093 people missing. Other authorities are speaking from 38,940 combined dead and missing people. The south and east coasts were worst hit. Nearly 2,000 of the dead were on the \"Queen of the Sea\" holiday train destroyed by the tsunami. One and a half million people were displaced from their homes, and many orphaned or separated from their families.\n\nThe Thai government reports 5,395 confirmed deaths, 8,457 injuries and 2,817 missing on 20 June 2005. Damage was confined to the six southern provinces facing the Andaman Sea. The Thai government was keen to point out that the rest of the country was operating normally, and that even some resorts in the south had re-opened.\n\n"}
{"id": "771174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=771174", "title": "Cyberterrorism", "text": "Cyberterrorism\n\nCyberterrorism is the use of the Internet to conduct violent acts that result in, or threaten, loss of life or significant bodily harm, in order to achieve political or ideological gains through threat or intimidation. It is also sometimes considered an act of Internet terrorism where terrorist activities, including acts of deliberate, large-scale disruption of computer networks, especially of personal computers attached to the Internet by means of tools such as computer viruses, computer worms, phishing, and other malicious software and hardware methods and programming scripts.\n\nCyberterrorism is a controversial term. Some authors opt for a very narrow definition, relating to deployment by known terrorist organizations of disruption attacks against information systems for the primary purpose of creating alarm, panic, or physical disruption. Other authors prefer a broader definition, which includes cybercrime. Participating in a cyberattack affects the terror threat perception, even if it isn't done with a violent approach. By some definitions, it might be difficult to distinguish which instances of online activities are cyberterrorism or cybercrime.\n\nCyberterrorism can be also defined as the intentional use of computers, networks, and public internet to cause destruction and harm for personal objectives. Experienced cyberterrorists, who are very skilled in terms of hacking can cause massive damage to government systems, hospital records, and national security programs, which might leave a country, community or organization in turmoil and in fear of further attacks. The objectives of such terrorists may be political or ideological since this can be considered a form of terror.\n\nThere is much concern from government and media sources about potential damage that could be caused by cyberterrorism, and this has prompted efforts by government agencies such as the Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) and the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) to put an end to cyber attacks and cyberterrorism.\n\nThere have been several major and minor instances of cyberterrorism. Al-Qaeda utilized the internet to communicate with supporters and even to recruit new members. Estonia, a Baltic country which is constantly evolving in terms of technology, became a battleground for cyberterror in April, 2007 after disputes regarding the removal of a WWII soviet statue located in Estonia's capital Tallinn.\n\nThere is debate over the basic definition of the scope of cyberterrorism. There is variation in qualification by motivation, targets, methods, and centrality of computer use in the act. Depending on context, cyberterrorism may overlap considerably with cybercrime, cyberwar or ordinary terrorism. Eugene Kaspersky, founder of Kaspersky Lab, now feels that \"cyberterrorism\" is a more accurate term than \"cyberwar\". He states that \"with today's attacks, you are clueless about who did it or when they will strike again. It's not cyber-war, but cyberterrorism.\" He also equates large-scale cyber weapons, such as the Flame Virus and NetTraveler Virus which his company discovered, to biological weapons, claiming that in an interconnected world, they have the potential to be equally destructive.\n\nIf cyberterrorism is treated similarly to traditional terrorism, then it only includes attacks that threaten property or lives, and can be defined as the leveraging of a target's computers and information, particularly via the Internet, to cause physical, real-world harm or severe disruption of infrastructure.\n\nMany academics and researchers who specialize in terrorism studies suggest that cyberterrorism does not exist and is really a matter of hacking or information warfare. They disagree with labeling it as terrorism because of the unlikelihood of the creation of fear, significant physical harm, or death in a population using electronic means, considering current attack and protective technologies.\n\nIf death or physical damage that could cause human harm is considered a necessary part of the cyberterrorism definition, then there have been few identifiable incidents of cyberterrorism, although there has been much policy research and public concern. Modern terrorism and political violence is not easily defined, however, and some scholars assert that it is now \"unbounded\" and not exclusively concerned with physical damage \n\nThere is an old saying that death or loss of property are the side products of terrorism, the main purpose of such incidents is to \"create terror\" in peoples' minds and harm bystanders. If any incident in cyberspace can \"create terror\", it may be rightly called cyberterrorism. For those affected by such acts, the fears of cyberterrorism are quite real.\n\nAs with cybercrime in general, the threshold of required knowledge and skills to perpetrate acts of cyberterror has been steadily diminishing thanks to freely available hacking suites and online courses. Additionally, the physical and virtual worlds are merging at an accelerated rate, making for many more targets of opportunity which is evidenced by such notable cyber attacks as Stuxnet, the Saudi petrochemical sabotage attempt in 2018 and others.\n\nAssigning a concrete definition to cyberterrorism can be hard, due to the difficulty of defining the term terrorism itself. Multiple organizations have created their own definitions, most of which are overly broad. There is also controversy concerning overuse of the term, hyperbole in the media and by security vendors trying to sell \"solutions\".\n\nOne way of understanding cyberterrorism involves the idea that terrorists could cause massive loss of life, worldwide economic chaos and environmental damage by hacking into critical infrastructure systems. The nature of cyberterrorism covers conduct involving computer or Internet technology that:\n\nThe term \"cyberterrorism\" can be used in a variety of different ways, but there are limits to its use. An attack on an Internet business can be labeled cyberterrorism, however when it is done for economic motivations rather than ideological it is typically regarded as cybercrime. Convention also limits the label \"cyberterrorism\" to actions by individuals, independent groups, or organizations. Any form of cyberwarfare conducted by governments and states would be regulated and punishable under international law.\n\nThe Technolytics Institute defines cyberterrorism as \"[t]he premeditated use of disruptive activities, or the threat thereof, against computers and/or networks, with the intention to cause harm or further social, ideological, religious, political or similar objectives. Or to intimidate any person in furtherance of such objectives.\" The term appears first in defense literature, surfacing (as \"cyber-terrorism\") in reports by the U.S. Army War College as early as 1998.\n\nThe National Conference of State Legislatures, an organization of legislators created to help policymakers in the United States of America with issues such as economy and homeland security defines cyberterrorism as:\n\n[T]he use of information technology by terrorist groups and individuals to further their agenda. This can include use of information technology to organize and execute attacks against networks, computer systems and telecommunications infrastructures, or for exchanging information or making threats electronically. Examples are hacking into computer systems, introducing viruses to vulnerable networks, web site defacing, Denial-of-service attacks, or terroristic threats made via electronic communication.\nNATO defines cyberterrorism as \"[a] cyberattack using or exploiting computer or communication networks to cause sufficient destruction or disruption to generate fear or to intimidate a society into an ideological goal\".\n\nThe United States National Infrastructure Protection Center defined cyberterrorism as: \"A criminal act perpetrated by the use of computers and telecommunications capabilities resulting in violence, destruction, and/or disruption of services to create fear by causing confusion and uncertainty within a given population, with the goal of influencing a government or population to conform to a political, social, or ideological agenda.\nThe FBI, another United States agency, defines \"cyber terrorism\" as “premeditated, politically motivated attack against information, computer systems, computer programs, and data which results in violence against non-combatant targets by subnational groups or clandestine agents”.\n\nThese definitions tend to share the view of cyberterrorism as politically and/or ideologically inclined. One area of debate is the difference between cyberterrorism and hacktivism. Hacktivism is ”the marriage of hacking with political activism”. Both actions are politically driven and involve using computers, however cyberterrorism is primarily used to cause harm. It becomes an issue because acts of violence on the computer can be labeled either cyberterrorism or hacktivism.\n\nThe following three levels of cyberterror capability are defined by Monterey group\n\n\nCyberterrorism is becoming more and more prominent on social media today. As the Internet becomes more pervasive in all areas of human endeavor, individuals or groups can use the anonymity afforded by cyberspace to threaten citizens, specific groups (i.e. with membership based on ethnicity or belief), communities and entire countries, without the inherent threat of capture, injury, or death to the attacker that being physically present would bring.\nMany groups such as Anonymous, use tools such as denial-of-service attack to attack and censor groups who oppose them, creating many concerns for freedom and respect for differences of thought.\n\nMany believe that cyberterrorism is an extreme threat to countries' economies, and fear an attack could potentially lead to another Great Depression. Several leaders agree that cyberterrorism has the highest percentage of threat over other possible attacks on U.S. territory. Although natural disasters are considered a top threat and have proven to be devastating to people and land, there is ultimately little that can be done to prevent such events from happening. Thus, the expectation is to focus more on preventative measures that will make Internet attacks impossible for execution.\n\nAs the Internet continues to expand, and computer systems continue to be assigned increased responsibility while becoming more complex and interdependent, sabotage or terrorism via the Internet may become a more serious threat and is possibly one of the top 10 events to \"end the human race.\" People have much easier access to illegal involvement within the cyberspace by the ability to access a part of the internet known as the Dark Web. The Internet of Things promises to further merge the virtual and physical worlds, which some experts see as a powerful incentive for states to use terrorist proxies in furtherance of objectives.\n\nDependence on the internet is rapidly increasing on a worldwide scale, creating a platform for international cyber terror plots to be formulated and executed as a direct threat to national security. For terrorists, cyber-based attacks have distinct advantages over physical attacks. They can be conducted remotely, anonymously, and relatively cheaply, and they do not require significant investment in weapons, explosive and personnel. The effects can be widespread and profound. Incidents of cyberterrorism are likely to increase. They will be conducted through denial of service attacks, malware, and other methods that are difficult to envision today. One example involves the deaths involving the Islamic State and the online social networks Twitter, Google, and Facebook lead to legal action being taken against them, that ultimately resulted in them being sued.\n\nIn an article about cyber attacks by Iran and North Korea, \"The New York Times\" observes, \"The appeal of digital weapons is similar to that of nuclear capability: it is a way for an outgunned, outfinanced nation to even the playing field. 'These countries are pursuing cyberweapons the same way they are pursuing nuclear weapons,' said James A. Lewis, a computer security expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. 'It's primitive; it's not top of the line, but it's good enough and they are committed to getting it.'\"\n\nPublic interest in cyberterrorism began in the late 1990s, when the term was coined by Barry C. Collin. As 2000 approached, the fear and uncertainty about the millennium bug heightened, as did the potential for attacks by cyber terrorists. Although the millennium bug was by no means a terrorist attack or plot against the world or the United States, it did act as a catalyst in sparking the fears of a possibly large-scale devastating cyber-attack. Commentators noted that many of the facts of such incidents seemed to change, often with exaggerated media reports.\n\nThe high-profile terrorist attacks in the United States on September 11, 2001 and the ensuing War on Terror by the US led to further media coverage of the potential threats of cyberterrorism in the years following. Mainstream media coverage often discusses the possibility of a large attack making use of computer networks to sabotage critical infrastructures with the aim of putting human lives in jeopardy or causing disruption on a national scale either directly or by disruption of the national economy.\n\nAuthors such as Winn Schwartau and John Arquilla are reported to have had considerable financial success selling books which described what were purported to be plausible scenarios of mayhem caused by cyberterrorism. Many critics claim that these books were unrealistic in their assessments of whether the attacks described (such as nuclear meltdowns and chemical plant explosions) were possible. A common thread throughout what critics perceive as cyberterror-hype is that of non-falsifiability; that is, when the predicted disasters fail to occur, it only goes to show how lucky we've been so far, rather than impugning the theory.\n\nIn 2016, for the first time ever, the Department of Justice charged Ardit Ferizi with cyberterrorism. He is accused of allegedly hacking into a military website and stealing the names, addresses, and other personal information of government and military personnel and selling it to ISIS\n\nAs of 2016 there have been seventeen conventions and major legal instruments that specifically deal with terrorist activities and can also be applied to cyber terrorism. \n\nThere are many different motives for cyberattacks, with the majority being for financial reasons. However, there is increasing evidence that hackers are becoming more politically motivated. Cyberterrorists are aware that governments are reliant on the internet and have exploited this as a result. For example, Mohammad Bin Ahmad As-Sālim's piece '39 Ways to Serve and Participate in Jihad' discusses how an electronic jihad could disrupt the West through targeted hacks of American websites, and other resources seen as anti-Jihad, modernist, or secular in orientation (Denning, 2010; Leyden, 2007).\n\nAs of 2016 the United Nations only has one agency that specializes in cyberterrorism, the International Telecommunications Union.\n\nThe US Department of Defense (DoD) charged the United States Strategic Command with the duty of combating cyberterrorism. This is accomplished through the Joint Task Force-Global Network Operations, which is the operational component supporting USSTRATCOM in defense of the DoD's Global Information Grid. This is done by integrating GNO capabilities into the operations of all DoD computers, networks, and systems used by DoD combatant commands, services and agencies.\n\nOn November 2, 2006, the Secretary of the Air Force announced the creation of the Air Force's newest MAJCOM, the Air Force Cyber Command, which would be tasked to monitor and defend American interest in cyberspace. The plan was however replaced by the creation of Twenty-Fourth Air Force which became active in August 2009 and would be a component of the planned United States Cyber Command.\n\nOn December 22, 2009, the White House named its head of computer security as Howard Schmidt to coordinate U.S Government, military and intelligence efforts to repel hackers. He left the position in May, 2012. Michael Daniel was appointed to the position of White House Coordinator of Cyber Security the same week and continues in the position during the second term of the Obama administration.\n\nMore recently, Obama signed an executive order to enable the US to impose sanctions on either individuals or entities that are suspected to be participating in cyber related acts. These acts were assessed to be possible threats to US national security, financial issues or foreign policy issues. U.S. authorities indicted a man over 92 cyberterrorism hacks attacks on computers used by the Department of Defense. A Nebraska-based consortium apprehended four million hacking attempts in the course of eight weeks. In 2011 cyberterrorism attacks grew 20%.\n\nThe Baltic state of Estonia was target to a massive denial-of-service attack that ultimately rendered the country offline and shut out from services dependent on Internet connectivity in April 2007. The infrastructure of Estonia including everything from online banking and mobile phone networks to government services and access to health care information was disabled for a time. The tech-dependent state experienced severe turmoil and there was a great deal of concern over the nature and intent of the attack.\n\nThe cyber attack was a result of an Estonian-Russian dispute over the removal of a bronze statue depicting a World War II-era Soviet soldier from the center of the capital, Tallinn. In the midst of the armed conflict with Russia, Georgia likewise was subject to sustained and coordinated attacks on its electronic infrastructure in August 2008. In both of these cases, circumstantial evidence point to coordinated Russian attacks, but attribution of the attacks is difficult; though both the countries blame Moscow for contributing to the cyber attacks, proof establishing legal culpability is lacking.\n\nEstonia joined NATO in 2004, which prompted NATO to carefully monitor its member state's response to the attack. NATO also feared escalation and the possibility of cascading effects beyond Estonia's border to other NATO members. In 2008, directly as a result of the attacks, NATO opened a new center of excellence on cyberdefense to conduct research and training on cyber warfare in Tallinn.\n\nThe chaos resulting from the attacks in Estonia illustrated to the world the dependence countries had on information technology. This dependence then makes countries vulnerable to future cyber attacks and terrorism.\n\nAccording to 2016 Deloitte Asia-Pacific Defense Outlook, South Korea's 'Cyber Risk Score' was 884 out of 1,000 and South Korea is found to be the most vulnerable country to cyber attacks in the Asia-Pacific region. Considering Korea's high speed internet and cutting edge technology, the infrastructure cyber security is relatively weak. In 2013, there was a 2013 South Korea cyberattack which had a huge damage on Korean economy. In 2017, there was a ransomware attack which harassed private companies and users who had to experience personal information leakage. Additionally, there were North Korea's cyber attacks which risked national security of South Korea.\n\nIn response to this, South Korean government's countermeasure is to protect the information security centres the National Intelligence Agency. Currently, 'cyber security' is one of the major goals of NIS Korea. Since 2013, South Korea had established policies related to National cyber security and trying to prevent cyber crises via sophisticated investigation on potential threats. Meanwhile, scholars emphasise on improving the national consciousness towards cyber attacks as South Korea had already entered the so-called 'hyper connected society'.\n\nThe Chinese Defense Ministry confirmed the existence of an online defense unit in May 2011. Composed of about thirty elite internet specialists, the so-called \"Cyber Blue Team\", or \"Blue Army\", is officially claimed to be engaged in cyber-defense operations, though there are fears the unit has been used to penetrate secure online systems of foreign governments.\n\nPakistan Government has also taken steps to curb the menace of cyberterrorism and extremist propaganda. National Counter Terrorism Authority (Nacta) is working on joint programs with different NGOs and other cyber security organizations in Pakistan to combat this problem. Surf Safe Pakistan is one such example. Now people in Pakistan can report extremist and terrorist related content online on Surf Safe Pakistan portal. The National Counter Terrorism Authority (NACTA) provides the Federal Government's leadership for the Surf Safe Campaign. In March 2008 an al Qaeda forum posted a training website with six training modules to learn cyberterrorism techniques.\n\nA series of powerful cyber attacks began 27 June 2017 that swamped websites of Ukrainian organizations, including banks, ministries, newspapers and electricity firms.\n\nAn operation can be done by anyone anywhere in the world, for it can be performed thousands of miles away from a target. An attack can cause serious damage to a critical infrastructure which may result in casualties.\n\nSome attacks are conducted in furtherance of political and social objectives, as the following examples illustrate:\n\n\nNon-political acts of sabotage have caused financial and other damage. In 2000, disgruntled employee Vitek Boden caused the release of 800,000 litres of untreated sewage into waterways in Maroochy Shire, Australia.\n\nMore recently, in May 2007 Estonia was subjected to a mass cyber-attack in the wake of the removal of a Russian World War II war memorial from downtown Tallinn. The attack was a distributed denial-of-service attack in which selected sites were bombarded with traffic to force them offline; nearly all Estonian government ministry networks as well as two major Estonian bank networks were knocked offline; in addition, the political party website of Estonia's Prime Minister Andrus Ansip featured a counterfeit letter of apology from Ansip for removing the memorial statue. Despite speculation that the attack had been coordinated by the Russian government, Estonia's defense minister admitted he had no conclusive evidence linking cyber attacks to Russian authorities. Russia called accusations of its involvement \"unfounded\", and neither NATO nor European Commission experts were able to find any conclusive proof of official Russian government participation. In January 2008 a man from Estonia was convicted for launching the attacks against the Estonian Reform Party website and fined.\n\nDuring the Russia-Georgia War, on 5 August 2008, three days before Georgia launched its invasion of South Ossetia, the websites for OSInform News Agency and OSRadio were hacked. The OSinform website at osinform.ru kept its header and logo, but its content was replaced by a feed to the Alania TV website content. Alania TV, a Georgian government-supported television station aimed at audiences in South Ossetia, denied any involvement in the hacking of the websites. Dmitry Medoyev, at the time the South Ossetian envoy to Moscow, claimed that Georgia was attempting to cover up information on events which occurred in the lead-up to the war. One such cyber attack caused the Parliament of Georgia and Georgian Ministry of Foreign Affairs websites to be replaced by images comparing Georgian president Mikheil Saakashvili to Adolf Hitler.\nOther attacks involved denials of service to numerous Georgian and Azerbaijani websites, such as when Russian hackers allegedly disabled the servers of the Azerbaijani Day.Az news agency.\n\nEven more recently, in October 2007, the website of Ukrainian president Viktor Yushchenko was attacked by hackers. A radical Russian nationalist youth group, the Eurasian Youth Movement, claimed responsibility.\n\nIn 1999 hackers attacked NATO computers. The computers flooded them with email and hit them with a denial-of-service attack. The hackers were protesting against the NATO bombings of the Chinese embassy in Belgrade. Businesses, public organizations and academic institutions were bombarded with highly politicized emails containing viruses from other European countries.\n\n\nWashington DC, 2003\nPress, New York, 1999\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12927792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12927792", "title": "D1NZ", "text": "D1NZ\n\nD1NZ is a production car drifting series in New Zealand. There is currently no New Zealand drifting championship so D1NZ is the premier series running as a clubsport advanced event under MotorSport New Zealand. It began early in 2003 as a small competition consisting of several drifting teams from all over the country in order to organise and regulate Drifting events on the circuit. Since then it has continued to grow larger and more professional, now involving professional drivers with sponsored cars. The series now includes two championships: Pro and Pro-sport. New competitors generally need to prove themselves in the Pro-sport championship before entering the Pro championship (unless coming from an equivalent international series). Organizers aim to promote and educate Drifting in New Zealand, with a regulated safe environment. Despite similar moniker, the series is not related to the Japanese D1 Grand Prix series. It has been recognised as the longest running drifting series in the world.\n\nThe format of a round consists of scrutineering and a drivers briefing in the morning. This is followed by a test sessions with cars being allowed out onto the track to practice and adjust settings for the particular track.\n\nQualifying is then held with the competitors allowed two passes to try qualify for the Top 32 competition. The drivers are judged based on line, angle, and style. Line involves taking a predetermined line set by the judges at drivers briefing. The line generally includes apexing each corner, or \"inside clip\", and may include \"outside clip\" points. The closer to these points, the higher the line score. Angle means maintaining an aggressive angle throughout the judged section and aggressive direction switches (aka transitions). Style refers to how aggressive the driving is during the run, the amount of smoke produced, how hard the car is pushed and the presentation of the vehicle.\n\nThe judging takes place on just a small part of the circuit, a few corners that provide good viewing and lend themselves to be ideal for drifting. The rest of the circuit is irrelevant, except as it pertains to gridding the vehicles by marshalls and setting up the car for the first judged corner.\n\nThe competition is held after the qualifying session, with only the Top 32 drivers competing, as per the judges decision in the qualifying. Drivers are entered into a battle tree (competition order) and paired off, and each battle comprises two passes with each driver taking a turn to lead. The best of the 16 battles go to the top 8 battles, then to the top 4, and then to the final or 3rd/4th place. The passes are judged as explained above, however there are a few new rules such as:\n\n\nSometimes the judges cannot agree or cannot decide. In such cases more passes may be run (i.e.: a re-run) until a winner is produced. Sometimes mechanical failure determines the battle's outcome, either during or preceding a battle. If a car cannot enter a tandem battle, the remaining entrant (who automatically advances) will drive a solo demonstration pass. In the event of apparently close or tied runs, crowds often demonstrate their desire for another run with chants of 'one more time'. It is also extremely important that crowd members pull gang signs whilst their favorite driver drifts by, this will vastly increase their chance of winning.\n\nFormally referred to as Pro-Am from the 2010 - '11 season until its name change in 2015 - '16 to Pro-Sport.\n\n"}
{"id": "2789374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2789374", "title": "DWI court", "text": "DWI court\n\nDWI courts (sometimes called DUI courts) are a form of court that exists in some United States legal jurisdictions, that use substance-abuse interventions and treatment with defendants who plead guilty of driving while intoxicated or impaired. DUI courts may focus on repeat offenders and drivers with very high levels of blood alcohol at the time of the offense. As of December, 2011, there were approximately 192 designated DUI courts in the United States, and approximately 406 drug courts that also accept DUI offenders.\n\nThe term DWI stands for driving while intoxicated, while the term DUI stands for driving under the influence. Both charges relate to operating a motor vehicle while impaired as the result of the consumption of alcohol or another intoxicant. The name given to a DWI court may vary depending upon the terminology used in the state for its impaired driving offenses.\n\nDWI courts tend to focus on the most serious cases and repeat offenders, and thus apply strict standards to the cases and defendants that come before them. Drunk and impaired driving offenses involves a substantial risk of harm and death to the driver and to others, as a foreseeable consequence of such conduct. In 1996, DWI cases accounted for 32 percent of motor vehicle traffic fatalities in the United States In 2014, alcohol was involved in 9,967 motor vehicle accident deaths, accounting for 31 percent of all traffic fatalities.\n\nIt is estimated that 6.2 percent of adults aged eighteen and older have an alcohol use disorder, characterized by an impaired ability to stop or control alcohol use. DWI courts focus on defendants who are deemed at high risk of re-offending if given a less intensive disposition. DWI courts seek to reduce impaired driving by treating alcoholism, while requiring offenders to take responsibility for their actions.\n\nStudies suggest that DWI Courts reduce both DWI recidivism and general criminal recidivism by an average of more than twelve percent, with the most successful DWI courts reducing recidivism by as much as fifty to sixty percent as compared to other forms of sentencing.\n\nDefendants who want DWI court treatment are required to abstain from drinking alcohol. Participants may also be subject to various requirements such as: \n\nWhen defining DWI offenses, states and courts must consider whether or not the charge or a specific drunk driving offense should be classified as a \"crime of violence\". If a court rules the incident as a \"crime of violence\", which would result in the charge being treated as an \"aggravated\" felony for purposes if immigration law.\n\nDWI Checkpoints may be used in conjunction with DWI courts to identify and prosecute impaired drivers.\n\n"}
{"id": "7746616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7746616", "title": "Death of Osama bin Laden", "text": "Death of Osama bin Laden\n\nOsama bin Laden, the founder and first leader of the Islamist group Al-Qaeda, was killed in Pakistan on May 2, 2011 shortly after 1:00 am PKT (20:00 UTC, May 1) by United States Navy SEALs of the U.S. Naval Special Warfare Development Group (also known as DEVGRU or SEAL Team Six). The operation, code-named Operation Neptune Spear, was carried out in a CIA-led operation with Joint Special Operations Command, commonly known as JSOC, coordinating the Special Mission Units involved in the raid. In addition to SEAL Team Six, participating units under JSOC included the 160th Special Operations Aviation Regiment (Airborne)\"—\"also known as \"Night Stalkers\"\"—\"and operators from the CIA's Special Activities Division, which recruits heavily from former JSOC Special Mission Units. The operation ended a nearly 10-year search for bin Laden, following his role in the September 11 attacks on the United States.\n\nThe raid on bin Laden's compound in Abbottabad, Pakistan was launched from Afghanistan. U.S. military officials said that after the raid U.S. forces took bin Laden's body to Afghanistan for identification, then buried him at sea within 24 hours of his death in accordance with Islamic tradition.\n\nAl-Qaeda confirmed the death on May 6 with posts made on militant websites, vowing to avenge the killing. Other Pakistani militant groups, including the Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan, vowed retaliation against the U.S. and against Pakistan for not preventing the operation. The raid was supported by over 90% of the American public, was welcomed by the United Nations, NATO, the European Union and a large number of governments, but was condemned by others, including two-thirds of the Pakistani public. Legal and ethical aspects of the killing, such as his not being taken alive despite being unarmed, were questioned by others, including Amnesty International. Also controversial was the decision not to release any photographic or DNA evidence of bin Laden's death to the public.\n\nIn the aftermath of the killing, Pakistani Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gillani formed a commission under Senior Justice Javed Iqbal to investigate the circumstances surrounding the attack. The resulting Abbottabad Commission Report, which revealed Pakistani state military and intelligence authorities' \"collective failure\" that enabled bin Laden to hide in Pakistan for nine years, was leaked to Al Jazeera on July 8, 2013.\n\nAccounts of how bin Laden was located by U.S. intelligence differ. The White House and CIA director John Brennan stated that the process began with a fragment of information unearthed in 2002, resulting in years of investigation. This account states that by September 2010, these leads followed a courier to the Abbottabad compound, where the U.S. began intensive multiplatform surveillance. According to journalist Seymour Hersh and NBC News, the U.S. was tipped off about bin Laden's location by a Pakistani intelligence officer who offered details of where the Pakistani Intelligence Service held him in detention in exchange for a bounty.\n\nIn August 2010, a former Pakistani intelligence officer approached the U.S. embassy station chief in Islamabad and offered to reveal bin Laden's location, in return for the $25 million reward, according to a retired senior U.S. intelligence official. This story was corroborated by two U.S. intelligence officials speaking to NBC News, and had been previously reported by intelligence analyst Raelynn Hillhouse. The Pakistani official informed U.S. intelligence that bin Laden had been located by Pakistani ISI in 2006, and held under house arrest near Pakistani intelligence and military centers ever since. The official passed polygraph tests, after which the U.S. began local and satellite surveillance of bin Laden's Abbottabad residence.\n\nAccording to the retired senior U.S. intelligence official speaking to Hersh, bin Laden was ill at this point, financially supported by some within Saudi Arabia, and kept by the ISI to better manage their complex relationship with Pakistani and Afghan Islamist groups. According to the official, retired CIA officials emphasized the importance of bin Laden's courier to the press, because they were nervous over torture scrutiny and possible prosecution.\n\nIn May 2015 the German newspaper \"Bild am Sonntag\" reported that Germany's Federal Intelligence Service (BND) was aware that bin Laden was in Pakistan with the knowledge of Pakistani intelligence services. The BND informed the CIA that bin Laden was in Pakistan and \"Bild am Sonntag\" states that the CIA then found his \"precise location\" through a courier. \"Der Spiegel\" questioned the veracity of the report, produced in the midst of a scandal over BND and NSA collaboration.\n\nAccording to the earlier official version of his identification from a U.S. official, identification of al-Qaeda couriers was an early priority for interrogators at CIA black sites and the Guantanamo Bay detention camp, because bin Laden was believed to communicate through such couriers while concealing his whereabouts from al-Qaeda foot soldiers and top commanders. Bin Laden was known not to use phones after 1998, when the U.S. had launched missile strikes against his bases in Afghanistan in August by tracking an associate's satellite phone.\n\nThe U.S. official had stated that by 2002, interrogators had heard uncorroborated claims about an al-Qaeda courier with the \"kunya\" Abu Ahmed al-Kuwaiti (sometimes referred to as Sheikh Abu Ahmed from Kuwait). One of those claims came from Mohammed al-Qahtani, a detainee interrogated for 48 days more or less continuously between November 23, 2002, and January 11, 2003. At some point during this period, al-Qahtani told interrogators about a man known as Abu Ahmed al-Kuwaiti who was part of the inner circle of al-Qaeda. Later in 2003, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the alleged operational chief of al-Qaeda, stated that he was acquainted with al-Kuwaiti, but that the man was not active in al-Qaeda, according to a U.S. official.\n\nAccording to a U.S. official, in 2004 a prisoner named Hassan Ghul revealed that bin Laden relied on a trusted courier known as al-Kuwaiti. Ghul stated that al-Kuwaiti was close to bin Laden as well as Khalid Sheik Mohammed and Mohammed's successor Abu Faraj al-Libbi. Ghul revealed that al-Kuwaiti had not been seen in some time, which led U.S. officials to suspect he was traveling with bin Laden. When confronted with Ghul's account, Mohammed maintained his original story. Abu Faraj al-Libbi was captured in 2005 and transferred to Guantánamo in September 2006. He told CIA interrogators that bin Laden's courier was a man named Maulawi Abd al-Khaliq Jan and denied knowing al-Kuwaiti. Because both Mohammed and al-Libbi had minimized al-Kuwaiti's importance, officials speculated that he was part of bin Laden's inner circle.\n\nIn 2007, officials learned al-Kuwaiti's real name, though they said they would disclose neither the name nor how they learned it. Pakistani officials in 2011 stated the courier's name was Ibrahim Saeed Ahmed, from Pakistan's Swat Valley. He and his brother Abrar and their families were living at bin Laden's compound, the officials said.\n\nSince the name Maulawi Abd al-Khaliq Jan appears in the JTF-GTMO detainee assessment for Abu Faraj al-Libbi released by WikiLeaks on April 24, 2011, there was speculation that the U.S. assault on the Abbottabad compound was expedited as a precaution. The CIA never found anyone named Maulawi Jan and concluded that the name was an invention of al-Libbi.\n\nA 2010 wiretap of another suspect picked up a conversation with al-Kuwaiti. CIA paramilitary operatives located al-Kuwaiti in August 2010 and followed him back to the Abbottabad compound, which led them to speculate it was bin Laden's location.\n\nThe courier and a relative (who was either a brother or a cousin) were killed in the May 2, 2011 raid. Afterward, some locals identified the men as Pashtuns named Arshad and Tareq Khan. Arshad Khan was carrying an old, noncomputerized Pakistani identification card, which identified him as from Khat Kuruna, a village near Charsadda in northwestern Pakistan. Pakistani officials have found no record of an Arshad Khan in that area and suspect the men were living under false identities.\n\nThe CIA used surveillance photos and intelligence reports to determine the identities of the inhabitants of the Abbottabad compound to which the courier was traveling. In September 2010, the CIA concluded that the compound was custom-built to hide someone of significance, very likely bin Laden. Officials surmised that he was living there with his youngest wife and family.\n\nBuilt in 2004, the three-story compound was at the end of a narrow dirt road. Google Earth maps made from satellite photographs show that the compound was not present in 2001 but had been built by the time that new images were taken in 2005. It is located northeast of the city center of Abbottabad. Abbottabad is about from the Afghanistan border on the far eastern side of Pakistan (about from India). The compound is southwest of the Pakistan Military Academy. Located on a plot of land eight times larger than those of nearby houses, the compound was surrounded by a 12-to-18-foot (3.7–5.5 m) concrete wall topped with barbed wire. It had two security gates, and the third-floor balcony had a seven-foot-high (2.1 m) privacy wall, tall enough to hide the bin Laden.\n\nThe compound had no Internet or landline telephone service. Its residents burned their refuse, unlike their neighbors, who set their garbage out for collection. Local residents called the building the \"Waziristan Haveli\", because they believed the owner was from Waziristan. Following the American raid and killing of bin Laden, the Pakistani government demolished the compound in February 2012.\n\nThe CIA led the effort to surveil and gather intelligence on the compound; other critical roles in the operation were played by other United States agencies, including the National Security Agency, National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA), Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI) and U.S. Defense Department. U.S. officials told \"The Washington Post\" that the intelligence-gathering effort \"was so extensive and costly that the CIA went to Congress in December [2010] to secure authority to reallocate tens of millions of dollars within assorted agency budgets to fund it.\"\n\nThe CIA rented a home in Abbottabad from which a team staked out and observed the compound over a number of months. The CIA team used informants and other techniques – including a widely criticized fake polio vaccination program – to gather intelligence on the compound. The safe house was abandoned immediately after bin Laden's death. The U.S. National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency helped the Joint Special Operations Command create mission simulators for the pilots, and analyzed data from an RQ-170 drone before, during and after the raid on the compound. The NGA created three-dimensional renderings of the house, created schedules describing residential traffic patterns, and assessed the number, height and gender of the residents of the compound. Also involved in the intelligence gathering measures were an arm of the National Security Agency known as the Tailored Access Operations group which, among other things, is specialized in surreptitiously installing spyware and tracking devices on targeted computers and mobile-phone networks. Because of the work of the Tailored Access Operations group, the NSA could collect intelligence from mobile phones that were used by al-Qaeda operatives and other \"persons of interest\" in the hunt for bin Laden.\n\nThe design of bin Laden's compound may have ultimately contributed to his discovery. A former CIA official involved in the manhunt told \"The Washington Post\": \"The place was three stories high, and you could watch it from a variety of angles.\"\n\nThe CIA used a process called \"red teaming\" on the collected intelligence to independently review the circumstantial evidence and available facts of their case that bin Laden was living at the Abbottabad compound. An administration official stated, \"We conducted red-team exercises and other forms of alternative analysis to check our work. No other candidate fit the bill as well as bin Laden did.\"\n\nDespite what officials described as an extraordinarily concentrated collection effort leading up to the operation, no U.S. spy agency was ever able to capture a photograph of bin Laden at the compound before the raid or a recording of the voice of the mysterious male figure whose family occupied the structure's top two floors.\n\nThe official mission code name was \"Operation Neptune Spear\". Neptune's spear is the trident, which appears on the U.S. Navy's Special Warfare insignia, with the three prongs of the trident representing the operational capacity of SEALs on sea, air and land.\n\nThe Associated Press reported at the time two U.S. officials as stating the operation was \"a kill-or-capture mission, since the U.S. doesn't kill unarmed people trying to surrender\", but that \"it was clear from the beginning that whoever was behind those walls had no intention of surrendering\". White House counterterrorism advisor John O. Brennan said after the raid: \"If we had the opportunity to take bin Laden alive, if he didn't present any threat, the individuals involved were able and prepared to do that.\" CIA Director Leon Panetta said on \"PBS NewsHour\": \"The authority here was to kill bin Laden. ... Obviously under the rules of engagement, if he in fact had thrown up his hands, surrendered and didn't appear to be representing any kind of threat, then they were to capture him. But, they had full authority to kill him.\"\n\nA U.S. national security official, who was not named, told Reuters that \"'this was a kill operation', making clear there was no desire to try to capture bin Laden alive in Pakistan\". Another source referencing a \"kill\" (rather than \"capture\") order stated, \"Officials described the reaction of the special operators when they were told a number of weeks ago that they had been chosen to train for the mission. 'They were told, \"We think we found Osama bin Laden, and your job is to kill him,\"' an official recalled. \"The SEALs started to cheer.\"\n\nThe CIA briefed Vice Admiral William H. McRaven, the commander of the Joint Special Operations Command (JSOC), about the compound in January 2011. McRaven said a commando raid would be fairly straightforward but he was concerned about the Pakistani response. He assigned a captain from the U.S. Naval Special Warfare Development Group (DEVGRU) to work with a CIA team at their campus in Langley, Virginia. The captain, named \"Brian\", set up an office in the printing plant in the CIA's Langley compound and, with six other JSOC officers, began to plan the raid. Administration attorneys considered legal implications and options before the raid.\n\nIn addition to a helicopter raid, planners considered attacking the compound with B-2 Spirit stealth bombers. They also considered a joint operation with Pakistani forces. Obama decided that the Pakistani government and military could not be trusted to maintain operational security for the operation against bin Laden. \"There was a real lack of confidence that the Pakistanis could keep this secret for more than a nanosecond,\" a senior adviser to the President told \"The New Yorker\".\n\nObama met with the National Security Council on March 14 to review the options; he was concerned that the mission would be exposed and wanted to proceed quickly. For that reason he ruled out involving the Pakistanis. Defense Secretary Robert Gates and other military officials expressed doubts as to whether bin Laden was in the compound, and whether a commando raid was worth the risk. At the end of the meeting, the president seemed to be leaning toward a bombing mission. Two U.S. Air Force officers were tasked with exploring that option further.\n\nThe CIA was unable to rule out the existence of an underground bunker below the compound. Presuming that one existed, 32 bombs fitted with JDAM guidance systems would be required to destroy it. With that amount of ordnance, at least one other house was in the blast radius. Estimates were that up to a dozen civilians would be killed in addition to those in the compound. Furthermore, it was unlikely there would be enough evidence remaining to prove that bin Laden was dead. Presented with this information at the next Security Council meeting on March 29, Obama put the bombing plan on hold. Instead he directed Admiral McRaven to develop the plan for a helicopter raid. The U.S. intelligence community also studied an option of hitting bin Laden with a drone-fired small tactical munition as he paced in his compound's vegetable garden.\n\nMcRaven hand-picked a team drawing from the most experienced and senior operators from Red Squadron, one of four that make up DEVGRU. Red Squadron was coming home from Afghanistan and could be redirected without attracting attention. The team had language skills and experience with cross-border operations into Pakistan. Almost all of the Red Squadron operators had 10 or more deployments to Afghanistan.\n\nWithout being told the exact nature of their mission, the team performed rehearsals of the raid in two locations in the U.S.—around April 10 at Harvey Point Defense Testing Activity facility in North Carolina where a 1:1 version of bin Laden's compound was built, and April 18 in Nevada. The location in Nevada was at elevation—chosen to test the effects the altitude would have on the raiders' helicopters. The Nevada mock-up used chain-link fences to simulate the compound walls, which left the U.S. participants unaware of the potential effects of the high compound walls on the helicopters' lift capabilities.\n\nPlanners believed the SEALs could get to Abbottabad and back without being challenged by the Pakistani military. The helicopters to be used in the raid had been designed to be quiet and to have low radar visibility. Since the U.S. had helped equip and train the Pakistanis, their defensive capabilities were known. The U.S. had supplied F-16 Fighting Falcons to Pakistan on the condition they were kept at a Pakistani military base under 24-hour U.S. surveillance.\n\nIf bin Laden surrendered, he would be held near Bagram Air Base. If the SEALs were discovered by the Pakistanis in the middle of the raid, Joint Chiefs Chairman Admiral Mike Mullen would call Pakistan's army chief General Ashfaq Parvez Kayani and try to negotiate their release.\n\nWhen the National Security Council (NSC) met again on April 19, Obama gave provisional approval for the helicopter raid. He was worried that the plan for dealing with the Pakistanis was too uncertain, Obama asked Admiral McRaven to equip the team to fight its way out if necessary.\n\nMcRaven and the SEALs left for Afghanistan to practice at a one-acre, full-scale replica of the compound built on a restricted area of Bagram known as Camp Alpha. The team departed the U.S. from Naval Air Station Oceana on April 26 in a C-17 aircraft, refueled on the ground at Ramstein Air Base in Germany, landed at Bagram Air Base, then moved to Jalalabad on April 27.\n\nOn April 28, Admiral Mullen explained the final plan to the NSC. To bolster the \"fight your way out\" scenario, Chinook helicopters with additional troops would be positioned nearby. Most of the advisers in the meeting supported going forward with the raid. Only Vice President Biden completely opposed it. Gates advocated using the drone missile option, but changed his support the next day to the helicopter raid plan. Obama said he wanted to speak directly to Admiral McRaven before he gave the order to proceed. The president asked if McRaven had learned anything since arriving in Afghanistan that caused him to lose confidence in the mission. McRaven told him the team was ready and that the next few nights would have little moonlight over Abbottabad, good conditions for a raid.\n\nOn April 29 at 8:20 a.m. EDT, Obama conferred with his advisers and gave the final go-ahead. The raid would take place the following day. That evening the president was informed that the operation would be delayed one day due to cloudy weather.\n\nOn April 30, Obama called McRaven one more time to wish the SEALs well and to thank them for their service. That evening, the President attended the annual White House Correspondent's Association dinner, which was hosted by comedian and television actor Seth Meyers. At one point, Meyers joked: \"People think bin Laden is hiding in the Hindu Kush, but did you know that every day from 4 to 5 he hosts a show on C-SPAN?\" Obama laughed, despite his knowledge of the operation to come.\n\nOn May 1 at 1:22 p.m., Panetta, acting on the president's orders, directed McRaven to move forward with the operation. Shortly after 3 p.m., the president joined national security officials in the Situation Room to monitor the raid. They watched night-vision images taken from a Sentinel drone while Panetta, appearing in a corner of the screen from CIA headquarters, narrated what was happening. Video links with Panetta at CIA headquarters and McRaven in Afghanistan were set up in the Situation Room. In an adjoining office was the live drone feed presented on a laptop computer operated by Brigadier General Marshall Webb, assistant commander of JSOC. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton was one of those in the Situation Room, and described it like this: \"Contrary to some news reports and what you see in the movies, we had no means to see what was happening inside the building itself. All we could do was wait for an update from the team on the ground. I looked at the President. He was calm. Rarely have I been prouder to serve by his side as I was that day.\" Two other command centers monitored the raid from the Pentagon and the U.S. embassy in Islamabad.\n\nThe raid was carried out by approximately two dozen heliborne U.S. Navy SEALs from DEVGRU's Red Squadron. For legal reasons (namely that the U.S. was not at war with Pakistan), the military personnel assigned to the mission were temporarily transferred to the control of the civilian Central Intelligence Agency. \n\nThe SEALs operated in teams and used weapons including the HK416 assault rifle (their main weapon), Mark. 48 machine guns used for fire support, and the MP7 personal defense weapon used by some SEALs for close quarters and greater silence.\n\nAccording to \"The New York Times\", a total of \"79 commandos and a dog\" were involved in the raid. The military working dog was a Belgian Malinois named Cairo. According to one report, the dog was tasked with tracking \"anyone who tried to escape and to alert SEALs to any approaching Pakistani security forces\". The dog was to be used to help deter any Pakistani ground response to the raid and to help look for any hidden rooms or hidden doors in the compound. Additional personnel on the mission included a language interpreter, the dog handler, helicopter pilots, plus intelligence collectors, and navigators using highly classified hyperspectral imagers to view the operation.\n\nThe SEALs flew into Pakistan from a staging base in the city of Jalalabad in eastern Afghanistan after originating at Bagram Air Base in northeastern Afghanistan. The 160th Special Operations Aviation Regiment (SOAR), a U.S. Army Special Operations Command unit known as the \"Night Stalkers\", provided the two modified Black Hawk helicopters that were used for the raid itself, as well as the much larger Chinook heavy-lift helicopters that were employed as backups.\n\nThe Black Hawks used previously unseen \"stealth\" versions of the helicopter that fly more quietly and are harder to detect on radar than conventional models; due to the weight of the extra stealth equipment on the Black Hawks, cargo was \"calculated to the ounce, with the weather factored in.\"\n\nThe Chinooks kept on standby were on the ground \"in a deserted area roughly two-thirds of the way\" from Jalalabad to Abbottabad, with two additional SEAL teams consisting of approximately 24 DEVGRU operators for a \"quick reaction force\" (QRF). The Chinooks were equipped with 7.62mm GAU-17/A miniguns and GAU-21/B .50-caliber machine guns and extra fuel for the Black Hawks. Their mission was to interdict any Pakistani military attempts to interfere with the raid. Other Chinooks, holding 25 more SEALs from DEVGRU, were stationed just across the border in Afghanistan in case reinforcements were needed during the raid.\n\nThe 160th SOAR helicopters were supported by multiple other aircraft, including fixed-wing fighter jets and drones. According to CNN, \"the Air Force had a full team of combat search-and-rescue helicopters available\".\n\nThe raid was scheduled for a time with little moonlight so the helicopters could enter Pakistan \"low to the ground and undetected\". The helicopters used hilly terrain and nap-of-the-earth techniques to reach the compound without appearing on radar and alerting the Pakistani military. The flight from Jalalabad to Abbottabad took about 90 minutes.\n\nAccording to the mission plan, the first helicopter would hover over the compound's yard while its full team of SEALs fast-roped to the ground. At the same time, the second helicopter would fly to the northeast corner of the compound and deploy the interpreter, the dog and handler, and four SEALs to secure the perimeter. The team in the courtyard was to enter the house from the ground floor.\n\nAs they hovered above the target the first helicopter experienced a hazardous airflow condition known as a vortex ring state. This was aggravated by higher than expected air temperature) and the high compound walls, which stopped the rotor downwash from diffusing. The helicopter's tail grazed one of the compound's walls, damaging its tail rotor, and the helicopter rolled onto its side. The pilot quickly buried the helicopter's nose to keep it from tipping over. None of the SEALs, crew and pilots on the helicopter were seriously injured in the soft crash landing, which ended with it pitched at a 45-degree angle resting against the wall. The other helicopter landed outside the compound and the SEALs scaled the walls to get inside. The SEALs advanced into the house, breaching walls and doors with explosives.\n\nThe SEALs encountered the residents in the compound's guest house, in its main building on the first floor where two adult males lived, and on the second and third floors where bin Laden lived with his family. The second and third floors were the last section of the compound to be cleared. There were reportedly \"small knots of children ... on every level, including the balcony of bin Laden's room\".\n\nOsama bin Laden was killed in the raid and initial versions said three other men and a woman were killed as well: bin Laden's adult son Khalid, bin Laden's courier Abu Ahmed al-Kuwaiti, al-Kuwaiti's brother Abrar, and Abrar's wife Bushra.\n\nConflicting reports of an initial firefight exist. Owen's states that the team were in a \"short firefight\" before reaching bin Laden.\nAn intelligence official told Seymour Hersh in 2015 that no firefight took place. In the earlier versions, Al-Kuwaiti is said to have opened fire on the first team of SEALs with an AK-47 from behind the guesthouse door, lightly injuring a SEAL with bullet fragments. A short firefight took place between al-Kuwaiti and the SEALs, in which al-Kuwaiti was killed. His wife Mariam was allegedly shot and wounded in the right shoulder. The courier's male relative Abrar was then said to have been shot and killed by the SEALs' second team on the first floor of the main house as shots had already been fired and the SEALs thought that he was armed with a loaded AK-47 (this was later confirmed to be true in the official report). A woman near him, later identified as Abrar's wife Bushra, was in this version also shot and killed. Bin Laden's young adult son is said to have encountered the SEALs on the staircase of the main house, and to have been shot and killed by the second team. An unnamed U.S. senior defense official stated that only one of the five people killed, Abu Ahmed al-Kuwaiti, was armed. The interior of the house was pitch dark, because CIA operatives had cut the power to the neighborhood. The SEALs wore night vision goggles.\n\nThe SEALs encountered bin Laden on the third floor of the main building. Bin Laden was \"wearing the local loose-fitting tunic and pants known as a \"kurta paijama\"\", which were later found to have €500 and two phone numbers sewn into the fabric.\n\nBin Laden peered through his bedroom door at the Americans advancing up the stairs, and then retreated into the room as the lead SEAL fired a shot or shots at him. Reports differ, though agree eventually he was hit by shots to the body and head. The initial shots either missed, hit him in the side, or hit him in the head. Robert O’Neill, who later publicly identified himself as the SEAL who shot bin Laden, rolled through the door and confronted bin Laden inside the bedroom. Seymour Hersh reports that, according to his sources, bin Laden was found cowering and shot dead.\n\nO'Neill states that bin Laden was standing behind a woman with his hands on her shoulders, pushing her forward. O'Neill immediately shot bin Laden twice in the forehead, then once more as bin Laden crumpled to the floor. Matt Bissonnette, who entered the room at about the same time, also claims to have fired shots into bin Laden's fallen body. Simultaneously, in these versions, one of bin Laden's wives, Amal Ahmed Abdul Fatah, is said to have screamed at the SEALs in Arabic and motioned as if she were about to charge. The lead SEAL shot her in the leg, then grabbed both women and shoved them aside. The weapon used to kill bin Laden was an HK416 using 5.56mm NATO 77-grain OTM (open-tip match) rounds made by Black Hills Ammunition. The SEAL team leader radioed, \"For God and country—Geronimo, Geronimo, Geronimo\" and then, after being prompted by McRaven for confirmation, \"Geronimo EKIA\" (enemy killed in action). Watching the operation in the White House Situation Room, Obama simply said, \"We got him.\"\n\nIn these reports, there were said to be two weapons near bin Laden in his room, including an AKS-74U carbine and a Russian-made Makarov pistol, but according to his wife Amal, he was shot before he could reach his AKS-74U. According to the Associated Press, the guns were on a shelf next to the door and the SEALs did not see them until they were photographing the body.\n\nAs the SEALs encountered women and children during the raid, they restrained them with plastic handcuffs or zip ties. After the raid was over, U.S. forces moved the surviving residents outside \"for Pakistani forces to discover\". The injured Amal Ahmed Abdul Fatah continued to harangue the raiders in Arabic. Bin Laden's 12-year-old daughter Safia was allegedly struck in her foot or ankle by a piece of flying debris.\n\nWhile bin Laden's body was taken by U.S. forces, the bodies of the four others killed in the raid were left behind at the compound and later taken into Pakistani custody.\n\nThe raid was intended to take 40 minutes. The time between the team's entry in and exit from the compound was 38 minutes. According to the Associated Press, the assault was completed in the first 15 minutes.\n\nTime in the compound was spent killing defenders, \"moving carefully through the compound, room to room, floor to floor\" securing the women and children, clearing \"weapons stashes and barricades\" including a false door, and searching the compound for information. U.S. personnel recovered three Kalashnikov rifles and two pistols, ten computer hard drives, documents, DVDs, almost a hundred thumb drives, a dozen cell phones, and \"electronic equipment\" for later analysis. The SEALs also discovered a large amount of opium stored in the house.\n\nSince the helicopter that had made the emergency landing was damaged and unable to fly the team out, it was destroyed to safeguard its classified equipment, including an apparent stealth capability. The pilot smashed \"the instrument panel, the radio, and the other classified fixtures inside the cockpit\", and the SEALs \"[packed] the helicopter with explosives and [blew] it up\". Since the SEAL team was reduced to one operational helicopter, one of the two Chinooks held in reserve was dispatched to carry part of the team and bin Laden's body out of Pakistan.\n\nWhile the official Department of Defense narrative did not mention the airbases used in the operation, later accounts indicated that the helicopters returned to Bagram Airfield. The body of Osama bin Laden was flown from Bagram to the aircraft carrier in a V-22 Osprey tiltrotor aircraft escorted by two U.S. Navy F/A-18 fighter jets.\n\nAccording to U.S. officials, bin Laden was buried at sea because no country would accept his remains. Before disposing of the body, the U.S. called the Saudi Arabian government, who approved of burying the body in the ocean. Muslim religious rites were performed aboard \"Carl Vinson\" in the North Arabian Sea within 24 hours of bin Laden's death. Preparations began at 10:10 a.m. local time and at-sea burial was completed at 11 am. The body was washed, wrapped in a white sheet and placed in a weighted plastic bag. An officer read prepared religious remarks which were translated into Arabic by a native speaker. Afterward, bin Laden's body was placed onto a flat board. The board was tilted upward on one side and the body slid off into the sea.\n\nIn \"Worthy Fights: A Memoir of Leadership in War and Peace\", Leon Panetta wrote that bin Laden's body was draped in a white shroud, given final prayers in Arabic and placed inside a black bag loaded with of iron chains, apparently to ensure that it would sink and never float. The body bag was placed on a white table at the rail of the ship, and the table was tipped to let the body bag slide into the sea, but the body bag did not slide and took the table with it. The table bobbed on the surface while the weighted body sank.\n\nAccording to Obama administration officials, U.S. officials did not share information about the raid with the government of Pakistan until it was over. Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Michael Mullen called Pakistan's army chief Ashfaq Parvez Kayani at about 3 am local time to inform him of the operation.\n\nAccording to the Pakistani foreign ministry, the operation was conducted entirely by the U.S. forces. Pakistan Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) officials said they were present at what they called a joint operation; President Asif Ali Zardari flatly denied this. Pakistan's foreign secretary Salman Bashir later confirmed that Pakistani military had scrambled F-16s after they became aware of the attack but that they reached the compound after the U.S. helicopters had left.\n\nU.S. forces used multiple methods to positively identify the body of Osama bin Laden:\n\n\nBeginning at 12:58 a.m. local time (19:58 UTC), Abbottabad resident Sohaib Athar sent a series of tweets starting with \"Helicopter hovering above Abbottabad at 1AM (is a rare event).\" By 1:44 a.m. all was quiet until a plane flew over the city at 3:39 a.m. Neighbors took to their roofs and watched as U.S. special operations forces stormed the compound. One neighbor said, \"I saw soldiers emerging from the helicopters and advancing towards the house. Some of them instructed us in chaste Pashto to turn off the lights and stay inside.\" Another man said he heard shooting and screams, then an explosion as a grounded helicopter was destroyed. The blast broke his bedroom window and left charred debris over a nearby field. A local security officer said he entered the compound shortly after the Americans left, before it was sealed off by the army. \"There were four dead bodies, three male and one female and one female was injured\", he said. \"There was a lot of blood on the floor and one could easily see the marks like a dead body had been dragged out of the compound.\" Numerous witnesses reported that power, and possibly cellphone service, went out around the time of the raid and apparently included the military academy. Accounts differed as to the exact time of the blackout. One journalist concluded after interviewing several residents that it was a routine rolling blackout.\n\nISI reported after questioning survivors of the raid that there were 17 to 18 people in the compound at the time of the attack and that the Americans took away one person still alive, possibly a bin Laden son. The ISI said that survivors included a wife, a daughter and eight to nine other children, not apparently bin Laden's. An unnamed Pakistani security official was quoted as saying one of bin Laden's daughters told Pakistani investigators that bin Laden had been captured alive, then in front of family members was shot dead by U.S. forces and dragged to a helicopter.\n\nU.S. officials said there were 22 people in the compound. Five were killed, including Osama bin Laden. Pakistani officials gave conflicting reports suggesting between 12 and 17 survivors. \"The Sunday Times\" subsequently published excerpts from a pocket guide, presumably dropped by the SEALs during the raid, containing pictures and descriptions of likely compound residents. The guide listed several adult children of bin Laden and their families who were not ultimately found in the compound. Because of a lack of accurate information, some of what follows cannot be verified as true.\n\nAt around 9:45 p.m. EDT, the White House announced that the president would be addressing the nation later in the evening. At 10:24:05 p.m. EDT the first public leak was made by Navy Reserve intel officer Keith Urbahn and 47 seconds later by actor and professional wrestler Dwayne Johnson on Twitter. Anonymous government officials confirmed details to the media, and by 11 p.m. numerous major news sources were reporting that bin Laden was dead; the number of leaks were characterized as \"voluminous\" by David E. Sanger.\n\nAt 11:35 p.m., Obama appeared on major television networks:\n\nGood evening. Tonight, I can report to the American people and to the world that the United States has conducted an operation that killed Osama bin Laden, the leader of al-Qaeda, and a terrorist who was responsible for the murder of thousands of innocent men, women, and children ... \n\nPresident Obama recalled the victims of the September 11 attacks. He praised the nearly ten-year-old war against al-Qaeda, which he said had disrupted terrorist plots, strengthened homeland defenses, removed the Taliban government, and captured or killed scores of al-Qaeda operatives. Obama said that when he took office he made finding bin Laden the top priority of the war. Bin Laden's death was the most significant blow to al-Qaeda so far but the war would continue. He reaffirmed that the U.S. was not at war against Islam and defended his decision to conduct an operation within Pakistan. He said Americans understood the cost of war but would not stand by while their security was threatened. \"To those families who have lost loved ones to al-Qaeda's terror,\" he said, \"justice has been done.\" This remark book-ended President Bush's statement to a joint session of Congress following the September 11 attacks that \"justice will be done.\" \n\nBefore the official announcement, large crowds spontaneously gathered outside the White House, Ground Zero, The Pentagon and in New York's Times Square to celebrate. In Dearborn, Michigan, where there is a large Muslim and Arab population, a small crowd gathered outside the City Hall in celebration, many of them being of Middle Eastern descent. From the beginning to the end of Obama's speech, 5,000 tweets per second were posted on Twitter. As news of bin Laden's death filtered through the crowd at a nationally televised Major League Baseball game in Philadelphia between rivals Philadelphia Phillies and the New York Mets, \"U-S-A!\" cheers began. In Tampa, Florida, at the conclusion of a professional wrestling event which was occurring at the time, WWE Champion John Cena announced to the audience that bin Laden had been \"caught and compromised to a permanent end\", prompting chants while he exited the arena to the march \"The Stars and Stripes Forever\".\n\nThe deputy leader of Egypt's Muslim Brotherhood said that, with bin Laden dead, Western forces should now pull out of Iraq and Afghanistan; authorities in Iran made similar comments. Palestinian Authority leaders had contrasting reactions. Mahmoud Abbas welcomed bin Laden's death, while Ismail Haniyeh, the head of the Hamas administration in the Gaza Strip, condemned what he saw as the assassination of an \"Arab holy warrior\".\n\nThe 14th Dalai Lama was quoted by the \"Los Angeles Times\" as saying, \"Forgiveness doesn't mean forget what happened. ... If something is serious and it is necessary to take counter-measures, you have to take counter-measures.\" This was widely reported as an endorsement of bin Laden's killing and was criticized in Buddhist circles, but another journalist cited a video of the discussion to argue that the comment was taken out of context and the Dalai Lama only supports killing in self-defense.\n\nA CBS/\"The New York Times\" poll taken after bin Laden's death showed that 16% of Americans feel safer as the result of his death while 60% of Americans of those polled believe killing bin Laden would likely increase the threat of terrorism against the U.S. in the short term.\n\nIn India, Minister for Home Affairs P. Chidambaram said that bin Laden hiding \"deep inside\" Pakistan was a matter of grave concern for India and showed that \"many of the perpetrators of the Mumbai terror attacks, including the controllers and the handlers of the terrorists who actually carried out the attack, continue to be sheltered in Pakistan\". He also called on Pakistan to arrest them, amidst calls for similar strikes being conducted by India against Hafiz Saeed and Dawood Ibrahim.\n\nAlthough the Abbottabad raid has been described in great detail by U.S. officials, no physical evidence constituting \"proof of death\" has been offered to the public, neither to journalists nor to independent third parties who have requested this information through the Freedom of Information Act. Numerous organizations filed FOIA requests seeking at least a partial release of photographs, videos, and/or DNA test results, including The Associated Press, Reuters, CBS News, Judicial Watch, Politico, Fox News, Citizens United, and NPR. On April 26, 2012, Judge James E. Boasberg held that the Department of Defense was not required to release any evidence to the public.\n\nAccording to a draft report by the Pentagon's inspector general, Admiral William McRaven, the top special operations commander, ordered the Department of Defense to purge from its computer systems all files on the bin Laden raid after first sending them to the CIA. Any mention of this decision was expunged from the final version of the inspector general's report. According to the Pentagon, this was done to protect the identities of the Navy SEALs involved in the raid. The legal justification for the records transfer is that the SEALs were effectively working for the CIA at the time of the raid, which ostensibly means that any records of the raid belong to the CIA. \"Documents related to the raid were handled in a manner consistent with the fact that the operation was conducted under the direction of the CIA director\", CIA agency spokesman Preston Golson said in an emailed statement. \"Records of a CIA operation such as the (bin Laden) raid, which were created during the conduct of the operation by persons acting under the authority of the CIA Director, are CIA records.\" Golson said it is \"absolutely false\" that records were moved to the CIA to avoid the legal requirements of the Freedom of Information Act. The National Security Archive has criticized this maneuver, saying that the records have now gone into a \"FOIA black hole\":\n\nWhat the transfer really did was ensure that the files would be placed in the CIA's operational records, a records system that—due to the 1986 CIA Operational Files exemption—is not subject to the FOIA and is a black hole for anyone trying to access the files within. The move prevents the public from accessing the official record about the raid, and bypasses several important federal records keeping procedures in the process.\n\nThe United States Defense Department can prevent the release of its own military files citing risks to national security, but that can be contested in court, and a judge can compel the Pentagon to turn over non-sensitive portions of records. The CIA has special authority to prevent the release of \"operational files\" in ways that cannot be challenged in federal court. Richard Lardner, reporting for the Associated Press, wrote that the maneuver \"could represent a new strategy for the U.S. government to shield even its most sensitive activities from public scrutiny.\"\n\nThe inspector general's draft report also described how former Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta disclosed classified information to the makers of \"Zero Dark Thirty\", including the unit that conducted the raid and the ground commander's name.\n\nFollowing the attacks of September 11, 2001, the U.S. Congress passed the Authorization for Use of Military Force Against Terrorists, which authorized the President to use \"necessary and appropriate force against those nations, organizations, or persons\" he determines were involved in the attacks. The Obama administration justified its use of force by relying on that resolution, as well as international law set forth in treaties and customary laws of war.\nJohn Bellinger III, who served as the U.S. State Department's senior lawyer during President George W. Bush's second term, said the strike was a legitimate military action and did not run counter to the U.S.' self-imposed prohibition on assassinations:\n\nThe killing is not prohibited by the long-standing assassination prohibition in executive order 12333 [signed in 1981], because the action was a military action in the ongoing U.S. armed conflict with al-Qaeda, and it is not prohibited to kill specific leaders of an opposing force. The assassination prohibition does not apply to killings in self-defense.\n\nSimilarly, Harold Hongju Koh, Legal Adviser of the U.S. State Department, said in 2010 that \"under domestic law, the use of lawful weapons systems—consistent with the applicable laws of war—for precision targeting of specific high-level belligerent leaders when acting in self-defense or during an armed conflict is not unlawful, and hence does not constitute 'assassination'.\"\n\nDavid Scheffer, director of the Northwestern University School of Law Center for International Human Rights, said the fact that bin Laden had previously been indicted in 1998 in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York for conspiracy to attack U.S. defense installations was a complicating factor. \"Normally when an individual is under indictment the purpose is to capture that person in order to bring him to court to try him ... The object is not to literally summarily execute him if he's under indictment.\" Scheffer and another expert stated that it was important to determine whether the mission was to capture bin Laden or to kill him. If the Navy SEALs were instructed to kill bin Laden without trying first to capture him, it \"may have violated American ideals if not international law.\"\n\nIn an address to the Pakistani parliament, Pakistan's Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gillani said, \"Our people are rightly incensed on the issue of violation of sovereignty as typified by the covert U.S. air and ground assault on the Osama hideout in Abbottabad. ... The Security Council, while exhorting UN member states to join their efforts against terrorism, has repeatedly emphasized that this be done in accordance with international law, human rights and humanitarian law.\" Former Pakistani President Gen. Pervez Musharraf denied a report in \"The Guardian\" that his government made a secret agreement permitting U.S. forces to conduct unilateral raids in search of the top three al-Qaeda leaders.\n\nIn testimony before the U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee, Attorney General Eric Holder said, \"The operation against bin Laden was justified as an act of national self-defense. It's lawful to target an enemy commander in the field.\" He called the killing of bin Laden \"a tremendous step forward in attaining justice for the nearly 3,000 innocent Americans who were murdered on September 11, 2001.\" Commenting on the legality under international law, University of Michigan Law Professor Steven Ratner said, \"A lot of it depends on whether you believe Osama bin Laden is a combatant in a war or a suspect in a mass murder.\" In the latter case, \"you would only be able to kill a suspect if they represented an immediate threat\".\n\nHolder testified that bin Laden made no attempt to surrender, and \"even if he had there would be a good basis on the part of those very brave Navy SEAL team members to do what they did in order to protect themselves and the other people who were in that building.\" According to Anthony Dworkin, an international law expert at the European Council on Foreign Relations, if bin Laden was \"hors de combat\" (as his daughter is said to have alleged) that would have been a violation of Protocol I of the Geneva Conventions.\n\nFormer Nuremberg prosecutor Benjamin B. Ferencz stated it was unclear if bin Laden's killing was justified self-defense or premeditated illegal assassination, and that \"killing a captive who poses no immediate threat is a crime under military law as well as all other law,\" a view also held by legal scholar Philippe Sands.\n\nThe UN Security Council released a statement applauding the news of bin Laden's death, and UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said he was \"very much relieved.\" Two United Nations Special Rapporteurs issued a joint statement seeking more information regarding the circumstances in which bin Laden was killed and cautioning that \"actions taken by States in combating terrorism, especially in high profile cases, set precedents for the way in which the right to life will be treated in future instances.\"\n\nUnder Islamic tradition, burial at sea is considered inappropriate when other, preferred forms of burial are available, and several prominent Islamic clerics criticized the decision. Mohamed Ahmed el-Tayeb, the head of Al-Azhar University, Egypt's seat of Sunni Muslim learning, said the disposal of the body at sea was an affront to religious and human values. Scholars like el-Tayeb hold that sea burials can only be allowed in special cases where the death occurred aboard a ship, and that the regular practice should have occurred in this case—the body buried in the ground with the head pointing to Islam's holy city of Mecca.\n\nA stated advantage of a burial at sea is that the site is not readily identified or accessed, thus preventing it from becoming a focus of attention or \"terrorist shrine\". \"The Guardian\" questioned whether bin Laden's grave would have become a shrine, as this is strongly discouraged in Wahhabism. Addressing the same concern, Egyptian Islamic analyst and lawyer Montasser el-Zayat said that if the Americans wished to avoid making a shrine to bin Laden, an unmarked grave on land would have accomplished the same goal.\n\n\"The Guardian\" also quoted a U.S. official explaining the anticipated difficulty of finding a country that would accept the burial of bin Laden in its soil. A professor of Islamic Law at the University of Jordan stated burying at sea was permitted if there was nobody to receive the body and provide a Muslim burial, and that \"it's neither true nor correct to claim that there was nobody in the Muslim world ready to receive bin Laden's body\". On a similar note, Mohammed al-Qubaisi, Dubai's grand mufti, stated: \"They can say they buried him at sea, but they cannot say they did it according to Islam. If the family does not want him, it's really simple in Islam: you dig up a grave anywhere, even on a remote island, you say the prayers and that's it. Sea burials are permissible for Muslims in extraordinary circumstances. This is not one of them.\" Khalid Latif, an imam who serves as a chaplain and the director of the Islamic Center of New York University, argued that the sea burial was respectful.\n\nLeor Halevi, a professor at Vanderbilt University and the author of \"Muhammad's Grave: Death Rites and the Making of Islamic Society\", explained that Islamic law does not prescribe ordinary funerals for those killed in battle, and pointed to controversy within the Muslim world over whether bin Laden was, as a \"mass murderer of Muslims\", entitled to the same respect as mainstream Muslims. At the same time, he suggested that the burial could have been handled with more cultural sensitivity.\n\nOmar bin Laden, son of Osama bin Laden, published a complaint on May 10, 2011, that the burial at sea deprived the family of a proper burial.\n\nAfter bin Laden's death, it was reported he had left a will written a short time after the September 11 attacks in which he urged his children not to join al-Qaeda and not to continue the Jihad.\n\nCNN cited a senior U.S. official as saying three sets of photographs of bin Laden's body exist: Photos taken at an aircraft hangar in Afghanistan, described as the most recognizable and gruesome; photos taken from the burial at sea on the USS \"Carl Vinson\" before a shroud was placed around his body; and photos from the raid itself, which include shots of the interior of the compound as well as three of the others who died in the raid.\n\nA source told ABC News that the photos taken by the military servicemen on the scene depict the physical damage done by a high-caliber bullet. \"CBS Evening News\" reported that the photo shows that the bullet which hit above bin Laden's left eye blew out his left eyeball and blew away a large portion of his frontal skull, exposing his brain. CNN stated that the pictures from the Afghanistan hangar depict \"a massive open head wound across both eyes. It's very bloody and gory.\" U.S. Senator Jim Inhofe, who viewed the photos, stated that the photos taken of the body on the \"Carl Vinson\", which showed bin Laden's face after much of the blood and material had been washed away, should be released to the public.\n\nA debate on whether the military photos should be released to the public took place. Those supporting the release argued that the photos should be considered public records, that they are necessary to complete the journalistic record, and that they would prove bin Laden's death and therefore prevent conspiracy theories. Those in opposition expressed concern that the photos would inflame anti-American sentiment in the Middle East.\n\nObama decided not to release the photos. In an interview aired on May 4 on \"60 Minutes\", he said: \"We don't trot out this stuff as trophies. We don't need to spike the football.\" Obama said that he was concerned with ensuring that \"very graphic photos of somebody who was shot in the head are not floating around as an incitement to additional violence, or as a propaganda tool. That's not who we are.\" Among Republican members of Congress, Senator Lindsey Graham criticized the decision and stated that he wanted to see the photos released, while Senator John McCain and Representative Mike Rogers, the chair of the House Intelligence Committee, supported the decision.\n\nOn May 11, selected members of Congress (the congressional leadership and those who serve on the House and Senate intelligence, homeland security, judiciary, foreign relations, and armed forces committees) were shown 15 bin Laden photos. In an interview with Eliot Spitzer, Senator Jim Inhofe said that three of the photos were of bin Laden alive for identification reference. Three other photos were of the burial-at-sea ceremony.\n\nThe group Judicial Watch filed a Freedom of Information Act request to obtain access to the photos in May 2011, soon after the raid. On May 9, the Department of Defense declined to process Judicial Watch's FOIA request, prompting Judicial Watch to file a federal lawsuit. In 2012, Judge James E. Boasberg of the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia issued a ruling denying release of the photographs. In May 2013, a three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit consisting of Chief Judge Merrick Garland, Senior Judge Harry T. Edwards, and Judge Judith Rogers affirmed the ruling, holding that 52 post-mortem images were properly classified as \"top secret\" and exempt from disclosure. Judicial Watch filed a petition for a writ of certiorari in August 2013, seeking U.S. Supreme Court review, but in January 2014 the Supreme Court declined to hear the case.\n\nThe Associated Press filed a FOIA request for photographs and videos taken during the Abbottabad raid less than one day after bin Laden was killed. The AP also requested \"contingency plans for bin Laden's capture, reports on the performance of equipment during the mission and copies of DNA tests\" confirming bin Laden's identity. The Defense Department rejected the AP's request for expedited processing, a legal provision to shorten the amount of time to process FOIA requests. The Defense Department rejected the request, and the AP administratively appealed.\n\nA book published in November 2011, \"Seal Target Geronimo\", by Chuck Pfarrer, a former SEAL, contradicted the account as given by U.S. government sources. According to Pfarrer, neither helicopter crashed at the beginning of the raid. Instead, the SEALs jumped onto the roof from the hovering Razor 1 helicopter and entered a third-floor hallway from the roof terrace. Osama's third wife, Khairah, was in the hallway, headed towards the SEALs. She was blinded by a strobe light and pushed to the floor as the SEALs went past her. Osama bin Laden stuck his head out of a bedroom door, saw the SEALs, and slammed the door closed. At the same time, Osama's son Khalid bin Laden ran up the stairs to the third floor and was killed with two shots.\n\nTwo SEALs broke through the bedroom door. Bin Laden's wife Amal was on the edge of the bed shouting in Arabic at the SEALs, and Osama bin Laden dived across the bed, shoving Amal at the same time, for an AKS-74U kept by the headboard. The SEALs fired four shots at bin Laden; the first missed, the second grazed Amal in the calf also missing bin Laden, and the final two hit bin Laden in the chest and head, killing him instantly. In Pfarrer's account, the total time elapsed from jumping on the roof to Osama bin Laden's death was between 30 and 90 seconds.\n\nAround the same time, snipers in the hovering Razor 2 helicopter shot and killed Abu Ahmed al-Kuwaiti when he came to the door of the guest house firing an AK-47. One SEAL sniper fired two shots at al-Kuwaiti and the other fired two three-round bursts. Two of the snipers' bullets went through al-Kuwaiti and killed his wife who was standing behind him. The Razor 2 team cleared the guest house and then breached their way into the main house with explosives. As the Razor 2 team entered the main house, al-Qaeda courier Arshad Khan pointed his AK-47 gun and was killed with two shots. The SEAL team fired a total of 16 shots, killing Osama bin Laden, Khalid bin Laden, Abu Ahmed al-Kuwaiti and al-Kuwaiti's wife, Arshad Khan, and wounding Osama bin Laden's wife Amal al-Sadah.\n\nTwenty minutes into the operation, Razor 1 took off from the roof of the main house to reposition to a landing spot outside the compound. As Razor 1 was crossing over the courtyard, both \"green unit\" flight deck control systems went off line. The helicopter settled slowly, bounced off the ground, and then broke apart as it hit the ground a second time. Both failed green units were removed for later examination.\n\nMedia accounts had reported that the plan had been to fast rope to the inner courtyard and to clear the main house from the ground floor up. The helicopter crashed in the outer courtyard with the SEAL team still on board. The SEAL team exited and needed to breach two walls and then into the house. As a result, Osama bin Laden was killed several minutes into the operation. Pfarrer's account differs in that he wrote that a SEAL team was inserted onto the roof of the main house, that Osama bin Laden was killed seconds into the operation, and that the main house was cleared from the top down.\n\nThe Pentagon disputed Pfarrer's account of the raid, calling it \"incorrect\". The U.S. Special Operations Command also disputed Pfarrer's account, saying, \"It's just not true. It's not how it happened.\"\n\nMatt Bissonnette, a SEAL who participated in the raid, wrote an account of the mission in the book \"No Easy Day\" (2012), which significantly contradicts Pfarrer's account. Bissonnette wrote that the helicopter approach and landing matched the official version. According to Bissonnette, when bin Laden peered out at the Americans advancing on his third-floor room, the SEAL who fired upon him hit him on the right side of the head. Bin Laden stumbled into his bedroom, where the SEALs found him crumpled and twitching on the floor in a pool of body matter, with two women crying over his body. The other SEALs allegedly grabbed the women, moved them away, and shot several rounds into bin Laden's chest until he was motionless. According to Bissonnette, the weapons in the room—an AK-47 rifle and a Makarov pistol—were unloaded.\n\nUnlike the official account, Bissonnette's version alleges that bin Laden's wife Mariam was uninjured in the raid. In addition, Bissonnette states that the report of bin Laden's daughter Safia having splintered wood striking her foot is false, as he explains that it was rather his wife Amal who was injured by such fragments.\n\nThe author also asserted that one SEAL sat on bin Laden's chest in a cramped helicopter as his body was flown back to Afghanistan.\n\nBissonnette stated that a search of bin Laden's room after his death uncovered a bottle of Just for Men hair dye.\n\nIn February 2013, \"Esquire\" conducted an interview with an anonymous individual called \"the shooter\" who stated that bin Laden placed one of his wives between himself and the commandos, pushing her towards them. \"Shooter\" then claimed bin Laden stood up and had a gun \"within reach\" and it was only then that he fired two shots into bin Laden's forehead, killing him. Another member of SEAL Team Six said the story as presented in \"Esquire\" was false and \"complete BS\". Then, in November 2014, former SEAL Robert O'Neill disclosed his identity as the shooter in a series of interviews with the \"Washington Post\".\n\nIn 2011 American intelligence analyst Raelynn Hillhouse wrote that according to U.S. intelligence sources, the U.S. had been tipped-off to bin Laden's location by an unnamed Pakistani intelligence insider collecting the $25 million reward. According to the sources, Pakistan purposely stood-down its armed forces to allow the U.S. raid, and the original plan was to kill – not capture – bin Laden. Hillhouse's sources stated that the Pakistanis had been keeping bin Laden under house arrest near their military headquarters in Abbottabad with money provided by the Saudis. According to \"The Telegraph\", Hillhouse's account might explain why U.S. forces encountered no resistance on their way to and in Abbottabad, and why some residents in Abbottabad were warned to stay in their houses the day before the raid.\n\nHillhouse later also stated that bin Laden's body had been thrown-out of a helicopter over the Hindu Kush. Hillhouse's account was picked-up and published in \"The Daily Telegraph\", the \"National Post\", \"The Vancouver Sun\", \"The Calgary Herald\", the \"Windsor Star\", \"The Daily Mail\" and the \"New Zealand Herald\".\n\nIn May 2015, a detailed article in the London Review of Books by journalist Seymour Hersh said that the Pakistani Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) had kept bin Laden under house arrest at Abbottabad since 2006, and that Pakistani Army chief Pervez Kayani and ISI director Ahmad Shuja Pasha aided the U.S. mission to kill, not capture bin Laden. According to Hersh, Pakistani officials were always aware of bin Laden's location and were guarding the compound with their own soldiers. Pakistan decided to give up bin Laden's location to the U.S. because American aid was declining. Pakistani officials were aware of the raid, and assisted the U.S. in carrying it out. According to Hersh, bin Laden was basically an invalid.\n\nHersh's U.S. and Pakistani intelligence sources stated that the U.S. had learned of bin Laden's location through a Pakistani walk-in seeking the $25 million reward, and not through tracking a courier. NBC News and Agence France-Presse subsequently reported that their sources indicated a walk-in was an extremely valuable asset, though the sources disputed that the walk-in knew the location of bin Laden. Pakistan-based journalist Amir Mir in the \"News International\" reported the walk-in's identity to be Usman Khalid, though that allegation was denied by Khalid's family. The White House denied Hersh's report.\n\nAlthough similar in claims, both Hillhouse and Hersh's accounts of the bin Laden death appeared to be based on different sources which \"The Intercept\" concluded might corroborate the claims if their identities were known. After the Hersh story broke, NBC News also independently reported that a Pakistani intelligence officer was the source of the original bin Laden location report, and not the courier.\n\nThe reports of bin Laden's death on May 2, 2011, are not universally accepted despite unreleased DNA testing confirming his identity, bin Laden's twelve-year-old daughter witnessing his death, and a May 6, 2011, al-Qaeda statement confirming his death. The swift burial of bin Laden's body at sea, the speed of the DNA results, and the decision not to release pictures of the dead body have led to the rise of conspiracy theories that bin Laden had not died in the raid. Some blogs suggested that the U.S. government feigned the raid, and some forums hosted debates over the alleged hoax.\n\nPakistan came under intense international scrutiny after the raid. The Pakistani government denied that it had sheltered bin Laden, and said it had shared information with the CIA and other intelligence agencies about the compound since 2009.\n\nCarlotta Gall, in her 2014 book \"\", accuses the ISI, Pakistan's clandestine intelligence service, of hiding and protecting Osama bin Laden and his family after the September 11, 2001 attacks. She claims that she learned from a Pakistani official (with whom she later clarified that she did not speak, the information coming through a friend) that a senior U.S. official had told him that the United States had direct evidence that Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) chief, Lt. Gen. Ahmad Shuja Pasha, knew of bin Laden's presence in Abbottabad, but ISI, Pasha and officials in Washington all deny this.\n\nAfter the raid, there was an unconfirmed report that Pakistan allowed Chinese military officials to examine the wreckage of the crashed helicopter.\n\nAbbottabad attracted refugees from fighting in the tribal areas and Swat Valley, as well as Afghanistan. \"People don't really care now to ask who's there\", said Gohar Ayub Khan, a former foreign minister and resident of the city. \"That's one of the reasons why, possibly, he came in there.\"\n\nThe city was home to at least one al-Qaeda leader before bin Laden. Operational chief Abu Faraj al-Libi reportedly moved his family to Abbottabad in mid-2003. Pakistan Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) raided the house in December 2003 but did not find him. This account was contradicted by American officials who said that satellite photos show that in 2004 the site was an empty field. A courier told interrogators that al-Libi used three houses in Abbottabad. Pakistani officials say they informed their American counterparts at the time that the city could be a hiding place for al-Qaeda leaders. In 2009 officials began providing the U.S. with intelligence about bin Laden's compound without knowing who lived there.\n\nOn January 25, 2011, ISI arrested Umar Patek, an Indonesian wanted in connection with the 2002 Bali nightclub bombings, while he was staying with a family in Abbottabad. Tahir Shehzad, a clerk at the post office, was arrested on suspicion of facilitating travel for al-Qaeda militants.\n\nNumerous allegations were made that the government of Pakistan had shielded bin Laden. Critics cited the proximity of bin Laden's heavily fortified compound to the Pakistan Military Academy, that the U.S. chose to not notify Pakistani authorities before the operation, and the double standards of Pakistan regarding the perpetrators of the 2008 Mumbai attacks. U.S. government files, leaked by WikiLeaks, disclosed that American diplomats had been told that Pakistani security services were tipping off bin Laden every time U.S. forces approached. Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), also helped smuggle al-Qaeda militants into Afghanistan to fight NATO troops. According to the leaked files, in December 2009, the government of Tajikistan had also told U.S. officials that many in Pakistan were aware of bin Laden's whereabouts.\n\nCIA chief Leon Panetta said the CIA had ruled out involving Pakistan in the operation, because it feared that \"any effort to work with the Pakistanis could jeopardize the mission. They might alert the targets.\" Secretary of State Hillary Clinton stated that \"cooperation with Pakistan helped lead us to bin Laden and the compound in which he was hiding\". Obama echoed her sentiments. John O. Brennan, Obama's chief counterterrorism advisor, said that it was inconceivable that bin Laden did not have support from within Pakistan. He said: \"People have been referring to this as hiding in plain sight. We are looking at how he was able to hide out there for so long.\"\n\nThe Indian Minister for Home Affairs, P. Chidambaram, said that bin Laden hiding \"deep inside\" Pakistan was a matter of grave concern for India, and showed that \"many of the perpetrators of the Mumbai terror attacks, including the controllers and the handlers of the terrorists who actually carried out the attack, continue to be sheltered in Pakistan\". He called on Pakistan to arrest them.\n\nPakistani-born British MP Khalid Mahmood stated that he was \"flabbergasted and shocked\" after he learned that bin Laden was living in a city with thousands of Pakistani troops, reviving questions about alleged links between al-Qaeda and elements in Pakistan's security forces.\n\nOn August 7, 2011, Raelynn Hillhouse, an American spy novelist and security analyst, posted \"The Spy Who Billed Me\" on her national security blog, suggesting that Pakistan's ISI had sheltered bin Laden in return for a $25 million bounty; ISI and government officials have denied her allegations.\n\nFormer Pakistani Army Chief, General Ziauddin Butt has said that, according to his knowledge, Osama bin Laden was kept in an Intelligence Bureau safe house in Abbottabad by the then Director-General of the Intelligence Bureau of Pakistan (2004–2008), Brigadier Ijaz Shah. This had occurred with the \"full knowledge\" of former army chief General Pervez Musharraf and possibly that of current Chief of Army Staff (COAS) General Ashfaq Parvez Kayani. Emails from the private American security firm, Stratfor, published by WikiLeaks on February 27, 2012, indicate that up to 12 officials in Pakistan's ISI knew of Osama bin Laden's Abbottabad safe house. Stratfor had been given access to the papers collected by American forces from bin Laden's Abbottabad house. The emails reveal that these Pakistani officers included \"Mid to senior level ISI and Pak Mil with one retired Pak Mil General\". In 2014, British journalist Carlotta Gall revealed that she had been told by an undisclosed ISI source that the ISI \"ran a special desk assigned to handle bin Laden\". The desk was \"led by an officer who made his own decisions and did not report to a superior [...] but the top military bosses knew about it, I was told\".\n\nAccording to a Pakistani intelligence official, raw phone-tap data had been transferred to the U.S. without being analyzed by Pakistan. While the U.S. \"was concentrating on this\" information since September 2010, information regarding bin Laden and the compound's inhabitants had \"slipped from\" Pakistan's \"radar\" over the months. Bin Laden left \"an invisible footprint\" and he had not been contacting other militant networks. It was noted that much focus had been placed on a courier entering and leaving the compound. The transfer of intelligence to the U.S. was a regular occurrence according to the official, who also stated regarding the raid that \"I think they came in undetected and went out the same day\", and Pakistan did not believe that U.S. personnel were present in the area before the special operation occurred.\n\nAccording to the Pakistani high commissioner to the United Kingdom, Wajid Shamsul Hasan, Pakistan had prior knowledge that an operation would happen. Pakistan was \"in the know of certain things\" and \"what happened, happened with our consent. Americans got to know him—where he was first—and that's why they struck it and struck it precisely.\" Husain Haqqani, Pakistani ambassador to the U.S., had said that Pakistan would have pursued bin Laden had the intelligence of his location existed with them and Pakistan was \"very glad that our American partners did. They had superior intelligence, superior technology, and we are grateful to them.\"\n\nAnother Pakistani official stated that Pakistan \"assisted only in terms of authorization of the helicopter flights in our airspace\" and the operation was conducted by the United States. He also said that \"in any event, we did not want anything to do with such an operation in case something went wrong.\"\n\nIn June the ISI arrested the owner of a safe house rented to the CIA to observe Osama bin Laden's compound and five CIA informants.\n\nMark Kelton, then the CIA station chief for Pakistan, alleges that he was poisoned by the ISI in retaliation for the raid, forcing him to leave the country.\n\nSeveral officials who were present in the Situation Room, including the president, told reporters that the code name for bin Laden was \"Geronimo\". They had watched Leon Panetta, speaking from CIA headquarters, while he narrated the action in Abbottabad. Panetta said, \"We have a visual on Geronimo\", and later, \"Geronimo EKIA\"—enemy killed in action. The words of the commander on the ground were, \"For God and country, Geronimo, Geronimo, Geronimo.\" Officials subsequently explained that each step of the mission was labelled alphabetically in an \"Execution Checklist\", which is used to ensure all participants in a large operation are kept synchronized with a minimum of radio traffic. \"Geronimo\" indicated the raiders had reached step \"G\", the capture or killing of bin Laden. Osama bin Laden was identified as \"Jackpot\", the general code name for the target of an operation. ABC News reported that otherwise his regular code name was \"Cakebread\". \"The New Yorker\" reported that bin Laden's codename was \"Crankshaft\".\n\nMany Native Americans were offended that Geronimo, the renowned 19th-century Apache leader, was irrevocably linked with bin Laden. The chairman of the Fort Sill Apache Tribe, the successor to Geronimo's tribe, wrote a letter to Obama asking him to \"right this wrong.\" The president of the Navajo Nation requested that the U.S. government change the code name retroactively. Officials from the National Congress of American Indians said the focus should be on honoring the disproportionately high number of Native Americans who serve in the military, and they had been assured that \"Geronimo\" was not a code name for bin Laden. The U.S. Senate Committee on Indian Affairs heard testimony on the issue from tribal leaders, while the Defense Department had no comment except to say that no disrespect was intended.\n\nAfter the death of bin Laden, some officials from the Bush administration, such as former Bush Office of Legal Counsel attorney John Yoo and former attorney general Michael Mukasey, wrote op-eds stating that the enhanced interrogation techniques they authorized (since legally clarified as torture) yielded the intelligence that later led to locating bin Laden's hideout. Mukasey said that the waterboarding of Khalid Sheikh Mohammed caused him to reveal the nickname of bin Laden's courier.\n\nU.S. officials and legislators, including Republican John McCain and Democrat Dianne Feinstein, chairwoman of the U.S. Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, countered that those statements were \"false\". They noted that a report by CIA Director Leon Panetta stated that the first mention of the courier's nickname did not come from Mohammed, but rather from another government's interrogation of a suspect whom they said they \"believe was not tortured.\"\n\nMcCain called on Mukasey to retract his statements.\n\nPanetta had written a letter to McCain on the issue, saying: \"Some of the detainees who provided useful information about the facilitator/courier's role had been subjected to enhanced interrogation techniques. Whether those techniques were the 'only timely and effective way' to obtain such information is a matter of debate and cannot be established definitively.\" Although some information may have been obtained from detainees who were subjected to torture, Panetta wrote to McCain that:\n\nWe first learned about the facilitator/courier's nom de guerre from a detainee not in CIA custody in 2002. It is also important to note that some detainees who were subjected to enhanced interrogation techniques attempted to provide false or misleading information about the facilitator/courier. These attempts to falsify the facilitator/courier's role were alerting. In the end, no detainee in CIA custody revealed the facilitator/courier's full true name or specific whereabouts. This information was discovered through other intelligence means.\n\nIn addition, other U.S. officials state that shortly after the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, detainees in CIA secret prisons told interrogators about the courier's pseudonym \"al-Kuwaiti\" and that when Khalid Sheikh Mohammed was later captured, he only \"confirmed\" the courier's pseudonym. After Abu Faraj al-Libbi was captured, he provided false or misleading information: he denied that he knew al-Kuwaiti and he made up another name instead. Also, a group of interrogators asserted that the courier's nickname was not divulged \"during torture, but rather several months later, when [detainees] were questioned by interrogators who did not use abusive techniques.\"\n\nEvidence seized from the compound is said to include ten cell phones, five to ten computers, twelve hard drives, at least 100 computer disks (including thumb drives and DVDs), handwritten notes, documents, weapons and \"an assortment of personal items\". It was described by a senior Pentagon intelligence official as \"the single largest collection of senior terrorist materials ever.\" On November 1, 2017 the CIA released to the public approximately 470,000 files and a copy of bin Laden's diary.\n\nIntelligence analysts also studied call detail records from two phone numbers that were found to be sewn into bin Laden's clothing. They helped over the course of several months to apprehend several al-Qaeda members in several countries and to kill several of bin Laden's closest associates by CIA drone attacks in Pakistan.\n\nThe material gathered at the compound was stored at the FBI Laboratory in Quantico, Virginia, where forensic experts analyzed fingerprints, DNA and other trace evidence left on the material. Copies of the material were provided to other agencies; officials want to preserve a chain of custody in case any of the information is needed as evidence in a future trial.\n\nA special CIA team has been given the responsibility of combing through the digital material and documents removed from the bin Laden compound. The CIA team is working in collaboration with other U.S. government agencies \"to triage, catalog and analyze this intelligence.\"\n\nBin Laden's youngest wife told Pakistani investigators that the family lived in the feudal village of Chak Shah Muhammad, in the nearby district of Haripur, for two and a half years before moving to Abbottabad in late 2005.\n\nThe material seized from the compound contained al-Qaeda's strategy for Afghanistan after America's withdrawal from the country in 2014, as well as thousands of electronic memos and missives that captured conversations between bin Laden and his deputies around the world. It showed that bin Laden stayed in touch with al-Qaeda's established affiliates and sought new alliances with groups such as Boko Haram from Nigeria. According to the material, he sought to reassert control over factions of loosely affiliated jihadists from Yemen to Somalia, as well as independent actors whom he believed had sullied al-Qaeda's reputation and muddied its central message. Bin Laden was worried at times about his personal security and was annoyed that his organization had not utilized the Arab Spring to improve its image. He acted, according to the \"Washington Post\", on the one hand as \"chief executive fully engaged in the group's myriad crises, grappling with financial problems, recruitment, rebellious field managers and sudden staff vacancies resulting from the unrelenting U.S. drone campaign\", and on the other hand as \"a hands-on manager who participated in the terrorist group's operational planning and strategic thinking while also giving orders and advice to field operatives scattered worldwide.\" The material also described Osama bin Laden's relation with Ayman al-Zawahiri and Atiyah Abd al-Rahman.\n\nSeventeen documents seized during the Abbottabad raid, consisting of electronic letters or draft letters dating from September 2006 to April 2011, were released by the Combating Terrorism Center at West Point one year and one day after bin Laden's death. and made available at the \"Washington Post\" homepage. The documents covered subjects such as the news media in America, affiliate organization, targets, America, security, and the Arab Spring. In the documents, bin Laden stated that al-Qaeda's strength was limited and therefore suggested that the best way to attack the U.S., which he compared to a tree, \"is to concentrate on sawing the trunk\". He refused the promotion of Anwar al-Awlaki when this was requested by Nasir al-Wuhayshi, leader of al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula. \"We here become reassured of the people when they go to the line and get examined there\", bin Laden said. He told al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula to expand operations in the U.S. in the wake of the 2009 Christmas Day bomb plot by writing \"We need to extend and develop our operations in America and not keep it limited to blowing up airplanes.\"\n\nThe seized material shed light on al-Qaeda's relationship with Iran, which detained jihadis and their relatives in the wake of the U.S. invasion of Afghanistan, including members of bin Laden's family. Al-Qaeda's relationship with Iran was, according to the Combating Terrorism Center, an \"unpleasant byproduct of necessity, fueled by mutual distrust and antagonism.\" An explicit reference to any institutional support from Pakistan for al-Qaeda wasn't mentioned in the documents; instead, bin Laden instructed his family members how to avoid detection so that members of Pakistani intelligence couldn't track them to find him. According to the seized material, former commander of the international forces in Afghanistan David Petraeus and US President Barack Obama should be assassinated during any of their visits to Pakistan and Afghanistan, if there was an opportunity to do so. Bin Laden opined that U.S. Vice President Joe Biden should not be a target because \"Biden is totally unprepared for that post [of president], which will lead the US into a crisis.\" Bin Laden was also against one-person suicide attacks and was of the opinion that at least two persons should undertake these attacks instead. He planned to reform in a way so that al-Qaeda's central leadership would have a greater say in the naming of the al-Qaeda branch leaders and their deputies. He expressed his opinion that killing Muslims has weakened his organization and not helped al-Qaeda, writing that it \"cost the mujahedeen no small amount of sympathy among Muslims. The enemy has exploited the mistakes of the mujahedeen to mar their image among the masses.\"\n\nThe United States Department of Justice released a further eleven documents in March 2015. The documents were part of the trial against Abid Naseer, who was convicted of plotting to bomb a Manchester shopping mall in 2009. They included letters to and from Osama bin Laden in the year before his death, and showed the extent of the damage the CIA drone program had done to Al-Qaeda.\n\nIn addition to information and data recovered that were of intelligence interest, the documents and computer items also contained personal files, including family correspondence and a large stash of pornography. US officials have refused to characterize the type of pornography found other than to say that it was \"modern\" in nature.\n\nThe tail section of the secret helicopter survived demolition and lay just outside the compound wall. Pakistani security forces put up a cloth barrier at first light to hide the wreckage. Later, a tractor hauled it away hidden under a tarp. Journalists obtained photographs that revealed the previously undisclosed stealth technology. \"Aviation Week\" said the helicopter appeared to be a significantly modified MH-60 Black Hawk. Serial numbers found at the scene were consistent with an MH-60 built in 2009. Its performance during the operation confirmed that a stealth helicopter could evade detection in a militarily sensitive, densely populated area. Photos showed that the Black Hawk's tail had stealth-configured shapes on the boom and the fairings, swept stabilizers and a \"hubcap\" over the noise-reducing five- or six-blade tail rotor. It appeared to have a silver-loaded infrared suppression finish similar to some V-22 Ospreys.\n\nThe U.S. requested return of the wreckage and the Chinese government also expressed interest, according to Pakistani officials. Pakistan had custody of the wreckage for over two weeks before its return was secured by U.S. Senator John Kerry. Experts disagreed as to how much information could have been gleaned from the tail fragment. Stealth technology was already operational on several fixed-wing aircraft and the cancelled RAH-66 Comanche helicopter; the modified Black Hawk was the first confirmed operational \"stealth helicopter\". It is likely that the most valuable information obtainable from the wreckage was the composition of the radar-absorbing paint used on the tail section. Local children were seen picking up pieces of the wreckage and selling them as souvenirs. In August 2011, Fox News reported that Pakistan had allowed Chinese scientists to examine the helicopter's tail section and were especially interested in its radar-absorbing paint. Pakistan and the PRC denied these claims.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56549299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56549299", "title": "Death of Silje Redergård", "text": "Death of Silje Redergård\n\nSilje Marie Redergård (26 June 1989 – 15 October 1994) was a Norwegian girl who was killed by two boys in the village of Rosten near Trondheim on 15 October 1994. The boys, aged five and six, beat, kicked, stoned and stripped Redergård naked, leaving her in the snow to die of hypothermia. The boys were directed to undergo psychological evaluation, as Norwegian law did not allow the punishment of persons under the age of 15. The names of the boys were not publicly released.\n\nThe case has been compared to the murder of James Bulger, which took place in the United Kingdom twenty months earlier.\n"}
{"id": "31348578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31348578", "title": "Doodle (website)", "text": "Doodle (website)\n\nDoodle is an online calendar tool for time management, and coordinating meetings. It is based in Zurich, Switzerland and has been operational since 2007. It has offices in Berlin, Tel Aviv, and Belgrade. \n\nUsers are asked to determine the best time and date to meet. The organizer then chooses the time that suits everyone and the meeting is booked in your calendar. Meeting coordinators (administrators) receive e-mail alerts for votes and comments. Registration is required to have this function. \n\nIn 2014 Swiss media giant Tamedia increased its share in Doodle to 100 percent. Doodle released its Android and iOS apps in 2014. They also passed the 20 million monthly user benchmark.\n\nDoodle acquired Meekan in 2016. Meekan is a chatbot developed in Israel. Meekan uses artificial intelligence and natural language processing to schedule meetings. Doodle has since begun to integrate this technology into their products.\n\nIn 2016, Doodle was used by over 180 million unique users in 175 different countries.\n\nDoodle interacts with various external calendar systems. Google Calendar, Yahoo Calendar, Microsoft Outlook and Apple iCal can be utilized with Doodle to track dates. Google Maps may also be used to share the location of the event.\n\nSimilar popular competing products, which may collectively be designated as \"date matchers\", include Dudle (Free Software maintained by the TU Dresden), ScheduleOnce, Tungle (which ceased 3 December 2012), TimeBridge (ceased), WhenIsGood, Framadate,<ref name=\"Framadate Open Source Date Finder from Famasoft / France\"></ref> Xoyondo, or LetsMeetOn.\n"}
{"id": "20090748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20090748", "title": "Edward the King (play)", "text": "Edward the King (play)\n\nEdward The King is a 2008 two-act play by American playwright David Brendan Hopes. The play is an adaptation of Christopher Marlowe's play \"Edward II\", which in turn is a dramatization of the real-life story of Edward II of England.\n\nBeset by the duties of his birth and dominated by a heroic father, Edward looks forward to a life of apparent conformity and desperate subterfuge, until he meets Piers Gaveston in a dirty alley. It is love and rebellion at first sight. From then on, Edward steers a perilous course between desire and safety, which does not entirely end even when he becomes king, and faces not only the usual enemies of unconventional love, but his queen and her lover as well. Edward the King neatly straddles the 14th and 21st centuries, which manage to appear almost equally violent and inhospitable to love.\n\n"}
{"id": "31036944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31036944", "title": "Elton John AIDS Foundation Academy Award Party", "text": "Elton John AIDS Foundation Academy Award Party\n\nThe Elton John AIDS Foundation Academy Award Party is one of the annual parties held in Los Angeles following the Academy Awards ceremony the same evening. The first party was held in February 1993 at Maple Drive Restaurant and raised $300,000. It had been produced by Patrick Lippert, an AIDS activist who died of the disease just months later. In recent years it has been held at the Pacific Design Center and was attended by 650 people in 2009. It is hosted by Elton John and the AIDS Foundation, and is one of the most high-profile parties in the Hollywood film industry, particularly for people of British origin working in Hollywood films or the entertainment industry. The annual party contributes to the foundation fund by its high priced ticket sales which are given by invitation only ($3500 or £2400 as of 2009) and a celebrity auction. The 2010 party raised over $8 million or £4 million.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33447898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33447898", "title": "Eurovision Song Contest winners discography", "text": "Eurovision Song Contest winners discography\n\nThe discography of the Eurovision Song Contest winners includes all the winning singles of the annual competition held since 1956. As of May 2018, 66 songs have won the competition, including four entries which were declared joint winners in 1969.\n\n"}
{"id": "2196550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2196550", "title": "Evening Primrose (musical)", "text": "Evening Primrose (musical)\n\nEvening Primrose is a musical with a book by James Goldman and lyrics and music by Stephen Sondheim. It is based on a John Collier short story published in the 1951 collection \"Fancies and Goodnights\".\n\nWritten originally for television, the musical focuses on a poet who takes refuge from the world by hiding out in a department store after closing. He meets a community of night people who live in the store and falls in love with a beautiful young girl named Ella. Bizarre complications arise when the leader of the group forbids their relationship.\n\nPoet Charles Snell takes refuge from the world by hiding out in a department store after closing (\"If You Can Find Me, I'm Here\"). Once there he finds a secret group who have lived in the store for years. The leader of the group, Mrs. Monday, permits Charles to stay after he convinces her that he is a poet.\n\nCharles meets and is smitten with a beautiful young girl, Ella Harkins, Mrs. Monday's maid. Ella, who is now 19, has lived in the store since she was separated from her mother at age six, falling asleep in the women's hat department. Ella is unhappy and wants to leave, but is afraid of the \"Dark Men\". Should someone try to return to the outside world and risk revealing the group's existence, the Dark Men take them away and another mannequin appears in the clothing department.\n\nCharles realizes Ella has not seen the sun for thirteen years, but she replies that she remembers (\"I Remember\"). Charles has fallen in love with Ella; as he plays cards with members of the group, he has a quiet duet with Ella (\"When\"). Ella finally decides to leave with Charles (\"Take Me To The World\"). Charles is initially reluctant to leave his now-comfortable life, but then understands that he loves Ella more than poetry. Mrs. Monday and the others hear their plans, and they call the Dark Men, as Ella and Charles try to escape.\n\nThe store opens the next morning with a couple on the sidewalk who resemble Ella and Charles from behind, but turn out to be strangers when the camera pans to their faces. They're looking at a window display in which Ella and Charles are now mannequins dressed as a bride and groom, with the night watchman acting as their minister.\n\nWritten specifically for the television anthology series \"ABC Stage 67\", it aired on November 16, 1966. It was directed by Paul Bogart, set design by John Ward, set decorated by Budd Gourmen, costume design by William McHone, and lighting design by Walter Urban. The cast starred Anthony Perkins as Charles Snell, Charmian Carr as Ella Harkins, Larry Gates as Roscoe Potts, Dorothy Stickney as Mrs. Monday, and Margaret Bannerman, Margaret Barker, Leonard Elliot, Mike Meola, Dorothy Sands, and Margaretta Warwick as store people. The one-hour program was taped on an early Sunday morning at the now-defunct Stern Brothers department store in Manhattan.\n\nThe \"Evening Primrose\" telecast was in color, but the original master tape has never been found. Black-and-white (B&W) versions are available for viewing at the Museum of Television & Radio branches in New York City and Beverly Hills. A newly discovered pristine B&W 16-millimeter copy was used for DVDs which were released commercially for the first time on October 26, 2010.\n\nThe first professional theatrical production was staged in London as part of the \"Lost Musicals\" series. It opened at the Lilian Baylis Studio on July 3, 2005 and closed on July 24. Directed by Ian Marshall Fisher, it starred Betsy Blair as Mrs. Monday, Michael Matus as Charles Snell, Jennifer Higham as Ella Harkins, James Vaughan as Store Doorman/Night Watchman, and Gary Raymond as Roscoe, with Sylvia Seymour, Martin Gaisford, Myra Sands, David O'Brien and Andrew Beavis in supporting roles.\n\nOn October 22, 2010, the St. George's Society in New York City had a one night only semi staged performance at the Gerald W. Lynch Theater at John Jay College of Criminal Justice. The show was directed and designed by Tony Walton, musical supervision and orchestration by Sean Patrick Flahaven, and musical director Mary-Mitchell Campbell, sound design by Bernard Fox. The cast had Carmen De Lavallade (Mrs. Billbee) --she also directed some choreography, Jessica Grové (Ella), Sean Palmer (Charles), Candice Bergen (Mrs. Monday), John Cunningham (Roscoe Potts), Sondra Lee (Augusta), and William Duell (Billy).\n\nThe DVD was commercially released for the first time on April 20, 2010, by E1 Entertainment and the Archive of American Television.\n\n\nAn official soundtrack recording was not released commercially until 2008, when Kritzerland, Inc. issued it in a limited release of 3,000 copies. Previously, the four vocal selections had been recorded by Mandy Patinkin and Bernadette Peters for his 1990 \"Dress Casual\" album. Patinkin sang \"If You Can Find Me, I'm Here,\" Peters sang \"I Remember\", and the other two were performed as duets. In 1997, Liz Callaway and Gary Beach recorded them for a Varèse Sarabande release entitled \"Sondheim at the Movies\". A studio recording with Neil Patrick Harris as Charles and Theresa McCarthy as Ella was released by Nonesuch Records in 2001. They recorded \"If You Can Find Me, I'm Here\", \"I Remember\", \"When?\", and \"Take Me to the World\".\n\n\"I Remember\" has been recorded by David Kernan on the recording of the musical revue \"Side by Side by Sondheim\", Sarah Brightman, Judy Collins, John Pizzarelli, Mark Murphy, Cleo Laine, Maureen McGovern, Betty Buckley, Julia Migenes, Dianne Reeves, Myrra Malmberg, Madeline Eastman, and Barbra Streisand. Dawn Upshaw included \"Take Me to the World\" on her 1994 musical theatre album \"I Wish It So\".\n\nBarbra Streisand recorded the song \"Take Me to The World\" with Antonio Banderas for her 2016 album \"\".\n\n"}
{"id": "11009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11009", "title": "February 22", "text": "February 22\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11359", "title": "February 4", "text": "February 4\n\nThis day marks the approximate midpoint of winter in the Northern Hemisphere and of summer in the Southern Hemisphere (starting the season at the December solstice).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6799237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6799237", "title": "Glamourcon", "text": "Glamourcon\n\nGlamourcon was a fan convention that took place twice a year, once in Chicago and once in Los Angeles, that centers upon glamour models and glamour photography, with its guests typically being \"Playboy\" Playmates, \"Penthouse\" Pets, \"Hustler\" Honeys, \"Perfect 10\" Models, soft core pornographic actresses and other pin-up models. A portmanteau of the phrase \"glamour convention\", it was founded by entrepreneur Robert Schulz.\n\n"}
{"id": "915375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=915375", "title": "Goodspeed Musicals", "text": "Goodspeed Musicals\n\nGoodspeed Musicals is a non-profit organization dedicated to the preservation and advancement of musical theater and the creation of new works, located in East Haddam, Connecticut. A distinctive feature of the view from the Connecticut River, the Goodspeed Opera House is the birthplace of some of the world's most famous musicals, including \"Annie\", \"Man of La Mancha\" and \"Shenandoah\".\n\nThe Opera House was originally built by a local merchant and banker, William Goodspeed. Construction began in 1876 and finished in 1877. Despite the name, it was not in fact an opera house, but rather a venue for presenting plays. Its first play, \"Charles II\", opened on October 24, 1877. After William Goodspeed's death, the opera house fell into disrepair, facing a series of less glamorous uses—from a militia base during World War I to a general store and a Department of Transportation storage facility.\n\nThe building is unique for a theater. The theater itself is actually located on the top two floors of the building making for interesting and sometimes difficult scenery and show load-ins. Scenery is loaded-in from the dock area up a vacant elevator shaft that is now outfitted with a winch system to haul the scenery up to the stage level. Much care has to be taken in order to get the scenery up the shaft without scratching or ruining the scenery. One story told around Goodspeed is that while loading in the scenery for Annie's original pre-Broadway run, a strong gust of wind took a large piece of scenery out of the hands of the loaders and blew it into the Connecticut River.\n\nGoodspeed Musicals was formed in 1959 by a group of concerned citizens after the state of Connecticut had condemned the building. The state agreed to sell the building to the group for one dollar, provided they acquire enough funding to restore and maintain it. The restoration project took nearly four years, and the Goodspeed Opera House was rededicated on June 8, 1963. The first performance in the new opera house was \"Oh, Lady! Lady!\" Under the direction of Michael P. Price since 1968, Goodspeed Musicals has sent 19 productions to Broadway. Goodspeed productions have won more than a dozen Tony Awards, while Goodspeed Musicals itself has won two special Tonys, one for outstanding contributions to American Musicals and the other for outstanding achievement by a regional theatre.\n\nIn 1984, Goodspeed Musicals added a second performance venue—the Norma Terris Theatre—in nearby Chester, Connecticut. While the main stage presents a mixture of revivals and new musicals as part of its 3 production season, The Norma Terris also presents three new musicals each season. Several original plays debuted there or at the opera house before going on to Broadway and winning Tony Awards.\n\nIn addition to the two theaters, Goodspeed Musicals pursues its mission through the Max Showalter Center for Education in Musical Theatre, which offers internships and new writers' residency programs, as well as the Scherer Library of Musical Theatre, which houses the largest musical theatre research facility in the United States. Goodspeed Musicals has also built state-of-the-art production facilities including scenery shops, costume shops and a large costume storage facility.\n\nCritic fellows from the Eugene O'Neill Theater Center in Waterford, CT travel to the Goodspeed each summer to practice reviewing full productions.\n\nTours of many of the Goodspeed facilities can be scheduled in advance for a small fee. Tickets to the opera house or theatre productions should be ordered in advance as most performances in the relatively small theater sell-out quickly.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31786454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31786454", "title": "Greek Orthodox Church of St. George (Piscataway, New Jersey)", "text": "Greek Orthodox Church of St. George (Piscataway, New Jersey)\n\nThe Greek Orthodox Church of St. George of Piscataway, New Jersey is the largest Greek congregation in New Jersey. In 2016 the congregation celebrated its 100th Anniversary as well as the 43rd anniversary of its Greek Festival. It's 44th Annual GReek festival takes place May 18 - 21, 2017. \n"}
{"id": "41267016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41267016", "title": "Hamdan ibn Hamdun", "text": "Hamdan ibn Hamdun\n\nHamdan ibn Hamdun ibn al-Harith al-Taghlibi () was a Taghlibi Arab chieftain in the Jazira, and the patriarch of the Hamdanid dynasty. Alongside other Arab chieftains of the area, he resisted the attempts at re-imposition of Abbasid control over the Jazira in the 880s, and joined the Kharijite Rebellion. He was finally defeated and captured by Caliph al-Mu'tadid in 895, but was later released as a reward for the distinguished services of his son Husayn to the Caliph.\n\nHis family belonged to the Banu Taghlib tribe, established in the Jazira since before the Muslim conquests. The tribe was particularly strong in the region of Mosul, and came to dominate the area during the decade-long Anarchy at Samarra (861–870), when the Taghlibi leaders took advantage of the collapse of the authority of the central Abbasid government to assert their autonomy. Hamdan himself appears for the first time in 868, fighting alongside other Taghlibis against the Kharijite Rebellion in the Jazira.\n\nIn 879, however, the Abbasid government, in an effort to restore its control, replaced the succession of Tahglibi chieftains as governors of Mosul by a Turkish commander, Ishaq ibn Kundajiq. This prompted the defection of the Taghlib chiefs, including Hamdan ibn Hamdun, to the Kharijite rebels. Hamdan became a prominent leader in the rebellion; thus he is mentioned—with the Kharijite sobriquet of \"al-Shari\"—among the Kharijite and Arab tribal leaders in the great victory won by Ibn Kundajiq in April/May 881, when the rebel army was routed and pursued to Nisibis and Amid.\nIn 892, a new Caliph, al-Mu'tadid, took the throne, determined to restore Abbasid control over the Jazira. In a series of campaigns, he achieved the submission of most local potentates, but Hamdan offered tenacious opposition. Holding the fortresses of Maridin and Ardamusht (near modern Cizre), and allied with the Kurdish tribes of the mountains north of the Jaziran plain, he held out until 895. In that year, the Caliph took first Mardin and then Ardamusht, which was yielded by Hamdan's son Husayn. Hamdan fled before the caliphal army, but after an \"epic chase\" (H. Kennedy), finally gave up and surrendered himself at Mosul and was thrown in prison.\n\nAs H. Kennedy comments, \"this surrender might have seemed the end of the family fortunes as it was for other local leaders in the area\", but Hamdan's son, Husayn managed to preserve the family's fortunes. Husayn entered the Caliph's service and was instrumental in ending the Kharijite Rebellion and capturing its leader, Harun al-Shari. He was rewarded by the grateful Mu'tadid with a pardon for his father and the right to raise and command his own corps of Taghlibi horse, which he led on several expeditions over the next few years, becoming one of the Caliphate's most prominent commanders. His influence enabled him to become, in Kennedy's description, the \"intermediary between government and the Arabs and Kurds of the Jazira\", thereby cementing the family's dominance in the area and laying the foundation for the rise of the Hamdanid dynasty to power under his two nephews, Nasir al-Dawla and Sayf al-Dawla.\n\n"}
{"id": "52185485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52185485", "title": "Hollywood Music in Media Awards", "text": "Hollywood Music in Media Awards\n\nThe Hollywood Music in Media Awards (HMMA) honors music in film, television, video games, commercials, and trailers. Nominations are determined by an advisory board and selection committee comprised by journalists, music executives, songwriters, and composers. Winners are determined by select members of the Society of Composers & Lyricists, the Academy of Television Arts, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences' music branch, the National Academy of Recording Arts, performing-rights organizations, film-music journalists, and music executives. The 2016 winners were announced on November 17.\n\n\nSource:\n\n\nSource:\n\nSource:\n\nSource:\n"}
{"id": "2511417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2511417", "title": "Immanentize the eschaton", "text": "Immanentize the eschaton\n\nIn political theory and theology, to immanentize the eschaton means trying to bring about the eschaton (the final, heaven-like stage of history) in the immanent world. In all these contexts it means \"trying to make that which belongs to the afterlife happen here and now (on Earth)\". Theologically the belief is akin to postmillennialism as reflected in the Social Gospel of the 1880–1930 era, as well as Protestant reform movements during the Second Great Awakening in the 1830s and 1840s such as abolitionism.\n\nModern usage of the phrase started with Eric Voegelin in \"The New Science of Politics\" in 1952. Conservative spokesman William F. Buckley popularized Voegelin's phrase as \"Don't immanentize the eschaton!\" Buckley's version became a political slogan of Young Americans for Freedom during the 1960s and 1970s.\n\nVoegelin identified a number of similarities between ancient Gnosticism and the beliefs held by a number of modern political theories, particularly Communism and Nazism. He identified the root of the Gnostic impulse as belief in a lack of concord within society as a result of an inherent disorder, or even evil, of the world. He described this as having two effects:\n\nOne of the more oft-quoted passages from Voegelin's work on Gnosticism is that \"The problem of an \"eidos\" in history, hence, arises only when a Christian transcendental fulfillment becomes immanentized. Such an immanentist hypostasis of the eschaton, however, is a theoretical fallacy.\"\n\nThe book \"Fire in the Minds of Men\" explores the idea further.\n\nThe Lutheran Confessions directly reject the idea of an immanentized eschaton, condemning the belief \"that before the resurrection of the dead the godly shall take possession of the kingdom of the world, the ungodly being everywhere suppressed.\"\n\nThe \"Catechism of the Catholic Church\" makes an oblique reference to the desire to \"Immanentize the Eschaton\" in article 676:\n\nThe Antichrist's deception already begins to take shape in the world every time the claim is made to realize within history that messianic hope which can only be realized beyond history through the eschatological judgment. The Church has rejected even modified forms of this falsification of the kingdom to come under the name of millenarianism, especially the \"intrinsically perverse\" political form of a secular messianism.\nAt the end of the 12th century, Joachim of Fiore theorized the coming of an age of earthly bliss right before the end of time. Although not a full immanentization, Joachim has opened the way to an anticipation of the eschaton in the course of time. His ideas have influenced the thoughts on an immanentized eschaton.\n\nIn contemporary terminology this process is sometimes described as \"hastening the eschaton\" or \"hastening the apocalypse. In this sense it refers to a phenomenon related to millenarianism and the specific Christian form millennialism which is based on a particular reading of the Christian Bible's Book of Revelation especially popular among evangelicals in the United States \nSome conservative critics sometimes use these terms as a pejorative reference to certain projects such as Nazism, socialism, and communism.\n\nThe phrase is cited in the Discordian text \"Principia Discordia\", first published in 1965, and appears fifteen times in Robert Anton Wilson and Robert Shea's 1975 \"The Illuminatus! Trilogy\", in the first of which the first line of the novel is, \"It was the year when they finally immanentized the Eschaton.\"\n\nIn Ken Macleod's 1997 science fiction novel \"The Stone Canal\", one of the chapters is called, \"Another crack at Immanentising the Eschaton.\" The phrase is also used in issue four of Warren Ellis' 2007 comic, \"Doktor Sleepless\". It appears to be the goal of the title character to bring about the end of the world, driven by disappointment over how the future of the past has transpired. Sleepless wants to end the world to keep it from getting worse. The phrase is quoted several times, and can be regarded as the driving force behind the comic.\n\nIt is quoted (on a banner) in Larry Niven and Jerry Pournelle's 2009 novel \"Escape from Hell\".\n\nIt was used in the lyrics of the two rave singles \"All You Need Is Love\" by The Justified Ancients of Mu Mu in 1987, and the Shamen's \"Destination Eschaton\" in 1995.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1892036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1892036", "title": "Jim LeRoy", "text": "Jim LeRoy\n\nJim LeRoy (April 5, 1961 – July 28, 2007) was an American aerobatics pilot. He died upon impact in a crash at the Dayton Air Show in Ohio.\n\nA former US Marine Corps Scout/Sniper, Jim LeRoy held a B.S. degree in Aeronautical/Aerospace engineering as well as an Airframe and Powerplant (A&P) license.\n\nInitially flying solo performances, he gained a reputation with his highly energetic aerobatic displays. In 2003, LeRoy joined a daring and successful airshow troupe, the X-team, who referred to themselves as the Masters of Disaster. Their performance generally consisted of three pilots flying a simultaneous, chaotic, interweaving aerobatic display through clouds of smoke generated by circling jet-powered trucks below. After two seasons of successful airshows, an accident occurred on July 10, 2005 during a routine performance when Jimmy Franklin and Bobby Younkin collided in mid-air. Jim LeRoy was not involved in the collision and landed safely.\n\nLeRoy was one of only eleven pilots ever to be awarded both the \"Art Scholl Showmanship Award\" (2002) and the \"Bill Barber Award for Showmanship\" (2003). He was also one of only a handful of full-time air show pilots in the world who actually made his living by performing for air show audiences.\n\nLeRoy also held the following pilot ratings: single-engine, multi-engine, airplane instructor, helicopter, helicopter instructor, instrument instructor and aerobatic competency evaluator.\n\nAround 2:15PM EST at the Vectren Dayton Air Show at Dayton International Airport outside Dayton, Ohio, LeRoy crashed his S2S Bulldog II, while in performance with the X-Team \"Codename: Mary's Lamb\" aerobatics team. Initial indications showed that he was performing a 1/2 Cuban 8 and snap rolls on the 45-degree down line, but recovered too low to the ground to pull out. He hit the runway at , although his vertical speed was only around ; the plane slid and burst into flames. LeRoy was pronounced dead in a military MEDEVAC helicopter while in transit to Miami Valley Hospital in Dayton, Ohio. The coroner's report states that LeRoy died on impact due to a fracture of his neck, but that he also was badly burned.\n\n"}
{"id": "15797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15797", "title": "June 14", "text": "June 14\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17832313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17832313", "title": "Kossuth Prize", "text": "Kossuth Prize\n\nThe Kossuth Prize () is a state-sponsored award in Hungary, named after the Hungarian politician and revolutionary Lajos Kossuth. The Prize was established in 1948 (on occasion of the centenary of the March 15th revolution, the day on which it is still handed over every year) by the Hungarian National Assembly, to acknowledge outstanding personal and group achievements in the fields of science, culture and the arts, as well as in the building of Socialism in general.\n\nIn 1950s the award was given to Gabor Bela Fodor for his contributions in the field of Chemistry as the prize was given to selected scientists. Since 1963, the domain was restricted to culture and the arts. Today, it is regarded as the most prestigious cultural award in Hungary, and is awarded by the President.\n\nNote: This is not a complete listing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56055419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56055419", "title": "List of ICW events", "text": "List of ICW events\n\nThis is a list of ICW events, detailing all professional wrestling cards promoted as specific events by professional wrestling company Insane Championship Wrestling. From being originally active in 2006, the promotion currently books most of its events in Glasgow with occasional events in Edinburgh. As the company grows, it has expanded to the rest of the UK, having held events in London and Newcastle with shows in Liverpool, Leeds and Birmingham booked in the future as part of a working relationship with O2 Academy venues. ICW runs shows in Glasgow's The Garage and Studio 24 in Edinburgh as well as ABC Glasgow. The promotion also announced the Barrowland Ballroom as the location for \"ICW: Fear & Loathing VII\" and in 2016 the SSE Hydro in Glasgow for Fear & Loathing IX, which is their biggest show to date.\n\n"}
{"id": "47879005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47879005", "title": "List of sporting events in the Greater Manila Area", "text": "List of sporting events in the Greater Manila Area\n\nThis is a list of international sporting events in the Greater Manila Area in the Philippines:\n\n"}
{"id": "37702275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37702275", "title": "Liu Hulan (opera)", "text": "Liu Hulan (opera)\n\nLiu Hulan (刘胡兰) is a 1954 Chinese-language western-style opera by Chen Zi. It is based on the death of a 14-year-old communist party girl Liu Hulan, who was elevated into a revolutionary martyr. Part of The original opera was composed in 1949, only 2 years after her death, and revised into a full-scale opera in 1954. Several other composers such as Ge Guangrui also contributed to Chen's opera. A similar opera based on another revolutionary martyr is \"Sister Jiang\".\n"}
{"id": "22318042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22318042", "title": "March 1989 geomagnetic storm", "text": "March 1989 geomagnetic storm\n\nA severe geomagnetic storm struck Earth on March 13, 1989. It occurred during solar cycle 22 and caused a nine-hour outage of Hydro-Québec's electricity transmission system.\n\nThe geomagnetic storm causing this event was itself the result of an ejection known as a coronal mass ejection on March 9, 1989. A few days before, on March 6, a very large X15-class solar flare also occurred.\nThree-and-a-half days later, at 2:44 am EST on March 13, a severe geomagnetic storm struck Earth. The storm began on Earth with extremely intense auroras at the poles. The aurora could be seen as far south as Texas and Florida. As this occurred near the end of the Cold War, an unknown number of people worried that a nuclear first strike might be in progress. Others incorrectly considered the intense auroras to be associated with the Space Shuttle mission STS-29, which had been launched on March 13 at 9:57:00 AM. The burst caused short-wave radio interference, including the disruption of radio signals from Radio Free Europe into Russia. It was initially believed that the signals had been jammed by the Soviet government.\n\nAs midnight came and went, a river of charged particles and electrons in the ionosphere flowed from west to east, inducing powerful electrical currents in the ground that surged into many natural nooks and crannies.\n\nSome satellites in polar orbits lost control for several hours. GOES weather satellite communications were interrupted, causing weather images to be lost. NASA's TDRS-1 communication satellite recorded over 250 anomalies caused by the increased particles flowing into its sensitive electronics. The Space Shuttle Discovery was having its own problems: a sensor on one of the tanks supplying hydrogen to a fuel cell was showing unusually high pressure readings on March 13. The problem went away after the solar storm subsided.\n\nAnecdotal evidence suggests that one of the UK's nuclear submarines noticed a variation in ELF signal strength around the same time. Because the MoD files are still classified, this is not yet possible to confirm or deny.\n\nThe variations in the earth's magnetic field also tripped circuit breakers on Hydro-Québec's power grid. The utility's very long transmission lines and the fact that most of Quebec sits on a large rock shield prevented current flowing through the earth, finding a less resistant path along the 735 kV power lines.\n\nThe James Bay network went offline in less than 90 seconds, giving Quebec its second massive blackout in 11 months. The power failure lasted nine hours and forced the company to implement various mitigation strategies, including raising the trip level, installing series compensation on ultra high voltage lines and upgrading various monitoring and operational procedures. Other utilities in North America and Northern Europe and elsewhere implemented programs to reduce the risks associated with geomagnetically induced currents.\n\nOne of the few publicly reported military operations impacted was the Australian Army component of the United Nations (UN) peacekeeping force which was deployed to Namibia at the time. The storm occurred just as the advance elements of the contingent arrived in Namibia, but the effects were believed to last for weeks afterwards. The Australian contribution to UNTAG was heavily reliant on HF radio communications which were severely impacted.\n\nIn August 1989, another storm caused a halt of all trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange.\n\nSince 1996, geomagnetic storms and solar flares have been monitored from the Solar and Heliospheric Observatory (SOHO) satellite, a joint project of NASA and the European Space Agency.\n\nBecause of serious concerns that utilities have failed to set protection standards and are unprepared for a severe solar storm such as the Carrington Event, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission has ordered the North American Electric Reliability Corporation to create standards that would require power grids to be somewhat protected from solar storms and equipment to be continuously tested for possible effects of solar storms. Similarly, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission has begun a phased rule-making, published in the Federal Register, to examine the sufficiency of cooling systems of stored spent fuel rods of nuclear power plants now considered vulnerable to long-term power outages from events such as space weather, high-altitude nuclear burst electromagnetic pulses or cyber attacks.\n\n"}
{"id": "436653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=436653", "title": "Marvin Hewitt", "text": "Marvin Hewitt\n\nMarvin Hewitt (born 1922) was an American impostor who became, among other things, a university physics professor.\n\nHewitt was a high school drop-out with no qualifications who wanted to become an academic. He always used names and identities of real-life people in his impostures. He later claimed that he had a \"compulsion to teach\".\n\nHewitt's first imposture began in 1945 when he selected a famous name from a list of university teachers and used it to apply for a position of an aerodynamic engineer. However, the name was too recognizable and he was soon exposed.\n\nThe next identity Hewitt adopted was that of Julius Ashkin, a physics professor. He applied and was accepted first into a pharmacological college in Philadelphia and the next year into teacher's college in Minnesota. When he began to gain academic fame, the real Ashkin wrote him to suggest that he stop.\n\nHewitt proceeded to adopt the persona of Georg Hewitt, former chief researcher of Radio Corporation of America. When he was found out, he switched to that of philosophy professor Clifford Berry.\n\nIn 1954, Hewitt was on his fifth teaching job as Dr. Kenneth Yates, an associate professor of physics at the University of New Hampshire. At that stage two other colleges had discovered that his credentials were false when they noticed that the real Kenneth Yates was currently working for an oil company. They had only removed him from the faculty and the university authorities had decided to let him leave quietly when the details leaked out.\n\nThe president of the university, Dr. Robert F. Chandler, had described Hewitt as good physicist with talent for teaching. Officially he was not fired for incompetence but because he had misrepresented his qualifications. He received support from previous and current colleagues who showered praises on him. The U.S. Atomic Energy Commission and the British Admiralty approached him.\n\nSince approximately that time, there have been no reports of any further exploits by Hewitt in the media.\n\n"}
{"id": "1246814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1246814", "title": "Music for the Royal Fireworks", "text": "Music for the Royal Fireworks\n\nThe Music for the Royal Fireworks (HWV 351) is a suite for wind instruments composed by George Frideric Handel in 1749 under contract of George II of Great Britain for the fireworks in London's Green Park on 27 April 1749. It was to celebrate the end of the War of the Austrian Succession and the signing of the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle (Aachen) in 1748.\n\nDuring the preparations Handel and the Duke of Montagu, the Master General of the Ordnance and the officer responsible for the Royal Fireworks, had an argument about adding violins. The duke made clear to Handel that King George had a preference for only martial instruments and drums, and hoped there would be \"no fiddles\". Handel omitted the string instruments against his will. Also against Handel's will, there was a full rehearsal of the music in Vauxhall Gardens and not in Green Park. On 21 April 1749 an audience, claimed to be over twelve thousand people, each paying two shillings and six pence (half a crown) rushed to get there, causing a three-hour traffic jam of carriages on London Bridge, the only vehicular route to the area south of the river.\n\nSix days later, on 27 April, the performing musicians were in a specially constructed building that had been designed by Servandoni, a theatre designer, who used four Italians to assist him. Andrea Casali and Andrea Soldi designed the decorations. The fireworks themselves were devised and controlled by Gaetano Ruggieri and Giuseppe Sarti, both from Bologna. Charles Frederick was the controller, captain Thomas Desaguliers was the chief fire master. The display was not as successful as the music itself: the weather was rainy causing many misfires and in the middle of the show the right pavilion caught fire. Also, a woman's clothes were set on alight by a stray rocket and other fireworks burned two soldiers and blinded a third. Yet another soldier had blown his hand off during an earlier rehearsal for the 101 cannons which were used during the event.\n\n\"Music for the Royal Fireworks\" opens with a French overture and includes a bourrée and two minuets.\n\nThe work is in five movements:\n\nA siciliana movement was popular in baroque music.\n\nIt was scored for a large wind band ensemble consisting of 24 oboes, 12 bassoons and a contrabassoon, nine natural trumpets, nine natural horns, three pairs of kettledrums, and side drums which were given only the direction to play \"ad libitum\"; no side drum parts were written by Handel. Handel was specific about the numbers of instruments to each written part. In the overture there are assigned three players to each of the three trumpet parts; the 24 oboes are divided 12, 8 and 4; and the 12 bassoons are divided 8 and 4. The side drums were instructed when to play in \"La Réjouissance\" and the second \"Menuet\", but very likely also played in the \"Ouverture\".\n\nHandel re-scored the suite for full orchestra for a performance on 27 May in the Foundling Hospital. Handel noted in the score that the violins were to play the oboe parts, the cellos and double basses the bassoon part, and the violas either a lower wind or bass part. The instruments from the original band instrumentation play all the movements in the revised orchestral edition except the \"Bourrée\" and the first \"Menuet\", which are played by the oboes, bassoons, and strings alone.\n\nThere are many recordings. Handel's \"Water Music\", although it was composed more than thirty years earlier, is often paired with the \"Music for the Royal Fireworks\" as both were written for outdoor performance. Together, these works constitute Handel's most famous music for what we would now consider the orchestra. Older recordings tend to use arrangements of Handel's score for the modern orchestra, for example, the arrangements by Hamilton Harty and Leopold Stokowski. More recent recordings tend to use more historically informed performance methods appropriate for baroque music and often use authentic instruments.\n\nThere are also arrangements for pipe organ, alone or with brass. In 1970, José Feliciano recorded for his \"Fireworks\" LP part of the work transcribed for classical guitar by himself.\n\nThis music was performed under the baton of Andrew Davis for the Golden Jubilee of Elizabeth II on 1 June 2002, at the Buckingham Palace gardens, complete with fireworks.\n\n"}
{"id": "21942149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21942149", "title": "National Career Fairs", "text": "National Career Fairs\n\nNational Career Fairs is a company founded in 2001 by Scott Lobenberg to produce job fairs in cities across the United States. The events are a place where job seekers meet face-to-face with employers, educational institutions, and professional résumé writers.\n\nNational Career Fairs has its headquarters in Henderson, Nevada, and is under the leadership of Scott Lobenberg, founder and president, and Diana Nicholson, CEO. The company was incorporated in 2001, and produced 12 job fairs its first year. The number of events increased to 275 job fairs in 76 cities in 2007, and increased to over 350 events in 2008. The company has 20 employees.\n\n"}
{"id": "16173854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16173854", "title": "Ohio Renaissance Festival", "text": "Ohio Renaissance Festival\n\nThe Ohio Renaissance Festival is an annual event that takes place on weekends from late August through October. This Renaissance festival is held at a permanent site located near Harveysburg in Warren County, Ohio. It was voted Best Festival in Warren County in 2011.\n\nThe Ohio Renaissance Festival first opened its gates in 1990 in between Harveysburg, Ohio and I-71. Over the 25 years the site has been opened, it has grown into a permanent village with over 100 shops and 12 outdoor stages. \nThe festival is set in the fictional 16th-century English village of \"Willy Nilly-on-the-Wash,\" during the reign of Elizabeth I. Sir Walter Raleigh, Sir Francis Drake, Sir John Hawkins and John Dee are a few historical figures that reside in Willy Nilly, along with some not so historical but very much entertaining residents. The festival features costumed performers on stages and in the streets, craft shops selling and demonstrating period themed handcrafted goods and artwork, renaissance themed food, and regularly scheduled comedy, music, and acrobatic shows. Featured shows include Theatre in the Ground, jousting with the Knights of Valour and Shane Adams (the host of Full Metal Jousting -an American reality television jousting themed show.) DaVinci Bros. Comedy Opera, Dirk and Guido: The Swordsmen! and the Kamikaze Fireflies (the duo that were featured on America's Got Talent).\n\nThe performing cast including the Queen and her entourage along with representatives from each festival shop make a parade circuit through the fairgrounds once a day.\n\n"}
{"id": "3481494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3481494", "title": "Orașul de Floci", "text": "Orașul de Floci\n\nOraşul de Floci, also \"Cetatea de Floci\" or \"Târgul de Floci\" is a lost city of Wallachia, now in Romania.\n\nThe city was located at the confluence of Ialomiţa River and the Danube, on the old riverbed of the Ialomiţa. The name meant \"The Fleece City\" in Romanian, as it was an important market town. The city is first mentioned in 1431 during the rule of Dan II of Wallachia, but probably existed as trading post in the previous century.\n\nIt was set on fire by Stephen III of Moldavia during the wars with Wallachia under the rule of Radu The Beautiful (who was an ally of the Ottoman Empire). The city recovered quickly, but it was once again destroyed by the Polish and Tatar troops of Simion Movilă.\n\nMichael the Brave, the famous Prince of Wallachia, was presumably born in this city\n\nThe city finally decayed due to the Russo-Turkish War, 1768-1774, when most inhabitants fled due to the fighting. In the place of the city was formed the village Piua-Petrii, which was destroyed, in turn, during the floods of early 20th century. Currently, the ruins of the city are located in the territory of the Giurgeni commune.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30254190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30254190", "title": "Pittsburgh Renaissance Festival", "text": "Pittsburgh Renaissance Festival\n\nThe Pittsburgh Renaissance Festival is a Renaissance fair located in West Newton, Pennsylvania. As of 2011, the fair is in its 17th season. In 2005 the fair had 55,000 attendees. The faire covers and, as of 2008, contained six stages. \n\nThe setting for the fair is a village called Morelandshire, sometime between 1533 and 1536.\n\nThe fair was founded in 1994, and held for three seasons at the Butler County Fairgrounds, while the organizers searched for a suitable property. The present site, an abandoned farm which had subsequently been strip mined and landscaped, was selected for its ideal location and setting, and first hosted the fair in the summer of 1997. In 2006 the fair was canceled due to lack of financing. However, a year later, the fair was purchased by Rocky Mountain Festivals and was reopened under the direction of the company's CEO.\n\n"}
{"id": "31655694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31655694", "title": "Reactions to the death of Osama bin Laden", "text": "Reactions to the death of Osama bin Laden\n\nOn May 1, 2011, United States President Barack Obama confirmed that al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden had been killed in his compound in Abbottabad, northeastern Pakistan. Bin Laden's death was welcomed throughout most of the world as a fitting end to a figure who had inspired mass bloodshed, and a positive and significant turning point in the fight against al-Qaeda and related groups. Those who welcomed it included the United Nations, European Union, NATO, and some nations in Asia, Africa, Oceania, South America, and the Middle East, including Yemen, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia, India, Israel, Indonesia, Somalia, the Philippines, Turkey, Iraq, Australia, Argentina, and the rebel Libyan Republic.\n\nHis killing was condemned, however, by the Hamas administration of the Gaza Strip, the Muslim Brotherhood, and the Taliban. Iran and the Muslim Brotherhood opined that bin Laden's death removed \"the last excuse\" for western forces to remain in the Middle East, and urged their withdrawal. The monitoring of Jihadist websites after bin Laden's death, by intelligence agency SITE, revealed encouragement of attacks in retaliation for his killing.\n\nEven before the official announcement, crowds gathered spontaneously to celebrate outside the White House, where thousands assembled. Hundreds of New Yorkers also gathered in Times Square and at Ground Zero, the site of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. In Dearborn, Michigan, a suburb of Detroit with a large Muslim and Arab population, a small crowd gathered outside the City Hall in celebration, many of them of Middle Eastern descent. From the beginning to the end of Obama's speech, 4,000 tweets per second were sent on Twitter.\n\nFans attending a nationally televised \"Sunday Night Baseball\" Major League Baseball game between two National League East rivals, the Philadelphia Phillies and the New York Mets, at Citizens Bank Park in Philadelphia initiated U-S-A! cheers in response to the news, confusing players and officials alike because no official announcement was made until later. Likewise, at WWE Extreme Rules 2011, a pay-per-view broadcast emanating from the St. Pete Times Forum in Tampa, Florida, newly crowned WWE Champion John Cena announced the news to the audience following the event's conclusion, resulting in a massive \"U-S-A!\" chant from the crowd. Students at Ohio State University celebrated by jumping into Mirror Lake, a tradition done before playing rivals Michigan in football. Hundreds of students at the University of Notre Dame, located in Notre Dame, Indiana, spontaneously gathered and celebrated by setting off fireworks, yelling loud chants, and running through busy student centers and libraries, many screaming the entire way through and carrying American flags. Students at the University of Southern California celebrated on USC's Greek Row, playing the national anthem and blasting fireworks. Students from many other universities, including cadets from the U.S. Military Academy and U.S. Air Force Academy, also celebrated when they got the news. Indian Americans hailed the U.S. Special Forces, and accused Pakistan of sheltering bin Laden and other terrorists.\n\nAll four major broadcast television networks (ABC, CBS, NBC and Fox) interrupted their regularly scheduled programming to cover the news. NBC, most notably, interrupted an episode of the Celebrity Apprentice, hosted by Obama's eventual successor Donald Trump. Nine television networks in total carried Obama's announcement, watched by 56.5 million Americans, his largest audience since election night.\n\nIn addition to the jubilant celebrations, many visitors quietly reflected at the Pentagon Memorial.\n\nFormer U.S. President George W. Bush said that \"this momentous achievement marks a victory for America, for people who seek peace around the world, and for all those who lost loved ones on September 11, 2001\". Former U.S. President Bill Clinton described it as \"a profoundly important moment for people all over the world who want to build a common future of peace, freedom, and cooperation for our children\". U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said: \"The fight [against terrorism] continues, and we will never waver. I know there are some who doubted this day would ever come, who questioned our resolve and our reach. But let us remind ourselves, this is America. We rise to the challenge, we persevere, and we get the job done.\"\n\nNew York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg said that he hoped the death of bin Laden \"would comfort those who lost loved ones\" in the September 11, 2001 attacks. Former National Security Advisor and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice characterized the news as \"absolutely thrilling\", adding that she was \"overwhelmed with gratitude and continue[s] to be amazed at what our military has achieved\". The event was also applauded by past Republican presidential contenders, including former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney, former Minnesota governor Tim Pawlenty, and Senator John McCain. Several U.S. senators questioned whether Pakistani authorities knew about bin Laden's presence in Pakistan, and had protected him.\n\nOn May 12, 2011, former Supreme Court Justice John Paul Stevens, speaking at a Northwestern University symposium, told the audience that based on his knowledge of the facts, \"It was not merely to do justice and avenge Sept. 11, [but] to remove an enemy who had been trying every day to attack the United States... I haven't the slightest doubt it was entirely appropriate for American forces to act\" as they did.\n\nIn an interview with \"60 Minutes\", U.S. Secretary of Defense Robert Gates said \"I worked for a lot of these guys [referring to the eight U.S. commanders-in-chief he has worked for during his career]. And this is one of the most courageous calls, decisions that I think I've ever seen a president make. For all of the concerns that I've just been talking about. The uncertainty of the intelligence. The consequences of it going bad. The risk to the lives of the Americans involved. It was a very gutsy call.\"\n\nFollowing the death of bin Laden, President Asif Ali Zardari convened emergency talks with Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gilani and security chiefs in Islamabad. Gilani said: \"We will not allow our soil to be used against any other country for terrorism and therefore I think it's a great victory, it's a success and I congratulate the success of this operation.\" Later Gilani blamed the world for their failure to capture bin Laden.\n\nThe day after the raid, the Pakistani government lashed out at the U.S., saying that the United States had taken \"an unauthorized unilateral action\" that would not be tolerated in the future. The foreign ministry further said, \"Such an event shall not serve as a future precedent for any state, including the United States.\"\n\nJUI-F deputy parliamentary leader Mufti Kifayatullah, in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Assembly, declared \"Osama is a hero...\" and that \"The great Muslim heroes are being killed here in Pakistan and it is a matter of shame for the Pakistan Army when the foreign forces come and kill people on our soil.\"\n\nForeign Secretary Salman Bashir said, \"Any other country that would ever act on assumption that it has the right to unilateralism of any sort will find as far as Pak is concerned that it has made a basic mistake\". He further stated that Pakistani military had scrambled F-16s after they became aware of the attack but that they reached the compound after American helicopters had left. Bashir also warned the U.S. and India against any such covert operations in the future, saying this would lead to a \"terrible catastrophe\".\n\nFormer Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf criticized the operation, saying, \"America coming to our territory and taking action is a violation of our sovereignty, handling and execution of the operation [by U.S. forces] is not correct. The Pakistani government should have been kept in the loop.\"\n\nSpeaking at the Lahore Press Club, former Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi criticised the government and openly demanded an explanation from top officials regarding the incident. He also called for President Zardari and Prime Minister Gillani to resign. Terming the American raid as \"unprovoked aggression\", Qureshi added that instead of addressing the nation during the crisis, Zardari instead chose to write an opinion piece in a foreign newspaper.\n\nCricketer-turned-politician Imran Khan said Pakistan had \"lost its dignity and self-esteem\" in the wake of the Osama operation and lashed out at the government and the intelligence. \"The big questions that everyone began asking, and for which no answers have been forthcoming, were: who allowed the Americans to come to Pakistan and carry out this attack? And whatever happened to the Pakistani Army and its intelligence?\"\n\nPakistan's military officials declined to comment, referring questions to the foreign ministry. After the operation, Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence admitted that there had been an intelligence failure. An official stated that the same compound had been raided in 2003, but since then had not been monitored. However, this account was disputed by American officials who said that satellite photos show that even as late as 2004, the site was an empty field. Pakistan's Military chief Ashfaq Parvez Kayani called the operation a \"misadventure\" and stated that no further raids would be tolerated. In addition he announced that the number of private American military personnel in Pakistan will be reduced \"to the minimum essential\".\n\nAccording to a statement by Pakistan Air Force Chief Marshal Rao Qamar Suleman, there had been an air-surveillance failure. Qamar covered the inquiry by saying that the air space was unable to detect the American helicopters because the radar installed on the western borders were inactive on the day of the incident. The U.S. helicopters also reportedly used radar-evading measures, such as stealth technology, to avoid detection.\n\nA poll conducted among educated respondents from Lahore, Karachi and Islamabad showed that 75% of them disapproved of the U.S. operation and 66% disbelieved that Osama Bin Laden had been killed at the compound in Abbottabad. There was also frustration and fierce criticism among the public and in Pakistani media against the military for its inability and failure in not detecting the American raid and allowing it to occur.\nA local resident, in reference to the security forces, commented: \"This is what they are paid for, to defend the borders, not to run bakeries and banks and real-estate empires.\"\n\nNumerous mobile text messages were observed doing the rounds in the country, apparently ridiculing the defence agencies for the security lapse.\nThere was mounting public outrage against President Zardari, who offered no official remarks even five days after the incident. Zardari also left for state visits to Kuwait and Russia immediately after the operation while Prime Minister Gillani left for a three-day state visit to France after the operation as well, provoking public sentiment that both had got their priorities wrong.\n\nThe People's Republic of China (PRC) said on Monday evening that the death of Osama bin Laden was \"a milestone and a positive development for the international anti-terrorism efforts\". Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Jiang Yu made the remarks when asked to comment on the killing of the al-Qaida leader. China supported Pakistan amid growing questions in the U.S. about whether the country was complicit in harboring Osama bin Laden saying the, \"Pakistani government's determination to fight terrorism are staunch and its actions have been vigorous.\" Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao discussed the issue with the U.S. in official talks. He asked the U.S. to respect Pakistan's sovereignty, and acknowledge its sacrifices in the war against terror. China also indicated that it would be assisting Pakistan in strengthening its Counter-Terrorism efforts, police force and army, with a specific focus on dealing with the specific domestic issues in Pakistan.\n\nThe vice president of the University of International Relations stated that bin Laden's death, and the aftermath of such, would not affect Beijing's policies towards Islamabad. Political analyst Hasan Askari stated that while the PRC and Pakistan will remain close, China would not risk its relations with the West over it, citing technological and monetary concerns.\n\nPublic reaction in the PRC to the death of Osama bin laden was mixed: an online poll of 500,000 Chinese citizens, conducted by Phoenix Television indicated that sixty percent agreed that bin Laden's death was a sad event because \"he was an anti-US warrior\". On the other hand, on Sina Weibo, many Chinese citizens were celebrating bin Laden's death, since his agenda has been responsible for deaths in Xinjiang. Some tech-savvy Chinese activists and intellectuals even used the event to criticise, or call attention to, PRC's domestic policies.\n\nIn the wake of Operation Neptune's Spear there were calls for similar strikes conducted by India against Hafiz Muhammad Saeed and Dawood Ibrahim, with Indian Army Chief General V K Singh telling reporters, \"I would like to say only this that if such a chance comes, then all the three arms (of the Indian Defense Forces) are competent to do this\". Indian Air Chief Marshal P V Naik said that India has the capability to carry out such surgical strikes against terrorists.\n\nFollowing the death of bin Laden in Pakistan, the Border Security Force of India was put on high alert along India's 553 km border with Pakistan, in Punjab. However, a former Pakistani Air Force commander dismissed this as the rhetoric of \"paper tigers\", and Indian Minister for Home Affairs P. Chidambaram cautioned that India might be unable to carry out such an attack because, \"We don't have our forces on Pakistani soil. We are not invited there. We don't have any support from Pakistan.\"\n\nThe public in India celebrated the death of bin Laden across its various cities, by thanking and congratulating the United States. In the Indian capital New Delhi, crowds gathered in the streets to celebrate the occasion, thanking U.S. President Barack Obama. \"Festival like celebrations\" were seen in Ahmedabad, where people lit firecrackers and burned photographs of bin Laden while shouting slogans. People in the coastal town of Udupi rejoiced on Monday by exchanging greetings and distributing sweets. Celebratory crowds in Udupi, headed by the chief of Shiroor Matha, shouted slogans and burned an effigy of bin Laden. In Bangalore, over 100 members of the Sri Ram Sene converged in Freedom Park in a jubilant mood to celebrate with firecrackers and the passing out of sweets to passers-by. The news of bin Laden's death was watched by 42.6 million Indians.\n\nPrime Minister of India Manmohan Singh welcomed the news of bin Laden's death, saying, \"I welcome it as a significant step forward and hope that it will deal a decisive blow to Al-Qaeda and other terrorist groups. The international community and Pakistan in particular must work comprehensively to end the activities of all such groups who threaten civilized behaviour and kill innocent men, women and children.\" Minister for Home Affairs P. Chidambaram said that bin Laden hiding near Islamabad was a matter of grave concern for India as evidence the country was a \"sanctuary\" for terrorists. He called on Pakistan to arrest the \"many of the perpetrators of the Mumbai terror attacks, including the controllers and the handlers of the terrorists who actually carried out the attack\", who he alleged \"continue to be sheltered in Pakistan\".<br> Minister of External Affairs S. M. Krishna hailed the killing of bin Laden as \"historic\" and a \"victorious milestone\" in the global war against terrorism. The Chief Minister of Gujarat, Narendra Modi, expressed his happiness about bin Laden's death, and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) also hailed the news. The BJP said that bin Laden was the most dangerous face of global and jihadi terrorism and needed to be punished for his evil ideologies and stressed that his death in Pakistan proved India's repeated assertion that \"Pakistan is the epicenter of global terrorism\". Senior BJP leader Sushma Swaraj (also the opposition leader in the Indian Parliament) said, \"Osama was enemy number one of humanity\".\n\n\n\n\n\nSaid Steve Kroft on the May 8, 2011, edition of \"60 Minutes\", \"For more than a decade, bin Laden managed to elude the U.S. military and intelligence establishments, and he taunted three U.S. presidents. That finally ended last Sunday, and the last thing bin Laden saw was a Navy SEAL in the third floor bedroom of his compound in Pakistan.\" According to \"The Economist\", \"The silence of the usual critics of 'illegal', 'extrajudicial', targeted killing in the wake of America's killing of Osama bin Laden might reflect hypocrisy, sure. But this can be tough to distinguish from resignation to the fact that Mr Obama didn't submit his case for executing Mr bin Laden to some global civil authority because there isn't one and he didn't have to—because America's the biggest kid on the block and, ultimately, what America says goes. And, if it comes down to it, Britain, France, Italy, Russia and other powerful governments hope America will indulge their own kill-squad adventures with similar approving silences. Of course, if some aggrieved faction in the future seeks retribution through the targeted killing of one of these countries' leaders, that will be raw vengeance, that will be terrorism, that will be an international crime, because, like it or not, that's how it works.\"\n\nGeorge Will suggested that America could use bin Laden's death to \"draw a deep breath and some pertinent conclusions\", among them that \"bin Laden was brought down by intelligence gathering that more resembles excellent police work than a military operation.\" He added, \"There remains much more to al-Qaeda than bin Laden, and there are many more tentacles to the terrorism threat than al-Qaeda and its affiliates. So 'the long war' must go on. But perhaps such language is bewitching our minds, because this is not essentially war.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26032914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26032914", "title": "René Boileau (ice hockey)", "text": "René Boileau (ice hockey)\n\nJoseph Lorenzo Lionel Boileau (May 18, 1904 – June 9, 1969), known as René Boileau, was a Canadian professional ice hockey player who played seven games in the National Hockey League (NHL) for the New York Americans and five seasons in various minor-professional leagues. As a publicity stunt, the Americans billed Boileau, a French Canadian, as \"the first Native American in the NHL\" and claimed his name was Rainy Drinkwater. René is the father of the former NHL hockey player, Marc Boileau.\n\nBoileau, a native of Pointe-Claire, Quebec, played his only season in the NHL in 1925–26. Prior to joining the Americans, he played three seasons of amateur hockey in Montreal. Americans manager Tommy Duggan was anxious to promote the first-year Americans and upon signing Boileau used him as part of a publicity stunt. The Americans official announcement on the signing promoted Boileau under the pseudonym \"Rainy Drinkwater\" and announced that the French-Canadian player was instead from the Caughnawaga Indian Reservation, and the first Native American to play in the NHL. The Canadian press took note of the promotion; former \"Toronto Star\" sports editor Milt Dunnell said that \"He received more ink than Sitting Bull\". He played only seven games with the Americans, scoring no points.\n\nBoileau spent the next five seasons playing professional hockey with the Niagara Falls Cataracts of the Canadian Professional Hockey League, New Haven Eagles of the Canadian American Hockey League and St. Louis Flyers of the American Hockey Association. He then played two seasons of semi-professional hockey in Quebec teams before retiring in 1934. His son, Marc, played and coached in the NHL.\n"}
{"id": "11393818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11393818", "title": "Teatro Lirico (Milan)", "text": "Teatro Lirico (Milan)\n\nThe Teatro Lirico (known until 1894 as the Teatro alla Canobbiana) is a theatre in Milan, Italy. In the 19th and early 20th centuries it was particularly notable for opera performances, including the world premieres of Donizetti's \"L'elisir d'amore\" and Giordano's \"Fedora\". The theatre, located on Via Rastrelli, closed in 1998. However, a restoration project was begun in April 2007, and it was due to re-open in 2009 as the Teatro Lirico Giorgio Gaber.\n\nThe Court Theatre of the Ducal Palace in Milan was destroyed by fire on February 26, 1776. With the city deprived of its only theatre, Giuseppe Piermarini was commissioned to design and build two new theatres on land surrounding the Palace. The church of Santa Maria della Scala was demolished to build the Teatro alla Scala. A second theatre was built nearby, on the site of the Scuole Cannobiane and was called the Teatro alla Canobbiana. The Teatro alla Scala was intended for the more aristocratic audiences, while the Cannobiana was considered the theater for the public at large.\n\nIt was inaugurated on August 21, 1779 (a little more than year after the opening of La Scala) with an opera buffa and ballet by Salieri. Like La Scala and many Italian opera houses of the time, it was built in a horseshoe shape, surmounted by a cupola, with four tiers of boxes and a gallery (or \"loggione\"). For nearly a century it was Milan's second opera house.\n\nBy the 1880s, with the increasing lack of public funds and fewer and fewer private subscriptions, the Teatro alla Canobbiana had fallen on hard times. In 1894, it was taken over by Edoardo Sonzogno and renamed the Teatro Lirico Internazionale, although it is normally referred to in Milan simply as the Teatro Lirico. The theatre continued to be used for opera, ballet, and plays into the 20th century, but was taken over by the city of Milan in 1926, after which it was increasingly used for public assemblies. It was in the Teatro Lirico that Benito Mussolini made one of his first public speeches in 1921 and his last public speech and radio broadcast in 1944. The building was badly damaged by a fire in 1938, but was repaired in time to host the 1943 season for La Scala after its own theatre had been largely destroyed by the American aerial bombardment of Milan during World War II.\n\nTheatrical performances, and public meetings resumed after the War, and for a period in the 1960s, the Teatro Lirico was the home of Giorgio Strehler's Piccolo Teatro di Milano. In 1998, facing financial difficulties, Milan could no longer afford to run the theatre, and in the absence of outside funding, it was closed.\n\nIn April 2007, after several false starts, work was begun to renovate and modernise the theatre while keeping the Piermarini facade and the basic design of the original interior. When it re-opens, it will be called the Teatro Lirico Giorgio Gaber in honour of the Milanese singer, songwriter, actor and playwright who had frequently performed at the Teatro Lirico from the early 1960s until its closure in 1998. The renovated theatre will also house the archives of the Fondazione Giorgio Gaber.\n\nOpera\n\n\nBallet\n\nFurther Reading\n\n"}
{"id": "3815505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3815505", "title": "The Barbarian and the Geisha", "text": "The Barbarian and the Geisha\n\nThe Barbarian and the Geisha (working titles The Townsend Harris Story and The Barbarian) is a 1958 American biographical film drama in CinemaScope and DeLuxe Color from 20th Century Fox. It was produced by Eugene Frenke, directed by John Huston, and stars John Wayne, Sam Jaffe, and Japanese actress Eiko Ando. The film was shot primarily on location in Japan.\n\nTownsend Harris is appointed the first Consul General to Japan. Upon his arrival, Harris discovers that the Japanese thoroughly mistrust all foreigners, despite a two-year old treaty between Japan and the United States. Harris slowly earns the respect of the local governor and trust of the local townsfolk and is eventually granted an audience with Japan's military dictator, the Shōgun. \n\nIn 1856, Townsend Harris (John Wayne) is sent by President Franklin Pierce to serve as the first U.S. Consul General to Japan, following the treaty written by Commodore Matthew Perry two years before. Accompanied only by his translator-secretary, Huesken (Jaffe), Townsend comes ashore at the town of Shimoda prefecture, as specified in the treaty as the location for an American consulate.\n\nHowever, the Japanese governor (Sō Yamamura) refuses to accept his credentials, denying him any official status, due to a conflict between interpretations of the treaty terms. While Harris believes that the Consul shall be present whenever either country requires, the Japanese believe the terms to permit a consul only when both countries require. The governor holds to his interpretation, largely because of objections over the threats under which the treaty was forced upon them. Harris is permitted to remain in Shimoda, but only as a private citizen, with no recognition of his official status. He is provided the use of an abandoned home, adjacent to the town cemetery.\n\nThe governor explains that, in the two years following Perry's visit, various natural disasters had taken place. Some Japanese believed them to be warnings from the gods to avoid foreign influences. In the weeks that follow, Harris is the target of distrust and hostility, to the extent that Tamura orders townspeople to not even sell him food. Some in Japan wanted the country opened, but many others feared the corruption of foreign influences, and invasion by the barbarians of other lands. For this reason, Harris is not permitted to leave Shimoda, nor to go any closer to the capitol in Edo, 100 miles away.\n\nFor his own part, Harris does his best to cooperate with the Governor, even obeying orders to take down the American flag which had been raised to mark the location of the Consulate. His cooperation noted, after several months, Harris is eventually invited to dine with the Governor, a dinner following which Tamura sends a geisha named Okichi (Eiko Ando) to take care of Harris' needs.\n\nThe relationship between Harris and Okichi grows closer and more intimate, and she helps him understand Japanese culture.\n\nHarris makes a number of blunders, one of which leads to a cholera epidemic and the destruction of the town. However, out of this disaster comes Harris' opportunity to go to Edo, where he must then convince the Shogunate to open the country, while facing his greatest crisis.\n\nDirector Anthony Mann initially owned the story but he sold the rights to 20th Century Fox after being unable to sign a big star to play the lead.\n\nExteriors were shot on location in Japan at Kyoto and the Tōdai-ji shrine in Nara. Interiors and additional scenes were completed at Toho Studios in Tokyo and 20th Century Fox Studios, Los Angeles. During filming, Wayne and director John Huston did not get along; in one altercation, Wayne throttled and punched Huston on set.\n\nThe film was heavily re-edited by 20th Century Fox before release. Director John Huston denounced this version and even wanted to have his name removed from the credits. Huston had wanted to make a particularly Japanese film in terms of photography, pacing, color and narration but according to him only a few edits – representing his vision – were left intact in the theatrical version.\n\nThe film performed disappointingly at the box office. Despite Huston's anger at studio interference, the \"New York Times\" Bosley Crowther liked the film's cinematography calling it a \"whole picture out of patience and pageantry\". Blu-ray.com's Casey Broadwater observed this about the film: \"Wayne's restrained and uncomfortable \"other-ness\" as a gaijin in Japan is essential to the story. With his cowboy swagger and deep commanding drawl, Wayne typifies every Japanese stereotype about brash, take-charge Americans, and \"Barbarian\"s specific frisson comes from seeing his character stumped and stymied by a culture that values group-think over individualism\".\n\nThe film is based on American diplomat Townsend Harris and his time in Japan during the final years of the Tokugawa shogunate. President Franklin Pierce named Harris the first Consul General to the Empire of Japan in July 1856. He opened the first U.S. Consulate at the Gyokusen-ji Temple in the city of Shimoda, Shizuoka Prefecture. This consolidated the mission by Commodore Perry who established the first trade agreement between the U.S. and Japan in 1853. Harris left Japan in 1861.\n\nIn Harris' time, Japan was living through the final years of its period when the country remained in international isolation and adhered to strict customs and regulations intended to promote stability. In 1868, just seven years after Harris' departure, the Meiji Restoration started Japan's emergence as a modernized nation in the early twentieth century through massive industrialization, and enormous reforms to its political and social structure.\n\n\"The Barbarian and the Geisha\" was released as a combo Blu-ray and DVD two disc set on May 8, 2012, by 20th Century Fox Home Entertainment.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26216931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26216931", "title": "USA Science and Engineering Festival", "text": "USA Science and Engineering Festival\n\nThe biennial USA Science & Engineering Festival is a free science festival held in Washington, D.C.. The festival is the largest celebration of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) disciplines in the United States. Serial Entrepreneur Larry Bock and senior directors of the Lockheed Martin Corporation founded the festival.\n\nThe inaugural event was held from October 10, 2010, through October 24, 2010, the second festival was April 27–29, 2012 (attended by a quarter million visitors), and the third festival (attended by over 325,000 visitors) was April 24–27, 2014. The third festival featured the first X-STEM Symposium on April 24, 2014, with interactive presentations and workshops. The fourth festival was held on April 16-17, 2016. The fifth festival was held on April 7-8, 2018. Celebrating a decade of STEM, the sixth festival will return on April 25-26, 2020. The theme for the upcoming event is \"the Vision for STEM\". \n\nThe second X-STEM Symposium was held as a stand-alone event on April 2015 and continues on an annual basis. X-STEM features interactive presentations by an exclusive group of visionaries aimed to inspire kids to pursue careers in STEM. X-STEM is open to students in grades 6-12. The next event will take place on March 19, 2019, in Washington, DC. The Festival organizers are seeking to make X-STEM a national program with events across the country. \n\nThe stated mission of the USA Science & Engineering Festival is to stimulate and sustain the interest of our nation’s youth in science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) by producing and presenting the most compelling, exciting, and educational Festival in the world. The USA Science & Engineering Festival serves as an open forum to showcase all facets of STEM.\"\n\nThe 2010 festival lasted for two weeks and culminated with an October 23–24 Expo on the National Mall. The Expo featured interactive hands-on science activities presented by over 550 U.S. science and engineering organizations. 125 universities/research institutes, 125 professional science societies, 50 government agencies, 30 high tech and life science companies and 150 informal science outreach organizations participated in the festival. Participants (partners) included the National Academy of Engineering, National Academy of Sciences, American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS), American Physical Society, American Chemical Society, Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), Association for Women in Science, Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers, National Society of Black Engineers, Harvard University, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Princeton University, Georgetown University, University of California, San Diego, University of California, Berkeley, Johns Hopkins University, United States Naval Academy, Duke University, University of Maryland, J. Craig Venter Institute, Carnegie Institution for Science, National Institutes of Health (NIH), National Science Foundation (NSF), National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), Office of Naval Research, U.S. Department of Energy, Air Force Research Laboratory, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory (Fermilab), Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory, Lockheed Martin, Agilent Technologies, Google, Baxter International, ResMed, Hitachi, Smithsonian Institution, American Museum of Natural History, United States Botanic Garden, Marian Koshland Science Museum, For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology (FIRST), Girls, Inc., Girl Scouts of the United States of America and Boy Scouts of America.\n\nThe Nifty Fifty program was a group of fifty nominated professionals in various areas of science and engineering who interacted and spoke about their work and careers to middle and high school students across Washington, D.C., in the fall of 2010. Speakers' backgrounds were varied and spanned chemistry, biotechnology, engineering, math, computer science, medicine, green technology, nanotechnology, business, physics, astronomy, and energy.\n\nThe \"Lunch with a Laureate\" program was focused on a small group of middle and high school students across the greater Washington, D.C., Northern Virginia, and Maryland areas. The purpose of the program was to engage students in informal conversations with a Nobel Prize–winning scientist over a brown-bag lunch. The twelve laureates that participated in this program were Leon M. Lederman, John C. Mather, William Daniel Phillips, Robert H. Grubbs, Alan J. Heeger, Dudley R. Herschbach, Phillip A. Sharp, Kary B. Mullis, Kurt Wuthrich, Douglas D. Osheroff, Baruch Samuel Blumberg and Sir Harry Kroto.\n\nThe two-week festival ended with a two-day expo on the National Mall that featured over 500 U.S. science organizations. The list of exhibitors included universities, colleges, high school science clubs, student organizations, research institutes, informal science outreach organizations, community organizations, professional science & engineering societies, life science and high tech companies, and other types of science organizations. About 500,000 people reportedly attended the event.\n\nThe second expo took place in Walter E. Washington Convention Center in Washington, D.C., on April 27–29, 2012. The third expo took place in the Walter E. Washington Convention Center on April 26–27, 2014.\n\nSatellite festivals were being planned in 2010 at a number of locations throughout the United States, including: Arizona: Tucson; California: Los Angeles, Oakland, San Francisco, Santa Ana; Florida: Gainesville, Jacksonville, Ruskin, West Palm Beach; Idaho: Pocatello; Illinois: Chicago, DeKalb; Maryland: Middle River, Rockville; New Jersey: Clifton; New York: New York City, Rochester; North Carolina: Chapel Hill (North Carolina Science Festival); Ohio: Cleveland, Columbus; Texas: Austin, Dallas, San Antonio; Virginia: Fairfax, Falls Church, Hampton, Reston; Washington: Vancouver (Pacific Northwest Science & Engineering Festival). Michigan Tech's Mind Trekkers is also a traveling component of the USA Science & Engineering Festival.\n\nThe festival had a bipartisan Honorary Congressional Host Committee of over 100 members. House Resolution 1660 and Senate Resolution 656 were unanimously approved in support of the goals of the USA Science & Engineering Festival.\n\nThe White House scheduled its inaugural science fair to coincide with the inaugural USA Science & Engineering Festival. President Obama referenced the importance of this Festival in his keynote address at the White House Science Fair.\n\nPresident Obama created a dedicated public service announcement inviting the general public to the USA Science & Engineering Festival.\n\nOver 50 major government officials attended or participated directly in the USA Science and Engineering Festival including: Chief Science Advisor John Holdren, Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood, Head of R&D for Department of Defense Zachary Lemnios, Head of R&D for Office of Naval Research Michael Kassner talks about ONR's involvement with the USA Science and Engineering Festival, Head of R&D for the National Park Service Gary Machlis was involved with the festival's Nifty Fifty program, Head of R&D for EPA Paul Anastas was involved with both the Nifty Fifty program and the kick off of the festival, William Brinkman of the Department of Energy and NIH Director Francis Collins was a Nifty Fifty speaker as well as he performed his own songs at the festival's expo.\n\nMany science celebrities participated in the inaugural USA Science & Engineering Festival, including Bill Nye the Science Guy; Jamie Hyneman, Adam Savage, and Kari Byron from the television show Mythbusters; Sid the Science Kid; cast members of NCIS; and Ernő Rubik.\n\nThe 2012 USA Science & Engineering Festival was at the Walter E. Washington Convention Center on April 28–29, 2012, and Sneak Peek Friday was April 27, 2012. The 2nd USA Science & Engineering Festival hosted programs leading up to the festival, including Nifty Fifty, Lunch with a Laureate, Satellite Events, Sneak Peek Friday and more.\n\nIncluding attendees, exhibitors, volunteers and staff over 200,000 people actively participating in this momentous Festival celebration over the three-day period. The DC Convention Center has reported that the 2nd USA Science & Engineering Festival is the second most attended event in the history of the Center! Sneak Peek Friday more than doubled in size based on the number of students who had pre-registered, and included nearly 28,000 students, teachers, military families, government officials and press.\n\nAnother 300,000 individuals celebrated science and engineering at 90+ Satellite Events and Affiliate Festivals across the country and beyond. The festival spirit reached as far as Wroclaw, Poland, where 13 universities and high schools created the Lower Silesian Science Festival, anchored to the USA Science & Engineering Festival. In addition, over 50,000 people participated in the Nifty Fifty and other pre-Expo events. And another 5,000 participated in events surrounding the Expo such as the Stargazing Party, Science Comedy Night and the Featured Author Evening.\n\nThe festival was attended by key White House officials such as Valerie Jarrett, Senior Advisor and Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental Affairs and Public Engagement; President Obama’s daughters, Sasha and Malia, attended a Nifty Fifty presentation; senior leaders from other countries attended, including Prince Mohammed from Saudi Arabia.\n\nThe festival hosted approximately 3,000 hands-on activities from over 550 participating organizations. Over 800 schools participated in the festival and transportation grants were issued to under deserved schools in the Greater DC is to bring students to the festival. Attendees enjoyed 150 live performances by science celebrities, explorers, best-selling authors, entrepreneurs, and world-renowned experts. The Nifty Fifty Program doubled and over 100 of the top scientists and engineers in the country were selected to speak at schools in the Greater DC area in the month leading up to the festival.\n\nJamie Hyneman and Adam Savage, of Discovery Channel's \"MythBusters\" performed at the 2012 Festival. Science celebrities included Bill Nye the Science Guy, Mayim Bialik, Apollo Robbins, Sid the Science Kid, Samantha Yammine, cast members of NCIS Los Angeles, U.S. Olympic Speed Skaters and more. Elon Musk, Richard Garriott and George T. Whitesides were on hand to host a panel discussion. Other celebrities included NASA astronauts, world-renowned authors, top scientists and engineers.\n\nThe 3rd USA Science & Engineering Festival, the largest science festival in the United States, featured nationwide contests and school programs during the 2013/2014 school year, including the popular \"Nifty Fifty\" science speaker program. The festival culminated in a two-day Grand Finale Expo on April 26–27, 2014, with Sneak Peek Friday on April 25, and the U.S. News STEM Solutions Conference on April 23–25. The new X-STEM Symposium- presented by Northrop Grumman Foundation - an Extreme STEM Symposium was conducted for middle and high school students on April 24.\n\nThe festival took over the entire Walter E. Washington Convention Center, utilizing over 2.3 million square feet of space. Based on estimated numbers from the Convention Center, more than 325,000 people attended over the 4 days (X-STEM and Sneak Peek Friday included). Exhibitors stated that roughly 11,000 visitors stopped by their booth over the course of the three-day Expo. Attendees from all 50 states in the U.S. and international attendees from over 20 different countries visited the festival. Sneak Peek Friday included 40,000+ students, teachers, military families, government officials and press – a 30% increase from 2012. Sneak Peek Friday attendees included students from 38 states – and three countries. More than 4,000 students and teachers from area and underserved schools, homeschoolers, and military families attended the inaugural X-STEM Symposium.\n\nAnother 300,000 individuals celebrated science & engineering at 200+ Satellite Events and Affiliate Festivals across the country and beyond. In addition, over 180,000 people participated in the Nifty Fifty and other pre-Expo events.\n\nTo bring a new STEM decision maker audience to the festival, the festival hosted over 20 other major STEM Professional Events at the Convention Center at the same time as this event, including the U.S. News STEM Solutions Conference and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) P3 college student competition. More than 400 new organizations that had never participated before with big increases in the areas of Advanced Manufacturing, Robotics, Skilled Trades Professionals, STEAM (i.e., Design) and DIYers/Makers, and overall doubled the number of participating exhibitors from 2012.\n\n\nThe 4th USA Science & Engineering Festival culminated in a two–day Grand Finale Expo on April 16–17, 2016 at the Walter E. Washington Convention Center in Washington, D.C. Over 1,000 leading STEM organizations presented hands-on science and engineering activities. Sneak Peek Friday took place on April 15, 2016.\nThe X-STEM Symposium was held as a stand-alone event on April 14, 2016, and featured presentations and workshops by leaders in science, technology, engineering and mathematics.\nThe 5th USA Science & Engineering Festival Expo was presented by Lockheed Martin on April 7-8, 2018 at the Walter E. Washington Convention Center in Washington, D.C. Over 1,000 leading STEM organizations presented hands-on science and engineering activities. Sneak Peek Friday took place on April 6, 2018, and the first STEM Career Fair took place on Friday night. Rising marine biologist and television host Danni Washington served as the first-ever Festival spokesperson. Sponsors of the event included Chevron, Stanley Black & Decker, Honda, SeaWorld, NCR Foundation, Deloitte, EY and hundreds more. Government support included the DoD, NASA, USDA, NSF, NIH, the State Department and more. \n\nThe X-STEM Symposium was held as a stand-alone event on April 5, 2018, and featured presentations and workshops by leaders in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics. X-STEM was sponsored by NCR, NBC4 and PWC. \n\nHighlights\nThe upcoming 6th USA Science & Engineering Festival Expo will take place on April 25-26, 2020 in Washington, DC. The theme for the Expo is \"Vision for STEM\" as we celebrate a decade of the Festival! The Vision for STEM theme encourages Expo sponsors and exhibitors to see today’s students as tomorrow’s explorers, discoverers, and innovators as we focus on the future of workforce development and STEM education. \n\n"}
{"id": "168341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=168341", "title": "Veterans Day", "text": "Veterans Day\n\nVeterans Day (originally known as Armistice Day) is an official United States public holiday observed annually on November 11, honoring military veterans, that is, persons who have served in the United States Armed Forces. It coincides with other holidays including Armistice Day and Remembrance Day which are celebrated in other countries that mark the anniversary of the end of World War I. Major hostilities of World War I were formally ended at the 11th hour of the 11th day of the 11th month of 1918, when the Armistice with Germany went into effect. At the urging of major U.S. veteran organizations, Armistice Day was renamed Veterans Day in 1954.\n\nVeterans Day is distinct from Memorial Day, a U.S. public holiday in May. Veterans Day celebrates the service of all U.S. military veterans, while Memorial Day honors those who \"died\" while in military service. There is another military holiday, Armed Forces Day, a minor U.S. remembrance that also occurs in May, which honors those \"currently serving\" in the U.S. military.\n\nOn November 11, 1919, U.S. President Woodrow Wilson issued a message to his countrymen on the first Armistice Day, in which he expressed what he felt the day meant to Americans:\n<poem>ADDRESS TO FELLOW-COUNTRYMEN \nThe White House, November 11, 1919. \n\nA year ago today our enemies laid down their arms in accordance with an armistice which rendered them impotent to renew hostilities, and gave to the world an assured opportunity to reconstruct its shattered order and to work out in peace a new and juster set of international relations. The soldiers and people of the European Allies had fought and endured for more than four years to uphold the barrier of civilization against the aggressions of armed force. We ourselves had been in the conflict something more than a year and a half.\n\nWith splendid forgetfulness of mere personal concerns, we remodeled our industries, concentrated our financial resources, increased our agricultural output, and assembled a great army, so that at the last our power was a decisive factor in the victory. We were able to bring the vast resources, material and moral, of a great and free people to the assistance of our associates in Europe who had suffered and sacrificed without limit in the cause for which we fought. \n\nOut of this victory there arose new possibilities of political freedom and economic concert. The war showed us the strength of great nations acting together for high purposes, and the victory of arms foretells the enduring conquests which can be made in peace when nations act justly and in furtherance of the common interests of men. \n\nTo us in America the reflections of Armistice Day will be filled with solemn pride in the heroism of those who died in the country’s service, and with gratitude for the victory, both because of the thing from which it has freed us and because of the opportunity it has given America to show her sympathy with peace and justice in the councils of nations. \n\nWOODROW WILSON</poem>\n\nThe United States Congress adopted a resolution on June 4, 1926, requesting that President Calvin Coolidge issue annual proclamations calling for the observance of November 11 with appropriate ceremonies. A Congressional Act (52 Stat. 351; 5 U.S. Code, Sec. 87a) approved May 13, 1938, made November 11 in each year a legal holiday: \"a day to be dedicated to the cause of world peace and to be thereafter celebrated and known as 'Armistice Day'.\"\nIn 1945, World War II veteran Raymond Weeks from Birmingham, Alabama, had the idea to expand Armistice Day to celebrate all veterans, not just those who died in World War I. Weeks led a delegation to Gen. Dwight Eisenhower, who supported the idea of National Veterans Day. Weeks led the first national celebration in 1947 in Alabama and annually until his death in 1985. President Reagan honored Weeks at the White House with the Presidential Citizenship Medal in 1982 as the driving force for the national holiday. Elizabeth Dole, who prepared the briefing for President Reagan, determined Weeks as the \"Father of Veterans Day.\"\n\nU.S. Representative Ed Rees from Emporia, Kansas, presented a bill establishing the holiday through Congress. President Dwight D. Eisenhower, also from Kansas, signed the bill into law on May 26, 1954. It had been eight and a half years since Weeks held his first Armistice Day celebration for all veterans.\n\nCongress amended the bill on June 1, 1954, replacing \"Armistice\" with \"Veterans,\" and it has been known as Veterans Day since.\n\nThe National Veterans Award was also created in 1954. Congressman Rees of Kansas received the first National Veterans Award in Birmingham, Alabama, for his support offering legislation to make Veterans Day a federal holiday.\n\nAlthough originally scheduled for celebration on November 11 of every year, starting in 1971 in accordance with the Uniform Monday Holiday Act, Veterans Day was moved to the fourth Monday of October (October 25, 1971; October 23, 1972; October 22, 1973; October 28, 1974; October 27, 1975; October 25, 1976, and October 24, 1977). In 1978, it was moved back to its original celebration on November 11. While the legal holiday remains on November 11, if that date happens to be on a Saturday or Sunday, then organizations that formally observe the holiday will normally be closed on the adjacent Friday or Monday, respectively.\n\nBecause it is a federal holiday, some American workers and many students have Veterans Day off from work or school. When Veterans Day falls on a Saturday then either Saturday or the preceding Friday may be designated as the holiday, whereas if it falls on a Sunday it is typically observed on the following Monday. When it falls on weekend many private companies offer it as a floating holiday where employee can choose some other day. A Society for Human Resource Management poll in 2010 found that 21 percent of employers planned to observe the holiday in 2011.\n\nNon-essential federal government offices are closed. No mail is delivered. All federal workers are paid for the holiday; those who are required to work on the holiday sometimes receive holiday pay for that day in addition to their wages.\n\nIn his Armistice Day address to Congress, Wilson was sensitive to the psychological toll of the lean War years: \"Hunger does not breed reform; it breeds madness,\" he remarked. As Veterans Day and the birthday of the United States Marine Corps (November 10, 1775) are only one day apart, that branch of the Armed Forces customarily observes both occasions as a 96-hour liberty period.\n\nElection Day is a regular working day, while Veterans Day, which typically falls the following week, is a federal holiday. The National Commission on Federal Election Reform called for the holidays to be merged, so citizens can have a day off to vote. They state this as a way to honor voting by exercising democratic rights.\n\nWhile the holiday is commonly printed as \"Veteran's Day\" or \"Veterans' Day\" in calendars and advertisements (spellings that are grammatically acceptable), the United States Department of Veterans Affairs website states that the attributive (no apostrophe) rather than the possessive case is the official spelling \"because it is not a day that 'belongs' to veterans, it is a day for honoring all veterans.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "31041958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31041958", "title": "Zenga Zenga", "text": "Zenga Zenga\n\nZenga Zenga is an auto-tuned song and viral YouTube video that parodied the Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi. The song, released on February 22, 2011, quickly became popular among the Libyan opposition active in the 2011 Libyan civil war.\n\nThe song was created by Noy Alooshe, an Israeli journalist and musician. The original video has more than 4 million views and the edited \"clean\" version has surpassed 1 million hits.\n\nOn February 22, 2011, Gaddafi gave a televised speech amidst violent social unrest against his government. In the speech (in Arabic), Gaddafi vowed to hunt down rebel fighters \"inch by inch, house by house, home by home, \"alleyway by alleyway\" [Arabic: زنقة زنقة prounouced in Libyan dialect as \"Zenga Zenga\"], person by person.\"\n\nAn Israeli journalist and musician, Noy Alooshe, was watching the speech and saw Gaddafi's strange dress and gesticulations as something out of a trance party. Using the natural beat of Gaddafi's words, Alooshe spent a few hours at his computer and using Auto-Tune technology set the speech to the music of \"Hey Baby,\" a song by American rapper Pitbull featuring another American rap artist, T-Pain. The original video features clips from Gaddafi's speech alongside mirror images of a scantily clad woman dancing.\n\nAlooshe titled the new song \"Zenga Zenga,\" based on Gaddafi's repetition in his speech of the word \"zanqa\", Arabic for alleyway in the Libyan dialect. American comedian Conan O'Brien ostensibly first popularized the transformation of \"zanqa\" into \"zenga zenga\" and Alooshe named the clip accordingly. By early Wednesday morning in Israel, Alooshe had uploaded the \"electro hip hop remix\" to YouTube. By Sunday night, through promotion on Twitter and Facebook, the video had gone viral, receiving nearly 500,000 hits.\n\nReactions were largely positive, presumably from members of the Libyan opposition who embraced it for its mockery of Gaddafi. Some also found the video distasteful, not only because it contains a woman provocatively dancing, but also because the creator of the video, Alooshe, is an Israeli Jew. At the request of web users who wanted to be able to share the video with their more conservative parents, Alooshe created another version without the clips of the dancer.\n\nHowever, Gaddafi and his loyalist supporters apparently co-opted the song for their own purposes. As reported by \"The Guardian\", at a speech given by Gaddafi's daughter, Ayesha Gaddafi, \"Zenga Zenga\" blared in the background.\n\nThe original video has more than 5 million views on YouTube. The edited version without the girl has over 1 million hits.\n\n"}
