{"id": "38530302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38530302", "title": "Aarhus University, School of Business and Social Sciences", "text": "Aarhus University, School of Business and Social Sciences\n\nThe Aarhus University School of Business and Social Sciences (in short Aarhus BSS) is one of four faculties of Aarhus University in Denmark. The school consists of seven departments: Economics and Business Economics, Management, Political Science, Law, Business Communication, Psychology and Behavioural Sciences and Department of Business Development and Technology (located in the city of Herning). The main campus is located in Aarhus. \n\nAarhus BSS is a merger from 2007 and teaches programmes at Bachelor’s, Master and PhD level along with the MBA (Master of Business Administration), EMBA (Executive MBA) programmes and Summer University and Winter school courses. In 2010 Dale T. Mortensen, a Niels Bohr Visiting Professor at Aarhus University, received the Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences together with his colleagues Peter Diamond and Christopher Pissarides.\n\nThe history of the Aarhus BSS is both old and new. On 1 January 2007, Aarhus School of Business (ASB or in Danish: \"Handelshøjskolen)\" merged with Aarhus University to become part of Aarhus University and in 2011 the Aarhus School of Business and Faculty of Social Sciences at Aarhus University were merged under the name of Aarhus University, School of Business and Social Sciences. Aarhus School of Business was founded in 1939, and the Faculty of Social Sciences, consisting of several departments and faculties established between 1936 and 1969.\n\nAarhus School of Business's predecessor, The Jutland Business School (Den Jyske Handelshøjskole, DJH), has a somewhat more extensive history. Already in the late 1800s, DJH provided business programmes to young people from Jutland who wished to follow studies within business, economics and trade. Only when Aarhus School of Business was founded in 1939 did it become the academic institution that it was known as today.\n\nAarhus School of Business has continually grown since its founding. In 1968 Aarhus School of Business moved from the original location downtown Aarhus to the yellow and red brick buildings which since then have provided the setting for the outstanding research and teaching that Aarhus School of Business stood for.\n\nAfter the 2011 merger the school now has around 16,000 students, 737 academic staff, including 223 PhD students, making it one of the largest business schools in Europe.\n\nThe campus of the School of Business and Social Sciences has its main base around the University Park, the Nobel Park and campus Fuglesangs Allé, all located in the centre of Aarhus. In 2006, the Institute of Business and Technology in Herning (now AU Herning) was merged with Aarhus University, adding Birk Centerpark in Herning to the campus sites of School of Business and Social Sciences.\n\nBecause of its large number of students, Aarhus is regarded as a university town.\n\nThe campus in Aarhus and Herning offers a number of facilities, including Aarhus University Sport (AUS) which hosts more than 16 different sports activities and Denmark’s biggest Sports Day and Friday Bar, libraries on all campus sites, student organisations like Studenterlauget and the Student Council, and cafeterias and cafes like Dale’s café, Aarhus Student House and Klubben.\n\nAccommodation at the university is possible in the University Park Dormitories.\n\n\n\nSchool of Business and Social Sciences also teaches a one-year full-time MBA (Master in Business Administration) which integrates both sustainability and personal development into all courses. 25 applicants are admitted to the MBA programme every year.\n\nThe school also offers a two-year Executive MBA in Change Management and Leadership aimed at experienced managers. During the programme, managers will go on study trips to Stanford University and a university in Asia.\n\nGraduate School of Business and Social Sciences offers the following seven PhD programmes:\n\n\nAll programmes, except Social Science and Business (3-year scheme) are available as 3-year, 4-year, and 5-year schemes.\n\nAarhus BSS is currently (2016) ranked no. 79 in the Financial Times ranking of business schools as well as no. 68 in the Master in Management ranking.\nAarhus University is ranked no. 97 on the Leiden Ranking, no. 86 on National Taiwan University Ranking, no. 65 on Shanghai Academic Ranking of World Universities (ARWU), no. 117 on QS World University Ranking and no. 98 on Times Higher Education World University Ranking.\n\nAarhus BSS holds the EFMD (European Foundation for Management Development) Equis accreditation, the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) and the Association of MBAs (AMBA). This makes the school one of the few to have the so-called Triple Crown accreditations.\n\nAarhus BSS is a member of PRME, the UN-funded network consisting of business schools and universities which are all committed to integrating a number of principles for sustainability and social responsibility into their research and educational activities. So far, more than 300 institutions of higher education have joined the network.\n\nThomas Pallesen is Dean of Aarhus BSS.\n\nThe school's Executive Team is formed by the Dean, the Vice-Dean for research and talent development, Per Baltzer Overgaard and the Vice-Dean for education, Peder Østergaard.\n\nAarhus BSS has a large network of alumni (former students) gathered in the network of AU Alumni, which aims at creating and maintaining relations between students, staff, faculty and alumni.\n\nNotable alumni:\n\n"}
{"id": "4806372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4806372", "title": "Alice Bush", "text": "Alice Bush\n\nAlice Mary Bush (7 August 1914 – 12 February 1974) was a pioneering New Zealand female physician, pediatrician and activist for family planning services and abortion access.\n\nBorn in 1914, Alice Stanton entered the Otago Medical School at the University of Otago, Dunedin, in 1933, and completed her MB and ChB in 1937. In 1938, she was appointed a Resident at the Auckland Hospital, and became visiting doctor at Auckland's Truby King Karitane Hospital and Mothercraft Care facility in the same year.\n\nIn the forties, Alice also became involved in medical politics. She co-authored a document that recommended \"A National Health Service\" (1943) for New Zealand, after she married William Bush in 1940. Alice also served as Secretary (1945-6) and President (1948, 1953) of the Auckland branch of the New Zealand Medical Women's Association. She joined the Royal Australasian College of Physicians (1946) and later became a fellow of the same organisation- the first women to do so (1955). In 1947, she spent some time in London, where she served as a doctor at the Hospital For Sick Children in that city, before returning to New Zealand with her husband, where she helped to establish the Pediatric Society of New Zealand in that same year.\n\nIn the late forties, Alice Bush also became involved with the New Zealand Family Planning Association, helping to provide respectability to an organisation that still proved controversial, given its role in publicising and distributing contraception. She served on its board (1947) and chaired its medical advisory committee (1960), before serving as liaison with the New Zealand Medical Association and clearing the way for clinic work with doctors before New Zealand approved use and distribution of the contraceptive pill (1961). Her role is chronicled in Helen Smythe's recent history of the Family Planning Association,Alice Bush's biographer, Faye Hercock, also noted that she was concerned about the rise in backstreet abortions and displayed considerable impatience with the conservatism of her male colleagues in her later years when it came to access to safe, legal and affordable abortion in New Zealand. Over time, Alice gradually radicalised her position and became one of the founders of the Abortion Law Reform Association of New Zealand. At the time she died, in 1974, the private Auckland Medical Aid Centre had just opened, providing a free-standing dedicated abortion clinic for the first time in New Zealand.\n\n"}
{"id": "11519062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11519062", "title": "Alma Doepel", "text": "Alma Doepel\n\nThe Alma Doepel is a three-masted topsail schooner and is one of the oldest such ships surviving.\n\n\"Alma Doepel\" was built in 1903 in Bellingen, NSW, by Frederick Doepel and named after his youngest daughter Alma. Until 1915 she operated between Sydney and the northern rivers district of New South Wales. In late 1915 she was sold to Tasmanian owners and commenced operation in Tasmania, mainly carrying timber and goods between Hobart and Melbourne. She was fitted with an auxiliary engine in 1916, and again in 1936. In a 1937 refit her rig was simplified from having square topsails on the foremast to having a fore-and-after rig. In 1943 she was requisitioned by the army, refitted and renamed AK82, and used as an army supply vessel running from Townsville and Darwin to Papua New Guinea. After the war she was reverted to merchant vessel configuration, resuming operation in Tasmania in 1946. From 1961 to 1975 she was stripped of her rigging and used to carry limestone, before being sold, for the scrap value of her engines, to the Melbourne company Sail & Adventure in 1976.\nFrom 1976 to 1987, \"Alma Doepel\" was comprehensively restored and returned to full sail in magnificent style to lead the Parade of Sail in Sydney Harbour in January 1988. She was then used as a sail training ship, based in Melbourne, until 1999 when the need for work on the hull and lack of funds put a stop to this activity. In April 2001, \"Alma Doepel\" was taken to Port Macquarie where she was berthed at Lady Nelson Wharf and open to the public as a static exhibit. In January 2009 the \"Alma Doepel\" returned to Melbourne. She is berthed at No 2 Victoria Dock (Melbourne) undergoing an extensive refit to return her to survey so she can recommence sail training.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1695", "title": "Amazons", "text": "Amazons\n\nIn Greek mythology, the Amazons (, ', singular , ') were a tribe of women warriors related to Scythians and Sarmatians. Apollonius Rhodius, at Argonautica, mentions that Amazons were the daughters of Ares and Harmonia (a nymph of the Akmonian Wood). They were brutal and aggressive, and their main concern in life was war.\n\nHerodotus and Strabo place them on the banks of the Thermodon, while Diodorus giving the account of Dionysius of Mitylene, who, on his part, drew on Thymoetas, states that before the Amazons of the Thermodon there were, much earlier in time, the Amazons of Libya. These Amazons started from Libya, passed through Egypt and Syria, and stopped at the Caïcus in Aeolis, near which they founded several cities. Later, he says, they established Mytilene a little way beyond the Caïcus. Aeschylus, in Prometheus Bound, places the original home of the Amazons in the country about Lake Maeotis and they later moved to Themiscyra on the Thermodon. Homer tells that the Amazons were sought and found somewhere near Lycia.\n\nNotable queens of the Amazons are Penthesilea, who participated in the Trojan War, and her sister Hippolyta, whose magical girdle, given to her by her father Ares, was the object of one of the labours of Heracles. Diodorus mentions that the Amazons traveled from Libya under Queen Myrina. Amazon warriors were often depicted in battle with Greek warriors in amazonomachies in classical art.\n\nArchaeological discoveries of burial sites with female warriors on the Eurasian steppes suggest that the Scythian women may have inspired the myth. From the early modern period, their name has become a term for female warriors in general. Amazons were said to have founded the cities and temples of Smyrna, Sinope, Cyme, Gryne, Ephesus, Pitania, Magnesia, Clete, Pygela, Latoreria and Amastris; according to legend, the Amazons also invented the cavalry.\n\nPalaephatus, who was trying to rationalize the Greek myths in his work \"On Unbelievable Tales\" or \"On Incredible Tales\" (), stated that the Amazons most probably were men mistaken for women by their enemies because they wore clothing which reached their feet, tied up their hair in headbands and shaved their beards, and also, since they did not exist during his time, most probably they did nοt exist in the past either.\n\nThe origin of the word is uncertain. It may be derived from an Iranian ethnonym \"*ha-mazan-\" \"warriors\", a word attested indirectly through a derivation, a denominal verb in Hesychius of Alexandria's gloss (\"\"\": 'to make war' in Persian\"), where it appears together with the Indo-Iranian root \"*kar-\" \"make\" (from which Sanskrit \"karma\" is also derived).\n\nIt may also be derived from \"\" \"manless, without husbands\" (\"a-\" privative and a derivation of \"*man-\" also found in Slavic \"muzh\") has been proposed, an explanation deemed \"unlikely\" by Hjalmar Frisk. 19th-century scholarship also connected the term to the ethnonym Amazigh. A further explanation proposes Iranian *\"ama-janah\" \"virility-killing\" as source.\n\nAmong Classical Greeks, \"amazon\" was given a folk etymology as originating from ' () and ' (), \"without breast\", connected with an etiological tradition once claimed by Marcus Justinus who alleged that Amazons had their right breast cut off or burnt out. There is no indication of such a practice in ancient works of art, in which the Amazons are always represented with both breasts, although one is frequently covered. Adrienne Mayor suggests the origin of this myth was due to the word's etymology.\n\nGreeks also used some descriptive phrases for them. Herodotus used the \"Androktones\" (, singular , ') (\"killers of men\") and \"Androleteirai\" (, singular , ') (\"destroyers of men, murderesses\"), in the Iliad they are also called \"Antianeirai\" (, singular , \"\") (\"against men\") and Aeschylus, in his work \"Prometheus Bound\", used \"styganor\" () (\"those who loathe all men\").\n\nHerodotus and Strabo placed them on the banks of the Thermodon and Themiscyra. Herodotus also mentions that some Amazons lived at Scythia because after the Greeks defeated the Amazons in battle, they sailed away carrying in three ships as many Amazons as they had been able to take alive, but out at sea the Amazons attacked the crews and killed them, then these Amazons landed at Scythian lands. Strabo writes that the original home of the Amazons was in Themiscyra and the plains about Thermodon and the mountains that lie above them, but were later driven out of these places, and during his time they were said to live in the mountains above Caucasian Albania (not to be confused with the modern Albania), but he also states that some others, among them Metrodorus of Scepsis and Hypsicrates, say that after Themiscyra, the Amazons traveled and lived on the borders of the Gargarians, in the northerly foothills of those parts of the Caucasian Mountains which are called Ceraunian. Diodorus giving the account of Dionysius of Mitylene, who, on his part, drew on Thymoetas states that before the Amazons of the Thermodon there were, much earlier in time, the Amazons of Libya. These Amazons started from Libya passed through Egypt and Syria, and stopped at the Caïcus in Aeolis, near which they founded several cities. Later, he says, they established Mitylene a little way beyond the Caïcus. Aeschylus, in \"Prometheus Bound\", places the original home of the Amazons in the country about Lake Maeotis and they later moved to Themiscyra on the Thermodon. According to Pseudo-Plutarch, the Amazons lived in and about the Tanais () river (modern Don river), formerly called the Amazonian or Amazon () river, because the Amazons bathed themselves therein. The Amazons later moved to Themiscyra (speculated to be modern Terme, though no ruins exist) on the River Thermodon (the Terme river in northern Turkey).\nPlutarch mentions that the campaign(s) of Heracles and Theseus against the Amazons was at Euxine Sea (modern Black Sea). Homer tells that the Amazons were sought and found somewhere near Lycia.\nThe Amazons were supposed to have founded many towns, amongst them Smyrna, Ephesus, Cyme, Myrina, Sinope, Paphos, Mitylene. At Patmos there was a place called Amazonium. Also, on the island of Lemnos, there was another Myrina. The cities of Myrina had this name after the amazon Myrina.\n\nApollonius Rhodius, at Argonautica, mentions that at Thermodon the Amazons were not gathered together in one city, but scattered over the land, parted into three tribes. In one part dwelt the Themiscyreians (), in another the Lycastians (), and in another the Chadesians ().\n\nGreeks also used other descriptive phrases for them. Herodotus used the \"Androktones\" (, singular , ') (\"killers/slayers of men\") and \"Androleteirai\" (, singular , ') (\"destroyers of men, murderesses\"), in the Iliad they are also called \"Antianeirai\" (, singular , \"\") (\"equivalent to men\") and Aeschylus used the \"Styganor\" () (\"those who loathe all men\") in his work Prometheus Bound.\n\nHerodotus stated that in the Scythian language they were called \"Oiorpata\", \"oior\" meaning \"man\", and \"pata\" meaning \"to slay\".\n\nIn some versions of the myth, no men were permitted to have sexual encounters or reside in Amazon country; but once a year, in order to prevent their race from dying out, they visited the Gargareans, a neighbouring tribe.\n\nStrabo, giving credits to Metrodorus of Scepsis and Hypsicrates, mentions that at his time the Amazons were believed to live on the borders of the Gargareans. There were two special months in the spring in which they would go up into the neighboring mountain which separates them and the Gargareans. The Gargareans also, in accordance with an ancient custom, would go there to offer sacrifice with the Amazons and also to have intercourse with them for the sake of begetting children. They did this in secrecy and darkness, any Gargareans at random with any Amazon, and after making them pregnant they would send them away. Any females that were born are retained by the Amazons themselves, but the males would be taken to the Gargareans to be brought up; and each Gargarean to whom a child is brought would adopt the child as his own, regarding the child as his son because of his uncertainty. He also stated that the Gargareans went up from Themiscyra into this region with the Amazons, then, in company with some Thracians and Euboeans who had wandered thus far, waged war against them. They later ended the war against the Amazons and made a compact that they should have dealings with one another only in the matter of children, and that each people should live independent of the other.\nIn addition, he states that the right breasts of all Amazons are seared when they are infants, so that they can easily use their right arm for every needed purpose, and especially that of throwing the javelin and use the bow.\nHerodotus mentions that when Greeks defeated the Amazons at war, they sailed away carrying in three ships as many Amazons as they had been able to take alive, but out at sea the Amazons attacked the crews and killed them. But the Amazons knew nothing about ships so they were driven about by waves and winds and they were disembarked at the land of the Scythians, there they met first with a troop of horses feeding, they seized them and mounted upon these they plundered the property of the Scythians. The Scythians were not able to understand them because they did not know either their speech or their dress or the race to which they belonged, and they thought that they were men. Scythians fought a battle against them, and after the battle the Scythians got possession of the bodies of the dead, and thus they discovered that they were women. After the battle Scythians sent young men and told them to encamp near the Amazons and to do whatsoever they should do. If the women should come after them, they were not to fight but to retire before them, and when the women stopped, they were to approach near and encamp. This plan was adopted by the Scythians because they desired to have children born from them. When the Amazons perceived that they had not come to do them any harm, they let them alone; and the two camps approached nearer to one another every day: and the young men, like the Amazons, had nothing except their arms and their horses and got their living, as the Amazons did, by hunting and by taking booty. One day a Scythian and an Amazon came close. They could not speak to each other because they were speaking different languages but the Amazon made signs to him with her hand to come. Later the young Scythians and the Amazons joined their camps and lived together, each man having for his wife her with whom he had had dealings at first. The men were not able to learn the language of the Amazons, but the women learned Scythian.\nApollonius Rhodius, at Argonautica, mentions that Amazons were the daughters of Ares and Harmonia (a nymph of the Akmonian Wood). They were brutal and aggressive, and their main concern in life was war. According to him, the Amazons were not gathered together in one city, but scattered over the land, parted into three tribes. In one part dwelt the Themiscyreians (), in another the Lycastians (), and in another the Chadesians (). Also, he mention that on an island, the Queens of the Amazons, Otrere () and Antiope (), built a marble temple of Ares. On this desert island there were ravening birds, which in countless numbers haunt it. The island mentioned is the Aretias. Argonauts passed by Themiscyra on their journey to Colchis. Zeus sent Boreas (the North Wind), and with his help the Argonauts stood out from the shore near Themiscyra where the Themiscyreian Amazons were arming for battle.\n\nThe King Iobates sent Bellerophon against Amazons, hoping that they would kill him, but Bellerophon killed them all.\n\nThe Amazons appear in Greek art of the Archaic period and in connection with several Greek legends. The tomb of Myrine is mentioned in the \"Iliad\"; later interpretation made of her an Amazon: according to Diodorus,\n\nAccording to Diodorus, the Amazons under the rule of Queen Myrina, invaded the lands of the Atlantians. Amazons defeated the army of the Atlantian city of Cerne, treated the captives savagely, killed all the men, led into slavery the children and women, and razed the city. When the terrible fate of the inhabitants of Cerne became known among the other Atlantians, they were struck with terror, surrendered their cities on terms of capitulation and announced that they would do whatever should be commanded them. Queen Myrina bearing herself honourably towards the Atlantians, established friendship with them and founded a city to bear her name in place of the city of Cerne which had been razed; and in it she settled both the captives and any native who so desired. Atlantians presented her with magnificent presents and by public decree voted to her notable honours, and she in return accepted their courtesy and in addition promised that she would show kindness to their nation. Diodorus also mentions that the Amazons of Queen Myrina used the skins of gigantic snakes, from Libya, to protect themselves at battle. Later Queen Myrine led her Amazons to victory against the Gorgons. After the battle against the Gorgons, Myrina accorded a funeral to her fallen comrades on three pyres and raised up three great heaps of earth as tombs, which are called \"Amazon Mounds\" ().\n\nOne of the tasks imposed upon Hercules by Eurystheus was to obtain possession of the girdle of the Amazonian queen Hippolyta. He was accompanied by his friend Theseus, who carried off the princess Antiope, sister of Hippolyta, an incident which led to a retaliatory invasion of Attica, in which Antiope perished fighting by the side of Theseus. In some versions, however, Theseus marries Hippolyta and in others, he marries Antiope and she does not die; by this marriage with the Amazon Theseus had a son Hippolytus. \nIn another version of this myth, Theseus made this voyage on his own account, after the time of Heracles.\nThe battle between the Athenians and Amazons is often commemorated in an entire genre of art, amazonomachy, in marble bas-reliefs such as from the Parthenon or the sculptures of the Mausoleum of Halicarnassus.\nPlutarch, in his work Parallel Lives-The Life of Theseus, mentions that Bion said that the Amazons, were naturally friendly to men, and did not fly from Theseus when he touched upon their coasts.\n\nAmazons attacked the Phrygians, who were assisted by Priam, then a young man. In his later years, however, towards the end of the Trojan War, his old opponents took his side against the Greeks under their queen Penthesilea \"of Thracian birth\", who was slain by Achilles.\n\nThe god Dionysus and his entourage fought the amazons at Ephesus, the Amazons fled to Samos, but Dionysus pursued them and at Samos he killed a great number of them on a spot which was, from that occurrence, called Panaema (), which means blood-soaked field. In another myth Dionysus united with the Amazons to fight against Cronus and the Titans.\n\nThe Amazons are also said to have undertaken an expedition against the island of Leuke, at the mouth of the Danube, where the ashes of Achilles had been deposited by Thetis. The ghost of the dead hero appeared and so terrified the horses, that they threw and trampled upon the invaders, who were forced to retire. Pompey is said to have found them in the army of Mithridates.\n\nThey are heard of in the time of Alexander, when some of the king's biographers make mention of Amazon Queen Thalestris visiting him and becoming a mother by him (the story is known from the \"Alexander Romance\"). However, several other biographers of Alexander dispute the claim, including the highly regarded secondary source, Plutarch. In his writing he makes mention of a moment when Alexander's secondary naval commander, Onesicritus, was reading the Amazon passage of his Alexander history to King Lysimachus of Thrace who was on the original expedition: the king smiled at him and said \"And where was I, then?\"\n\nThe Roman writer Virgil's characterization of the Volscian warrior maiden Camilla in the \"Aeneid\" borrows heavily from the myth of the Amazons.\n\nJordanes' \"Getica\" (), purporting to give the earliest history of the Goths, relates that the Goths' ancestors, descendants of Magog, originally dwelt within Scythia, on the Sea of Azov between the Dnieper and Don Rivers. After a few centuries, following an incident where the Goths' women successfully fended off a raid by a neighboring tribe, while the menfolk were off campaigning against Pharaoh Vesosis, the women formed their own army under Marpesia and crossed the Don, invading Asia. Her sister Lampedo remained in Europe to guard the homeland. They procreated with men once a year. These Amazons conquered Armenia, Syria, and all of Asia Minor, even reaching Ionia and Aeolia, holding this vast territory for 100 years. Jordanes also mentions that they fought with Hercules, and in the Trojan War, and that a smaller contingent of them endured in the Caucasus Mountains until the time of Alexander. He mentions by name the Queens Menalippe, Hippolyta, and Penthesilea.\n\nIn the Grottaferrata Version of \"Digenes Akritas\", the twelfth century medieval epic of Basil, the Greek-Syrian knight of the Byzantine frontier, the hero battles with and kills the female warrior Maximo.\n\n\nThere are several (conflicting) lists of names of Amazons.\n\nOther names of Amazons from various sources include:\n\n\nAccording to ancient sources (Plutarch, Theseus, Pausanias), Amazon tombs could be found frequently throughout what was once known as the ancient Greek world. Some are found in Megara, Athens, Chaeronea, Chalcis, Thessaly at Skotousa, in Cynoscephalae, and statues of Amazons are all over Greece. Stephanus of Byzantium, quoting Ephorus, mention that the tomb of the amazon Anaea () was at the city of Anaea (), which also has this name after the amazon.\n\nAt both Chalcis and Athens, Plutarch tells us that there was an Amazoneum or shrine of Amazons that implied the presence of both tombs and cult. At the entrance of Athens there was a monument to the Amazon Antiope. On the day before the Thesea at Athens there were annual sacrifices to the Amazons. In historical times Greek maidens of Ephesus performed an annual circular dance with weapons and shields that had been established by Hippolyta and her Amazons. They had initially set up wooden statues of Artemis, a \"bretas\" (Pausanias, (): \"Description of Greece\", Book I: Attica).\n\nIn works of art, battles between Amazons and Greeks are placed on the same level as – and often associated with – battles of Greeks and centaurs. The belief in their existence, however, having been once accepted and introduced into the national poetry and art, it became necessary to surround them as far as possible with the appearance of natural beings. Amazons were therefore depicted in the manner of Scythian or Sarmatian horsemen. Their occupation was hunting and war; their arms the bow, spear, axe, a half shield, nearly in the shape of a crescent, called \"pelta\", and in early art a helmet. The model in the Greek mind had apparently been the goddess Athena. In later art they approach the model of Artemis, wearing a thin dress, girt high for speed; while on the later painted vases their dress is often peculiarly Persian – that is, close-fitting trousers and a high cap called the \"kidaris\". They were usually on horseback but sometimes on foot.\nThis depiction of Amazons demonstrates just how closely, in the Greek mind, the Amazons were linked to the Scythians. Their manner of dress has been noted to bear a striking similarity to the traditional dress of nomadic peoples from the Crimea to Mongolia. Amazons were described by Herodotus as wearing trousers and having tall stiff caps. The double-sided axe was the most emblematic of their weapons. Amazons can also be identified in vase paintings by the fact that they are wearing one earring. The battle between Theseus and the Amazons (Amazonomachy) is a favourite subject on the friezes of temples (e.g. the reliefs from the frieze of the Temple of Apollo at Bassae, now in the British Museum), vases and sarcophagus reliefs; at Athens it was represented on the shield of the statue of Athena Parthenos, on wall-paintings in the Theseum and in the \"Stoa Poikile\". There were also three standard Amazon statue types.\n\nLater in the Renaissance, as Amazon myth evolved, artists started to depict warrior women in a new light. Queen Elizabeth was often thought of as an Amazon-like warrior during her reign and was sometimes depicted as such. Though, as explained in \"Divinia Viagro\" by Winfried Schleiner, Celeste T. Wright \"has given a detailed account of the bad press Amazons had in the Renaissance (with respect to their unwomanly conduct and Scythian cruelty). She notes that she has not found any Elizabethans comparing the queen directly to an Amazon, and suggests that they might have hesitated to do so because of the association of Amazons with enfranchisement of women, which was considered contemptible.\"\n\nPeter Paul Rubens and Jan Brueghel depicted the Battle of the Amazons around 1598, showing many attributes of Renaissance-styled paintings. Amazons also appear in the Rococo period in another painting titled \"Battle of the Amazons\" by Johann Georg Platzer. As a part of the Romantic period revival, German artist Anselm Feuerbach painted the Amazons as well. His paintings “engendered all the aspirations of the Romantics: their desire to transcend the boundaries of the ego and of the known world; their interest in the occult in nature and in the soul; their search for a national identity, and the ensuing search for the mythic origins of the Germanic nation; finally, their wish to escape the harsh realities of the present through immersion in an idealized past.”\n\nHerodotus reported that the Sarmatians were descendants of Amazons and Scythians, and that their wives observed their ancient maternal customs, \"frequently hunting on horseback with their husbands; in war taking the field; and wearing the very same dress as the men\". Moreover, said Herodotus, \"No girl shall wed till she has killed a man in battle\". In the story related by Herodotus, a group of Amazons was blown across the Maeotian Lake (the Sea of Azov) into Scythia near the cliff region (today's southeastern Crimea). After learning the Scythian language, they agreed to marry Scythian men, on the condition that they not be required to follow the customs of Scythian women. According to Herodotus, this band moved toward the northeast, settling beyond the Tanais (Don) river, and became the ancestors of the Sauromatians. According to Herodotus, the Sarmatians fought with the Scythians against Darius the Great in the 5th century BC.\n\nHippocrates describes them as: \"They have no right breasts...for while they are yet babies their mothers make red-hot a bronze instrument constructed for this very purpose and apply it to the right breast and cauterize it, so that its growth is arrested, and all its strength and bulk are diverted to the right shoulder and right arm.\"\n\nAmazons came to play a role in Roman historiography. Caesar reminded the Senate of the conquest of large parts of Asia by Semiramis and the Amazons. Successful Amazon raids against Lycia and Cilicia contrasted with effective resistance by Lydian cavalry against the invaders (Strabo 5.504; Nicholas Damascenus). Gnaeus Pompeius Trogus pays particularly detailed attention to the Amazons. The story of the Amazons as deriving from a Cappadocian colony of two Scythian princes Ylinos and Scolopetos is due to him. Pliny the Elder records some surprising facts pointing to the valley of the Terme River as possibly being their home: a mountain named for them (the modern Mason Dagi), as well as a settlement Amazonium; Herodotus (VI.86) first mentions their capital Themiscyra, which Pliny locates near the Terme. Philostratus places the Amazons in the Taurus Mountains. Ammianus places them east of Tanais, as neighbouring the Alans. Procopius places them in the Caucasus. Diodorus Siculus (\"Bibliotheca historica\" III, chapter 52) mentioned that besides Pontus Amazons existed much older race (at that time entirely disappeared) of Amazons from western Libya, and retells their mythological story which includes Atlantis and Greek mythology.\n\nAlthough Strabo shows skepticism as to their historicity, the Amazons in general continue to be taken as historical throughout Late Antiquity. Several Church Fathers speak of the Amazons as of a real people. Solinus embraces the account of Pliny. Under Aurelianus, captured Gothic women were identified as Amazons (Claudianus). The account of Justinus was influential, and was used as a source by Orosius who continued to be read during the European Middle Ages. Medieval authors thus continue the tradition of locating the Amazons in the North, Adam of Bremen placing them at the Baltic Sea and Paulus Diaconus in the heart of Germania.\n\nAmazons continued to be discussed by authors of the European Renaissance, and with the Age of Exploration, they were located in ever more remote areas. In 1542, Francisco de Orellana reached the Amazon River (\"Amazonas\" in Spanish), naming it after a tribe of warlike women he claimed to have encountered and fought on the Nhamundá River, a tributary of the Amazon. Afterwards the whole basin and region of the Amazon (\"Amazônia\" in Portuguese, \"Amazonía\" in Spanish) were named after the river. Amazons also figure in the accounts of both Christopher Columbus and Walter Raleigh. Famous medieval traveller John Mandeville mentions them in his book:\n\nMedieval and Renaissance authors credit the Amazons with the invention of the battle-axe. This is probably related to the \"sagaris\", an axe-like weapon associated with both Amazons and Scythian tribes by Greek authors (see also Thracian tomb of Aleksandrovo kurgan). Paulus Hector Mair expresses astonishment that such a \"manly weapon\" should have been invented by a \"tribe of women\", but he accepts the attribution out of respect for his authority, Johannes Aventinus.\n\nAriosto's \"Orlando Furioso\" contains a country of warrior women, ruled by Queen Orontea; the epic describes an origin much like that in Greek myth, in that the women, abandoned by a band of warriors and unfaithful lovers, rallied together to form a nation from which men were severely reduced, to prevent them from regaining power. The Amazons and Queen Hippolyta are also referenced in Geoffrey Chaucer's \"Canterbury Tales\" in \"The Knight's Tale\".\n\nClassicist Peter Walcot wrote, \"Wherever the Amazons are located by the Greeks, whether it is somewhere along the Black Sea in the distant north-east, or in Libya in the furthest south, it is always beyond the confines of the civilized world. The Amazons exist outside the range of normal human experience.\"\n\nNevertheless, there are various proposals for a historical nucleus of the Amazons of Greek historiography, the most obvious candidates being historical Scythia and Sarmatia in line with the account by Herodotus, but some authors prefer a comparison to cultures of Asia Minor or even Minoan Crete.\n\nSpeculation that the idea of Amazons contains a core of reality is based on archaeological findings from burials, pointing to the possibility that some Sarmatian women may have participated in battle. These findings have led scholars to suggest that the Amazonian legend in Greek mythology may have been \"inspired by real warrior women\".\n\nEvidence of high-ranking warrior women comes from kurgans in southern Ukraine and Russia.\nDavid Anthony notes, \"About 20% of Scythian-Sarmatian 'warrior graves' on the lower Don and lower Volga contained women dressed for battle similar to how men dress, a phenomenon that probably inspired the Greek tales about the Amazons.\"\nUp to 25% of military burials were of armed Sarmatian women usually including bows. Russian archaeologist Vera Kovalevskaya points out that when Scythian men were away fighting or hunting, nomadic women would have to be able to defend themselves, their animals and pasture-grounds competently. During the time that the Scythians advanced into Asia and achieved near-hegemony in the Near East, there was a period of twenty-eight years when the men would have been away on campaigns for long periods. During this time the women would not only have had to defend themselves, but to reproduce, and this could well be the origin of the idea that Amazons mated once a year with their neighbours, if Herodotus actually based his accounts on fact.\n\nBefore modern archaeology uncovered some of the Scythian burials of warrior-maidens entombed under kurgans in the region of Altai Mountains and Sarmatia,\n\nWhen Minoan archeology was still in its infancy, nevertheless, a theory raised in an essay regarding the Amazons contributed by Lewis Richard Farnell and John Myres to Robert Ranulph Marett's \"Anthropology and the Classics\" (1908), placed their possible origins in Minoan civilization, drawing attention to overlooked similarities between the two cultures. According to Myres, the tradition interpreted in the light of evidence furnished by supposed Amazon cults seems to have been very similar and may have even originated in Minoan culture. \n\nFrancisco de Orellana gave the Amazon river its name after reporting pitched battles with tribes of female warriors, whom he likened to the Amazons.\n\nThe city of Samsun in modern-day Turkey features a recently constructed \"Amazon Village\" museum, created to bring attention to the legacy of the Amazons and to generate both academic interest and popular tourism. A festival is also held every year in the Terme district of Samsun Province to celebrate the Amazons.\n\nIn Greece, female equestrians are also called \"Amazons\" ().\n\nAmazons became an important subject of the fine arts around 1900, especially in the work of the Munich painter and sculptor Franz Stuck (1863-1928). \n\nIn Nazi-Germany open air events called \"Nacht der Amazonen\" (Night of the Amazons) were performed at Nymphenburg Palace in Munich between 1936 and 1939. These revues with bare-breasted girls presented an allegedly emancipated female role as part of the „new race“ intended to be realized by racial fanatics. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20223272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20223272", "title": "Ardis Herrold", "text": "Ardis Herrold\n\nArdis Herrold is a former astronomy and earth sciences educator at Grosse Pointe North High School. She received her undergraduate degree from the University of Michigan with a Bachelor of Science in geology. She went on to earn her master's degree in general science from Eastern Michigan University. Ardis Herrold is a former president of the Michigan Earth Science Teachers Association and is the adviser of Grosse Pointe North's radio astronomy team (<nowiki>'</nowiki>\"RATS\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>). The Grosse Pointe North High School <nowiki>'</nowiki>\"RATS\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>, under Ardis Herrold's advisory, are credited as being the first high school group to build its own radio telescope from scratch in the United States. Ardis Herrold also works in the education and outreach division of the Spitzer Space Telescope Research Program. In 2005, she was selected as science fair \"Teacher of the Year\" for her support of the \"Science and Engineering Fair of Metro Detroit\". Ardis Herrold has been the teacher sponsor of eleven International Science and Engineering Fair finalists.\n\n"}
{"id": "51801762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51801762", "title": "BIOSTEC", "text": "BIOSTEC\n\nThe International Joint Conference on Biomedical Engineering Systems and Technologies - BIOSTEC - is an international joint conference composed of five co-located conferences each specialized in a different knowledge area:\n\n\nThis joint conference is held annually and it seems to be interested in the dissemination of the novelties in the topics covered by its sub-conferences.\n\nBIOSTEC had its first edition in 2008 counting with the participation of some keynote speakers like Kevin Warwick. Since then, several names have been invited to deliver keynotes to the BIOSTEC attendees. Among them: David Rose (MIT Media Lab, United States), Bradley Nelson, (ETH Zurich, Switzerland), Edward H. Shortliffe, (Arizona State University, United States), José C. Príncipe (University of Florida, United States), Alberto Cliquet Jr (University of São Paulo & University of Campinas, Brazil), Tanja Schultz (University of Bremen, Germany) e Vimla L. Patel, (Arizona State University, United States).\n\nBesides the presentation of invited talks, the BIOSTEC conferences are composed by different kind of sessions like poster sessions, technical sessions, tutorials, special sessions, workshops, doctoral consortiums, panels and industrial tracks. The papers presented in the conference are made available at the SCITEPRESS digital library, published in the conference proceedings and some of the best papers are invited to a post-publication with Springer.<br>\n<br>\nThe 2019 edition of the conference will be held in cooperation with EAMBES and SGBT.\n<br>\n\n"}
{"id": "919316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=919316", "title": "Beijing Forestry University", "text": "Beijing Forestry University\n\nBeijing Forestry University (BFU, or BJFU) () is a university in Haidian District, Beijing focusing on forestry.\n\nIt is an environmentally friendly university sharing knowledge of sciences, engineering, laws, arts and languages to the world. It is one of the Project 211 universities (top 100 China's universities in the 21st century), and it provides a wide range of courses, such as Artificial Intelligence, Automation, Biology, Computer science, Economics, Electronics, Environmental Science, Forestry, Languages, Laws, Management, Mathematics, Physics and Psychology, to students. To share its environmental friendly mind to the world, the university is now providing modern technologies for people to protect the earth.\n\nIt was ranked 281 in Asia by the QS World University Rankings: Asia 2018. It is a Chinese Ministry of Education Double First Class Discipline University, with Double First Class status in certain disciplines.\n\nBeijing Forestry University was founded as the Forestry Department of the Imperial University of Peking in 1902. In 1952, it had become an institute and was renamed as Beijing Institute of Forestry. In 1985, it was renamed as Beijing Forestry University, and it started to focus on a wide range of new subjects, including Electronics, Computer Science, Psychology, Economics, etc. Now it has 14 schools providing more than 60 undergraduate taught programs, more than 120 postgraduate master programs and more than 40 Ph.D. programs to students.\n\nThe university has 14 schools:\n\nSince its establishment over 50 years ago, more than 30,000 Chinese and a number of foreign students have graduated from Beijing Forestry University. Of that number, 11 have attained the position of academician. The university faculty consists of 956 full-time teachers, including five academicians and 496 full and associate professors. While upholding traditional disciplines, the university has also established a large number of new disciplines to meet society's needs. The university consists of 15 schools; the graduate school, biological science and technology, landscape architecture, forestry, environmental science and engineering, soil and water conservation, industry, information science, material science and technology, science, conservation, economic management, humanities and social sciences, foreign languages, vocational training and continuing education.\n\nThe university features a computer center, a computer network center, an educational center, an audio-visual teaching center, a biological center, a micro-technology center, a forest-organism center and a tree farm for teaching and research (the Jiu Feng National Forest Park). Attached to the university are the Foreign-Language Training Center of the State Forestry Administration, the Research Center of Soil Control Technology of Loess Plateau in China and the Training Center of Desertification Control of China. BFU is a well-equipped institution, featuring the Central Building of Teaching, a gymnasium, laboratories, and a high-speed campus network. A computerized checking system exists for library books, and also in the library building is the Imported Teaching Materials Center for forestry universities and colleges nationwide. Construction of a high-rise student apartment building and a new classroom building was completed in 2001.\n\nIn recent years, nearly 200 discoveries in scientific research received awards from national, provincial and ministerial authorities, and more than 20 achievements of teaching were rewarded by the national and municipal governments. BFU is engaged in international academic exchanges and cooperation with more than 150 universities and research institutions in over 20 countries, providing opportunities for contacts between China and the outside world in the fields of forestry and environmental studies.\n\nBFU provides an atmosphere for teaching and learning, combining the acquisition of professional knowledge with an improvement of all-round abilities (with an emphasis on forging a rigorous, creative academic style). Systems of optional courses, subsidiary courses, course exemption, and bachelor-to-master continuing education have been established so students may develop according to their own interests and desires. The university also offers extracurricular activities to enrich campus life; these are organized by student societies and associations in fields including science and technology, art, sports, environmental protection, and politics. Some groups have become influential, including the Society of Scientific Exploration and Wilderness Survival and the Association of Beijing College Volunteers for Environmental Protection. The former received the Prize of the Earth, the top prize from the National Bureau of Environmental Protection. In recent years, BFU students of BFU won four consecutive prizes at the College Students' Landscape Gardening Architecture Design Competitions (sponsored by UNESCO and the International Association of Landscape Gardening Architects), the Golden Prize in International College Students' Architecture Design and prizes in garden-design competitions. Achievements were also earned in domestic competitions for scientific inventions, mathematics, and art.\n\nNotable alumni include:\n\n"}
{"id": "39484341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39484341", "title": "Charles D'Angelo", "text": "Charles D'Angelo\n\nCharles D'Angelo (born October 24, 1985) is an American weight loss and personal development coach. He is the author of the self-help books \"Think and Grow Thin\" and \"Inner Guru\".\n\nD'Angelo grew up in St. Louis, Missouri. At one point as a teenager, he was 6'4\" inches (1.93 m) tall and weighed . He was frightened that he might be going blind from type-2 diabetes and was regularly bullied about his weight. In 2003, at the age of 17, he saved up to join a gym, but was denied membership because his family didn't have a credit card. Instead, by putting himself on a regular exercise schedule and consistent diet plan, and studying psychology and self-help books, he was able to lose 160 pounds over the following 2 years. He then began lifting weights to develop muscle. While attending St. Louis University, he was invited to speak about his weight loss to groups in St. Louis.\n\nAs he entered college, D'Angelo founded a weight-loss and life coaching program in St. Louis. D'Angelo's weight loss program revolves around what he calls the \"three-legged stool\": healthy eating, regular exercise and developing a strategic mindset, with a goal-oriented focus. D'Angelo recommends that clients prioritize healthy eating and exercise and that they work out at least five times a week, create a sustainable plan, and keep exercise fun. In order to separate food from emotion, clients eat the same healthy meals every day for two weeks at a time, consisting of breakfast followed by small meals every two-to-three hours. D'Angelo also works with his clients to help them develop and achieve life goals.\n\nIn addition to clients in North America, Europe and Australia, D'Angelo has a number of famous clients, include actress Angela Bassett, Missouri Senator Claire McCaskill, former Missouri Secretary of State Robin Carnahan and former Speaker of the Missouri House Catherine Hanaway.\n\nD'Angelo's weight loss guide, \"Think and Grow Thin\", was published on January 16, 2012. The book presents an 88-day weight loss plan. He worked on it for five years, starting when he was a student at St. Louis University. It was endorsed by Bill Clinton as one of Clinton's three favorite diet books of 2012; he wrote a blurb for the book after D'Angelo successfully coached several of Clinton's friends. It has also been endorsed by Tony Robbins and Richard Simmons.\n\nD'Angelo's second book, \"Inner Guru\", was published in 2017, with a foreword by Larry King, and endorsement from Mark Hyman, MD. The self-improvement book encourages readers to improve their lives by changing the way they think, with a focus on identifying and breaking negative patterns in their lives. It also tells stories of D'Angelo's clients who have had success losing and keeping off large amounts of weight.\n\nD'Angelo has appeared on \"Larry King Live\" and \"The Doctors\" with stories of past clients who have lost a lot of weight.\n\nD'Angelo lives in St. Louis, Missouri, with his wife Crystal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "952902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=952902", "title": "Cheaters (film)", "text": "Cheaters (film)\n\nCheaters is an HBO movie released in 2000 that chronicles the story of the 1994–1995 Steinmetz High School team that cheated in the United States Academic Decathlon (USAD). It is based on a true story. The movie was filmed in Toronto and Chicago.\n\nStudents at Steinmetz High School are less than enthusiastic about anything in the classroom, except for Jolie Fitch, a junior who enjoys Dr. Jerry Plecki's English class and is involved heavily in all discussions, especially on his favorite book \"Paradise Lost\". Dr. Plecki is offered the position of Academic Decathlon coach, a job all the other teachers consider to be a waste of time for them as well as the students. Dr. Plecki holds an open call for the students after class, but no one arrives to participate. He is about to leave for the day when Jolie comes in and convinces him that he needs to look for the smarter students and recruit them. He succeeds in recruiting seven students (Darius, Matt, Paul, Dominik, Irwin, Agnieska, and Jolie). They spend the next few months studying hard for the regional competition. \n\nAt regionals, the team faces their biggest competitor in Whitney Young Magnet High School, who have consistently won the regional and state competitions for almost a decade. As expected, Whitney Young is victorious and Steinmetz places 5th overall, but still high enough to qualify for the state competition. Overwhelmed by the thought of facing Whitney Young in the next round, the students begin to feel that the whole decathlon is a waste of their time. However, an opportunity arises when Matt's friend steals a copy of the test for the state finals and gives it to him. Irwin then brings it to Dr. Plecki, who feels that using the test is the team's best chance to defeat Whitney Young at state. \n\nAfter some persuasion, all seven members agree to dismiss their conflicting feelings about cheating and begin copying the answers on various items (calculators, shoes, a piece of gum, etc.). Dr. Plecki then tells Irwin privately that because he had the lowest scores in the group, he will be out of the state competition; however, he will be guaranteed a spot in nationals. Though Irwin is upset by the news, he agrees to go along with it.\n\nAt the state finals, a much more confident Steinmetz meets Whitney Young again. The team successfully gets through the exams with the answers they secretly wrote down and with Jolie coaching them in the Super Quiz. At the end of the day, Steinmetz wins the state finals with an overall score of 49,000, raising the ire and suspicions of Whitney Young who resolve to investigate.\n\nAs Steinmetz celebrates their victory, a spiteful Irwin writes an essay, detailing how he feels betrayed by Dr. Plecki and how they received an advance copy of the test. Suspicions heighten when the essay is turned in to the principal, who questions Irwin about the truth of his writing. The Illinois Academic Decathlon board arrives at the school with news that the team will need to take a re-test to validate their scores, noting that their state score was nearly 10,000 points higher than their regional score. If they refuse, they will lose their championship. Feeling betrayed by Irwin and angered by the board's ultimatum, they refuse to cooperate and plan to seek an injunction to halt the state from re-testing them.\n\nAs the media siege becomes more and more brutal, Angela Lam, a student on the Academic Decathlon team from the year before, talks to the press about how she was given the answers to the Super Quiz in the state competition by Dr. Plecki. She encourages the current team members to come clean if they cheated. Dr. Plecki is immediately suspended from his teaching duties and the team members are taken to the Board of Education headquarters where they are interrogated individually. Despite being pressured, they refuse to come clean and insist they did not cheat. However, Dominik ultimately breaks and confesses after a heart-to-heart talk with one of the investigators.\n\nAs a result, the state title is stripped from Steinmetz and awarded to Whitney Young. Dr. Plecki is fired from Steinmetz High School, and the team members are harassed by the other students for ruining their reputation. Dr. Plecki decides to leave Chicago in hopes the media will disperse and leave the team members alone. Before he leaves, he meets with his team one last time by Lake Michigan in downtown Chicago. The students present him with a gift: John Milton's book \"Paradise Lost\" signed by the team and the gold medal in Language and Literature that they didn't return to the board. With the team disbanded and Dr. Plecki gone, Jolie feels that she's lost a mentor that actually cared about her academic possibilities and her team that supported each other. In the end, Jolie gets accepted into college as the admissions board believed that her experience on the Academic Decathlon team allowed her to build character, and recognizes the merit of her achievements without cheating.\n\nIn the epilogue, it is stated that Dominik, Agneiska, and Paul went off to college, Matt worked in a warehouse, Darius' whereabouts are unknown, Irwin went to college to become a journalist, and Dr. Plecki started a business.\n\nAs a result of the 1995 cheating scandal, Steinmetz High School was banned from fielding an Academic Decathlon team for ten years. They returned to the competition in 2006.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27486018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27486018", "title": "Community project", "text": "Community project\n\nA community project is a term applied to any community-based project. This covers a wide variety of different areas within a community or a group of networking entities. Projects can cover almost anything, including the most obvious section of concern to any community, the welfare element. Welfare community projects would for example be, a locally run and locally funded orphanage; a Christmas dinner kitchen for the homeless. Another important sector of importance to the community would be charity. Charitable projects in the community can include, but are not limited to, ecological charities concerned with either the maintenance of green spaces, or in some cases, the prevention of the reduction/removal of green spaces. An old clothes collection service would also be a community-based charity project. One important subdivision of community projects, and at times overlooked, is those of an economic nature such as LETS. The highlight of economic community projects is what is known as Transition Towns. Most economic community projects are designed at creating some sort of economic autonomy.\n\nIt begins when a small collection of motivated individuals within a community come together with a shared concern: \"how can our community respond to the challenges, and opportunities, of peak oil and climate change?\"\n\nAll community projects are different in some way; the size and scope of these projects is determined firstly by the community they cater to.\n\nAccording to the definition of a community, a community could be the entire human race or parts of it anywhere on the planet. However, because of phenomena like distance decay or demographic factors such as age group, gender and income that determine social identity of groups, the extent of community-based projects is usually much more limited.\n\n"}
{"id": "24815482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24815482", "title": "Douglas Boulivar", "text": "Douglas Boulivar\n\nDouglas Boulivar (1947 in Staten Island, NY, 1947 – October 1, 2009, New York City) dancer, dance teacher and choreographer. trained at the Royal Ballet School and performed with the Repertory Dance Theatre, Ballet of the 20th Century, Dancers in Repertory, Bill Evans, Anna Sokolow and Mel Wong. He taught ballet and Rommett Floor Barre for the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, Steps on Broadway, Dance New Amsterdam and Les Ballets Jazz de Montréal, among others.\n\nHe was the director of Dancers in Repertory, which first performed in 1981.\n"}
{"id": "4571240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4571240", "title": "Dubai Knowledge Village", "text": "Dubai Knowledge Village\n\nDubai Knowledge Park is a human resources management, professional learning and educational free trade zone campus in the city of Dubai established in 2003, United Arab Emirates, that provides facilities for corporate training and learning institutions to operate with 100% foreign ownership. There are over 400 companies and institutions operating within it, which include occupational assessment and testing providers, universities, computer training providers, professional centers, executive development providers and HR consultancy companies. It is owned by Dubai Holding's subsidiary TECOM Investments. It is located in Al Sufouh 2 District.\n\nIn 2007, TECOM Investments launched a separate facility, Dubai International Academic City, where all institutions of higher education from Dubai Knowledge Park will be moved to.\nDubai Knowledge Park has previously been known as Knowledge Village.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10018", "title": "Edsger W. Dijkstra", "text": "Edsger W. Dijkstra\n\nEdsger Wybe Dijkstra (; ; 11 May 1930 – 6 August 2002) was a Dutch systems scientist, programmer, software engineer, science essayist, and early pioneer in computing science. A theoretical physicist by training, he worked as a programmer at the Mathematisch Centrum (Amsterdam) from 1952 to 1962. A university professor for much of his life, Dijkstra held the Schlumberger Centennial Chair in Computer Sciences at the University of Texas at Austin from 1984 until his retirement in 1999. He was a professor of mathematics at the Eindhoven University of Technology (1962–1984) and a research fellow at the Burroughs Corporation (1973–1984).\n\nOne of the most influential figures of computing science's founding generation, Dijkstra helped shape the new discipline from both an engineering and a theoretical perspective. His fundamental contributions cover diverse areas of computing science, including compiler construction, operating systems, distributed systems, sequential and concurrent programming, programming paradigm and methodology, programming language research, program design, program development, program verification, software engineering principles, graph algorithms, and philosophical foundations of computer programming and computer science. Many of his papers are the source of new research areas. Several concepts and problems that are now standard in computer science were first identified by Dijkstra or bear names coined by him. As a foremost opponent of the mechanizing view of computing science, he refuted the use of the concepts of 'computer science' and 'software engineering' as umbrella terms for academic disciplines.\n\nUntil the mid-1960s computer programming was considered more an art (or a craft) than a scientific discipline. In Harlan Mills's words (1986), \"programming [before the 1970s] was regarded as a private, puzzle-solving activity of writing computer instructions to work as a program\". In the late 1960s, computer programming was in a state of crisis. Dijkstra was one of a small group of academics and industrial programmers who advocated a new programming style to improve the quality of programs. Dijkstra, who had a background in mathematics and physics, was one of the driving forces behind the acceptance of computer programming as a scientific discipline. He coined the phrase \"structured programming\" and during the 1970s this became the new programming orthodoxy. His ideas about structured programming helped lay the foundations for the birth and development of the professional discipline of software engineering, enabling programmers to organize and manage increasingly complex software projects. As Bertrand Meyer (2009) noted, \"The revolution in views of programming started by Dijkstra's iconoclasm led to a movement known as structured programming, which advocated a systematic, rational approach to program construction. Structured programming is the basis for all that has been done since in programming methodology, including object-oriented programming.\"\n\nThe academic study of concurrent computing started in the 1960s, with Dijkstra (1965) credited with being the first paper in this field, identifying and solving the mutual exclusion problem. He was also one of the early pioneers of the research on principles of distributed computing. His foundational work on concurrency, semaphores, mutual exclusion, deadlock (deadly embrace), finding shortest paths in graphs, fault-tolerance, self-stabilization, among many other contributions comprises many of the pillars upon which the field of distributed computing is built. Shortly before his death in 2002, he received the ACM PODC Influential-Paper Award in distributed computing for his work on self-stabilization of program computation. This annual award was renamed the Dijkstra Prize (Edsger W. Dijkstra Prize in Distributed Computing) the following year, in his honor. As the prize, sponsored jointly by the ACM Symposium on Principles of Distributed Computing (PODC) and the EATCS International Symposium on Distributed Computing (DISC), recognizes that \"No other individual has had a larger influence on research in principles of distributed computing\".\n\nEdsger W. Dijkstra was born in Rotterdam. His father was a chemist who was president of the Dutch Chemical Society; he taught chemistry at a secondary school and was later its superintendent. His mother was a mathematician, but never had a formal job.\n\nDijkstra had considered a career in law and had hoped to represent the Netherlands in the United Nations. However, after graduating from school in 1948, at his parents' suggestion he studied mathematics and physics and then theoretical physics at the University of Leiden.\n\nIn the early 1950s, electronic computers were a novelty. Dijkstra stumbled on his career quite by accident, and through his supervisor, Professor A. Haantjes, he met Adriaan van Wijngaarden, the director of the Computation Department at the Mathematical Center in Amsterdam, who offered Dijkstra a job; he officially became the Netherlands' first \"programmer\" in March 1952.\n\nFor some time Dijkstra remained committed to physics, working on it in Leiden three days out of each week. With increasing exposure to computing, however, his focus began to shift. As he recalled:\nWhen Dijkstra married Maria (Ria) C. Debets in 1957, he was required as a part of the marriage rites to state his profession. He stated that he was a programmer, which was unacceptable to the authorities, there being no such profession at that time in The Netherlands.\nIn 1959 he received his PhD from the University of Amsterdam for a thesis entitled 'Communication with an Automatic Computer', devoted to a description of the assembly language designed for the first commercial computer developed in the Netherlands, the X1. His thesis supervisor was Van Wijngaarden.\n\nFrom 1952 until 1962 Dijkstra worked at the Mathematisch Centrum in Amsterdam, where he worked closely with Bram Jan Loopstra and Carel S. Scholten, who had been hired to build a computer. Their mode of interaction was disciplined: They would first decide upon the interface between the hardware and the software, by writing a programming manual. Then the hardware designers would have to be faithful to their part of the contract, while Dijkstra, the programmer, would write software for the nonexistent machine. Two of the lessons he learned from this experience were the importance of clear documentation, and that program debugging can be largely avoided through careful design.\nDijkstra formulated and solved the shortest path problem for a demonstration at the official inauguration of the ARMAC computer in 1956, but—because of the absence of journals dedicated to automatic computing—did not publish the result until 1959.\n\nAt the Mathematical Center, Dijkstra and his colleague developed a compiler for the programming language ALGOL 60; it had a profound influence on his later thinking on programming as a scientific activity. He and Zonneveld had completed the implementation of the first ALGOL 60 compiler by August 1960, more than a year before a compiler was produced by another group.\n\nIn 1962 Dijkstra moved to Eindhoven, and later to Nuenen, in the south of the Netherlands, where he became a professor in the Mathematics Department at the Eindhoven University of Technology. The university did not have a separate computer science department and the culture of the mathematics department did not particularly suit him. Dijkstra tried to build a group of computer scientists who could collaborate on solving problems. This was an unusual model of research for the Mathematics Department. In the late 1960s he built the THE operating system (named for the university, then known as Technische Hogeschool Eindhoven), which has influenced the designs of subsequent operating systems through its use of software based paged virtual memory.\n\nDijkstra joined Burroughs Corporation, a company known at that time for the production of computers based on an innovative hardware architecture, as its Research Fellow in August 1973. His duties consisted of visiting some of the company's research centers a few times a year and carrying on his own research, which he did in the smallest Burroughs research facility, namely, his study on the second floor of his house in Nuenen. In fact, Dijkstra was the only research fellow of Burroughs Corporation and worked for it from home, occasionally travelling to its branches in the United States. As a result, he reduced his appointment at the university to one day a week. That day, Tuesday, soon became known as the day of the famous 'Tuesday Afternoon Club', a seminar during which he discussed with his colleagues scientific articles, looking at all aspects – notation, organisation, presentation, language, content, etc. Shortly after he moved in 1984 to the University of Texas at Austin (USA), a new 'branch' of the Tuesday Afternoon Club emerged in Austin.\n\nThe Burroughs years saw him at his most prolific in output of research articles. He wrote nearly 500 documents in the EWD series (described below), most of them technical reports, for private circulation within a select group.\n\nDijkstra accepted the Schlumberger Centennial Chair in the Computer Science Department at the University of Texas at Austin in 1984.\n\nDijkstra worked in Austin until his retirement in November 1999. To mark the occasion and to celebrate his forty-plus years of seminal contributions to computing science, the Department of Computer Sciences organized a symposium, which took place on his 70th birthday in May 2000.\n\nDijkstra and his wife returned from Austin to his original house in Nuenen (Netherlands) where he found that he had only months to live. He said that he wanted to retire in Austin, Texas, but to die in the Netherlands. Dijkstra died on 6 August 2002 after a long struggle with cancer. He and his wife Maria (Ria) Debets were survived by their three children: Marcus, Femke and the computer scientist Rutger M. Dijkstra.\n\nAs an early theoretical pioneer in many research areas of computing science, Dijkstra helped shape the new discipline from both an engineering and an academic perspective. Many of his papers are the source of new research areas. Many concepts that are now standard in computer science were first identified by Dijkstra and/or bear names coined by him. Several important problems were also first formulated and solved by him. A 1994 survey of over a thousand professors of computer science was conducted to obtain a list of 38 most influential scholarly papers in the field, and Dijkstra is the author of five papers.\n\nDuring his forty-plus years as a computing scientist, which included positions in both academia and industry, Dijkstra made numerous seminal contributions to many areas of computing science, including compiler construction, operating systems, concurrent programming (concurrent computing), distributed programming (distributed computing), programming paradigm and methodology, programming language research, program design, program development, program verification, software engineering principles, algorithm design, and philosophical foundations of computer programming and computer science. In addition, Dijkstra was intensely interested in teaching computer science, and in the relationships between academic computing science and the software industry.\n\nDijkstra's algorithmic work (especially graph algorithms, concurrent algorithms, and distributed algorithms) plays an important role in many areas of computing science. According to Leslie Lamport (2002), Dijkstra \"started the field of concurrent and distributed algorithms with his 1965 CACM paper \"Solution of a Problem in Concurrent Programming Control\", in which he first stated and solved the mutual exclusion problem.\" As Lamport explains, \"that paper is probably why PODC exists (...). It remains to this day the most influential paper in the field. That it did not win a PODC Influential Paper Award reflects an artificial separation between concurrent and distributed algorithms–a separation that has never existed in Dijkstra's work.\"\n\nIn 1959 Dijkstra published in a 3-page article 'A note on two problems in connexion with graphs' the algorithm to find the shortest path in a graph between any two given nodes, now called Dijkstra's algorithm. Its impact over the next 40 years is summarised from the article of Mikkel Thorup, 'Undirected Single Source Shortest Paths with Positive Integer Weights in Linear Time' (1999): \"Since 1959, all theoretical developments in SSSP [Single-Source Shortest Paths] for general directed and undirected graphs have been based on Dijkstra's algorithm.\" Dijkstra's algorithm is used in SPF, Shortest Path First, which is used in the routing protocols OSPF and IS-IS. Various modifications to Dijkstra's algorithm have been proposed by many authors using heuristics to reduce the run time of shortest path search. One of the most used heuristic algorithms is the A* search algorithm (first described by Peter Hart, Nils Nilsson and Bertram Raphael of Stanford Research Institute in 1968), the main goal is to reduce the run time by reducing the search space. Dijkstra thought about the shortest path problem when working at the Mathematical Center in Amsterdam in 1956 as a programmer to demonstrate capabilities of a new computer called ARMAC. His objective was to choose both a problem as well as an answer (that would be produced by computer) that non-computing people could understand. He designed the shortest path algorithm in about 20 minutes without aid of paper and pen and later implemented it for ARMAC for a slightly simplified transportation map of 64 cities in the Netherlands (so that 6 bits would suffice to represent the city in the algorithm). As he recalled, in an interview published in 2001:\nA year later, he came across another problem from hardware engineers working on the institute's next computer: minimize the amount of wire needed to connect the pins on the back panel of the machine. As a solution, he re-discovered the algorithm known as Prim's minimal spanning tree algorithm. The Prim's algorithm was originally developed in 1930 by Czech mathematician Vojtěch Jarník and later independently rediscovered and republished by Robert C. Prim in 1957 and Dijkstra in 1959. Therefore, it is also sometimes called the DJP algorithm.\n\nIn 1961 Dijkstra first described the shunting-yard algorithm, a method for parsing mathematical expressions specified in infix notation, in the Mathematisch Centrum report. It can be used to produce output in Reverse Polish notation (RPN) or as an abstract syntax tree (AST). The algorithm was named the \"shunting yard\" algorithm because its operation resembles that of a railroad shunting yard. The shunting-yard algorithm is commonly used to implement operator-precedence parsers.\n\nIn 1962 or 1963 Dijkstra proposed the semaphore mechanism for mutual exclusion algorithm for n processes (a generalization of Dekker's algorithm), which was probably the first published concurrent algorithm and which introduced a new area of algorithmic research. He also identified the deadlock problem and proposed the banker's algorithm that prevents deadlock.\n\nIn 1974 Dijkstra presented three self-stabilizing algorithms for mutual exclusion on a ring. Dijkstra's work is considered to be the first to introduce and demonstrate the self-stabilization concept.\n\nIn the mid-1970s Dijkstra (together with other authors) introduced two useful abstractions (mutator and collector) to the study of garbage collection. The mutator abstracts the process that performs the computation, including allocation of a new storage cell. The collector is the process that automatically reclaims garbage. Furthermore, this paper gives a formalization of \"tri-color marking\" that is basic to incremental garbage collection.\n\nIn the early 1980s Dijkstra and Carel S. Scholten proposed the Dijkstra–Scholten algorithm for detecting termination in distributed systems.\n\nIn 1981 Dijkstra developed smoothsort, a comparison-based sorting algorithm and a variation of heapsort.\n\nDijkstra was known to be a fan of ALGOL 60, and worked on the team that implemented the first compiler for that language. He was closely involved in the ALGOL 60 development, realisation and popularisation. As discussed by Peter Naur in the article 'The European side of the last phase of the development of ALGOL 60', in the \"Proceedings of the First ACM SIGPLAN Conference on History of Programming Languages\", January 1978, Dijkstra took part in the period 1958–1959 in a number of meetings that culminated in the publication of the report defining the ALGOL 60 language. Dijkstra's name does not appear in the list of 13 authors of the final report. Apparently, he eventually left the committee because he could not agree with the majority opinions. Still, while at the Mathematisch Centrum (Amsterdam), he wrote jointly with Jaap Zonneveld the first ALGOL 60 compiler. Dijkstra and Zonneveld, who collaborated on the compiler, agreed not to shave until the project was completed; while Zonneveld shaved shortly thereafter, Dijkstra kept his beard for the rest of his life.\n\nALGOL was the result of a collaboration of American and European committees. ALGOL 60 (short for ALGOrithmic Language 1960) is a member of the ALGOL family of computer programming languages. It followed on from ALGOL 58 and inspired many languages that followed it. It gave rise to many other programming languages, including BCPL, B, Pascal, Simula and C. Algol 60 was a sophisticatedly designed computer language and it provided a large number of hitherto unknown implementation challenges. As Bjarne Stroustrup notes, \"one problem with Algol60 was that no one knew how to implement it.\" A major new challenge in Algol 60 implementation was the run-time allocation and management of data. In 1960 Dijkstra and Zonneveld showed how recursive procedures could be executed using a run-time stack of activation records, and how to efficiently access identifiers from statically enclosing scopes using the so-called 'display'. The ALGOL 60 compiler was one of the first to support recursion employing a novel method to do so. Dijkstra's short book \"Primer of Algol 60 Programming\", originally published in 1962, was the standard reference for the language for several years.\n\nComputer programming in the 1950s to 1960s was not recognized as an academic discipline and unlike mature sciences there were no theoretical concepts or coding systems. Programming as a professional activity was poorly understood in those years.\n\nIn the late 1960s computer programming was in state of crisis. Software crisis is a term used in the early days of computing science for the difficulty of writing useful and efficient computer programs in the required time. The software crisis was due to the rapid increases in computer power and the complexity of the problems that could be tackled. With the increase in the complexity of the software, many software problems arose because existing methods were neither sufficient nor up to the mark. The term \"software crisis\" was coined by some attendees at the first NATO Software Engineering Conference in 1968 at Garmisch, Germany. His 1972 ACM Turing Award Lecture makes reference to this same problem: \"The major cause of the software crisis is that the machines have become several orders of magnitude more powerful! To put it quite bluntly: as long as there were no machines, programming was no problem at all; when we had a few weak computers, programming became a mild problem, and now we have gigantic computers, programming has become an equally gigantic problem.\"\n\nWhile Dijkstra had programmed extensively in machine code in the 1950s, he came to the conclusion that in high-level languages frequent use of the GOTO statement was usually symptomatic of poor structure. In 1968 he wrote a private paper \"A Case against the GO TO Statement\", which was then published as a letter in CACM. Editor Niklaus Wirth gave this letter the heading \"Go To Statement Considered Harmful\", which introduced the phrase \"considered harmful\" into computing.\n\nDijkstra argued that the programming statement GOTO, found in many high-level programming languages, is a major source of errors, and should therefore be eliminated. This letter caused a huge debate in the programming community. Some went to the length of equating good programming with the elimination of GO TO. Dijkstra refused to mention the debate, or even the GO TO statement, in his article \"Notes on Structured Programming\". The debate has long since died down; programming languages provide alternatives to the GO TO, few programmers today use it liberally, and most never use it at all.\n\nDijkstra's thesis was that departures from linear control flow were clearer if allowed only in disciplined higher-level structures such as the if-then-else statement and the while loop. This methodology was developed into structured programming movement, the title of his 1972 book, coauthored with C.A.R. Hoare and Ole-Johan Dahl. Considered by many as the first significant movement in history of computer programming, structured programming became the new programming orthodoxy during the 1970s. Bertrand Meyer remarked that, \"The revolution in views of programming started by Dijkstra's iconoclasm led to a movement known as structured programming, which advocated a systematic, rational approach to program construction. Structured programming is the basis for all that has been done since in programming methodology, including object-oriented programming.\"\n\nStructured programming is often regarded as \"goto-less programming\". But as Bertrand Meyer notes, \"As the first book on the topic [\"Structured Programming\" by Dijkstra, Dahl, and Hoare] shows, structured programming is about much more than control structures and the goto. Its principal message is that programming should be considered a scientific discipline based on mathematical rigor.\" , structured programming – especially in the 1970s and 1980s – significantly influenced the birth of many modern programming languages such as Pascal, C, Modula-2, and Ada. The Fortran 77 version which incorporates the concepts of structured programming, was released in 1978. The C++ language was a considerably extended and enhanced version of the popular C (see also: list of C-based programming languages). Since C++ was developed from a more traditional , it is a 'hybrid language', rather than a pure object-oriented programming language.\n\nIn his article \"Structured Programming: Retrospect and Prospect\" (1986), Harlan Mills writes, \"Edsger W. Dijkstra's 1969 \"Structured Programming\" article precipitated a decade of intense focus on programming techniques that has fundamentally altered human expectations and achievements in software development. Before this decade of intense focus, programming was regarded as a private, puzzle-solving activity of writing computer instructions to work as a program. After this decade, programming could be regarded as a public, mathematics-based activity of restructuring specifications into programs. Before, the challenge was in getting programs to run at all, and then in getting them further debugged to do the right things. After, programs could be expected to both run and do the right things with little or no debugging. Before, it was common wisdom that no sizable program could be error-free. After, many sizable programs have run a year or more with no errors detected. These expectations and achievements are not universal because of the inertia of industrial practices. But they are well-enough established to herald fundamental change in software development.\"\n\nThe book \"Concise Encyclopedia of Computer Science\" (2004), edited by Edwin D. Reilly, notes that \"the major contributions of structured programming have been twofold—the elevation of programming technique to something less of an art and more of a science, and the demonstration that carefully structured programs can be creative works of sufficient literary merit to deserve being read by humans and not just by computer.\"\n\nDijkstra's ideas about programming methodology (especially the structured programming movement) helped lay the foundations for the birth and development of the professional discipline of software engineering (in particular the software design and development), enabling programmers to organize and manage increasingly complex software projects. In the late 1960s Dijkstra discussed the concept of program families. And in the mid 1970s David Parnas and others clarified the idea and showed how to apply it in software engineering principles.\n\nThe rise of the structured programming movement led to many other \"structured\" approaches applied to software design. The techniques of structured analysis and structured design are outgrowths of structured programming concepts and techniques, and of the early ideas about modular design. Principles of modularity were strengthened by Larry Constantine's concepts of coupling (to be minimized between modules) and cohesion (to be maximized within modules), by David Parnas's techniques of information hiding, and by abstract data types. A number of tools and methods employing structured concepts were developed, such as Structured Design, Jackson's Structured Programming, Ross' Structured Analysis and Design Technique (SADT), Yourdon's Structured Method, Structured Systems Analysis and Design Method (SSADM), and James Martin's information technology engineering. The field of software metrics is often considered as a direct influence of the structured programming movement on software engineering in the 1970s.\n\nSeparation of concerns (SoC), one of the basic principles in software engineering, is a design principle for separating a computer program into distinct sections, such that each section addresses a separate concern. The term \"separation of concerns\" was coined by Dijkstra in his 1974 paper \"On the role of scientific thought\".\n\nIn the 1960s Dijkstra and his colleagues in Eindhoven designed and implemented THE (standing for 'Technische Hogeschool Eindhoven') operating system, which was organised into clearly identified layers. His 1968 article on this subject provided the foundation for subsequent designs of the operating systems. The IEEE Computer Society's David Alan Grier writes, \"We generally trace the idea of building computer systems in layers back to a 1967 paper that the Dutch computer scientist Edsger Dijkstra gave to a joint IEEE Computer Society/ACM conference. Prior to this paper, engineers had struggled with the problem of how to organize software. If you look at early examples of programs, and you can find many in the electronic library of the Computer Society, you will find that most code of that era is complicated, difficult to read, hard to modify, and challenging to reuse. In his 1967 paper, Dijkstra described how software could be constructed in layers and gave an example of a simple operating system that used five layers. He admitted that this system might not be a realistic test of his ideas but he argued that the \"larger the project, the more essential the structuring!\" The idea of using layers to control complexity has become a mainstay of software architecture. We see it in many forms and apply it to many problems. We see it in the hierarchy of classes in object-oriented programming and in the structure of Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA). SOA is a relatively recent application of layering in computer science. It was articulated in 2007 as a means of controlling complexity in business systems, especially distributed systems that make substantial use of the Internet. Like Dijkstra's plan for system development, its layering system is called the SOA Solution Stack or S3. The S3's nine layers are: 1) operational systems, 2) service components, 3) services, 4) business processes, 5) consumer actions, 6) system integration, 7) quality control and assurance, 8) information architecture, and 9) system governance and policies.\"\n\nDijkstra organized the design of the system in layers in order to reduce the overall complexity of the software. Though the term 'architecture' had not yet been used to describe software design, this was certainly considered the first glimpse of software architecture. It introduced a number of design principles which have become part of the working vocabulary of every professional programmer: levels of abstraction, programming in layers, the semaphore, and cooperating sequential processes. His original paper on the THE operating system was reprinted in the 25th Anniversary issue of Communications of the ACM, in January 1983. By way of introduction, the Editor-in-Chief says, \"This project initiated a long line of research in multilevel systems architecture — a line that continues to the present day because hierarchical modularity is a powerful approach to organizing large systems.\"\n\nIn a one-page paper from 1965 Dijkstra introduced the 'mutual exclusion problem' for n processes and discussed a solution to it. It was probably the first published concurrent algorithm. The notion, standard by now, of a 'critical section' was also introduced in this paper. Per Brinch Hansen, a pioneer in the field of concurrent computing, considers Dijkstra's \"Cooperating Sequential Processes\" (1965) to be the first classic paper in concurrent programming. As Brinch Hansen notes, 'Dijkstra lays the conceptual foundation for abstract concurrent programming' with that paper.\nIn 1968 Dijkstra published his seminal paper 'Cooperating sequential processes', a 70-page essay that originated the field of concurrent programming. He discussed in it the notion of mutual exclusion (mutex) and the criteria a satisfactory solution should satisfy. He also redressed the historical perspective left out of his 1965 paper by including the first known correct solution to the mutual exclusion problem, for two processes, due to Theodorus Dekker. Dijkstra subsequently generalized Dekker's solution to n processes. Further, he proposed the first synchronisation mechanism for concurrent processes, the semaphore with its two operations, P and V. He also identified the 'deadlock problem' (called there 'the problem of the deadly embrace') and proposed an elegant 'Banker's algorithm' that prevents deadlock. The deadlock detection and prevention became perennial research problems in the field of concurrent programming.\nThe dining philosophers problem is an example problem often used in concurrent algorithm design to illustrate synchronization issues and techniques for resolving them. It was originally formulated in 1965 by Dijkstra as a student exam exercise, presented in terms of computers competing for access to tape drive peripherals. Soon after, Tony Hoare gave the problem its present formulation. The sleeping barber problem is also attributed to Dijkstra.\n\nIn his book \"Concurrent Programming: Algorithms, Principles, and Foundations\" Michel Raynal writes, \"Since the early work of E.W. Dijkstra (1965), who introduced the mutual exclusion problem, the concept of a process, the semaphore object, the notion of a weakest precondition, and guarded commands (among many other contributions), synchronization is no longer a catalog of tricks but a domain of computing science with its own concepts, mechanisms, and techniques whose results can be applied in many domains. This means that process synchronization has to be a major topic of any computer science curriculum.\"\n\nJohn W. McCormick et al. (2011) notes, \"The notion of the concurrent program as a means for writing parallel programs without regard for the underlying hardware was first introduced by Edsger Dijkstra (1968). Moti Ben-Ari (1982) elegantly summed up Dijkstra's idea in three sentences: ‘Concurrent programming is the name given to programming notation and techniques for expressing potential parallelism and solving the resulting synchronization and communication problems. Implementation of parallelism is a topic in computer systems (hardware and software) that is essentially independent of concurrent programming. Concurrent programming is important because it provides an abstract setting in which to study parallelism without getting bogged down in the implementation details.’\"\n\nDijkstra was one of the very early pioneers of the research on principles of distributed computing. As the citation for the Dijkstra Prize recognizes, \"no other individual has had a larger influence on research in principles of distributed computing.\" Some of his papers are even considered to be those that established the field. Dijkstra's 1965 paper, \"Solution of a Problem in Concurrent Programming Control\" was the first to present the correct solution to the mutual exclusion problem. Leslie Lamport writes that this work \"is probably why PODC exists\" and it \"started the field of concurrent and distributed algorithms\".\n\nIn particular, his paper \"Self-stabilizing Systems in Spite of Distributed Control\" (1974) started the sub-field of self-stabilization. It is also considered as the first scientific examination of fault-tolerant systems. Dijkstra's paper was not widely noticed until Leslie Lamport's invited talk at the ACM Symposium on Principles of Distributed Computing (PODC) in 1983. In his report on Dijkstra's work on self-stabilizing distributed systems, Lamport regard it to be 'a milestone in work on fault tolerance' and 'a very fertile field for research'.\n\nFrom the 1970s, Dijkstra's chief interest was formal verification. In 1976 Dijkstra published a seminal book, \"A Discipline of Programming\", which put forward his method of systematic development of programs together with their correctness proofs. In his exposition he used his 'Guarded Command Language'. The language, with its reliance on non-determinism, the adopted weakest precondition semantics and the proposed development method has had a considerable impact on the field to this day. The refinement calculus, originally proposed by Ralph-Johan Back and developed by Carroll Morgan, is an extension of Dijkstra's weakest precondition calculus, where program statements are modeled as predicate transformers.\n\nIn 1984, to add further support to this approach to programming, he published jointly with Wim Feijen an introductory textbook for first-year students of computer science. The book, first published in Dutch, was entitled \"Een methode van programmeren\". The English edition appeared in 1988 as \"A Method of Programming\".\n\nMany of his opinions on computer science and programming have become widespread. For example, the programming phrase \"two or more, use a for\" (a rule of thumb when to use a loop) is sometimes attributed to him.\n\nHe was the first to make the claim that programming is so inherently complex that, in order to manage it successfully, programmers need to harness every trick and abstraction possible.\n\nDijkstra was one of the most famous opponents of the engineering view of computing science. Like Peter Naur and Kristen Nygaard, Dijkstra disliked the very term 'computer science'. Computer science, as Dijkstra pointed out, deserves a better name. He suggests it can be called 'computing science'. Instead of the computer, or computing technology, Dijkstra wanted to emphasize the abstract mechanisms that computing science uses to master complexity. When expressing the abstract nature of computing science, he wrote,\n\nIn \"The Humble Programmer\" (1972), Dijkstra wrote: \"We must not forget that it is not our [computing scientists'] business to make programs, it is our business to design classes of computations that will display a desired behaviour.\"\n\nDijkstra also opposed the inclusion of software engineering under the umbrella of academic computer science. He wrote that, \"As economics is known as \"The Miserable Science\", software engineering should be known as \"The Doomed Discipline\", doomed because it cannot even approach its goal since its goal is self-contradictory.\" And \"software engineering has accepted as its charter \"How to program if you cannot.\".\"\n\nIn the world of computing science, Dijkstra is well known as a \"character\". In the preface of his book \"A Discipline of Programming\" (1976) he stated the following: \"For the absence of a bibliography I offer neither explanation nor apology.\" In fact, most of his articles and books have no references at all. This approach to references was deplored by some researchers. But Dijkstra chose this way of working to preserve his self-reliance.\n\nAs a university professor for much of his life, Dijkstra saw teaching not just as a required activity but as a serious research endeavor. His approach to teaching was unconventional. His lecturing style has been described as idiosyncratic. When lecturing, the long pauses between sentences have often been attributed to the fact that English is not Dijkstra's first language. However the pauses also served as a way for him to think on his feet and he was regarded as a quick and deep thinker while engaged in the act of lecturing. His courses for students in Austin had little to do with computer science but they dealt with the presentation of mathematical proofs. At the beginning of each semester he would take a photo of each of the students, in order to memorize their names. He never followed a textbook, with the possible exception of his own while it was under preparation. When lecturing, he would write proofs in chalk on a blackboard rather than using overhead foils. He invited the students to suggest ideas, which he then explored, or refused to explore because they violated some of his tenets. He assigned challenging homework problems, and would study his students' solutions thoroughly. He conducted his final examinations orally, over a whole week. Each student was examined in Dijkstra's office or home, and an exam lasted several hours.\n\nHe was also highly original in his way of assessing people's capacity for a job. When Vladimir Lifschitz came to Austin in 1990 for a job interview, Dijkstra gave him a puzzle. Vladimir solved it and has been working in Austin since then.\n\nDespite having invented much of the technology of software, Dijkstra eschewed the use of computers in his own work for many decades. Even after he succumbed to his UT colleagues' encouragement and acquired a Macintosh computer, he used it only for e-mail and for browsing the World Wide Web. Dijkstra never wrote his articles using a computer. He preferred to rely on his typewriter and later on his Montblanc pen. Dijkstra's favorite writing instrument was the Montblanc Meisterstück fountain pen. He repeatedly tried other pens, but none ever displaced the Montblanc.\n\nHe had no use for word processors, believing that one should be able to write a letter or article without rough drafts, rewriting, or any significant editing. He would work it all out in his head before putting pen to paper, and once mentioned that when he was a physics student he would solve his homework problems in his head while walking the streets of Leiden.\nMost of Dijkstra's publications were written by him alone. He never had a secretary and took care of all his correspondence alone. When colleagues prepared a Festschrift for his sixtieth birthday, published by Springer-Verlag, he took the trouble to thank each of the 61 contributors separately, in a hand-written letter.\n\nThroughout Dijkstra's career, his work was characterized by elegance and economy. A prolific writer (especially as an essayist), Dijkstra authored more than 1,300 papers, many written by hand in his precise script. They were essays and parables; fairy tales and warnings; comprehensive explanation and pedagogical pretext. Most were about mathematics and computer science; others were trip reports that are more revealing about their author than about the people and places visited. It was his habit to copy each paper and circulate it to a small group of colleagues who would copy and forward the papers to another limited group of scientists. His love affair with simplicity came at an early age and under his mother's guidance. He once said he had asked his mother whether trigonometry was a difficult topic. She replied that he must learn all the formulas and that furthermore if he required more than five lines to prove something, he was on the wrong track.\n\nDijkstra was famous for his wit, eloquence, and way with words, such as in his remark, \"The question of whether Machines Can Think (…) is about as relevant as the question of whether Submarines Can Swim.\"; his advice to a promising researcher, who asked how to select a topic for research, \"Do only what only you can do\". Dijkstra was also known for his vocal criticism. As an outspoken and critical visionary, he strongly opposed the teaching of BASIC.\n\nIn many of his more humorous essays, Dijkstra described a fictional company of which he served as chairman. The company was called Mathematics, Inc., a company that he imagined having commercialized the production of mathematical theorems in the same way that software companies had commercialized the production of computer programs. He invented a number of activities and challenges of Mathematics Inc. and documented them in several papers in the EWD series. The imaginary company had produced a proof of the Riemann Hypothesis but then had great difficulties collecting royalties from mathematicians who had proved results assuming the Riemann Hypothesis. The proof itself was a trade secret. Many of the company's proofs were rushed out the door and then much of the company's effort had to be spent on maintenance. A more successful effort was the Standard Proof for Pythagoras' Theorem, that replaced the more than 100 incompatible existing proofs. Dijkstra described Mathematics Inc. as \"the most exciting and most miserable business ever conceived\". EWD 443 (1974) describes his fictional company as having over 75 percent of the world's market share.\n\nDijkstra was well known for his habit of carefully composing manuscripts with his fountain pen. The manuscripts are called EWDs, since Dijkstra numbered them with \"EWD\", his initials, as a prefix. According to Dijkstra himself, the EWDs started when he moved from the Mathematical Centre in Amsterdam to the Eindhoven University of Technology (then Technische Hogeschool Eindhoven). After going to Eindhoven, Dijkstra experienced a writer's block for more than a year. Dijkstra distributed photocopies of a new EWD among his colleagues. Many recipients photocopied and forwarded their copies, so the EWDs spread throughout the international computer science community. The topics were computer science and mathematics, and included trip reports, letters, and speeches. These short articles span a period of 40 years. Almost all EWDs appearing after 1972 were hand-written. They are rarely longer than 15 pages and are consecutively numbered. The last one, No. 1318, is from 14 April 2002. Within computer science they are known as the EWD reports, or, simply the EWDs. More than 1300 EWDs have been scanned, with a growing number transcribed to facilitate search, and are available online at the Dijkstra archive of the University of Texas.\n\nDijkstra's self-confidence went together with a remarkably modest lifestyle, to the point of being spartan. His and his wife's house in Nuenen was simple, small and unassuming. He did not own a TV, a VCR or a mobile telephone, and did not go to the movies. In contrast, he played the piano well and, while in Austin, liked to go to concerts. An enthusiastic listener of classical music, Dijkstra's favorite composer was Mozart.\n\nDijkstra died on 6 August 2002. According to officials at the University of Texas, the cause of death was cancer.\n\nIn 1972 the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) acknowledged Dijkstra's seminal contributions to the field by awarding him the distinguished Turing Award. The citation for the award reads:\nThe introduction given at the awards ceremony is a tribute to Dijkstra:\nIn the words of Sir Tony Hoare, FRS, delivered by him at Dijkstra's funeral:\nIn March 2003, the following email was sent to the distributed computing community:\nFormer ACM President Peter J. Denning wrote about Dijkstra:\nAmong Dijkstra's awards and honors are:\n\nThe Distinguished Fellowship of the British Computer Society (BCS) is awarded under bylaw 7 of the BCS's Royal Charter. The award was first approved in 1969 and the first election was made in 1971 to Dijkstra.\n\nOn the occasion of Dijkstra's 60th birthday in 1990, The Department of Computer Science (UTCS) at the University of Texas at Austin organized a two-day seminar in his honor. Speakers came from all over the United States and Europe, and a group of computer scientists contributed research articles which were edited into a book.\n\nIn 2002, the C&C Foundation of Japan recognized Dijkstra \"for his pioneering contributions to the establishment of the scientific basis for computer software through creative research in basic software theory, algorithm theory, structured programming, and semaphores.\" Dijkstra was alive to receive notice of the award, but it was accepted by his family in an award ceremony after his death.\n\nShortly before his death in 2002, Dijkstra received the ACM PODC Influential-Paper Award in distributed computing for his work on self-stabilization of program computation. This annual award was renamed the Dijkstra Prize (Edsger W. Dijkstra Prize in Distributed Computing) the following year, in his honor.\n\nThe Dijkstra Award for Outstanding Academic Achievement in Computer Science (Loyola University Chicago, Department of Computer Science) is named for Edsger W. Dijkstra. Beginning in 2005, this award recognizes the top academic performance by a graduating computer science major. Selection is based on GPA in all major courses and election by department faculty.\n\nThe Department of Computer Science (UTCS) at the University of Texas at Austin hosted the inaugural Edsger W. Dijkstra Memorial Lecture on 12 October 2010. Tony Hoare, Emeritus Professor at Oxford and Principal Researcher at Microsoft Research, was the speaker for the event. This lecture series was made possible by a generous grant from Schlumberger to honor the memory of Dijkstra.\n\n\nBooks:\nSelected articles:\n\n"}
{"id": "19830039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19830039", "title": "Federal Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education", "text": "Federal Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education\n\nFederal Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, () Islamabad, commonly known as FBISE, is a federal government board for examining the intermediate and secondary education in Pakistan and abroad for Pakistan International School. It is authorized with financial and administrative authority to organize, manage, regulate, develop and control intermediate and secondary education in general and accomplish examinations in the institutions affiliated with it.\n\nThe federal board of intermediate and secondary education was established under the FBISE Act 1975. The FBISE is an autonomous body of the Ministry of Federal Education and Professional Training.\n\nThe Jurisdiction of the Federal Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Islamabad consists of the following:\n\n\nThe FBISE board held the following exams both across Pakistan and also abroad for overseas Pakistanis:\n\n"}
{"id": "39080732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39080732", "title": "Gongo Primary School", "text": "Gongo Primary School\n\nGongo Primary School is a Kenyan co-educational day primary school located in the Central Gem ward of Siaya County, Nyanza Province.\n\nApproximately 625 pupils are enrolled. The student teacher ratio of 48:1 and this means there is 56:8 pupils per classroom in 11 classrooms.\n\nThe school is relatively competitive with most of the pupils attaining the average Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (KCPE) examination points required to join secondary education institutions.\n\nThe school recently gave rise to the Gongo Warom Secondary School to cater for the consequent imbalance between the numbers qualifying for secondary schools and the limited Form 1 places available within the surrounding secondary schools.\n\n"}
{"id": "17424187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17424187", "title": "Henk Buck", "text": "Henk Buck\n\nHenk Buck (born Dordrecht, 1930) is an organic chemist. He studied at the University of Leiden where he received his PhD in 1959. He got a lectorship at the University in Theoretical Organic Chemistry in 1964. For his research he received the Golden Medal of the Royal Netherlands Chemical Society in 1967. In 1970 he was appointed as professor of Physical Organic Chemistry and Organic Chemistry at the University of Technology in Eindhoven. Because there was no Chair for Theoretical Chemistry and Biochemistry he gave lectures in organic chemistry, physical organic chemistry, theoretical organic chemistry, biochemistry and biotechnology. From 1988-1991 he was Dean of the Chemical Faculty. For his scientific contributions he became a member of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1979. During his scientific career he published more than 300 scientific papers spread over a large area of the chemical field. Under his supervision 43 chemical engineers obtained their PhD. The end of his career came prematurely because of a publication in Science in 1990 that had to be retracted because of flawed research.\n\nHis research in Leiden and later in Eindhoven was focused on organic chemistry as the homogeneous catalysis of the oxidation of hydrocarbons with stable carbenium ions as the pentamethylbenzyl cation and the chiral induction with the redox couple NADH-NAD in the nearly 100% stereospecific hydride transfer to ketones and imines. The latter process is controlled by the out-of-plane orientation of the carboxamide group. In the field of physical chemistry his work was directed on electron spin resonance measurements of phosphoranyl radicals with phosphorus in different geometries as the tetrahedral and the trigonal bipyramidal configuration with the unpaired electron in an equatorial or axial orientation. His contribution to the theoretical organic chemistry was based on Ab initio calculations of the radiationless transition of formaldehyde and ab initio calculations of single vibronic level fluorescence emission spectra and absolute radiative lifetimes of formaldehyde. Further he investigated deviations of the Woodward-Hoffmann rules as the photochemical [1,3]-OH shift in 2-propen-1-ol. Here the stereochemical outcome is determined by relaxation of the excited double bond. A thermal study of the cis-[1,5]-H shifts in 1,3-pentadiene showed the effect of vibrationally assisted tunneling in this geometric orientation.\n\nA special topic in his research was organophosphorus chemistry. An important aspect of this project was based on the possibility of phosphorus (IV) to accommodate a fifth ligand under formation of a trigonal bipyramid which shows a number of unique properties. The significance of this geometrical change has been demonstrated in the conformational transmission in DNA for the B-Z transition with alternating CpG units under selective phosphate shielding. This change in geometry of phosphorus was also applicable on the biochemical dynamics of cAMP. Because of the importance of shielding, the OCH group was introduced as substitute for O in the study of intermediates for conformational transmission. This also resulted in the synthesis of phosphate-methylated DNAs and RNAs. Methylphosphotriester DNAs were synthesized with 2-12 bases. Neutralization of the charge of the phosphate linkages by (specific) methylation resulted in methylphosphotriester DNAs with very exclusive (bio)chemical properties. The introduction of chirality at phosphorus appeared of importance for intra- and intermolecular dynamics. These modified DNAs mimicked the behavior of natural DNA in the absence of stabilizing factors as salts, proteins, and medium factors. In fact a high site-specific hybridization affinity was obtained with complementary natural DNA. In dependence of the bases, \"parallel\" DNA could be synthesized for pyrimidine bases in which the chirality of phosphorus was decisive. Phosphate methylation also gave the possibility to synthesize a self-complementary left-handed Z-DNA mini duplex.\n\nAfter a publication in Science about the inhibition of HIV-1 replication had to be retracted, because it was based on flawed research, he accepted early retirement in 1990. (see The Buck-Goudsmit controversy)\n\nAt home without any academic support he wrote several articles based on quantum chemical calculations focused on the dynamics of organic reactions, electron spin resonance of organophosphorus radicals and the hybridization affinity of methylphosphotriester DNA and RNA. The latter subject is published as review articles in Nucleosides, Nucleotides & Nucleic Acids. In these reviews he gives also a description and explanation of the chemical and corresponding biochemical results of the methylphosphotriester DNA, RNA and related systems. This contribution that is mainly based on the work at Eindhoven also consists of new insights in solid-phase synthesis, B-Z transition, and methyl transfer reactions connected with replicational and transcriptional silencing. Special attention is given to the effect of phosphate shielding on duplex stability. Models based on molecular mechanics calculations and recent density functional ab initio calculations support the impact of phosphate shielding at the various levels of stability of the DNA duplex.\n\nIn the mid-80s Henk Buck focused his research on the use of antisense DNA as an inhibitor of virus replication. Paul C. Zamecnik is generally regarded as the founder of this technique, but already in 1971 Paul S. Miller created short phosphate methylated DNA-fragments, and considered the possibility of using this as a means of influencing DNA-replication. Bucks research group focused on the use of this phosphate methylated DNA, in particular because of its neutral electrical properties. In several publications the selectivity and duplex forming were reported.\nThe strong growth of HIV-infections in those days, commercial interests and patent rights led to the decision to cooperate with the virologist Jaap Goudsmit of the Academic Medical Center of Amsterdam University. Jaap Goudsmit required longer DNA-strands, though, than the ones Buck was testing so far, so a new synthesis route was developed. Jaap Goudsmit tested the new strands on samples of HIV and reported the inhibition of the virus replication.\n\nThe results were published in Science on April 13, 1990.\n\nOn the eve of the publication, the University of Eindhoven made the news public. It resulted in excited media attention in the Netherlands, and under the pressure Buck publicly stated that he assumed that AIDS would be of the past in a couple of years, although it was agreed not to make such claims. Afterwards he explained, he deliberately had said this to raise more funds for his research, although much later he defended himself by saying that he was provoked by the reporter.\nDoubts raised immediately after the article appeared in Science. The next day, the Leiden University professor Van Boom, expert in the field of DNA synthesis, said in a leading Dutch newspaper, that pure phosphate methylated DNA is very difficult to produce, and easily contaminated. Six days after the publication internal criticism came to the surface. Buck colleague, professor Van Boeckel, also an expert in this field, had already criticized Bucks research a year before, and resigned because his warnings were not taken seriously. Van Boeckel had also been working on synthesis of phosphate methylated DNA, and knew how difficult it was to make such DNA-strands. A year before Bucks downfall, he came to the conclusion that Bucks longer strands could not be pure, because Van Boeckels research-assistant Kuijpers noticed that even a short phosphate methylated DNA wasn't stable. In May 1989 he invited one of Bucks research assistants to test their material on HPLC equipment in the lab of Organon, a Dutch pharmaceutical company. The measurement showed that the test material was not at all pure, but Buck refused to accept this fact. When Van Boeckel showed Buck a draft of the publication of his own research at the end of 1989, it resulted in a confrontation in which the University chose Bucks side. Van Boeckel and Kuijpers were ordered to stop their research, because \"it was too expensive and not productive\".\nThe doubts and criticism following the publication in Science led to a heated public debate in several Dutch newspapers and science magazines, and the University eventually acknowledged that the purity of the phosphate methylated DNA was still to be investigated. A committee was formed to investigate the proceedings and their conclusion (30 August 1990) was, that no phosphate methylated DNA could be traced. Also the committee reproached Buck for not paying attention to criticism from within his faculty. As a result Buck was dismissed as dean of the faculty. Goudsmit was requested to test the antisense material once again, but his enthusiasm had cooled, and Buck could not produce the pure phosphate methylated DNA in time.\nThe publication in Science therefore had to be retracted.\n\nA second investigating committee reported at the end of the year that the presentation of the results in Science bordered on fraud. The report also said that Bucks behaviour in his group was impermissibly harsh at times. The committee concluded that it disqualified him as a research leader. As a result, Buck accepted early retirement.\n\nAlthough Jaap Goudsmit generally was regarded as a victim in the affair, half a year later a journalist of a leading newspaper questioned his role in the débâcle. Goudsmit had reported the inhibition of HIV-replication, which was questionable, given the fact that the phosphate methylated DNA was not pure enough. Therefore a third committee investigated the work of Goudsmit and his group as well. The committee concluded that Goudsmit had not checked the quality of Bucks material. Also they saw shortcomings in the interpretation and presentation of the results. The committee concluded that Goudsmits research had been scientifically inadequate. Goudsmit did not go in appeal and could continue his work.\n\nHenk Buck never accepted the outcome of this controversy. Up to this day he persists in his opinion that he could produce sufficiently pure phosphate methylated DNA. In several interviews he said that he feels that he has been pilloried for making a sincere mistake. He published two articles in the scientific magazine \"Nucleosides, Nucleotides and Nucleic Acids\" in which he tries to retrace what happened, and he goes as far as to claim that the investigating committees were wrong.\nTo this day, however, nobody produced pure phosphate methylated DNA strands in the quality Goudsmit required. All the efforts from Miller, Van Boeckel and Buck resulted in short instable fragments. Recent researches in this field are based on methyl phosphonate or phosphorothioate DNA. At present (2008) only one antisense medication exists, based on phosphorothioate oligonucleotide: Fomivirsen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56528846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56528846", "title": "Horacio Castillo III", "text": "Horacio Castillo III\n\nHoracio \"Atio\" Castillo III (May 26, 1995 – September 17, 2017) was a 22-year-old Filipino student leader who was killed in a hazing incident performed by the Aegis Juris Fraternity, a law school fraternity affiliated with the oldest law school in Southeast Asia, the University of Santo Tomas Faculty of Civil Law. \n\nThe brutality of his death and the fact that the supposed perpetrators are affluent law students and lawyers affiliated with the prestigious Catholic University of Santo Tomas drew attention of the media to the case. Castillo was also a descendant of Philippine national hero and University of Santo Tomas alumnus Jose Rizal. Castillo was also a descendant of the Philippine General Miguel Malvar.\n\nCastillo figured in a fire in Paco, Manila 2005 where their whole family was rescued. Castillo finished his secondary education at Colegio San Agustin - Makati, and attended the UST Faculty of Arts and Letters. He attained his bachelor degree in Political Science in 2017, and was admitted to UST Law right after graduation. During his undergraduate years, he was a member of the Students' Democratic Party and The Political Science Forum. He enjoyed popularity in the university as an active voice of the student body.\n\nThe Senate of the Philippines have conducted hearings. The case is currently under the care of the Department of Justice. \n\n"}
{"id": "31933815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31933815", "title": "IMARK", "text": "IMARK\n\nThe Information Management Resource Kit (IMARK) is a partnership-based e-learning initiative developed by the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations and partner organizations to support individuals, institutions and networks worldwide in the effective management of information and agricultural development. IMARK consists of a suite of distance learning resources and tools on information management.\n\nThe Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations initiated a partnership-based e-learning programme in 2001 to support information management. IMARK is targeted at information professionals in developing countries. Each IMARK curriculum is designed through a consultative process with subject matter experts, field practitioners and representatives from the target audience from around the world. The IMARK initiative is a response to demand for enhanced information and knowledge management in the effort to achieve the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), especially those related to hunger and the information society, in the context of bridging the digital divide. The development goal of IMARK is to improve the capabilities of people concerned with information management and knowledge sharing.\n\nThe development goal of IMARK is to improve the overall effectiveness of programmes in agricultural development and food security by enhancing access to information by key stakeholders.\n\nIMARK has over 30 partners and collaborating institutions since its inception in 2001, and its activities are coordinated through a steering committee whose members include The Association for Progressive Communications (APC), Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations, the Agence Universitaire de la Francophonie (AUF), Commonwealth of Learning (COL), Groupe de Recherches et d'Echanges Technologiques (GRET), Bibliotheca Alexandrina and UNESCO.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41825389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41825389", "title": "Independent Public Schools", "text": "Independent Public Schools\n\nIndependent Public Schools (IPS) refers to an education reform first introduced in Western Australia in 2009 by the Department of Education (Western Australia). An independent public school is a state/public school that, while a part of the state education system, has been granted a higher degree of decision-making authority than a regular, non-independent state school.\n\nThe term, Independent Public School, has been increasingly used by other state governments in Australia, such as Queensland, to label similar reforms to the governance of their state schools. Federal Australian governments also use the term Independent Public Schools. In February 2014 the Federal Education Minister, Christopher Pyne, announced a $70 million Independent Public Schools Initiative to support 1500 state schools across Australia to become more autonomous.\nWestern Australia\n\nThe Independent Public Schools (IPS) initiative was launched in Western Australia in 2009 by then Education Minister Dr Elizabeth Constable and the State Premier Colin Barnett. The Independent Public Schools initiative in Western Australia is an opt-in program, meaning schools choose to become an independent public school. In 2009, primary and secondary state schools were invited for the first time to express an interest in becoming an IP school through an application process administered by the Western Australian Department of Education. Applying schools need to demonstrate their readiness for increased autonomy and accountability through demonstrating the principal and school administration have prudent and effective financial and staff management ability. Schools should also demonstrate that there is a benefit to the school of becoming an IP school, and that the school staff and local community support the application. Applications are assessed by an independent panel. In its first round, 34 schools were admitted into the program. These schools began operating as IP schools in 2010. Since 2010, the following number of schools have been admitted into the program: 64 in 2011, 73 in 2012, and 84 in 2013. A further nine new schools opened as Independent Public Schools in 2014. Over half of all public schools have sought to become Independent Public Schools since the initiative began in 2010.\n\nKey Features of IPS in Western Australia\n\nSchools granted IPS status choose to opt into a number of 'flexibilities' or 'authorities'. These include:\n\n\nIndependent Public Schools are also awarded a recurring payment of between $25,000 - $50,000 for administrative support, and $20,000-$40,000 one-off payments for transition costs.\n\nIndependent Public Schools and their principals must:\n\n\nIndependent Public Schools, its principal and board cannot:\n\n\nResearch and Criticism\n\nThe Independent Public Schools initiative has been justified on the grounds that system decentralisation and principal autonomy improves the educational outcomes of students. A review of the Western Australian IPS initiative commissioned by the Department of Education (WA) was undertaken in 2013. This review found that principals welcomed the flexibilities offered by the program. There was no evidence of any change to attendance, suspension or academic achievement. The review noted that it was too early for the initiative to demonstrate an effect on student outcomes. A study in Victoria, Australia, following self-managing reforms in that state found no direct cause and effect between the decentralisation of decision-making in planning and resource allocation, and improved learning outcomes of students. A recent review of the literature into the effects of school autonomy concludes there is no causal link between autonomy and improved student learning outcomes, however local decision-making can improve learning outcomes in particular circumstances, such as where there are strong accountability mechanisms and a focus on improving the quality of teaching.\nThe OECD has attempted to map the types and levels of autonomy across education systems, and to measure the impact of school autonomy on student performance. A comparison of the 2003 PISA results by the OECD concludes that different facets of school autonomy and accountability are associated with the level of student achievement - students perform better on average in schools with the authority to hire staff, but perform worse in schools with authority over formulating budgets. A comparison of the 2006 PISA results concludes that 'school level autonomy in relation to staffing, educational content and budgeting do not show a significant association with school performance. However, a system-level composition effect appears with regard to school autonomy in educational content as well as budgeting. Students in educational systems giving more autonomy to schools to choose textbooks, to determine course content, and to decide which courses to offer, tend to perform better regardless of whether the schools which individual students attend have higher degrees of autonomy or not'. A comparison of the 2012 PISA results concludes that school systems where schools have more autonomy over curricula and assessments tend to perform better overall, however the relationship between school autonomy and performance within countries is more complex, with factors such as accountability arrangements and teacher-principal collaboration in school management impacting on performance.\nScholarly concern is registered about the effects of self-management and the deregulation of school choice that has accompanied it. These effects include: increased administrative burden on principals; levels of resourcing required to effectively self-govern; and the intensification of 'the gaps between schools serving the rich and those serving the poor, gaps marked by growing differences in school size, student intake, resources and achievement'.\nOther research explicitly situates IPS in its political and policy context. IPS has been criticised as a New Public Management reform not directed at improving the educational outcomes of students, but at reforming the public sector, particularly through introducing managerialist and market values, practices and mechanisms. IPS is also understood as a regulatory regime aligned with neoliberal modalities of governing. Using a Foucauldian theoretical approach to the IPS initiative, the rationalities, techniques and practices of IPS have been understood as transforming the identities of principals around the neoliberal norms of entrepreneurship, self-reliance and self-responsibility.\n"}
{"id": "3400233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3400233", "title": "Intellectual inbreeding", "text": "Intellectual inbreeding\n\nIntellectual inbreeding or academic inbreeding is the practice in academia of a university's hiring its own graduates to be professors. It is generally viewed as insular and unhealthy for academia; it is thought to reduce the possibility of new ideas coming in from outside sources, just as genetic inbreeding reduces the possibility of new genes entering into a population.\n\nAccording to the Commission on Graduate Education in Economics (COGEE), they recognize it as \"a trend for emulation rather than diversification.\" Academic inbreeding has also been cited as a major problem in the major universities of the People's Republic of China—such as Peking University and Tsinghua University, which have adopted measures in recent years specifically to combat the practice—and South Korea. A relevant study also exists that analyzes the issue by considering Russia and Portugal as examples. \n\n"}
{"id": "1136561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1136561", "title": "International Astronomy Olympiad", "text": "International Astronomy Olympiad\n\nThe International Astronomy Olympiad (IAO) is an internationally recognized annual astronomy scientific-educating event for high school students (14–18 years old), which includes an intellectual competition between these students. It is one of the International Science Olympiads.\n\nThe Eurasian Astronomical Society founded the IAO in 1996.\n\nThe competing part of IAO consists of three rounds: a theoretical, an observational, and a practical. Problems of the theoretical round involve classical problems in branches of astronomy, astrophysics, space and planetary physics, and maybe hypothetical situations. The observational round involves recognizing stars, constellations, estimating star magnitude and angular distance, working with telescopes or other observational technique. The practical round consists of problems based on data results of observations, solutions propose analysis of these data. The chairman is Michael Gavrilov.\n\nThe style of the problems of IAO is aimed at developing imagination, creativity and independent thinking. They stimulate the students to recognize the problem independently, to choose a model, to make necessary suppositions, estimations, to conduct multiway calculations or logic operations. The rounds are not tests of speed or memory or knowledge of formal facts and data, and all basic data and formal facts are provided to the students. The ways of solutions are of the first priority in evaluations of the participants' solutions, while the correct formal final answer (formula or numerical value) does not play the determining role in the evaluation. Participants should have a possibility to exhibit the analytical capacities, and not just to do all procedures by hard rules. Also the jury board does not demand from participants to follow the way of solution that is written by the author or composer of the problem.\n\nThe International Astronomy Olympiad is carried out in the spirit of friendship and tolerance, where the competition is a stimulus for showing the participants' capabilities but contacts, exchange of ideas and collaboration between students, teachers and scientists from various countries have a primary importance. The competition at the IAO is not the only part of the programme.\n\nThe students for IAO are selected during National Olympiads and Camps of the participating states.\n\nTraditionally the teams of Armenia, Brazil, Bulgaria, China, Estonia, India, Indonesia, Italy, Korea, Lithuania, Moscow Land, Romania, Russia, Sweden, Serbia, and Thailand take part in the IAO. Bangladesh, Crimea, Iran, Kyrgyzstan, Ukraine and Belarus take part not regularly. Croatia, Czech Republic and Kazakhstan joined the competition at last years. A few countries plan to join IAO in the nearest future.\n\nMoscow Land and Crimea send teams apart from Russia and Ukraine. As organizers of the oldest open astronomical olympiads and competitions (since the 1940s), and due to their historical service in the formation and development of IAO they are considered at IAO as independent states with all rights and duties.\n\nThe Asian-Pacific Astronomy Olympiad (APAO) is a regional annual astronomy event for high school students from Asian countries. It provides a program for teams of students that did not qualify for the International Astronomy Olympiad (IAO) and the APAO follows the IAO on the calendar. The APAO was founded April 25, 2005 by IAO chairman.\n\nTeams of Bangladesh, Cambodia, China, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Kirgizia, Korea, Nepal, Pakistan, Asian part of Russia, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam took part in the APAOs.\n\nThe proud winner of International Astronomy Olympiad 2018 was Chahal Singh, studying in Delhi Public School (DPS) Pune, India. He also won a fancy prize money of 50 lakh Rupees due to his priceless efforts.\n\nOther International Olympiads related to Astronomy:\n\n"}
{"id": "45347059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45347059", "title": "J. Donald Monan", "text": "J. Donald Monan\n\nJ. Donald Monan, SJ (December 31, 1924 – March 18, 2017) was the Chancellor of Boston College from 1996 to 2017 and its 24th President from 1972 to 1996—the longest such tenure in the University's history. A native of Blasdell, New York, he joined the Society of Jesus in 1942. Monan earned a bachelor's degree, a licentiate of philosophy, and a Licentiate of Sacred Theology at Woodstock College. He then studied at the Université catholique de Louvain in Belgium, where he earned a Ph.D. in philosophy. He was ordained a priest in 1955.\n\nPrior to becoming President of Boston College, Monan served as Acting President, Vice President, Academic Dean, Chairman of the Philosophy Department, Professor and Instructor at Le Moyne College.\n\nWhen Monan took over as President, BC was approximately $30 million in debt and its endowment totaled just under $6 million. By the time he retired, the University's endowment had risen to over $500 million and the campus had greatly expanded to include such new buildings as O’Neill Library, Merkert Chemistry Center and Conte Forum.\n\nMonan has served as Chancellor of the University since retiring as President. Monan's memberships include the National Leadership Roundtable on Church Management, the Jesuit Philosophical Association, New England Province of Jesuits. the Society for Phenomenology and Existential Philosophy, and the Massachusetts Historical Society.\n\n"}
{"id": "31675294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31675294", "title": "Lean higher education", "text": "Lean higher education\n\nLean Higher Education (LHE) refers to the adaptation of lean thinking to higher education, typically with the goal of improving the efficiency and effectiveness of operations. Lean, originally developed at the Toyota Motor Corporation, is a management philosophy that emphasizes \"respect for people\" and \"continuous improvement\" as core tenets. Lean encourages employees at all organizational levels to re-imagine services from a customer's point of view, removing process steps that do not add value and emphasizing steps that add the most value. While the concept of \"customers\" and \"products\" is controversial in higher education settings, there are certainly diverse stakeholders who are interested in the success of colleges and universities, the most common of which are students, faculty, administrators, potential employers and various levels of government.\n\nLean in higher education has been applied both to administrative and academic services. Balzer (2010) described such initiatives within university settings, including the critical factors for success and ways to measure progress. He noted that LHE can be effective to respond to higher education's heightened expectations, reducing expenses in an era of rising costs, meeting demands of public accountability, and leveraging institutional resources to fulfill the educational, scholarship, and outreach missions of higher education. A comprehensive literature review examining Lean's impact on higher education has been published. The authors reported that Lean has a significant and measurable impact when used to improve academic and administrative operations. Such improvements are effective at the department/unit level or throughout an entire institution. However, the authors noted that implementing Lean is a serious undertaking that is most impactful if it involves long-term, strategic planning.\n\nThough the application of Lean management in higher education is more prevalent in administrative processes (e.g., admissions, registration, HR, and procurement) it also has been applied to academic processes (e.g., course design and teaching, improving degree programs, student feedback, and handling of assignments) in an increasing number of cases.\n\nPioneering academic institutions who have implemented Lean include: Cardiff University (Wales), Edinburgh Napier University (Scotland), Michigan Technological University (USA), Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (USA), University of Aberdeen (Scotland), University of Central Oklahoma (USA), University of St. Andrews (Scotland), Winona State University (USA) and others. A group of universities in the U.K. have formed LeanHEHub . In Scotland, the Scottish Higher Education Improvement Network (SHEIN) is a collaborative network of HE professionals working within the area of continuous improvement. SHEIN exists to encourage the sharing of resources and best practice, online and face-to-face.\n\nOf great importance in the application of Lean management in any organization is the recognition and daily practice of the Lean principles: \"Continuous Improvement\" and \"Respect for People.\" The \"Respect for People\" principle is challenging for management to implement, because most managers have risen to their level of responsibility based on their superior \"fire-fighting\" skills. With Lean, managers are coaches who guide their employees through a problem solving process. The employee learns how to ask themselves the questions that enable them to solve problems on their own, with the same or better quality that the manager would have achieved. Problems occur when managers cannot relinquish control, resulting in zero-sum (win-lose) outcomes for people and inferior results. In other words, one party gains at another party's expense, and the losers are much less willing to participate in continuous improvement. This outcome impedes teamwork and information flows, and discourages daily efforts by administration, faculty, and staff to improve processes. In order to function properly, Lean management must be understood and practiced in a plus-sum (win-win) manner. The \"Respect for People\" principle is required in order to sustain continuous improvement .\n\nThe origins of Lean practices date from late 19th- and early 20th-century industrial engineering. Lean practices have evolved over the decades since then to become much easier for non-specialists to understand and use. It is now common for people with backgrounds and interests far from industrial engineering to become highly competent Lean management practitioners. Therefore, the Lean management system has the benefit that everyone in an organization can apply the practices without the need for specialists.\n\nSeminal work in the application of Lean to academic processes was done by Prof. M.L. \"Bob\" Emiliani when he was at Rensselaer Polytechnic University in the early 2000s and is described in two papers: M.L. \"Bob\" Emiliani (2004) \"Improving Business School Courses by Applying Lean Principles and Practices,\" and M.L. \"Bob\" Emiliani (2005) \"Using Kaizen to Improve Graduate Business School Degree Programs,\". The former paper describes what individual faculty can do to improve their courses and delivery using Lean principles and practices. The latter paper describes what teams of faculty, staff, administrators, students, alumni, and employers can do to improve their courses using kaizen (literal translation: \"change for the better\"). Prof. Emiliani also produced a Kaizen Team Leader's Manual for improving academic courses and programs based on his work.\n\nThe use of Lean practices in academic processes are described in two papers written by Prof. Emiliani cited above (Refs. 2,3), and in the book \"Lean Higher Education: Increasing the Value and Performance of University Processes\".\n\nLean in HE follows the same principles and practices of Lean management as applied in service, manufacturing, or government sectors. Lean management readily takes into account the unique governance structures of higher education institutions. Lean management is responsive to the needs of multiple stakeholders in a non-zero-sum fashion and is therefore well-suited for the governance and ongoing improvement of HEIs.\n\nThe business of teaching in, or the back office administration of, Higher Education Institutions (HEI's) is similar to Lean management practiced in other service sectors because teaching and administration consist of repeatable transactional processes, in whole or part. Guidance for Lean implementation in HE administration, and, to a lesser extent in teaching, is presented in the book \"Lean Higher Education, Increasing the Value and Performance of University Processes\".\n\nThe impact of Lean in HE (namely in academic activities), have been studied and found to be potentially beneficial. The benefits include lead-time reduction, increase in throughput, lower cost, increased student satisfaction scores, etc. Reports analyzing Lean in higher education indicate that Lean principles are being successfully applied.\n\nThe principal criticisms of Lean management are well known, relatively few in number, and have been constant over time. Workers may view Lean management as undesirable if it is incorrectly implemented, because it could make them work harder, they might have less time to spend with customers, and, ultimately, they could lose their jobs. These criticisms, which will surely be voiced by faculty and staff in HE, are predictable and the result of zero-sum (win-lose) application of Lean management by senior managers.\n\nSupporters of Lean might assert that Lean management can be conducted in a non-zero-sum (win-win) manner—the criticism is simply a result of misapplication of the central concepts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50129954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50129954", "title": "Learning environment", "text": "Learning environment\n\nLearning environment can refer to an educational approach, cultural context, or physical setting in which teaching and learning occur. The term is commonly used as a more definitive alternative to \"classroom\", but it typically refers to the context of educational philosophy or knowledge experienced by the student and may also encompass a variety of learning cultures—its presiding ethos and characteristics, how individuals interact, governing structures, and philosophy. In a societal sense, learning environment may refer to the culture of the population it serves and of their location. Learning environments are highly diverse in use, learning styles, organization, and educational institution. The culture and context of a place or organization includes such factors as a way of thinking, behaving, or working, also known as organizational culture. For a learning environment such as an educational institution, it also includes such factors as operational characteristics of the instructors, instructional group, or institution; the philosophy or knowledge experienced by the student and may also encompass a variety of learning cultures—its presiding ethos and characteristics, how individuals interact, governing structures, and philosophy. In a soearning styles and pedagogies used; and the societal culture of where the learning is occurring.\n\nThe Japanese word for school, gakuen, means \"learning garden\" or \"garden of learning\". The word \"school\" derives from Greek \" (\"), originally meaning \"leisure\" and also \"that in which leisure is employed\", but later \"a group to whom lectures were given, school\". Kindergarten is a German whose literal meaning is \"garden for the children\", however the term was coined in the metaphorical sense of \"place where children can grow in a natural way\".\n\nDirect instruction is perhaps civilization's oldest method of formal, structured education and continues to be a dominant form throughout the world. In its essence it involves the transfer of information from one who is possesses more knowledge to one who has less knowledge, either in general or in relation to a particular subject or idea. The Socratic method was developed over two millennia ago in response to direct instruction in the scholae of Ancient Greece. Its dialectic, questioning form continues to be an important form of learning in western schools of law. Hands-on learning, a form of active and experiential learning, predates language and the ability to convey knowledge by means other than demonstration, has been shown to be one of the more effective means of learning and over the past two decades has been given an increasingly important role in education.\n\nThe operation of the educational facility can have a determining role of the nature of the learning environment. Characteristics that can determine the nature of the learning environment include:\n\n\n\"Culture\" is generally defined as the beliefs, customs, arts, traditions and values of a society, group, place, or time. This may include a school, community, a nation, or a state. Culture affects the behavior of educators, students, staff, and community. It often determines curriculum content. A community's socioeconomic status directly influences its ability to support a learning institution; its ability to attract high caliber educators with appealing salaries; a safe, secure, and comfortable secure facility; and provide even basic needs for students, such as adequate nutrition, health care, adequate rest, and support at home for homework and obtaining adequate rest,\n\nSeveral of the key trends in educational models throughout the 20th and early 21st century include progressive education, constructivist education, and 21st century skills-based education. These can be provided in comprehensive or specialized schools in a variety of organizational models, including departmental, integrative, project-based, academy, small learning communities, and school-within-a-school. Each of these can also be paired, at least in part, with design-based, virtual school, flipped classroom, and blended learning models.\n\nPassive learning, a key feature of direct instruction, has at its core the dissemination of nearly all information and knowledge from a single source, the teacher with a textbook providing lessons in lecture-style format. This model has also become known as the \"sage on the stage\". A high degree of learning was by rote memorization. When public education began to proliferate in Europe and North America from the early 19th century, a direct-instruction model became the standard and has continued into the 21st century. Education at the time was designed to provide workers for the emerging factory-based, industrial societies, and this educational model and organization of schools became known as the \"factory model school\", with curriculum, teaching style, and assessment heavily standardized and centered around the needs and efficiencies of classroom and teacher management.\n\n\"Active learning\" is a model of instruction that focuses the responsibility of learning on learners, not on teacher-led instruction, a model also termed student-centered. It is based on the premise that in order to learn, students must do more than just listen: they must read, write, discuss, or be engaged in solving problems. It relates to three learning domains referred to as knowledge, skills and attitudes (KSA) (Bloom, 1956), whereby students must engage in such higher-order thinking tasks as analysis, synthesis, and evaluation. Active learning engages students in two aspects – doing things and thinking about the things they are doing (Bonwell and Eison, 1991). (See Bloom's taxonomy).\n\nDifferentiated learning has developed from an awareness of the effectiveness of different learning styles which have emerged from late 20th/early 21st century neurological research and studies of the different learning styles. As the impacts of the factory model school's design on learning became more apparent, together with the emerging need for different skills in the late 20th century, so too did the need for different educational styles and different configurations of the physical learning environments. \"Direct instruction\" is now expanding to include students conducting independent or guided research with multiple sources of information, greater in-class discussion, group collaboration, experiential (hands-on, project-based, etc.), and other forms of active learning. Direct instruction's \"sage on the stage\" role for teachers approach is being augmented or replaced by a \"guide by the side\" approach.\nIn instruction based on differentiation, the classroom teacher alters the delivery and content of instruction for students based on each student's learning profile, readiness level, and interests \n\nProgressive education is a pedagogical movement using many tenets of active learning that began in the late 19th century and has continued in various forms to the present. The term \"progressive\" was engaged to distinguish this education from the traditional Euro-American curricula of the 19th century, which was rooted in classical preparation for the university and strongly differentiated by social class. Progressive education is rooted in present experience. Many progressive education programs include qualities such as learning by doing (hands-on projects, experiential learning, integrated curriculum, integration of entrepreneurship, problem solving, critical thinking, group work, social skills development, goals of understanding and action instead of rote knowledge, collaborative and cooperative learning projects, education for social responsibility and democracy, personalized education, integration of community service, subject content selection based on what future skills will be needed, de-emphasis on textbooks, lifelong learning, and assessment by evaluation of students' projects and productions.\n\nConstructivist education is a movement includes active learning, discovery learning, and knowledge building, and all versions promote a student's free exploration within a given framework or structure. The teacher acts as a facilitator who encourages students to discover principles for themselves and to construct knowledge by working answering open-ended questions and solving real-world problems. Montessori education is an example of a constructivist learning approach.\n\nA 21st century learning environment is a learning program, strategy, and specific content. All are learner-centered and supported by or include the use of modern digital technologies. Many incorporate key components of active learning.\n\nBlended learning is a learning program in which a student learns at least in part through delivery of content and instruction via digital and online media with greater student control over time, place, path, or pace than with traditional learning.\n\nPersonalized learning is an educational strategy that offers pedagogy, curriculum, and learning environments to meet the individual student's needs, learning preferences, and specific interests. It also encompasses differentiated instruction that supports student progress based on mastery of specific subjects or skills.\n\n21st century skills are a series of higher-order skills, abilities, and learning dispositions that have been identified as being required content and outcomes for success in 21st century society and workplaces by educators, business leaders, academics, and governmental agencies. These skills include core subjects (The three Rs), 21st century content, collaboration, communication, creativity, critical thinking, information and communication technologies (ICT) literacy, life skills, and 21st century assessments.\n\nDigital literacy is becoming critical to successful learning, for mobile and personal technology is transforming learning environments and workplaces alike. It allows learning—including research, collaboration, creating, writing, production, and presentation—to occur almost anywhere. Its robust tools support creativity of thought—through collaboration, generation, and production that does not require manual dexterity. It fosters personalization of learning spaces by teachers and students, which both supports the learning activity directly as well as indirectly through providing a greater feeling of ownership and relevancy.\n\nLearning environments are frequently organized into six pedagogical and physical models:\n\n\nPowell, S.R. & Driver, M.K. (2013). \"Working with exceptional students: An introduction to special education.\" San Diego, CA: Bridgepoint Education, Inc.\n\n"}
{"id": "3529861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3529861", "title": "Linux Professional Institute Certification Programs", "text": "Linux Professional Institute Certification Programs\n\nThe Linux Professional Institute (LPI) currently offers three different certification programs. The core certification program LPIC (short for Linux Professional Institute Certification) contains three different levels addressing distinct aspects of Linux system administration. LPI also offers an introductory Linux certificate called Linux Essentials, as well as a certification testing DevOps tools, called Linux Professional Institute DevOps Tools Engineer.\n\nLPI exams are delivered onsite at Linux and open source events, or through the network of the test centres such as Pearson VUE. The exams are made up of multiple choice questions with a single response, multiple choice question with multiple responses, and fill in the blank questions. Linux Essentials is a 60-minute exam with 40 questions, while all other exams are 90 minutes with 60 questions. LPI offers exams in the following languages: English, German, Italian, Dutch, Portuguese (Brazilian), Spanish (Modern), Chinese (Simplified), Chinese (Traditional) and Japanese, although not all exams are available in all languages.\n\nThe wider community of Linux professionals plays an important part in the objective development process for LPI exams. Once the LPI staff has developed a structure and description for a certification, community input is collected through a Job Task Analysis. The purpose of the JTA is to poll a large group of Linux professionals about the tasks a candidate would be expected to complete in a certain field. The responses are compiled and have significant influence on the shape the exam objectives.\n\nAs part of the certification maintenance and quality assurance, LPI does the review and revision of the objectives for each certification every three years. The exam items are written and screened by writers and supervisors, respectively. To assure the exam items are accurate and relevant, they are put through a technical review by a group of Linux experts. The following are the current version numbers for each of LPI’s certifications. The version numbers reflect which certifications have been around for the longest, and thus have required more updates over time.\n\nLPI is frequently updating its exams to keep pace with the ever-changing open source environment. For this reason, the validity of a LPI certification is 5 years. For example, if it has been over 5 years since candidate passed the LPIC-1, candidate would need to pass it again before receiving a potential LPIC-2 certification. Certifications can be renewed by certifying at a higher level (e.g. acquiring the LPIC-2 certification will renew your LPIC-1 for an additional 5 years). Acquiring an LPIC-3 certification will renew the LPIC-1 and LPIC-2, but not other LPIC-3 certifications. The exception is the Linux Essentials certificate, which has lifetime validity. \n\nThe Essentials Program was created for candidates who are starting a career in open source or who wish to test their level of Linux knowledge. The knowledge base acquired through the Linux Essentials program can serve as a stepping stone to the more advanced LPIC Professional Certification track for Linux System Administrators.\n\nLinux Essentials is an entry level certification that was introduced in 2012. This certification requires only one exam. It tests the candidate’s ability to use a basic command line editor and demonstrate an understanding of processes, programs and components of the Linux operating system. The Linux Essentials certification is not part of the LPIC and Open Technology certification program.\n\nThe current LPIC certification program consists of the LPIC-1 Certified Linux Administrator, LPIC-2 Certified Linux Engineer, and LPIC-3 Linux Enterprise Professional certifications.\n\nLPIC-1 and LPIC-2 are one track certifications focusing on Linux System Administration. LPIC-3 level of certifications has several specialities; LPIC-3 300: Linux Enterprise Professional Mixed Environment, LPIC-3 303: Linux Enterprise Professional Security, and LPIC-3 304: Linux Enterprise Professional Virtualization and High Availability.\n\nLPIC-1 and LPIC-2 certifications each require passing two exams, while each LPIC-3 level of certification requires passing a single exam.\n\nEach exam has a series of topics which make up the exam objectives. Each objective has an associated weight that corresponds to the frequency of exam questions from that objective.\n\nLPIC-1 Certified Linux Administrator was first published on 11 January 2000 and was originally called Linux Server Professional (LPIC-1). The certification was revised in 2005, 2012, 2015 and 2018.\n\nTo be awarded the LPIC-1 certification the candidate must successfully pass two exams, 101 and 102. These can be taken in any order.\n\nLPIC-1 certified professionals have the ability to perform maintenance tasks with the command line, install and configure a computer running Linux and be able to configure basic networking.\n\nPreviously the 101 exam was split into two alternative exams, one including questions on the RPM Package Manager, and the other on Deb (file format). After the update in 2005 these have been merged into a single exam, and candidates are expected to know about both topics.\n\n\n\nLPIC-2 is the second certification in LPI’s multi-level professional certification program. This certification was first published on 29 November 2001 under the name Linux Network Professional (LPIC-2). The LPIC-2 certification was revised 2013 and February 2017.\n\nLPIC-2 certified professionals have the ability to administer small to medium–sized mixed networks, supervise assistants and advise the upper management.\n\nPrerequisites: The candidate must have an active LPIC-1 certification to receive your LPIC-2 certification, but the LPIC-1 and LPIC-2 exams may be taken in any order.\n\n\n\nThe LPIC-3 Certification program represents the culmination of LPI's Linux Certification Program. LPIC-3 is designed for the enterprise-level Linux professional. The LPIC-3 program consists of a single exam for each area of specialty; LPIC-3 300 Mixed Environment, LPIC-3 303 Security and LPIC-3 304 High Availability and Virtualization.\n\nIn order to receive the LPIC-3 certification, candidate must have an active LPIC-2 certification, but the LPIC-2 and LPIC-3 exams may be taken in any order.\n\nPassing at least one of the 300 series specialty exams (300, 303 or 304) leads to the LPIC-3 certification.\n\nThe LPIC-3 300: Mixed Environment certification covers the administration of Linux systems enterprise-wide in a mixed environment\n\n\nThe LPIC-3 303: Security certification covers the administration of Linux systems enterprise-wide with an\nemphasis on security.\n\n\nThe LPIC-3 304: Virtualization and High Availability certification covers the administration of\nLinux systems enterprise-wide with an emphasis on Virtualization & High Availability.\n\n\nLinux Professional Institute DevOps Tools Engineer (or DevOps Tools Engineer for short) is the latest certification developed by LPI.\n\nDevOps Tools Engineer was published October 16, 2017. The certification tests proficiency in open source tools such as configuration automation and container virtualization, which are used to implement the DevOps collaboration model.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39750583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39750583", "title": "List of journalism schools in Europe", "text": "List of journalism schools in Europe\n\nThis is a list of journalism schools in Europe.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe MA program offers the following three distinct pathways: \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n• Goldsmiths, University of London\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28968436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28968436", "title": "Madeleine Isaksson", "text": "Madeleine Isaksson\n\nMadeleine Isaksson (born 1956) is a Swedish/French composer.\n\nMadeleine Isaksson studied at the Royal Academy of Music in Stockholm from 1979 to 1987. She received a diploma as a piano and ensemble teacher after studying under Gunnar Hallhagen, and then studied composition under teachers including Gunnar Bucht and Sven-David Sandström (composition), Pär Lindgren (electroacoustic music), Arne Mellnäs (instrumentation), and Bo Wallner (music theory and analysis). In 1987 she lived in Amsterdam for a year of studies with the composer Louis Andriessen. In the early 1990s, she moved to France, where she lives and works near Paris still today.\n\nIsaksson has composed for solo, duo, trio, quartet, ensemble, orchestra and vocal music.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29980545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29980545", "title": "Maria Helena Rosas Fernandes", "text": "Maria Helena Rosas Fernandes\n\nMaria Helena Rosas Fernandes (born 1933) is a Brazilian composer, pianist, musicologist, conductor and music educator. \n\nFernandes was born in Brazópolis in Minas Gerais state, and graduated in piano from the Brazilian Conservatory of Music of Guanabara State in piano and from the Superior School of Music Santa Marcelina in composition and conducting. \n\nAfter completing her studies, Fernandes worked as a choral conductor and music teacher at conservatories and published research on indigenous Brazilian music. Her works have been performed internationally and won awards including the 2006 Nancy Van de Vate International Composition Prize for Opera for \"Marília de Dirceu\".\n\nSelected works include:\n\nHer compositions have been recorded and issued on CD, including:\n"}
{"id": "14621698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14621698", "title": "Master of Science in Management", "text": "Master of Science in Management\n\nMaster of Science in Management, abbreviated MSc, MScM, MIM or MSM, is a Master of Science academic degree. In terms of content, it is similar to the MBA degree as it contains general management courses.\n\nAccording to a Financial Times ranking, the University of St. Gallen in Switzerland, HEC Paris in France offer the best Master in Management programmes in the world in 2016 and 2017.\n\nGraduates holding an MSc in Management have commonly studied the following subjects:\nIn Canada, a highly specialized MSc in Management is also quite common (ex: MSc in Management in Finance and Accounting). These degrees are meant to provide students with a highly specialized set of skills for industry or for further academic study.\n\nAs is the case with the MBA degree, as the number of school granting MSc in Management degrees has grown, so has the diversity of characteristics defining these programs. In most cases, the MSc in Management is an academic degree with no or some requirements for previous job experience, while the MBA is also a professional degree for persons with minimum 2–3 years job experience or 2nd class lower division honorers. However, there are also schools where the MSM degree is granted only to managers with extensive (typically 10 years or more) of work and managerial experience. Whereas MBA programs are open to people from all academic disciplines, about one third of the MSc in Management programs worldwide require a first degree in business or economics.\n\nSome claim the MSc degree is more theory-oriented, and some programs do focus on specific skill set development for managers, while the MBA degree can be more practice-oriented and financially focused. In some schools, the MSc in Management degree studies the academic discipline of Management, while the MBA degree studies the academic discipline of Business Administration. Thus, some MSc degree programs focus on research in a specialized area, while the MBA degree would place more emphasis on strategy. According to one school, \"While the MBA program focuses on the practical application of management theory, the M.Sc. in Management will provide for an advanced-level conceptual foundation in a student’s chosen field, and allow for the pursuit of highly focused research through a master’s level thesis.\"\n\nBoth degrees contain strong professional focus and are both very well suited for professionals wishing to improve positions in their respective industries. Most MSc in Management programs contain very directed content geared towards development of a particular set of leadership skills for the mid-career professional looking to improve their credentials. A typical degree MSc in Management can be completed in less than 2 years in an online accelerated program. Although, some can be \"completed 100% online in as few as 12 months.\"\n\nPersons admitted to the degree of MSc in Management are entitled to add the designation \"MSc\" or MSM after their names (e.g. Domeng Gomez MSc), while those holding an MBA can add the designation \"MBA\" (e.g. Domeng Gomez MBA). \nWhile the MBA degree was started in the United States, the MSc in Management degree is of European origin. There seems to be a tendency that the demand for MBA is saturated whereas the demand for Masters in Management is increasing.\n\n"}
{"id": "7136780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7136780", "title": "Mero sanu sathi", "text": "Mero sanu sathi\n\nMero sanu sathi (literally \"My Small Friend\") is a Nepalese-based free and open-source package of educational tools. Currently, Mero sanu sathi contains the following tools:\n\nIn 2007, the software was distributed on a number of One Laptop Per Child computers in the country.\n"}
{"id": "20947795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20947795", "title": "Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education (Zimbabwe)", "text": "Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education (Zimbabwe)\n\nThe Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education is a department in the Zimbabwean government which is responsible for the management of primary and secondary education within the country. The incumbent minister is Paul Mavima who was appointed in December 2017.\n"}
{"id": "34169427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34169427", "title": "Neutral buoyancy simulation as a training aid", "text": "Neutral buoyancy simulation as a training aid\n\nNeutral buoyancy simulation with astronauts immersed in a neutral buoyancy pool, in pressure suits, can help to prepare astronauts for the difficult task of working while outside a spacecraft in an apparently weightless environment.\n\nExtra-vehicular activity (EVA), working outside the space vehicle, was one of the goals of the Gemini Program during the 1960s. The astronauts were trained in the “zero gravity” condition by flying a parabolic trajectory in an aircraft that caused reduced gravity for thirty second intervals.\n\nThe Russian cosmonaut Alexey Leonov was the first to egress his vehicle while travelling in orbit above the earth. Shortly after, Ed White, Gemini IV, was the first American astronaut to egress a vehicle while in space. These were demonstrations of a capability to get out of and back into the vehicle but included no EVA tasks. The next three flights to demonstrate an EVA capability were Gemini IX-A, X, and XI. Each of these flights exposed problems with performance of EVA tasks. Working in pressure suits while in the constant weightlessness of orbital spaceflight was more complex and difficult than had been anticipated. NASA determined that training for EVA tasks required further development.\n\nIn July 1966 the Gemini Program joined in a NASA Langley Research Center contract to include an evaluation of Gemini EVA tasks. The contractor, Environmental Research Associates of Randallstown, MD had already begun developing a neutral buoyancy simulation capability in 1964. This capability for pressure suited subjects was initially developed in 1964 by utilizing an indoor swimming pool at a private school (McDonogh School near Baltimore). Initially, these early underwater simulations were simply designed to test the ability of subjects to move about mock-up airlocks and weights were not attached to the subjects. Quickly, Environmental Research Associates' submerged testing evolved into proper neutral buoyancy simulation, featuring weighted subjects and numerous safety divers on hand during given sessions.\n\nScott Carpenter was the first astronaut to evaluate the contractor's operation, in a \"wet workshop\" simulation. The task was to remove bolts while in a submerged simulated airlock. The bolt removal task was designed to create access to a spent S-IVB dome. Carpenter's evaluation of the simulation was favorable and NASA quickly provided mockups of Gemini vehicles and docking components to facilitate further development of EVA capabilities via neutral buoyancy training. Astronaut Gene Cernan first visited the McDonogh School indoor pool facility for post-mission evaluation of problems that he encountered during his Gemini IX-A EVA. NASA then modified the contract to include pre-mission training of Gemini XII astronaut, Buzz Aldrin. Astronaut Cernan also participated in this pre-mission training, as he was in a backup role to Aldrin as pilot of Gemini XII.\nAldrin trained for the original Gemini XII EVA version which was then revised to eliminate the task of using a manned maneuvering unit. Aldrin returned to the McDonogh facility and trained for the final version of his EVA. NASA considered the flight EVA to be a total success, and Aldrin again returned to McDonogh to perform a post-mission evaluation of the EVA. The post-mission evaluation verified the value of using neutral buoyancy simulation training before attempting all of the EVA tasks while wearing a pressure suit and working in the hostile environment of space. Aldrin himself recognized some minor flaws of neutral buoyancy training, but described the method to have a \"considerable advantage\" over Keplerian trajectory aircraft.\n\nAfter the successful EVAs in the Gemini XII mission, NASA constructed tanks for neutral buoyancy simulation: The Water Immersion Facility at the Manned Spacecraft Center and the Neutral Buoyancy Simulator at Marshall Space Flight Center. Following use of those facilities during the Apollo and Skylab programs, NASA eventually constructed the Weightless Environment Training Facility at the Manned Spacecraft Center in Houston and later the Neutral Buoyancy Laboratory, where Shuttle and Space Station astronauts are trained in neutral buoyancy. Astronauts and cosmonauts also train at the Yuri Gagarin Cosmonaut Training Center near Moscow. These accomplishments were summarized in a feature article published by the Baltimore Sun newspaper in 2009. In September 2011, the Gemini XLV Symposium included a review of these accomplishments by G. Samuel Mattingly and featured remarks by astronauts Richard Gordon, Tom Jones, and Buzz Aldrin.\n\nDuring the Skylab 2 mission, astronauts Conrad and Kerwin successfully opened a solar panel that had not automatically deployed after launch. To perform this task, the astronauts trained underwater in the Neutral Buoyancy Simulator at the Marshall Space Flight Center. However, due to differences between the design of the mock-up used for training and what they found at Skylab, the astronauts used makeshift tools and redesigned how they would accomplish the task while they were in outer space.\n\nAstronauts rehearse extra-vehicular activity tasks in underwater neutral buoyancy before attempting those tasks in space to gain an understanding that they cannot use their weight to provide a force and that they may move or reposition themselves if they provide a propulsive force in any vector, either planned or inadvertent. Articles describing neutral buoyancy simulation generally point out that the astronaut's spacesuit is made neutrally buoyant but that the astronaut still feels gravity inside the spacesuit so the fit of the suit is very important, and that moving around in water, a viscous fluid, creates drag that is not present in EVA.\n\nThe main purpose for an astronaut to egress the vehicle and go EVA is often to provide a force to push, pull, crank, squeeze or transport an object. While living in normal earth gravity people don’t generally recognize the use of their weight to provide a force. The simple task of opening or closing a door, for example, is complicated when an individual is standing on a slick sheet of ice, so the individual's weight does not provide a frictional coupling to the ground. The application of force is an action requiring a reaction and if the individual's feet are slipping, the force application is limited or non-existent. The individual feels gravity standing on the ice but they can’t use their weight to provide traction and they can’t shift their weight to provide force in a horizontal vector so they can’t force the door. Giving the door a shove and sliding back is using mass inertia and not using the individual's weight. Mass inertia can also be used during EVA, but doing so in a pressure suit can produce unintended results.\n\nAs stated above (in \"Need for simulation\"), the astronaut feels gravity inside the pressurized suit while immersed in water. However the astronaut-spacesuit combination, when properly balanced in neutral buoyancy as when in EVA, is weightless so the astronaut is, similar to standing on ice, unable to use weight to provide a force in any vector. The vector of any force is similar, if not exactly the same in EVA and in neutral buoyancy. The magnitude of the force, if static, is very similar and if dynamic is still similar although the force and vector used in moving large objects must be carefully studied and planned to make the simulation realistic. It is the inability to use weight in any vector in EVA coupled with the encumbrance of the pressure suit that makes task performance difficult.\n\nDrag is the other major concern identified in articles on neutral buoyancy simulation. Any motion in the water is subject to drag and requires a little more time (seconds) and a little more force (ounces) to compensate for drag compared to the same motion in EVA. Early in the history of neutral buoyancy simulation there was consideration of providing the immersed astronaut with small motors to compensate for water drag, but this was soon dismissed as an unnecessary complication. Only a small percentage of time is spent in translating to a new location, usually at low velocity, generally less than 6 inches per second. Even such low velocities are subject to drag but it becomes difficult to measure amid the minor currents in the water caused by other astronauts, divers and the water circulation system that add to or subtract from drag.\n\nIn EVA, most work is done slowly, carefully and methodically not because of the neutral buoyancy training but because that is how a task must be performed by a pressurized astronaut in weightlessness. It takes more force to accelerate a mass to a higher velocity, and then to slow the mass back down, than to move it slowly to its destination. It is also easier to control its movement if it is moving slowly. Thus, the drag of water on movement in neutral buoyancy simply necessitates a slowness of movement that is also appropriate to spaceflight.\n\nThere are other less obvious but important features that must be considered in underwater EVA training, such as the visual differences due to refraction at the air-water interface at the helmet's visor and position or attitude in the suit relative to the task. The personnel at the Neutral Buoyancy Laboratory in Houston plan and evaluate their simulations meticulously. Experienced EVA astronauts observing a simulation can advise as to how realistic is the task performance and recommend modifications.\n\nLearning and rehearsing an EVA task in neutral buoyancy gives an astronaut or EVA specialist confidence that the planned task may be accomplished. The timeline developed for task performance is similar to the time required in EVA. In general, it is considered that a task performed and practiced in neutral buoyancy simulation can also be performed in EVA. Neutral buoyancy, properly planned and conducted, works because it is a realistic simulation of the physical requirements of performing a task in EVA.\n\nThe other major method used to simulate microgravity is flight in a reduced gravity aircraft (a so-called \"vomit comet\"), an aircraft which performs a number of parabolic climbs and descents to give its occupants the sensation of zero gravity. Reduced-gravity aircraft training avoids neutral-buoyancy training's drag problem (trainees are surrounded by air rather than water), but instead faces a severe time limitation: periods of sustained weightlessness are limited to around 25 seconds, interspersed with periods of acceleration of around 2 \"g\" as the aircraft pulls out of its dive and readies for the next run. This is unsuitable for practicing EVAs, which usually last several hours.\n\n"}
{"id": "40618352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40618352", "title": "Northwest Accreditation Commission", "text": "Northwest Accreditation Commission\n\nThe Northwest Accreditation Commission (NWAC), formerly named the Northwest Association of Accredited Schools, is a non-governmental organization that provides accreditation to educational institutions in the Northwestern United States. The Commission accredits K-12, elementary, middle, and high schools; those offering distance education; non-degree-granting postsecondary institutions; and special purpose, supplementary education, travel education, and trans-regional schools in seven states in the northwestern United States. Formerly an independent entity based in Boise, Idaho, it is now a division of AdvancED.\n\nThe commission operates in seven states: Alaska, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, Oregon, Utah, and Washington. The Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities, which also serves this geographic territory, operates as the postsecondary equivalent of the NWAC.\n\nThe organization traces its history to 1917 when the Northwest Association of Secondary and Higher Schools was formed. In 1974 the association changed its name to the Northwest Association of Schools and Colleges. In 2000 it became the Northwest Association of Schools and Colleges and Universities, which disbanded and split into two separate organizations in 2004, with the Northwest Association of Accredited Schools handling the accreditation of schools and the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities handling the accreditation of institutions of higher education.\n\nIn 2005 the organization's practice of accrediting schools outside its primary service region attracted controversy after it accredited a school in New York that was found to be issuing high school diplomas without the necessary state authorizations that were supposed to be prerequisites for accreditation. Northwest Association officials explained that it had accredited schools located outside its primary service region because they were operated by an organization based in the region.\n\nIn January 2012 the Northwest Accreditation Commission became a division of AdvancED, which was formed by the North Central Association Commission on Accreditation and School Improvement and the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Council on Accreditation and School Improvement.\n\nOn December 5, 2011, the NWAC Commission and Board of Trustees voted at the annual meeting to approve new bylaws that officially made NWAC a division of AdvancED. Beginning July 1, 2012 all operations of NWAC are under the governance of AdvancED through its Northwest Regional Office. AdvancED has also a regional office in Delhi, India by the name of School for e-Education Research and Innovation (SERI). \n\n"}
{"id": "1825909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1825909", "title": "Pacific Northwest College of Art", "text": "Pacific Northwest College of Art\n\nThe Pacific Northwest College of Art (PNCA) is a private fine arts and design college in Portland in the U.S. state of Oregon. Established in 1909, the art school grants bachelor of fine arts degrees and graduate degrees including the master of fine arts (MFA) and master of arts (MA) degrees. It has an enrollment of about 500 students. PNCA actively participates in Portland's cultural life through a public program of exhibitions, lectures, and internationally recognized visual artists, designers, and creative thinkers. Dr. Donald Tuski serves as the school's president.\n\nThe college has eleven Bachelor of Fine Arts majors including: Animated Arts, Graphic Design, General Fine Art, Illustration, Intermedia, Painting, Photography, Printmaking, Sculpture, Video and Sound, and Creative Writing, and one minor in Art and Ecology. The college also offers graduate programs including: a mentor-based MFA in Visual Studies, a Low-Residency MFA in Visual Studies, an MA in Critical Studies, an MFA in Collaborative Design, an MFA in Print Media, a Post-Baccalaureate residency, and an MFA in Applied Craft and Design, offered jointly with Oregon College of Art and Craft as well as a dual-degree MA/MFA option. PNCA also provides continuing education in art and design to the local community.\n\nFounded in 1909 as part of the Portland Art Museum, the school was originally known as the Museum Art School with Anna Belle Crocker serving as the head of the school. After the Pietro Belluschi designed home of the museum opened in 1932, the school moved into the upper floors of the building. In 1981, the school changed its name to Pacific Northwest College of Art in order to reflect its independence from the museum. The independence was solidified in April 1994 when the college formally split from the art museum and was incorporated as a legal entity distinct from the museum.\n\nIn 1998, the college moved to its former campus in Portland's Pearl District. PNCA hired Thomas Manley in 2003 as president of the institution, replacing Sally Lawrence. Manley proposed a plan to the school's board in 2004 to expand the college and move towards Portland's North Park Blocks. This plan received a boost in 2007 when Hallie Ford donated $15 million to the school.\n\nThe school purchased the building housing the college in 2008, and also that year was given the 511 Federal Building by the federal government as part of a surplus building program. In 2009, the then independent Museum of Contemporary Craft moved into the DeSoto Building, which drained the museum's finances. This led to PNCA loaning the museum money, and to a partnership and possible merger.\n\nIn 2012, the school announced they would centralize their programs in Portland's Old Town at the 511 Federal Building. PNCA opened their first residence hall in August 2013 at a cost of $7.3 million, called ArtHouse. As part of its move to the Old Town area, the college sold its main building in the Pearl District in 2013 for $11.75 million. The school secured $20 million in loans from the Portland Development Commission in November 2013 to fund the renovations. Renovations were completed in January 2015, with classes starting at the new campus in February 2015.\n\nAs of February 2015, PNCA's main campus building is located at 511 NW Broadway in northwest Portland, in the Pearl District. Known previously as the 511 Federal Building, it is a former post office that is on the National Register of Historic Places. \n\nThe college opened its first student housing in 2013 with the completion of ArtHouse at NW Park and Couch. The six-story building has 50 apartments, plus retail space on the ground floor. Designed by architect Thomas Robinson, the project cost $7.3 million to build the modernistic structure. ArtHouse was built where Powell’s Technical Books was located and is managed by College Housing Northwest.\n\nPNCA's exhibition department is the Center for Contemporary Art & Culture (CCAC), which is a platform for cultural production including exhibition, lecture, performance, and publication. CCAC is directed by Mack McFarland and has exhibited artist such as Wangechi Mutu, Cauleen Smith, James Rosenquist, David Horvitz. CCAC is made up of two galleries, the 511 Gallery (formerly the Philip Feldman Gallery + Project Space) and the Dorothy Lemelson Innovation Studio. Additional exhibition spaces include Holt Gallery, Gallery 157, Gallery B10, and New Commons. The Lodge Gallery @ Allied Works Architecture host regular exhibitions.\n\nIn March, 2008, PNCA announced the U.S. Department of Education and the General Services Administration approved PNCA's application to make the 511 Federal Building a permanent part of the school's campus. Located on the North Park Blocks, the building was renovated for use by the college in 2014–15. After the $30 million in renovations were complete in February 2015, the building was renamed as the Arlene and Harold Schnitzer Center for Art and Design.\n\nThe school is accredited by both the National Association of Schools of Art and Design (NASAD) and the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities (NWCCU). PNCA is affiliated with the Association of Independent Colleges of Art and Design, the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities, the Council for Higher Education Accreditation, the Art Resources Consortium Northwest, the Oregon Independent College Association, and the Foundations in Art: Theory and Education.\nPNCA offers eleven undergraduate programs and seven graduate level programs. The college offers Bachelor of Fine Art degrees in majors including: Animated Arts, Communication Design, General Fine Art, Illustration, Intermedia, Painting, Photography, Printmaking, Sculpture, Video and Sound, and Creative Writing, and one minor in Art and Ecology. Graduate programs within the Hallie Ford School of Graduate Studies include a Master of Fine Arts (MFA) in Visual Studies, an MFA in Collaborative Design, a Master of Arts in Critical Studies, a Master of Arts in Design Systems, an MFA in Print Media, a low residency MFA in Visual Studies, and an MFA in Applied Craft and Design jointly offered with the Oregon College of Art and Craft as well as a dual MA/MFA degree program. In addition to degrees, the college offers four certificate programs in fine arts, graphic design, digital publishing, and illustration through its Community Education program. PNCA also offers Community Education classes for youth, high school students, and adults that serve more than 1,500 students annually.\n\nAs of 2017 there are 412 undergraduate students and 111 graduate students at PNCA as well as 26 students in the PNCA|Pensole program. The continuing education program serves approximately 1,450 students part-time each year.\n\nPNCA employs 94 faculty members (full- and part-time). All faculty are working artists and designers, many showing both nationally and internationally. Founding chair of the masters of fine art (MFA) in Visual Studies program MK Guth was curated into the 2008 Whitney Biennial.\n\nGlobal Studios offers off-campus educational opportunities within the United States and abroad. It includes short-term international instructor-led programs, international summer programs, and international internships in Tokyo, Dakar, and Pont-Aven, France. The semester-long programs include International Semester Exchange, Service Learning, AICAD Mobility Program, and New York Studio Program. International Semester Exchanges take place in France and Australia.\n\n"}
{"id": "11605525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11605525", "title": "Practice firm", "text": "Practice firm\n\nA Practice Enterprise (also known as a Practice Firm or Virtual Enterprise) is a practice company that runs like a real business silhouetting a real enterprise's business procedures, products and services. A Practice Enterprise resembles a real company in its form, organization and function. Each Practice Enterprise trades with other Practice Enterprises, following standard commercial business procedures in the Practice Enterprise worldwide economic environment. It offers a ‘learning-by-doing’ training programme with the aim to better prepare young people for their future careers and to increase their entrepreneurship potential through running their own Practice Enterprise.\n\nThe origins of the Practice Enterprise concept run back to the late 19th Century. Letter exchange clubs were formed in Europe as a way of training commercial communication. The letter exchange clubs became more and more popular and turned into the first practice bureaus around 1920 and were used in a number of countries across Europe.\n\nThe first structure to the practice bureaus was the “German Practice Economy” in 1934 and in 1948, the first central office for Practice Enterprises was established by the German Trade Unions. Thereby, a real practice firm market was formed which offered for example a database to connect, bank services resembling real bank systems, mail exchanges and trades with other countries, such as Austria, Sweden and Switzerland. In the 1960s, the first central office organising the services provided to the network was formed in the city of Heidelberg in Germany and the first fair for Practice Firms was held in a gymnastic hall in Northern Germany in 1964.\n\nIn 1993, a European project was funded by the European Social Fund and the German Federal State of North-Rhine Westphalia to connect the different networks around the world to an international association. The European project established the non-profit association EUROPEN which at that time was a department of the Bfz-Essen e.V. in Germany. As the association grew internationally and became an independent entity in 1997, it adjusted its name in 2005 to EUROPEN-PEN International emphasizing the members from across the world.\n\nThe Practice Enterprise concept is applied in different educational systems: from schools, colleges, universities, vocational training institutions, companies and further training centres worldwide. The primary target group is students from secondary schools and universities. Adults can also participate in the training programme, either as employees, jobseekers, and people with disabilities or women returning to work.\n\nThis applied way of learning, the ‘learning-by-doing’ methodology, allows people with all kinds of backgrounds to learn and improve their skills in a Practice Enterprise. Trainees get to know the real-life international business experience and learn and improve important skills such as language and communication skills, intercultural competences and various soft skills which are helpful in finding one’s own path and increase the employability.\n\nTrainees learn many different entrepreneurship skills such as Administration skills, Accountancy, Computer-based skills (ICT), Human resources management, Marketing and Sales, Purchasing, Business planning, International trade, and Time management. In addition, they also develop the necessary competences to become a better employee or entrepreneur, such as teamwork, problem solving, taking responsibility and developing self-initiative. Because of the international nature of the programme, trainees also learn about intercultural differences when doing business and additionally they have the opportunity to increase their language skills. The skills and competences gained in a Practice Enterprise can easily be transferred and adjusted to other markets, countries and potential work fields.\n\nGenerally a Practice Enterprise has the same key players and benefits wherever it is located. The trainees are the employees of the Practice Enterprise and run the business themselves whereas the teacher or trainer takes on the role of a mentor or coach.\n\nThe setting of a Practice Enterprise provides a way for trainees to learn practically through the ‘learning-by-doing’ methodology and also to get into the entrepreneurial mindset. The Practice Enterprise programme is designed in such a way that trainees take the responsibility for operating a virtual company and for the sale of products (for example pharmaceuticals, books, food, machinery) and services (for example, shipping, warehousing, events, travel, catering services) and for the revenues and expenditures of their company. Each company engages in business activities, both nationally and internationally with other companies within the Practice Enterprise network (for example, between Brazil and Spain), by following standard commercial business procedures and frameworks.\n\nEach company carries out market research, places advertisements, buys raw materials and stock, plans logistics, manufactures simulated goods, sells simulated goods or services and pays wages, taxes, benefits, etc. The actual transfer of goods and money happens virtually but the following transactions take place for real: orders are made, invoices issued and financial records maintained, including information about creditors, debtors, stock holders, etc.\n\nAll trainers involved in the Practice Enterprise programme are trained on workplace facilitation. Trainers receive guidelines and practical handbooks to run the programme and to assess the trainees based on the same set of criteria. Trainers in a Practice Enterprise take on the role of a coach or mentor for trainees, instead of the traditional teacher role.\n\nMost Practice Enterprises have a mentor company that comes from the real business world. A business mentor gives advice and ideas to the trainers and trainees about how a business is run and can advise on the sale of products and services within the virtual business. In some cases, business mentors are involved in the selection and recruitment of staff (e.g. students within the school or university).\n\nThere are standard requirements regarding equipment and IT (hardware and software) that need to be met for running the programme. To make the experience as realistic as possible, each classroom is divided into different sections that represent the different departments of a business such as reception, purchasing, human resources, operations and marketing.\n\nFairs for Practice Enterprises exist nationally as well as internationally and provide a good base to experience and test skills in another setting than the classroom or office. Through the participation in Practice Enterprise Trade Fairs, trainees get to represent their business to other national and international Practice Enterprises in person and also learn the preparation of a fair and booth, the professional representation in front of competitors and the follow-up after trades on the fair ground. During these fairs, a lot of competitions take place, varying from ‘Best Booth’ to other business challenges like elevator pitches and case studies.\n\n\nEUROPEN-PEN International e.V.\n\nVirtual Enterprises International\n\nDeutscher ÜbungsFirmenRing Zentralstelle\n\nFundació Inform\n\nACTIF\n\nHelvartis\n\n1. \"\"What is a practice firm?\". Canadian Practice Firms Network. Retrieved 30 May 2015.\"\n\n2. \"Alderman, Liz (29 May 2015). \"In Europe, Fake Jobs Can Have Real Benefits\". The New York Times - International Business. The New York Times company. Retrieved 30 May 2015.\"\n\n3. “Vocational Education”. Retrieved 12 June 2018.\n\n4. Paniagua, A. and D. Istance (2018), \"“Teachers as Designers of Learning Environments: The Importance of Innovative Pedagogies, Educational Research and Innovation”\", OECD Publishing, Paris. Retrieved 7 June 2018.\n\n5. \"“Skills Panorama: Inspiring Choices on Skills and Jobs in Europe”\", CEDEFOP. Retrieved 11 June 2018.\n"}
{"id": "10710502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10710502", "title": "Reprint", "text": "Reprint\n\nA reprint is a re-publication of material that has already been previously published. The term \"reprint\" is used with slightly different meanings in several fields.\n\nIn academic publishing, offprints, sometimes also known as reprints, are bulk reproductions of individual articles previously published in academic journals. Offprints from scientific, technical, and medical (STM) journals are used by researchers in some fields to generate awareness among audiences who don't subscribe to the journal e.g. physicians, consumers, investors etc. They are usually ordered directly from the publisher of the journal. However, some third-party service providers also exist, serving as an intermediary that provides a single source of offprints from multiple publishers.\n\nIn book publishing, if a reprint has been revised from an earlier version, it is usually referred to as a new edition rather than a reprint.\n\nIn collectible card games, a reprint is a card published in an earlier card set which is published again in a new card set. Often, the art on the card may be changed, or the text updated to reflect new errata.\n\nPublishers will reprint classic comic books from years or even decades ago, often restoring the art with newer techniques. The reprints may be standalone comic books, compilation trade paperbacks, or back-ups in other comic books.\n\nComic books which sell out may be given a second (or more) printing in order to bring more copies to the distributor.\n"}
{"id": "2794821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2794821", "title": "Sigurd Olson Environmental Institute", "text": "Sigurd Olson Environmental Institute\n\nThe Sigurd Olson Environmental Institute is an outreach arm of Northland College in Ashland, Wisconsin. A 1971 environmental conference at Northland with Sigurd Olson as a speaker was the origin of the institute. Robert Matteson was the founder of the Institute. The Institute opened in Spring, 1972.\n\nLoonWatch, a program of the Sigurd Olson Environmental Institute, protects common loons and their aquatic habitats through education, monitoring, and research. Though their primary focus is Wisconsin, their education and research activities extend to Upper Great Lakes region, such as Michigan and Minnesota. The Watch also lends support to North American conservation efforts by working with loon conservation organizations across the United States and Canada. LoonWatch, its Advisory Council, and volunteers are all working toward common goals of loon conservation and protection.\n\nIn 1974, inspirational conservationist and writer Sigurd F. Olson won the John Burroughs Medal for his book, Wilderness Days.\nSince 1992, and in the spirit of celebrating Sigurd’s literary legacy, the Sigurd Olson Environmental Institute (SOEI) at Northland College has recognized remarkable environmental adult literature that captures the spirit of the human relationship with the natural world, and promotes the values that preserve or restore the land for future generations. \n\nSince 2004, the SOEI has recognized a children's book of literacy nature writing—nonfiction or fiction—that captures the spirit of the human relationship with nature, and promotes the awareness, preservation, appreciation, or restoration of the natural world for future generations.\n\nThe Sigurd Olson Environmental Institute has a long history of combining programs, workshops, and outreach activities to assist with environmental protection and restoration in the Lake Superior region. Working collaboratively with private landowners, businesses, public agencies and tribal governments Northland College faculty, staff and students utilize a unique interdisciplinary approach to assessment, monitoring and planning. This collaborative approach provides services to the community and hands on engagement for our students. Current projects cover a spectrum that includes environmental monitoring, outreach education, community-based research, planning, and restoration. Specific examples:\nMonitoring\nWisconsin Department of Transportation: Roy Johnson West Wetland Mitigation Bank, Wal-Mart Supercenter stormwater basin, John F. Kennedy Memorial Airport Wildlife Hazard Assessment\nWisconsin Department of Transportation: Beartrap Creek Wetland Mitigation Bank groundwater.\nOutreach Education\nBrickyard Creek Learning Walks, Citizen Based monitoring, Tree Campus USA, Ecological Restoration\nCommunity Based Research\nWatershed Management: Bay City Creek, Brickyard Creek, Geospatial Interpretation, Multimedia Learning, Green Infrastructure\nPlanning and Restoration\nBony Lake shoreline restoration, Beartrap Creek Wetland Mitigation bank, Private Land Stewardship, Fish Creek Watershed Project.\n\nThe Lake Superior Binational Forum is a model partnership of 24 volunteer members from various sectors including small businesses, environmental organizations, industry, Native Americans, First Nations and academia. Its purpose is to provide input and analysis to the governments about critical issues relating to Lake Superior such as discharge of toxic substances, pollution prevention and restoration efforts. The members are also responsible for developing creative new strategies for eliminating pollutants and contributing toward the foundation of a sustainable economy.\n\nApostle Island School is an environmental education program aimed at providing regional youth with an outdoor experience to increase students’ awareness of both the regional history and the wide array of local resources of the Apostle Islands National Lakeshore and Lake Superior.\n\nIsland School runs each May and is held on various islands in the Apostle Islands archipelago. Sigurd Olson Environmental Institute started developing this unique learning experience in 1985 in cooperation with the Northland College Outdoor Education Department and the Apostle Islands National Lakeshore. For 19 years, the program curriculum and instruction has been led by outdoor education students at Northland College as part of their senior capstone. The Apostle Island School program works in collaboration with the Northland College Outdoor Education Department, the Apostle Islands National Lakeshore, and the Apostle Island Cruise Service.\n\nThe Apostle Island School hosts two different outdoor-educational experiences.\nDay Trips:Available for both fifth and sixth-grade students, the day is spent on Madeline Island in search of the island's history, natural ecosystems, geological formation, and growth/development of the historic town of La Pointe. The day includes a ferry ride, visitation of the Madeline Island Historical Museum or Big Bay State Park, Grant's Point Beach, a tour of La Pointe, and memories that will last a lifetime.\nResidential trips:Available to sixth-grade students, the two-and-a-half-day excursion begins by boarding an Apostle Islands Cruise Service boat in Bayfield, bound for Stockton Island, home of base camp for the next two nights. During the course of the trip, students will work on developing cooperative skills, participate in group cooking, explore Lake Superior, discover the natural history of the region, learn about the geological formation of the region, and participate in a multitude of fun-filled games.\n\nhttp://www.superiorforum.org/\nhttp://Northland.edu\n\n"}
{"id": "56166710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56166710", "title": "Smart Games Challenge (series)", "text": "Smart Games Challenge (series)\n\nSmart Games Challenge is a video game series developed by KnowWare and Smart Games. Three games were released between 1996-8.\n\nEach game consists of a series of minigames, designed to improve cognitive function.\n\n\"Smart Games Challenge\" was a commercial success, with 300,000 copies sold by early 1998.\n\n\"Smart Games Challenge\" was a finalist for the Computer Game Developers Conference's 1996 \"Best Trivia or Puzzle Game\" Spotlight Award, but lost the prize to \"You Don't Know Jack XL\". It was also the runner-up for \"Computer Gaming World\"s 1996 \"Classic/Puzzle Game of the Year\" award, which ultimately went to \"Baku Baku Animal\". The editors called \"Smart Games Challenge\" \"an inspired collection of every brain teaser imaginable\", and a game that \"promises puzzle fans an excellent mental work-out.\" However, it won the Codie award for \"Best Debut of the Year\".\n\nPC Game World gave it 68%. World Village gave it 3/5.\n\nIn \"Computer Gaming World\", Charles Ardai called \"Smart Games Puzzle Challenge 2\" \"brain food of a very high order, caviar for the cranium.\" He summarized it as \"the best bunch of brain-busters ever.\" Cindy Yans of \"Computer Games Strategy Plus\" wrote, \"This is simply the most comprehensive puzzle game around. Hands down.\"\n\nWriting for \"PC Gamer US\", Lisa H. Renninger called it \"one of the best puzzle collections we’ve seen in a long time\", and a vast improvement over its predecessor. She highlighted its \"terrific gameplay\" and \"great puzzle variety\".\n\nThe editors of \"Computer Gaming World\" named \"Smart Games Puzzle Challenge 2\" the best puzzle game of 1997, and wrote, \"Once again, Smart Games goes for substance rather than flash. But with brain-shattering puzzles like these, who needs fluff?\"\n\nPC Game World gave it 80%.\n\nIn \"Computer Gaming World\", Charles Ardai wrote of \"Puzzle Challenge 3\", \"Almost three years after they set the puzzle game standard, the folks at Smart Games are still the only ones doing it right.\" Although he felt that the designers had been forced to rely on \"sometimes esoteric\" puzzles, since their earlier titles included most of the accessible ones, he argued that \"no puzzle lover will leave disappointed.\" Ardai concluded, \"Unlike most series, which tend to start running out of steam by their third installment, \"Smart Games' Puzzle Challenge\" still has all of its original spirit and most of its creative spark.\"\n\n\"Puzzle Challenge 3\" was a finalist for \"Computer Gaming World\"s award for the best classic game of 1998, although it lost to \"You Don't Know Jack: The Ride\".\n\nGamespot gave it 7.2/10. Gaming Entertainment Magazine gave it 70%. Absolute Games gave it 65%.\n\n"}
{"id": "48461851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48461851", "title": "South East Asia Student Activities Conference", "text": "South East Asia Student Activities Conference\n\nEstablished in 1995, the South East Asia Student Activities Committee (SEASAC) is an association of international schools in and around Southeast Asia.\n\n\"The purpose of the organization is to promote student/school activities which provide and encourage opportunities for healthy competition, pursuit of excellence, social and cultural interaction and the development of friendships within the region of South East Asia.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38899657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38899657", "title": "Speaker's Lectures", "text": "Speaker's Lectures\n\nThe series of Speaker's Lectures were initiated by John Bercow, the Speaker of the House of Commons of the United Kingdom, from 2011. To mark the centenary of the Parliament Act 1911, Bercow commissioned a series of 11 lectures throughout 2011 covering some of the main political figures of the century. Each lecture was given to an invited audience in Speaker's House and was recorded for broadcast on BBC Parliament. In 2012 Bercow instituted a new 11 lecture series on the subject of the 'Great Offices of State' (those of Chancellor of the Exchequer, Home Secretary and Foreign Secretary). In 2013 the lectures were on the subject of 'Parliaments and Parliamentarians', given by leading Parliamentarians who have experience of other legislatures. The 2014 series concentrated on 'Parliamentarians on Public Policy'. In 2015 and 2016, Bercow instituted the theme of 'Parliamentarians on Parliamentarians', based on prominent Parliamentarians throughout history. The 2017 series focused on 'The Future of...' various political topics, such as the Press, Armed Forces, or Brexit.\n\nThe first series of lectures, starting in 2011, covered the careers of some of the great parliamentarians of the past 100 years. The subjects were:\n\n\nThe 2012 lectures surrounded the great offices of state. In introducing the first lecture, Bercow noted that his assistant had spotted that there were 11 sitting Members who had served in one or more of these offices but had not been Prime Minister, and that all had accepted his invitation to give a lecture. The lecturers were:\n\n\nThe 2013 lectures were given by leading Parliamentarians who have experience of other legislatures. The lecturers were:\n\n\nThe 2014 series of lectures was given by Members of Parliament and Members of the House of Lords with a particular expertise or interest in specific areas of public policy. The lectures and subjects are:\n\n\nThe 2015 series covered famous Parliamentarians from history. The subjects were:\n\n\nThe 2016 series covered noted Parliamentarians from recent history. The lecturers were:\n\n\nThe 2017 lecture covered the future of various issues, institutions, and causes. In this series Bercow also introduced a respondent, often a speaker external to Parliament.\n\n"}
{"id": "801472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=801472", "title": "Team 10", "text": "Team 10\n\nTeam 10 — just as often referred to as Team X or Team Ten — was a group of architects and other invited participants who assembled starting in July 1953 at the 9th Congress of the International Congresses of Modern Architecture (CIAM) and created a schism within CIAM by challenging its doctrinaire approach to urbanism.\n\nThe group's first formal meeting under the name of Team 10 took place in Bagnols-sur-Cèze in 1960. The last, with only four members present, was in Lisbon in 1981.\n\nTeam 10's core group consists of Pancho Guedes, Rolf Gutmann, Geir Grung, Oskar Hansen, Reima Pietilä, Charles Polonyi, Brian Richards, Jerzy Soltan, Oswald Mathias Ungers, John Voelcker, and Stefan Wewerka.\n\nThey referred to themselves as \"a small family group of architects who have sought each other out because each has found the help of the others necessary to the development and understanding of their own individual work.\" Team 10's theoretical framework, disseminated primarily through teaching and publications, had a profound influence on the development of architectural thought in the second half of the 20th century, primarily in Europe.\n\nTwo different movements emerged from Team 10: the New Brutalism of the English members (Alison and Peter Smithson) and the Structuralism of the Dutch members (Aldo van Eyck and Jacob Bakema).\n\nTeam 10's core group started meeting within the context of CIAM, the international platform for modern architects founded in 1928.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7463332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7463332", "title": "Theoretical Advanced Study Institute", "text": "Theoretical Advanced Study Institute\n\nThe Theoretical Advanced Study Institute or TASI is a four-week summer school in high-energy physics or astrophysics held yearly at the University of Colorado at Boulder. The school is meant primarily for advanced graduate students and consists of a series of pedagogical lectures on selected topics given by active researchers in the field. TASI is the most common summer school attended by high-energy physics graduate students in the United States.\n\nWriteups of the TASI lectures are traditionally collected into a published volume each year, creating a valuable resource for students hoping to learn about current research topics in an accessible way. The writeups are typically also posted by the lecturers on arXiv.org, providing freely-accessible web-based sources on various physics topics. Since 2007, TASI has also posted video recordings of the lectures online.\n\nThe first TASI was held in 1984 at the University of Michigan. Subsequent TASIs were held at Yale (1985), Santa Cruz (1986), Santa Fe (1987), and Brown (1988). Since 1989 TASI has been located in Boulder.\n\n"}
{"id": "51685313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51685313", "title": "Thorvald Boye", "text": "Thorvald Boye\n\nThorvald Boye (1 February 1871 – 10 December 1943) was a Norwegian Supreme Court Justice, educator and legal scholar.\n\nHe was born in Arendal to Albert Boye and Johanne Hansen. He graduated as cand.jur. in 1894 and dr. jur. in 1912. \nHe continued his studies at the universities of Berlin, Geneva and Paris. From 1913, he worked in the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs (\"Sosialdepartementet\"). He also taught national and international law at the Norwegian Military College and University of Oslo.\nHe was named as a Supreme Court Justice from 1922.\nHe was married to Mia Esmarch (1880–1966). They were the parents of diplomat Thore Boye. In 1901, he was awarded the Crown Prince's gold medal (\"Kronprinsens gullmedalje\") by the University of Oslo. He was decorated Commander of the Order of the Dannebrog, Commander of the Order of the Polar Star and Commander of the Order of Vasa.\n\n"}
{"id": "32368768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32368768", "title": "UNAH Library", "text": "UNAH Library\n\nUNAH Library System at National Autonomous University of Honduras, founded in 1968, is a free support for students, teachers and researchers.\n\nUNAH Library began as the library for CURN in 1970, but later was renamed UNAH Library. Every campus of UNAH has its own library that forms part of the library system.\n\nUNAH has more than 16,000 volumes that include, books, magazines and ebooks.\n\nThe library system of UNAH is composed of three parts:\n\n\nThe central library is located in the administrative building, at the center of university city in Tegucigalpa, it is composed of six rooms:\n\n\nCentral library is in the same building of learning source center (CRA), which has movies, films, and rooms for presentation and exhibitions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15536273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15536273", "title": "UNESCO Chair in Telemedicine", "text": "UNESCO Chair in Telemedicine\n\nUNESCO Chair of Telemedicine (UNES_CT) is a portion of UNESCO that was founded in 1999. It undertakes international activities related to the promotion of the information society and fights against technology transfer problems having the role of an “intermediate body”. The Chair is the first UNESCO Telemedicine Chair, and his activity is related with development and diffusion of Telemedicine and Information Society in Health Care in developing areas and undeveloped countries particularly South-America and Africa.\n\nThe expertise of the UNESCO chair of Telemedicine as a University Institution is based in the previous CATAI’s expertise founded in 1994 in the field of Information Society/Telemedicine with which is collaborating closely and from which received part of the sponsorship.\n\nActivities include: training and teaching aspects, to gain a minimal structured knowledge in Medical Informatics, have established the “Telemedicine Body of Knowledge” covering sociology, economics, technology transfer, technology and organizational issues, standardization, security and liability aspects in co-operation with the Universities of Queens-UK, Aveiro-PT, Belfast-IRL, Genova-IT, Innsbruck-AU, Udine-IT, Berlin-D, Athens-GR. CATAI published the first text-book of Telemedicine in English, complemented with a CD multimedia material particularly designed for developing countries, worldwide known by Winter and Summer Courses of Telemedicine training following the “Telemedicine Body of Knowledge\". At the present moment the book is translated into 6 languages (SP, E, IT, GR, FR, D) and is published in Spanish (PanAmerican Editorial) with title : “Telemedicine” 2001. Is participating in all editions of the European Telemedicine Glossary edited by the EC-DG Information Society. In the 4th Ed-2002 is the author of the Electronic Clinical Record.\n\nCATAI developed the Videophone network in the Canary Islands in 1991 for distant support. At the present it includes the best practice implementation pilots in phone medicine (oncology -particularly home-care- and psychiatry -particularly childhood psychiatry), Tele-ECG and Tele-ultrasounds -particularly obstetrics and gynaecology.\n\nFirst in the world (1991) to carry out distant DNA quantitation, it was applied to image analysis prognostic factors in breast cancer. Objective image analysis and prognostic factors have been incorporated into the regional breast cancer registry of 3000 patients (see above);\n\nCATAI was the promoter of the Centre of Excellence in Telemedicine, sponsored by Science Park DG-XIII, with enrolment of 3 continents: Europe, Africa and America to concentrate best practice examples as well as top experts to implement real world applications and development of hardware-software systems ready to be used. These activities link mainly technological firms of the UK and Germany.\n\nThe UNESCO chair was leader of two EU projects (Leonardo-DG XXII ; Science Park-DGXIII) and participating in other two (DGXIII- Teleultrasound for developing countries; Leonardo-DGXXII Teaching Medical informatics). Leader in Canary Islands and in the main land - Barcelona- of a project on Telephonic Medicine. Partner in 5 EU projects ( Smart-USB; KOD or knowledge on demand, ASKLEPIOS, CHS or Citizen Home Services, CATAI-CTC)\n\nUNESCO Chair of Telemedicine was involved in developing countries health support through the Midjan group-ITU-D working group of Telemedicine, TeleInViVo ultrasound devices with pilots in Katastan, Mali and Uganda. Additionally, the UNESCO chair was promoted the network of Telemedicine together with Argentina, Venezuela, Peru, and participated in ITU-Developing Word Congress in Malta 1997, and Georgia Telemedicine meeting in 1999. Is currently actively working with South-America ( Venezuela, Argentina, Cuba, Chile, Peru) and Africa (Uganda, Kenya)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1300547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1300547", "title": "University of Chittagong", "text": "University of Chittagong\n\nUniversity of Chittagong () is a public research university with multidisciplinary faculties situated across a 1754-acre hilly landmass in Jungle Poshchim-potti area of Fatehpur Union of Hathazari Upazila, 22 kilometres north of Chittagong city of Bangladesh. This is the largest public university in the country in terms of total area of the campus. The university has been ranked number two on the Bangladesh University Ranking 2018 by Webometrics. The academic activities of the university formally began on 18 November, 1966. It has about 24,000 students and more than 1000 faculty members. \n\nUniversity of Chittagong is located in Fatehpur Union, Hathazari Upazila about 22 kilometres north of the Chittagong city around 1754 acres of hilly and flat land.\n\nFrom the beginning of the 20th century the enlightened section of local people was pressing to set up a university in Chittagong. Necessary grants for the construction of Chittagong University were allocated on 9 March 1964 in the meeting of National Economic Council. \n\nProfessor of History, University of Rajshahi and Ex-Curator of Varendra Research Museum Dr Azizur Rahman Mallick was made the Project Director of Chittagong University on 3 December 1965. He set up the project office of the university at a building 'Kahkashan' on road no 3, Nasirabad Housing Society, Chittagong. All the officers and staffs of the university wing, Department of Education were transferred to the Chittagong University Project office through a gazette notification issued on 14 December 1965. A master plan of the university was prepared through 'Bastukala', an organisation led by Architect Mazharul Islam. Initially a two-storeyed administrative building, departmental offices, classrooms and a library building were built. Student hostels and a teachers' dormitory were also constructed in the first phase.\n\nDr. Azizur Rahman Mallick was appointed as the first Vice Chancellor of Chittagong University through the Chittagong University Ordinance promulgated on 25 September 1966. The classes of M A (preliminary) of Bangla, English, History and Economics departments under the Faculty of Arts began first from 18 November 1966 with only 200 students and seven teachers. Dr. Abdul Karim joined as the Reader and head of the Department of History while Mohammad Ali and Dr. Shafiul Alam were appointed as Reader and Head of the Departments of English and Economics respectively. Abul Kalam Manzor Morshed joined as a Senior Lecturer in Bangla. Professor Syed Ali Ahsan was the first full professor of Chittagong University.\n\nDr. Iftekhar told , “Our main target is to explore the modern education and research, ensuring information and technology-based study and according to the light of digital thinking of Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina”. “University is a family. So, we need cooperation of all the members to run the institution fairly”, he added. \n\nEarlier on June 2, 2015 President of the country M Abdul Hamid, also chancellor of the CU, had appointed Dr. Iftekhar Uddin as the 17th VC of the university. He thanked President Abdul Hamid, Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina and Education Minister Nurul Islam Nahid. Born on July 1, 1955, at North Kattoli of the port city, Dr. Iftekhar achieved PhD in Sociology from University of Tsukuba in Japan in March 1988. The new VC completed his masters and bachelor degrees from Sociology Department in Chittagong University in 1981 and 1976 respectively. \n\nHe also got Bachelor of Law (LL.B.) from the same university in 1978. Dr Iftekhar was a pro-VC from May 30, 2013 to June, 2015. He served as the chairman of Sociology Department, president of Chittagong University Teachers’ Association (CUTA), and a secretary general of Bangladesh University Teachers’ Federation.\n\nDifferent faculties of Chittagong University conduct course work and examinations on behalf of several other bodies like Bangladesh Military Academy, (Bhatiari), Bangladesh Marine Academy (Patenga), Bangladesh College of Forestry (Sholoshahar), Chittagong College of Fine Arts and Bangladesh Navel Academy (Patenga). The University of Chittagong awards honours, post-graduation, MBBS, DVM degrees and diploma beside higher degrees like MPhil, PhD, MD and MPH.\n\nThe teachers, students, officials and staff of Chittagong University had played a significant role during the war of liberation in 1971. A council of the University was constituted to intensify the struggle for liberation in a meeting held on 8 March 1971 with Vice Chancellor Dr AR Mallick in the chair. One teacher, eleven students and three staff members of the university embraced martyrdom in the war of liberation. Mohammad Hossain, an employee of the Engineering department of Chittagong University was honored with the gallantry award of 'Bir Protik' for his heroic role in the war of liberation.\n\nChittagong University regularly publishes some journals and research periodicals. These include the Chittagong University Studies a research publication centrally published by the university; Pandulipi published by the Department of Bangla and Eco by the Department of Economics. The central library of the university has over 300 thousand books, 3500 journals and Internet facilities. The Chittagog University Museum set up beside the library has been playing a leading role in preserving the archaeological objects discovered in this region.\n\nStudents of the University regularly participate in various creative activities, cultural competition, sports, debate competition, bncc and Rover Scouts program beside the academic activities. In 2010, Chittagong University had nine residential halls for the students, one hostel and residential quarters for teachers and staffs. It had 18,781 students, 648 teachers and 1947 supporting staffs and officers.\n\nThe first convocation of Chittagong University was held in 1994. Earlier in 1981, a special convocation was held to award an honorary DSc degree to Nobel Lauriat physicist and world famous scientist Abdus Salam. A special professor's chair has been created in Chittagong University after the name of national poet kazi nazrul islam. [Fayezul Azim]\n\nFollowing is the complete list of the Vice-chancellors.\n\n\n\nThe Chittagong University Library is situated on the university campus, and since 1990, has been housed in its own building of 56,700 square feet. The library is managed by a 14-member Library Committee. The library collection consists of about 350,000 books and over 40,000 bound journals.\n\nThe Chittagong University Museum was established on 14 June 1973. The museum started with a collection of artifacts from the History Department. It collected fossils from Nasirabad hills. The museum build up a collection of historical artifacts and painting.\n\nThere are currently 12 residential halls at the University of Chittagong, out of which 8 are boy's halls and 4 are girl's \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1058920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1058920", "title": "Woodcraft (youth movement)", "text": "Woodcraft (youth movement)\n\nWoodcraft is a recreational/educational program devised by Ernest Thompson Seton in 1902, for young people based on camping, outdoor skills and woodcrafts. Thompson Seton's Woodcraft ideas were incorporated into the early Scout movement, but also in many other organisations in many countries.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, Quaker Ernest Westlake founded the Order of Woodcraft Chivalry in 1916. The OWC is the main, family-oriented group that holds activities and camps throughout the year in several Lodges. John Hargrave broke away from the OWC to found the Kindred of the Kibbo Kift. Another of the active, surviving UK organisations is the Woodcraft Folk, a socialist group originally affiliated with the Co-Operative movement that broke away from Kibbo Kift in the 1920s. They hold weekly meetings similar to Scouts. Another breakaway from the OWC, Forest Schools, revived after World War II to form Forest School Camps taking urban children into country areas in the UK.\n\nFormally established in Los Angeles in 1922, the largest and most active Woodcraft organization is Los Angeles' Woodcraft Rangers, which has a history of providing programs for children in the under-served areas of greater Los Angeles. Currently, Woodcraft Rangers reaches out to over 18,000 at-risk young people annually through enriching after-school and camping programs. The organization’s programs are responsive to social trends and designed to help children mature into healthy, productive adults through positive experiences and age-appropriate challenges. Over the decades Woodcraft Rangers has modified Seton’s original emphasis on outdoor life to incorporate activities that meet the needs of an increasingly urban population, but the goal of changing behavior and encouraging positive outcomes through interaction and education remains central to what they do today. By providing structured activities, a safe environment, and adult guidance after school, Woodcraft Rangers offers a positive alternative to the boredom and negative peer pressures that can lead to juvenile delinquency. As it has since Seton's time, the agency’s American Camp Association accredited summer camp programs at Blue Sky Meadow focus on outdoor living skills and nature activities. Campers are encouraged to explore and test their strengths and build character in a safe and supportive environment. After participating in nature hikes, archery, scavenger hunts, map & compass adventures, arts & crafts, survival skills games and star-gazing, campers return home with a better understanding of the outdoor world and greater confidence in their abilities. Summer camp also provides an opportunity for kids to just be kids – to have fun while forging lifelong friendships, developing important skills and discovering new interests.\n\nMany groups were founded elsewhere in Europe in the inter-war years. Typical was the Czech Woodcraft League, founded in the 1920s by Milos Seifert; it grew in its early years but was suppressed for half a century, first by the Nazis and then by the Communists. It survived by guile and misdirection, emerging with the fall of Communism, a small but dedicated organisation with members of all ages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44940", "title": "World Heritage site", "text": "World Heritage site\n\nA World Heritage site is a landmark or area which is selected by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) as having cultural, historical, scientific or other form of significance, and is legally protected by international treaties. The sites are judged important to the collective interests of humanity.\n\nTo be selected, a World Heritage site must be an already classified landmark, unique in some respect as a geographically and historically identifiable place having special cultural or physical significance (such as an ancient ruin or historical structure, building, city, complex, desert, forest, island, lake, monument, mountain, or wilderness area). It may signify a remarkable accomplishment of humanity, and serve as evidence of our intellectual history on the planet.\n\nThe sites are intended for practical conservation for posterity, which otherwise would be subject to risk from human or animal trespassing, unmonitored/uncontrolled/unrestricted access, or threat from local administrative negligence. Sites are demarcated by UNESCO as protected zones. The list is maintained by the international World Heritage Program administered by the UNESCO World Heritage Committee, composed of 21 states parties which are elected by their General Assembly.\n\nThe programme catalogues, names, and conserves sites of outstanding cultural or natural importance to the common culture and heritage of humanity. Under certain conditions, listed sites can obtain funds from the World Heritage Fund. The program began with the \"Convention Concerning the Protection of the World's Cultural and Natural Heritage\", which was adopted by the General Conference of UNESCO on 16 November 1972. Since then, 193 state parties have ratified the convention, making it one of the most widely recognized international agreements and the world's most popular cultural program.\n\nAs of July 2018, a total of 1,092 World Heritage sites (845 cultural, 209 natural, and 38 mixed properties) exist across 167 countries. Italy, with 54 sites, has the most of any country, followed by China (53), Spain (47), France (44), Germany (44), India (37), and Mexico (35).\n\nIn 1954, the government of Egypt decided to build the new Aswan High Dam, whose resulting future reservoir would eventually inundate a large stretch of the Nile valley containing cultural treasures of ancient Egypt and ancient Nubia. In 1959, the governments of Egypt and Sudan requested UNESCO to assist their countries to protect and rescue the endangered monuments and sites. In 1960, the Director-General of UNESCO launched an appeal to the member states for an International Campaign to Save the Monuments of Nubia. This appeal resulted in the excavation and recording of hundreds of sites, the recovery of thousands of objects, as well as the salvage and relocation to higher ground of a number of important temples, the most famous of which are the temple complexes of Abu Simbel and Philae. The campaign, which ended in 1980, was considered a success. As tokens of its gratitude to countries which especially contributed to the campaign's success, Egypt donated four temples: the Temple of Dendur was moved to the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City, the Temple of Debod was moved to the Parque del Oeste in Madrid, the Temple of Taffeh was moved to the Rijksmuseum van Oudheden in the Netherlands, and the Temple of Ellesyia to Museo Egizio in Turin.\n\nThe project cost $80 million, about $40 million of which was collected from 50 countries. The project's success led to other safeguarding campaigns: saving Venice and its lagoon in Italy, the ruins of Mohenjo-daro in Pakistan, and the Borobodur Temple Compounds in Indonesia. UNESCO then initiated, with the International Council on Monuments and Sites, a draft convention to protect the common cultural heritage of humanity. \n\nThe United States initiated the idea of cultural conservation with nature conservation. The White House conference in 1965 called for a \"World Heritage Trust\" to preserve \"the world's superb natural and scenic areas and historic sites for the present and the future of the entire world citizenry\". The International Union for Conservation of Nature developed similar proposals in 1968, and they were presented in 1972 to the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment in Stockholm. Under the World Heritage Committee, signatory countries are required to produce and submit periodic data reporting providing the World Heritage Committee with an overview of each participating nation's implementation of the World Heritage Convention and a \"snapshot\" of current conditions at World Heritage properties.\n\nA single text was agreed on by all parties, and the \"Convention Concerning the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage\" was adopted by the General Conference of UNESCO on 16 November 1972.\n\nThe Convention came into force on 17 December 1975. As of May 2017, it has been ratified by 193 states parties, including 189 UN member states plus the Cook Islands, the Holy See, Niue, and the State of Palestine. Only four UN member states have not ratified the Convention: Liechtenstein, Nauru, Somalia and Tuvalu.\n\nA country must first list its significant cultural and natural sites; the result is called the Tentative List. A country may not nominate sites that have not been first included on the Tentative List. Next, it can place sites selected from that list into a Nomination File.\n\nThe Nomination File is evaluated by the International Council on Monuments and Sites and the World Conservation Union. These bodies then make their recommendations to the World Heritage Committee. The Committee meets once per year to determine whether or not to inscribe each nominated property on the World Heritage List and sometimes defers or refers the decision to request more information from the country which nominated the site. There are ten selection criteria – a site must meet at least one of them to be included on the list.\n\nUp to 2004, there were six criteria for cultural heritage and four criteria for natural heritage. In 2005, this was modified so that there is now only one set of ten criteria. Nominated sites must be of \"outstanding universal value\" and meet at least one of the ten criteria. These criteria have been modified or/amended several times since their creation.\n\nUNESCO designation as a World Heritage site provides \"prima facie\" evidence that such culturally sensitive sites are legally protected pursuant to the Law of War, under the Geneva Convention, its articles, protocols and customs, together with other treaties including the Hague Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict and international law.\n\nThus, the Geneva Convention treaty promulgates:\n\n\"Article 53. PROTECTION OF CULTURAL OBJECTS AND OF PLACES OF WORSHIP. Without prejudice to the provisions of the Hague Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict of 14 May 1954,' and of other relevant international instruments, it is prohibited:\n\nA country may request to extend or reduce the boundaries, modify the official name, or change the selection criteria of one of its already listed sites. Any proposal for a significant boundary change or modify the site's selection criteria must be submitted as if it were a new nomination, including first placing it on the Tentative List and then onto the Nomination File.\n\nA request for a minor boundary change, one that does not have a significantly impact on the extent of the property or affect its \"outstanding universal value\", is also evaluated by the advisory bodies before being sent to the Committee. Such proposals can be rejected by either the advisory bodies or the Committee if they judge it to be a significant change instead of a minor one.\n\nProposals to change the site's official name is sent directly to the Committee.\n\nA site may be added to the List of World Heritage in Danger if there are conditions that threaten the characteristics for which the landmark or area was inscribed on the World Heritage List. Such problems may involve armed conflict and war, natural disasters, pollution, poaching, or uncontrolled urbanization or human development. This danger list is intended to increase international awareness of the threats and to encourage counteractive measures. Threats to a site can be either proven imminent threats or potential dangers that could have adverse effects on a site.\n\nThe state of conservation for each site on the danger list is reviewed on a yearly basis, after which the committee may request additional measures, delete the property from the list if the threats have ceased or consider deletion from both the List of World Heritage in Danger and the World Heritage List.\n\nOnly two sites have ever been delisted: the Arabian Oryx Sanctuary in Oman and the Dresden Elbe Valley in Germany. The Arabian Oryx Sanctuary was directly delisted in 2007, instead of first being put on the danger list, after the Omani government decided to reduce the protected area's size by 90 percent. The Dresden Elbe Valley was first placed on the danger list in 2006 when the World Heritage Committee decided that plans to construct the Waldschlösschen Bridge would significantly alter the valley's landscape. In response, the Dresden City Council attempted to stop the bridge's construction, but after several court decisions allowed the building of the bridge to proceed, the valley was removed from the World Heritage List in 2009.\n\nThe first global assessment to quantitatively measure threats to Natural World Heritage sites found that 63 percent of sites have been damaged by increasing human pressures including encroaching roads, agriculture infrastructure and settlements over the last two decades. These activities endanger Natural World Heritage sites and could compromise their unique values. Of the Natural World Heritage sites that contain forest, 91 percent of those experienced some loss since the year 2000. Many Natural World Heritage sites are more threatened than previously thought and require immediate conservation action.\n\nThere are 1092 World Heritage sites located in 167 states. Of these, 845 are cultural, 209 are natural and 38 are mixed properties. The World Heritage Committee has divided the world into five geographic zones which it calls regions: Africa, Arab states, Asia and the Pacific, Europe and North America, and Latin America and the Caribbean.\n\nRussia and the Caucasus states are classified as European, while Mexico and the Caribbean are classified as belonging to the Latin America & Caribbean zone, despite their location in North America. The UNESCO geographic zones also give greater emphasis on administrative, rather than geographic associations. Hence, Gough Island, located in the South Atlantic, is part of the Europe & North America region because the government of the United Kingdom nominated the site.\n\nThe table below includes a breakdown of the sites according to these zones and their classification:\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>The properties \"Uvs Nuur Basin\" and \"Landscapes of Dauria\" (Mongolia, Russian Federation) are trans-regional properties located in Europe and Asia and the Pacific region. They are counted here in the Asia and the Pacific region.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>The property \"The Architectural Work of Le Corbusier, an Outstanding Contribution to the Modern Movement\" (Argentina, Belgium, France, Germany, India, Japan, Switzerland) is a trans-regional property with component sites located in three regions - Europe and North America, Asia and the Pacific, and Latin America and the Caribbean. It is counted here in Europe and North America.\n\nCountries with fifteen or more World Heritage sites, as of July 2018.\nDespite the successes of World Heritage listing in promoting conservation, the UNESCO administered project has attracted criticism from some for perceived under-representation of heritage sites outside Europe, disputed decisions on site selection and adverse impact of mass tourism on sites unable to manage rapid growth in visitor numbers.\n\nA sizable lobbying industry has grown around the awards because World Heritage listing has the potential to significantly increase tourism revenue from sites selected. Site listing bids are often lengthy and costly, putting poorer countries at a disadvantage. Eritrea's efforts to promote Asmara are one example.\n\nIn 2016, the Australian government was reported to have successfully lobbied for Great Barrier Reef conservation efforts to be removed from a UNESCO report titled 'World Heritage and Tourism in a Changing Climate'. The Australian government's actions were in response to their concern about the negative impact that an 'at risk' label could have on tourism revenue at a previously designated UNESCO World Heritage site.\n\nA number of listed World Heritage locations such as George Town, Penang, and Casco Viejo, Panama, have struggled to strike the balance between the economic benefits of catering to greatly increased visitor numbers and preserving the original culture and local communities that drew the recognition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58916336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58916336", "title": "World Knowledge Forum", "text": "World Knowledge Forum\n\nThe World Knowledge Forum (WKF, 세계지식포럼) is a non-profit entity, which aims to promote balanced global growth and prosperity through knowledge-sharing. The World Knowledge Forum \"brings together global leaders to address the importance of knowledge in meeting the challenges and opportunities of a rapidly changing world\".\n\nThe World Knowledge Forum was conceived as part of the Vision Korea Project, a campaign launched by Maeil Business Newspaper in 1997, to \"propose new visions for development to Korea and to the global community\". The first World Knowledge Forum, entitled ‘Shaping the New Millennium with Knowledge,’ took place in 2000, shortly after the Asian financial crisis.\n\nPartnering with Nikkei and Bloomberg the Forum has now grown to encompass 1,053 sessions featuring over 4,028 speakers in total from all around the worlds.\n\nIn the 19th WKF, the speakers, Janet Yellen, Chair of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (2014-2018); Kersti Kaljulaid, President of Estonia; Arancha Gonzalez, Executive Director of International Trade Center (ITC); H. R. McMaster, The 26th White House National Security Council (NSC) Advisor of the Trump administration; Rajeev Suri, CEO of Nokia; Kenneth C. Frazier, CEO of Merck & Co., Inc.; John Kim, President of New York Life Insurance Company; Jane Jie Sun, CEO of Ctrip; Wang Zhenghua, President of Spring Airlines; and Eric Allison, Head of Uber Elevate were present to grace the occasion under the theme, \"Collective Intelligence: Overcoming Global Pandemonium\".\n\nThe World Knowledge Forum (WKF) was founded in October 2000 by Chang Dae-Whan, a Chairman of Maekyung Media Group. Immediately after the 1997 Asian Financial Crisis, the Vision Korea Project was launched to formulate ways to move Korea forward. Then in the following year, in 1998, the World Knowledge Forum Secretariat was established with Chairman Chang Dae-Whan presiding over the Forum’s Executive Committee. After two years of preparation, the first World Knowledge Forum was held with the ambition to transform Korea into a knowledge driven nation. Under the theme, “Shaping the New Millennium with Knowledge”, the first forum composed of 32 sessions led by over 90 speakers.\n\nIn the following year, in 2001, the WKF formed media partnerships with prominent media outlets such as Financial Times, Bloomberg, and CNBC that helped the WKF gain its reputation globally. In the same year, the World Knowledge Corps was created.\n\nSince 2010, top MBA courses were incorporated as sessions at WKF. New York University Stern School of Business first joined the WKF to hold an MBA session on finance. Then in 2013, HEC Paris and CEIBS newly joined to host their special MBA sessions. Currently, 6 world’s leading business schools are holding MBA sessions at the WKF. The schools include INSEAD, IE Business School, NYU Stern, HEC Paris, Tsinghua SEM, and Guanghua School of Management.\n\nEvery year, the World Knowledge Forum gathers more than 4,000 business and opinion leaders around the world ranging from environmental and international organizations to world's biggest corporations and institutions. These leaders discuss about the current issues and put forth their insights to find possible solutions for the future. The main aim is to highlight the importance of knowledge sharing towards a balanced prosperity of the global economy. With the new venue at the Seoul Shilla Hotel in 2014, the official season two of the Knowledge Forum began. Then in 2015, another venue, Jangchung Arena was newly added.\n\nForum themes have ranged from \"Shaping the New Millennium With Knowledge\" in 2000 to \"Knowledge in a World of Risk\" in 2002; from \"Creativity & Collaboration: Foundation of the New Era\" in 2005 to \"Collabonomics & Greater Asia\" in 2008. The 2010 WKF overall theme was \"One Asia Momentum: G20 Leadership And Creatinnovation\", and the WKF 2013 was \"One Asia Metamorphosis\".\n\nThe World Knowledge Forum is organized by Maekyung Media Group including Maeil Business Newspaper and Maeil Broadcasting Network (MBN).\n"}
