{"id": "52722667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52722667", "title": "1984 Prague Skate", "text": "1984 Prague Skate\n\nThe 1984 Prague Skate was held November 1984. It was the 20th edition. Medals were awarded in the disciplines of men's singles, ladies' singles, pair skating and ice dancing.\n"}
{"id": "52046838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52046838", "title": "2016 Indian Banks data breach", "text": "2016 Indian Banks data breach\n\n2016 Indian Banks data breach was reported in October 2016. It was estimated 3.2 million debit cards were compromised. Major Indian banks- SBI, HDFC Bank, ICICI, YES Bank and Axis Bank were among the worst hit. Many users reported unauthorised use of their cards in locations in China.\n\nThis resulted in one of the India's biggest card replacement drive in banking history. The biggest Indian bank State Bank of India announced the blocking and replacement of almost 600,000 debit cards.\n\nAn audit performed by SISA Information Security reports that the breach was due to malware injected into the payment gateway network of Hitachi Payment Systems.\n\n"}
{"id": "8854872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8854872", "title": "5 Minutes Alone", "text": "5 Minutes Alone\n\n\"5 Minutes Alone\" is a song by American Groove metal band Pantera from their 1994 album \"Far Beyond Driven\". The song also appears on the band's . The song was released as downloadable content for \"Rock Revolution\" and \"Rock Band 3\" and can be heard during a cut-scene in \"\".\n\nSpeaking about what the song is about, Pantera's drummer Vinnie Paul said:\n\nPantera's vocalist Phil Anselmo spoke about what the song is about saying:\n\nUpon release the song had an immediate impact on the band's fanbase, quickly becoming one of Pantera's most popular songs.\n\n\"5 Minutes Alone\" was covered by the bands Lamb of God, Ill Nino, DevilDriver, Soilwork, and Killswitch Engage in Dallas, Texas on December 8, 2007 on the 3rd anniversary of Dimebag Darrell's death. It featured 3 vocalists, 5 guitarists, and 3 drummers.\n\nThe song was covered by Nonpoint for the \"Metal Hammer\" tribute album \"Getcha Pull! A Tribute to Dimebag Darrell\"as a downloadable bonus track. Nonpoint then released the song on their 2010 studio album \"Miracle\".\n\nTexas deathcore band Upon a Burning Body recorded the song as well. It can be said as another bonus track for \"Getcha Pull! A Tribute to Dimebag Darrell\".\n\n"}
{"id": "8869321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8869321", "title": "Aerospace Journalist of the Year Awards", "text": "Aerospace Journalist of the Year Awards\n\nThis article is about the international Aerospace Journalist of the Year Awards (abbreviated \"AJOYA\"), issued from 1996 to 2009-2010 by the World Leadership Forum, Ltd, of London, England, U.K., in conjunction with the Farnborough Air Show (England) and the Paris Air Show (France).\n\nAJOYA should not be confused with the Australia's \"Aviation Journalist of the Year\" Awards, issued by that country's National Aviation Press Club (at least during 2010, in Sydney, Australia). Those awards were restricted to writers from Australia and New Zealand. For more on those awards in 2010, see: \"Australian Aviation’s McLaughlin ‘Aviation Journalist of the Year’\", on australianaviation.com.au December 6, 2010.\n\nThe international Aerospace Journalist of the Year Awards (abbreviated \"AJOYA\") were awards for writers and broadcasters working in the aerospace and aviation field, including specialists and those working for non-specialist titles. The awards dinner took place in mid-July (timed to coincide with the Farnborough Air Show and the Paris Air Show), and brought together aviation media and industry representatives.\n\nThe awards were organised between 1996 and 2010 by Malcolm Turner and his company (the \"World Leadership Forum, Ltd,\" of the UK) under the auspices of the Royal Aeronautical Society of the U.K. and the Aero Club of France (Aéro-Club de France).\n\nThe Awards, given annually, were typically organized in a hierarchy:\n...which judges narrowed down to...\n...from which, based on judges' scores, were selected...\n...from which were selected, based on judges' scores...\n...and an additional award...\n\nThe AJOYA awards were originally trophies in the form of a bronze eagle - leading the awards to become known colloquially as 'budgies', and for the competition to become known as the 'Budgie Awards'. The design of the Trophy changed several times, becoming a representation of the Aerospace Journalist of the Year logo, and then a simple engraved glass 'spike'.\n\nThe aerospace industry's writing awards, previously for many years (1960s to mid/late-1990s), had been awarded annually by the U.S.-based Aviation & Space Writers' Association, at a grand banquet gathering aviation industry leaders and luminaries. That organization and its awards program dissolved, leaving a vacuum in the aviation media world.\n\nStarting in the late 1990s, until 2009-2010, that void was filled by a British enterprise—the World Leadership Forum, Ltd. -- in collaboration with the world's two oldest aviation organizations: the Aero Club of France (Aéro-Club de France), and the Royal Aeronautical Society (of the United Kingdom).\n\nAwards were issued in several \"Category\" topic areas (see lists below).\n\nContest entries (copies of published articles or broadcasts) were received from publications and authors, then copied and redistributed to judges in each category, who then narrowed the submissions down to a few finalists (the prestigious \"Shortlist\") in each category, which was then published on the organization website during the months leading up to the Banquet.\n\nThe \"Shortlist\" candidates were invited to the Awards Banquet, where they would then discover who, among them, would be awarded the \"Aerospace Journalist of the Year Award\" in that respective category. Then from the category winners, a tally of judges' scores determined the one overall \"Aerospace Journalist of the Year,\" and one Honoree for a \"Decade of Excellence\" Award.\n\nThe awards were first presented in London in 1996, and throughout the years, the presentation ceremonies have alternated between Paris and London—roughly coinciding with the world's two main airshows: the Paris Air Show and Farnborough Air Show (England), held on alternate years.\n\nIn London, the AJOYA ceremonies have taken place at the Ballroom of the Park Lane Hotel, Piccadilly, and at the Royal Courts of Justice and they directly preceded the biennial Farnborough Airshow.\n\nThe organization depended upon aerospace industry companies to sponsor the awards, and reciprocated their generosity by offering them seating with the AJOYA finalists at the awards banquet—a public-relations opportunity for aerospace industry leaders and P.R. execs to charm their industry's leading writers and opinion-shapers.\n\nHowever, remotely located from most of the world's aviation media (in London or Paris, far removed from the Americas, Africa and Asia), many aerospace writers who made the awards-finalist \"Shortlists\" (and were thus invited to the banquet), were unable to attend—undermining the value of the banquet, and sponsorships, to AJOYA's commercial sponsors.\n\nThe awards then began to be limited to only those writers who would make the trip to the banquet, sharply reducing eligibility for the awards.\n\nInitially, relatively few of the world's aerospace journalists competed, and the awards were almost exclusively from the U.S. and Britain, with a few contestants from Western Europe and British Commonwealth nations.\n\nBut as the years went by, many more entered the contests, and additional categories of judging were added, and non-English entries were admitted (and translated into English for the judges), drawing contest entries from throughout the world—Russia and Eastern Europe, China and East Asia, South Asia, Latin America and Africa.\n\nThe volume of entries began to overwhelm the limited number of AJOYA judges, creating difficuties.\n\nThe global economic \"Great Recession\" that started in 2007 soon collapsed the aerospace industry, and forced drastic budget-tightening on nearly all aerospace companies. \"Extras\"—such as support of aviation organizations and programs—were cut out of many companies' budgets.\n\nThe awards ended amid rumours that they folded due to a lack of sponsorship.\n\nThe World Leadership Forum, Ltd. organization dissolved in 2009, according to the business-info website Duedil.com.\n\nThe AJOYA.com website is now off-line and the domain name is for sale.\n\nThere were no awards in 2011, and in 2012 a different organiser held a new Aerospace Media Awards dinner at the Royal Aeronautical Society in London.\n\nJudges were chiefly leading aerospace industry editors & writers, and business/technical leaders & experts—largely chosen from the ranks of former AJOYA Winners or \"Shortlist\" finalists—from around the world.\n\nThe judges came from aerospace industry publications such as:\n\nTo ensure fair judging, judges were recused from voting on their own submissions, and from voting on any other submissions from any publication for whom they wrote, or any \"sister\" publication (owned by the same, or a related, company).\n\nThe final list of AJOYA judges (see below) finished with the note:\n\"The judges have not marked any entry from their own publication/company, or any sister publication/company\"\n\nThis is the last list of Judges, which remained on the AJOYA.COM website until 2010:\n\n2009 Judges:\n\nThe categories for the awards include:\n\nWinners are grouped below into:\n\nTHE DECADE OF EXCELLENCE Award\n\nTHE AEROSPACE JOURNALIST OF THE YEAR:\n\nThe CATEGORY WINNERS in each category,\nfor each year were:\n\nBEST AIR SHOW SUBMISSION\nBEST AIR SHOW DAILY\nBEST AIR TRANSPORT SUBMISSION\nBEST AVIONICS SUBMISSION\nBEST BREAKING NEWS SUBMISSION\nBEST BUSINESS AIRCRAFT SUBMISSION\nBEST BUSINESS OR FINANCIAL SUBMISSION\nBEST DEFENCE SUBMISSION\nBEST ENVIRONMENT SUBMISSION\nBEST GENERAL AVIATION SUBMISSION\nBEST MAINTENANCE SUBMISSION\nBEST PROPULSION SUBMISSION\nBEST REGIONAL AIRCRAFT SUBMISSION\nBEST SAFETY SUBMISSION\nBEST SPACE SUBMISSION\nBEST SYSTEMS OR TECHNOLOGY SUBMISSION\n\n"}
{"id": "41181272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41181272", "title": "Anthem for a Lost Cause", "text": "Anthem for a Lost Cause\n\n\"Anthem for a Lost Cause\" is a song by Welsh alternative rock band Manic Street Preachers. It is the second single released from the band's eleventh studio album, \"Rewind the Film\".\n\nBoth song and lyrics were written by singer James Dean Bradfield, in an interview he stated that the song was about the question of if lyrics today are as important as they were before. The song has one of the longest, if not the longest chorus of any song on the album.\nThe music video features Tori Lyons, who previously starred in the video for \"Show Me the Wonder\", reprising her role as a miner's wife in the 1984 miners' strike. The band stated that Kieran Evans was important for this video, because not only did she appear in the band's last video, but because they wanted to capture the feeling of the 80´s and how women dealt with the big miners' strike. in the video we see a woman that is trying to survive without her husband that has left her because of the conditions that they were living in.\nThe video shows many realities of the consequences of that 80's strike.\n\nThe song was made available by digital download on 25 November 2013, backed up by two songs \"Death of a Digital Ghost\" and \"See It Like Sutherland\". A live version of She Is Suffering at the O Arena in 2011 was also in the single digital download. It peaked on number 200 in the UK Singles Chart.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48896469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48896469", "title": "Bedara Vesha", "text": "Bedara Vesha\n\nBedara Vesha is a folk dance performed days before Holi night in Sirsi town of Karnataka. It is also known as ‘Hunter Dance’. People of Sirsi celebrate Holi with this unique folk dance every alternate year. It attracts a large crowd from different parts of the state on all the five days of Holi.\n\n‘Bedara Vesha’ is a unique folk dance with a legend of 300 years. According to the legend, after the reign of ‘Vijayanagar Kings’, Sirsi (then Kalyanapattana) and other southern India regions were taken over and ruled by Sonda dynasty.\n\nIn Sonda region, there was always a fear of Muslims invaders attacking. In order to protect them, the rulers appointed ‘Malleshi’, a young boy from Beda community and a warrior in the Vijaynagar Empire.\n\nInitially, Malleshi performed his duties well, but later, he became a troublemaker and a womanizer. He wanted to marry Rudrambika, who was the daughter of local leader Dasappa Shetty. She was bold and fearless; for the interest of society, she married Malleshi.\n\nOne Holi night, while Malleshi was dancing, Rudrambika threw acid in his eyes which made him blind. He then tried chasing Rudraambika to kill her but was caught by 12 villagers and burnt alive. Back then, villagers practiced ‘Sati’ (a ritual where wife sets herself on fire on her husband’s funeral pyre)\n\nIn appreciation of rudrambika’s sacrifice, ‘Bedara Vesha’ was started and is performed even today.\n\nThe Hunter Dance is practiced for months before the actual performance. The artists are donned with peacock feathers, mustache, cotton and red cloth, fruits, shield and sword.\n\n‘Bedara Vesha’ is performed in the Sirsi town of Karnataka. Another folk dance called ‘Dollu Kunitha’ is also performed during Bedara Vesha.\n\nNearly 50 solo artists’ perform the hunter dance with whistle blowers and a troupe of drum beaters.\n"}
{"id": "304588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304588", "title": "Brain damage", "text": "Brain damage\n\nBrain damage or brain injury (BI) is the destruction or degeneration of brain cells. Brain injuries occur due to a wide range of internal and external factors. In general, brain damage refers to significant, undiscriminating trauma-induced damage, while neurotoxicity typically refers to selective, chemically induced neuron damage.\n\nA common category with the greatest number of injuries is traumatic brain injury (TBI) following physical trauma or head injury from an outside source, and the term acquired brain injury (ABI) is used in appropriate circles to differentiate brain injuries occurring after birth from injury, from a genetic disorder, or from a congenital disorder. Primary and secondary brain injuries identify the processes involved, while focal and diffuse brain injury describe the severity and localization.\n\nDue to more recent Medical, Rehabilitation and ongoing results 'neuroplasticity' within the mechanics of our brains lead to re-arrangement of the brain's workings. These often result in the 'synapses' arranging alternate routes, to achieve previous habits. Neuroplasticity is the brain's ability to reorganise itself by forming new neural connections throughout life. Neuroplasticity allows the neurons (nerve cells) in the brain to compensate for injury and disease and to adjust their activities in response to new situations or to changes in their environment.\n\nSymptoms of brain injuries vary based on the severity of the injury or how much of the brain is affected. The three categories used for classifying the severity of brain injuries are mild, moderate or severe.\n\nSymptoms of a mild brain injury include headaches, confusions, ringing ears, fatigue, changes in sleep patterns, mood or behavior. Other symptoms include trouble with memory, concentration, attention or thinking. Mental fatigue is a common debilitating experience and may not be linked by the patient to the original (minor) incident. Narcolepsy and sleep disorders are common misdiagnoses.\n\nCognitive symptoms include confusion, aggressive, abnormal behavior, slurred speech, and coma or other disorders of consciousness. Physical symptoms include headaches that do not go away or worsen, vomiting or nausea, convulsions, abnormal dilation of the eyes, inability to awaken from sleep, weakness in extremities and loss of coordination.\n\nSymptoms observed in children include changes in eating habits, persistent irritability or sadness, changes in attention, disrupted sleeping habits, or loss of interest in toys.\n\nSymptoms of brain injuries can also be influenced by the location of the injury and as a result impairments are specific to the part of the brain affected. Lesion size is correlated with severity, recovery, and comprehension. Brain injuries often create impairment or disability that can vary greatly in severity.\n\nIn cases of severe brain injuries, the likelihood of areas with permanent disability is great, including neurocognitive deficits, delusions (often, to be specific, monothematic delusions), speech or movement problems, and intellectual disability. There may also be personality changes. The most severe cases result in coma or even persistent vegetative state. Even a mild incident can have long-term effects or cause symptoms to appear years later.\n\nStudies show there is a correlation between brain lesion and language, speech, and category-specific disorders. Wernicke's aphasia is associated with anomia, unknowingly making up words (neologisms), and problems with comprehension. The symptoms of Wernicke’s aphasia are caused by damage to the posterior section of the superior temporal gyrus.\n\nDamage to the Broca’s area typically produces symptoms like omitting functional words (agrammatism), sound production changes, dyslexia, dysgraphia, and problems with comprehension and production. Broca’s aphasia is indicative of damage to the posterior inferior frontal gyrus of the brain.\n\nAn impairment following damage to a region of the brain does not necessarily imply that the damaged area is wholly responsible for the cognitive process which is impaired, however. For example, in pure alexia, the ability to read is destroyed by a lesion damaging both the left visual field and the connection between the right visual field and the language areas (Broca's area and Wernicke's area). However, this does not mean one suffering from pure alexia is incapable of comprehending speech—merely that there is no connection between their working visual cortex and language areas—as is demonstrated by the fact that pure alexics can still write, speak, and even transcribe letters without understanding their meaning.\n\nLesions to the fusiform gyrus often result in prosopagnosia, the inability to distinguish faces and other complex objects from each other. Lesions in the amygdala would eliminate the enhanced activation seen in occipital and fusiform visual areas in response to fear with the area intact. Amygdala lesions change the functional pattern of activation to emotional stimuli in regions that are distant from the amygdala.\n\nOther lesions to the visual cortex have different effects depending on the location of the damage. Lesions to V1, for example, can cause blindsight in different areas of the brain depending on the size of the lesion and location relative to the calcarine fissure. Lesions to V4 can cause color-blindness, and bilateral lesions to MT/V5 can cause the loss of the ability to perceive motion. Lesions to the parietal lobes may result in agnosia, an inability to recognize complex objects, smells, or shapes, or amorphosynthesis, a loss of perception on the opposite side of the body.\n\nBrain injuries have far-reaching and varied consequences due to the nature of the brain as the main source of bodily control. Brain-injured people commonly experience issues with memory. This can be issues with either long or short term memories depending on the location and severity of the injury. Sometimes memory can be improved through rehabilitation, although it can be permanent. Behavioral and personality changes are also commonly observed due to changes of the brain structure in areas controlling hormones or major emotions. Headaches and pain can also occur as a result of a brain injury either directly from the damage or due to neurological conditions stemming from the injury. Due to the changes in the brain as well as the issues associated with the change in physical and mental capacity, depression and low self-esteem are common side effects that can be treated with psychological help. Antidepressants must be used with caution in brain injury people due to the potential for undesired effects because of the already altered brain chemistry.\n\nThere are multiple responses of the body to brain injury, occurring at different times after the initial occurrence of damage, as the functions of the neurons, nerve tracts, or sections of the brain can be affected by damage. The immediate response can take many forms. Initially, there may symptoms such as swelling, pain, bruising, or loss of consciousness. Post-traumatic amnesia is also common with brain damage, as is temporary aphasia, or impairment of language.\n\nAs time progresses, and the severity of injury becomes clear, there are further responses that may become apparent. Due to loss of blood flow or damaged tissue, sustained during the injury, amnesia and aphasia may become permanent, and apraxia has been documented in patients. Amnesia is a condition in which a person is unable to remember things. Aphasia is the loss or impairment of word comprehension or use. Apraxia is a motor disorder caused by damage to the brain, and may be more common in those who have been left brain damaged, with loss of mechanical knowledge critical. Headaches, occasional dizziness, or fatigue, all temporary symptoms of brain trauma, may become permanent, or may not disappear for a long time.\n\nThere are documented cases of lasting psychological effects as well, such as emotional swings often caused by damage to the various parts of the brain that control human emotions and behavior. Some who have experience emotional changes related to brain damage may have emotions that come very quickly and are very intense, but have very little lasting effect. Emotional changes may not be triggered by a specific event, and can be a cause of stress to the injured party and their family or friends. Often, counseling is suggested for those who experience this effect after their injury, and may be available as an individual or group session. It may also be covered by insurance, or offered at a discounted price, or for free. See local resource centers near you for more information.\n\nIt is important to note that the long term psychological and physiological effects will vary by person and injury. For example, perinatal brain damage has been implicated in cases of neurodevelopmental impairments and psychiatric illnesses. If any concerning symptoms, signs, or changes to behaviors are occurring, a healthcare provider should be consulted. Different types and degrees of trauma will cause different effects, and if any concerning symptoms, signs, or changes to behaviors are occurring, a healthcare provider should be consulted.\n\nUnlike some of the more obvious responses to brain damage, the body also has invisible physical responses which can be difficult to notice. These will generally be identified by a healthcare provider, especially as they are normal physical responses to brain damage. Cytokines are known to be induced in response to brain injury. These have diverse actions that can cause, exacerbate, mediate and/or inhibit cellular injury and repair. TGFβ seems to exert primarily neuroprotective actions, whereas TNFα might contribute to neuronal injury and exert protective effects. IL-1 mediates ischaemic, excitotoxic, and traumatic brain injury, probably through multiple actions on glia, neurons, and the vasculature. Cytokines may be useful in order to discover novel therapeutic strategies. At the current time, they are already in clinical trials.\n\nBrain injuries can result from a number of conditions including:\n\nChemotherapy can cause brain damage to the neural stem cells and oligodendrocyte cells that produce myelin. Radiation and chemotherapy can lead to brain tissue damage by disrupting or stopping blood flow to the affected areas of the brain. This damage can cause long term effects such as but not limited to; memory loss, confusion, and loss of cognitive function. The brain damage caused by radiation depends on where the brain tumor is located, the amount of radiation used, and the duration of the treatment. Radiosurgery can also lead to tissue damage that results in about 1 in 20 patients requiring a second operation to remove the damaged tissue.\n\nWernicke-Korsakoff Syndrome can cause brain damage and results from a Vitamin B deficiency. This syndrome presents with two conditions, Wernicke’s encephalopathy and Korsakoff psychosis. Typically Wernicke’s encephalopathy precedes symptoms of Korsakoff psychosis. Wernicke’s encephalopathy causes bleeding in the thalamus or hypothalamus, which controls the nervous and endocrine system. Due to the bleeding, brain damage occurs causing problems with vision, coordination and balance. Korsakoff psychosis typically follow after the symptoms of Wernicke’s decrease and result from chronic brain damage. Korsakoff psychosis affect memory. Wernicke-Korsakoff Syndrome is typically caused by chronic alcohol abuse or by conditions that affect nutritional absorption, including colon cancer, eating disorders and gastric bypass.\n\nBrain lesions are sometimes intentionally inflicted during neurosurgery, such as the carefully placed brain lesion used to treat epilepsy and other brain disorders. These lesions are induced by excision or by electric shocks (electrolytic lesions) to the exposed brain or commonly by infusion of excitotoxins to specific areas.\n\nDiffuse axonal injury is caused by shearing forces on the brain leading to lesions in the white matter tracts of the brain. These shearing forces are seen in cases where the brain had a sharp rotational acceleration, and is caused by the difference in density between white matter and grey matter.\n\nGlasgow Coma Scale (GCS) is the most widely used scoring system used to assess the level of severity of a brain injury. This method is based on the objective observations of specific traits to determine the severity of a brain injury. It is based on three traits eye opening, verbal response, and motor response, gauged as described below. Based on the Glasgow Coma Scale severity is classified as follows, severe brain injuries score 3-8, moderate brain injuries score 9-12 and mild score 13-15.\n\nThere are several imaging techniques that can aid in diagnosing and assessing the extent of brain damage, such as computed tomography (CT) scan, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) and magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS), positron emission tomography (PET), single-photon emission tomography (SPECT). CT scans and MRI are the two techniques widely used and are most effective. CT scans can show brain bleeds, fractures of the skull, fluid build up in the brain that will lead to increased cranial pressure. MRI is able to better to detect smaller injuries, detect damage within the brain, diffuse axonal injury, injuries to the brainstem, posterior fossa, and subtemporal and subfrontal regions. However patients with pacemakers, metallic implants, or other metal within their bodies are unable to have an MRI done. Typically the other imaging techniques are not used in a clinical setting because of the cost, lack of availability.\n\nThe treatment for emergency traumatic brain injuries focuses on assuring the person has enough oxygen from the brain blood supply, and on maintaining normal blood pressure to avoid further injuries of the head or neck. The person may need surgery to remove clotted blood or repair skull fractures, for which cutting a hole in the skull may be necessary. Medicines used for traumatic injuries are diuretics, anti-seizure or coma-inducing drugs. Diuretics reduce the fluid in tissues lowering the pressure on the brain. In the first week after a traumatic brain injury, a person may have a risk of seizures, which anti-seizure drugs help prevent. Coma-inducing drugs may be used during surgery to reduce impairments and restore blood flow.\n\nIn the case of brain damage from traumatic brain injury, dexamethasone and/or Mannitol may be used.\nVarious professions may be involved in the medical care and rehabilitation of someone suffering impairment after a brain injury. Neurologists, neurosurgeons, and physiatrists are physicians specialising in treating brain injury. Neuropsychologists (especially clinical neuropsychologists) are psychologists specialising in understanding the effects of brain injury and may be involved in assessing the severity or creating rehabilitation strategies. Occupational therapists may be involved in running rehabilitation programs to help restore lost function or help re-learn essential skills. Registered nurses, such as those working in hospital intensive care units, are able to maintain the health of the severely brain-injured with constant administration of medication and neurological monitoring, including the use of the Glasgow Coma Scale used by other health professionals to quantify extent of orientation.\n\nPhysiotherapists also play a significant role in rehabilitation after a brain injury. In the case of a traumatic brain injury (TBIs), physiotherapy treatment during the post-acute phase may include: sensory stimulation, serial casting and splinting, fitness and aerobic training, and functional training. Sensory stimulation refers to regaining sensory perception through the use of modalities. There is no evidence to support the efficacy of this intervention. Serial casting and splinting are often used to reduce soft tissue contractures and muscle tone. Evidence based research reveals that serial casting can be used to increase passive range of motion (PROM) and decrease spasticity. Studies also report that fitness and aerobic training will increase cardiovascular fitness; however the benefits will not be transferred to the functional level. Functional training may also be used to treat patients with TBIs. To date, no studies supports the efficacy of sit to stand training, arm ability training and body weight support systems (BWS). Overall, studies suggest that patients with TBIs who participate in more intense rehabilitation programs will see greater benefits in functional skills. More research is required to better understand the efficacy of the treatments mentioned above.\n\nOther treatments for brain injury include medication, psychotherapy, neuropsychological rehabilitation, snoezelen, surgery, or physical implants such as deep brain stimulation.\n\nPrognosis, or the likely progress of a disorder, depends on the nature, location, and cause of the brain damage (see Traumatic brain injury, Focal and diffuse brain injury, Primary and secondary brain injury).\n\nIn general, neuroregeneration can occur in the peripheral nervous system but is much rarer and more difficult to assist in the central nervous system (brain or spinal cord). However, in neural development in humans, areas of the brain can learn to compensate for other damaged areas, and may increase in size and complexity and even change function, just as someone who loses a sense may gain increased acuity in another sense - a process termed neuroplasticity.\n\nThere are many misconceptions that revolve around brain injuries and brain damage. One misconception is that if someone has brain damage then they cannot fully recover. Recovery depends a variety of factors; such as severity and location. Testing is done to note severity and location. Not everyone fully heals from brain damage, but it is possible to have a full recovery. Brain injuries are very hard to predict in outcome. Many tests and specialists are needed to determine the likelihood of the prognosis. People with minor brain damage can have debilitating side effects; not just severe brain damage has debilitating effects. The side- effects of a brain injury depend on location and the body’s response to injury. Even a mild concussion can have long term effects that may not resolve. Another misconception is that children heal better from brain damage. Children are at greater risk for injury due to lack of maturity. It makes future development hard to predict. This is because different cortical areas mature at different stages, with some major cell populations and their corresponding cognitive faculties remaining unrefined until early adulthood. In the case of a child with frontal brain injury, for example, the impact of the damage may be undetectable until that child fails to develop normal executive functions in his or her late teens and early twenties.\n\nThe foundation for understanding human behavior and brain injury can be attributed to the case of Phineas Gage and the famous case studies by Paul Broca. The first case study on Phineas Gage’s head injury is one of the most astonishing brain injuries in history. In 1848, Phineas Gage was paving way for a new railroad line when he encountered an accidental explosion of a tamping iron straight through his frontal lobe. Gage observed to be intellectually unaffected but exemplified post injury behavioral deficits. These deficits include: becoming sporadic, disrespectful, extremely profane, and gave no regard for other workers. Gage started having seizures in February, dying only four months later on May 21, 1860.\n\nTen years later, Paul Broca examined two patients exhibiting impaired speech due to frontal lobe injuries. Broca’s first patient lacked productive speech. He saw this as an opportunity to address language localization. It wasn’t until Leborgne, formally known as \"tan\", died when Broca confirmed the frontal lobe lesion from an autopsy. The second patient had similar speech impairments, supporting his findings on language localization. The results of both cases became a vital verification of the relationship between speech and the left cerebral hemisphere. The affected areas are known today as Broca’s area and Broca’s Aphasia.\n\nA few years later, a German neuroscientist, Carl Wernicke, consulted on a stroke patient. The patient experienced neither speech nor hearing impairments, but suffered from a few brain deficits. These deficits included: lacking the ability to comprehend what was spoken to him and the words written down. After his death, Wernicke examined his autopsy that found a lesion located in the left temporal region. This area became known as Wernicke's area. Wernicke later hypothesized the relationship between Wernicke's area and Broca's area, which was proven fact.\n\n"}
{"id": "44408169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44408169", "title": "Business Times (Tanzania)", "text": "Business Times (Tanzania)\n\nTanzania Business Times is a weekly Tanzanian newspaper published in Dar es Salaam, the business capital and largest city in the second-largest economy in the East African Community. It is the only exclusively business weekly published in the country.\n\nThe newspaper covers investment and business news in Tanzania. It is published in English only. It has a print version, but is also available on the Internet.\n\nThe paper is published by Business Times Limited, a company founded in 1988, which publishes three other papers: (a) Majira, a daily news publication in Kiswahili (b) Dar Leo, another news daily, also in Kiswahili and (c) Spoti Starehe, a weekly sports newspaper in Kiswahili.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8015268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8015268", "title": "Chaos cloud", "text": "Chaos cloud\n\nThe chaos cloud is a hoax that originated in a \"Weekly World News\" article in September 2005. It was published online at Yahoo! Entertainment News. According to the article, the chaos cloud is a massive object in outer space that \"dissolves everything in its path, including comets, asteroids, planets and entire stars\", and is due to reach Earth in 2014.\n\nThe hoax article generated a large amount of discussion online, as people attempted to discern whether or not it was genuine. Articles on the subject appeared at a diverse range of sites, such as Bad Astronomy, Whirlpool, Free Republic and Overclockers Australia. It has been debunked on Snopes and other urban legends sites. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "44950011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44950011", "title": "Combat operations in 2012 during the Battle of Aleppo", "text": "Combat operations in 2012 during the Battle of Aleppo\n\nGunfire between rebels and security forces broke out on the night of 19 July 2012 in and around Salaheddine, a district in the city's southwest portion. It is unclear whether the district had a strong rebel presence before the battle began, or was captured by opposition fighters coming from the outskirts. Meanwhile, thousands of rebel soldiers from Aleppo's northern and eastern countryside began to move towards the city.\n\nFighting in Salaheddine continued into the next day, as the Syrian Army began shelling rebel-controlled districts with artillery and attack helicopters. By the early afternoon of 21 July, rebel forces had penetrated Aleppo's northeastern neighborhoods of Haydariya and Sakhour, where they clashed with the Syrian Army. The fighting drove many residents to safer areas.\n\nOn 22 July, fighting had spread from Salaheddine and neighboring Saif al-Dawla to al-Jameeliya and its surrounding neighborhoods near the city center, leading to a battle for the city's main intelligence headquarters. By the next day, rebels on the eastern front captured Helweniyeh, and according to a rebel commander, Hanano and the industrial area of Sheikh Najjar as well. Meanwhile, continuing clashes near the city center included a rebel attack on the state TV station and the central prison, where a massacre conducted by security forces had taken place, according to activists. Throughout the day, power was out in much of the city.\n\nOn 24 July 2012, according to Al Jazeera, the FSA launched an offensive to take the city center, leading to heavy fighting near the gates of the Old City, a United Nations World heritage site. Rebel forces on the eastern front continued to push westwards. The FSA set up checkpoints in the eastern al-Sahkour district. Later that day, the Syrian Army employed fighter jets for the first time to bomb rebel-held districts.\n\nDuring the next two days, the government sent thousands of reinforcements to Aleppo. The troops were sent mostly via the M5 highway connecting Damascus and Aleppo from the city's south, and the main Aleppo-Latakia road from the city's west. Rebels conducted deadly attacks on arriving troops. Among the reinforcements that massed on the outskirts of Aleppo were special forces units. By day's end 10,000 soldiers had massed around Aleppo and its countryside. By comparison, 1,500 to 2,000 rebel fighters from around northern Syria arrived to assist the 2,000 already fighting. Fighting raged in the Old City and in the central districts of Jamaliya, Kalasseh, and Bustan al-Qasr.\n\nOn 27 July, skirmishes occurred on the outskirts as reinforcements continued to arrive. Rebel forces advanced to the central district of Fardous, despite continued bombardment. Kurdish fighters, who had gained control over most of the northern districts of Sheikh Maqsud and Al-Ashrafiya, clashed with Syrian troops a day after they attacked a Kurdish convoy on the airport road.\n\nOn the morning of 28 July 2012, the Syrian Army started an attack against Salaheddine district, which held the largest concentration of rebels. The assault commenced with an eight-hour artillery bombardment, which started at four in the morning, after which tanks and ground troops moved in. During the clashes, rebels, providing unverified video footage, claimed to have shot down a government helicopter gunship, a rare feat. Rebels also claimed that 8–10 tanks and armored vehicles were destroyed. Rebel forces attacked a strategic police station in the city center for the third day, in an attempt to link up with opposition forces in the northeastern Sakhour district on the eastern front. By the end of the day, the rebels had repelled the assault, but the bombardment continued. Among the FSA fighters killed was a battalion commander. On the next day, fighting continued in Salaheddine. Syrian Army soldiers were reportedly defecting, bringing their tanks. In the evening, state media reported that Salaheddine had been recaptured by the Army. The opposition contrarily claimed to control 35 to 40 percent of the city.\n\nIn late July and early August 2012, the FSA continued its offensive in Aleppo, with both sides suffering high casualties. Rebel commanders said their main aim was to capture the city center. Rebels seized a strategic checkpoint in the town of Anadan north of Aleppo, gaining a direct route between the city and the Turkish border, an important rebel supply base. They also captured Al-Bab, northeast of the city with an army base. Later, rebels attacked the Minakh air base, 30 km northwest of Aleppo, with arms and tanks captured at the Anadan checkpoint. Opposition forces continued to make territorial gains in the city, controlling most of eastern and southwestern Aleppo, including Salaheddine and parts of Hamdaniyeh. They continued to target security centers and police stations, as clashes erupted near the Air Force intelligence headquarters in Aleppo's northwestern Zahraa district. Rebels overran several police stations and posts in the central and southern districts of Bab al-Nerab, Al-Miersa, and Salhain, seizing significant amounts of arms and ammunition.\n\nThe Syrian military continued its attempt to capture Salaheddine, while bombing rebel-held territories throughout the city. Ambushes and executions were common. The Army appeared to have made little effort in sending ground forces to recapture the central and southern districts. The loyalist al-Barre militia began to clash with rebel forces in southern Aleppo and near the city's southeastern international airport. Clashes between the tribesmen and the rebels escalated after Zino Berri's execution.\n\nFrom 3 to 5 August 2012, the rebel offensive began to stall. The Syrian Army finished deploying 20,000 reinforcements. Rebels retreated after failed attempts to capture Minagh airbase and the state TV station in Izaa district, a few blocks northeast of Salahaddine.\n\nOn 6 August, a rebel commander was killed in Salahaddine. The media center of the Taweed brigade, located in Sakhour district, was destroyed by an airstrike. Rebels attacked a checkpoint near Aleppo University. Fighting erupted near the presidential palace and government forces shelled rebel positions at the Palace of Justice and in Marjeh and Sha'ar (Terbet Lala) districts.\n\nOn 7 August, the ancient citadel in the city center was under siege by rebels who controlled the ground on at least two sides.\nThe FSA had reportedly advanced to the Bab Jnēn and Sabaa Bahrat districts amidst fierce clashes. In the north, rebels attempted to advance into a Kurdish district, clashing with Kurdish fighters. Jets bombed the area, forcing rebel forces to retreat. Opposition activists confirmed that Aleppo was completely surrounded by government troops.\n\nArmored units inched forward on Salahaddine from the south and west. Military snipers deployed on rooftops and tanks were stationed in the streets. Snipers were also positioned in the local roundabout where they prevented rebel reinforcements and supplies from entering the district.\n\nOn the morning of 8 August 2012, the Syrian military launched an offensive to retake Salaheddine, a rebel stronghold that an important southern supply route. The military hoped to link up with troops at the Aleppo Citadel. Rebel fighters were reportedly low on ammunition and exhausted. After intense fighting and shelling in the district throughout the day, half a dozen Army tanks breached the center. In the early morning of the next day, artillery shelling intensified as more tanks moved in. FSA units began to depart. By mid-morning, hundreds of rebel fighters were pulling out of the district, with some leaving the city. Fearing a continued Army advance, some rebel units in nearby Saif al-Dawla and Bustan al-Qasar, districts east of Salaheddine, also began to evacuate. The withdrawal occurred while the city remained relatively quiet, as government forces made little attempt to advance. During the evening of 9 August, troops and armored vehicles, accompanied by the Mukhabarat and the Shabiha, moved into the neighborhood, searching house to house for remaining rebels, as snipers began setting up positions.\n\nFighting continued in the central district of Bab al-Hadid and the southeast district of Bab al-Nairab. Rebel fighters made attempts to recapture Salaheddine, but were held back by snipers and mortar fire.\n\nOn 12 August 2012, tanks advanced to the roundabout in Salaheddine which was defended by 150 rebels. During the day, rebels attacked a petrol station in Salaheddine, which was being used as a military base, and killed the base's commander and captured badly needed ammunition and weapons.\n\nOn 13 August, the Army advanced into the western portion of the Saif al-Dawla district.<ref name=\"BBC 8/13\"></ref> Security sources in Damascus also stated that the Army was advancing on the rebel-held district of Sukari. The Observatory said opposition fighters attacked a key air force intelligence branch in the western Zahraa district. Rebels again attacked the radio and television station in Aleppo.\n\nVideo footage showed rebels shooting down a MiG-23BN fighter and executions of prisoners in and around Aleppo by rebel forces. Opposition activists claimed that rebels had nothing to do with the killings.\n\nOn 15 August, rebels reported that they captured Bab al-Nasr and the surrounding area, forcing soldiers to retreat to the city centre.\nOn 17 August, heavy fighting was reported at Aleppo International Airport, a strategic gateway to the city. According to SANA, rebels were \"pushed out from areas on both sides of the airport\".\n\nOn 18 August, Army clearing operations were reported in the areas of al-Andalus school, al-Hayat Hospital, Rahmo Khatab school, al-Hamiyat Hospital and Ahmad Saeed school. The army claimed to have taken the area of Maysaloun Hospital. On 20 August, the Japanese TV reporter Mika Yamamoto was killed, the first in Aleppo. On 21 August, both sides claimed advances, although neither could be independently verified.\n\nOn 22 August, rebels tried to make an advance in Saif al-Dawla, but their attack was repelled by heavy mortar and RPG fire. Government forces shelled Aleppo and two neighbouring towns. The army bombarded rebel weapon stocks to keep them out of the city, according to a security official. He also said reinforcements for both sides were heading to Aleppo.\n\nOn 23 August 2012, the military reportedly captured three Christian neighborhoods in the Old City, according to residents contacted by AFP. The districts of Jdeydeh, Tela and Sulaimaniyeh had been captured by opposition forces five days before. One resident claimed the Army was celebrated by hundreds of residents, who set up committees to avoid a potential return of the rebels. The main rebel commander had, earlier in the day, claimed that rebel fighters were near the districts. The military capture was later confirmed by AFP. The capture of the Jdeydeh quarter was initiated by the residents, who took up arms after the rebels set up checkpoints and fired on residents and churches (around Farhat Square). They stormed Al-Hatab Square where most rebels were positioned and took control of it. The Army later joined the Christian militia to expel the rebels from the quarter.\n\nCBS News learned that at least 48 of Aleppo's elite businessmen, calling themselves the \"Front of Aleppo Islamic Scholars\" (FAIS), hand-picked a provisional city council to take over as Aleppo's new local government. The 48 businessmen were financiers for the Syrian government, who thereby switched sides to the rebels.\n\nRebels tried to stop government tanks that were advancing from Saif al-Dawla. The Army was also moving in the Sukari district and rebel fighters complained of RPG shortages.\n\nThe opposition activist group SOHR reported that the Army was trying to take control of Isaa district while state TV claimed the district had been captured from rebels.\n\nOn 28 August 2012, SANA claimed the Children's Hospital was cleared by the Army.\n\nReports indicated that the Syrian government was indiscriminately attacking civilians at bakeries with artillery rounds and rockets in opposition-controlled areas. Human Rights Watch labeled these as war crimes, as the only military targets were rebels manning the bakeries and that dozens of civilians were killed.\n\nOn 31 August, rebel fighters announced a major offensive, attacking security compounds and bases. Activists claimed that three warplanes were destroyed when rebels attacked Kwers military airport. The warplanes and artillery continued to fire on rebel positions. SOHR reported that the fighting happened in Sukari, Hanano and Bustan Al Qasr.\n\nOn 3 September, a Syrian general said that the Army controlled the upper area of Saif al-Dawla and that they were trying to take the whole district. AFP reporters visited Salaheddine and confirmed that it was under Army control. AFP reported that the Army had captured, two days before, two 10-story malls on either side of the main street in Saif al-Dawla, which had been used by rebel snipers.\n\nOn 6 September, Kurdish activists reported that 21 civilians were killed in the Kurdish neighborhood of Sheikh Maksud when the Army shelled the local mosque and nearby areas. Despite not directly witnessing clashes, residents believed that the attack was in retaliation for locals sheltering anti-government civilians from other districts. The Kurdish Supreme Committee and Popular Protection Units vowed retaliation.\n\nOn 7 September 2012, rebels attacked the Hanano military base. The FSA managed to free 350 detainees when they overran one of the main security buildings. Those wishing to defect were sent to various fighter positions in the region, while others remained in detention. Several brigades were assigned to the attack. The rebels tried to cut strategic supply lines and silence the artillery. The Army retook the base the next day, after a 20-hour battle with heavy casualties on both sides. The base served as a weapons storage depot, a conscript recruitment centre and housed the headquarters of the local branch of the military police and anti-riot police. According to SOHR, rebels stormed the area reserved for conscript recruitment.\n\nOn 8 September, SOHR reported that the Syrian Army advanced in Sa'ad al-Ansari (Iza'a), Saif al-Dawla and Salaheddine, following the withdrawal of rebel forces after heavy shelling. 21 Kurdish civilians were killed in the Sheikh Maksud neighborhood when Army forces shelled an area near the Marouf mosque, according to Kurdish activists.\n\nAleppo's main water pump was destroyed during the day. The Syrian government and opposition accused the other of the destruction.\n\nOn 9 September, a car bomb killed at least 30 civilians and wounded more than 64. The Governor of Aleppo said that the bombing took place near al-Hayat Hospital and the Central Hospital. The bombing caused significant material damage to the two hospitals, al-Nusour al-Zahabiya elementary school and nearby buildings. The next day the FSA took responsibility for the attack, claiming that the facilities were used by government troops. The attack was executed after the Air Force bombed rebel targets in Hanano, killing dozens.\n\nDuring the day, another car bomb exploded near Qutaybah Bin Muslim al-Bahili school in al-Shuhada'a neighbourhood. The bomb killed three civilians and injured six.\n\nOn 10 September, a three-day rebel assault on the Midan district was defeated and government forces pushed the rebels toward Bostan Pasha. At the same time, at least 20 Syrian soldiers were executed by the rebels after they had been captured at the Hanano barracks. The executors were members of the Hawks of Syria.\n\nOver the night of 11–12 September, the Army pounded rebel positions, focusing on the southern districts of Bustan al-Qasr, Sukari and Kellaseh and the northeastern districts of Sakhour, Sha'ar and Hanano. One resident said that helicopter gunships strafed the rebel district of Bostan Pasha. Fighting took place at dawn 12 September in Al-Nayrab area, five kilometres north of the airport in response to a rebel attack on the airport; the airport remained fully operational.\n\nOn 13 September, SOHR reported that 11 people were killed in an airstrike by warplanes in the Helweniyeh neighbourhood.\n\nRebel fighters reportedly advanced into Midan, a highly strategic area that opens the way into the main square. One resident said that \"They were at Bostan Pasha (district) and had already advanced up to Suleyman al-Halabi Street. Now they have entered a street in Midan,\" after heavy clashes were reported.\n\nThe fighting in Midan continued into the next day, centering on two police stations. The rebels captured the stations, were driven out by the military, returned in a counter-attack, and were attacked again. SANA claimed that the Army had cleared areas around the Hreitani building, Sports Institute and the Maternity Hospital. The rebels turned St Gregory Church into a battlefield when they tried to progress in Midan, before being forced back by heavy Army resistance.\n\nDuring the night, it was reported that the Army conducted air-strikes on the two police stations, forcing the rebels to retreat. An air-strike was also conducted against a rebel-held police station in Hanano. A unit of the Republican guard seized the Ansar Mosque in the rebel-controlled Arqoub district, which was strategically positioned in front of the Hanano military base.\n\nOn 15 September, the Army controlled most of al-Midan and set up checkpoints for the first time. Rebels still held some positions on the border between Midan and the rebel-held Bostan Pasha and Arqoub districts. Clashes continued at the entrance of Bostan Pasha and another air-strike hit the police post in Hanano. Beside fightings in al-Midan, SANA reported that the Army had clashed with rebels in al-Firdous and al-Midan.\n\nOn 16 September, rebel fighters made another attempt to push back into al-Midan. They fired RPGs through a wall encircling an Armenian Orthodox church from their stronghold in Suleiman al-Halabi Street. They then rushed the courtyard of the church but were driven back. Later, the military announced that the armed forces had completely cleared the al-Midan area and taken control of the district. This was confirmed by an AFP correspondent on the ground, although he said that there were a few areas where snipers were still active. The military advanced into the rebel-held Arkoub district. Members of the Republican Guards attacked and captured the Ansar mosque. The mosque had strategic importance, located directly in front of the Hanano military base.\n\nOn 18 September 2012, clashes were occurring in Iza'a and the government-held western Zahra district.\n\nThe rebels in Aleppo, due to a lack of foreign supplies, were manufacturing their own weapons. The rebels denied receiving any foreign support in the form of weapons. A rebel commander named Abdelkader el-Hadji stated \"The weapons we have now we captured from Assad's army. We now have a few tanks. Where do you think we got them? We took them from Assad.\"\n\nOn 20 September, the Syrian Army launched an operation to recapture Bustan al-Qasr. Killings occurred near al-Fidaa al-Arabi school. SANA said that other clashes occurred in Hanano, al-Fatayes quarter in al-Jadideh and al-Arqoub area and Qadi Askar roundabout. SANA said \"heavy losses\" were inflicted upon the rebels. Government troops engaged in street battles in the rebel-held Suleiman al-Halabi district, adjacent to al-Midan.\n\nOpposition forces attempted to unite the two largest rebel groups in Aleppo and the surrounding countryside under one command, so they could better coordinate. Analysts claimed that the stalemate was due to the Army's low morale and an inability to reinforce and resupply troops from Damascus via the highway. The government discussed the use of chemical weapons as a last resort, and Der Spiegel reported that the Syrian government had restarted chemical weapons tests in nearby Safira at the end of August. Aleppo activists reported 37 civilians killed within Aleppo city from the Army's overnight bombardment.\n\nOver the night of 20/21 September, fighting erupted near the Hanano military base, SOHR said. Bustan al-Qasr was still under attack after the Army attempted to recapture it. The Army also attacked Shakour during the day. Clashes were reported in Shakour roundabout where dozens of rebels had been killed, SANA said.\n\nOn 22 September, SANA said that the Army had recaptured the Third Industrial Institute in Suleiman al-Halabi neighbourhood and destroyed several rebel centres. The fighting for Suleimal al-Halabi had started two days before. The next day, the Syrian army had recaptured Qasr al-Wali restaurant in al-Sayyid Ali which was used as a rebel operations centre, according to SANA.\n\nOn 24 September, SANA said the Syrian Army took the Agricultural Institute and areas of al-Quran Mosque and Ali Nasser Agha School in Suleiman al-Halabi. SANA claimed that the Syrian army also recaptured the Christian al-Jdeideh neighbourhood.\n\nOn 25 September, an Army source told AFP that the Army's operations in Arkoub were finished and that the Army was involved in a door-to-door search for rebels. However, SOHR said that clashes were ongoing in Arkoub. SANA also reported continuing clashes in Suleiman al-Halabi and that clashes occurred in the Western al-Sakhour area and near al-Hakim Hospital in al-Shaar area.\n\nAFP reported on a meeting of rebel brigade commanders, at which the overall assessment of the situation was that they were in a stalemate due to a lack of ammunition, despite the capture of 5,000 assault rifles and 2,500 rocket launchers during the earlier raid on the Hanano military base.\n\nAccording to multiple sources, a new opposition offensive began on 27 September 2012, which promised to be \"zero hour\" in the start of a \"decisive battle\" to capture the city. A rebel commander said they wanted to surprise the Army, which had started to creep forward towards the southern neighborhoods. He claimed the Tawhid brigade was enticing the Army forward. The operation included 6,000 fighters of the Tawhid brigade, in addition to brigades such as al-Fatah and Ahfad al-Fatiheen for the Turkmen. Weapons and ammunition captured during the attack on the Hananou base were used. He denied that the FSA had proclaimed \"decisive\" battles for Aleppo before.\n\nThe government texted most of the mobile/cellphones in the area that read in part: \"You have two choices; either be killed facing the State or the State will kill you to get rid of you, you decide...the game is over...the countdown has begun to expel all militants from neighboring countries...\" The message was sent to all Syrians with subscriptions to the country's two cellphone service providers in the Aleppo area.\n\nOn the second day of the offensive, there was a growing threat of clashes between the rebels and a Kurdish militia believed to be linked to the PKK. The rebels, who grew suspicious over some Kurdish militants' ties with the government, also threatened to confront groups they said were linked to the PKK in neighboring Turkey. Tawhid Brigade commander Abdul Qader Saleh, requested that the Kurdish militia surrender and \"not drag themselves into a losing battle that is not their fight.\" Shortly thereafter, rebels attempted to advance into the Kurdish-held Sheikh Maqsoud district in the north, where they reported capturing eight Shabbiha militiamen. Opposition activists and rebels reported that the Kurdish militia engaged the rebels and fought alongside government troops against the rebel forces in Sheikh Maqsoud. SANA said that district residents were fighting alongside the Syrian army against the rebel offensive.\n\nFighting was reported in central and southern parts of the city. The main points of the rebel attack close to the center were towards the government-held Hamidiya and al-Midan districts. Residents in previously peaceful neighborhoods told AFP that the violence was \"unprecedented\", saying \"The sound from the fighting has been non-stop,\" \"Everyone is terrified. I have never heard anything like this before.\" In the south, rebels advanced through the Izaa, Saif al-Dawla and Sukari districts. Rebel commander Abu Furat said that during the fighting a regular army base was taken in Salaheddine and 25 soldiers were killed before they were forced to retreat. According to one rebel, 20 of their fighters were killed and 60 wounded during the fighting. FSA forces also reportedly suffered heavy losses in the Bdama neighborhood, where a rebel battalion's first lieutenant was killed. Rebels reported that one of their units was surrounded during the clashes, while some other battalions pulled out of the frontline or had never joined the battle.\n\nThe leader of the Sham Falcon's brigade claimed the rebel fighters were able to progress in al-Arqoub, Maysaloon, Abdulla al-Jaberi square, Hamdaniya and Jamiliya. He said that the Syrian army was using planes and barrels of explosives, and \"there were ferocious battles in Salehaden and al-Ameriya and al-Sukari. It is a guerrilla war. The Syrian army would come forward 10 metres, we would move forward 50 metres and then if we need to pull back, we pull back.\" SOHR's Abdel Rahman said, \"Neither the regime nor the rebels are able to gain a decisive advantage.\"\n\nRebels claimed to have stormed a government radio station, while government war planes bombed the city's outskirts. A major fire engulfed Aleppo's medieval markets, destroying an estimated 700 to 1,000 shops. A major tourist attraction, the covered markets were among the largest in the Middle East. The rebels blamed the fire on army shelling. According to SANA, clashes took place in al Kalisah, al Firdous, Bab al-Nairab, Bab al-Hadid and Bustan al-Qasr. According to the Irish Times, the rebel offensive had dissolved in a street fight after the Army tenaciously defended its positions. Irish Times and Reuters reported that some rebels units were surrounded and others retreated even before entering the city. According to SANA, the Army was in full control of al-Amiriyah and most of Tal az-Zarazir streets. SOHR said that clashes were taking place in al-Arqoub and Aziziya, while Salaheddine had once again become a focal point.\n\nOn the third day of the offensive, an activist claimed to CNN that rebels had taken control of at least four neighbourhoods and rebels were reported to have fired mortars at al-Nayrab Military Airport, damaging two helicopters and a main runway. The Syrian government denied that helicopters were destroyed, claiming that those reports were an attempt to raise rebel morale. According to Sana, the Army targeted positions and inflicted losses near the Infirmary and the Sport Institute in Bustan al-Basha and near the Cotton Gins area, east and north of al-Jandoul. Another operation is mentioned near the crossroads of Baleh town, west of Aleppo, with rebel casualties. SANA also said clashes occurred in Qastal Harami, al-Sayyed Ali and Maysaloun Hospital areas. A Turkish fighter, who led an armed rebel unit and its members was reported dead in clashes with the army in al-Tananeer Square.\n\nOpposition fighters from the Tawhid brigade and other northern brigades announced that they had partially taken over the Jandoul roundabout in Aleppo. Fighters also said 15 government soldiers were killed and three tanks were destroyed.\n\nHowever, overall, the rebel offensive had stalled and opposition fighters were struggling to hold on to their positions under heavy artillery fire. One rebel described the current situation as 'boring' with the battle becoming yet another stalemate. Rebels blamed the stalemate on their low ammunition and inferior firepower.\n\nOn 1 October 2012, SOHR said that more than 40 were either killed or injured by bombs in the Karm al-Jabal neighborhood in the al-Sha'ar area. Several neighborhoods were bombed including Shakur and Salaheddine. The next day, rebels claimed to have repulsed attacks in Hanano, and that they were in control of most of the Old City in the face of heavy artillery fire. The rebels appeared to be moving towards the city center.\n\nThe pro-government Lebanese \"Al-Diyar\" newspaper announced that Assad had flown to Aleppo by helicopter at dawn and had ordered 30,000 additional government troops and 2,000 personnel carriers from Hama province (army units 5 and 6). SANA made no mention of any visit.\n\nOn 3 October, three suicide car bombs exploded at the eastern corner of the central Saadallah Al-Jabiri Square killing 34. More than 122 people were reported to be heavily injured. Islamist militant group Jabhat Al-Nusra claimed responsibility. The bombs targeted the Officers' club and the nearby buildings of the Touristic Hotel and the historic Jouha Café. The hotel received major damage while the café was entirely destroyed. A small building within the Officers' club was ruined as well.\n\nGovernment troops killed two more would-be suicide bombers before they could detonate their explosives. Syrian state TV showed the bodies of three men wearing army uniforms at the bomb site. One of them appeared to be wearing an explosive belt with a timer tied to his wrist. Later, al-Qaeda-linked extremist militant group the Al-Nusra Front claimed responsibility. The group stated that it was carried out by suicide car bombers, followed by attackers disguised as Army soldiers. The UN Security Council unanimously condemned the bombings as a \"terrorist attack\".\n\nRebel fighters attacked a political intelligence branch as well as an old vegetable market where a large number of troops were posted, according to the Observatory. Overnight, rebels reportedly destroyed two tanks in the city. The Army battled rebels in several neighbourhoods, including Saif al-Dawla and Sakhur. It also shelled the Bab al-Nayrab, Salaheddine, Mashhad, Bab al-Nasr and Sakhur districts. The fighting led to the destruction of an Army tank and the killing of several Army troops.\n\nOn 5 October, state-run Syrian TV said that government forces \"cleansed Sakhour of terrorists and mercenaries.\" After days of fighting, an AP correspondent said that the rebels lost control of several buildings in Saif al-Dawla, after close-quarter combat.\n\nMeanwhile, rebel fighters claimed to have made advances in the strategic district of Salaheddine, claiming that they had taken the square, lost it and then retaken it after a lengthy battle.\n\nAn AFP correspondent reported intense street battles in Arkoub district. The insurgents had occupied health facilities and schools as makeshift bases. There were signs of strain from troops, with one officer admitting \"the battle for Arkoub is as tough as the struggle for Hanano\" last month. One soldier said he had not returned home once, to Homs, in three months. The neighborhoods of Bustan al-Qasr, al-Helk and al-Haydariya were bombed by Army forces.\n\nOn 6 October, Syrian state television said that four Turks were among a group of foreign fighters that the army had killed there. Iranian Press TV claimed that the Army had captured the Shakour district, but the FSA said they repulsed the assault after heavy clashes.\n\nAn AFP correspondent said that the Syrian Air Force was continuously bombing the Bab al-Hadid, Arkub and Shaar neighborhoods that surrounded the besieged Hanano barracks. Locals called it the worst fighting since the battle began. The BBC found a cache of ammunition manufactured in Ukraine and addressed to the Saudi Arabian Army. The ammunition was stored in a mosque used by the rebels. Saudi and Qatari were suspected of supplying ammunition to the rebels but not heavier weapons, such as anti-aircraft missiles, due to American concerns about extremists obtaining such equipment.\n\nOn 9 October, rebels claimed control of the strategic town of Maarrat al-Nu'man, a town on the Aleppo/Damascus highway from where many of the Army's reinforcements were joining the battle. Seizing the town was believed to be part of a campaign to isolate the Army.\n\nOn 10 October, rebels launched an attack against the Great Mosque of Aleppo where government forces were based. During four hours of fighting rebels tried to blast holes in the walls of the mosque with RPGs before storming the site but were repelled, leaving rebel snipers to attack the government forces. They had launched an earlier attack against the mosque on 8 October but government forces in the Citadel thwarted them.\n\nThe government bombarded the districts of Haidariyeh, Sukari and Fardoss at dawn, as fierce fighting broke out in Sakhur, Suleiman al-Halabi and Sheikh Khodr. One hospital in a rebel area admitted 100 patients a day with less than 10 doctors. Veterinarians were used in some cases given a shortage of human doctors.\n\nOn 12 October, rebel forces seized an air defense base east of the city, near al-Tana village and Koris military airport. After the capture, government air-strikes destroyed most of the rockets and radars at the base. By the end of the day, the rebels were preparing to withdraw, fearing more strikes.\n\nOn 13 October, a large explosion struck the Air Force Intelligence Directorate office followed by heavy clashes. The Directorate is considered important given Assad's role as commander of the Syrian Air Force in the 1960s. Rebels also broke into the Umayyad Mosque by using an explosive charge to attack government forces stationed there.\n\nOn 14 October, the Umayyad Mosque was set on fire after Army forces withdrew from it the previous day. Rebels destroyed the southern entrance to get direct access into the internal yard. Later, it was confirmed that the Army's counter-attack recaptured the mosque. The mosque sustained the most damage since an 1822 earthquake struck.\n\nA MiG fighter, believed to be a MiG-23, was shot down on 15 October. The pilot ejected and was taken prisoner by rebel forces.\n\nOn 21 October, \"a suicide car bomber\" caused a blast in the New Syriac quarter wounding several people and damaging the Syrian-French hospital and al-Kalima school.\n\nOn 25 October 2012, some 200 rebels moved into Ashrafiyeh district in the Kurdish-controlled area of Sheikh Maqsud. It was the first time that substantial government or rebel forces moved into Kurdish areas. The area had been regarded as neutral with Kurdish militia clashing with both rebel and army units. The rebel unit responsible was allegedly the Liwa al-Tawhid brigade who reportedly told the locals that \"We are here to spend Eid with you\". Ashrafiyeh is important as a part of the city heights and controls routes between the north and south of Aleppo. Previous rebel attempts to move into the district had been repelled. Rebels were reported to have taken control of the Syriac quarter.\n\nAnalyst Joshua Landis said that according to reports he had received, the Syrian army had retreated from the Aleppo center, allowing the FSA to control the central Christian neighborhoods of Jedida and Qadime. The claims were unverified due to a lack of reporters on the ground. Locals from the Armenian district of Al-Zukur said that the FSA had entered their district leading to clashes.\n\nAn aide to colonel Riad al-Asaad confirmed the reports of the FSA's recent advances and claimed that the rebels captured the Salaheddine district. The spokesman of the Liwaa al Shabhah brigade claimed that the FSA had limited the Syrian army to five districts. It was unclear whether the rebels had the strength to hold the new areas and there were indications that the rebels had been forced out of some areas by late afternoon, with one resident saying that the government forces were fighting fiercely.\n\nOn 25 October, one FSA fighter told the Guardian that their main focus was on security branches the Syrian army used as bases. He said that rebels were in the process of besieging the Midan security branch and stopped Army reinforcements from getting to the police school in Khan al-Assal district which had been under FSA siege for 10 days. The fighter claimed that the Ashrafiya take-over by the rebels was the result of a deal with the PKK.\n\nSANA said that the Army had recaptured the Syrian-French Hospital. Some rebels believed that the increased talk of a truce from the Syrian government was an effort to stop rebel gains and to use the four days of Eid to reinforce their forces.\n\nLater, a rebel commander claimed that the FSA were fighting in Arqoub, Siryan, Zahra and Firqan districts and had secured Suleiman al Halabi. Local activists claimed fierce clashes were occurring around the Airport and that rebels were trying to besiege the Nairab base just south of the city. The center of Aleppo was reported to be in rebel hands with snipers in positions to block counterattacks. The retreat from the city center was seen as either a government trap or signs that the rebel tactic of attacking the government's supply lines was working. Another question was whether the government was prepared to bomb Christian and Kurdish areas, like other rebel-held areas in the past, and risk dragging them into the rebel camp. Rebels who had taken the predominantly Christian areas and Jdeidah, where Lawrence of Arabia once stayed, reported intimidation by the rebels who feared retaliation from both sides in the conflict. The rebels also claimed to have had encircled the Citadel of Aleppo.\n\nRebel activists claimed that Kurdish forces had either reached agreement with rebels to allow their rapid advance or assisted the rebels by simply leaving their checkpoints overnight. One rebel spokesman claimed that Kurdish forces might join the Free Syrian Army.\n\nIt was reported that government tanks moved into Faisal street, the main thoroughfare running the length of the Christian districts of al-Jadide and Qadime, forcing the rebels to make a tactical retreat back into the Kurdish Ashrafiyya district. The tanks positioned themselves at Ashrafiyeh district the next day, leading some to fear the possibility of the district being shelled, although the tanks did not open fire. However, Kurdish activists claimed that army howitzers shelled Ashrafiyya, leaving 15 people dead including 8 Kurds. Two journalists were among the 15 wounded in the attack. Kurdish activists also accused the Syrian Government of shelling Kurdish buses that were coming from Erfin to Aleppo earlier in the month, causing 15 deaths and 19 injuries.\n\nOn 26 October, the Syrian authorities accused rebels of breaking the Eid truce. SANA said that rebels opened fire on the Army in several places while the Army responded with fire as well inflicting \"heavy losses\" upon the rebels. Mid-day, rebels tried to overrun a checkpoint near the Mohasab army base in the northeast Seryan district. Meanwhile, AFP reported that the Syrian army was guarding the entrance to the Old City. It was also reported that government troops had expelled rebels from the Armenian area of Al-Zukur.\n\nRebels clashed with Kurdish militias that tried to stop them entering the Sheikh Maqsud neighbourhood. 19 rebels and 5 Kurdish fighters were killed. One Kurdish leader said that they had \"a gentlemen's agreement\" with the rebels that they would not enter Kurdish areas and that the rebels had violated it when they entered Ashrafiyeh. According to a report by activists who organised a Kurdish protest at a PYD militant checkpoint between the Kurdish areas of Ashrafiyeh and al-Sheikh Maqsoud, rebel fighters opened fire on the protesters, leaving eight dead and five wounded. Overall, PYD stated that 10 Kurds were killed during the clashes, including three fighters. SOHR put the Kurdish toll at 11, for a total of 30 dead, when including the 19 rebels. 200 people were kidnapped or captured as a result of the fighting. The PYD captured 20 rebel fighters, while the rebels detained 180 Kurds, civilians and fighters. SOHR said that the PYD was still in control of the Ashrafiyeh neighbourhood. A later PYD statement blamed both the Army and the FSA for the violence. \"We have chosen to remain neutral, and we will not take sides in a war that will only bring suffering and destruction to our country,\" the statement said. The rebels said that the clashes started after their forces attacked a security compound in Ashrafieh, which was defended by both PKK fighters and government troops. A new report, several days later, put the combatant death toll at 30 rebels and 15 PYD fighters.\n\nOn 27 October, SANA said that the rebels attacked the water pumping station in Sleiman al-Halabi neighbourhood cutting water from the western part of the city. Rebels were accused of kidnapping Lebanese TV journalist Fidaa Itani because his coverage was considered \"not suitable\" for \"the Syrian revolution and revolutionaries\". He was later freed by the rebels and left for Turkey.\n\nRebels fanning out West of Aleppo were besieging the Zahra air intelligence base and came under fire from the Ramoussa artillery base which they assaulted from the south. A rebel spokesperson claimed that the Zahra and Ramoussa bases were crucial for the regimes defenses given their lack of manpower.\n\nIn a new round of clashes in the Kurdish areas, rebels opened fire on Kurdish protesters, killing three of them.\n\nThe battle for the Zahra air intelligence base was complicated by the possible presence of civilian prisoners.\n\nOn 1 November 2012, a bakery was bombed in Atareb killing at least 12 people. The bakery was important since it delivered bread to 40 towns near Aleppo. The government bombed three other bakeries in and around Aleppo at Kafar Hamra, Ramoon and Qadi Askar. These bakeries were responsible for most of the bread in the area.\n\nOn 2 November, SOHR incorrectly reported the execution of Shah Ali Abdu, also known as Nujin Derik, the Kurdish militia leader for Aleppo, whom the rebels captured while she was on a mission to return the bodies of rebel fighters killed during the clashes between the FSA and the Kurdish militia. She commanded a unit responsible for protecting the Kurdish districts of Ashrafiyeh and Sheikh Maqsud. The report later proved to be false.\n\nOn 5 November, clashes occurred at a roundabout in Zahraa district, near the city's northwest entrance, and on the road to the airport. In Zahraa a fire started in a building close to air force intelligence branch. The Syrian Arab Red Crescent reported that a fire had burnt down its main warehouse, destroying supplies needed for the upcoming winter. Fighting was reported near the airport.\n\nOn 11 November, fighting was reported for the first time in the northwest Liramun neighbourhood. SANA claimed that the Syrian army took Al-Sheikh Saeed Area. During the day, the Army pounded rebel positions in the northern area. Rebels began using 'barrel bombs' similar to those dropped on rebel areas by the Air Force in an attack on an army position in Karem Jabal district. They rolled through the sewers underneath the guardpost before being detonated.\n\nOn 17 November, a car bomb exploded in Liramun. The Syrian Army and the rebels continued to fight in the northwest.\n\nOn 18 November, rebels stormed the home base of the 46th Regiment in nearby Urum al-Sughra, securing the base the following day in a key strategic victory following a two-month siege. The fall of Base 46 has further isolated government troops fighting in Aleppo as well as in Idlib Province while simultaneously providing the rebels with secure supply routes from the Turkish border and much-needed ammunition and heavy weaponry. The nearby army base at Sheikh Suleiman remained in government hands, though rebel forces had stepped up their attacks on it in the aftermath of Base 46's capture.\n\nOn 22 November, a building next to a major Aleppo hospital was targeted by an airstrike that killed at least 15 people according to the SOHR, including at least 11 rebels, a doctor and three children. The Dar al-Shifa hospital was a private clinic before it was turned into a field hospital by opposition forces. It has been targeted at least six times in recent months, mainly affecting the upper floors of the seven-story high building. Only 400–500 yards from the front line it is in a heavily shelled area and one of the few remaining medical clinics for residents in Aleppo.\n\nOn 26 November, rebels claimed to control most of the roads to Aleppo, leaving the Damascus-Aleppo highway as the only supply route to government forces in the city.\n\nOn 27 November, rebels shot down a Syrian military helicopter on the outskirts of Aleppo using a surface-to-air missile.\n\nOn 28 November, the situation in the city's centre was calm with shootings and explosions being heard in the Armenian New Village neighbourhood.\n\nIt was reported in December that the Bustan al-Basha neighbourhood had been shelled, while the clashes were ongoing on the airport road. On 3 December, clashes were reported in Midan and the nearby Suleiman al-Halabi districts, while government forces shelled villages near the Ground Forces Academy. Activists reported that five bodies had been found in al-Soufayra. However, fierce combat soon broke out within Bustan al-Basha district, held by the Islamist al-Nusra Front and Ahrar ash-Sham groups, according to a military source. The Syrian Army advanced from Midan, taking control of the main avenue and reaching Zahi Hospital in Halak neighbourhood. Islamists continued to hold the side streets and fighting was ongoing.\n\nEarly in December, the chemical plant SYSACCO was taken by rebel fighters from the Al-Nusra Front. The factory produces liquid chlorine among other chemicals.\n\nOn 5 December, Morocco's honorary consul, Mohamed Alae Eddinne, and another man were killed by a group of armed men when Eddinne tried to leave a hotel in Aleppo.\n\nSheikh Suleiman base was overrun by opposition forces on 10 December. A hundred Army soldiers who were left inside the base retreated to the scientific building wearing gas masks. Al-Nusra Front led the attack with only one FSA group taking part, one FSA commander said. Many of the fighters were from Central Asia with the rebel commander coming from Uzbekistan.\n\nOn 15 December, Colonel Yusef al-Jader, army officer and defector and top rebel commander for the Tawhid Brigade, was killed in action during an assault on the military academy located near Muslimiyeh, just north of Aleppo. Al-Jader, also known as Abu Furat, was said to be suspicious of the growing jihadist presence in the war and sought to \"keep Jabhat al-Nusra at bay\". SOHR reported that rebels had captured large parts of the academy, while Republican Guard troops were deployed by helicopter to the base in a counterattack. Opposition forces eventually took control of the academy, a campus of around . At least 24 rebels and 20 government soldiers were killed in the fighting. The remaining government troops withdrew from the base and regrouped near the prison at Muslimiyeh and the al-Kindi Hospital in the Palestinian refugee neighbourhood of Handarat, which had been captured from the rebels on 14 December. However, they remained encircled by opposition forces.\n\nDuring the fighting bread rose from $0.35 (USD) to $3 for a bag of 8 loaves. On 16 December, the rebel al-Tawhid Brigade took control of the military Infantry School, in the town of Musalmiyeh, 16 kilometers north of Aleppo, after three weeks of fighting.\n\nBeginning in late 2012, fighting intensified around the area of the airport. The al-Nusra Front unilaterally declared a no-fly zone in December and threatened to shoot down commercial aircraft, alleging that the government was using them to transport loyalist troops and military supplies. After multiple attacks on Aleppo International Airport, all flights were suspended on 1 January 2013. Rebels attacked loyalist troops at the airport perimeter, including the nearby Brigade 80. By mid-February, at least 150 people had died in this fighting.\n"}
{"id": "13277304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13277304", "title": "Descendants of the Bounty mutineers", "text": "Descendants of the Bounty mutineers\n\nThe descendants of the \"Bounty\" mutineers and their Tahitian consorts include the modern-day Pitcairn Islanders as well as a little less than half of the population of Norfolk Island. Their descendants also live in New Zealand, Australia, and the United States. Because of the scarcity of people on the island, many of the mutineers' children and grandchildren intermarried, with some marrying cousins and second cousins. Occasionally a new person would arrive on the island bringing with them a new surname (like the American Samuel Russell Warren, whose descendants still live on the island today).\n\nFletcher Christian\nby Mauatua (a.k.a. Maimiti, a.k.a. Mi'Mitti, a.k.a. Mainmast, a.k.a. Isabella, also consort of Ned Young)\n\nNed Young\nby Mauatua (also consort of Fletcher Christian)\nNed Young\nby Toofaiti, a.k.a. Hutia, a.k.a. Nancy\n\nJohn Adams\nby Vahineatua, a.k.a. Bal'hadi, a.k.a. Prudence, consort of John Mills\nJohn Adams\nby Teio, a.k.a. Mary, consort of William McCoy\n\nJohn Mills\nby Vahineatua consort of John Adams\n\nWilliam McCoy\nby Teio, a.k.a. Mary\n\nMatthew Quintal\nby Tevarua, a.k.a. Sarah\nMatthew Quintal\nby Teraura, a.k.a. Susan, consort of Ned Young and Thursday October Christian\n\nThursday October Christian son of Fletcher Christian by Teraura (also consort of Ned Young)\n\nMatthew Quintal son of Matthew Quintal by Elizabeth Mills daughter of John Mills\n\nDaniel McCoy son of William McCoy by Sarah Quintal daughter of Matthew Quintal\n\nCharles Christian son of Fletcher Christian by Sarah (Mar 1789 – 7 Mar 1826) daughter of Teio\n\nDorothy (Dolly) Young by John Buffett an English sailor\n\nArthur Quintal son of Matthew Quintal by Catherine McCoy daughter of William McCoy\nby Mary Christian granddaughter of Fletcher Christian\n\nGeorge Young son of Ned Young by Hannah Adams daughter of John Adams\n\nEdward Young son of Ned Young by Polly Christian granddaughter of Fletcher Christian\n\nRachel Adams daughter of John Adams by John Evans an English sailor\n\nWilliam Young son of Ned Young by Elizabeth Mills daughter of John Mills\n\nEdward Quintal son of Matthew Quintal by Dinah Adams daughter of John Adams\n\nGeorge Adams son of John Adams by Polly Young daughter of Ned Young\n\n\n\nThe majority of the many rulers of the Pitcairn Islands have been descendants of the \"Bounty\" mutineers, till this day.\n\nIn 1935 - in the wake of their successful American blockbuster movie \"Mutiny on the Bounty\", which premiered that year - the MGM Studios also shot a short documentary with the title \"Pitcairn Island Today\" (a Eugene H. Roth production, narrated by Carey Wilson). It tells the story of some of the descendants of the \"Bounty\" mutineers, who were natives of Pitcairn and inhabitants of the only village of the island, Adamstown.\n\nThe list of descendants mentioned and presented in this MGM documentary includes:\n\n\nOn top of those, three more people are mentioned in the MGM documentary: Andrew Warren (grandson of a whaler who came to Pitcairn around 1875, thus being no descendant of the mutineers), as well as Dora Warren and Roy Clark, whose exact direct descent from the mutineers (or lack of such) remains unclear, when judging only from the information that the documentary reveals.\n\nA 1962 documentary, \"Pitcairn People\" (directed by Peter Newington, narrated by Patrick Wymark), was produced by the British Petroleum Company. It featured many of the island residents of that time. Another documentary, \"Miracle on Pitcairn Island\", was produced in the 1960s by the General Conference of Seventh-day Adventists (filmed and written by Eric Were, narrated by Neal C. Wilson). It featured many of the same residents.\n"}
{"id": "2605693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2605693", "title": "FOSSAP", "text": "FOSSAP\n\nThe Free and Open Source Software Asia-Pacific Consultation, or FOSSAP, was an event promoting free and open source software held twice in Asia, in 2004 and 2005. The first event was held in March 2004 in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, while the second event was held in September 2005 in Siem Reap, Cambodia.\n\nFOSSAP was organised by the International Open Source Network, which is part of the United Nations Development Programme's Asia-Pacific Development Information Programme. FOSSAP-II was sponsored by UNDP-APDIP with Intel Corporation as its co-sponsors. Local hosts were the National ICT Development Authority (NiDA) of Cambodia and the Open Forum, Cambodia.\n\nAccording to the organisers, FOSSAP II was aimed at providing \"an effective policy-level platform for the exchange of information and experiences in the use of Free and Open Source Software (FOSS) for development\". FOSS has earlier been described as FLOSS, or Free/Libre and Open Source Software.\n\nThey also argued that \"there is a growing need for awareness on the benefits of FOSS, assistance with formulation of national policies, and case studies of FOSS implementation. This consultation sees its primary target as policy-makers \"who can influence national Information and Communication Technology (ICT) policies\".\n\nFOSSAP-II was a three-day event, held September 1–3, 2005, in Siem Reap. It had participants from twenty countries in Asia, including FOSS campaigners, supporters, funders, software developers and government officials. The focus was on capacity building, localisation, development paradigms of Free/Libre and Open Source Software (FLOSS), open content, and e-governance.\nCambodian deputy prime minister Sok An, in a speech delivered on his behalf, argued that Free and Open Source Software could help a country like Cambodia to have a \"lot of savings in license fees\", make software readily available locally and reduce usage costs drastically, eliminate software piracy, and enable Cambodian students to closely study the software code and \"understand its behaviour\".\n\nRichard Stallman, the founder of the Free Software Foundation, said at the end of the conference: \"People here represent a broad spectrum in beliefs and their goals. There are people from both the Free Software and Open Source movements. It looks like we can work together and make programs that ensure users can be in control of the software they use. I've seen a lot of useful things come up here.\"\n\nSoftware localisation—or translating software into local languages—was another issue strongly discussed. There were interesting issues that came up about localisation of software into the Khmer language. One of the suggestions to come up was that FOSS needed its \"global ambassador\" to promote its case. \n\nParticipants came from Bangladesh including the Bengal Linux Project; Myanmar and the Burma IT Project; Cambodia including its National ICT Development Authority (NiDA) and the Open Forum Cambodia; China including the Chinese Co-create Association; Fiji, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Iran, Laos, Malaysia, Mongolia, Nepal, FOSSFP Free and Open Source Software Foundation of Pakistan, the Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Thailand, and Vietnam. Other participants came from the United Nations Development Programme, the Uniced, the Free Software Foundation, Intel, etc.\n\nSessions looked at FLOSS in government and the public sector, case studies of FLOSS in education, FLOSS in ICT4D, or Information and Communication Technologies for Development, government-lead community initiatives, and FLOSS community initiatives led by GNU/Linux user groups.\n\nThere were special parallel sessions to discuss FLOSS and policy, FLOSS and capacity building, FLOSS and localisation, FLOSS and open standards, FLOSS and development practise, FLOSS and e-government, and software localisation teams in the FLOSS world.\n\n"}
{"id": "37628258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37628258", "title": "Formal Trilogue meeting", "text": "Formal Trilogue meeting\n\nA formal trilogue meeting, more commonly known as a Trilogue, is a type of meeting used in the European Union (EU) legislative process. It takes its name from a literary form, the trilogue, which means a conversation with three parties.\n\nTrilogue negotiations are provided for in EU treaties. They are used if the Council of the European Union does not agree to the amendments proposed by the European Parliament at the second reading. In this case, formal trilogue negotiations are carried out within the framework of a conciliation committee. A trilogue is understood as an equally composite tripartite meeting between those involved in the legislative process of the EU institutions. These bodies are the European Commission (EC), the Council of the European Union and the European Parliament. The European Commission takes on the mediating function.\n\nCritics argue that the use of trilogues is detrimental to transparency in the legislative process. They believe the EC uses this process to bypass public transparency and the supposed opposition the proposed legislation would cause.\n\n"}
{"id": "4080595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4080595", "title": "Frédéric Bourdin", "text": "Frédéric Bourdin\n\nFrédéric Pierre Bourdin (born 13 June 1974) is a French serial impostor the press has nicknamed \"The Chameleon\". He began his impersonations as a child and claims to have assumed at least 500 false identities, three of which have been actual teenage missing persons.\n\nBorn in Nanterre, Bourdin was raised by his grandparents in Nantes until he ran away and eventually went to Paris. He never knew his father, whom his mother stated was a married Algerian immigrant named Kaci.\n\nNicholas Barclay, aged 13 at the time, was last seen playing basketball with his friends in his home town of San Antonio, Texas, on 13 June 1994. Barclay never made it home and has not been seen or heard from since. In 1997, Bourdin took Barclay's identity and was flown to the United States. Although, Bourdin had brown eyes and a French accent, he convinced the family he was their blue-eyed son, saying he had escaped from a child prostitution ring and the ring had altered his eye color. Bourdin lived with the family for almost five months until the 6th of March, 1998.\n\nIn late 1997, a local private investigator grew suspicious while he was working with a TV crew that had been filming the family. The investigator compared a photo of Bourdin's ears to Nicholas' ears and discovered that they did not match. In February 1998, the FBI obtained a court order to take the young man's fingerprints and DNA, which were later identified as belonging to Bourdin. In September 1998, Bourdin pleaded guilty to passport fraud and perjury in a San Antonio federal court. He was imprisoned for six years, more than twice as long as recommended by the sentencing guidelines.\n\nWhen Bourdin returned to France from the U.S. in 2003, he moved to Grenoble and assumed the identity of Léo Balley, a 14-year-old French boy who had been missing since 1996; DNA testing proved he was not Balley.\n\nIn August 2004, he was in Spain, claiming to be an adolescent named Ruben Sanchez Espinoza whose mother had been killed in the Madrid bomb attacks. When the police found out the truth, they deported him to France.\n\nIn June 2005, Bourdin passed himself off as Francisco Hernandes-Fernandez, a 15-year-old Spanish orphan, and spent a month in the College Jean Monnet in Pau, France. He claimed that his parents had been killed in a car accident. He dressed as a teenager, adopted a proper walking style, covered his receding hairline with a baseball cap and used depilatory face creams. On 12 June, an administrator from his school unmasked him after seeing a television program about his exploits. On 16 September, he was sentenced to four months in prison for possessing and using the previous false identity of Léo Balley.\n\nAccording to interviews, Bourdin has been looking for \"love and affection\" and attention he never received as a child. He has pretended to be an orphan several times.\n\nOn 8 August 2007, Bourdin married a French woman named Isabelle after a year-long courtship. The couple resides in Le Mans with their five children. On March 23rd, 2017, Bourdin made a Facebook post stating that Isabelle had left him for another man, claiming she had been unhappy for 10 years and very unhappy in recent months. He claims that she left him with their children.\n\nAccording to \"The Daily Mirror\", Bourdin claimed that he would \"never impersonate anyone again\". Bourdin was interviewed in 2008 by David Grann, a staff writer for \"The New Yorker\". After Isabelle gave birth to their first child, Bourdin contacted Grann and told him that the child was a girl. Grann then asked if Bourdin had become a new person now that he was a father and a husband, to which Bourdin replied, \"No, this is who I am.\"\n\nAired on January 6, 2009, \"\", episode \"Stranger\" (Season 10, Episode 11), fundamentally resembles Bourdin moving into a family's home by impersonating their missing son Nicholas Barclay, living in their home for some time before eventually being discovered as well as coming forward with allegations of his own abuse when confronted in court. While the fictional episode changes the names and sexes of the base characters, the situational elements remain parallel in their similarities. The story formula (along with its resemblance to Bourdin) was later largely reused in the October 25, 2017 episode \"Complicated\" (Season 19, Episode 5).\n\nIn 2010, a fictionalized account of the Nicholas Barclay case was brought to theaters under the title \"The Chameleon\", by French director and screenwriter Jean-Paul Salomé. Bourdin – renamed Fortin in the film – was portrayed by Canadian actor Marc-André Grondin. The film was adapted from \"Le Caméléon\", Christophe D'Antonio's authorized biography of Bourdin. It premiered at the 2010 Tribeca Film Festival.\n\n\"The Imposter\", a documentary about Bourdin's impersonation of Nicholas Barclay, premiered at the Sundance Film Festival in January 2012.\n"}
{"id": "1430822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1430822", "title": "GP2 Series", "text": "GP2 Series\n\nThe GP2 Series was a form of open wheel motor racing introduced in 2005 following the discontinuation of the long-term Formula One feeder series, Formula 3000. The GP2 format was conceived by Bernie Ecclestone and Flavio Briatore, while Ecclestone also has the rights to the name GP1. In 2010, the GP3 Series class was launched, as a feeder class for the GP2 series. In 2017, the series was rebranded as the FIA Formula 2 Championship.\n\nDesigned to make racing affordable for the teams and to make it the perfect training ground for life in Formula One, GP2 has made it mandatory for all of the teams to use the same chassis, engine and tyre supplier so that true driver ability is reflected. All but three races had taken place as support races at Formula One race weekends to boost the series' profile, to give drivers experience of the Grand Prix environment, and to take advantage of the infrastructure (marshals, medical facilities etc.) in place for a Formula One event. GP2 mainly races on European circuits, but has appearances on other international race tracks as well with their most recent races in the 2012 season at the Sepang International Circuit in Malaysia and the Marina Bay Street Circuit in Singapore.\n\nMany drivers have used GP2 as a stepping stone into Formula One. The 2005 Champion Nico Rosberg was hired by the Williams team for the 2006 F1 campaign, 2006 GP2 winner Lewis Hamilton made the transition to F1 the following year with McLaren and the 2007 Champion Timo Glock to Toyota for the 2008 F1 season. 2009 GP2 champion Nico Hülkenberg moved up to a Williams F1 race driver in the 2010 Formula 1 season. In addition, Heikki Kovalainen (2005), Nelson Piquet Jr. (2006) and Lucas di Grassi (2007) —all runners up— became Renault test drivers the following year. All three earned F1 seats, but have since been replaced.\n\nKarun Chandhok, Bruno Senna and Vitaly Petrov were also granted an F1 seat in 2010. For 2011 Pastor Maldonado was granted a seat at Williams. This meant that Nico Hülkenberg was deposed by Williams. Sergio Pérez was given the drive alongside Kamui Kobayashi, another former GP2 driver and GP2 Asia Series winner, at Sauber. Jérôme d'Ambrosio got his Virgin Racing drive for the 2011 season. However, some drivers have reached Formula One without competing in GP2, for example Paul di Resta, Daniel Ricciardo, Jean-Éric Vergne, Valtteri Bottas, and Kevin Magnussen.\n\nDuring 2011, it was announced that in 2012 the GP2 and GP2 Asia Series would combine to make a single, longer GP2 series.\n\nCurrent Formula One drivers that have graduated from the GP2 series include Lewis Hamilton, Romain Grosjean, Stoffel Vandoorne, recently Pierre Gasly (who triumphed in the 2016 staging amongst various others). Lewis Hamilton stepping straight into the McLaren team and Nico Hülkenberg, Pastor Maldonado and Kazuki Nakajima going straight to Williams have particularly highlighted how F1 teams take F2 seriously, and Hamilton's Formula One World Championship title in only his second year in F1 is probably the strongest example of the series creating highly competitive racers.\n\nAt the end of the 2016 season, nine of the twelve (GP2) champions were able to secure a seat in Formula 1, a correlation of 75%.\n\nOn Friday, drivers had a 45-minute free practice session and a 30-minute qualifying session. The qualifying session decides the grid order for Saturday's race which has a length of 180 kilometres (112 miles).\n\nDuring Saturday's race, each driver has to make a pit stop in which at least two tyres have to be changed.\n\nOn Sunday there is a sprint race of 120 kilometres (75 miles). The grid was decided by the Saturday result with top 8 being reversed, so the driver who finished 8th on Saturday have started from pole position and the winner have started from 8th place.\n\n\n\nWith this points system, the most points anyone can score in one round is 20 by claiming pole position, winning both races with the fastest lap in each race. This feat has only been achieved twice in GP2 racing's short history; by Brazilian Nelson Piquet Jr. in the 9th round of the 2006 season in Hungary and by German Nico Hülkenberg in the 5th round of the 2009 season in Germany.\n\n\nFrom the 2012 season the GP2 series changed its scoring system. Feature races ran with a scoring system similar to the one used in Formula One:\n\nThe top eight finishers in a sprint race received points as follows:\n\nPole position for the feature race will now be worth 4 points, and 2 points will be given for the fastest lap in each race. Therefore, the maximum number of points a driver can score at any round will be 48.\n\nThe GP2 Series car was used by all of the teams, and features a Dallara carbon-fiber monocoque chassis powered by a Mecachrome normally-aspirated fuel-injected V8 engine and Pirelli dry slick and rain treaded tyres. Overall weight is 688 kg including driver.\nThe 2011 specification GP2 Series car has been designed by Dallara Automobili. The 2006 GP2 car featured a biplane rear wing, with the triplane rear wing used in previous seasons only to be used at the Monaco race. The front upper and lower wishbones have been reinforced, as have the front and rear suspension uprights. Currently, Dallara GP2/11 are the current chassis since debut in 2011 and will be used until end of 2017 season. The price of Dallara GP2/11 FIA Formula 2 Championship cars are approximately up to €1.5 million-€2 million per car (including wheels, tyres, wings, steering wheel and other components excluding engine).\nThe 4.0-litre normally-aspirated electronic indirect fuel-injected Mecachrome V8 engine features internal, cartographic and software upgrades designed to improve performance and fuel consumption. The engine produces 612 hp and 500 Nm (380 ft-lb) of torque @ 8000 rpm. FIA Formula 2 Championship Series engines are rev-limited to 10000 rpm and need a rebuild after 4000 to 4500 km. The valve train is a dual overhead camshaft configuration with four valves per cylinder. The Mecachrome V8 engine weight is . The crankshaft is made of alloy steel, with five main bearing caps. The pistons are forged aluminum alloy, while the connecting rods are machined alloy steel. The electronic engine management system is supplied by Magneti Marelli, firing a high-power inductive (coil-controlled) ignition system. The engine lubrication is a dry sump type, cooled by a single water pump.\n\nMecachrome came to the GP2 Series in 2005, and by 2005 was clearly the dominant engine manufacturer. Starting in 2005, they became the only engine manufacturer in the GP2 Series, and continued in that capacity through 2016. Mecachrome also has a mutually beneficial technical relationship with Teos Engineering of Montigny-le-Bretonneux. They will continue working together for on-going research and development, engine maintenance and trackside support for the Mecachrome GP2 V8 racing engine at all GP2 Series venues.\n\nDuring that time, since the GP2 Series had only one engine manufacturer, Mecachrome still focusing on minimizing engine failure and minimizing costs instead of defeating rivals. As such, the engines were moderately de-tuned. The engines proved themselves to be quite durable—there had been no engine failures at all F2 tracks from 2005 to present, which also lowered the number of crashes. Most of the engines, including those used for the Monaco race, are used for multiple races and were intended to last 1,100 miles between rebuilds. The Mecachrome engines were only available via lease arrangement from Mecachrome currently.\n\nMecachrome V8 GP2 engines were crated and shipped to all GP2 teams on a serial-number basis as determined by the sanctioning body (FIA) to ensure equality and fairness in distribution.\n\nSince 2005, Elf exclusively providing the LMS 102 unleaded fuel and also Elf HTX 840 0W-40 lubricants for all GP2 Series cars (except Total Quartz 9000 with ART Grand Prix).\nThe current gearbox has been manufactured by Hewland and features an 8-position barrel with ratchet body and software upgrades as well as a new transverse shafts fixing system designed to facilitate improved gear selection. The GP2 gearbox used a 6-speed semi-automatic configuration with electronically-controlled paddle shifters with reverse operated by a button on the steering wheel.\nO.Z. Racing exclusively supplies wheel rims for all GP2 Series cars since 2005.\nSimilar to the 2011 change for Formula 1, Pirelli is now the sole tyre supplier for the series. The GP2 Series runs the same compounds as F1. The front tyre size are 245/660-R13 and rear tyre size are 325/660-R13.\nBrembo supplies monobloc brake calipers and disc bells, which are exclusive to GP2 Series. Hitco also supplies carbon brake discs and pads for FIA Formula 2 Championship. The brake discs are 278 x 28 mm in size (similar to Formula One).\nThe car also features internal cooling upgrades, a new water radiator, radiator duct, oil/water heat exchanger, modified oil degasser, new oil and water pipes and new heat exchanger fixing brackets.\nSince 2011, XAP Technology exclusively providing the XAP single-seater GP2 Series steering wheel as well as XAP SX steering wheel dash display. The XAP steering wheel features 6 buttons in the front with 5 paddles (DRS, gear shift and clutch) in the back of steering wheel.\nAccording to research and pre-season stability tests, the 2005 model can go 0 to 200 km/h (124 mph) in 6.7 seconds. The car has a top speed of 320 km/h (198 mph) meaning that it is the fastest single seater racing car behind Formula One and IndyCar Series. The 2011 model can go 0 to 200 km/h (124 mph) in 6.6 seconds. The car has a top speed of 332 km/h (208 mph) with the Monza aero configuration.\n\nAt the end of the 2016 Formula One season, 30 out of 174 drivers have raced in Formula One (17.2%).\n\nNotes:\n\nThe 2005 Season was the first of the series, it succeeding the now defunct Formula 3000 championship. Arden International won the last F3000 titles, thus starting as one of the favourites.\n\nThe 2005 season began on April 23, 2005 on the weekend of the San Marino Grand Prix at the Autodromo Enzo e Dino Ferrari in Imola, Italy. In the pre-season test to decide the inaugural season's car numbers, the iSport International and HiTech/Piquet Racing teams showed a competitive edge. The latter team was largely funded by the former Formula One world champion Nelson Piquet in order to aid his son's route to the premier Formula sport.\n\nThe championship lasted 23 rounds, two races occurring a weekend with the exception of a single race in Monaco. It was won by German Nico Rosberg, who was subsequently hired by the WilliamsF1 Team.\n\nIt was also notable for being the only season that GP2 used grooved tyres like F1 cars rather than slicks.\n\nThe 2006 season was the second of the series. After championship holder Nico Rosberg's move to the Williams F1 team, and runner-up Heikki Kovalainen's move to be reserve driver at Renault F1, Nelson Piquet Jr. in the Piquet Sports car was installed as the early title favourite, though the ART Grand Prix cars of Alexandre Prémat and Lewis Hamilton also had fairly short odds, given ART were reigning champions.\n\nFor the first time, the season began on a calendar separate to the 2006 Formula One calendar, starting out at the Circuit de Valencia, in Valencia, Spain on April 8, 2006 with Piquet Jr. the first victor.\n\nPiquet raced into an early lead before Lewis Hamilton came back into the fray. A dominant run by the Briton took him into the championship lead before the balance came back into Piquet Jr.'s favour.\n\nAfter an exciting championship battle lasting 20 races, Hamilton claimed the title in the penultimate race, at the Autodromo Nazionale Monza, in Monza, Italy, and celebrated with a second place in the 21st and final round.\n\nThe 2007 GP2 Series began on 13 April at the Bahrain International Circuit, and completed on 30 September at the Circuit de Valencia (which was the only race that wasn't on the F1 calendar). Eventual champion Timo Glock was a driving force throughout the series but came under stiff competition from Lucas di Grassi in the closing stages- however, with a convincing win at the last race in Valencia, Glock sealed the championship.\n\nThe 2008 GP2 Series featured the same teams as in previous seasons. This was also the first time that the calendar supported all of the F1 races in Europe with a late deal to run at the Valencia Street Circuit. It was the first season to feature a new car design from Dallara, the GP2/08, the only non-F1 car to pass the 2007 FIA crash test in full. In the United Kingdom, the 2008 GP2 Series was exclusively aired on ITV4 from April 2008. It was won by Giorgio Pantano for Racing Engineering, with Bruno Senna finishing distant runner-up.\n\nThe 2009 season began and ended on the Iberian peninsula, with the first race weekend at Circuit de Catalunya (9–10 May) and ending in the stand-alone headline event (i.e. not supporting a corresponding Formula One event) at Portugal's Autódromo Internacional do Algarve (19–20 September). The title was won by German rookie Nico Hülkenberg at the penultimate round of the championship at Monza, the second time the championship had been won before the last race.\n\nThe 2010 season contained ten rounds, all of which were supporting F1 World Championship. The series started in May at Catalunya and concluded at Abu Dhabi in November.\n\nPastor Maldonado won the title in his fourth season in the series. He won a record-breaking six successive feature races mid-season. Sergio Pérez was his closest rival, but the title was sealed already in the penultimate round at Monza.\n\nThe 2011 season contained nine rounds and a final tenth round with no points, all of which were supporting F1 World Championship. The series started in May at Istanbul and concluded at Abu Dhabi in November.\n\nThe championship was won by reigning GP2 Asia champion Romain Grosjean at the penultimate round of the series. Following a three-year cycle, the previous GP2 chassis was replaced by a brand new car, the GP2/11, built by Italian racing car manufacturer Dallara. The series will change tyre supplier from Bridgestone to Pirelli for 2011–13. The 2011 season saw the addition of two new teams to the grid, Carlin and Team AirAsia. Meanwhile, DPR was not selected to continue in the series.\n\nThe 2012 season contained twelve rounds, eleven of which supported the F1 World Championship and one stand alone round in Bahrain. The series started on March 24 in Malaysia and concluded in Singapore on September 23. Davide Valsecchi (DAMS) won the title by 25 points from Arden's Luiz Razia, with Lotus GP's Esteban Gutiérrez third.\n\nFor the 2012 season, Team Lazarus replaced Super Nova Racing using the name \"Venezuela GP Lazarus\". Lotus ART was renamed \"Lotus Grand Prix\", reflecting their increased relationship with title sponsor 'Lotus Cars'.\n\nThe 2013 season contained eleven rounds, all of which supported the F1 World Championship. The series started on March 23 in Malaysia and concluded in Abu Dhabi on November 3.\n\nFabio Leimer won the title driving for Racing Engineering, with a total of 201 points and 3 wins. Sam Bird, driving for Russian Time, finished runner-up.\n\nThe 2014 GP2 Series contained eleven rounds, all of which supported the F1 World Championship. The series started on April 5 in Bahrain and concluded in Abu Dhabi on November 23.\n\nJolyon Palmer won the title in Sochi driving for DAMS. Stoffel Vandoorne, driving for ART Grand Prix, finished runner-up in Abu Dhabi.\n\nThe 2015 season contained eleven rounds, supporting the F1 World Championship and the final round of the World Endurance Championship at the 6 Hours of Bahrain. It started in Bahrain on 18 April and finished in Abu Dhabi on 29 November.\n\nStoffel Vandoorne won the title in Sochi driving for ART Grand Prix. Alexander Rossi, driving for Racing Engineering, finished runner-up.\n\nThe 2016 season contained eleven rounds, supporting the F1 World Championship. It started in Spain on May 14 and finished in Abu Dhabi on November 27.\n\nPierre Gasly won the title driving for Prema Racing (who won the team's championship in their debut season). Antonio Giovinazzi, also driving for Prema, finished runner up.\n\nThe television rights are held by Formula One Management, which also manages the rights to Formula One.\n\nSky Sports F1 broadcast every race live in the UK and Ireland, while Setanta Sports also broadcasts in Ireland.\n\nThe races were also broadcast in the United States on Comcast's NBC Sports Network, while in Brazil it is broadcast by cable TV channel SportTV. In Venezuela MeridianoTV broadcast, and in the rest of Latin America, the races from 2012 are shown on delayed in South Cone and live in North Cone on Fox Sports +.\n\nOther European countries:\nIn Spain, races are broadcast by MarcaTV, Antena 3 and TV3. In Germany, PayTV Channel Sky broadcast all races live, and in Finland Pay-TV-channel MTV3 MAX broadcasts all races and qualifying live. RAI broadcasts only the races.\n\nIn the UK, races were being shown on Setanta Sports until the channel ceased broadcasting in June 2009. Setanta took up coverage of the series from ITV, who had shown GP2 in all four seasons to date (highlights only for 2005–2007, live coverage for 2008). However, by the German GP, Setanta GB had gone into administration so UK viewers could have been left without a GP2 broadcaster, but British Eurosport subsequently picked up the UK rights to GP2 for the next two and a half years. Setanta Ireland continues to operate for the Irish market and retain GP2 rights for that country. In February 2012, it was announced that Sky Sports F1 had secured the broadcasting rights to the GP2 series and will broadcast every race live in the United Kingdom and Ireland. Formula One pundit Will Buxton provided commentary for the UK broadcast until he departed at the end of the 2014 season and was succeeded by Alex Jacques.\n\n"}
{"id": "5071161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5071161", "title": "Grey Gardens (musical)", "text": "Grey Gardens (musical)\n\nGrey Gardens is a musical with book by Doug Wright, music by Scott Frankel, and lyrics by Michael Korie, based on the 1975 documentary of the same title about the lives of Edith Ewing Bouvier Beale (\"Big Edie\") and her daughter Edith Bouvier Beale (\"Little Edie\") by Albert and David Maysles. The Beales were Jacqueline Kennedy's aunt and cousin, respectively. Set at Grey Gardens, the Bouviers' mansion in East Hampton, New York, the musical tracks the progression of the two women's lives from their original status as rich and socially polished aristocrats to their eventual largely isolated existence in a home overrun by cats and cited for repeated health code violations. However, its more central purpose is to untangle the complicated dynamics of their dysfunctional mother/daughter relationship.\n\nThe first act depicts the characters in their heyday and is a speculative take on what their lives might have been like when they were younger, when Little Edie was 24 and Big Edie 47. The second act is set 32 years later in 1973 at the decaying Grey Gardens estate and hews closely to the Maysles Brothers' documentary in its portrayal of them in their later years, when Little Edie is 56 and Big Edie is 79. While the first act is almost entirely fictional (the central event, the engagement between Little Edie and Joseph Kennedy, never happened), the second act takes much of its dialogue and action directly from the film. The same actress who plays Big Edie in the first act plays Little Edie in the second act.\n\nThe musical opened Off-Broadway at Playwrights Horizons on February 10, 2006 and ran through April 30, 2006. Directed by Michael Greif with choreography by Jeff Calhoun, it starred Christine Ebersole, Mary Louise Wilson, and John McMartin. It received mixed reviews, but attracted particularly good reviews for Ebersole and Wilson. It earned five Lucille Lortel Award nominations and twelve Drama Desk Award nominations. \n\nChristine Ebersole received the Obie Award, Drama Desk Award, Outer Critics Circle Award, a Special Citation from the New York Drama Critics' Circle, and the Drama League Award for Performance of the Year (2006) for her dual roles of Edith and Edie Beale in the Off-Broadway production.\n\nThe show opened, with revisions, on Broadway on November 2, 2006 at the Walter Kerr Theatre and closed on July 29, 2007, after 307 performances and 33 previews. The production was nominated for 10 Tony Awards in 2007, winning three, including awards for both Ebersole and Wilson in leading and featured actress categories, respectively. \n\nAccording to an article in \"Playbill\" on November 21, 2007, composer Scott Frankel said there were no plans for a national tour based on the 2006-07 Broadway production, but \"Dramatists Play Service, Inc. is handling the show's licensing to stock, amateur, university and resident theatres. Independent productions, which started playing in those markets in 2008.\"\n\nIn the spring of 2013, a three-month run was mounted in Seattle as a co-production between the 5th Avenue Theatre and ACT Theatre, starring Patti Cohenour and Suzy Hunt. \n\nIn August 2015, a three-week production was held at the Bay Street Theater, Sag Harbor, New York. Directed by Michael Wilson, the cast featured Betty Buckley, Rachel York, Matt Doyle (Joe/Jerry), Simon Jones (Major/Peale), Howard McGillin {George Gould Strong), James Harkness (Brooks Sr./Brooks Jr.), Sarah Hunt (Young Edie), Gracie Beardsley (Lee), and Dakota Quackenbush. Buckley and York star in a production at the Ahmanson Theatre, Los Angeles, California, again directed by Michael Wilson in July and August 2016.\n\nThe Australian premiere was a limited run from November 25 to December 4, 2011, presented by The Production Company at the Arts Centre Melbourne Playhouse. Directed by Roger Hodgman, the cast featured Pamela Rabe and Nancye Hayes. The Australian production was nominated for the Helpmann Award for Best Musical in 2012. \n\nThe Canadian premiere was presented from May 2–19, 2012 by Fighting Chance Productions in Vancouver, BC at the Jericho Arts Centre. The cast featured Cathy Wilmot (Big Edie - Act One/Little Edie - Act Two), Lucas Blaney (Joe Kennedy), Ranae Miller (Little Edie - Act One), Sue Sparlin (Big Edie - Act Two), Jack Rigg (Major Bouvier), Carman J. Price (Gould), Hal Rogers (Brooks), Angela Cotton (Jackie Bouvier) and Emma Cawood (Lee Bouvier) with direction and musical staging by Ryan Mooney and music direction by Caitlin Hayes.\n\nA Japanese production opened on November 7, 2009 at Theater Creation in Tokyo and closed on December 6. The production then toured other Japanese cities, including Osaka and Nagoya.\n\nA Brazilian production opened on March 15, 2013 at the Sala Municipal Baden Powell in Copacabana, Rio de Janeiro, performing 32 times and closing on May 5, 2013. With musical translations, adaptations, and production by Jonas Klabin with additional musical translations by Claudio Botelho, directed by Wolf Maya, musical direction Carlos Bauzys and Daniel Rocha. Starring Soraya Ravenle, Suely Franco, Carol, Puntel, Guilherme Terra, Sandro Christopher, Pierre Baitelli, Jorge Maya, Danilo Timm, Raquel Bonfante and Sofia Viamonte, with Mirna Rubim substituting Suely Franco during the last couple weeks. there were an approximate total 9.000 spectators. \n\nThe Brazilian production was nominated:\nThe production's set design was also selected for exhibit at the Prague Quadrennial 2015, Bia Junqueira was one of the set designer selected to represent Brazil.\n\nThe musical had its UK premiere at the Southwark Playhouse in January, 2016. Directed by Thom Southerland, the cast included Sheila Hancock and Jenna Russell.\n\nA documentary from Independent Lens, \"Grey Gardens: From East Hampton to Broadway\", about the making of the musical, was screened on October 18, 2007, at the Hamptons International Film Festival Long Island, and was later shown on television on PBS stations.\n\nThe original Broadway characters and cast:\n\n≈ denotes new songs written for the Broadway production.\n\nSongs omitted in the Broadway production: \"Toyland,\" \"Body Beautiful Beale,\" \"Being Bouvier,\" \"Better Fall Out of Love,\" \"Tomorrow's Woman,\" \"Peas in a Pod\" (Reprise).\n\nThe Broadway production was received enthusiastically by critics. \"Time Magazine\" named \"Grey Gardens\" the No. 1 best show to come out in 2006. In reviewing the Off-Broadway production, Ben Brantley, reviewing for The New York Times, wrote \"A blend of gentle compassion and acute observation, Ms. Ebersole's performance is one of the most gorgeous ever to grace a musical.\" However, he also noted that the musical \"tilts perilously toward cheap celebrity camp.\" with a \"very long and finally tedious first act.\" Stephen Holden of \"The New York Times\" wrote that the musical \"brings to mind two phrases seldom linked nowadays: 'Broadway musical' and 'artistic integrity'... the songs, with music by Scott Frankel and lyrics by Michael Korie, sustain a level of refined language and psychological detail as elevated as Stephen Sondheim's. The score is a meticulously fashioned piece of musical theater that gains in depth the more you listen to it.\"\n\nThe Off-Broadway cast album was released on August 22, 2006.\n\nThe Original Broadway Cast album was released on March 27, 2007 through PS Classics. It was nominated for a 2008 Grammy Award for Best Musical Show Album.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39971277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39971277", "title": "Iford Arts Festival", "text": "Iford Arts Festival\n\nIford Arts Festival is an annual summer festival of opera and jazz, which takes place at Iford Manor near Bradford on Avon in Wiltshire, England. Operas are produced by Iford Festival Opera. It also features the Iford Jazz Proms, as well as other concerts and performances.\n\nThe festival is set in the manor's Italian gardens, which were designed by Harold Peto. Opera productions are small-scale. The operas take place in the Cloisters, an Italianate garden feature built by Peto in 1914, which is now a grade II* listed building. Open to the sky, its central courtyard is surrounded by a cloister arcade, providing an intimate theatre in the round for an audience of just 90. Other concerts use both the Cloisters and the Casita, a pavilion built by Peto around 1910 using 13th-century marble columns from Verona.\n\nThe festival's founder was Judy Eglington, the artistic director of Iford Arts. Annual concerts in the cloister started in the 1980s; the first opera was given in 1993, and the first fully staged opera in 1995. Touring opera companies which have been particularly associated with the festival include Opera della Luna, Opera Project, and Early Opera Company.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18933798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18933798", "title": "International Robotic Urology Symposium", "text": "International Robotic Urology Symposium\n\nHosted by the Detroit-based Vattikuti Urology Institute, the International Robotic Urology Symposium (IRUS) is a semi-annual conference featuring the latest in robotic urological surgery presented through intensive courses and leading robotic surgeons. The symposium attracts surgeons, nurses, operating room coordinators, hospital administrators, and residents from around the world. Prominent robotic surgeon Dr. Mani Menon is the event's symposium director. 2009 IRUS will be held at the Bellagio Hotel in Las Vegas from January 12-January 14, 2009.\n\nThe Vattikuti Urology Institute (VUI), at the Henry Ford Hospital in Detroit, Michigan played a prominent role in the development of robotic surgery as treatment for prostate cancer and, more recently, as a treatment for renal disease, stone disease, and adrenal disease. The institute hosted the 2004 International Robotic Urology Symposium and the 2006 International Robotic Urology Symposium at the Ritz-Carlton in Dearborn, Michigan.\n\nReflecting the expansion of the role of robotic surgery, 2009 IRUS will for the first time include a section for gynecologic and female urological surgery. Other session offerings include OR management for robotic surgery, economics for robotic programs, robotic pediatric urology, robotic kidney surgery, robotic bladder surgery, and robotic prostate surgery. Delegates can also observe 3 live surgeries and 3D surgical video sessions.\n\nThe growing prominence of the Vattikuti Urology Institute has allowed 2009 IRUS to host more than 50 faculty members including many of the world's prominent robotic surgeons and two former presidents of the American Urological Association. The event is sponsored by the Endourological Society, the Society of Urologic Oncology, and Intuitive Surgical. Intuitive Surgical, one of America's fastest growing companies, has featured the event on its homepage.\n\nIn consideration of the growing demand amongst surgeons for in-depth learning of techniques, 2009 IRUS also hosts two post conference events (Jan 15th-16th) at Intuitive Surgical in Sunnyvale, CA (live tissue experience) and Henry Ford Hospital in Detroit, MI (spectrum of urological surgery).\n\n"}
{"id": "11608620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11608620", "title": "Islam and domestic violence", "text": "Islam and domestic violence\n\nThe relationship between Islam and domestic violence is disputed. Even among Muslims, the uses and interpretations of sharia, the moral code and religious law of Islam, lack consensus.\n\nConservative interpretations of Surah An-Nisa, 34 in the Qur'an regarding marital relationships find that hitting a woman is allowed. Other interpretations of the verse claim it does not support hitting a woman, but separating from her. Variations in interpretation are due to different schools of Islamic jurisprudence, histories and politics of religious institutions, conversions, reforms, and education.\n\nDomestic violence among the Muslim community is considered a complicated human rights issue due to varying legal remedies for women by the nations in which they live, the extent to which they have support or opportunities to divorce their husbands, cultural stigma to hide evidence of abuse, and inability to have abuse recognized by police or the judicial system in some Muslim nations.\n\nAccording to the Merriam-Webster dictionary definition, domestic violence is: \"the inflicting of physical injury by one family or household member on another; also: a repeated or habitual pattern of such behavior.\"\n\nCoomaraswamy defines domestic violence as \"violence that occurs within the private sphere, generally between individuals who are related through intimacy, blood or law…[It is] nearly always a gender-specific crime, perpetrated by men against women.\" It used is as a strong form of control and oppression.\n\nKofi Annan, former Secretary-General of the United Nations, declared in a 2006 report posted on the United Nations Development Fund for Women (UNIFEM) website that:Violence against women and girls is a problem of pandemic proportions. At least one out of every three women around the world has been beaten, coerced into sex, or otherwise abused in her lifetime with the abuser usually someone known to her.\n\nSurah An-Nisa, 34-35 passage on the social interaction between husbands and wives defines the husband and wife relationship in Islam, with interpretation subject to debate among Muslim scholars (or 'jurists'). Quran 4:34 reads,\nVarious translations of the above passage read 'strike them' or 'beat them' or 'scourge them', depending on the translator.\n\nThe above Hadith is graded Sahih by Darussalam.\n\nThe above Hadith ( and )is da'if (weak) according to Al-Albani(1914-1999).\n\nHajjar LisA claims Shari'a law encourages \"domestic violence\" against women, when a husband suspects \"nushuz\" (disobedience, disloyalty, rebellion, ill conduct) in his wife. Other scholars claim wife beating, for \"nashizah\", is not consistent with modern perspectives of Qur'an. Some conservative translations find that Muslim husbands are permitted to act what is known in Arabic as Idribuhunna with the use of \"light force,\" and sometimes as much as to strike, hit, chastise, or beat.\n\nIn some exegesis such as those of Ibn Kathir(1300-1373AD) and Muhammad ibn Jarir al-Tabari(839-923AD), the actions prescribed in Surah 4:34 above, are to be taken in sequence: the husband is to admonish the wife, after which (if his previous correction was unsuccessful) he may remain separate from her, after which (if his previous correction was still unsuccessful) he may hit her\n\nA translated passage by Taqi-ud-Din al-Hilali and Muhsin Khan in 2007 defines men as the protectors, guardians and maintainers of women, because Allah has made the one of them to excel the other, and because they spend (to support them) from their means. Upon seeing ill-conduct (i.e. disobedience, rebellion, nashuz in Arabic) by his wife, a man may admonish them (first), (next), refuse to share their beds, (and last) beat them (lightly, if it is useful), but if they return to obedience, seek not against them means.\n\nSome Islamic scholars and commentators have emphasized that hitting, even where permitted, are not to be harsh or some even contend that they should be \"more or less symbolic.\" According to Abdullah Yusuf Ali and Ibn Kathir, the consensus of Islamic scholars is that the above verse describes a light beating. Abu Shaqqa refers to the edict of Hanafi scholar al-Jassas (d. 981) who notes that the reprimand should be \"A non-violent blow with \"siwak\" [a small stick used to clean the teeth] or similar. This means that to hit with any other means is legally Islamically forbidden.\"\n\nIndicating the subjective nature of the translations, particularly regarding domestic abuse, Ahmed Ali's English translation of the word \"idribu\" is \"to forsake, avoid, or leave.\" His English translation of verse 4:34 is:\n…As for women you feel are averse, talk to them cursively; then leave them alone in bed (without molesting them), and go to bed with them (when they are willing). However, in his native Urdu translation of verse 4:34, he translates \"idribuhunna\" as \"beat them.\"\n\nAs Laleh Bakhtiar found out by reading Edward William Lane's Arabic-English Lexicon, a 3,064-page volume from the 19th century, among the six pages of definitions for \"daraba\" one definition was \"to go away.\" This translation is further supported by the fact that the word \"darabtum\", which means to \"go abroad\" in the sake of Allah, is used in the same Surah (in 4:94) and is derived from\nthe same root word (\"daraba\") as \"idribuhunna\" in 4:34. This translation is negated however by the fact that most definitions of \"daraba\" in Edward William Lane's Arabic-English Lexicon are related to physical beating and that when the root word \"daraba\" and its derivatives are used in the Qur'an in relation to humans or their body parts, it exclusively means physically beating or striking them (e.g. in Qur'an 2:7337:93, 8:12, 8:50, 47:4 and 47:27).\n\nIn deference to Surah 4:34, many nations with Shari'a law have refused to consider or prosecute cases of \"domestic abuse.\" In 2010, the highest court of United Arab Emirates (Federal Supreme Court) considered a lower court's ruling, and upheld a husband's right to \"chastise\" his wife and children physically. Article 53 of the United Arab Emirates' penal code acknowledges the right of a \"chastisement by a husband to his wife and the chastisement of minor children\" so long as the assault does not exceed the limits prescribed by Shari'a. In Lebanon, KAFA, an organization campaigning against violence and the exploitation of women, alleges that as many as three-quarters of all Lebanese females have suffered physically at the hands of husbands or male relatives at some point in their lives. An effort has been underway to remove domestic violence cases from Shari'a driven religious courts to civil penal code driven courts. Social workers claim failure of religious courts in addressing numerous instances of domestic abuse in Syria, Pakistan, Egypt, Palestine, Morocco, Iran, Yemen and Saudi Arabia. In 2013 Saudi Arabia approved a new law on domestic violence, which sets penalties for all types of sexual and physical abuse, in the workplace and at home. Penalties can be up to a year in prison and a fine up to 13,000 dollars. The law also provides shelter for the victims of domestic violence.\n\nScholars and commentators have stated that Muhammad directed men not to hit their wives' faces, not to beat their wives in such a way as would leave marks on their body, and not to beat their wives as to cause pain (\"ghayr mubarrih\"). Scholars too have stipulated against beating or disfigurement, with others such as the Syrian jurist Ibn Abidin prescribing \"ta'zir\" punishments against abusive husbands.\nIn a certain hadidth, Muhammad discouraged beating one's wife severely:\n\nBahz bin Hakim reported on the authority of his father from his grandfather (Mu'awiyah ibn Haydah) as saying:\n\"I said: Messenger of Allah, how should we approach our wives and how should we leave them? He replied: Approach your tilth when or how you will, give her (your wife) food when you take food, clothe when you clothe yourself, do not revile her face, and do not beat her.\" The same hadith has been narrated with slightly different wording. In other versions of this hadith, only beating the face is discouraged.\n\nSome jurists argue that even when beating is acceptable under the Quran, it is still discouraged. Ibn Kathir in concluding his exegesis exhorts men to not beat their wives, quoting a hadith from Muhammad: \"Do not hit God's servants\" (here referring to women). The narration continues, stating that some while after the edict, \"Umar complained to the Messenger of God that many women turned against their husbands. Muhammad gave his permission that the men could hit their wives in cases of rebelliousness. The women then turned to the wives of the Prophet and complained about their husbands. The Prophet said: 'Many women have turned to my family complaining about their husbands. Verily, these men are not among the best of you.\"\n\nJonathan A.C. Brown throws light on the general trend when it comes to the verse:\n\nThe vast majority of the ulama across the Sunni schools of law inherited the Prophet's unease over domestic violence and placed further restrictions on the evident meaning of the 'Wife Beating Verse'. A leading Meccan scholar from the second generation of Muslims, Ata' bin Abi Rabah, counseled a husband not to beat his wife even if she ignored him but rather to express his anger in some other way. Darimi, a teacher of both Tirmidhi and Muslim bin Hajjaj as well as a leading early scholar in Iran, collected all the Hadiths showing Muhammad's disapproval of beating in a chapter entitled 'The Prohibition on Striking Women'. A thirteenth-century scholar from Granada, Ibn Faras, notes that one camp of ulama had staked out a stance forbidding striking a wife altogether, declaring it contrary to the Prophet's example and denying the authenticity of any Hadiths that seemed to permit beating. Even Ibn Hajar, the pillar of late medieval Sunni Hadith scholarship, concludes that, contrary to what seems to be an explicit command in the Qur'an, the Hadiths of the Prophet leave no doubt that striking one's wife to discipline her actually falls under the Shariah ruling of 'strongly disliked' or 'disliked verging on prohibited'.\n\nDomestic violence is considered by many to be a problem in Muslim-majority cultures, but because women hide their bruises and don't report domestic abuse to authorities, the incidence in many Muslim-majority countries is uncertain, but believed to be great by Muslim feminists. According to Pamela K. Taylor, co-founder of Muslims for Progressive Values, such violence is not part of the religion, but rather more of a cultural aspect. In the academic publication \"Honour, Violence, Women and Islam\" edited by Mohammad Mazher Idriss and Tahir Abbas, it is said that there is no authority in the Quran for the type of regular and frequent acts of violence that women experience from their abusive husbands. Furthermore, the actions of many Muslim husbands lack the expected level of control in two elements from the verse, admonishment and separation. The separation dictates not only the physical separation, but also abstinence from marital sex.\n\nAccording to Ahmad Shafaat, an Islamic scholar, \"If the husband beats a wife without respecting the limits set down by the Qur'an and Hadith, then she can take him to court and if ruled in favor has the right to apply the law of retaliation and beat the husband as he beat her.\" According to \"Honour, Violence, Women and Islam\", and Islamic scholar Dr. Muhammad Sharif Chaudhry, Muhammad condemns violence against women, as he says: \"How loathsome (Ajeeb) it is that one of you should hit his wife as a slave is hit, and then sleep with her at the end of the day.\" However, laws against domestic violence, as well as whether these laws are enforced, vary throughout the Muslim world.\n\nSome women want to fight the abuses they face as Muslims; these women want \"to retain the communal extended family aspects of traditional society, while eliminating its worst abuses, by seeking easy ability to divorce men for abuse and forced marriages.\"\n\nIn Malaysia, the largest government-run hospital implemented a program to intervene in cases where domestic violence seems possible. The woman is brought to a room to meet with a counselor who works with the patient to determine if the woman is in danger and should be transferred to a shelter for safety. If the woman does not wish to go to the shelter, she is encouraged to see a social worker and file a police report. If the injury is very serious, investigations begin immediately.\n\nThough some Muslim scholars, such as Ahmad Shafaat, contend that Islam permits women to be divorced in cases of domestic violence. divorce may be unavailable to women as a practical or legal matter.\n\nThe Quran states:\n(2:231) And when you have divorced women and they have fulfilled the term of their prescribed period, either take them back on reasonable basis or set them free on reasonable basis. But do not take them back to hurt them, and whoever does that, then he has wronged himself. And treat not the Verses of Allah as a jest, but remember Allah's Favours on you, and that which He has sent down to you of the Book and Al-Hikmah [the Prophet's Sunnah, legal ways, Islamic jurisprudence] whereby He instructs you. And fear Allah, and know that Allah is All-Aware of everything.\n\nAlthough Islam permits women to divorce for domestic violence, they are subject to the laws of their nation which might make it quite difficult for a woman to obtain a divorce.\n\nMost women's rights activists concede that while divorce can provide potential relief, it does not constitute an adequate protection or even an option for many women, with discouraging factors such as lack of resources or support to establish alternative domestic arrangements and social expectations and pressures.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30330833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30330833", "title": "José Luis Jiménez", "text": "José Luis Jiménez\n\nJosé Luis Jiménez Marín (born 8 August 1983 in Curanilahue, Bío-Bío Region) is a professional Chilean footballer who currently plays as a Forward for Ñublense.\n\nJiménez played at Universidad de Chile youth ranks until 2003, but he left the team because he was not in the coach's plans. In 2003, he arrived to Deportes Talcahuano of the Chilean Primera B. In the next season, he arrived to Trasandino de Los Andes of the . At the team of Los Andes, Jiménez was the top-scorer of the Tercera División with 26 goals.\n\nDuring the summer of 2005, Jiménez was transferred to Santiago Wanderers of the Primera División Chilena, because of his good performance in Tercera División. In the first season, Jiménez played very few matches and at times was not in the plans of coach Carlos González, but because the departure of González, the new coach Mario Soto had his sights set on Jiménez. In 2007, Wanderers was relegated to Primera B and Jiménez canceled his contract with the club, having to pay 15 million pesos. He then signed with C.D. Universidad de Concepción for a one-year deal in January 2008.\n\nIn the first season of Jiménez in the club, he scored 2 goals in 8 games. In January 2009, Jiménez won his first professional title, the Copa Chile 2008–09.\n\nIn 2009, he was loaned to his former club Santiago Wanderers for a six-month deal. With Wanderers the player achieved the promotion to Primera División Chilena. Lengthening his loan for one year. However, in December 2011, Jiménez return to Universidad de Concepción.\nIn 2013, Jiménez was sent off for grabbing a dog that wandered onto the pitch by the neck and throwing it into a metal fence.\n\nUniversidad de Concepción\n\n"}
{"id": "41765562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41765562", "title": "LGBT rights protests surrounding the 2014 Winter Olympics", "text": "LGBT rights protests surrounding the 2014 Winter Olympics\n\nDuring the lead-up to the 2014 Winter Olympics, protests and campaigns arose surrounding the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) people in Russia.\n\nConcerns for LGBT athletes and supporters during the Games began as early as March 2012, when a Russian judge blocked the establishment of a Pride House in Sochi, ruling that \"propaganda of non-traditional sexual relationships\" would \"undermine the security of Russian society\", and that it conflicted with public morality and the country's policies \"in the area of family motherhood and childhood protection.\" The majority of protests, however, centred on the passing of a law in June 2013, which banned the distribution of \"propaganda of non-traditional sexual relationships\" among minors. The propaganda law had been characterized by the Western media and other critics as a ban on \"gay propaganda\", arguing that it was broad enough to ban any public display of LGBT symbols and suppress LGBT culture. The law itself was also considered to have caused an increase in homophobic violence, and an increase in the arrest of pro-LGBT protesters.\n\nThe implications of the law on the then-upcoming Winter Olympics were a major concern among athletes and the Western media, as the Olympic Charter contains language explicitly denouncing all forms of discrimination. Early international pressure was leveraged to compel the International Olympic Committee (IOC) to move the Olympics to another country, as well as pressure on Olympic sponsors to take a stand for LGBT equality. In tandem, calls to boycott and protest the Olympics before, during, and after the games also went out from various organizations and groups, and a number of Olympic athletes came out as a symbolic protest of the law. Prior to the Games, similar pressure was placed on major Olympic sponsors, and several non-sponsors also made public statements in support of LGBT rights. Several national politicians declined to attend the Games, which some Western media outlets attributed as connected to the legislation, while others stated that few leaders normally attend the Winter Games as it is not a \"must attend\" event.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33111732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33111732", "title": "Lighthouse and naval vessel urban legend", "text": "Lighthouse and naval vessel urban legend\n\nThe lighthouse and naval vessel urban legend describes an encounter between a large naval ship and what at first appears to be another vessel, with which the ship is on a collision course. The naval vessel, usually identified as of the United States Navy and generally described as a battleship or aircraft carrier, requests that the other ship change course. The other party (generally identified as Canadian or often Irish and occasionally Spanish) responds that the naval vessel should change course, whereupon the captain of the naval vessel reiterates the demand, identifying himself and the ship he commands and sometimes making threats. This elicits a response worded as \"I'm a lighthouse. Your call\" (or similarly), a punchline which has become shorthand for the entire anecdote.\n\nIt has circulated on the Internet and elsewhere in particular since a 1995 iteration that was represented as an actual transcript of such a communication released by the office of the U.S. Chief of Naval Operations. There appears to be no evidence that the event actually took place, and the account is implausible for several reasons. It is thus considered an urban legend, a variation on a joke that dates to at least the 1930s, sometimes referred to as \"the lighthouse vs. the carrier\" or \"the lighthouse vs. the battleship\". The U.S. Navy has a webpage debunking it, although this did not stop the former U.S. Director of National Intelligence Mike McConnell using it as a joke in a 2008 speech. Other speakers have often used it simply as a parable teaching the dangers of inflexibility and self-importance, or the need for situation awareness. In 2004 a Swedish company dramatized it in an award-winning television advertisement.\n\nA commonly circulated version goes thus:\n\nOther vessels sometimes named in the transcript include the carriers \"Enterprise\", \"Coral Sea\" and \"Nimitz\", and the \"Missouri\", a battleship. The location of the exchange has also sometimes been claimed to be Puget Sound, or off the coast of North Carolina, some other times the lighthouse is located at Cape Finisterre (Spain). (The Spanish version expands the joke by having the lighthouse keeper respond to the aircraft carrier's inventory of the fleet by saying he's accompanied by \"our dog, our food, two beers, and a canary that's currently asleep.\") Some versions relocate it to the Irish or Scottish coasts; in the former case the ship is sometimes identified as British, with the conversation taking place off the coast of Kerry in 1998. There is sometimes an additional line of dialogue where the lighthouse keeper tells the ship captain he is a Seaman First Class before the final exchange. The prefatory information sometimes notes it was released in response to a request under the Freedom of Information Act, and/or names Jeremy Boorda, the incumbent Chief of Naval Operations on the stated date.\n\n\"The Virginian-Pilot\", the daily newspaper in Norfolk, Virginia, a city with a large naval presence, investigated the story after it had begun circulating extensively on and off the Internet in 1995. A spokesman for the Atlantic Fleet called it \"a totally bogus story\". Boorda's office said it had not released any such transcript on the date in question. And not only was the story an old one, the ships commonly named in it were mostly either out of service by 1995 (the \"Coral Sea\", in fact, had been scrapped two years before) or not aircraft carriers.\n\nOther sources the paper consulted found more flaws with the story. A spokesman for the Coast Guard, which operates all American lighthouses, said that they had all long since been automated, so there would have been no one in one to talk to a ship, if the incident had taken place in U.S. waters. He speculated that it had been circulated by members of the Coast Guard to make fun of the Navy.\n\nFour years later, in response to a report that a consultant continued to tell the story at speeches as if it were a true occurrence, \"Fast Company\" talked to Wayne Wheeler, a former Coast Guardsman who was then head of an enthusiasts' group called the U.S. Lighthouse Society. He confirmed that it was an old story, and that in his experience with lighthouses was highly unlikely:\nAn actual Canadian lighthouse keeper, Jim Abram of British Columbia, agreed. \"I've been lighthouse keeping for 21 years,\" he told the magazine, \"and no one's ever thought that I was in anything but a lighthouse.\"\n\nThe Military Officers Association of America (MOAA) calls it \"easily believable if you are not familiar with how the Navy operates or simple things such as GPS.\" In addition to the historical inaccuracies with most of the ships named, the organization notes on its blog the extreme improbability that an aircraft carrier's crew would not realize they were off the coast of a landmass such as Newfoundland. The MOAA claims to receive it in forwarded email an average of three times a day. \"[After] fifty times the only interesting part about it is to see which details have been changed.\"\n\nThe earliest known version of the joke appeared in a single-panel cartoon, reproduced from the London tabloid weekly \"The Humorist\" by the Canadian newspaper \"The Drumheller Review\" in 1931. It showed two men standing by their rails, shouting through megaphones:\n\n\"Skipper: Where are you going with your blinking ship? / The Other: \"This isn't a blinking ship. It's a lighthouse!\"\"\n\nIn August of 1934, the London weekly \"Answers\", founded by Alfred Harmsworth, expanded the cartoon into a humorous anecdote, which was reprinted on both sides of the Atlantic. This version read:\n\nVariants appeared in humor books and periodicals over the next several decades. In 1943, Raphael Tuck & Sons issued a postcard version, with an illustration of the prow of an ocean liner and passing a uniformed man at the rail of a similar object: \n\"Where the ell are you going on your perishin' ship? / This ain't no ship, it's a lighthouse!\"\n\nSteven Covey told his own version in his 1989 bestseller \"The Seven Habits of Highly Effective People\", and Covey in turn cited an issue of \"Proceedings\" published two years earlier. Isaac Asimov included it in a 1992 humor anthology.\n\nSince 1995, the story continues to be told, albeit with some awareness that it is probably fictional. In 2004 Silva compass, a Swedish maker of marine navigational equipment, dramatized it in a television ad called \"The Captain\". Its version was set in the Irish Sea, with the ship called the USS \"Montana\" and an Irish lighthouse keeper. The advertisement, filmed in English with Swedish subtitles, won a Bronze Lion at that year's Cannes Lions International Advertising Festival.\n\nFour years later, in 2008, retired Admiral Mike McConnell, then Director of National Intelligence, used the anecdote at the beginning of a speech at Johns Hopkins University. He insisted it was a true story. \"I was in the signals intelligence business where you listen to the people talk and so on\" he told his listeners beforehand. \"This is true. It's an actual recording.\" When he was later questioned on this, a spokesman said those statements were meant merely to set the audience up. \"It's a technique—comedians use it all the time to get the audience to buy in\".\n\nMost commentators who have used it in speeches or books point to it as Mikkelson does, \"a lesson in the unimportance of self-importance\". Felix Dennis, in whose retelling the story, represented as true, takes place off the coast of British Columbia, calls it his \"favorite story about the 'infallibility' of power\". He comments:\nOthers, particularly those writing about management for business audiences, see it as demonstrating the need for flexibility. Barry Maher calls the intractability of some listeners the \"Abraham Lincoln\" Syndrome after the ship named in his version of the anecdote, which he also represents as true. \"When the person you're dealing with refuses to let you go where you want to go, divert your course\", he advises salespeople, echoing the language in the story. \"Smashing into lighthouses is not a successful navigational strategy—no matter how pushy those lighthouses might be.\" Within a marital context, Gary Smalley uses it to advise husbands trying to reconcile with their wives that \"like the navy captain's attempts to manipulate the lighthouse, your attempts to control the situation could cause your wife to become an immovable rock and resent you more deeply\".\n\nAnother exegesis of the story is the importance of situational awareness. Christian media consultant Phil Cooke tells the story, conceding that it's fictional, and uses it to demonstrate the importance of the research he reads, and knowing one's audience in particular. \"We're blind unless we know who we're talking to.\" \"[W]hile it is [the captain']s ship, it's most definitely not his ocean\" writes Russ Linden, a columnist at \"Governing\", of the lesson offered.\n\nSome speakers think the anecdote is an overused cliché. Alan Stevens, president of the Global Speakers Federation, noted that Covey was still using it in speeches in 2010, and reported that the same week he heard him use it a client emailed him that two speakers at a political event she attended had used it. He tells those giving speeches to avoid not only the lighthouse story, but the boiling frog story and the story about a young boy throwing beached starfish back into the sea. \"They may have happened once, but they won't have happened to the storyteller. What's worse, they are used so often, they have lost their impact.\" They should instead follow his example and tell stories of things that actually happened to them or that they did themselves.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52967007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52967007", "title": "List of 2017 Women's March locations", "text": "List of 2017 Women's March locations\n\nThe 2017 Women's March was a series of political rallies that took place in cities around the world on January 21, 2017, with the goals of: protesting against Donald J. Trump's positions and Presidency; promoting women's rights, immigration reform, climate science, and health care reform; countering religious discrimination, violence against women, and LGBTQ abuse; and addressing racial inequities (e.g. Black Lives Matter), workers' issues, and environmental issues.\n\nListed below are 680 marches in the U.S. in support of the 2017 Women's March.\n\nListed below are 137 marches outside the United States in support of the 2017 Women's March.\n"}
{"id": "50558359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50558359", "title": "Looking for America Tour", "text": "Looking for America Tour\n\nThe Looking for America Tour was a concert tour by American alternative rock bands Switchfoot and Relient K in support of their albums \"Where the Light Shines Through\" and \"Air for Free\". The co-headlining tour spanned 44 dates across the United States from September through November 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "6730696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6730696", "title": "Melodifestivalen 1988", "text": "Melodifestivalen 1988\n\nMelodifestivalen 1988 was the selection for the 28th song to represent Sweden at the Eurovision Song Contest. It was the 27th time that this system of picking a song had been used. 1,100 songs were submitted to SVT for the competition. The final was broadcast on TV2 and was not broadcast on radio. The show was watched by 4,464,000 people.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21228845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21228845", "title": "Messe Berlin", "text": "Messe Berlin\n\nMesse Berlin (\"\") are exhibition grounds in the Charlottenburg-Wilmersdorf precinct of Berlin, Germany, at Masurenallee opposite the Haus des Rundfunks. Since 2011, they have officially been known as \"Berlin ExpoCenter City\" and operated by the Messe Berlin GmbH company.\n\nThe premises, built in 1936-37, comprise twenty-six halls covering including Funkturm Berlin. The halls are connected via a bridge to the Internationales Congress Centrum Berlin, which closed in 2014 until further notice. To the south is the CityCube Berlin, an exhibition and conference hall that opened in 2014, built on the lands of the former Deutschlandhalle arena, which has replaced the functions of the ICC.\n\nImportant trade fairs held here include Internationale Grüne Woche Berlin (Green Week), Internationale Funkausstellung Berlin (IFA), Internationale Tourismus-Börse (ITB), Youth fair YOU, Venus Berlin and InnoTrans.\n\n"}
{"id": "12387916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12387916", "title": "Milan Furniture Fair", "text": "Milan Furniture Fair\n\nThe Milan Furniture Fair () is a furniture fair held annually in Milan. It is the largest trade fair of its kind in the world. The exhibition showcases the latest in furniture and design from countries around the world. \nIt is considered a leading venue for the display of new products by designers of furniture, lighting and other home furnishings. The show, also known as \"Salone\", \"Milano Salone\" and \"Milan Design Week,\" is held every year, usually in April, in the FieraMilano complex in the Milan metropolitan area town of Rho.\n\nThe Salone Internazionale del Mobile di Milano was launched in 1961, with the original focus being Italian furniture. The original sponsors were furniture manufacturers from the Federelegno-Arredo trade association. The trade show grew in size over the years, allowing many of the 13,000 companies which comprised the global furniture industry to showcase their wares in a single event.\n\nThe current show occupies an area of nearly , and includes 2,500 companies, along with 700 young designers at the Salone Satellite, a secondary exhibit. The show's annual visitation numbers 270,000, with attendees from over 150 countries worldwide. The show is now organized and operated by Cosmit S.p.A., a trade show corporation and a member of the ICSID (International Council of Societies of Industrial Design) and ADI (Association for Industrial Design). Interior design around the world gathers at Milan in April every year at Milan Design Week commonly known as Salone Internazionale del Mobile covered online at designers such as designerzcentral.\n\nIn 2011, there were 2,720 exhibitors at the official fair, compared to 2,499 in 2010. New lighting technologies at the show included the Flos 2620 LED chandelier with 2,620 LEDs in what appeared to be random rings of light arranged to create the illusion of movement. The standpoint piece for Arco, a 106-year-old Dutch company, was the wooden furniture produced by the Israeli designer Shay Alkalay. Of the student shows, the Dutch design school Design Academy Eindhoven took first place, followed by Israel's Bezalel Academy of Art and Design. Also, some early examples of the combination of sustainability and design were showcased, which eventually resulted in a British entrepreneurial initiative a few years later, pioneer of the upcoming sustainable design revolution.\n\nIn year 2018, the 57th edition of the Salone del Mobile.Milano, there were 434,509 visitors in 6 days from 188 different countries. To compare the year 2016 and 2017, it has increased 17% and 26%. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "53492375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53492375", "title": "Mogul (film)", "text": "Mogul (film)\n\nMogul is an upcoming 2019 Indian biographical film. It is produced by Bhushan Kumar of T-Series, and follows the life of the mogul Gulshan Kumar who was founder of the T-Series music label (Super Cassettes Industries Ltd.), and a Bollywood film producer. The film is set to release in Christmas 2019. The film initially starred Aamir Khan as Kumar. In October 2018, amid molestation allegations against Subhash Kapoor, Aamir Khan and Kiran Rao who were the co-producers of the film decided to quit the project. Producer Bhushan Kumar then dropped Kapoor from the project.\n\n"}
{"id": "45554350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45554350", "title": "Music Tech Fest", "text": "Music Tech Fest\n\nMusic Tech Fest (MTF) is a three-day arts festival and creative space where participants share and \"develop new formats of musical performance and expression.\" It is billed as the 'festival of music ideas'.\n\nMTF presents technological innovations and artistic experimentation, performance, new inventions, commercial applications, and academic research.\n\nMusic Tech Fest events are streamed live online, and videos of individual presentations are made available on YouTube.\n\nThe festival runs a 24-hour weekend hackathon and an academic symposium known as the 'afterparty' on the Monday following the weekend's event. At the Boston afterparty, participants collaborated on the composition of a \"Manifesto for the Future of Music Technology Research\".\n\nMusic Tech Fest began as result of the Roadmap for Music Information Research (MIReS), a European FP7 project run by seven European research centers: Music Technology Group at the Universitat Pompeu Fabra in Barcelona; Stromatolite; OFAI, Austrian Research Institute for Artificial Intelligence, Vienna, Austria; INESCP, Instituto de Engenharia de Sistemas e Computadores, Porto, Portugal; IRCAM at the Centre Pompidou in Paris; Centre for Digital Music (C4DM), Queen Mary, University of London, UK; and Barcelona Music and Audio Technology (BMAT), Barcelona, Spain.\n\nThe project's Scientific Director Michela Magas of Stromatolite launched the first Music Tech Fest event in London 2012 as a way to bring academics and practitioners together. The first festival included contributions from EMI, BBC, Spotify, Soundcloud and Shazam as well as academic researchers, makers, developers and artists. MTF London 2012 featured 54 performers and presenters, 70 hackers and 70 creatives.\n\nIn May 2013 the festival ran again in London with the additional involvement of all of the major record labels. In September of that year, Professor Andrew Dubber from Birmingham City University joined as festival director. In 2014, the festival went on tour with events in Wellington, Boston, London, Berlin and Paris. In 2015 festival organisers scheduled larger regional events, rather than focusing on individual cities: MTF Scandinavia in Umeå and MTF Central Europe in Ljubljana.\n\nStarting with 2015, the Music Tech Fest is supported by the EU Horizon 2020 project \"MusicBricks\" which aims at fostering creative development of new ideas around music technology and supporting pilots which lead to market prototypes. This opens the pathway to reach a wider community of creative SME innovators.\n\nMusic Tech Fest supports the growing hack culture, and promotes it as an important source of creativity. The festival holds its own hackathon at each festival, MTF Hack Camp, which runs for 24 hours from Saturday afternoon to Sunday. Like Music Hack Day events, the MTF hack camp focuses on music-related hack challenges, but with a particular focus on performance with tangible objects, physical concepts and new integrations between software and hardware. There are competitions held at each MTF hack camp where individuals and groups work in response to particular challenges that reflect the themes of each festival. MTF hack camp challenges have engaged with ideas of accessibility (London 2014), fashion and wearables (Paris 2014), and creative spaces (Berlin 2014).\n\nThe festivals in London and Umeå also involve a Kids Hack which Andrew Dubber discussed in an interview for WebTVspot as an 'opportunity for families and young people to get involved'. The MTF website and YouTube pages show performances from the Kids Hack, of participants presenting simple gestural controllers and instruments. Some of the older 'hackers' showed some more complex projects including a remote controlled Tricopter with a camera which was connected to some video goggles to navigate and film the Tricopters flight.\n\nContributors to the festival have included: IRCAM, The London Symphony Orchestra, Soundcloud, Mixcloud, The BBC, EMI, RCA Records, Shazam, Last.fm, Ableton, Native Instruments, Izotope, FXpansion, RS Components, RjDj, WIRED, MTV, Microsoft Research, Cisco, Stephen Fry/Penguin, EU Commission, DMIC, British Council, Sound and Music, MTG, Fraunhofer Society, BCU, MIT Media Lab, Berklee College of Music, McGill, Goldsmiths, Royal College of Art, Ninja Tune, Warp, The Echo Nest, MusicBrainz, Reactable, Jamie Cullum, Tim Exile, Leafcutter John.\n\n\nMTF Scandinavia took place in Umeå Sweden from the 29–31 May 2015. The festival included presentations and performances from Jon Eades from Abbey Road Red, Abbey Road's new technology and innovation incubator, electronic artist Scanner, Robin Rimbaud and founder of English electronic group 808 State, Graham Massey.\n\nThe 24hr Hack Camp had four hack challenges of which there were seven winning teams. Each challenge reflected the values and ideas spread by MTF; the 'Music Things for Music Ecosystems' and 'The Sound Objects in Smart Homes' challenge connected with ideas of collaboration and the Internet of Things, IoT. The Cymatics Challenge aimed to explore the relationships between sonic and visual art through this interdisciplinary medium. The final challenge from MTF Scandinavia was the 'Music as Communication' which focused on music tools that were communicative and accessible. Four winning teams used the #MusicBricks technologies which, led to the funding and incubation of their projects to develop them further. Incubation was also awarded to the two winning hacks from the 'Music Things for Music Ecosystems' and 'Music as Communication' prizes from Umeå based incubators eXpression, and the final winning Cymatics team were awarded the materials to help with future endeavours.\n\nThe Volvo Kids Hack ran on Sunday morning 10:00-12:00, led by Siobhan Ramsey of Sandbox Education, with presentations on stage in the afternoon at 14:00. Young Hackers, aged between 8-12 used tools from Arduino and Bare Conductive to create interactive instruments and musical interfaces.\n\nMTF Scandinavia also included two new editions, a Jam Camp which lasted the duration of the festival and a Trackathon which ran for a week. The Jam Camp, led by Obi Blanche, was a space for people to try out music technology and play together. This culminated in a Jam performance on stage on the final night of the festival. The trackathon was sponsored by Toontrack and was a competition to create a track using the Toontrack drum packages. The two winners of the challenge, CJ Carr and Matan Berkowitz had their tracks mastered and released on Bandcamp by members of the judging panel including Vince Lynch, Pascal Guyon and Phonat (Michele Balduzzi). All money raised went to a charity supporting artists suffering from depression.\n\nMTF Scandinavia was held at Sliperiet - a co-creative space in Umeå Arts Campus where MTF is based, alongside many other creative enterprises. Throughout the weekend, organisations from Sliperiet put on sound installations around the upper floors of the building. These included ‘The Voice Harvester’ by Swedish ICT Interactive, ‘Audification of Absence’ by Willem Zwagers, and ‘Bubble Room Instrument’, ‘Bridging Realities Collaborative’, ‘Untitled 5:22mins’ and ‘Silent Forest’ by JAQ. There were also two installations on the ground floor from outside of Sliperiet; James Brewster’s Electro Acoustic Cafe, and ‘The Worlds Biggest Midi Controller’ by Hakan Lidbo.\n\nThere was also a gamification workshop on Saturday, which led to the development of the CreaCity platform for the city of Umeå, Sweden. CreaCity was released as part of the European SPECIFI project to develop tools for engagement with city culture and local businesses.\n\nSponsors and partners of MTF Scandinavia include; 4Sound, Bare Conductive, Beer Studio, Costas of Sweden, Electronic Sound, Drake Music, Guitars – the Museum, Hansson & Hammar, HUMlab Umeå, Kulturverket, Jays, Kitmonsters, Laser Unicorns, Musikanten, Sliperiet Umeå Universitet, Sonos, Soundation, SoundCloud, Spendrups, Swedbank, Teenage Engineering, Tiljan, Toontrack, U & Me Hotel, Umeå University, Umeå kommun, Umenet, Uminova Innovation, Uminova eXpression, Visit Umeå, Volvo, Warner Music Group, topi, YNK Produktion, Ninja Tune.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1447056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1447056", "title": "NAMM Show", "text": "NAMM Show\n\nThe NAMM Show is an annual event in the US that its organizers describe as \"the world’s largest trade-only event for the music products, pro audio and event tech industry\". It is held every January in Anaheim, California, US at the Anaheim Convention Center, and is one of the two largest music product trade shows in the world. Its European counterpart is the \"Musik Messe\" in Frankfurt. The event attracts numerous famous musicians, many of whom are endorsed by exhibitors and come to promote their own signature models and equipment.\n\nNAMM is a trade-only business show catering to domestic and international dealers and distributors. The product exhibits are an integral part of the show, allowing the dealers and distributors to see what's new, negotiate deals and plan their purchasing for the next 6 to 12 months. Exhibitors are allotted a specific number of badges based on the size of their booth. Retail Members are allowed a certain number of badges based on their full-time employees.\n\nFounded in 1901, \"NAMM\" stands for the \"N\"ational \"A\"ssociation of \"M\"usic \"M\"erchants, although, since its inception, NAMM has evolved from a national retail association into an international association whose members now include commercial companies, distributors, affiliates and manufacturers.\n\nThe association's other show, Summer NAMM, takes place in the Summer in Nashville, Tennessee, at the newly constructed Music City Center. Summer NAMM is approximately one quarter the size of the NAMM Show in January and focuses more on industry meetings and professional development than products.\n\n"}
{"id": "7726007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726007", "title": "NATO bombing of Novi Sad", "text": "NATO bombing of Novi Sad\n\nDuring the 1999 NATO bombing of Yugoslavia, the second largest Yugoslav city of Novi Sad was one of the cities that bore the brunt of the bombing. According to NATO press releases, the bombing targeted oil refineries, roads, bridges, and telecommunications relay stations, facilities which had military uses. The bombing of the city caused great damage to local civilians, including severe pollution and widespread ecological damage as well as lasting consequences for the well being of the population.\n\n\n\n\nThe civilians of Novi Sad were greatly affected by the bombing of their city. The city's oil refinery was bombarded daily, causing severe pollution and widespread ecological damage.\n\nThe bombing caused civilian deaths and injuries. Those who were not directly physically harmed suffer from consequences for their physical health caused by ecological damage as well as permanent consequences for psychological health caused by almost 3 months of trauma and fear. Due to the NATO attacks, many in Novi Sad were left jobless.\n\nNotably, NATO were accused of failing to give \"effective advance warning\" of attacks which may affect civilians, as required by Protocol I. One such attack where NATO was accused of this was the bombing of the Ministry of Education in Novi Sad, premises which administered social welfare programmes.\n\nThe NATO bombing left the city without any of its three Danube bridges, communications, water, and electricity, which severely impaired the day to day living of the residents of Novi Sad. All three bridges have been rebuilt as of 2018 Žeželj Bridge.\n\nWater supplies (including drinking water) for parts of the city were cut off as a result of the bombing. One attack cut off water supplies to 40,000 people in Petrovaradin, and severely disrupted water supplies to 300,000 people in Novi Sad. Services were restored only after two years, partially due to funding from Britain, one of the countries which bombed targets in the city in 1999.\n\nThe bombing of Novi Sad had implications for the environment. A United Nations study (the BTF ‘Industrial Sites’ and ‘Danube’ missions) found that there were serious environmental issues, \"requiring immediate action\", some of which resulted from the bombing. The bombing of Novi Sad's refinery caused fires which burned 50,000 tons of crude oil, sending toxins and carcinogens into the air and contaminating groundwater. The BTF study was complicated by the heavy pollution that existed before the bombing, with the group noting that \"the enforced shutdown of the refinery may even have led to local improvements in the aquatic environment, due to a possible reduction in chronic pollution\".\n\nOnce all the samples for Novi Sad (Danube Mission) were collated, \"based on field observation and results from sample analysis, the BTF concluded that there was no evidence of significant adverse impacts on the Danube aquatic environment as a result of air strikes on Novi Sad refinery. It is thought that most of the oils and oil products released were burned and that no significant volume entered the river\".\n\nThe BTF study also found that prior to the air strikes, local technicians helped minimise the potential harmful effects of air strikes by \"removing oil products that could be harmful to human health if spilt or burnt, such as transformer oil containing PCBs. Production was also accelerated to use up as much as possible of the crude oil, intermediate products and additives, and the final products were shipped to other locations. The remaining oil was mixed with gasoline, so that the tanks would ignite if hit, rather than leak into the soil and groundwater\". \n\nLocal scientists also studied the impact of the bombing. \"NATO didn’t use chemical weapons during the bombing\", said Dr. Zorka Vukmirović, a leading environmental physicist, \"But indirectly it caused the effects of chemical weapons use. If you release so many hazardous substances, major air pollutants and carcinogens in the vicinity of big cities like Belgrade and Niš, it is obviously a deliberate action against the civilian population\".\n\nNot until 2003, the Danube river was declared clear again. It took four years of work by the Danube Commission to remove the debris of bombed bridges and ordnance. The clearing of the debris was not only important for Novi Sad, but for European states (Hungary & Romania) who were economically impacted by the blockade of river traffic to the Black sea caused by the bombing.\n\nNATO was accused of committing war crimes due to the nature of some of the bombing raids. Some Novi Sad residents found it ironic that Novi Sad was so heavily targeted by NATO due to the fact that during the time of the bombing, the city was ruled by the local Democratic Opposition, which was against the regime in Belgrade. Therefore, some citizens of Novi Sad were not able to understand why the city was targeted heavily for the events in Kosovo.\n\nA press release one year on from the bombing by then NATO Secretary General Robertson, claims that NATO encountered complications from Yugoslav military use of civilian buildings and human shields. NATO officials have \"expressed deep regret at any civilian casualties it caused\". \n\nNATO claims that the bombing of targets such as bridges was aimed at impairing the Yugoslav Army's command and control structure. However, the efficacy of the campaign and choice of targets was brought into question by human rights groups, after bridges of no conceivable strategic relevance to the military situation in Kosovo were bombed, including a bridge which led to Hungary, a NATO country. MAICL argued that the civilian deaths caused were clearly disproportionate to the military benefits in response to NATO's justification of actions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "80193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80193", "title": "Pete Peterson", "text": "Pete Peterson\n\nDouglas Brian \"Pete\" Peterson (born June 26, 1935) is an American politician and diplomat. He served as a United States Air Force pilot during the Vietnam War and spent over six years as a prisoner of the North Vietnamese army after his plane was shot down. He returned to Hanoi when he became the first United States Ambassador to Vietnam in 1997. He was an ambassador until July 2001, after which he devoted himself to philanthropic work.\n\nPeterson grew up in Milton, Iowa and attended college at the University of Tampa. He joined the U.S. Air Force and served in the Vietnam War, where his F-4 Phantom II fighter was shot down on September 10, 1966. He spent six years in prison, a period he described as \"hours and hours of boredom, spliced with moments of stark terror.\" He was released on March 4, 1973.\n\nAfter the Vietnam War, Peterson remained in the U.S. Air Force and retired in 1981 as a colonel with 26 years of service. After retirement he established a general contracting firm in Tampa, Florida and later a small computer company in Marianna, Florida. He served for 5 years on the faculty of Florida State University in Tallahassee, Florida.\n\nIn 1990, Peterson ran as a Democrat for a seat in the United States House of Representatives in Florida's 2nd congressional district. He defeated James W. Grant, a politician who grew unpopular after switching from the Democratic Party to the Republican Party in the middle of his second term.\n\nHe declined to run for a fourth term (he was succeeded by Allen Boyd) and in 1997 was asked by President Bill Clinton to become the United States's first post-war ambassador to Vietnam. One of his goals was securing an account of those still listed as missing in action from the war and so helping to resolve the Vietnam War POW/MIA issue.\n\nOn November 17, 2000, he was presented with the Presidential Citizens Medal by President Clinton.\n\nSince retiring as ambassador, Peterson founded The Alliance for Safe Children, TASC, which aims to lower preventable injuries to children worldwide, and focuses specifically on such issues as drowning in Asia. With his wife he started a company whose aim it is to promote American business in Southeast Asia.\n\nPeterson is a Senior Advisor for Albright Stonebridge Group, an international strategic consulting firm.\n\nIn 1995, his first wife, Carlotta, had died, and two weeks after his installation in Hanoi he met Vi Le, Australia's senior trade commissioner, born in Vietnam, whom he married. In 2002, he moved to Melbourne, Australia so they could be closer to her family.\n\nIn 2009, Peterson acquired Australian citizenship.\n\n"}
{"id": "39733366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39733366", "title": "Philippine Fashion Week", "text": "Philippine Fashion Week\n\nPhilippine Fashion Week, (PhFW) is a bi-annual fashion week event held in Manila, Philippines. Dates are determined during the month of May, to showcase Holiday collections (instead of the autumn-winter which does not apply in the country) and again, during the month of October, to showcase Spring and Summer collections. It is the longest running fashion event in the country, and the largest fashion event held in Manila known as the \"Olympics\" of Fashion. The Philippine Fashion Week was founded by Joey A. Espino Jr and Audie Espino in 1997. They continue to lead the project as Executive Producers along with Espino brothers protege Conchitina (Tina) Herrera.\n\nFilipino Designers such as Arcylen moya, Ezra Santos, Oliver Tolentino, Albert Andrada, Jerome Salaya Ang, Noel Crisostomo, Jeffrey Rogador, Sidney Perez Sio, EsAc, Pat Santos, Arnold Galang, Roland Alzate, Raoul Ramirez, Lyle Ibanez, Cherry Samuya Veric, Philipp Tampus, Junjun Cambe, Mixy Dy, Jian Lasala, Randall Solomon, Kaye Morales, Boyet Dysangco, Anthony Nocom, Eric Delos Santos, Cesar Gaupo, Robin Tomas, Lesley Mobo, Frederick Peralta, Ben Farrales, Pitoy Moreno and Aureo Alonzo have presented full collections on Philippine Fashion Week's dynamic Multi-Media platform. The Philippine Fashion Week is ‘by invitation only’ and participating designers pay a participation fee with each designer undergoing a stringent selection process with their collections approved on the basis of their design ingenuity.\n\nEach season, Philippine Fashion Week generates extensive media coverage reaching an average audience of five million viewers, followers and fashion fans throughout the world.\n\nAs of 2008 it is being held at the SMX Convention Center & SM Mall of Asia and welcomed more designers and local brands to take part in the Bi Annual Event.\n\nSome of the notable celebrities and personalities gracing the runways of Philippine Fashion Week include Nina Garcia of \"Project Runway\" US, \"Gossip Girl\"'s Leighton Meester, \"Keeping Up with the Kardashians\"' Rob Kardashian and Kylie Jenner, British supermodel David Gandy, \"America's Next Top Model\"'s Allison Harvard and Dominique Reighard, Ford Models' Katie Ford and the Miss Shapes to name a few. International Filipino supermodels Charo Ronquillo, Charlene Almarvez, Danica Magpantay, Manuela Basilio and Paolo Roldan also return home to walk the runways.\n\nPhilippine Fashion Week continues discover, nurture and showcase the new generation designers who have gone on to conquer the world of fashion and attain global recognition worn by celebrities including Beyoncé, Rihanna, Lady Gaga, Sofía Vergara, Christina Aguilera, Nicole Scherzinger, Jennifer Lopez, Chris Brown, Britney Spears, Fergie, Tyra Banks, Paula Patton, Paris Hilton, Dita Von Teese, Emmy Rossum and Mischa Barton.\n\nPhilippine Fashion Week is annually presented by Runway Productions, CalCarries, EsAC and Masters School for Models. In previous seasons Philippine Fashion Week was sponsored MasterCard, L'Oreal Paris, Maybelline New York, Power Mac Center, Beats by Dre, Moshi, Gosh, Knomo London, Happy Plugs Stockholm, CaseMate, BDO, SM Residences, Hamilo Coast, Pico de Loro Club, Ipanema, Sony Vaio, Sony Cybershot, PLDT, Axe, Ponds, Sunsilk, Cream Silk, Magnum Ice Cream, Nestle, Emperador and Cignal TV to name a few.\n\nThe government sector has also turned to the runways of Philippine Fashion Week to shine the spotlight on local fabric and craftsmanship including Department of Agriculture, Fiber Industry Development Authority and Burdang Taal collaborating with Filipino Designers for each respective collection.\n\nOther special presentations on the runways of Philippine Fashion Week include SM Department Store's 50th Anniversary Celebration, A tribute to Louie Mamengo, A tribute to Joe Salazar, Salvacion Lim Higgins Slim's at 50, Project Runway Philippines Finale Season 1 and Season 2, Ford Supermodel of the World Philippines, and Supermodel Philippines.\n\nParticipating brands in the recent years have grown from SM Store's SM Woman, SM Men, SM Kids, SM Shoes & Bags, Parisian, Forever 21, Alexander Wang X H&M, The Ramp- Crossings Department Store, Rusty Lopez, Bench, Human, Kashieca, Freego, FG, Wrangler, Giordano, Vans, Guess, Levi's, Lee Jeans, Jag Jeans, Candie's, Folded & Hung, Triumph, Wharton, Jelly Bean, Bayo, Plains & Prints, Petit Monde, Barbie 50th Anniversary, Penshoppe, Oxygen, Regatta, Memo, For Me, Avon Fashion, Unica Hija, Sfera, Suite Blanco, Uno de 50, Mint gather to showcase their collection each season.\n\nPhilippine Fashion Week was previously held at Glorietta Activity Center with offsite shows, parties and activities at the NBC Tent, The Rockwell Tent, InterContinental Manila and Shangri-la Makati. Its early years saw the participation of mostly international fashion brands entering the Philippine market and group show designers presenting capsule collections that took place for 7–10 days once a year.\n\nToday the Philippine Fashion Week is held at venues like the SMX Convention Center, SM Mall of Asia Arena, SM Mall of Asia, SM Aura with off-site activities at the Peninsula Hotel Manila and Raven Boutique Club.\n\n\nwww.philippinefashionweeklive.com\n"}
{"id": "4008941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4008941", "title": "Post-war", "text": "Post-war\n\nA post-war period or postwar period is the interval immediately following the end of a war. A post-war period can become an interwar period or interbellum, when a war between the same parties resumes at a later date (e.g., the period between World War I and World War II). By contrast, a post-war period marks the cessation of conflict entirely.\n\nIn Western usage, references to the post-war era or postwar era (sometimes capitalized) usually refer to the time since the end of World War II, although many nations involved in the Second World War have been involved in wars since.\n\nThe term \"post-war\" can have different meanings in different countries and refer to a period determined by local considerations based on the effect of the war there. In Britain, \"post-war\" refers to the period from the election of Clement Attlee in 1945 to that of Margaret Thatcher in 1979, a period of so-called post-war consensus, while it may also refer to a shorter period, ending in 1960 or shortly after and corresponding to the 1950s era, hence 1945–1960.\n\nConsidering the post-war era as equivalent to the Cold War era, post-war sometimes includes the 1980s, putting the end at December 1991, with the Dissolution of the Soviet Union. The 1990s and the 21st century are rarely considered to be part of the post-war era.\n\n"}
{"id": "36642961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36642961", "title": "Queen's Theatre, Adelaide", "text": "Queen's Theatre, Adelaide\n\nThe Queen's Theatre is a building of historic importance in Playhouse Lane, Adelaide, South Australia. It is the oldest intact theatre in mainland Australia, but was predated by Theatre Royal in Hobart, Tasmania. It was not the first theatre in Adelaide however, that being Samson Cameron's short-lived Royal Victoria Theatre on North Terrace which opened on 23 November 1839.\n\nBy the early 1800s, live performance was increasing in popularity in Australia, although no entertainment venues existed to house performances. In the 1830s, both Sydney and Hobart received two theatres, the first in the Australian colonies. \n\nOnly four years following settlement of South Australia in 1836, attempts to build a substantial theatre in an increasingly prosperous Adelaide were made, with a declaration by the \"South Australian Register\" stating \"...Mr Solomon, of Currie Street, is about to make an important addition to the quarter of Gilles Arcade, by the erection of a spacious and handsome edifice which he ends to fit up as a theatre\". It was built for Emanuel Solomon (1800–1873) and his Sydney-based brother Vaiben Solomon (1802–1860) in 1840 for £3000 with seating for over 1000 people. The project had dire predictions of failure from the press and opened with \"Othello\" on 11 January 1841, the manager John Lazar in the title role, to \"mixed reviews\". The Southern Australian's prognostications proved correct. Public appetite for entertainment had waned with the Depression brought on by Governor Grey's fiscally responsible regime following the prosperity of Governor Gawler's rule, when huge sums were invested in public infrastructure. \nAfter months of losing money, Lazar dismissed his company and converted the seating to something more appropriate to public meetings, and some use was made of the theatre for public meetings and lectures, but did not renew his lease.\nSolomon offered the government use of the theatre \"gratis\" if they would prohibit the building of further taverns in the vicinity (his Shakspere Tavern, subsequently named Temple Tavern, was adjacent). This was rejected, but in 1843 the government signed a contract with Solomon for three years' rental at £200 per annum for use as Resident Magistrates Court, Supreme Court and offices for the Registrar General, the Advocate General, the Assistant Crown Solicitor and Assistant to the Bench of Magistrates.\n\nBetween 1846 and 1847 Solomon, whose nephew Judah Moss Solomon (1818–1880) was an occasional partner, attempted to sell the theatre and tavern by lottery, but it was never fully subscribed so he refunded to the punters their stakes.\n\nIt reopened, re-using the name Royal Victoria Theatre, under the management of John Lazar and George Coppin, on 23 December 1850.\n\nIn 1861 it closed for refurbishment and substantial remodelling, and reopened in July with A. J. Solomon the new lessee and Robert MacGowan the stage manager of what was Adelaide's only theatre until the opening of the Theatre Royal at 28 Hindley Street on 13 April 1868, which spelled the demise of the \"Victoria\".\n\nIt then became successively a dance hall designated the \"Prado\", the headquarters for the City Mission, a horse market and other commercial uses, and finally a car park.\n\nThe building was purchased by the South Australian Asset Management Corporation and transferred to Heritage SA in the 1980s. Excavation revealed historically significant remains and numerous artefacts.\n\nThe Queen's Theatre was reopened as a performance venue at the 1996 Adelaide Festival of Arts, with a performance of The Magic Flute by Opera Australia. Following essential refurbishments, it was reopened for the launch of the 1998 Festival of Arts by Robyn Archer.\n\nThe theatre is now used as a performance space and function venue, but with stringent conditions intended to preserve as far as possible, the old character of the building..\nThe Queen’s Theatre is now managed by GWB McFarlane Theatres.. \n\nA new theatre was built in 1846 for George Coppin on nearby land on Light Square belonging to Solomon and managed by John Lazar, architect one Thomas Price. The hall held 700 and had the distinction of prohibiting smoking in the boxes. In January 1850, the New Queen's Theatre was described by the \"South Australian Register\" as \"a hotbed of demoralization\" and that \"no man can sit out a performance without being disgusted ; no lady can enter the impure precincts without contamination\". This article was the occasion of a successful libel case against editor John Stephens in March 1850. The Adelaide Garrick Club may have been the last company to mount plays there, with productions of three Thomas Morton comedies, the last in September 1850. There is no newspaper reference to this theatre after November 1850.\n"}
{"id": "32249486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32249486", "title": "Read. (Dubai)", "text": "Read. (Dubai)\n\nRead. is a tabloid-sized weekly magazine with a newspaper approach that is distributed to commuters in the Dubai Metro network.\n\n\"Read.\" is the first publication in the Middle East region produced exclusively for metro commuters. \"Read.\" is published in English and it is available free of charge.\n"}
{"id": "21919535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21919535", "title": "Russell Foskett", "text": "Russell Foskett\n\nRussell George Foskett, (7 May 1917 – 31 October 1944) was an Australian aviator and flying ace of the Second World War. Born in a suburb of Sydney, Foskett was employed as a clerk in 1940 when he enlisted in the Royal Australian Air Force. Accepted as a pilot under the Empire Air Training Scheme, he completed his training in Australia and Southern Rhodesia, before transferring for service over North Africa. In subsequent aerial engagements, Foskett was officially credited with the destruction of 6½ Axis aircraft and awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross. Appointed to command No. 94 Squadron RAF, he was transferred to the Mediterranean Theatre in 1944. Foskett was killed on 31 October 1944, after his aircraft developed engine trouble and he was forced to bail out over the Aegean Sea, where his parachute failed to open.\n\nFoskett was born in the Sydney suburb of Roseville, New South Wales, on 7 May 1917 to Edward George Foskett, an accountant, and his wife Dora Mabel (née Cotterill). Foskett was educated at Hornsby Junior Technical School, before going on to study accountancy. He later gained employment as a clerk in the credit department of Shell Co. of Australia Pty Ltd. In his youth, Foskett was active in scouting as a Rover as well as sport, particularly hockey; he was a member of the Gordon district hockey club and represented New South Wales.\n\nOn 18 September 1940, Foskett enlisted in the Royal Australian Air Force for service during the Second World War. Accepted for flight training under the Empire Air Training Scheme, he received his initial flight instruction at No. 2 Initial Training School, Bradfield Park. Completing this course on 9 November, Foskett was advanced to leading aircraftman and posted to No. 2 Embarkation Depot. On 10 December, he embarked from Sydney bound for Africa.\n\nFoskett disembarked at Southern Rhodesia in January 1941, following a three-week voyage. Allocated to the Initial Training Wing, he completed a two-week stint with the unit before proceeding to No. 25 Empire Flight Training School. On graduating from the school, Foskett was posted to No. 20 Service Flying School for advanced flight instruction on 5 March; he was promoted to acting sergeant the following day. On 23 April, Foskett was awarded his flying badge, becoming a fully qualified pilot.\n\nPromoted to the substantive rank of sergeant on 10 June 1941, Foskett was transferred to the RAF Headquarters, Middle East the following day. He spent two weeks with the headquarters, prior to moving on to No. 71 Operation Training Unit. In July, Foskett was posted to No. 80 Squadron RAF, flying Hawker Hurricanes over North Africa. Commissioned as a pilot officer on 15 March 1942, Foskett was further promoted to acting flight lieutenant in July and appointed a flight commander of the squadron the following month. The commanding officer of No. 80 Squadron, Donald Jack, later commented of Foskett during this time: \"the man, who was a born leader ... had everything required; enthusiasm, aggression, humour, a zest for life and boundless energy\".\n\nOn 3 November 1942, Foskett led his squadron in a sortie over El Alamein against a formation of Stuka dive bombers that were escorted by Messerschmitt 109s. During the ensuing engagement, seven Stukas were shot down, with an additional eight probably destroyed and several others damaged. Foskett himself shot down two of the Axis aircraft before he was hit by fire from one of the Messerschmitts. Forced down, Foskett landed his aircraft in a minefield, where he was safely extracted by a formation of the British Army in the area. Returning to his squadron that evening, Foskett resumed flying duties the following morning. Foskett was subsequently awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross for his actions during the engagement. The announcement and accompanying citation for the award was published in a supplement to the \"London Gazette\" on 4 December 1942, reading:\n\nFoskett continued to undertake sorties with No. 80 Squadron until late March 1943, when his operational tour came to an end. Promoted to acting squadron leader, he was posted as a staff officer to the headquarters of No. 209 Group, located in Haifa, Palestine, on 25 May. Foskett's service with the headquarters lasted until 6 October, when he was appointed as commander of No. 94 Squadron RAF. Based in the Libyan town of El Adem, the squadron was equipped with Hawker Hurricanes and consisted of a mixture of Commonwealth personnel, in addition to a contingent of Yugoslavian pilots.\n\nFoskett administered and led No. 94 Squadron as it operated over North Africa and the Middle East throughout 1944. Noted as \"outstanding\" as \"a fighter pilot and commander\" during this time, Foskett was consequently Mentioned in Despatches and awarded the wings of the Royal Yugoslav Air Force by King Peter II. The squadron was re-equipped with Supermarine Spitfires during February that year, and it was while piloting one of these aircraft that Foskett scored his final victory of the war. On 6 June, Foskett was involved in a sweeping sortie over Crete when he became engaged with a Junkers Ju 52. In the ensuing battle, Foskett managed to shoot down the opposing aircraft over Tmimi, Libya. During October 1944, No. 94 Squadron was relocated to Kalamaki, Greece.\n\nOn 31 October 1944, Foskett was returning to base following an operation when his Spitfire developed engine trouble between the islands of Skiathos and Skópelos over the Aegean Sea. He attempted to bail out of the aircraft, but his altitude was too low for his parachute to open, and he was consequently killed. Foskett's body was later recovered, and he was buried at sea; he is commemorated on the Malta Memorial. Foskett's younger brother Bruce William, a Royal Australian Air Force navigator, had been killed in an operation over Berlin the previous February. By the time of his death, Foskett had been officially credited with a tally of 6½ Axis aircraft shot down. For his command of No. 94 Squadron, Foskett was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire, which was posthumously announced in a supplement to the \"London Gazette\" on 1 January 1945. On 16 February 1946, Foskett's father, Edward, attended an investiture ceremony at Government House, Sydney, where he was presented with his late son's decorations by the Governor-General of Australia, Prince Henry, Duke of Gloucester.\n"}
{"id": "12461810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12461810", "title": "Scott Thomas Beauchamp controversy", "text": "Scott Thomas Beauchamp controversy\n\nThe Scott Thomas Beauchamp controversy concerns the publication of a series of diaries by Scott Thomas Beauchamp (b. 1983 St. Louis, Missouri) – a private in the United States Army, serving in the Iraq War, and a member of Alpha Company, 1-18 Infantry, Second Brigade Combat Team, First Infantry Division.\n\nIn 2007, using the pen name \"Scott Thomas\", Beauchamp filed three entries in \"The New Republic\" (TNR) about serving at forward operating base Falcon, Baghdad. These entries concerned alleged misconduct by soldiers, including Beauchamp, in post-invasion Iraq.\n\nSeveral publications and bloggers questioned Beauchamp's statements. A U.S. Army investigation had concluded the statements in the material were false. \"The New Republic\" investigated the statements, first standing by the content of Beauchamp's articles for several months, then concluding that they could no longer stand by this material.\n\nIn a diary entry in \"The New Republic\", Beauchamp claims he ridiculed a woman in Iraq whose face had been severely burned: \"I love chicks that have been intimate with IEDs\" (improvised explosive devices), Beauchamp quotes himself as saying, loudly, to his friends in the chow hall. \"It really turns me on—melted skin, missing limbs, plastic noses,\" he recounted. \"My friend was practically falling out of his chair laughing...The disfigured woman slammed her cup down and ran out of the chow hall.\"\n\nNext, he described finding the remains of children in a mass grave uncovered while his unit constructed a combat outpost: \"One private...found the top part of a human skull... As he marched around with the skull on his head, people dropped shovels and sandbags, folding in half with laughter ... No one was disgusted. Me included.\"\n\nFinally, Beauchamp described another soldier \"who only really enjoyed driving Bradley Fighting Vehicles because it gave him the opportunity to run things over. He took out curbs, concrete barriers, corners of buildings, stands in the market, and his favorite target: dogs.\" Beauchamp described how the soldier killed three dogs in one day: \"He slowed the Bradley down to lure the first kill in, and, as the diesel engine grew quieter, the dog walked close enough for him to jerk the machine hard to the right and snag its leg under the tracks.\"\n\nAfter the publication of \"Shock Troops\", \"The Weekly Standard\" and \"National Review\" questioned the veracity of Beauchamp's statements. For example, \"The Weekly Standard\" reported that one of the anonymous military experts consulted by \"TNR\" refuted Beauchamp's allegations regarding Bradley Fighting Vehicles. As the controversy continued, \"The Washington Post\" reported that Beauchamp did not provide documentation for his three published columns.\n\nIn a follow-up posting on \"The New Republic\", Beauchamp objected to charges of falsification: \"It's been maddening...to see the plausibility of events that I witnessed questioned by people who have never served in Iraq. I was initially reluctant to take the time out of my already insane schedule fighting an actual war in order to play some role in an ideological battle that I never wanted to join.\"\n\n\"New Republic\" editor Franklin Foer disclosed that Beauchamp is married to Elspeth Reeve, a former \"New Republic\" reporter and fact checker, and that his relationship with Reeve was \"part of the reason why we found him to be a credible writer.\" Accused of insufficient fact-checking, the magazine had, according to Foer, planned to \"re-report every detail\", but the magazine later stated that their investigation was \"short circuited\" after the Army severed Beauchamp's communications with anyone overseas.\n\nIn an August 2 statement, after an internal investigation, editors for \"The New Republic\" defended Beauchamp's statements, with one exception—that the conversation about the disfigured woman had occurred at Camp Buehring in Kuwait, not Iraq, an error for which The New Republic apologized to its readers. According to the statement, five anonymous members of Beauchamp's company had also confirmed the other aspects of Beauchamp's entry.\n\nThe statement continued to say that the Army's investigation had impeded their own investigation, because communication with Beauchamp had been cut off, and \"his fellow soldiers no longer feel comfortable communicating with reporters...If further substantive information comes to light, TNR will, of course, share it with you.\"\n\"The New Republic's\" Jason Zengerle was told by the Army there was no evidence of a horribly burned woman at a Kuwait base camp after the magazine published its Editor's Note on the matter. Peter Scoblic, executive editor of TNR, has stated to Beauchamp directly that \"I understand why there are questions being raised about the piece\".\n\nOn August 9, 2007, A spokesman for the 4th Brigade, 1st Infantry Division clarified the results of the Army investigation in an e-mail interview with the \"Associated Press\":\n\nA July 31, 2007 memorandum from Major John D. Cross, the Investigating Officer, entitled \"Legal Review of AR 15-6 Investigation Regarding Allegations of Soldier Misconduct Published in \"The New Republic\"\" found:\n\nIn a \"\" the commanding officer of Beauchamp's battalion, Lieutenant Colonel George A. Glaze, wrote in part:\n\nOn August 6, 2007, the \"Weekly Standard\"'s blog reported that Scott Thomas Beauchamp recanted under oath to Army investigators.\n\nOn August 7, \"The New Republic\" reported:\n\nOn October 24, 2007, the Drudge Report website published the transcript of a phone call that occurred on September 7, 2007 between Beauchamp and senior TNR staff, including Franklin Foer. In this conversation, Beauchamp refused to affirm the accuracy of his reports, despite pressure from Foer to do so. Foer confirmed the accuracy of the transcript, but asserted that Beauchamp did not recant his story and claimed that independent, anonymous sources have backed up Beauchamps's charges and therefore TNR will not retract the stories. Kathryn Jean Lopez, \"National Review Online\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s editor also questioned the accuracy of Drudge's characterization of \"The New Republic\" interview as a recantation.\n\nHours later, the documents were no longer available at the Drudge Report. National Review Online posted the documents on its website. These documents, and other details of the Army investigation, in spite of being confirmed by \"National Review\" as real, were not officially released. \"We are not going into the details of the investigation,\" Maj. Steven F. Lamb, deputy public affairs officer in Baghdad, wrote in an e-mail message. \"The allegations are false, [Beauchamp's] platoon and company were interviewed, and no one could substantiate the claims he made.\"\n\nA December 2007 article by Franklin Foer lengthily addresses the issues of the controversy, concluding:\n\n"}
{"id": "23525286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23525286", "title": "Southern Forestry Conclave", "text": "Southern Forestry Conclave\n\nThe Southern Forestry Conclave is an annual competition among students from 15 southern forestry schools in a variety of physical and technical events. It typically involves more than 250 contestants. Traditional physical events include archery, axe throwing, pole climbing, log rolling, bow sawing, log birling, and cross-cut saw competition. Technical events include dendrology, timber volume estimation, photogrammetry, wood identification, and others. Scores from individual events are combined to determine the overall winning school of each year's conclave, which is a highly sought honor. The Forestry Conclave is hosted by the participating schools on a rotating basis and is sponsored by the Association of Southern Forestry Clubs.\n\nThe Conclave promotes spirited competition among the forestry students representing their respective schools and clubs, and participation in the Conclave helps students develop high standards and professionalism. Planning the Conclave requires considerable cooperation among the participating forestry clubs for it to be successful.\n\nEight forestry schools participated in the first Conclave in 1958, which was sponsored by the University of Georgia. Fewer than 100 students competed in the first Conclave's mainly physical events. Over 50 Conclaves have been conducted since the first one.\n"}
{"id": "32131148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32131148", "title": "Stadttheater Meran", "text": "Stadttheater Meran\n\nThe Stadttheater Meran is the civic theatre of the town of Meran in South Tyrol, northern Italy.\n\nWith the economic and financial development of the city as a spa for Empress Elisabeth of Austria and the aristocracy, the need for a higher cultural institution rose. The architect Martin Dülfer, who was a representative of the Munich School of Architecture, was given the commission to build the new theatre. He designed the theatre in the \"Jugendstil\". It was completed in 1899 and inaugurated on December 1, 1900.\n\nAfter the annexation of the town following the end of World War I from Austria-Hungary to Italy was the theatre renamed by the Italians after Giacomo Puccini, who visited the town in 1923. The theatre saw its decline after World War II and the 1950s. It was, however, revived again and renovated after a fire in 1978.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54578935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54578935", "title": "Standard Form 86", "text": "Standard Form 86\n\nStandard Form 86 (SF 86) is a United States form that individuals complete in order for the government to collect information for \"conducting background investigations, reinvestigations, and continuous evaluations of persons under consideration for, or retention of, national security positions.\" The form is required to be completed by military personnel, government contractors, and government employees in order to receive a requisite security clearance. Information demanded in the form include any colleges or universities attended over the past three years, an account of the last ten years of the individual's employment, ties to foreign nationals and governments, overseas travel, a list of past residences, etc. Failing to disclose information on the form is a federal offense punishable with a five-year prison sentence for each individual omission. \n\nAn online interface for completing the SF-86 is e-QIP, or the Electronic Questionnaires for Investigations Processing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20540284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20540284", "title": "Supreme Economic Council", "text": "Supreme Economic Council\n\nThe Supreme Economic Council was established at the Paris Peace Conference in February 1919 to advise the conference on economic measures to be taken pending the negotiation of peace. Specialized commissions were appointed to study particular problems: the organization of a League of Nations and the drafting of its Covenant; and the determination of responsibility for the war and guarantees.\n\nThe Allied Maritime Transport Council (AMTC) had been established in 1917 to co-ordinate the tight control of all shipping of the Allies of World War I. Even prior to the armistice of 11 November 1918 the Allied Maritime Transport Council had been making preparations for changes to introduce in the event of fighting ceasing. In particular they had sent a proposal that German and Austrian ships should be placed under their control as part of the armistice agreement – however they did not succeed in this. By 13 November, two days after the armistice, the British government proposed to their counterparts in France, Italy and the United States that the AMTC be transformed into a \"General Economic Council\". However the American government wanted the previous organisation to be discontinued, with a new organisation being set up to deal with such economic problems as arose. After discussion amongst the parties involved an agreement to set up the Allied Supreme Council of Supply and Relief was reacged on 12 December 1918, with the organisation holding its first meeting on 11 January 1919, a week before the actual Paris Peace Conference opened.\n\nBy the beginning of February the Supreme Economic Council had been established by merging the Allied Maritime Transport Council with the barely established Allied Supreme Council of Supply and Relief and the Inter-Allied Food Council and the Superior Blockade Council.\n\nhttp://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/574865/Supreme-Economic-Council\n"}
{"id": "40877690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40877690", "title": "Swanti (festival)", "text": "Swanti (festival)\n\nSwanti (Devanagari: स्वन्ति) is a five-day festival of Nepal which is one of the year's greatest celebrations for the Newar people. It is the Newar version of Tihar or Diwali. The festival highlights the central role of women in the household, and the rituals are related to wishing for good fortune of the family members by presenting them auspicious items and praying for longevity by placating the god of death.\n\nDuring the festival, windows and doorways are decorated with flower garlands and lamps. Deities, animals, and people are honored as part of the celebrations. The festival is marked by both Hindus and Buddhists. It is held according to the lunar calendar so the dates are changeable. In 2017, the festival is 17–21 October.\n\nThe first two days are Kwah Pujā and Khichā Pujā dedicated respectively to crows and dogs, both known as messengers of death. Goodies are left on the roof for the crows to feast upon. People honour dogs by putting a flower garland around their neck and offering them delicacies. The third day is Sā Pujā, the day dedicated to cows. They are believed to lead the spirits of the deceased to the land of the dead.\n\nAlso on the third day, householders observe Lakshmi Puja by worshipping Lakshmi, the Goddess of wealth (Nepal Bhasa: Lakshmi Dyah लक्ष्मी द्य:) (also spelled Laxmi). They paste a new painting of the Goddess at the shrine installed in an inner room and worship her by making a sand painting of a mandala. All the members of the family then offer coins and venerate her. The next day on Mha Puja, a feast known as Thāybhu, which consists of an immense plate piled high with various food items, is offered to the Goddess.\n\nThe painting of Goddess Lakshmi in Newar tradition is distinguished by her accessories and attendants. She is shown holding a Jwālā Nhāykan (ज्वाला न्हायकं) (mirror encircled by flames) in her right hand and a Sinhamu (सिन्ह:मू) (powder container covered by a five-tiered parasol) in the left hand. These two ritual objects stand for prosperity and good fortune and are necessary for many ceremonies in Newar society.\n\nThe figure of a man holding a sack of money is said to be the lord of wealth Kubera or a rich trader. The hairy creatures are known as Khyāh are believed to live in the high Himalaya. In antiquity, merchants travelling to Tibet are said to have encountered them on the snowy passes, and they may be the same as the Yeti.\n\nThe next day is Mha Puja which means \"worship of the self\". The ceremony is believed to purify and empower the soul. Mha Puja signifies an auspicious beginning of the New Year of Nepal Sambat, and invokes prosperity and longevity for the participant. The ceremony consists of worshipping one's mandala and presentation of the Sagan, a set of auspicious food items (rice wine, meat, smoked fish, lentil cake and boiled egg) which represent Tantric concepts.\n\nThe fifth day of Swanti is known as Kija Puja and is dedicated to brothers. Sisters honor their younger brothers with a ceremony where a mandala similar to the one used for Mha Puja is worshipped. They present them long-burning wicks (khelu itāh खेलु इता:) which are placed next to the mandala, and also sacred threads (kwakha क्वखा) and a basket of fruits (tahsibwa त:सिब्व) symbolizing long life and good fortune.\n\nThe sisters then offer Sagan to their brothers which consists of auspicious food items. The five items wine, meat, fish, lentil cake and egg symbolize the five Tantric concepts of light, earth, water, air, and sky respectively. The brothers give gifts of cash and clothes in return. They are then treated to a lavish feast. The ceremony may be held at the sister's home or at the brother's home as per family tradition.\n\nThe day after the end of Swanti, parents invite their married daughters to eat their share of the feast presented to Goddess Laxmi during Mha Puja. Each dish on the large plate is divided into small portions so that all the family members get a share. This party concludes the sequence of events.\n\n"}
{"id": "47366827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47366827", "title": "The Moor's Account", "text": "The Moor's Account\n\nThe Moor's Account is a novel by Laila Lalami. It was a\nPulitzer Prize for Fiction finalist in 2015.\n\n\"The Moor's Account\" is a fictional memoir of Estevanico, the Moroccan slave who survived the Narvaez expedition and accompanied Cabeza de Vaca. He is widely considered to be the first black explorer of America, but little is known about his early life except for one line in Cabeza de Vaca's chronicle: \"The fourth [survivor] is Estevanico, an Arab Negro from Azamor.\"\n\nThe story is narrated in the first person by Mustafa ibn Muhammad ibn Abdussalam al-Zamori, a Moroccan slave who has been taken by his Spanish master, Andrés de Dorantes, on an expedition to the New World. The expedition lands in Florida in the vicinity of what is now Tampa Bay. Under the leadership of Pánfilo de Narváez, the men leave their ships behind and travel inland to look for gold. As they journey northward, they face resistance by indigenous tribes, suffer from disease and starvation, and quarrel with one another. Within a year there are only four survivors: Cabeza de Vaca, the treasurer of the expedition; Alonso del Castillo, a young nobleman, Andrés de Dorantes, one of the captains; and his Moroccan slave, Mustafa, whom the other three Spaniards refer to as Estebanico. Together, these four survivors travel westward, crossing the continent and living among indigenous tribes, reinventing themselves along the way as faith healers. Some years later, they are found by a party of Spanish slavers and brought to Mexico City, where they are asked to provide testimony about their journey—all except the slave, who tells his own story in the novel.\n\nThe style of \"The Moor’s Account\" is shaped to resemble sixteenth-century travelogues. To give the impression of historical authenticity without making the novel inaccessible to contemporary readers, Lalami decided to use words that belong to the register of the 16th century, but are still in use today. She avoided contractions because they appear too modern.\n\nSince the narrator is of Arabic origin, features typical of Arabic texts are used. Thus, the narrator begins his account with a basmala, notes the passage of time according to the Hegira calendar, uses Arabic units of measurement, and refers to places with their Arabic names. The dialogue in the novel lacks quotation marks in order to replicate the style of Arabic manuscripts of the 16th century.\nIn the first half of the novel, \"The Moor’s Account\" alternates between two sets of stories: some chronicling the Narváez expedition, and others narrating Mustafa’s life prior to his arrival in the New World.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36449968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36449968", "title": "The Stones in the Park", "text": "The Stones in the Park\n\nThe Stones in the Park was a free outdoor festival held in Hyde Park on 5 July 1969, headlined by The Rolling Stones and featuring Third Ear Band, King Crimson, Screw, Alexis Korner's New Church, Family and The Battered Ornaments, in front of a crowd estimated at between 250,000 and 500,000 fans.\n\nIt was the Stones' first public concert in over two years, and was planned as an introduction of new guitarist, Mick Taylor, though circumstances inevitably changed following the death of former member Brian Jones two days earlier. The band rehearsed at the Beatles' studio in the basement of Savile Row, and Jagger and Richards came up with a 14-song set; the Hyde Park concert would be the first time many of the songs had been played before a public audience. The PA system was supplied by Watkins Electric Music, who had already handled amplification at previous Hyde Park shows.\n\nFans started to arrive at the park with candles on 4 July in tribute to Jones, and by the morning of 5 July, 7,000 people had already gathered. Mick Jagger read a short eulogy on stage before the Stones' set began, reading two stanzas of Percy Bysshe Shelley's poem on John Keats's death, \"Adonaïs\", from a calf-bound book. After this recital, several hundred cabbage white butterflies were released. The setlist for their performance was \"I'm Yours & I'm Hers\", \"Jumpin' Jack Flash\". \"Mercy Mercy\", \"Down Home Girl\", \"Stray Cat Blues\", \"No Expectations\", \"I'm Free\", \"Loving Cup\", \"Love in Vain\", \"(I Can't Get No) Satisfaction\", \"Honky Tonk Women\", \"Midnight Rambler\", \"Street Fighting Man\" and \"Sympathy for the Devil\". During the 18-minute-long rendition of \"Sympathy for the Devil\", a number of African tribal drummers joined the band.\n\nWhile the event is considered a memorable one by several critics, they also agree that it was not one of the Stones' best performances, and the guitars played during the concert were out of tune. In a 1971 interview with \"Rolling Stone\" magazine, Keith Richards evaluated their performance, \"We played pretty bad until near the end, because we hadn't played for years ... Nobody minded, because they just wanted to hear us play again.\" The Stones' portion of concert was filmed by Granada Television and broadcast that September. It has since been released on DVD and Blu-ray. In April 2013, the band announced their intention to play two return concerts on 6 and 13 July, although the performances were not free.\n\nThe festival was an important one for the Stones. They had not performed a public concert since their 1967 European Tour, and in 1968 had only performed at the NME Poll Winners Concert and at their television project \"The Rolling Stones Rock and Roll Circus\". In interviews, Mick Jagger stated that he felt the band's forte was performing live, rather than in the studio, and was keen to return to the stage. Blackhill Enterprises, which had already managed several successful concerts in Hyde Park, including a festival headlined by Blind Faith in June 1969 attended by 150,000 people, were contacted to organise one at the next convenient date after the organiser-compère of that concert, Sam Cutler, had met Jagger in the VIP area at the concert and later at the Royal Albert Hall. When asked why the festival would be free, Jagger noted that they had not made much money from previous concert tours anyway, and that he felt the audience would have a better time if they did not have to pay although he ensured that the cost of the concert would be covered by selling exclusive television rights to Granada Television.\n\nHowever, the gradual estrangement of Brian Jones and his decreasing musical contributions – he had only appeared on two tracks on the then in-progress \"Let It Bleed\" — made a return to touring problematic. They had shelved \"The Rolling Stones Rock and Roll Circus\" after having been upstaged by The Who. By June 1969, matters had finally come to a head and it was decided that Jones should be replaced for the gig.\nMick Taylor, who had by this time obtained a reputation for himself by playing with John Mayall & the Bluesbreakers, was invited to work on \"Let It Bleed\". The band enjoyed his contributions and decided to make him an offer to join full-time. After considering this for a few days, he accepted, and his position was officially announced at a press conference in the park's bandstand on 13 June. The single \"Honky Tonk Women,\" recorded on 1 June with Taylor, was rush-released to tie in with the festival date. The Hyde Park concert would be Taylor's first gig with the band, and as they had barely had any time to rehearse with him he was understandably nervous, though he later stated that he felt the others, who were far closer to Jones than him, would feel more emotionally drained. Jagger, too, was nervous, unsure whether Jones's fans would take to Taylor and indeed whether they would boycott the concert; he did not expect the crowd to match the 150,000 who had come to the Blind Faith gig. In addition, the hot summer had sent the pollen levels soaring and Jagger suffered from hay-fever and laryngitis in the days leading up to the concert.\n\nJones died on 3 July, two days before the festival. The Stones were in Olympic Studios when they were told of his death by Ian Stewart, and, although grief-stricken, decided they would go ahead with the gig and dedicate their performance to him. Keith Richards later wrote:\nThe band rehearsed at the Beatles' studio in the basement of Savile Row, and Jagger and Richards came up with a 14-song set; the Hyde Park concert would be the first time many of the songs had been played before a public audience.\n\nThe performers at the festival included Third Ear Band, Screw, King Crimson, Alexis Korner's New Church, Roy Harper, Battered Ornaments, Family and The Rolling Stones.\n\nFans started to arrive at the park with candles on 4 July in tribute to Jones, and the police allowed the park to be opened late so they could stay. By the following morning, there were already 7,000 people.\nAs with the Stones' performance at the infamous Altamont Free Concert later that year, the Hells Angels were hired as stewards to protect the stage and equipment, something suggested by the Grateful Dead's manager Rock Scully, who was used to the Angels performing this service at free festivals in California. According to Cutler, Jagger said that he was keen on doing a similar free concert in California at some time in the future. At Hyde Park, fifty Angels patrolled the vicinity of the stage, though there was little resemblance other than a superficial one to their American counterparts. They performed their duties in exchange for a cup of tea. In the event, there were only twelve arrests on the day and a subsequent police report claimed that the Angels were \"totally ineffective\".\n\nKing Crimson at this point still consisted of the original line-up of Robert Fripp, Greg Lake, Ian McDonald, Michael Giles and lyricist Peter Sinfield. They had not yet released an album, and were invited to play on the strength of word of mouth after their live performances in venues such as the Marquee Club. Sam Cutler introduced them on stage, stating the \"new band is gonna go a long way\".\nThe band's setlist was \"21st Century Schizoid Man\", \"The Court of the Crimson King\", \"Get Thy Bearings\", \"Epitaph\", \"Mantra\", \"Travel Weary Capricorn\" and \"Mars\".\n\nThree of the tracks appeared in studio form on the band's debut album, \"In the Court of the Crimson King\", albeit with different lyrics compared with the performance here. The band's set has since been released on CD, with some bonus material. Recalling the event, Fripp remembers the sense of community at the event and the good weather, particularly noting a sense of goodwill backstage.\n\nAlexis Korner's involvement with Blues Incorporated had been a key ingredient in the Stones forming in 1962, and he had played onstage with several group members during this time. New Church had been formed with guitarist Peter Thorup after the demise of Blues Incorporated.\n\nRoy Harper had been regularly appearing at a number of Hyde Park festivals since 1968 and saw his popularity increase as a result of these. This eventually resulted in Blackhill's Peter Jenner managing him, leading to a contract with Harvest Records. For 5 July gig, he contributed a one-song set between equipment changes.\n\nThe Battered Ornaments had been the backing band for Cream collaborator Pete Brown. They performed without Brown for the festival, who had been fired from the band the previous day. Guitarist Chris Spedding took over lead vocals. The band supplied the armoured personnel carrier that carried the Stones from their hotel to the park.\n\nThe band met at the Londonderry Hotel on Park Lane, overlooking the park, where they had booked a tenth-floor suite, and proceeded to the park in the armoured personnel carrier, together with their two official photographers, Michael Cooper and Spanish Tony Sanchez. They alighted from the carrier into a caravan-trailer behind the stage. Jagger, his face heavily made up and with a studded leather collar around his neck, was clad in a white dress. He had borrowed the dress, which had been made for Sammy Davis Jr. at the Mr. Fish boutique, and wore it to Prince Rupert Lowenstein's white ball, where he had shown it to Princess Margaret. Jagger was only to wear it for half-an-hour at the Hyde Park concert, after which he tore it off to reveal a violet T-shirt and white loon pants.\nBefore the Stones opened their set, Jagger addressed the crowd, asking them to be quiet so he could read something as a tribute to Jones. He then read two stanzas of Percy Bysshe Shelley's poem on John Keats's death, \"Adonaïs\", from a calf-bound book. After this recital, several hundred cabbage white butterflies were released, despite the Royal Parks authority having stipulated before the concert that any butterflies released by the Stones should be sterilised and should certainly not be of the voracious cabbage white genus (\"Pieris\" spp.). 2,500 butterflies were due to be released, but due to the hot weather, many of them died from lack of air in storage. Watts later said that the butterflies \"were a bit sad, there were casualties. It was like the Somme\".\n\nThe Stones then launched into \"I'm Yours and I'm Hers\", which, according to Philip Norman, was an ironic choice given that Marianne Faithfull and Marsha Hunt, both of whom Jagger was alleged to be having relationships with at that time, were in the audience.\n\nThe setlist for their performance was \"I'm Yours & I'm Hers\", \"Jumpin' Jack Flash\", \"No Expectations\", \"Mercy Mercy\", \"Stray Cat Blues\", \"I'm Free\", \"Down Home Girl\", \"Love in Vain\", \"Give Me a Little Drink\", \"Midnight Rambler\", \"(I Can't Get No) Satisfaction\", \"Honky Tonk Women\", \"Street Fighting Man\" and \"Sympathy for the Devil\".\n\nDuring the 18-minute-long rendition of \"Sympathy for the Devil\", a number of Ginger Johnson's African tribal drummers joined the band. After the concert ended, the volunteers who cleared up the 5,000 tonnes of rubbish were each given a copy of \"Honky Tonk Women\".\n\nThough park keepers feared that the crowd would cause damage to the park, an official estimate suggested the cost was only around £100 (now £). Park superintendent John Hare reported the most serious damage was to a silver birch tree planted the previous year. He praised the concertgoers, many of whom helped clear up after the concert and were awarded with a free Stones LP if they returned a full sack.\n\nBlackhill Enterprises provided a high stage, with the speakers being housed in a thirty-foot-high tower so that people at the far end of the park would be able to hear the music. The stage was flanked by palm trees in pots and behind the performers there was a blowup of the cover of the \"Beggars Banquet\" album. Richards had started experimenting with open tunings by this point in the band's career, particularly after hearing Ry Cooder, and the Hyde Park gig was the first chance audiences got to hear them. He played a Gibson ES-330 tuned to open E tuning with a capo on the fourth fret, and a Gibson Flying V. Taylor, meanwhile, played a Gibson Les Paul for the opening number, followed by an SG for the majority of the set. The PA system was supplied by Watkins Electric Music, who already handled amplification at previous Hyde Park shows. Company founder Charlie Watkins recalls it was the largest PA he had assembled to that point and, unable to provide enough gear himself, he was forced to borrow extras from other groups, later saying, \"I didn't have many columns, but I wanted to put 1500W up. I borrowed some from T-Rex. They all chipped in — that's what we used to do.\"\nIn 1971, in an interview with \"Rolling Stone\" magazine, Richards said, \"We played pretty bad until near the end, because we hadn't played for years ... Nobody minded, because they just wanted to hear us play again.\"\n\n\"The Guardian\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s Richard Gott stated that the show was \"a great and epoch-making event in British social history\", although he added that \"most of the music ... was indifferent\". According to Norman, \"the band's underpreparedness was painfully obvious. Keith and Mick Taylor's guitars, so harmonious at first meeting, turned into a pair of pneumatic drills fighting a grudge match to the death. Charlie's drumming and Bill's bass each seemed to have melted into jelly.\" The \"Daily Telegraph\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s Iain Martin stated that the Stones were \"under-rehearsed and quite possibly nervous, not having performed live in front of an audience in more than two years. The guitars were badly out of tune and half the songs were approached at the wrong tempo\", adding that Jagger appeared to be \"trying to cover up for the shortcomings of his bandmates\". Retrospectively reviewing the DVD release of the Stones' set, Film 4 commented: \"It isn't the greatest film about the band and it isn't their greatest performance, but for fans it captures the band at a significant moment.\"\n\nThe DVD, released on 25 September 2006, includes the same concert footage as the TV broadcast of 25 September 1969. The DVD includes three previously unseen songs which were filmed at the concert – \"Mercy, Mercy\", \"Stray Cat Blues\" and \"No Expectations\". The latter two are incomplete but are included here due to their uniqueness (HD). Also included is news footage of their early fame from 1964, footage of Mick Jagger discussing his arrest for drugs possession in July 1967 and his subsequent press conference on his release from prison, and a 1971 interview with Bill Wyman and Charlie Watts about their tour of France.\n\nEagle Rock Entertainment later issued reissued the special on DVD and Blu-Ray as \"From the Vault – Hyde Park – Live in 1969\" in 2015.\n\n\n\nOn Richard Bacon's BBC Radio 5 Live show on 3 April 2013 it was announced that the Rolling Stones would hold a concert in Hyde Park as part of their 50th anniversary celebrations on 6 July. Mick Jagger quipped, \"I'll try and keep the poetry to a minimum\", and remarked, in respect of the white dress that he wore for the 1969 concert, \"I can still just about get into the zippers.\" On 9 April it was announced that they would hold a second concert, on 13 July. Several celebrities, including David Walliams, Gemma Arterton, Chris O'Dowd, Noel Fielding, Simon Fuller and Bobby Gillespie attended 6 July gig.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59102771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59102771", "title": "Théâtre de Saint-Pierre", "text": "Théâtre de Saint-Pierre\n\nThe Théâtre de Saint-Pierre, also known as La Comédie, was a theater in Saint-Pierre, Martinique, active from 1786 to 1902. It was a famous center of culture in the West Indies for over a century. Destroyed in the volcano eruption of 1902, its ruins became a historical monument and a site for tourists. \n\nOriginally, theatre companies from France performed in temporary localities on tours to Martinique. From 1780, there where demands to the authorities to provide the colony with a permanent theatre. At that point, there where already theatres in the cities of Saint-Domingue since the 1760s and two in Guadeloupe (in Basse-Terre and Pointe-a-Pitre), and a theatre was considered to be an essential hall mark of civilisation and sophistication. The building was designed inspired by the famous Theatre of Bordeaux, and had room for 800 seats. The theatre was described as extremely elabourate and elegant, and became famous in the Caribbean. In the facility, the latest drama, opera and ballets where performed by artists from France. The artists typically stayed no more than a few years or temporary until they continued to Saint-Domingue. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "51504662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51504662", "title": "Vurpillat's Opera House", "text": "Vurpillat's Opera House\n\nVurpillat's Opera House is a historic opera house located at Winamac, Pulaski County, Indiana. It was built in 1883, and is a three-story, ractangular, Second Empire style brick building with a mansard roof. It sits on a limestone foundation and features metal decorative details.\n\nIt was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2002.\n"}
{"id": "56275153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56275153", "title": "Yellow sticker", "text": "Yellow sticker\n\nYellow stickers are a method of alerting shoppers to food which has been reduced in price because it is approaching its sell by date.\n\nYellow stickers are used by most UK supermarket chains, including Asda, Co-op, Marks and Spencer, Sainsbury's, Tesco and Waitrose.\n\nThey are also found elsewhere in the world, such as in Japan.\n"}
