{"id": "32413471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32413471", "title": "1974 FIFA World Cup qualification (UEFA–CONMEBOL play-off)", "text": "1974 FIFA World Cup qualification (UEFA–CONMEBOL play-off)\n\nThe 1973 play-off for a place in the 1974 FIFA World Cup in West Germany, between the national football teams of the Soviet Union and Chile, is notable for the political circumstances that marked the second leg of the play-off on 21 November 1973. It was scheduled to take place in the Estadio Nacional de Chile in Santiago, the Chilean capital. There had been a coup d'état in Chile two months before, immediately after which people deemed undesirable to the new regime of Augusto Pinochet had been held captive and executed in the stadium. The Soviet Union asked FIFA to find a different venue in Chile; when agreement could not be reached, the Soviet team did not take the field and was disqualified from the tournament, giving the Chilean team a victory by walkover. However, the match was still organised by FIFA as normal, but without any away team present. Chile scored 1–0 in an empty goal, and then the referee blew the game off. Chile advanced to the 1974 World Cup, where they were eliminated in the first round.\n\nSalvador Allende had been elected to power in Chile in 1970, but was overthrown by Augusto Pinochet in a coup d'état in September 1973, during which thousands of people deemed undesirable by the new regime were taken to the Estadio Nacional in Santiago, tortured and killed; this continued until 7 November. The football match between the Soviet Union and Chile in the same stadium was scheduled for 21 November.\n\nThe Soviet's qualification started on 13 October 1972 with a 1–0 loss to France, away in Paris. Five days later they faced the Republic of Ireland in Dublin and won 2–1. Their home matches were played in May 1973. On 13 May they won against the Irish by 1–0, and thirteen days later beat the French 2–0 with both goals coming in the last ten minutes. Their placement in the play-off was by being in Group 9 of the nine European groups rather than having the worst record of the qualifiers.\n\nChile was placed in Group 3 of the CONMEBOL qualification alongside Peru and Venezuela although the Venezuelans withdrew. On 29 April 1973 Chile was defeated 2–0 by the Peruvians in Lima. In the home game on 13 May 1973 Chile won 2–0, making both teams equal on points and goal difference. A play-off was held on neutral ground in Montevideo, Uruguay, where Chile triumphed 2–1 to face the Soviets.\n\nAfter the coup, the new regime had banned all Chileans from leaving the country: in addition due to its anti-communism it did not have a favourable view of the national team playing in the homeland of its staunch enemy. However, at the same time it was desirable to portray an image of normality, so the Pinochet regime let the national team travel on the condition that no one made political statements, since their relatives were under military surveillance. Some of the team members, like Véliz or Caszely, were politically close to the Allende government. In addition, the Soviet Union, an ally of the overthrown government, had condemned the military coup and did not recognise the new government, with which it broke diplomatic relations.\n\nAt Moscow airport no Chilean authority received the team. In addition, Elías Figueroa and Carlos Caszely were detained by the immigration authorities for alleged irregularities in their passports. Leonardo Véliz told the Chilean newspaper La Tercera that \"In Moscow, I was approached by a Chilean student from Lumumba University, the son of a communist militant. I told him to forget to return to Chile, because any red dye was going to be a danger to his integrity\".\n\nThe first leg was played in Moscow on 26 September, two weeks after the coup, which brought a political dimension to the match. The Soviet authorities banned the entry of journalists and cameras into the stadium. It was a very tense game that was almost cancelled due to rumours of arrests of Chilean players in exchange for the release of political prisoners. The final result was a goalless draw. \n\nThe Soviet government and media were humiliated by the result, hoping for an easy victory on home soil.\n\nIn the face of criticism of the regime regarding abuses against detainees, the Football Federation of Chile suggested other scenarios, but the military junta, in an effort to improve the climate of opinion, insisted on demonstrating normality and at the same time defeating communism playing on home ground. The Russians demanded to play the game in a neutral country, which both Chile and FIFA rejected.\n\nFIFA established a commission that inspected the National Stadium, which had been prepared for the occasion but which still had about 7,000 detainees. According to testimony of Gregorio Mena Barrales, a politician imprisoned in that stadium, that commission \"visited the field, walked around the court, looked with distant eyes at the prisoners and gave the opinion: In the stadium you could play.\" While the FIFA commission examined the stadium, the detainees were hidden inside. Before the match, the detainees were transferred to a detention site in the Atacama Desert.\n\nBut the Soviets never travelled, claiming political and security issues, arguing that the National Stadium was an illegal detention centre where more than 7000 political prisoners were crowded and where many dissidents were tortured after the coup d'état against Salvador Allende. The USSR's decision was supported by several of its allied countries, especially by East Germany which was already classified and threatened not to appear at the World Cup event. The Soviets sent a letter to FIFA explaining that \"For moral considerations, Soviets can not at this time play in the stadium of Santiago, splashed with the blood of the Chilean patriots\".\n\nChile demanded a compensation of $300,000 if the Soviets did not appear, claiming that they could not place the tickets for sale and the cost of preparing the game. FIFA declared the match a 2–0 walkover victory for Chile. However, FIFA arranged for the match to be held anyway. The match was attended by only 15,000 people. The game lasted 30 seconds, which took the Chilean team to score a goal from the kickoff. When they arrived in the area, as they had agreed, it was the captain, Francisco \"Chamaco\" Valdés, who scored the empty goal.\n\nIn later years, some members of the Soviet team stated that they thought that their government did not want to lose to a country with a different political ideology and that instead they won a moral victory in the eyes of the world.\n\nThe Chileans were drawn alongside the hosts West Germany and two first-time entrants: East Germany and Australia. In the first game, Chile lost 1–0 to West Germany, the goal being scored by Paul Breitner in the first half. Sergio Ahumada equalised for Chile in the second game to draw against the East Germans, but a 0–0 draw to Australia eliminated Chile from the World Cup. The two German teams advanced.\n\nA period of decline started for the Soviets as they also missed out on the 1978 FIFA World Cup and the UEFA European Championships of 1976 and 1980.\n\n"}
{"id": "35613349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35613349", "title": "Aaron Markovich of Wilna", "text": "Aaron Markovich of Wilna\n\nAaron Markovich of Wilna was an agent (court Jew) of King Władysław IV Vasa of Poland in the 17th century.\n\nThe only known document in which his name occurs is a letter, dated January 11, 1638, in the official correspondence between the Russian and Polish courts during the reign of Michael I of Russia, the first Russian ruler of the Romanov dynasty. In it Władysław asks of the Tsar permission for Aaron Markovich, \"the king's agent,\" to visit Moscow for the purpose of purchasing (with the privilege of exemption from custom duties) certain utensils for the royal household; also that he be allowed to take with him, for sale, some \"precious goods.\" This request, together with the fact that Władysław was not very favorably disposed toward the Jews, is evidence of the influential standing of Aaron with the Polish king. The Tsar did not grant the request, stating that \"The Jews have never come to Moscow, and the Christians must not communicate with them\".\n"}
{"id": "16024245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16024245", "title": "Airborne wind shear detection and alert system", "text": "Airborne wind shear detection and alert system\n\nThe Airborne wind shear detection and alert system, fitted in an aircraft, detects and alerts the pilot both visually and aurally of a wind shear condition. In case of reactive wind shear detection system, the detection takes place when the aircraft penetrates a wind shear condition of sufficient force, which can pose a hazard to the aircraft. In case of predictive wind shear detection system, the detection takes place, if such wind shear condition is ahead of the aircraft. In 1988 the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) mandated that all turbine-powered commercial aircraft must have on-board windshear detection systems by 1993. Airlines successfully lobbied to have commercial turbo-prop aircraft exempted from this requirement.\n\nIn the predictive wind shear detection mode, the weather radar processor of the aircraft detects the presence of the microburst, a type of vertical wind shear condition by detecting the Doppler frequency shift of the microwave pulses caused by the microburst ahead of the aircraft and displays the area where it is present in the Navigation Display Unit (of the Electronic Flight Instrument System) along with an aural warning.\n\nOn July 24, 1986, the FAA of United States and NASA signed a memorandum of agreement to formally begin the Airborne Wind-Shear Detection and Avoidance Program (AWDAP). As a result, a wind-shear program was created in the Flight Systems Directorate of NASA's Langley Research Center. After five years of intensely studying various weather phenomena and sensor technologies, the researchers decided to validate their findings in actual flight conditions. They chose an extensively modified Boeing 737, which was equipped with a rear research cockpit in place of the forward section of the passenger cabin. A modified Rockwell Collins model 708 X-band ground-based radar unit was used in the AWDAP experiments. The real-time radar processor system used during 1992 flight experiments was a VME bus-based system with a Motorola 68030 host processor and three DSP boards. \n\nOn September 1, 1994, the weather radar model RDR-4B of the Allied-Signal/Bendix (now Honeywell) became the first predictive wind-shear system to be certified for commercial airline operation. In the same year, Continental Airlines became the first commercial carrier to install an airborne predictive wind-shear detection system on its aircraft. By June 1996, Rockwell Collins and Westinghouse's Defense and Electronics Group (now Grumman/Martin) also came up with FAA-certified predictive wind-shear detection systems.\n\nThe IEEE Intelligent Transportation Systems Society is conducting researches for further developments of this system.\n\n"}
{"id": "26158737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26158737", "title": "Alcott House", "text": "Alcott House\n\nAlcott House in Ham, Surrey (now in the London Borough of Richmond upon Thames), was the home of a utopian spiritual community and progressive school which lasted from 1838 to 1848. Supporters of Alcott House, or the Concordium, were a key group involved in the formation of the Vegetarian Society in 1847.\n\nThe prime mover behind the community was \"sacred socialist\" and mystic James Pierrepont Greaves, who was influenced by American Transcendentalist Amos Bronson Alcott, and Swiss educational reformer Johann Heinrich Pestalozzi. Together with his followers, who included Charles Lane – and the help of wealthy sponsors, Sophia and Georgiana Chichester – he founded Alcott House on Ham Common in Surrey in 1838. The Ham Common Concordium, as it came to be known, consisted of a working mixed cooperative community and a progressive school for children.\n\nThe community was dedicated to a regime of spiritual development and purification, in the words of Greaves, aiming to produce the \"\"most loveful, intelligent and efficient conditions for divine progress in humanity\". To this end the members submitted to an austere regime of early rising, strict vegetarianism (usually raw food), no stimulants, celibacy, and simple living, and experimented with various practices such as astrology, hydrotherapy, mesmerism and phrenology. The men grew their hair and beards long and wore loose fitting clothes, while the women defied convention by not wearing the traditional, restrictive corset.\n\nAlcott House school was open to children from both inside and outside the community – the latter usually from radical parents who sympathised with its progressive educational stance. The curriculum emphasised moral education and the development of the child's innate spiritual gifts, teaching practical skills such as gardening and cookery as well as booklearning. Punishment was frowned upon and education aimed to produce \"integral men and women\"\", able to live in a truly cooperative society and not simply playing traditional roles.\n\nIn 1848, the community came to an end and the house was purchased by John Minter Morgan to provide an orphanage, though still run along vegetarian lines. In 1856 the foundation stone was laid of a new building on the site, South Lodge, which exists to this day. The new building has been converted to flats and the grounds have been developed as Bishops Close.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2920882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2920882", "title": "Amalgamated Society of Railway Servants v Osborne", "text": "Amalgamated Society of Railway Servants v Osborne\n\nAmalgamated Society of Railway Servants v Osborne [1910] AC 87 is a UK labour law case, which ruled that members of trade unions would now have to \"contract in\" if they wanted a portion of their salary to go to a trade union, unlike the previous system of \"contracting out\", in which the portion of salary was taken unless the individual explicitly stated otherwise.\n\nOsborne, a member of the Amalgamated Society of Railway Servants for 16 years in Walthamstow alleged that the union's creation of a political fund to support the Labour Representation Committee in elections was done irregularly in breach of union procedure. The original rules, from 1900, contained no reference to seeking Parliamentary representation. Because of the irregularity, it was argued that the donations by the union were \"ultra vires\" and void.\n\nThe House of Lords held that a union’s authority was circumscribed by the union’s rules. Use of union funds for any purpose other than those enumerated in the union rules was \"ultra vires\".\n\nAfter bringing his action, Mr Osborne was expelled from the union. He brought a further claim that his expulsion was wrongful. The Court of Appeal held that he was wrongfully excluded. Lord Cozens-Hardy MR noted that the union was, at common law, a lawful association.\n\nThe judgment threatened one of the Labour party's main funding sources. This was especially detrimental to the Labour Party as it supporters were generally poorer than other political parties. The two elections in 1910 saw Labour gain 40 seats and 42 seats respectively. In 1911 Herbert Henry Asquith's government decided, for the first time, that MPs should receive a salary. (Previously, only people with savings or funding organizations behind them could become members of parliament.) David Lloyd George, the Chancellor of the Exchequer gave MPs a wage of £400 per annum, which alleviated financial problems.\n\nThe Osborne judgment was overturned in 1913, by the Trade Union Act 1913. The Trade Disputes and Trade Unions Act 1927 required union members to opt into the political fund. The Trade Disputes and Trade Unions Act 1946 required that members opt out. Currently under TULRCA 1992 s 82, members have the right to not contribute to a political fund, not be discriminated against for it, and the right to complain to the Certification Officer.\n\n"}
{"id": "20962274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20962274", "title": "Ar Rass raids", "text": "Ar Rass raids\n\nIn April 2005, Saudi authorities launched a series of raids in Ar Rass that killed 15 alleged militants, and captured 7 others. More than fifty Saudi security forces were injured in the gunbattles.\n\nAmong those said to be killed, were the following men;\n\nAmong those said to be captured, were the following men;\n"}
{"id": "24710254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24710254", "title": "BrabenderCox", "text": "BrabenderCox\n\nBrabenderCox is a nationally recognized Republican political consulting firm, with offices in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Washington, D.C., and Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.\n\nFounded as BrabenderCox, Inc. in 1982, BrabenderCox's Pittsburgh office is located on Mount Washington, which overlooks the skyline of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and contains a mock electric chair that was once used in a prop for a political commercial.\n\nFounder, John Brabender is managing partner and Chief Creative Officer of BrabenderCox. Brabender has been dubbed 'political guru' to Rick Santorum's political career. Brabender worked five of Santorum's Pennsylvania Congressional races, starting with his first House bid in 1990 and ending with his unsuccessful Senate re-election campaign in 2006. Brabender acted as Rick Santorum's senior strategist for his unsuccessful 2012 Republican Party presidential nomination bid.\n\nCharlie Cook announced that \"BrabenderCox has become one of the hottest Republican media firms\", and in 1995 \"George\" magazine called BrabenderCox the \"premier Republican spin doctors.\"\n\nBrabenderCox also represents corporate clients, including the newly launched Pittsburgh Power Arena Football team. During the 2010 election cycle, BrabenderCox was successful in six of the top races across the country.\n\n"}
{"id": "55884819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55884819", "title": "Communist Youth Union", "text": "Communist Youth Union\n\nThe Communist Youth Union () is a youth organization, unofficialy cooperated with the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia. It was founded in 1990. The Czech Ministry of Interior dissolved KSM in 2006 due to its radical stances. It was reestablished in 2010.\n\nThe Communist Youth Union is the only WFDY member organization in the Czech Republic.\n\n"}
{"id": "4318189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4318189", "title": "Creation Ministries International", "text": "Creation Ministries International\n\nCreation Ministries International (CMI) is a non-profit young Earth creationist organisation of autonomous Creationist apologetics ministries that promote a literal interpretation of the Book of Genesis. Ministries are located in Australia, Canada, New Zealand, South Africa, the United Kingdom and the United States.\n\nIn 1977, the Creation Science Association (CSA) was organised in Adelaide, Australia by Carl Wieland. In 1978 the organisation began the magazine Ex Nihilo (from the Latin phrase \"Creatio ex nihilo\", meaning \"Creation out of nothing\"). Soon after, the Creation Science Foundation (CSF) took over production of \"Ex Nihilo\" (later renaming it Creation Ex Nihilo, and eventually simply Creation). In 1984, CSF started the Ex Nihilo Technical Journal for more in-depth analysis of creation issues (it was later renamed Creation Ex Nihilo Technical Journal, then simply TJ, and now the Journal of Creation).\n\nIn the mid-1990s, Ken Ham, formerly of the Creation Science Foundation and then part of the Institute for Creation Research, formed an autonomous ministry in the United States. This ministry, along with the Australian Creation Science Foundation, were branded Answers in Genesis (AiG); eventually, legally-autonomous Answers in Genesis offices were opened in Canada, New Zealand, South Africa, and the United Kingdom.\n\nIn October 2005, Ken Ham separated the US and UK AIG offices from the other offices. In early 2006, the Australia, Canada, New Zealand and South Africa re-branded as Creation Ministries International.\n\nIn late 2006, CMI established offices in the UK and United States. Since then CMI has distributed \"Creation\" magazine and the \"Journal of Creation\" in the United States itself.\n\nCMI publishes \"Creation\" magazine as well as \"Journal of Creation\". \"Creation\" has subscribers in more than 170 countries, with 60,000 copies of each issue produced. \"Creation\" is published four times a year. The \"Journal of Creation\" is published three times a year.\n\n\"The Voyage That Shook The World\" is a 2009 dramatised documentary film commissioned by Creation Ministries International and produced by Fathom Media. It was released to mark the 200th anniversary of Charles Darwin's birth and the 150th anniversary of the publication of his seminal work \"On the Origin of Species\".\n\nThis 52-minute-long film includes interviews with scholars, academics and scientists covering a wide range of views including proponents of the scientific consensus on evolution as well as proponents of intelligent design and young earth creationism. It features wild-life footage from the Galapagos Islands as well as on-location footage from Argentina, Chile, Tierra del Fuego, and the United Kingdom. The film's dramatised sequences were shot on location in Tasmania, Australia.\n\nCMI's history is closely linked with that of its daughter ministry in the United States, Answers in Genesis (AiG), founded by former Australian colleague Ken Ham. A legal and personal dispute broke out between the Australian and US arms of AiG in 2005, involving claims of unethical dealing in the handling of magazine subscriptions and autocratic leadership on Ham's part. A more involved analysis of the situation is described in an account in the \"Reports of the National Center for Science Education\".\n\nA lawsuit was filed on 31 May 2007, by CMI in Supreme Court of Queensland against Ken Ham and Answers in Genesis, seeking damages and accusing \"unbiblical/unethical/unlawful behaviour\" in Ham's dealings with the Australian organisation.\n\nCMI produces \"Creation Magazine\" and the \"Journal of Creation\", formerly distributed by the US and UK AiG offices to their respective countries prior to the split. The Australian group maintains it was disconnected from all its American subscribers when the US office \"announced on its web site (without telling us, the publishers) that it was ceasing to distribute both of these publications (and simultaneously announced its own magazine)\". CMI further alleged in the lawsuit that AiG misrepresented their own magazine to subscribers as a replacement of \"Creation\". CMI is claiming $252,000 (US) in damages for lost revenue by misleading and deceptive conduct in relating to lost subscriptions. The case also concerns use of the trademark \"Answers in Genesis\" within Australia, and alleged misuse by Ken Ham of his position as a director for the Australian group to cause it detriment.\n\nAnswers in Genesis has had little to say in public to these accusations, but in comments to news reporters Ken Ham dismisses them all as \"totally preposterous and untrue\".\n\nIn February 2009, the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit ordered Australian-based Creation Ministries International into arbitration in the United States with Answers in Genesis (as sought by AiG) over copyrights and control of affiliates in other countries.\n\nIn April 2009, the ministries reached a settlement and ended their dispute.\n"}
{"id": "38760321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38760321", "title": "Daciad", "text": "Daciad\n\nThe Daciad () was a multi-sport competition held every two years in the Socialist Republic of Romania meant to encourage mass participation in amateur sports. Only six editions were held,\nthe first being held in 1977-1978, when 6 million people participated (of which 2000 were selected to participate in professional sports). The last Daciad was the Winter Daciad of 1989; it was disbanded after the Romanian Revolution. \n\nCreated at the initiative of president Nicolae Ceaușescu, the name refers to the ancient province of Dacia, being part of the nationalist ideology promoted by the state in the 1970s and 1980s. (\"see National Communism in Romania\"). \n\nThe competitions were organized starting 1977 in all companies, schools, universities, military units, communes, cities and counties, in two editions: summer (March-October) and winter (November-February), with finals every two years. The Daciad promoted sports at a school level and the organization of competitions for all age categories, which encouraged school-children to practice sports and become part of the selection pool for various sports. \n\nUnder the name of the Daciad, the state built gyms, sport venues, as well as company and county-level clubs. Even today, many of the sport venues and sports complexes in use in Romania date from that period.\n\nA number of Romanian champions and Olympic medal winners, including Nicu Vlad, Traian Cihărean (weightlifting), Maricica Puică, Ella Kovacs, Alina Astafei, Paula Ivan (athletes), Sanda Toma (canoe), Vasile Pușcașu (judo) first competed and were discovered during the Daciads.\n\nIn 2013, Minister of Youth and Sports Nicolae Bănicioiu announced that he intends to revive the Daciad to encourage young people to practice sports.\n"}
{"id": "1203555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1203555", "title": "Democratic Alliance of Hungarians in Romania", "text": "Democratic Alliance of Hungarians in Romania\n\nThe Democratic Alliance of Hungarians in Romania (DAHR, ; ) is a political party in Romania representing the Hungarian minority of Romania.\n\nOfficially considering itself a federation of minority interests rather than a party, from the 1990 general elections onwards the UDMR has had parliamentary representation in the Romanian Senate and Chamber of Deputies. From 1996 onwards UDMR has been a junior coalition partner in several governments.\n\nThe party is a member of the European People's Party and Centrist Democrat International.\n\nThe UDMR was founded on 25 December 1989, immediately after the fall of the Communist dictatorship in the Romanian Revolution of 1989 to represent in public the interests of the Hungarian community of Romania. Its first president was the writer Géza Domokos.\n\nThe UDMR obtained consistent results during the 1990, 1992, 1996, 2000, 2004, 2008 and the 2012 elections, gaining representation in both houses of the Parliament, until 1996, the UDMR acted in opposition. From 1996 the party governed in a coalition with the Romanian Democratic Convention (Convenţia Democrată Română, CDR)—a wide centre-right alliance that won the elections that year—and obtained some positions in the government of Victor Ciorbea.\n\nFour years later, the opposition party, the Social Democratic Party of Romania (PSD) won the 2000 elections. Although the UDMR did not join the new government as a coalition partner, it did sign a series of annual contracts with the PSD in which the PSD pledged to implement certain legal rights for the Hungarian minority community in return for UDMR's support in parliament.\nIn the 2004 elections, the UDMR made an alliance to back Adrian Năstase of the Social Democratic Party, who was the favourite to win the presidential elections, but the surprise victory of Traian Băsescu rocked the Romanian political spectrum. After negotiations, the UDMR, together with the Romanian Humanist Party (later to become the Conservative Party), defected from the PSD alliance and pledged to form a coalition with the Justice and Truth Alliance. The UDMR obtained positions in the government. After the 2008 legislative elections UDMR entered in opposition. In 2009, after the adoption of a motion of no confidence against the Emil Boc’s left and right grand coalition government, the UDMR became part of the new Emil Boc Cabinet, and continued after Emil Boc’s resignation as junior coalition partner of the Mihai Razvan Ungureanu Cabinet together with the PDL and UNPR. In 2012 the Romanian Parliament voted a motion of no confidence against the Ungureanu Cabinet. After the formation of the Social Liberal Union (USL) government led by Victor Ponta, the UDMR entered the opposition. After the 2012 elections the same parties continued to form a government under the leadership of Victor Ponta. In 2014 the liberal part of the party coalition left the government, while the UDMR, PC and UNPR joined the new government. The UDMR left the government in December 2014, shortly after the landslide victory of Klaus Iohannis as President of Romania. Since 2014 the UDMR is in opposition.\n\nUDMR is not a legally registered political party, but takes part in elections under art. 4(2) of the Law 68/1992 which assimilates organizations representing national minorities to political parties from an electoral point of view. UDMR is an \"alliance\" of the ethnic Hungarian community in Romania, which incorporates several platforms of different ideologies, social, scientific, cultural or professional groups as associated organizations, youth and women organisations. The UDMR represents the Magyar (ethnic Hungarian) community of Romania (1,237,746 citizens, according to the 2011 census). Hungarians represent 18.9% of the total population of Transylvania; in Szeklerland (Harghita, Covasna and part of Mureș counties) they form the majority. The overwhelming majority (99%) of the Hungarian population of Romania lives in Transylvanian counties (Arad, Bistriţa-năsăud, Bihor, Brașov, Alba, Harghita, Hunedoara, Cluj, Covasna, Caraș-Severin, Maramureș, Mureș, Satu Mare, Sibiu, Sălaj, Timiș). In national elections, the Alliance consistently obtains around 6% of the votes, which roughly corresponds to the percentage of ethnic Hungarian voters (6,5%).\n\nThe organization's president is Hunor Kelemen, elected at a party congress in 2011. Béla Markó, a writer, had held the position from 1993. He in turn was preceded by founding president Géza Domokos, in office from 1990 to 1993.\n\nThe UDMR is structured into 22 territorial organizations, covering all regions of Transylvania, the capital Bucharest, several counties outside Transylvania, as well as platforms representing different political ideologies (Christian Democratic, Socialist, Liberal, National Liberal). It has several associated partners and groups representing the civil society, or the social, scientific, artistic or professional domains. As decision-making bodies, the UDMR operates the Congress, the Council of Representatives, the Permanent Council and the Presidency The executive presidency is the executive body of the alliance. The consulting bodies of the alliance are: the Consulting Council of Regional Presidents, the Consulting Council of Platforms and the National Council of Self-governments. The bodies credited with controlling are the Regulation Control Committee, the Ethics and Disciplinary Committee. In addition, the President regularly convenes other consultative bodies such as the Economic Council and the Foreign Council.\n\nAs an ethnic minority organization representing the Romanian Magyars the UDMR, above all, concerns itself with Hungarian minority rights, including cultural and territorial autonomy.\n\nThe most important objectives of the UDMR are the preservation and development of the Hungarian community in Transylvania, the achievement of the different types of autonomy: cultural autonomy for the smaller and most vulnerable communities and the territorial autonomy and self-determination for those living in large majority area. The use of the mother tongue in all segments of private and public life, the education in mother tongue, the administration of all establishments in the area of minority education and culture are the most important elements of the daily struggle of the UDMR.\n\nThe alliance has undertaken the task of representing the interests of the Hungarian community of Romania in Romanian and European politics as well. Ever since its establishment, the formation supported the necessity of a united political life, one single voice, that expresses the goals of the Hungarian minority in Romania.This is based on the principle that, as a minority, the Transylvanian Hungarian community should politically be represented by a single, united organization that would offer a framework for varied ideologies and not by various political parties. The UDMR seeks to establish equal to equal relations with Romanian and European political actors expecting their support in pursuing the goals of the Hungarian community.The UDMR is convinced the Hungarian community in Romania is the only entity entitled to make decisions concerning the Hungarian community in Romania.\n\nThe UDMR focuses on cooperation and dialogue with the majority. Participating in the governing coalition is important as the alliance can greatly contribute through governmental means to the improvement of the life of the Hungarian community in Romania. The presence and role in the Romanian government of the UDMR protects the status and future of ethnic minorities in Romania and safeguards their evolution. The presence of the UDMR in the Romanian government is not limited to benefits in the field of Romanian politics: the fact bears an important message for states in the vicinity of Hungary, where ethical issues have lately appeared to be increasingly problematic. Since 1999 the UDMR has been a member of the European People's Party (EPP), and since 1991 it is member of the Federal Union of European Nationalities (FUEN).\n\nVarious specific goals, gradually detailed during the years, include:\n\n\nThe UDMR leaders have claimed on several occasions that they believe local autonomy (decentralization) to be the most appropriate and efficient form of self-government. However, the UDMR has also stated that it wishes to achieve this goal only through a dialogue and consensus with the Romanian majority, and based on proven Western European models.\n\nThe UDMR has been criticized on several occasions for its lack of specific doctrine. The main argument for preserving the current structure is that if it split up into smaller fractions of different ideological orientations, it would be impossible for the Hungarian community to obtain more seats in the Parliament (one single seat is allocated to each minority group by default) due to the electoral threshold of 5%.\n\nSeveral voices from within the UDMR and the Hungarian community have criticized it for being too moderate, and making too many compromises in political treaties with other Romanian parties. The Hungarian Civic Alliance, formed by Hungarians against the UDMR, and the Hungarian People’s Party from Transylvania formed by former members of the UDMR aimed to form separate, more radical, political entities. However, during the 2004 and 2008 elections, the UDMR has proved to still have the support of the overwhelming majority of Hungarians. Disputes with this fraction-group led to the departure of László Tőkés (who was in support of the break-away group) from the position of honorary president. In 2009 László Tőkés joined, as frontrunner, the Hungarian Unity list for the European Parliamentary elections in Romania, but as elected Member of the European Parliament, he became an independent politician and resigned from his UDMR membership.\n\n1989-1999\n\n2000 – 2004\n\n2004 – 2008 \n\n2010\n\n2011\n\n2012 - 2013\n\n supporting a minority PSD government \n\n"}
{"id": "21922291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21922291", "title": "Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (South Africa)", "text": "Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (South Africa)\n\nThe Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries is one of the departments of the South African government. It is responsible for overseeing and supporting South Africa's agricultural sector, as well as ensuring access to sufficient, safe and nutritious food by the country's population.\n\nThe department falls under the responsibility of the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries; this is Senzeni Zokwana.\n\nIn the 2014 national budget, the department received an appropriation of R6,178 billion rand, and had 5,924 employees as of 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "42111721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42111721", "title": "Emily Wheelock Reed", "text": "Emily Wheelock Reed\n\nEmily Wheelock Reed (1910 – May 19, 2000) was a librarian and civil rights activist. Reed is best known for her work as director of the Alabama Public Library Service Division in Alabama during the Civil Rights Movement, at which time she defended the 1958 Garth Williams children's book, \"The Rabbits' Wedding\".\n\nEmily Wheelock Reed was born in Asheville, North Carolina in 1910. A year following her birth, her family moved to the Midwest, where she was raised and educated in Indiana. She received her undergraduate degree from Indiana University, where she was a member of Phi Beta Kappa. She completed her library degree at University of Michigan.\n\nOver the span of her career, Reed worked in various librarian capacities for numerous public and academic libraries including the University of Michigan, Florida State University, the Detroit Public Library, Hawaii State Public Library System in Kauai County, the State Library of Louisiana, Alabama Public Library Service Division, the District of Columbia Public Library System, and the Enoch Pratt Free Library in Baltimore.\n\nIn 1957, Reed was appointed Director of the Alabama Public Library Service Division. In this role, she made budget requests to the legislature, and was responsible for selections and purchases of library materials across the state. Soon after she assumed the position, Reed found herself at odds with state politicians.\n\nIn 1959, segregationist Alabama citizens and legislators, led by Senator Edward Oswell Eddins and the White Citizens' Council, started intense attack efforts against the 1958 Garth Williams children's book, \"The Rabbits' Wedding\". The picture book, aimed towards children aged 3 to 7, depicted animals in a moonlit forest attending the wedding of a white rabbit to a black rabbit. Due to this content, the book was accused of promoting racial integration and interracial marriage, and demands were made to ban it from public library shelves. Eddins went so far as to suggest that \"this book and many others should be taken off the shelves and burned\".\n\nReed reviewed the book and, finding no objectionable content, determined it was her ethical duty to defend the book against an outright ban. Reed did not personally see the book as controversial and had not sought conflict by its inclusion in the library collections. If it was to be seen as pro-integration, however, Reed argued that it was the library agency's responsibility to provide balanced information regarding racial integration. Rather than remove the book from all library agency collections, Reed made the concession to have it placed on special reserve shelves where it would remain available to the interested public. Libraries with their own copies, not provided by the library agency, were not affected and could keep the book on the shelves. Eddins was not pleased with this course of action and continued to challenge Reed, going so far as to threatening to stop approval of her budget, bringing her before the Alabama legislature for questioning, and demanding her resignation. Rather than give in to threats and intimidation, Reed held her ground and the book remained in Alabama libraries. Later in that same year, she again angered segregationists when she distributed a reading list including other controversial titles such as Martin Luther King, Jr.'s book, \"Stride Toward Freedom: The Montgomery Story\".\n\nIn 1960, Reed left Alabama to become coordinator of adult services for the District of Columbia Library System. Six years later, she became director of adult services at the Enoch Pratt Free Library in Baltimore, Maryland, a position she held until her retirement in 1977.\n\nReed died on May 19, 2000 at her retirement community in Cockeysville, Maryland.\n\nDuring the time of \"The Rabbits' Wedding\" controversy, the American Library Association (ALA) remained silent on the issue and provided Reed no immediate assistance. Over time, however, the ALA has become much more outspoken and firmly committed to protecting intellectual freedom. To this end, Reed was awarded with the Freedom to Read Foundation Roll of Honor award in July 2000, a month after her death.\n\nThe story of \"The Rabbits' Wedding\" controversy was given dramatic treatment in a new play by Kenneth Jones, entitled \"Alabama Story\". The play was given its first major reading in May 2013 as part of the Southern Writers' Project at Alabama Shakespeare Festival. Following further readings in Salt Lake City and New York City, \"Alabama Story\" received its world premiere at Pioneer Theatre Company, January 9–24, 2015, earning enthusiastic reviews. Garth Williams, Emily Reed and Senator E.W. Higgins (inspired by Senator E.O. Eddins) are major characters in the six-actor play,\nwhich the playwright sets in \"the Deep South of the Imagination.\" The play was a finalist in the 2014 National Playwrights Conference of the Eugene O'Neill Theatre Center and was a 2016 nominee for the Steinberg/American Theatre Critics Association New Play Award. Its second American staging was produced in Spring 2016 by Florida Studio Theatre in Sarasota, Florida. FST artistic director Richard Hopkins called it \"probably the best Southern play I’ve read in 10 or 20 years.” It had five regional productions in 2016, and will have at least four in the 2017-18 season. \n"}
{"id": "10690131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10690131", "title": "Etta Palm d'Aelders", "text": "Etta Palm d'Aelders\n\nEtta Lubina Johanna Palm d'Aelders (April 1743 – 28 March 1799) was a Dutch feminist outspoken during the French Revolution. She gave the address \"Discourse on the Injustice of the Laws in Favour of Men, at the Expense of Women\" to the French National Convention on 30 December 1790.\n\nEtta Aelders was the daughter of Jacob Aelders van Nieuwenhuys, a merchant, and Agatha Petronella de Sitter. She was born in Groningen and received a good education, which was remarkable for a girl in her age in a non-aristocratic family. She married Christiaan Ferdinand Lodewijk Palm, the son of an attorney, in 1762. The marriage was not happy and Christiaan disappeared to the East Indies.\n\nIn 1768 she traveled with Jan Munniks, a young attorney, brother of the celebrated professor of botany Wynoldus Munniks, who had been appointed consul at Messina for the Dutch Republic to France, where she stayed behind because of illness. On the way she met Douwe Sirtema van Grovestins, a former equerry to the widow of Stadtholder William IV, Prince of Orange, who became her lover, and introduced her in higher circles. She left him in 1773 and moved to Paris, where she settled in the Palais Royal area, and became a courtesan for the better classes, taking a number of lovers. In these circumstances she was recruited for the French secret service, possibly by Jean-Frédéric Phélypeaux, comte de Maurepas himself. He sent her to The Hague in 1778 for a short mission, where she again met Jan Munniks, who himself now was a spy in British service.\n\nThe financial revenues of this mission enabled her to move to a grander house at the Rue Favard in Paris, where she set up a \"salon\", where many \"political\" people met. From this time dates her affectation of the title of \"baroness.\" Among these people were Dutchmen like Gerard Brantsen, who negotiated the peace between the Republic and Austria in Paris in 1784, and Apollonius Jan Cornelis Lampsins, a prominent Patriot, who sought refuge in France in 1787. Around this time she apparently started working for the Dutch Grand Pensionary Laurens Pieter van de Spiegel, to whom she became especially valuable after the events of 14 July 1789, when her \"salon\" was frequented by prominent revolutionaries like Jean-Paul Marat, François Chabot and Claude Basire.\n\nEtta now became involved in revolutionary politics, and she was especially active in feminist circles, like the \"Société fraternelle de l'un et l'autre sexe\", \"Société Patriotique des Amis de la Vérité \", and \"Société Patriotique et de Bienfaisance des Amies de la Vérité \"..\n\nShe set up shop in The Hague where she now spied on French émigrés like Beaumarchais and Dumouriez. However, events in France forced her to change sides again and she imposed on the Stadtholder himself, referring to her old services. Then in early 1795 the French revolutionary armies invaded the Netherlands. The Batavian Republic was proclaimed and Etta became suspect, because she tried to persuade the French representatives at the negotiations for the Treaty of The Hague (1795) to use the right of conquest to the detriment of the new Republic. These machinations, in cohorts with her old acquaintance Jan Munniks, brought her to the attention of the Hague \"Comité van Waakzaamheid\" (the Dutch equivalent of the French \"Comité de surveillance révolutionnaire\"). Munniks was sentenced to banishment, and Etta was put under arrest in the fortress of Woerden together with her old spymaster Van de Spiegel. She was released at the end of 1798, but her health had suffered so much, that she died the following March.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "196454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=196454", "title": "Freedom Award", "text": "Freedom Award\n\nThe International Rescue Committee (IRC) bestows its Freedom Award for extraordinary contributions to the cause of refugees and human freedom. According to the IRC, \"The Freedom Award reveals the remarkable ability of an individual to shape history and change for the better a world moving toward freedom for all.\"\n\nThe IRC was founded in 1933 at the request of Albert Einstein, and made its first Freedom Award in 1957, to German politician Willy Brandt, who went on to win the Nobel Peace Prize. The following year, the award was presented to Winston Churchill, British prime minister during the Second World War, for his \"dedicated and devoted service to the cause of human liberty\". The first joint recipients of the award were Lane Kirkland and his wife Irena who won the prize in 1981. Lane was honored for his \"long devotion to the cause of refugees\" while Irena was described as \"very much a human rights activist\". Chinese dissidents Li Shuxian and Fang Lizhi were jointly honored in 1991; two American Presidents, George H.W. Bush and Bill Clinton took the prize as a pair in 2005, and film actress Angelina Jolie and United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees High Commissioner António Guterres received the award together in 2007.\n\nSince the first award presentation in 1957, the IRC has made it to 46 recipients, 24 of which were American; the majority of awards have been to politicians. The 1995 presentation was made \"in absentia\" to Burmese pro-democracy campaigner and leader of the opposition National League for Democracy (NLD) party, Aung San Suu Kyi. The 2011 award ceremony was held in New York City, at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel in November, where the presentation was made to the Brokaw family. In 2012, John C. Whitehead received the prize for a second time, the only person to do so.\n"}
{"id": "2048999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2048999", "title": "French Community", "text": "French Community\n\nThe French Community () was an association of former French colonies, mostly from Africa. In 1958 it replaced the French Union, which had itself succeeded the French colonial empire in 1946.\n\nThe Community had a short lifespan because, while the Africans did not refuse it, they refrained from giving it real life. Under the appearance of equality, the constitution of the Community restricted the sovereignty of the twelve new African states, and reaffirmed the preeminence of France, by placing in the \"domaine commun\" fundamental sectors — such as foreign affairs, defence, the currency, economic policies and control of raw materials — all sectors that a genuine state wishes to control.\n\nThe constitution of the Fifth Republic, which created the French Community, was a consequence of the war in Algeria. Under the 1948 French Union there was said to be no French colonies, but metropolitan France, the overseas departments, and the overseas territories would instead constitute a single French Union, or just one France. In reality, the colonies had little power, with all power remaining centralized in the French Parliament.\n\nOn January 31, 1956, an enabling law changed the system, abandoning assimilation in favor of autonomy, to allow territories to develop their own local government and eventually gain their independence. This was an attempt to quell the concerns over Algerian independence. However, this did not stop the demands for independence. The 1 million French colonists in Algeria were determined to resist any possible Algerian independence, and they made massive demonstrations in Algiers on 13 May 1958. The trouble, which threatened to become a civil war, provoked a political crisis in France and caused the end of the Fourth Republic. General Charles de Gaulle was recalled to power and a new constitution was written. Initially De Gaulle seemed to confirm the Algerian settlers' hopes that he would help them, ending a speech to them with the cry \"Vive l'Algérie française !\", but privately he indicated that he did not have any intention of maintaining control of 9 million Algerians for the benefit of one million settlers. This attitude was manifest in the new constitution, which provided for the right of the overseas territories to request complete independence.\n\nOn 28 September 1958 a referendum was held throughout the French Union and the new constitution was approved, by universal suffrage, in all of the territories except French Guinea, which voted instead for the option of complete independence. Under this new constitution, the French Union was replaced by the French Community and France was now a federation of states with their own self-government.\n\nThe territorial assemblies of the remaining overseas territories were then allowed four months, dating from the promulgation of the constitution, i.e. until 4 February 1959, to select one of the following options in accordance with articles 76 and 91 of the constitution:\n\nNone of the overseas territories opted to become overseas departments. The overseas territories of the Comoro Islands, French Polynesia, French Somaliland, New Caledonia, and St Pierre and Miquelon opted to maintain their status, while Chad, French Dahomey, French Sudan, Ivory Coast, Madagascar, Mauritania, Middle Congo, Niger, Senegal, Ubangi-Shari, and Upper Volta chose to become states of the French Community, some of them changing their names in the process.\n\nBy early 1959, the members of the French Community were as follows:\n\nAlthough there was only one \"citizenship of the Community\", the territories that became Community member states did not form part of the French Republic, and were granted broad autonomy. They had their own constitutions and could create unions among themselves. The Community's jurisdiction as a whole was limited to foreign policy, defence, the currency, a common economic and financial policy and policy on strategic matters and, except for special agreements, control of justice, higher education, external and public transport and telecommunications. Agreements of Association could also be made by the Community with other states.\n\nAssociated with the Community were the United Nations trust territories of French Cameroun and French Togoland, and the Anglo-French condominium of the New Hebrides.\n\nArticle 91 of the constitution stipulated that the institutions of the Community were to be established by 4 April 1959.\nThese were as follows:\n\nThe President of the Community was the President of the French Republic. The member states also participated with his election and he was represented in each state by a High Commissioner. During 1958 President de Gaulle was elected by an absolute majority in all the states. To promote autonomy within France, Gaulle gave autonomy to the colonies so that they would stay within the community.\n\nThe Executive Council of the Community met several times a year, in one or other of the capitals, on the summons of the President, who assumed direction of the meeting. It was composed of the chiefs of the governments of the different states and the ministers responsible for common affairs.\n\nThe Senate of the Community was composed of members of the local assemblies designated by them in numbers proportional to the population of the state. This body was functionally powerless, and after holding two sessions it was abolished during March 1961.\n\nA Community Court of Arbitration, composed of seven judges nominated by the President, gave decisions in disputes between member states.\n\nBecause France did not want to become 'a colony of its colonies', African countries did not compose a majority voting bloc and were required functionally to join with French parties in order to gain voting power.\n\nThe Communauté initially assumed close cooperation between member states and the French government. The French government was responsible for security and to some degree policing in all states. A number of African presidents were present—symbolizing, for continental anti-colonialists, their complicity—at \"Gerboise Bleue\", France's first nuclear test, which occurred on 4 February 1960 near Reggane in the Sahara Desert of central Algeria.\n\nAmong the states, the Community as assumed originally functioned only during 1959 when six sessions of the executive council were held in various capitals. Immediately after the sixth session, held in Dakar during December, President de Gaulle agreed to Mali's claim for national sovereignty, thus beginning the process of all of the states being granted independence during 1960. On 4 June 1960, articles 85 and 86 were amended by Constitutional Act No. 60-525, allowing the member states to become fully independent, either still as members of the Community or not. This amendment also allowed for a state that was already fully independent to join the Community without losing its independence; .\nBy 1961, only the Central African Republic, Chad, Congo, Gabon, the Malagasy Republic and Senegal still belonged to the Community. The constitutional bodies no longer continued to function and the term 'president of the community' disappeared from official statements. It seemed that the only remaining differences between those states that were members of the community, and those that had left it, was the fact that the diplomatic representatives in Paris of the former had the title \"high commissioner\", and those of the latter 'ambassador'. Moreover, the second title tended to be used in all cases without distinction.\n\nAlthough the French Community had almost ceased to exist as an institution by the early 1960s, the remaining members never formally withdrew and the relevant articles were not eliminated from the French Constitution until they were finally abrogated by Constitutional Act number 95-880 of 4 August 1995.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11053386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11053386", "title": "French constitutional referendum, 1969", "text": "French constitutional referendum, 1969\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in France on 27 April 1969. The reforms would have led to government decentralization and changes to the Senate. It was rejected by 52.4% of voters, and failure of the amendments led to President Charles de Gaulle's resignation.\n\nThe first part of the project aimed to classify the existence of Regions in the constitution as Territorial Collectivities. That would affect the regional \"circonscriptions\" created in 1960, and Corsica.\n\nThe Region's jurisdiction would be enlarged, primarily with taking control of public utilities, housing and urbanization. In order to exercise these new powers, the Region would be able to borrow money, enter into contracts, create, manage or grant public organizations and enter into agreements with other Regions.\n\nThe Regional Councils would be composed of:\n\n\nSpecial arrangements would be taken for the Parisian Region, Corsica and the overseas departments.\n\nThe second part of the project would combine the Senate and the Economic, Social and Environmental Council into one new senate having a consultative function and no blocking power.\nThe necessity of a second consultative house representing the territorial collectivities and economic, familial and intellectual organizations had been announced by de Gaulle in his Bayeux speech, on 16 June 1946, and mentioned again during his and to Alain Peyrefitte.\nThe main changes in the role of the senate would be the following:\n\n\nSenators would be elected for six years, with elections held for half the house every three years (as has been the case since 2003). They would have to be over twenty-three, rather than the then minimum age of thirty-five.\n\nThe senate's composition would be the following:\n\n\nDe Gaulle announced that if the reforms were refused, he would resign. The opposition urged people to vote no, and the general was equally hindered by popular former right-wing prime minister Georges Pompidou, who would stand as a presidential candidate if de Gaulle were to leave, reducing the fear of a power vacuum felt by the right-wing Gaullist electorate. Also, former finance minister Valéry Giscard d'Estaing declared that he would not vote yes. Only the UDR campaigned for a yes.\n\nFollowing the referendum's failure, de Gaulle resigned on 28 April 1969, at ten past midnight, and released a laconic statement from Colombey-les-Deux-Églises:\n\nI cease to exercise my functions as president of the Republic. This decision will take effect today at midday.\n\nAlain Poher, president of the senate, became interim president of the Republic until the next elections, when Georges Pompidou came to power.\n"}
{"id": "4893539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4893539", "title": "Future interest", "text": "Future interest\n\nIn property law and real estate, a future interest is a legal right to property ownership that does not include the right to present possession or enjoyment of the property. Future interests are created on the formation of a defeasible estate; that is, an estate with a condition or event triggering transfer of possessory ownership. A common example is the landlord-tenant relationship. The landlord may own a house, but has no general right to enter it while it is being rented. The conditions triggering the transfer of possession, first to the tenant then back to the landlord, are usually detailed in a lease.\n\nAs a slightly more complicated example, suppose O is the owner of Blackacre. Consider what happens when O transfers the property, \"to A for life, then to B\". Person A acquires possession of Blackacre. Person B does not receive any right to possess Blackacre immediately; however, once person A dies, possession will fall to person B (or his estate, if he died before person A). Person B has a \"future\" interest in the property. In this example, the event triggering the transfer is person A's death.\n\nBecause they convey ownership rights, future interests can usually be sold, gifted, willed, or otherwise disposed of by the beneficiary (but see \"Vesting\" below). Because the rights vest in the future, any such disposition will occur before the beneficiary actually takes possession of the property.\n\nThere are five kinds of future interests recognized at common law: three in the transferor and two in the transferee.\n\nVesting means granting a person an immediate right to present or future enjoyment of property. In plain English, one has a right to a vested asset that cannot be taken away by any third party, even though one may not yet possess the asset. When the right, interest or title to the present or future possession of a legal estate can be transferred by its holder to any other party, it is termed a vested interest with respect to that holder.\n\nA vested interest may be one of three types:\n\nA person may divest themselves of, or alienate, only those interests that are \"guaranteed\" to vest. This rule aligns with the policy that a person should not be allowed to sell a thing that he or she does not own outright. Interests that are not guaranteed to vest are subject to the rule against perpetuities.\n\nA reversion occurs when a granted estate is absolutely vested in the grantor.\nReversion is not subject to the rule against perpetuities, because O's future interest is absolutely vested.\n\nThere is a possibility of reverter when an estate will return to the grantor if a condition is violated. The possibility of reverter can only follow a fee simple determinable.\nThis type of future interest can only follow the \"fee simple determinable\". The vesting of the future interest is determinable at the time of the grant, because reverter is automatic if the condition is broken—a possibility of reverter, therefore, is not subject to the Rule Against Perpetuities.\n\nThis type of future interest follows a \"fee simple subject to a condition subsequent\". A grantor has the power of termination when an estate may return to the grantor if a condition is violated \"and\" the grantor decides to reclaim the estate. This type of grant may occur when the grantor wants the option of deciding the severity of the violation.\nThis type of future interest follows a \"fee simple subject to a condition subsequent\". To see why, consider that in order to retain Blackacre, A must continue to perform under the terms of the grant (by not drinking). If A fails to \"not drink\", that condition will trigger the subsequent loss of A's rights in Blackacre.\n\nA remainder is a future interest in a third party that vests upon the natural conclusion of the grant to the original grantee. It is the interest in the property that is \"left over\", or remains, after the original grantee is finished possessing it. For example, O's grant \"to A for life, then to B\" creates a remainder in B. There are two types of remainders: vested and contingent.\n\nA vested remainder is created when property is granted to both a direct grantee and a named third party, and is not subject to a condition precedent to the third party taking possession.\n\n\nNote: a different result would be reached if the grant was \"O to A for life, then to B if B \"has married\" C\". In this case, B could marry C to obtain a fully vested interest, then divorce C without affecting his rights to Blackacre.\n\nA contingent remainder is created when a remainder cannot fully vest at the time of granting. This normally occurs in two situations:\n\nLegislatures and courts tend to prefer vested remainders over contingent remainders, to reduce uncertainty in ambiguous grants, and to speed up probate.\n\nAn executory interest is a future interest, held by a third party transferee (i.e. someone other than the grantee), which either cuts off another's interest or begins some time after the natural termination of a preceding estate. An executory interest vests upon any condition subsequent except the natural termination of the original grantee's rights. In other words, an executory interest is any future interest held by a third party that isn't a remainder.\n\nExecutory interests usually arise when a grantor gives property to one person, provided that they use it a certain way. If the person fails to use it properly, the property transfers to a third party. There are two different types of executory interests: shifting and springing. Executory limitations transferring ownership from the grantor to a third party are called \"springing executory interests\", and those that transfer from the grantee to a third party are called \"shifting executory interests\".\n\nA shifting executory interest cuts short someone other than the grantor. For example, if O conveys property \"To A, but if B returns from Florida within the next year, to B\"; here, B has a shifting executory interest, and A has a fee simple subject to this shifting executory interest. A shifting executory interest may be premised on any event, irrespective of whether that event is under the control of one party or the other, or if it is an external event under the control of neither party. For example, a conveyance \"To A, but if the property is ever used as a commercial dairy, to B\" would leave A in control of the condition; so long as A does not use the property in the proscribed manner it will remain hers. Conversely, a conveyance \"To A, but if B receives a law degree, to B\" places B entirely in control of the dispensation of the property; if B is able to fulfill the condition, B will get the property irrespective of what A does. Finally, the interest may shift based on a wholly external event, for example, \"To A, but if the Cleveland Browns win the Super Bowl, to B\".\n\nIf the conveyance to A is for a limited time, or for the life of A, then the condition triggering the executory interest must occur within that time, or the property will return to the grantor.\n\nA springing executory interest cuts short the grantor's own interest, in favor of the grantee. For example, O conveys to A for life, and one year after A’s death to B and his heirs. O will have a one-year interest, that will spring/be cut short one year after A's death, and will go to B, the grantee.\n\nSuppose B is 15 years old.\n\nThe grantor never retains an ultimate future interest when there is an executory condition present. If the executory condition is never met, the original grantee retains the interest, while if the condition is met, the interest transfers to a third party. However, the grantor may have a future possessory interest.\n\nExecutory interests are subject to the rule against perpetuities, which disqualifies any interest that can vest more than twenty-one years after the death of every party who was living at the time the interest was created. However, if all of the potential vesting beneficiaries are named, the rule will never be violated. Thus, a property can \"not\" be conveyed \"to A and her heirs, but if alcohol is consumed on the property, to B and his heirs\". Because A's heirs may hew to the condition for generations, causing a violation centuries after the condition was set down and creating chaos in efforts to shift title to the appropriate heirs of B.\n\nThird party beneficiaries of executory interests cannot alienate them, since the interests are contingent upon a condition subsequent, so the interest is not guaranteed to vest.\n\n"}
{"id": "13915509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13915509", "title": "Healthy development measurement tool", "text": "Healthy development measurement tool\n\nThe Healthy Development Measurement Tool (HDMT), developed by the San Francisco Department of Public Health, provides an approach for evaluating land-use planning and urban development with regards to the achievement of human health needs. The HDMT provides a set of baseline data on community health metrics for San Francisco and development targets to assess the extent to which urban development projects and plans can improve community health. The HDMT also provides a range of policy and design strategies that can advance health conditions and resources via the development process.\n\nIn the San Francisco Bay Area, between the mid- and late- 1990’s, the bustling information economy brought multitudes of young people to the Bay Area and Silicon Valley’s technology-inspired new economy. Housing was notoriously difficult to find, with vacancy rates at less than 2%. During this period, average rents increased by 30% and the cost to buy increased dramatically. Although the economic recession triggered by the dot-com bubble brought the city’s vacancy rates to pre-boom levels, the Bay Area continued to encounter pressure for new housing development due to extraordinary levels of unmet demand and its high profitability. This phenomenon occurred elsewhere in California and throughout the country, in both urban and suburban settings.\n\nHistorically, health inequities were associated with differences in health behaviors and health care access and utilization. Today, however, many believe that these inequities result from differences in access to the social, economic, and environmental resources necessary for health. Increasingly, inter-disciplinary research demonstrates that the root causes of disease and illness, as well as strategies to improve health and well-being are dependent on community design, land use, and transportation. Changes in societal conditions can affect many individuals simultaneously, and have broad and diverse impacts on multiple health outcomes.\n\nThe value of this tool is that it focuses on broadening the range of social, economic, and environmental resources needed for health on a population level. It does so by recognizing a range of resources needed for optimal health at the societal level and identifying measurable and actionable ways to meet those needs through urban development. It combines quantitative analysis of health indicators with a qualitative assessment of whether plans and projects meet tool development targets.\n\nSFDPH has recognized that it has a legitimate agency interest in integrating health considerations into land use decision-making. While SFDPH does not have formal decision-making authority regarding land use and development decisions, a number of drivers brought SFDPH to understand that it has a potentially important role. Drivers include:\nThe first driver for SFDPH to be involved in land use was that community groups were struggling with the pace of development in their neighborhoods. In addition, they were dissatisfied with the responsiveness of the Planning Department to address neighborhood needs and concerns, including displacement of existing residents and jobs, and an overall lack of infrastructure to support a complete neighborhood. Many groups called for community planning processes and specifically community, social, and economic impact assessments of land use changes to be conducted as part of or complementary to the environmental impact report required by CEQA.\n\nThe second driver was that SFDPH increasingly recognized that environmental health and justice issues in San Francisco had roots in land use and transportation planning decisions. For example, SFDPH environmental health inspectors frequently observed that families lived in housing conditions that caused a variety of health outcomes such as asthma and lead poisoning.\nHowever, because of the high costs associated with improving these conditions, landlords often would not take action. In addition, the high cost of housing made it difficult or families to leave their homes and find new places to live.\n\nCumulatively, SFDPH also observed the disproportionate share of unwanted land uses (such as power plants, sewage treatment facilities, substandard public housing, and poor public infrastructure) in places like Bayview/Hunters Point as contributing to significant disparities in life expectancy for residents. Finally, SFDPH also witnessed residential development in historically industrial areas generating noise, traffic emissions, and pedestrian hazards for residents and workers in these areas.\n\nThird, on a national scale, the public health and urban planning communities were increasingly calling attention to the connections between the built environment (that is, land use, transportation systems, and community design) and health, particularly focusing on the contribution of the land use patterns (for example, sprawl) to physical inactivity, pedestrian safety, and air quality. Findings illustrated that urban design and land use regulations could accomplish the complementary goals of preventing illness and ensuring environmental quality. For example, creating higher density, mixed-use developments closer to transit and job centers would enhance public safety, prevent motor-vehicle injuries, increase access to goods and services, encourage walking or bicycling, reduce air pollution, and limit global warming.\n\nFinally, on an international scale, public health practitioners were also developing methods and tools for Health Impact Assessment. The goal of HIA was to bring to light information on how diverse public policy decisions might affect health as well as the social and environmental resources required for good health. While HIA was novel in the United States, it presented a potential way to gain consideration more pro-actively of both root causes of poor health and community needs in the land use development process.\n\nBy 2001, SFDPH had already begun using HIA methods to increase the inclusion of health considerations in policy-making. In a study examining the health impacts of increasing the city’s living wage, SFDPH found that adoption of an increased living wage would result in decreases in the risk of premature death by 5% for adults 24–44 years of age in households whose current income was around $20,000. For the offspring of these workers, a living wage would result in an increase of a quarter of a year of completed education, a 34% increase in the odds of high school completion, and a 22% decrease in the risk of early childbirth.\n\nSFDPH also conducted exploratory workshops with community members on the health impacts of housing subsidies, farmers’ markets, and green schoolyards. In 2002, SFDPH began using HIA more specifically in local land use planning, policy making, and project review. For example, SFDPH conducted HIAs of:\n\nIn response to development pressures, many communities called on public health officials to evaluate the ensuing health impacts and to advocate for healthy environments. For this reason, the San Francisco Department of Public Health initiated the Eastern Neighborhoods Community Health Impact Assessment (ENCHIA) to analyze how development affects social determinants of health within several San Francisco neighborhoods.\n\nThe HDMT was created through collaboration among development stakeholders and public agencies in San Francisco as a result of the ENCHIA. The process was guided by the principles of \"health impact assessment\" and designed to act on growing scientific understanding that optimal health cannot be achieved by improving health services or individual behavior change alone, but requires advancing healthful neighborhood conditions. Such conditions include:\n\nFacilitated and staffed by SFDPH, the eighteen-month ENCHIA process was guided by a multi-stakeholder Community Council of over twenty diverse organizations including: \n\nThis tool is not a new form of environmental regulation or a set of enforceable standards. The tool does not mandate the achievement of specific development targets. Similar to tools such as Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED), this tool is intended to encourage voluntary efforts to improve health-oriented development.\n\nHDMT provides a systematic assessment approach to simultaneously consider effects of development on six overarching domains:\n\nThese six elements are divided into 27 objectives, which themselves are further divided into 107 measurable indicators. Most indicators are paired with specific, actionable development targets, usually as a benchmark and/or minimum. As of November 1, 2007, fourteen of these indicators are in process.\n\nThe San Francisco Planning Department has received and reviewed the HDMT and other ENCHIA products and has committed to using the indicators and development criteria, where possible, in screening the content of its Eastern Neighborhood plans.\n\nThis tool comprises a set of metrics to evaluate the extent to which urban development is meeting the needs of human health. \nMeasurable indicators and development targets provide information about both the positive and negative ways in which health is impacted by a proposed development project and focuses attention on ways that development can improve population health. By providing measures and criteria for development, it allows those involved in policy- and decision-making to make more informed choices between trade-offs. As a result, the tool may provide an additional means to support greater transparency in development processes.\n\nThis diagram depicts the relationship of many of the tool's components.\nThus far, SFDPH has applied the HDMT to evaluate San Francisco's Eastern neighborhoods. Pilot applications for smaller geographical areas are ongoing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21490852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21490852", "title": "Highland Clearances", "text": "Highland Clearances\n\nThe Highland Clearances ( , the \"eviction of the Gaels\") were the evictions of a significant number of tenants in the Scottish Highlands mostly during the 18th and 19th centuries. In the first phase, they usually resulted from enclosures of common lands and a change from farming to sheep rearing, largely carried out by hereditary landowners who previously had status as Scots Gaelic clan chiefs. Later clearances, in the second phase, involved overcrowded crofting communities that had lost the means to support themselves, through famine and/or collapse of industries that they had relied on (such as the kelp trade), as well as continuing population growth. The Clearances were a complex series of events occurring over more than a hundred years. A Highland Clearance has been defined as \"an enforced simultaneous eviction of all families living in a given area, such as an entire glen\".\n\nThe Clearances relied on the insecurity of tenure of most tenants under the Scottish legal system. There was no equivalent of the English system of copyhold, which provided a heritable tenancy for many English counterparts of the Scots who were cleared from their farms. \n\nThe enclosures in rural England in the British Agricultural Revolution started much earlier, during the Tudor period. Similar developments in Scotland have lately been called the Lowland Clearances by historians such as Tom Devine. But in the Highlands, the impact on a Goidelic (Scottish Gaelic)-speaking semi-feudal culture, which had included the fulfilment of obligations of a chief to his clan, led to vocal campaigning against the actions. \n\nSince their origin in the early middle ages, clans were the major social unit of the Highlands. They were headed by a clan chief, with members of his family taking positions of authority under him. The mechanisms of clanship gave protection and agricultural land to the clansmen, who in return paid with service and rent which was paid, especially in earlier periods, mostly in kind (as opposed to money). Service included military service when required. The Highlands was one of the parts of Scotland where law and order were not maintained by central government, hence the need for protection from a powerful leader.\n\nClan leaders controlled the agricultural land, with its distribution generally being achieved through leases to tacksmen, who sublet to the peasant farmers. The basic farming unit was the or township, consisting of a small number (anything from 4 to 20 or more) of families working arable land on the run rig management system, and grazing livestock on common land. Clans provided an effective business model for running the trade in black cattle: the clan gentry managed the collection of those beasts ready for sale and negotiated a price with lowland drovers for all the stock produced on the clan lands. The sale proceeds were offset against the rentals of the individual producers. The growth in the trade in cattle demonstrates the ability of pre-clearance Highland society to adapt to and exploit market opportunities - making clear that this was not an immutable social system.\n\nJames VI was one of the kings who sought to impose control on the Highlands. On becoming James I of England, the extra military force now available enabled him to do this. The Statutes of Iona controlled some key aspects - forcing the heirs of the wealthier Highlanders to be educated in the Lowlands and requiring clan chiefs to appear in front of the Privy Council in Edinburgh on an annual basis. This exposed the top layer of Highland society to the costs of living in Edinburgh in a manner fitting to their status. Unlike their Lowland counterparts, their lands were less productive and were not well integrated into the money economy. Large financial sureties were taken from clan leaders to guarantee the good behaviour of the clan. Overall, this had the effect of reducing the need for the protection provided by a clan whilst increasing the costs for the clan leaders. The clan chiefs who fully subscribed to this new system of regulation were rewarded with charters that formalised their ownership of clan lands. The combination of these initiated the demise of clanship. The process continued as clan chiefs began to think of themselves as landlords, rather than as patriarchs of their people.\n\nThe various intervals of warfare since the Statutes of Iona intermittently paused the steady transition to landlordism, because the ability to raise a band of fighting men at short notice became important again. So, the civil war that started in 1638 reinvigorated the military aspects. The restoration of Charles II in 1660 brought peace, but also increased taxes, restarting the financial pressure. The succession of Jacobite rebellions emphasised again the martial aspects of clanship, but the defeat at Culloden brought brought an end to any willingness to go to war again. The loss of heritable jurisdictions across Scotland emphasised the changed role of clan chiefs.\n\nA tacksman (a member of the , sometimes described as \"gentry\" in English) was the holder of a lease or \"tack\" from the landowner, subletting the land to lesser tenants. They were often related to the landowner, even if only distantly. They acted as the middle stratum of pre-clearance society, with a significant role in managing the Highland economy. \n\nThey were the first sector of society to feel the effect of the social and economic changes that included the Clearances, when landlords restricted their ability to sub-let, so increasing the rental income directly to the laird; simple rent increases were also applied. This was part of a slow phasing out of this role, with change gathering momentum from the 1770s, with the result that in the next century, tacksmen were a minor component of society. T. M. Devine describes \"the displacement of this class as one of the clearest demonstrations of the death of the old Gaelic society.\"\n\nMany emigrated to America, in the words of Eric Richards: \"often cocking a snook at the landlords as they departed\". Emigrating tacksmen, and the larger farmers who departed at the same time, represented not only a flight of capital from Gaeldom, but also a loss of entrepreneurial energy. In the opinion of T. M. Devine, tacksmen and the middle-ranked tenant farmers represented the economic backbone of the peasant communities of the Western Highlands. Those of them who emigrated were not refusing to participate in a commercial economy, rather they rejected the loss of status that the changes of improvement gave them.\n\nThe first phase of the Clearances occurred mostly over the period 1760 to 1815. However, it began before the Jacobite rebellion of 1745, with its roots in the decision of the Dukes of Argyll to put tacks (or leases) of farms and townships up for auction. This began with Campbell property in Kintyre in the 1710s and spread after 1737 to all their holdings.\n\nFirst phase clearances involved break up of the traditional townships (s), the essential element of land management in Scottish Gaeldom. These multiple tenant farms were most often managed by tacksmen. To replace this system, individual arable smallholdings or crofts were created, with shared access to common grazing. This process was often accompanied by movement of the people from the interior straths and glens to the coast, where they had employment in, for example, the kelp or fishing industries. Their former possessions were then converted into large sheep holdings. Essentially, therefore, this phase was characterised by relocation rather than outright expulsion.\n\nThe second phase of clearance started in 1815–20, continuing to the 1850s. It followed the collapse or stagnation of the wartime industries and continuing rise in population. These economic effects are illustrated by the contemporary commodity prices: kelp had been falling since 1810, in 1823 the market price in Liverpool was £9 a ton, which fell to £3 13s 4d a ton in 1828, 41% of the 1823 price. Wool prices also reduced over a similar period to a quarter of the price obtained in 1818, and black cattle nearly halved in price between 1810 and the 1830s.\n\nIn the second phase, landlords moved to the more draconian policy of expelling people from their estates. This was increasingly associated with 'compulsory emigration', in which landlords cancelled rent arrears and paid the passage of the 'redundant' families in their estates to North America and, eventually, Australia. The process reached a climax during the Highland Potato Famine of 1846–55.\n\nThe Highland Clearances were part of the Scottish Agricultural Revolution but happened later and over a shorter time span than the same process in the Scottish Lowlands, in England and, to a large extent, elsewhere in Europe. The growing cities of the Industrial Revolution presented an increased demand for food; land came to be seen as an asset to meet this need, and as a source of profit, rather than a means of support for its resident population.\n\nBefore improvement, Highland agriculture was based on run rig arable areas and common land for grazing. Those working in this system lived in townships or \"\". Under the run rig system, the open fields were divided into equivalent parts and these were allocated, once a year, to each of the occupiers, who then worked their land individually. With no individual leases or ownership of plots of such land, there was little incentive to improve it (for instance by drainage, or using crop rotation systems). Nor, with common grazing, could an individual owner improve the quality of his stock. Enclosure of the common lands and the run-rig fields was a method of improvement. More commonly, there was a greater change in land use: the replacement of mixed farming (in which cattle provided a cash crop) with large-scale sheep farming. In many cases, shepherds were recruited from outside the Highlands to manage these flocks, so the entire existing population were displaced to either crofts on the same estate, other land in the Highlands, industrial cities of Scotland or, more commonly in later clearances, to other countries.\n\nDifferent landowners decided to introduce the improvements that required clearance at different times and for different reasons. The common drivers of clearance are as follows:\n\nReplacement of the old-style peasant farming with a small number of well-capitalised sheep farmers allowed land to be let at much higher rents. It also had the advantage, for the landowner, that there were fewer tenants to collect rent from, thus reducing the administrative burden of the estate.\n\nIn some areas, land remained in arable use after clearance but was farmed with more intensive modern methods. Some of the earliest clearances had been to introduce large-scale cattle production. Some later clearances replaced agriculture with sporting estates stocked with deer. There were instances of an estate being first cleared for sheep and later being cleared again for deer. The major transition, however, was to pastoral agriculture based on sheep.\n\nThe most productive sheep were the Cheviot, allowing their owners to pay twice as much rent as if they had stocked with Blackfaces. The Cheviot's disadvantage was that it was less hardy and needed low-level land on which to overwinter. This was usually the old arable land of the evicted population, so the choice of sheep breed dictated the totality of clearance in any particular Highland location.\n\nSome of those carrying out clearances believed that this was for the benefit of those affected. Patrick Sellar, the factor (agent) of the Countess of Sutherland, was descended from a paternal grandfather who had been a cottar in Banffshire and had been cleared by an improving landlord. For the Sellars, this initiated a process of upward mobility (Patrick Sellar was a lawyer and a graduate of Edinburgh University), which Sellar took to be a moral tale that demonstrated the benefits to those forced to make a new start after eviction.\n\nThe provision of new accommodation for cleared tenants was often part of a planned piece of social engineering; a large example of this was the Sutherland Clearances, in which farming tenants in the interior were moved to crofts in coastal regions. The intent was that the land allotted to them would not be enough to provide all of their needs, and they would need to seek employment in industries like fishing or as seasonal itinerant farm labourers. The loss of status from tenant farmer to crofter was one of the reasons for the resentment of the Clearances.\n\nThe planned acts of social engineering needed investment. This money often originated from fortunes earned outside Scotland, whether from the great wealth of Sir James Matheson (the second son of a Sutherland tacksman, who returned from the Far East with a spectacular fortune), the more ordinary profits from Empire of other returning Scots, or English industrialists attracted by lower land values in Scotland. Large amounts of capital were used to start industrial and commercial enterprises or build infrastructure like roads, bridges and harbours, but the return on this capital was very low by contemporary standards. This wasted investment is described by Eric Richards as \"a loss to the national economy to be set beside any gains to be tallied.\"\n\nSome of this expenditure was used to build new towns, such as Bettyhill, which received tenants cleared from Strathnaver. This displacement has been compared to the movement of Glaswegians to Castlemilk in the 1950s – with a similar distance from the original settlement and a comparable level of overall failure of the project to produce the anticipated social benefits.\n\nIn the second phase of the clearances, when population reduction was the primary intention, the actions of landlords can be viewed as the crudest type of social engineering with a very limited understanding of the likely consequences.\n\nThe kelp trade was badly affected by the end of the Napoleonic Wars in 1815 and had collapsed totally by 1820. Kelp (or seaweed) was harvested from the seashore at low tide, dried and burnt to yield an alkali extract used in the manufacture of soap and glass. It was a very labour-intensive industry. Production had steadily grown from the 1730s to a peak level in 1810, and was mostly located in the Hebrides. The end of war reintroduced competition from Spanish barilla, a cheaper and richer product. This, combined with the reduction of duty on the foreign import, and the discovery that cheaper alkali could be extracted from common salt, destroyed the seasonal employment of an estimated 25 to 40 thousand crofters. There was little prospect of alternative employment; the only possibility was fishing, which was also in decline at the same time.\n\nThe overall population of the Western Isles had grown by 80 percent between 1755 and 1821. The economic collapse of an industry that was a major employer in a greatly over-populated region had an inevitable result. Not only did the level of poverty increase in the general population, but many landlords, failing to make prompt adjustments to their catastrophic fall in income, descended into debt and bankruptcy.\n\nThe Highlands, as an agriculturally marginal area, was the last part of mainland Britain to remain at risk of famine, with notable instances before the 19th century in 1680, 1688, the 1690s, 1740–1, 1756 and 1782–3. The history of the trade in meal suggests that the region balanced this import with exporting cattle, leading to a substantial reliance on trade for survival that was greater than anywhere else in Britain.\n\nThere was near-contemporaneous dispute as to the severity of famines in the pre-clearance Highlands: in 1845, the Sutherland estate management argued over the level of famine relief that had been needed in the past, including this opinion: \"The cattle on Sutherland were that Spring dying from scarcity of provender... and this is the condition to which your morbid Philanthropists of the present day refer as the days of comfort for the wretched Highlanders.\" (11 June 1845 letter to James Loch). Even accepting the level of debate on the subject among historians and the incomplete body of evidence, there is a clear case that, for example, pre-clearance Strathnaver (in Sutherland) experienced recurrent famine in a society operating at the margin of subsistence.\n\nCrofting communities became more common in the early part of the 19th century. Particularly in the West Highlands and the Isles, the residents of these small agricultural plots were reliant on potatoes for at least three quarters of their diet. Until 1750, potatoes had been relatively uncommon in the Highlands. With a crop yield four times higher than oats, they became an integral part of crofting. After partial crop failures in 1836 and 1837, a severe outbreak of potato blight arrived in Scotland in 1846. This introduced famine of a much greater scale and duration than anything previously experienced. By the end of the year, the north-west Highlands and the Hebrides had serious food shortages, with an estimated three quarters of the population with nothing to eat.\n\nThe Irish potato famine had struck a year earlier, and Ireland's misfortune created a philanthropic awareness that meant that the relief effort could be quickly mobilised for the Highlands before large numbers of people had died. The richer landlords were able to fund their own famine relief for their tenants. Others, though, were bankrupted by buying the necessary food. Conversely, some landlords were criticised for using the voluntarily raised relief funds to avoid supporting their tenants through the crisis.\n\nThe Highland Potato Famine started to ease in the first half of the 1850s, but the years of famine had taken their toll. Beyond the human impact, the financial effect on landlords was overwhelming. Rental income was reduced whilst expenditure rose. With such an obvious disaster in front of them, some sold their estates, while others realised they needed a stricter level of management, often leading to clearance. Others went bankrupt.\n\nMany Highland landlords were in debt, despite rising commodity prices and the associated farm incomes which allowed higher rents to be charged. Much of this was due to profligate spending. The landed classes of the Highlands socialised with southern landowners, who had more diverse sources of income, such as mineral royalties and windfall income from urban expansion. The low productivity of Highland lands made this a financial trap for their owners. In other cases, spending on famine relief depleted the financial resources of landowners – so even the prudent and responsible could ultimately be forced to increase the income from their estates. Lastly, investments in an estate, whether on roads, drainage, enclosure or other improvements might not realise the anticipated returns. The major financial pressure, though, was the end of the Napoleonic War, which had supported high prices for the small range of commodities produced in the Highlands.\n\nThe extent of indebtedness among Highland landowners was enormous. The evidence of this is the very high number of hereditary lands that were sold, especially in the first half of the 19th century. T. M. Devine describes this as a \"financial suicide\" by an entire class of people. Debt was not a new problem for Highland landowners in the 19th century – it had been equally prevalent in the 17th and 18th. The change was in the lender. The further development of the banking system at the beginning of the 19th century meant that landowners did not need to look to family members or neighbours as a source of finance. The downside to this was a greater readiness of the lender to foreclose – and an increased willingness to lend in the first place, perhaps unwisely.\n\nDebt had three possible consequences, all of which were likely to involve the eviction of tenants. The landlord could try and avoid bankruptcy by introducing immediate improvements, putting up rents, clearing tenants to allow higher-paying sheep farmers to be installed. Alternatively, the estate could be sold to wipe out the debts. A new owner was highly likely to have plans for improvement which would include clearance. They also had the money to fund assisted passages for cleared tenants to emigrate, so putting into practice ideas suggested in the 1820s and 1830s. As most purchasers were from outside the Highlands or from England, they neither understood nor followed the Gaelic principle of \"\", so removing a potential level of protection for tenants. Finally, the landlord might enter bankruptcy, with the estate passing into the hands of administrators whose legal obligation was to protect the financial interests of the creditors. This last case was often the worst outcome for tenants.\n\nThe 18th century was a time of population growth, almost continuous from the 1770s onwards. This was not seen as a problem by landlords as people were considered to be an asset – both to provide a pool for military recruitment and as an economic resource. Landowners and the government sought to discourage emigration, an attitude that resulted in the Passenger Vessels Act of 1803, which was intended to limit the ability of people to emigrate.\n\nThe role of the Highlands in providing a source of recruitment for the army and navy was, in the words of T M Devine, \"quite remarkable\". Starting in the Seven Years' War (1756–63) and increasing during the American Revolution, by the time of the Napoleonic Wars, one estimate put the Highland contribution to regiments of the line, militia, Fencibles and Volunteers at 74,000. This was out of a population of about 300,000. Even allowing for this estimate overstating the case, in time of war, the Highlands was seen as a significant recruiting resource.\n\nThe attitude towards increasing population was altered in the first half of the 19th century. First, the kelp trade collapsed in the years immediately following the end of the Napoleonic Wars in 1815. Most of those working in the kelp trade were crofters, with not enough land to make a living. Without alternative employment, which was not available, destitution was inevitable. The landlords (or in some cases the trustees of their bankrupt estates) no longer tried to retain their tenants on their land, either encouraging or assisting emigration, or, in the more desperate circumstances, virtually compelling those in substantial rent arrears to accept an assisted passage (i.e. to emigrate), with the alternative of simple eviction.\n\nThe potato famine followed shortly after the collapse of the kelp industry. The human cost to the tenants and the landlords' liability for famine relief made the downsides of population more apparent.\n\nIn the decades following 1815, the ideological and political consensus changed. Surplus population slowly became thought of as a liability; their need to be fed could not be ignored in a philanthropic age. Therefore, large-scale expatriation was considered as a solution to the social crisis in the Highlands. The ideas of Malthus were adopted by many in a position to influence policy. The Passenger Vessels Act was repealed in 1827 and in 1841 a Select Committee of the House of Commons concluded that the crofting parishes had a surplus population of 45,000 to 60,000.\n\nThe primary motivation for clearance was economic. Associated with this was the suggestion by some theorists that the Celtic population were less hardworking than those of Anglo-Saxon stock (i.e. Lowlanders and, in some instances, English), so giving an economic element to a racial theory. James Hunter quotes a contemporary Lowland newspaper: ‘Ethnologically the Celtic race is an inferior one and, attempt to disguise it as we may, there is . . . no getting rid of the great cosmical fact that it is destined to give way . . . before the higher capabilities of the Anglo-Saxon.’ These views were held by people like Patrick Sellar, the factor employed by the Countess of Sutherland to put her plans into effect, who often wrote of his support for these ideas, and Sir Charles Trevelyan, the senior government representative in organising famine relief during the Highland Potato Famine. (Trevelyan regarded himself as a \"reformed Celt\", having a Cornish Celtic heritage.)\n\nRoman Catholics had experienced a sequence of discriminatory laws in the period up to 1708. Whilst English versions of these laws were repealed in 1778, in Scotland this did not happen until 1793. However, religious discrimination is not considered, by some historians, to be a reason for evicting tenants as part of any clearance, and is seen more as a source of voluntary emigration by writers such as Eric Richards. There is one clear (and possibly solitary) case of harassment of Catholics which resulted in eviction by Colin MacDonald of Boisdale (a recent convert to Presbyterianism). This temporarily stalled when the risk of empty farms (and therefore loss of rent) became apparent when voluntary emigration to escape persecution was possible. However, in 1771, 36 families did not have their leases renewed (out of some 300 families who were tenants of Boisdale); 11 of these emigrated the next year with financial assistance from the Roman Catholic church.\n\nAnother wave of mass emigration came in 1792, known to Gaelic-speaking Highlanders as the \"\" (\"Year of the Sheep\"). Landlords had been clearing land to establish sheep farming. In 1792 tenant farmers from Strathrusdale led a protest by driving more than 6,000 sheep off the land surrounding Ardross. This action, commonly referred to as the \"Ross-shire Sheep Riot\", was dealt with at the highest levels in the government; the Home Secretary Henry Dundas became involved. He had the Black Watch mobilised; it halted the drive and brought the ringleaders to trial. They were found guilty, but later escaped custody and disappeared.\n\nThe people were relocated to poor crofts. Others were sent to small farms in coastal areas, where farming could not sustain the population, and they were expected to take up fishing as a new trade. In the village of Badbea in Caithness, the weather conditions were so harsh that, while the women worked, they had to tether their livestock and their children to rocks or posts to prevent them being blown over the cliffs. Other crofters were transported directly to emigration ships, bound for North America or Australia.\n\nTwo of the best documented clearances are those from the land of the Duchess of Sutherland, carried out by, among other people, her factor Patrick Sellar, and the Glencalvie clearances which were witnessed and documented by a \"London Times\" reporter.\nThe Sutherland estate was inherited by Elizabeth Sutherland when she was one year old. It consisted of about half of the county of Sutherland (and increasing by purchases made between 1812 and 1816 to around 63%, as measured by rental value). On 4 September 1785, at the age 20, Lady Sutherland married George Granville Leveson-Gower, Viscount Trentham, who was known as Earl Gower from 1786 until in 1803 he succeeded to his father's title of Marquess of Stafford. In 1832, just six months before he died, he was created Duke of Sutherland and she became known as Duchess-Countess of Sutherland.\n\nAt the time of Lady Sutherland's inheritance of the estate, there were a large number of wadsets (a type of mortgage) on much of the land - like many Highland estates it had substantial debts. Some removals were made in 1772 whilst Lady Sutherland was still a child and the estate was managed by her tutors. Attempts were made to dislodge many of the tacksmen on the estate at this time. Notable emigrations of tenants had taken place and plans were considered for new fishing villages to provide employment for tenants moved from the interior. However, the estate was handicapped by a serious shortage of the capital needed, and these large plans were not proceeded with until money became available.\n\nWhen, in 1803 Leveson-Gower inherited the huge fortune of the Duke of Bridgewater, funds were available for the Sutherland Estate to proceed with a program of improvement. Many of the estate's leases did not end until 1807, but planning was started to restructure the estate. Despite the conventions of the day and the provisions of the entailment on Lady Sutherland's inheritance, Leveson-Gower delegated overall control of the estate to his wife; she took an active interest in its management. As the major part of the Sutherland Clearances began, Lady Sutherland and her advisors were influenced by several things. Firstly a substantial population increase was underway. Secondly the area was prone to famine - and in these years it fell to the landlord to organise relief by buying meal on the open market and importing it into the area. The degree of severity of famine is a matter of debate among historians now and also within the Sutherland Estate management in their near-contemporaneous analysis of the clearances in 1845. The third driving force was the whole range of thinking on agricultural improvement. This took in economic ideas expressed by Adam Smith as well as those of many agriculturalists. For the Highlands, the main thrust of these theories was the much greater rental return to be obtained from sheep. Wool prices had increased faster than other commodities since the 1780s. This enabled sheep farmers to pay substantially higher rents than the current tenants.\n\nNow that capital funding was available, the first big sheep farm was let at Lairg in 1807, involving the removal of about 300 people. Many of these did not accept their new homes and emigrated, to the dissatisfaction of the estate management and Lady Sutherland. In 1809, William Young and Patrick Sellar arrived in Sutherland and made contact with the Sutherland family, becoming key advisors to the owners of the estate. They offered ambitious plans which matched the wish for rapid results. Lady Sutherland had already dismissed the estate's factor, David Campbell, in 1807 for lack of progress. His replacement, Cosmo Falconer found his position being undermined by the advice offered by Young and Sellar. In August 1810 Falconer agreed to leave, with effect from 2 June 1811, and Young and Sellar took over in his place. \n\nYoung had a proven track record of agricultural improvement in Moray and Sellar was a lawyer educated at Edinburgh University; both were fully versed in the modern ideas of Adam Smith. They provided an extra level of ambition for the estate. New industries were added to the plans, to employ the resettled population. A coal mine was sunk at Brora, and fishing villages were built to exploit the herring shoals off the coast. Other ideas were tanning, flax, salt and brick manufacturing. \n\nThe first clearances under the factorship of Young and Sellar were in Assynt in 1812, under the direction of Sellar, establishing large sheep farms and resettling the old tenants on the coast. Sellar had the assistance of the local tacksmen in this and the process was conducted without unrest - despite the unpopularity of events. However, in 1813, planned clearances in the Strath of Kildonan were accompanied by riots: an angry mob drove prospective sheep farmers out of the valley when they came to view the land, and a situation of confrontation existed for more than 6 weeks, with Sellar failing to successfully negotiate with the protesters. Ultimately, the army was called out and the estate made concessions such as paying very favourable prices for the cattle of those being cleared. This was assisted by landlords in surrounding districts taking in some of those displaced and an organised party emigrating to Canada. The whole process was a severe shock to Lady Sutherland and her advisers, who were, in the words of historian Eric Richards, \"genuinely astonished at this response to plans which they regarded as wise and benevolent\".\n\nFurther clearances were scheduled in Strathnaver starting at Whitsun, 1814. These were complicated by Sellar having successfully bid for the lease of one of the new sheep farms on land that it was now his responsibility, as factor, to clear. (Overall, this clearance was part of the removal of 430 families from Strathnaver and Brora in 1814 - an estimated 2000 people.) Sellar had also made an enemy of the local law officer, Robert Mackid, by catching him poaching on the Sutherland's land. There was some confusion among the tenants as Sellar made concessions to some of them, allowing them to stay in their properties a little longer. Some tenants moved in advance of the date in their eviction notice - others stayed until the eviction parties arrived. As was normal practice, the roof timbers of cleared houses were destroyed to prevent re-occupation after the eviction party had left. On 13th June 1814, this was done by burning in the case of Badinloskin, the house occupied by William Chisholm. Accounts vary, but it is possible that his elderly and bedridden mother-in-law was still in the house when it was set on fire. In James Hunter's understanding of events, Sellar ordered her to be immediately carried out as soon as he realised what was happening. The old lady died 6 days later. Eric Richards suggests that the old woman was carried to an outbuilding before the house was destroyed. Whatever the facts of the matter, Sellar was charged with culpable homicide and arson, in respect of this incident and others during this clearance. The charges were brought by Robert Mackid, driven by the enmity he held for Sellar for catching him poaching. As the trial approached, the Sutherland estate was reluctant to assist Sellar in his defence, distancing themselves from their employee. He was acquitted of all charges at his trial in 1816. The estate were hugely relieved, taking this as a justification of their clearance activity. (Robert Mackid became a ruined man and had to leave the county, providing Sellar with a grovelling letter of apology and confession.) \n\nDespite the acquittal, this event, and Sellar's role in it, was fixed in the popular view of the Sutherland Clearances. James Loch, the Stafford estate commissioner was now taking a greater interest in the Northern part of his employer's holdings; he thought Young's financial management was incompetent, and Sellar's actions among the people deeply concerning. Both Sellar and William Young soon left their management posts with the Sutherland estate (though Sellar remained as a major tenant). Loch, nevertheless, also subscribed to the theory that clearance was beneficial for the tenants as much as for the estate. \n\nLady Sutherland's displeasure with events was added to by critical reports in a minor London newspaper, the Military Register, from April 1815. These were soon carried in larger newspapers. They originated from Alexander Sutherland, who, with his brother John Sutherland of Sciberscross, were opponents of clearance. Alexander, after serving as a captain in the army had been thwarted in his hopes to take up leases on the Sutherland estate and now worked as a journalist in London. He was therefore well placed to cause trouble for the estate.\n\nThe (effective) dismissal of Sellar placed him in the role of scapegoat, thereby preventing a proper critical analysis of the estate's policies. Clearances continued under the factorship of Frances Suther and the overall control of James Loch. Through 1816 and 1817, famine conditions affected most of the inland areas and the estate had to provide relief to those who were destitute. This altered policy on emigration: if tenants wanted to emigrate, the estate would not object, but there was still no active encouragement. \n\nIn 1818 the largest part of the clearance program was put into effect, lasting until 1820. Loch gave emphatic instructions intended to avoid another public relations disaster: rent arrears could be excused for those who co-operated, time was to be taken and rents for the new crofts were to be set as low as possible.\n\nThe process did not start well. The Reverend David Mackenzie of Kildonan wrote to Loch on behalf of the 220 families due to be cleared from his parish. He categorically challenged the basic premise of the clearance: that the people from an inland region could make a living on their new coastal crofts. Loch was adamant that the removals would go ahead regardless of objections. Yet, at the same time, Suther and the local ground officer of the estate were pointing out to Loch that few of the new crofts were of an acceptable quality. Some tenants were considering moving off the estate, either to Caithness or emigrating to America or the Cape of Good Hope, which Suther encouraged by writing off their rent arrears. More positively for those with eviction notices, cattle prices were high in 1818. Ultimately, that year's clearances passed without serious protest.\n\nOver the next 2 years the scale of clearance increased: 425 families (about 2,000 people) in 1819 and 522 families in 1820. Loch was anxious to move quickly, whilst cattle prices were high and there was a good demand for leases of sheep farms. There was no violent resistance in 1819, but Suther, despite precise instructions to the contrary, used fire to destroy cleared houses. This came after a spell of dry weather, in which the turf and stone walls of the houses had dried out, so that even the turf in the walls ignited, adding to the blaze of the thatch and roof timbers. Multiplied over the large number of properties that were cleared, this made a horrific impression on those who observed it. The public relations disaster that Loch had wished to avoid now followed, with the Observer newspaper running the headline: \"the Devastation of Sutherland\". 1819 became known as \"the year of the burnings\" (\"bliadhna na losgaidh\")\n\nIn the autumn of 1819, the Sutherland Estate management received reports of growing hostility to further clearances. The Sutherland family were sent anonymous threatening letters to their house in London. The Transatlantic Emigration Society provided a focus for resistance to the clearances planned in 1820, holding large meetings and conducting extensive correspondence with newspapers about the situation of Sutherland tenants. This publicity caused great concern to Loch, and the comment in the press increased as Whitsun 1820 increased. Lady Sutherland felt that her family was being particularly targeted by critics of the clearances, so she asked Loch to find out what neighbouring estates had done. The answer was that Lord Moray in Ross-shire had, on occasion, bought the cattle owned by evicted tenants, but otherwise had made no provision for them: they had simply been evicted with no compensation or alternative tenancies offered. The tenants of Munro of Novar were also simply evicted, with many of them emigrating. As the 1820 Sutherland clearances approached, there was notable rioting at Culrain on the Munro of Novar estate, protesting at their clearance plans. Loch worried that this would spread to the Sutherland tenants, but no violent physical resistance occurred, with those cleared demonstrating (in the words of Eric Richards) \"sullen acquiescence\". In June there was serious resistance to clearance in another nearby estate, at Gruids. Richards attributes the lack of violence in the Sutherland Estate to the resettlement arrangements in place there, stating: \"In this sense the Sutherland estate was, despite its reputation, in strong and positive contrast to most other clearing proprietors.\"\n\n1819 and 1820 represented the main clearance activity on the Sutherland Estate. The much smaller clearance in the spring of 1821 at Achness and Ascoilmore met with obstruction and the military had to be called in to carry out evictions by force. Complaints were made against the estate of cruelty and negligence, but an internal enquiry absolved the factor of any wrongdoing. However, it is highly likely that this conclusion glossed over the suffering experienced by those evicted.\n\nFigures gathered by the estate give some information on where tenants, sub-tenants and squatters went after the evictions in 1819. For tenants, 68% became tenants elsewhere on the estate, 7% went to neighbouring estates, 21% to adjoining counties and 2% emigrated. The remaining 2% were unaccounted for. The sub-tenants and squatters were divided up into 73% resettled on the coast, 7% in neighbouring estates, 13% to nearby counties and 5% emigrated. 2% were unaccounted for. This survey does not pick up information on those who subsequently travelled elsewhere.\n\nLoch issued instructions to Suther at the end of 1821 that brought the major clearance activity of the estate to an end. Some small-scale clearance activity continued for the next 20 years or so, but this was not part of the overall plan to resettle the population in coastal settlements and engage them in alternative industries.\n\nThe flamboyant Alexander Ranaldson MacDonell of Glengarry portrayed himself as the last genuine specimen of the true Highland chief while his tenants (almost all Catholic) were subjected to a relentless process of eviction. He abandoned his disbanded regiment; its Catholic chaplain (later bishop), Alexander Macdonell led the men and their families to settle in Glengarry County, eastern Ontario, Canada.\n\nAs in Ireland, the potato crop failed in Scotland during the mid 19th century. The ongoing clearance policy resulted in starvation, deaths, and a secondary clearance, when families either migrated voluntarily or were forcibly evicted. There were many deaths of children and the aged. As there were few alternatives, people emigrated, joined the army, or moved to growing urban centres such as Glasgow, Edinburgh, and Dundee in Lowland Scotland and Newcastle upon Tyne and Liverpool in the north of England. Others squatted in Highland towns such as Tobermory, Lochcarron, or Lochaline. In places some people were given economic incentives to move, but in many instances landlords used violent methods. \n\nDevine writes that, in contrast to earlier clearances,\nevictions during the famine were often governed by an undisguised determination to expel the people. In addition, these clearances were unleashed on a population already ravaged by hunger and destitution and few attempts were made to provide shelter to the dispossessed. The effect of the large scale evictions and the appearance of destitute Gaels in urban areas was to bring the problem of Clearance to the attention of Britain and lay the foundation for reform.\n\nIn 1851, following his tour of the Western Highlands and Isles, Sir John McNeill wrote:\n\nThe inhabitants of these distressed districts have neither capital enough to cultivate the extent of the land necessary to maintain them if it could be provided, nor have they land enough were the capital supplied to them.\n\nRichards considers this observation to be \"the central dilemma of the crofter economy\". After the potato blight, there were more people than the land could support.\n\nThe potato famine gave rise to the Highland and Island Emigration Society which sponsored around 5,000 emigrants to Australia from the affected areas of Scotland.\n\nKarl Marx was living in London during the peak of the national controversy over the Highland Clearances. In \"Das Kapital\", he described them as\n\nThe spoliation of the church's property, the fraudulent alienation of the State domains, the robbery of the common lands, the usurpation of feudal and clan property, and its transformation into modern private property under circumstances of reckless terrorism...\nIt has frequently been asserted that Gaels reacted to the Clearances with apathy and a near-total absence of active resistance from the crofting population. However, upon closer examination this view is at best an oversimplification. Michael Lynch suggests that there were more than 50 major acts of resistance to clearance. Even before the Crofters' War of the 1880s, Gaelic communities had staved off or even averted removals by accosting law enforcement officials and destroying eviction notices, such as in Coigach, Rossshire, 1852–3. Women took the front line in opposing the authorities, with their male relatives backing them up. Lowland shepherds imported to work the new sheep farms were subject to intimidating letters and maiming or theft of the sheep. More than 1,500 sheep were stolen on the Sutherland estate in a single year in the early 19th century. Many forms of resistance were practiced under the table, such as poaching. After the introduction of watermills at Milton Farm, South Uist, in the early nineteenth century, the tenants continued to hand-grind their grain with querns. As this was considered undesirable, the landlord had the querns broken; similar episodes were recorded in Skye and Tiree. After the Disruption of 1843, many Gaelic-speaking areas deserted the Church of Scotland in favor of the Presbyterian Free Church, which refused to take money from landlords and was often overtly critical of them.\n\nRichards describes three attempts at large-scale resistance before the Crofters' War: the Year of the Sheep, protests against Patrick Sellar's clearance of Strathnaver in 1812–4, and the \"Dudgeonite agitation\" in Easter Ross in 1819–20, sparked by a local tacksman's organization of an emigration fund.\n\nThe Highland Land League eventually achieved land reform in the enactment of the Crofters' Holdings (Scotland) Act 1886, but these could not bring economic viability and came too late, at a time when the land was already suffering from depopulation. However, the Crofters' Act put an end to the Clearances by granting security of tenure to crofters.\n\nHowever, the Crofters' Act did not grant security of tenure to cottiers or break up large estates. As a result, the Scottish Highlands continues to have the most unequal distributions of land in Europe, with more than half of Scotland owned by fewer than 500 people. Land struggles occurred after the First and Second World Wars as returning servicemen could not get crofts.\n\nMany Gaelic poets were heavily influenced by the Clearances. Responses varied from sadness and nostalgia, which dominated the poetry of Niall MacLeòid, to the anger and call to action found in the work of Mary MacPherson. The best-known Scottish Gaelic poem of the 20th century, , was written by Sorley MacLean about a cleared village near where he grew up on Raasay; many other of his poems deal with the effects of the Clearances.\n\nMany songs were in the form of satire of the landlord class. Perhaps the most famous of these is \"\" (Mackay Country or Northern Sutherland, a region hit hard by the Clearances), written by Ewen Henderson, who became known as the \"Bard of the Clearances.\" The song mocks the Duke of Sutherland, his factor, Patrick Sellar, James Loch, James Anderson, and others involved in the Sutherland Clearances. Similar sentiments were expressed with regard to the Ardnamurchan Clearances by a local doctor, Iain MacLachlainn.\nThe Canadian Boat-Song expresses the desolation felt by some emigrants:\n\nThe clearances were an influential theme in Scottish literature, with notable examples such as \"Consider the Lilies\", a novel by Iain Crichton Smith.\n\nOn 23 July 2007, the Scottish First Minister Alex Salmond unveiled a high bronze \"Exiles\" statue, by Gerald Laing, in Helmsdale, Sutherland, which commemorates the people who were cleared from the area by landowners and left their homeland to begin new lives overseas. The statue, which depicts a family leaving their home, stands at the mouth of the Strath of Kildonan and was funded by Dennis Macleod, a Scottish-Canadian mining millionaire who also attended the ceremony.\n\nAn identical bronze \"Exiles\" statue has also been set up on the banks of the Red River in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada.\n\nIn Golspie, Sutherland, a statue of George Granville Leveson-Gower, the first Duke of Sutherland, has been subject to vandalism due to his controversial role in the Sutherland Clearances.\n\nThe diaspora was worldwide, but emigrants settled in close communities on Prince Edward Island, Nova Scotia (Antigonish and Pictou counties and later in Cape Breton), the Glengarry and Kingston areas of Ontario and the Carolinas of the American colonies. Canadian Gaelic was widely spoken for some two centuries. One estimate of Nova Scotia's population has 50,000 Gaels immigrating from Scotland between 1815 and 1870. At the beginning of the 20th century, there were an estimated 100,000 Gaelic speakers in Cape Breton.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2031551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2031551", "title": "Jura Federation", "text": "Jura Federation\n\nThe Jura Federation represented the anarchist, Bakuninist faction of the First International during the anti-statist split from the organization. Jura, a Swiss area, was known for its watchmaker artisans in La Chaux-de-Fonds, who shared anti-state, egalitarian views on work and social emancipation. The Jura Federation formed between international socialist congresses in 1869 and 1871. When the First International's General Council, led by Marxists, suppressed the Bakuninists, the Jura Federation organized a congress of the disaffected federations at Saint-Imier in 1872. The congress disavowed the General Council's authoritarian consolidation of power and planning as an affront to the International's loose, federalist founding to support workers' emancipation. Members of the First International agreed and even statists joined the anti-statists' resulting Anti-authoritarian International, but by 1876, the alliance had mostly dissolved. While in decline, the Jura Federation remained the home of Bakuninists whose figures engaged on a two-decade debate on the merits of propaganda of the deed. The egalitarian relations of the Jura Federation had played an important role in Peter Kropotkin's adoption of anarchism, who became the anarchist standard-bearer after Bakunin.\n\nThe Jura became the geographic center of the First International's anarchist coalition under luminary Mikhail Bakunin in the late 1860s and early 1870s, assisted by the Swiss government's laxity toward political agitators. The Jura Federation formed during infighting in the International between Bakunin and Karl Marx's factions. The Jura Federation split during the Fédération Romande congress of the International, in January 1869. Though Bakunin's faction was larger, the International's General Council was Marxist, and did not recognize the Jura Federation for its relation to Bakunin. The group was formally inaugurated at the 1871 Congress of Sonvilier with positions against the state and against the General Council (the Sonvilier Circular), which the Jura charged with turning free and autonomous parts of the International into an authoritarian hierarchy. The Federation started its journal, \"Bulletin de la Fédération jurassienne\", in February 1872 to explicate its stance against the General Council.\n\nThe Jura Federation organized a congress of the First International's apostate factions in Saint-Imier in September 1872. The Bakuninists from Jura, France, Italy, Spain, and the United States reaffirmed their Sonvilier Circular position and charged the General Council with violating the premises of their partnership: the autonomy of the federations and their ultimate cause: workers' emancipation. The Saint-Imier coalition agreed to a solidarity pact to ensure the member federations' independent autonomy and their common union against the General Council. The Bakuninists rebuked the General Council for its centralization of political power and advocation for uniform action towards social emancipation. The coalition would become the Anti-authoritarian International, as formalized at the 1873 Congress of Geneva, and it held that only the proletariat masses could seek social emancipation for themselves through free, spontaneous action and egalitarian economic federation: It could not be imposed from hierarchy.\n\nMembers of the First International largely supported the Saint-Imier congress, and opposed the General Council's suppression of the Bakuninists at the 1871 London Conference and 1872 Hague Congress. As a result, the Anti-authoritarian International congresses in 1873 and 1874 attracted Belgian, English, Dutch, and German federations into the fold, along with the First International's statist and anti-statist factionalism. The English Federation, for example, explicitly disagreed with the Jurassian position on action, but as long as the federations were free to pursue their own methods, affirmed the higher purpose of restoring a federalist International. The Jura argued for abstention from political action, citing their fruitless experiences with parliamentary politics and their subsequent organization outside political parties. By 1876, the alliance between the statists and anti-statists had mostly dissolved and the Jura Federation was in decline. The Jura watchmakers cooperative in La Chaux-de-Fonds had a work shortage and the group's isolation from the general population had worn them.\n\nBakunin retired from the Jura Federation in 1873 and died three years later. Jura remained a continuation of Bakunin's International alliance and Peter Kropotkin became the international anarchist standard-bearer. Jura was particularly influential in Kropotkin's adoption of anarchism. Skeptical of the First International's leadership in Geneva, had visited the organization's other stronghold, in Jura in 1872, where he was impressed by their egalitarian ethics, independence of thought, devotion to the cause, and opposition to the International's authoritarian elements. \"After a week's stay with the watchmakers,\" he wrote, \"my views on socialism were settled. I was an anarchist.\" He then returned to Russia and did not re-involve himself until 1877, the year after he escaped from Russia.\n\nMajor figures at Jura included James Guillaume, Adhémar Schwitzguébel, Severino Albarracín, Carlo Cafiero, Errico Malatesta, and Élisée Reclus. They discussed the practical and theoretical tenets of anarchist socialism, particularly \"propaganda of the deed\", whose question became associated with the group in 1876 and was debated for two decades. Adherents such as Malatesta and the Italian anarchists quickly adopted the tactic, while Guillaume was hesitant. Up until this time, the anarchist philosophy had flourished in small artisan communities, such as the watchmakers in Jura, and propaganda of the deed was intended to bond anarchist and workers' groups, as had been done in Spain and Italy. Upset by Kropotkin's advances, Guillaume left Jura in 1878.\n\nAn 1880 congress of the Jura Federation, in La Chaux-de-Fonds, adopted \"anarchist communism\" as its doctrine, as did many anarchists outside Spain, since the latter's anarchism was more dependent on trade unions. Schwitzguébel and his adherents in Jura were reticent at the adoption of communism over collectivism.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3291000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3291000", "title": "Keyline design", "text": "Keyline design\n\nKeyline design is a landscaping technique of maximizing the beneficial use of the water resources of a tract of land. The \"keyline\" denominates a specific topographic feature related to the natural flow of water on the tract. Keyline design is a system of principles and techniques of developing rural and urban landscapes to optimize use of their water resources.\n\nAustralian farmer and engineer P. A. Yeomans invented and developed Keyline design in his books \"The Keyline Plan\", \"The Challenge of Landscape\", \"Water For Every Farm\", and \"The City Forest\".\n\nP. A. Yeomans published the first book on Keyline design in 1954. Yeomans described a system of amplified contour ripping to control rainfall runoff and enable fast flood irrigation of undulating land without the need for terracing it.\n\nKeyline designs include irrigation dams equipped with through-the-wall lockpipe systems, gravity feed irrigation, stock water, and yard water. Graded earthen channels may be interlinked to broaden the catchment areas of high dams, conserve the height of water, and transfer rainfall runoff into the most efficient high dam sites. Roads follow both ridge lines and water channels to provide easier movement across the land.\n\nThe foundation of Yeomans' Keyline design system is the Keyline Scale of Permanence (KSOP), which was the outcome of 15 years of adaptive experimentation. The Scale identifies the environmental elements of typical farms and orders them according to their degree of permanence as follows:\n\nKeyline design considers these elements in planning the placement of water storage features, roads, trees, edifices, and fences. On undulating land, keyline design involves identifying ridges, valleys, and natural water courses and designing with them in mind in order to optimize water storage sites. Constructing interconnecting channels may be part of such optimization.\n\nThe identified natural water lines delineate the possible locations for the various less permanent elements, e. g. roads, fences, trees, and edifices, which if so located would help optimize the natural potential of the land in question.\n\nIn a smooth, grassy valley, a location denominated the keypoint is identified at which the lower and leveller portion of the primary valley floor suddenly steepens higher. The keyline of this primary valley is determined by pegging a contour line that conforms to the natural shape of the valley through the keypoint, such that all points on the keyline are at the same elevation as the keypoint. Contour plowing both above and below the keyline and parallel to it ipso facto is \"off-contour\", but the developing pattern tends to drift rainwater runoff away from the center of the valley and, incidentally, prevent erosion of its soil.\n\nCultivation conforming to Keyline design for ridges is done parallel to any suitable contour, but only on the high side of the contour's guide line. This ipso facto develops a pattern of off-contour cultivation in which all the rip marks made in the soil slope down towards the center of the ridge. This pattern of cultivation allows more time for water to infiltrate. Cultivation following Keyline pattern also enables controlled flood irrigation of undulating land, which increases the rate of development of deep, fertile soil.\n\nIn many nations, including Australia, it is important to optimize infiltration of rainfall, and Keyline cultivation accomplishes this while delaying the concentration of runoff that could damage the land. Yeomans' technique differs from traditional contour plowing in several important respects. Random contour plowing also becomes off contour but usually with the opposite effect on runoff, namely causing it to quickly run off ridges and concentrate in valleys. The limitations of the traditional system of soil conservation, with its \"safe disposal\" approach to farm water, was an important motivation to develop Keyline design.\n\nDavid Holmgren, one of the founders of permaculture, used Yeoman's Keyline design extensively in the formulation of his principles of permaculture and the design of sustainable human settlements and organic farms.\n\nDarren J. Doherty has extensive global experience in Keyline design, development, management, and education. He uses Keyline as the basis for his Regrarians framework, which he considers a revision and synthesis of Keyline design, permaculture, holistic management, and several other innovative, human ecological frameworks into a coherent process-based system of design and management of regenerative economies.\n\nA topographical example of Keyline design is available at ().\n\nKeyline design also includes principles of rapidly enhancing soil fertility. They are explored in \"Priority One\" by P. A. Yeomans' son, Allan. Yeomans and his sons were also instrumental in the design and production of special plows and other equipment for Keyline cultivation.\n\n"}
{"id": "53997920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53997920", "title": "Laurence Auzière-Jourdan", "text": "Laurence Auzière-Jourdan\n\nLaurence Auzière-Jourdan (born 1977) is a French cardiologist and campaigner in the 2017 presidential campaign of Emmanuel Macron, who was elected. Macron is her step-father.\n\nAuzière-Jourdan was born in 1977 to André-Louis Auzière, a banker, and Brigitte Trogneux. Her family lived in Truchtersheim, a French city near the German border, until 1991. She was a classmate of Emmanuel Macron at the Lycée la Providence in Amiens, France. She has an older brother, Sébastien, an engineer, and a younger sister, Tiphaine, a lawyer.\n\nAuzière-Jourdan graduated from Pierre and Marie Curie University (UPMC University of Paris VI).\n\nAuzière-Jourdan practices high risk cardiology and vascular diseases in Vincennes and Nogent-sur-Marne. She practices with cardiologists Didier Catuli and Pierre Sablon. She has published research in cardiology, including \"Facteurs échographiques associés à un niveau de BNP élevé chez les insuffisants cardiaques: interaction systole diastole. (2004)\"\n\nDuring the 2017 campaign of En Marche! presidential candidate Emmanuel Macron, she campaigned for him. Macron married Auzière-Jourdan's mother, Trogneux in 2007, after the two met each other when Macron was a 15 year old student. At first, Macron's parents thought he was interested in Auzière-Jourdan, after she remarked that there was a boy in her class who \"knows everything about everything\" but later found out that Macron was interested in Auzière-Jourdan's mother.\n\nAuzière-Jourdan married Guillaume Jourdan, a radiologist practicing in Meaux.\n"}
{"id": "1004337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1004337", "title": "List of Northwest Territories general elections", "text": "List of Northwest Territories general elections\n\nThis is a list of territorial elections in Northwest Territories, Canada since 1870. The Northwest Territories operates on a consensus government using the First Past the Post electoral system. The territory does not presently recognize political parties.\n\nNorthwest Territories elects members to the Legislative Assembly of the Northwest Territories under a non-partisan system known as consensus government. The election only decides who represents each district. The newly elected members of the assembly convene after the election to vote amongst themselves to decide which members become part of the Executive Council.\nThis system of government has evolved in the Northwest Territories since 1870.\n\nThe voting method to elect members is the First Past the Post electoral system. Voters under this system pick the top candidate by the number of votes cast regardless of the percent of votes earned by a candidate. With a few historical exceptions all electoral districts in the Northwest Territories are represented by a single member. First Past the Post has been used since the first election in 1881. Elections NWT is the independent regulatory body in charge of overseeing elections.\n\nThe Northwest Territories has been through a number of distinct changes in how the territory is governed and how government has been selected. These changes have coincided with several major boundary changes since the Government of Canada acquired the territory in 1870. From 1869 to 1876 the Northwest Territories was run by an interim government, first led by lieutenant-governor William McDougall, and a council appointed by Ottawa. This council was governed under the \"Temporary Government of Rupert's Land Act, 1869\" and the \"Manitoba Act, 1870\" The council itself sat in Manitoba and was made up of Members of the Manitoba Legislative Assembly.\n\nIn 1876 the Temporary Council was dissolved and a new council was appointed under the \"Northwest Territories Act\". Members could be elected to join the council if an area of had 1000 inhabitants. The first such electoral districts were created in 1881. According to the Act, when the council reached twenty members, it would gain control of territorial affairs from the crown. The Council achieved this requirement in 1886. The council was renamed to an assembly and was dissolved in 1888. Twelve elections to rotate and elect members to new districts were held during the period between 1876 and 1888.\n\nFive general elections would occur between 1888 and 1905, as the territories underwent significant growth. In 1897 after an amendment to the Northwest Territories Act, the territories experienced a short-lived period of partisan politics that led to the Northwest Territories Liberal-Conservative Party being elected in the fourth and fifth elections until 1905. The government in this period was made of members from the populated regions in the south. No members from the Arctic region would sit in government until 1947. In 1905, Alberta and Saskatchewan were carved out of the Northwest Territories. As a result, the population dropped from approx 160,000 to 17,000, of which 16,000 were aboriginal and had no right to vote under Canadian law. The government of the Northwest Territories defaulted back to its 1870 constitutional status, and once again came under federal control. This period of the second council, which governed from Ottawa, lasted from 1905 to 1951.\n\nIn 1951, the second council was dissolved in order to return to elections. Rather than being fully elected body, the Councils and Assemblies were a mix of elected and appointed members. After 1975 the Assembly became fully elected. In 1999 the Northwest Territories underwent one last division as the territory of Nunavut was created out of the eastern half of the territory.\n\nThe boundary changes have resulted in a disconnect in four periods of the territorial government. The records of the temporary council falls under the archives of the Manitoba government, while the archives and electoral records of the period of government from 1876 to 1905 were retained by the Saskatchewan government. The archives of the council from 1905 to 1951 are under the Canadian Government who appointed the council from that period.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56897245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56897245", "title": "Ministry of Culture and Tourism of the People's Republic of China", "text": "Ministry of Culture and Tourism of the People's Republic of China\n\nThe Ministry of Culture and Tourism () is a ministry of the State Council of the People's Republic of China which is responsible for cultural policy and activities and tourism in the country. Its headquarters are in Chaoyang District, Beijing. It was formed on 19 March 2018; its predecessors were the Ministry of Culture and China National Tourism Administration.\n\nOn March 19, 2018, the Government of the People's Republic of China announced that the Ministry of Culture and China National Tourism Administration have been merged to create the Ministry of Culture and Tourism at the first session of the 13th National People's Congress. That same day, Luo Shugang was elected Minister of Culture and Tourism.\n\n"}
{"id": "19776561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19776561", "title": "Ministry of Education (Portugal)", "text": "Ministry of Education (Portugal)\n\nThe Ministry of Education ( or \"ME\"), is a Portuguese government ministry.\n"}
{"id": "39822533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39822533", "title": "Ministry of Education and Vocational Training (Spain)", "text": "Ministry of Education and Vocational Training (Spain)\n\nThe Ministry of Education and Vocational Training of Spain is a current department of the Spanish Government which exists from June 2018.\n\nFrom 2018, the Minister of Education and Vocational Training is María Isabel Celaá Diéguez.\n\nThe Ministry of Education and Vocational Training is a department of the General Administration responsible for suggesting and carrying out the Government policy in educational and vocational training affairs.\n\nMoreover, this department has to foster cooperation actions and international relations in educational, cultural and sports affairs in coordination with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation.\n\nThe Ministry of Education and Vocational Training, under the superior management of the department's principal, carries out the responsibilities that legally belong to it via the superior and executive bodies:\n\nAs a body of political and technical support to the Minister it has a Cabinet, with the level of General Management.\n\nAre advisory and/or participation college bodies of the Ministry of Education, Culture and Sport the following ones:\n\nThe Institute of Spain, the Royal Academies and the academies of the national area are administratively related to the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training.\n\n"}
{"id": "23772325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23772325", "title": "Nordic Resistance Movement", "text": "Nordic Resistance Movement\n\nThe Nordic Resistance Movement, NRM (, , , , ) is a Pan-Nordic neo-Nazi movement and in Sweden, a political party. It is established in Sweden, Norway, Finland, and Denmark, and also has members in Iceland. It has been banned in Finland, but the ban has been appealed. The NRM has been described as a terrorist organization by a researcher at the Swedish Defence University due to their aim of abolishing democracy along with their paramilitary activities and weapons caches.\n\nIn December 1997, Klas Lund and some other former members of the White Aryan Resistance (Swedish: \"Vitt Ariskt Motstånd\", also known as VAM) – a militant neo-Nazi network active from 1991 to 1993 – having been released from prison after being convicted of robberies and manslaughter, among other things, formed the Swedish Resistance Movement (\"Svenska Motståndsrörelsen\" or SMR) together with individuals working with the neo-Nazi magazine \"Folktribunen\" and members of \"Nationell Ungdom\" (\"National Youth\"), a neofascist and openly racist organisation.\n\nIn 2016, the Nordic Resistance Movement was formed, with separate affiliates in Sweden, Finland, and Norway; a Danish affiliate was later disbanded. The Nordic Resistance Movement advocates an immediate stop to what they call mass immigration to the Scandinavian countries, and repatriation of people that are not of Northern European or of closely related descent. It also advocates Nordic self-sufficiency and withdrawal from the European Union.\n\nOn 28 February 2018, \"The Verge\" reported that Discord had shut down a number of neo-Nazi and alt-right servers, including that of the Nordic Resistance Movement, from their private chat platform, for abuse of their Terms of Service.\n\nThe Swedish Resistance Movement was founded by Klas Lund, its present leader is Simon Lindberg, and its political wing is managed by Pär Öberg. It is known for its opposition to non-white immigration to Sweden. Svenska motståndsrörelsen is considered a central actor in Sweden's white power movement. The aim of Nordic Resistance Movement is to establish a Nordic neo-Nazi government by revolution or elections.\nThe organization says its fight will require bloodshed.\n\nSMR has praised Adolf Hitler and Corneliu Codreanu in their publications. Their main tactics are distributing leaflets and making public speeches in inner-city areas in support of neo-Nazism, denouncing immigration. They also publish the \"Nationellt Motstånd\" magazine.\n\nIn November 2003 the Swedish Security Service raided homes of leading members, among them Lund, who was later sentenced to prison for illegal possession of firearms.\n\nIn May 2006, the Swedish Resistance Movement announced that the National Youth organisation and all its activities and members had been merged with the SRM.\n\nIn December 2013, armed NRM members attacked an anti-racist demonstration in Stockholm which resulted in riots and clashes. Many were arrested afterwards.\n\nIn the 2014 Swedish election, two members of the NRM were elected to Sweden Democrats seats in the municipal councils in Ludvika and Borlänge. In what has been described as a \"coup\" their names were added to Sweden Democrats' ballots that were open for additions.\n\nLate in 2015, the NRM was registered as a political party in Sweden, headed by the organization's spokesman, Pär Öberg.\n\nThree men with ties to Swedish NRM were sentenced to prison for respectively eight and a half years, five years, and one and a half years on 7 July 2017 for three bombings in Göteborg which took place in November 2016 and January 2017. One person received life-threatening injuries at the bombing of a refugee centre in Västra Frölunda. The men have appealed the verdict.\n\nOn 30 September 2017, NRM staged a march with roughly 500 members taking part in Sweden's second largest city Göteborg, timed to coincide with the annual Göteborg Book Fair. Fighting broke out between NRM and counterdemonstrators. Twenty-two NRM members including the organisation's leader Simon Lindberg were arrested on suspicion of violent public disorder, and one counter-demonstrator was arrested on suspicion of attacking a police officer. Swedish Jews were outraged at the demonstration, which took place on the Jewish holiday of Yom Kippur and was originally planned to pass near a synagogue. The march was re-routed and shortened following a court ruling.\n\nOn 19 April 2018, fireworks were thrown at the U.S. embassy in Stockholm during a protest against the bombing of Syria. One NRM man was arrested.\n\nOn 6 July 2018, members of the NRM assaulted two pro-Israel activists in Gotland.\n\n\"Suomen Vastarintaliike\" (\"Finnish Resistance Movement\") is the Finnish branch of the Nordic Resistance Movement. It was founded by Esa Henrik Holappa, who would later abandon neo-Nazism and leave the group. Its current leader is Antti Niemi. One of the main tactics has been the planting of propaganda stickers and posters. The members also participate in combat training arranged by the organization. The organisation is also increasingly violent, among other actions attacking anti-racism and gay pride demonstrations.\n\nOn 30 November 2017, the Pirkanmaa District Court banned the Nordic Resistance Movement in Finland. The organisation was banned as it 'flagrantly violated the principles of good practice', according to the court. \nThe ban has been appealed and is not legally binding. A request by the police for a temporary ban was turned down. In September, 2018 the Court of appeal in Åbo upheld the ban, but the verdict can be appealed to the Supreme Court.\n\n\"Norske Motstandsbevegelsen\" (\"Norwegian Resistance Movement\") is the Norwegian chapter of the Nordic Resistance Movement, founded and chaired by Haakon Forwald.\n\nThere have been a few newspaper article on ties of the movement to Iceland, and it has a token website under Icelandic domain.\n\nFormer Muslim Society of Iceland chairperson Salmann Tamimi describes \"a frightening experience\" when confronted by two men who began talking about a demonstration held by the Icelandic National Front (INF) (\"while it had counterprotestors who outnumbered them almost 4 to 1\").\n"}
{"id": "2291063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291063", "title": "Nuwaubian Nation", "text": "Nuwaubian Nation\n\nThe Nuwaubian Nation or Nuwaubian movement () was an American religious cult founded and led by Dwight York. York began founding Black Muslim groups in New York in 1967. He changed his teachings and the names of his groups many times, incorporating concepts from Judaism, Christianity, and many esoteric beliefs.\n\nIn the late 1980s, he abandoned the Muslim theology of his movement in favor of Kemetism and UFO religion. In 1991 he took his community to settle in upstate New York; then they moved near to Eatonton, the county seat of Putnam County in Georgia. His followers built an ancient Egypt-themed compound called Tama-Re and changed their name to the \"United Nuwaubian Nation of Moors.\"\n\nBy 2000, the \"United Nuwaubian Nation of Moors\" had some 500 adherents. They drew thousands of visitors for \"Savior's Day\" (York's birthday). Adherence declined steeply after York was convicted of numerous counts of child molestation and financing violations, and sentenced to 135 years in federal prison in April 2004. The Tama-Re compound was sold under government forfeiture and demolished. The Southern Poverty Law Center described York as a \"black supremacist cult leader\", and has designated the organization as a \"hate group\".\n\nThe group has taken numerous names, including Ansaru Allah Community, Holy Tabernacle Ministries, United Nuwaubian Nation of Moors (after the move to Georgia), Yamassee Native American Moors of the Creek Nation (also used in Georgia when York claimed indigenous ancestry via Egyptian migration and intermarriage with the ancient Olmec) and Nuwaubian Nation of Moors.\n\nThe Nuwaubian Nation was centered exclusively on the person of its founder, Malachi (Dwight) York, who legally changed his name several times, and has used dozens of aliases.\n\nYork was born on June 26, 1935 (also reported as 1945). He began his ministry in the late 1960s, from 1967 preaching to a group he called the Pan-African \"Nubians\" (viz. African Americans) in Brooklyn.\n\nYork founded numerous esoteric or quasi-religious fraternal orders under various names during the 1970s and 1980s, at first along pseudo-Islamic lines, later moving to a loose Afrocentric ancient Egypt theme, eclectically mixing ideas taken from Black nationalism, cryptozoology and UFO religions and popular conspiracy theories.\nDuring the 1980s, he was also active as a musician, as \"Dr. York\" publishing under the \"Passion Records\" label.\n\nYork published some 450 booklets (dubbed \"scrolls\") under numerous pseudonyms. During the late 1990s, he styled himself a messianic founder-prophet of his movement, sometimes claiming divine status or extraterrestrial origin, appearing on his Savior's Day celebrations at Tama-Re.\n\nYork was arrested in May 2002, and in 2003 he pleaded guilty to child sexual abuse after being indicted on 197 counts of child molestation, including charges of sex trafficking of minors across state lines. He was imprisoned. In 2004, he was convicted to a 135-year sentence for transporting minors across state lines in the course of sexually molesting them, racketeering, and financial reporting charges. His convictions were upheld on appeal. York's case was reported as the largest prosecution for child molestation ever directed at a single person in the history of the United States, both in terms of number of victims and number of incidents. The case was described in the book \"Ungodly: A True Story of Unprecedented Evil\" (2007) by Bill Osinski, a reporter who had covered the Nuwaubians in Georgia during the late 1990s.\n\nSome factions of the Black supremacist subculture in the United States appeared to continue to support York as of 2010, portraying his conviction as a conspiracy by the \"White Power Structure\". Malik Zulu Shabazz, chairman of the New Black Panther Party and York's lawyer, described York as \"a great leader of our people [… and] victim of an open conspiracy by our enemy.\"\n\nDuring the 1970s, the group set up bookstores and chapters in Trinidad; Baltimore; and Washington, D.C.. According to former follower Saadik Redd, York had between 2,000 and 3,000 followers during the 1970s. Its headquarters was in Bushwick, Brooklyn, until 1983. A portion of the community moved to Sullivan County, New York, to a site they called Camp Jazzir Abba. More people stayed in Brooklyn until about 1991.\n\nA Muslim cleric, Bilal Philips, published \"The Ansar Cult in America\" in 1988, denouncing the movement as un-Islamic. Phillips relied heavily on testimonies of former adherents in describing the group's beliefs and practices.\n\nIn the late 1980s, York borrowed from numerous religious and esoteric traditions beyond Islam, creating the \"Nuwaubian\" movement. York styled his movement in a mixture of Ancient Egypt and Native American themes. York changed his legal name again, from \"Issa Al Haadi Al Mahdi\" to \"Malachi York,\" effective March 12, 1993.\n\nFormer follower Robert J. Rohan had a critical view of York's changes, as noted in this interview:\n\nAmong its themes, the Nuwaubians borrowed a claim to indigenous ancestry, perhaps from the Washitaw Nation (a Louisiana Black separatist group led by an eccentric 'empress'). They claimed to be indigenous people, named Yamasee (claiming affiliation with the confederation of Muscogee (Creek) Native American nations in the Georgia area) as well as \"Moors.\" They claimed a prehistoric migration to America \"before the continents drifted apart\". At this point, the group called itself \"Yamassee Native American Moors of the Creek Nation\". During the early 2000s, York presided at Tama-Re styled as \"Our Own Pharoah NETER A'aferti Atum-Re\", leader and chief mystagogue of \"The Ancient Egiptian Order.\"\n\nInitially the Nuwaubians were considered eccentric but tolerable. But tensions increased locally when they distributed leaflets attacking whites and claiming racial persecution in a zoning conflict. They had set up a nightclub in a warehouse on their property. They alienated many residents of the area, both black and white.\n\nTensions with county authorities increased in 1998, when the county sought an injunction against construction and uses that violated zoning. At the same time, the Nuwaubian community increased its leafletting of Eatonton and surrounding areas, charging white officials with racial discrimination and striving to increase opposition to them. Threats mounted and an eviscerated dog carcass was left at the home of the county attorney.\n\nWithin Putnam County, the Nuwaubians lost black support, in part by trying to take over the NAACP chapter. But outside, they appealed to national activists, claiming to be racially persecuted in the county. During this period, the group maintained Holy Tabernacle stores \"in more than a dozen cities in the U.S., the United Kingdom and Trinidad,\" and continued to gain revenues from them. York purchased a $557,000 mansion for his own use in Athens, Georgia, about 60 miles away, where the University of Georgia is located.\n\nIn 2001, the group put up their own candidates, associated with the Republican Party, for public office, including sheriff. Their candidates were defeated.\n\nIn conjunction with a Nuwaubian Nation parade held in Augusta, Georgia in February 2001, the office of Augusta mayor Bob Young (1999–2005) published a proclamation written by the Nuwaubian organization, stating the group's beliefs. Quotes include \"the Nuwbuns were the dark, brown-to-black-skin, wooly-hair original Eygyptians.\" \"[T]he Black race's greatness has been accepted in America and many books as people of Timbuktu Africa or the Olmecians from Uganda, Africa, who migrated and walked here to North and South America to set up colonies way before the continental drift.\"\n\nIn an interview with a reporter from \"The Augusta Chronicle,\" Mayor Young said that he had not personally read the statement prior to its release. He explained that his office customarily releases proclamations drafted and submitted for publication by civic groups without subjecting them to substantial content review. He suggested that such proclamations do not constitute official positions of the mayor's office or statements of the mayor's views.\n\nOn May 8, 2002, Tama-Re was raided by a joint force of FBI and ATF agents, state police, and local law enforcement. Although there were fears that the raid would end in violence, no shots were fired during the operation, although tear gas was used by the FBI's Hostage Rescue Team. \n\nYork, along with his wife, was arrested outside of the property the same day on federal charges of child molestation and racketeeering, including transport of minors for sexual use. He was convicted in 2004 by a jury in federal court and sentenced to 135 years in federal prison. His appeal failed, and the US Supreme Court declined to hear the last appeal. Tama-Re was sold in asset forfeiture under the verdict, and the new owners demolished the structures. With the revelations of York's conduct, many followers abandoned the group, although some factions of the Nuwaubian Nation still exist.\nYork is currently incarcerated in ADX Florence, a maximum-security federal prison in Florence, Colorado. He will be eligible for parole in 2122.\n\nIn 2004, seven officers of the Macon, Georgia police department resigned from their jobs in protest against the prosecution of York. Five of those officers were later hired by the Clarke County, Georgia jail as guards. Four of them were fired in 2006 (the fifth resigned) in the wake of charges that they were smuggling Nuwaubianist literature into the jail, corresponding with the prisoner York, encouraging inmates to rebel against white guards, and showing favoritism to Nuwaubian prisoners. The jail commander was fired after he began an investigation of Nuwaubianist influence at the jail. He has said he believes that he was fired because he undertook this investigation.\n\nAs \"Dr. York,\" the movement leader was active as a vocalist and music producer in Brooklyn before leaving the area. During this time, his Nuwaubian teachings had an effect upon hip hop and Black culture in New York. Journalist Adam Heimlich of the \"New York Press\" suggested the following were influenced by York: Jaz-O, Doug E. Fresh, Afrika Bambaataa, Kelvin Mercer (Posdnuos) from De La Soul, Prodigy from Mobb Deep, and MF Doom.\n\nIn his article on York's cult, Heimlich reviewed some of the leader's published works. He wrote that York had borrowed from a variety of sources for his ideas:\n\nAmong the indie hip hop ranks, there are Nuwaubians who perform what they call Nu-wop, such as Daddi Kuwsh, Twinity, Nefu Amun Hotep, 9thScientist, Scienz of Life, Ntelek, Jedi Mind Tricks, Aslaam Mahdi, 720 Pure Sufi, Tos El Bashir and The Lost Children of Babylon. On Where Light's \"Swords of Malachai\", Rasul lets loose: 'When my tongue swings in the form of a double-edged sword, it brings forth Nuwaubu, which is right Knowledge, wisdom and understanding.'\"\n\nIn an article for \"Honor Nation,\" A. L. JakeAl Reum speculated that the controversial Native American kitsch costumes and props from OutKast's 46th Annual Grammy Awards performance in 2004 were inspired by the Nuwaubian belief about the Native Americans being \"Moors\" in origin.\n\nSouthern Poverty Law Center described the Nuwaubianism belief system as \"mix[ing] black supremacist ideas with worship of the Egyptians and their pyramids, a belief in UFOs and various conspiracies related to the Illuminati and the Bilderbergers\" and quoted York's letter dated Nov. 10, 2004 as: \"The Caucasian has not been chosen to lead the world. They lack true emotions in their creation. We never intended them to be peaceful. They were bred to be killers, with low reproduction levels and a short life span.\" Another explanation has Caucasians descend from Cain: \"Adam and Eve were sent to the Aegean Islands between Asia and Europe, where they started having children, and each couple's first born child was an Albino and those Albinos are called Cain in the Bible, and Cain is short for Caucasian.\"\n\nIn 1994 Ghazi Y. Khankan, director of the New York office of the Council on American–Islamic Relations, commented about York and his group based on their history in Brooklyn. He said, \"It's a cult, in my opinion, and in Islam there are no cults. They consider their leader a prophet, which means they have deviated from the Islamic way.\" The superficial similarity of York's beliefs to those of the Heaven's Gate cult led to some worried newspaper articles after that group's mass suicide during the appearance of Comet Hale–Bopp in 1997, in which the cult was reported to have said that a spacecraft was following the comet.\n\nYork taught a number of \"revealing\" pseudo-etymologies of English words, for instance:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6303226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6303226", "title": "Penal Reform International", "text": "Penal Reform International\n\nPenal Reform International (commonly known as PRI) was founded in London in 1989. It is an international nongovernmental organization working on penal and criminal justice reform worldwide.\n\nPRI's stated goal is to promote safe and secure societies where offenders are held to account, victims’ rights are recognised, sentences are proportionate and the primary purpose of prison is social rehabilitation not retribution.\n\nPRI has five offices worldwide. PRI’s Head Office in London (UK) leads and coordinates its cross-regional programmes, international policy and advocacy activities. Its regional offices in the Middle East and North Africa, Central and Eastern Europe, Central Asia and the South Caucasus implement practical programmes and provide technical assistance at a national and regional level. PRI also currently delivers programmes through partners in East Africa and South Asia.\n\nPRI has consultative status at the United Nations (ECOSOC), the Inter-Parliamentary Union, the African Commission on Human and Peoples’ Rights, the African Committee of Experts on the Rights and Welfare of the Child and the Council of Europe.\n\nPRI produces information resources for policy-makers and criminal justice agencies, including research reports, policy briefings and training materials. Publications include Making Law and Policy that Work and more recently, Global Prison Trends, an annual overview of current trends and challenges in policy and practice in the criminal justice and penal fields.\n\nPRI was founded in 1989 by a group of criminal justice and human rights activists after the fall of the Berlin Wall. Founder members include Ahmed Othmani, a former Tunisian political prisoner and activist, and Baroness Vivien Stern.\n\nSince its establishment, PRI has worked at the United Nations to improve norms and standards to strengthen the protection of the rights of people in criminal justice systems.\n\nIt helped to negotiate the 2010 United Nations Rules for the Treatment of Women Prisoners and Non-Custodial Measures for Women Offenders. Between 2011 and 2015, it took part in the negotiations for the revision of the United Nations Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners – renamed ‘the Mandela Rules’ – a key set of standards used in prison administration.\n\nPRI became known in particular for its work in Africa in the 1990s and 2000s, for example, helping to establish the Paralegal Advisory Service (PAS) in Malawi, which became a model for the development of paralegal services in other African countries, and setting up a community service programme in Zimbabwe in 1992 in response to a serious crisis of overcrowding in its prisons. PRI went on to develop community service programmes in Kenya and Burkina Faso, and is working in East Africa today with national probation services develop community service.\n\nPRI also worked with the Rwandan government to deal with the overwhelming number of genocide cases in the late 1990s and early 2000s. This included the development and monitoring of the Gacaca Court (‘grass court’) process.\n\n"}
{"id": "54452363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54452363", "title": "Pere Joan Sala", "text": "Pere Joan Sala\n\nPere Joan Sala (? -1485) was the leader of the radical remensas in the Second War of the Remences, which began with the uprising of Mieres in 1484. Joan Sala was the lieutenant of Francesc de Verntallat, but unlike the latter, JOan Sala was a radical revolutionary who wasn't interested in any treaty with royalty.\n\nThe Second War of the Remences was motivated by attempted legal action against the assets of the peasants who refused to pay the manorial fees. Additionally, there was an alignment of interests and support between the remensas during the first War of the Remences and King John II in the Catalan Civil War. They were aligned both in time (1462-1472) and in their adversary: the Generalitat and the nobility. However, at the end of the Catalan civil war, the king pretty much forgot about the remensas.\n\nThe tried to curb the revolt without success, and the conflict spread throughout the Principality of Catalonia.\n\nIn 1485 in Montornès del Vallès, at the head of 400 peasants, Joan Sala defeated the army of the \"\" commanded by the . Later, Joan Sala took the villa of Granollers, from where the revolt spread through Valles, Maresme and the Baix Llobregat. When the threat to Barcelona became clear, the authorities reacted and defeated them in Les Franqueses del Vallès (Llerona) in March 1485. They then took them prisoner and had them executed.\n\nThis remensa rebellion succeeded in getting the monarchy, headed by Ferdinand II of Aragon son of John II, involved with the cause of the remensas and after much negotiation Ferdinand announced, on April 21, 1486, the \"Sentencia Arbitral de Guadalupe\". This decree forgave the rank-and-file insurrectionists but had severe consequences for the leaders of the revolt.\n\n"}
{"id": "48161794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48161794", "title": "Permanent Secretary (Denmark)", "text": "Permanent Secretary (Denmark)\n\nThe Permanent Secretary (Danish: Departementschef) is the most senior civil servant of a Danish Government ministry, charged with running the department on a day-to-day basis.\n\nPermanent Secretaries currently in office are:\n"}
{"id": "20169107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20169107", "title": "Pyrotherapy", "text": "Pyrotherapy\n\nPyrotherapy (artificial fever) is a method of treatment by raising the body temperature or sustaining an elevated body temperature (caused by a fever). In general, the body temperature was maintained at 41°C (105°F). Many diseases were treated by this method in the first half of the 20th century. In general, it was done by exposing the patient to hot baths, warm air, or (electric) blankets.\n\nOne example is the malariotherapy, the treatment of syphilis by the introduction of malaria, for which Julius Wagner-Jauregg won the Nobel Prize for Medicine in 1927.\n\nThe general paresis of the insane caused by neurosyphilis was effectively overcome by the method.\n\nPyrotherapy was also employed in psychiatry. Of note here is the use of sulfozinum and pyrogenal that was relatively widespread in Soviet psychiatry.\n"}
{"id": "1824964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824964", "title": "Radio Enoch", "text": "Radio Enoch\n\nRadio Enoch was a pirate radio station in the United Kingdom, operating out of the West Midlands, homeland of its namesake, Enoch Powell. Radio Enoch professed a socially right-wing viewpoint, and also extolled the virtues of capitalism and privatisation. The manager claimed it operated as an unlicensed station because its views on race and immigration would prevent it from being able to broadcast in what it deemed a \"socialist\" media. The station also expressed support for the white minority rule governments of Rhodesia and South Africa. The station was launched in 1978, broadcasting hour-long shows monthly.\n\nThe group behind Radio Enoch called themselves \"People Against Marxism\".\n\nThe General Post Office had some trouble in shutting down Radio Enoch although it knew about 200 people were involved with the station. The broadcasts were transmitted from a variety of sites across the United Kingdom, and the authorities were always two steps behind. Transmitting equipment was put into storage between broadcasts.\n\nThe rise of Thatcherism and a more conservative political climate signalled the end of Radio Enoch's usefulness. Its purpose in returning a Conservative government complete, Radio Enoch stopped broadcasting in June 1980, vowing to return if a socialist government returned. It did not return after the New Labour victories from 1997.\n\n"}
{"id": "11508332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11508332", "title": "Ranchos of California", "text": "Ranchos of California\n\nThe Spanish and later Mexican governments encouraged settlement of the coastal region of Alta California (now known as California) by giving prominent men large land grants called \"ranchos\", usually two or more square leagues, or . Land-grant titles (concessions) were government-issued, permanent, unencumbered property-ownership rights to land called ranchos. The ranchos encompassed virtually all of the most valuable land near the coast, around San Francisco Bay, and inland along the Sacramento River and nearby lands in the Central Valley.\n\nDevoted to raising cattle and sheep, the owners of the ranchos attempted to pattern themselves after the landed gentry of Spain. Their workers included Native Americans who had learned to speak Spanish, many of them former Mission residents. \n\nSpain made about 30 grants between 1784 and 1821, and Mexico granted about 270 more between 1833 and 1846. The ranchos established land-use patterns and place names that are still in use in California today. Rancho boundaries became the basis for California's land survey system, and are found on modern maps and land titles. \n\nRanchos were partially based on geography, such as access to river water. Land development in the 20th and 21st century often follow the boundaries of the ranchos, and often retain the original name. For example, \"Rancho San Diego,\" an unincorporated \"rural-burb\" east of San Diego, or \"Rancho Bernardo\", a masterplan suburb in the city of San Diego.\n\nDuring Spanish rule (1769–1821), the ranchos were concessions from the Spanish crown, permitting settlement and granting grazing rights on specific tracts of land, while the crown retained the title. The ranchos, that is, the settlement by individuals of tracts of land outside presidio, mission, and pueblo boundaries, began in 1784, when Juan José Domínguez got permission from Spanish Governor Pedro Fages to put his cattle on the Rancho San Pedro. The land concessions were usually measured in leagues. A league of land would encompass a square that is one Spanish league on each side – approximately . The Spanish and Mexican governments made a large number of grants from 1785 to 1846.\n\nIt was not until the Mexican era (1821–1846) that the titles to the plots of land were granted to individuals. In 1821, Mexico achieved its independence from Spain, and California came under control of the Mexican government. The 1824 Mexican Colony Law established rules for petitioning for land grants in California; and by 1828, the rules for establishing land grants were codified in the Mexican Reglamento (Regulation). The Acts sought to break the land monopoly of the missions and also paved the way for luring additional settlers to California by making land grants easier to obtain. The Mexican Governors of Alta California gained the power to grant state lands, and many of the Spanish concessions were subsequently patented under Mexican law—frequently to local \"friends\" of the governor.\n\nThrough the Mexican secularization act of 1833, the Mexican government repossessed most of the lands initially \"granted\" to the Franciscan missions (about per mission) by the Spanish crown who had \"appropriated\" the land \"for the Mission Indians\". Secularization was implemented between 1834 and 1836. The Mexican government allowed the padres to keep only the church, priest's quarters and priest's garden. The army troops guarding each Mission were dismissed. A commissioner would oversee the mission's crops and herds, while the land was divided up as communal pasture, a town plot, and individual plots for each Indian family. The Mission Indians, freed from the missions, often joined other interior tribes or sought work on the new ranchos along the troops formerly assigned to each mission.\n\nThe number of Mexican land grants greatly increased after the secularization of the missions in 1834. Although the original intent of the secularization legislation was to have the property divided among former surviving Mission Indians, most of the grants were made to local Californios, individuals who had been born in Alta California. \n\nThe Mexican rancho grants were provisional. The boundaries, on paper, had to be \"officially\" surveyed and marked. This produced a 'diseño', a hand-drawn topological map, to define the area. Since there were very few surveyors this requirement was seldom met. The grantee could not initially subdivide or rent out the land. The land had to be used for grazing or cultivated. Some kind of residential house had to be built within a year—most were initially simple adobe walled cabins. Public roads crossing through the property could not be closed. Most rancho grants boundaries and other requirements were not checked by the poorly paid and organized \"government\" of California who had little interest in land that brought in no taxes—money to run the government came from tariffs collected at Monterey, California.\n\nThe Mexican–American War began on May 13, 1846 with a declaration of war by the United States of America. Action in California began with the Bear Flag Revolt on June 15, 1846. On July 7, 1846, US forces took possession of Monterey, the capital of California, and terminated the authority and jurisdiction of Mexican officials that day. Armed resistance ended in California with the Treaty of Cahuenga signed on January 13, 1847. The Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, ending the war, was signed February 2, 1848 and California became a Territory of the United States. Between 1847 and 1849, California was run by the U.S. military. A constitutional convention met in Monterey in September 1849, and set up a state government. It operated for 10 months before California was admitted to the Union as the 31st State by the United States Congress, as part of the Compromise of 1850, enacted on September 9, 1850.\n\nWhile the end of the 1840s saw the close of Mexican control over Alta California, this period also marked the beginning of the rancheros’ greatest prosperity. Cattle had been raised primarily for their hides and tallow, as there was no market for large quantities of beef, especially in the days prior to refrigeration, railroads or ice production. Demand dramatically changed with the onset of the Gold Rush, as thousands of miners and other fortune seekers flooded into northern California. These newcomers needed meat, and cattle prices soared with demand. The rancheros enjoyed the halcyon days of Hispanic California.\n\nThe Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo provided that the Mexican land grants would be honored. To investigate and confirm titles in California, American officials acquired the provincial records of the Spanish and Mexican governments in Monterey.\n\nThe new state's leaders soon discovered that the Mexican government had given a number of grants just before the Americans gained control. The Mexican governors had rewarded faithful supporters, and hoped to prevent the new immigrants from gaining control of the land. Sponsored by California Senator William M. Gwin, in 1851 Congress passed \"An Act to Ascertain and Settle Private Land Claims in the State of California\". The Act required all holders of Spanish and Mexican land grants to present their titles for confirmation before the Board of California Land Commissioners. Contrary to the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, this Act placed the burden of proof of title on landholders. Grantees were required to prove the validity of the grants they had received and establish their exact boundaries. The diseños available were often imprecise. Land had until the gold rush been of little value and boundary locations were often quite vague, referring to an oak tree, a cow skull on a pile of rocks, a creek, and in some cases a mountain range. The 588 grants made by Spanish and Mexican authorities in California between 1769 and 1846 encompassed more than , or nearly .\n\nEven in cases where the boundaries were more specific, many markers had been destroyed before accurate surveys could be made. Aside from indefinite survey lines, the Land Commission had to determine whether the grantees had fulfilled the requirements of the Mexican colonization laws. While the Land Commission confirmed 604 of the 813 claims it reviewed, most decisions were appealed to US District Court and some to the Supreme Court. The confirmation process required lawyers, translators, and surveyors, and took an average of 17 years (including the Civil War, 1861–1865) to resolve. It proved expensive for landholders to defend their titles through the court system. In many cases, they had to sell a portion of their land to pay for defense fees or gave attorneys land in lieu of payment.\n\nRejected Spanish and Mexican land claims resulted in conflicting claims by the grantees, squatters, and settlers seeking the same land. This resulted in pressure on Congress to change the rules. Under the Preemption Act of 1841, squatters were able to pre-empt others' claims to portions of the land and acquire clear title by paying $1.25 an acre for up to a maximum of . Land from titles rejected by the courts became part of the public domain and available to homesteaders after the first federal Homestead Act of 1862 was passed, allowing anyone to claim up to . This resulted in additional pressure on Congress, and beginning with Rancho Suscol in 1863, it passed special acts that allowed certain claimants to pre-empt their land without regard to acreage. By 1866 this privilege was extended to all owners of rejected claims.\n\nA number of ranchos remained in whole or in part in the sliver of territory of Alta California left to Mexico by the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, which then became part of Baja California. Rancho Tía Juana (partially in San Diego County, California) lost its claim to title to its land in San Diego County but the balance of the rancho was confirmed by the Mexican government in the 1880s. Rancho El Rosario, Rancho Cueros de Venado and Rancho Tecate were each granted to citizens of San Diego in the 1820s or 1830s and lay wholly in what is now Baja California as was the Rancho San Antonio Abad, whose origin and title is more obscure. Their titles were never subjected to dispute in U.S. courts.\n\nThe rancheros became land rich and cash poor, and the burden of attempting to defend their claims was often financially overwhelming. Grantees lost their lands as a result of mortgage default, payment of attorney fees, or payment of other personal debts. Land was also lost as a result of fraud. A sharp decline in cattle prices, the floods of 1861–1862, and droughts of 1863–1864 also forced many of the overextended rancheros to sell their properties to Americans. They often quickly subdivided the land and sold it to new settlers, who began farming individual plots.\n\nA shift in the economic dominance of grain farming over cattle raising was marked by the passage of the California \"No-Fence Law\" of 1874. This repealed the Trespass Act of 1850, which had required farmers to protect their planted fields from free-ranging cattle. The repeal of the Trespass Act required that ranchers fence stock in, rather than farmers fencing cattle out. The ranchers were faced with either the high expense of fencing large grazing tracts or selling their cattle at ruinous prices.\n\nThe ranchos established land-use patterns that are still recognizable in contemporary California. Many communities still retain their Spanish rancho name. For example, Rancho Peñasquitos, the first land grant by the Spanish in today's San Diego County, is now a suburb within the city of San Diego. Modern communities often follow the original boundaries of the rancho, based on geographic features and abstract straight lines. Today, most of the original rancho land grants have been dismantled and sold off to become suburbs and rural-burbs. A very small number of ranchos are still owned by descendants of the original owners, retain their original size, or remain undeveloped. \n\nRancho Guejito in San Diego County is considered the last of the San Diego Ranchos to be undeveloped. Only a few historic structures and an 8,000ft² ranch house, built in the 1970s, occupy the 13,300 acres. Benjamin Coates purchased the land in the 1970s after Governor Jerry Brown vetoed a purchase that would have made Guejito a state park. Mr. Coates purchased an additional 8700 acres of surrounding land between the 1970s and his death in 2004. Mr. Coates and his wife Nancy both expressed their wishes that the Rancho remain undeveloped. After her death in 2006, ownership of the land passed to their daughter, Theodate Coates, an artist from New York City. Despite her parents' wishes that development be kept off of the Rancho, Theodate Coates has taken steps to remove Rancho Guejito's status as an agricultural preserve and eventually develop the land into tract housing.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9086116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9086116", "title": "Regulatory capitalism", "text": "Regulatory capitalism\n\nThe term regulatory capitalism suggests that the operation maintenance and development of the global political economy increasingly depends on administrative rules outside the legislatures and the courts.\n\nThe general trend despite and beyond the process of liberalization is that of growth rather than decline of regulation. Deregulation may represent trends in some industries (notably finance), but more regulation is the general trend beyond that characterize modern and post-modern capitalism alike. Regulation in this interpretation is an instrument of organizations—states, business, civil and hybrid and is carried at all political arenas and levels.\n\nThe concept of regulatory capitalism serves as an alternative to concepts like financial capitalism, welfare capitalism, casino capitalism, developmental capitalism, risk capitalism, state capitalism and crony capitalism in an attempt to shed more light on capitalism as a polymorphous order.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1304081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1304081", "title": "Rhineland massacres", "text": "Rhineland massacres\n\nThe Rhineland massacres, also known as the persecutions of 1096 or Gzerot Tatnó ( Hebrew for \"Edicts of 4856\"), were a series of mass murders of Jews perpetrated by mobs of German Christians of the People's Crusade in the year 1096, or 4856 according to the Jewish calendar.\n\nProminent leaders of crusaders involved in the massacres included Peter the Hermit and especially Count Emicho. As part of this persecution, the destruction of Jewish communities in Speyer, Worms and Mainz were noted as the \"Hurban Shum\" (Destruction of Shum). These were new persecutions of the Jews in which peasant crusaders from France and Germany attacked Jewish communities. A number of historians refer to the antisemitic events as \"pogroms\".\n\nAccording to David Nirenberg, the events of 1096 in the Rhineland \"occupy a significant place in modern Jewish historiography and are often presented as the first instance of an antisemitism that would henceforth never be forgotten and whose climax was the Holocaust.\"\n\nThe preaching of the First Crusade inspired an outbreak of anti-Jewish violence. In parts of France and Germany, Jews were perceived as just as much an enemy as Muslims: they were held responsible for the crucifixion, and they were more immediately visible than the distant Muslims. Many people wondered why they should travel thousands of miles to fight non-believers when there were already non-believers closer to home.\n\nIt is also likely that the crusaders were motivated by their need for money. The Rhineland communities were relatively wealthy, both due to their isolation, and because they were not restricted as Catholics were against moneylending. Many crusaders had to go into debt in order to purchase weaponry and equipment for the expedition; as Western Catholicism strictly forbade usury, many crusaders inevitably found themselves indebted to Jewish moneylenders. Having armed themselves by assuming the debt, the crusaders rationalized the killing of Jews as an extension of their Catholic mission.\n\nThere had not been so broad a movement against Jews by Catholics since the seventh century's mass expulsions and forced conversions. While there had been a number of regional persecutions of Jews by Catholics, such as the one in Metz in 888, a plot against Jews in Limoges in 992, a wave of anti-Jewish persecution by Christian millenarian movements (which believed that Jesus was immediately to descend from Heaven) in the year 1000, and the threat of expulsion from Trier in 1066; these are all viewed \"in the traditional terms of governmental outlawry rather than unbridled popular attacks.\" Also many movements against Jews (such as forced conversions by King Robert the Pious of France, Richard II, Duke of Normandy, and Henry II, Holy Roman Emperor around 1007–1012) had been quashed either by Roman Catholicism's papacy or its bishops. The passions aroused in the Catholic populace by Urban II's call for the first crusade moved persecution of Jews into a new chapter in history where these previous constraints no longer held.\nThe extent of the era's antisemitism is apparent in Godfrey of Bouillon, who swore\n\nEmperor Henry IV (after being notified of the pledge by Kalonymus Ben Meshullam, the Jewish leader in Mainz) issued an order prohibiting such an action. Godfrey claimed he never really intended to kill Jews, but the community in Mainz and Cologne sent him a collected bribe of 500 silver marks.\n\nSigebert of Gembloux wrote that before \"a war in behalf of the Lord\" could be fought it was essential that the Jews convert; those who resisted were \"deprived of their goods, massacred, and expelled from the cities.\"\n\nThe first outbreaks of violence occurred in France. According to a contemporary chronicle of events written by an anonymous author in Mainz:\n\nRichard of Poitiers wrote that Jewish persecution was widespread in France at the beginning of the expeditions to the east. The anonymous chronicler of Mainz admired the Jews:\n\nIn June and July 1095 Jewish communities in the Rhineland (north of the main departure areas at Neuss, Wevelinghoven, Altenahr, Xanten and Moers) were attacked, but the leadership and membership of these crusader groups was not chronicled. Some Jews dispersed eastward to escape the persecution.\n\nOn top of the general Catholic suspicion of Jews at the time, when the thousands of French members of the People's Crusade arrived at the Rhine, they had run out of provisions. To restock their supplies, they began to plunder Jewish food and property while attempting to force them to convert to Catholicism.\nNot all crusaders who had run out of supplies resorted to murder; some, like Peter the Hermit, used extortion instead. While no sources claim he preached against the Jews, he carried a letter with him from the Jews of France to the community at Trier. The letter urged them to supply provisions to Peter and his men. The \"Solomon bar Simson Chronicle\" records that they were so terrified by Peter's appearance at the gates that they readily agreed to supply his needs. Whatever Peter's own position on the Jews was, men claiming to follow after him felt free to massacre Jews on their own initiative, to pillage their possessions. Sometimes Jews survived by being subjected to involuntary baptism, such as in Regensburg, where a crusading mob rounded up the Jewish community, forced them into the Danube, and performed a mass baptism. After the crusaders had left the region these Jews returned to practicing Judaism.\n\nIn the spring of 1096, a number of small bands of knights and peasants, inspired by the preaching of the Crusade, set off from various parts of France (Cologne) and Germany (Worms). The crusade of the priest Folkmar, beginning in Saxony, persecuted Jews in Magdeburg and later, on May 30, 1096 in Prague in Bohemia. The Catholic Bishop Cosmas attempted to prevent forced conversions, and the entire Catholic hierarchy in Bohemia preached against such acts. Duke Břetislav II was out of the country and the Catholic Church's officials' protests were unable to stop the mob of crusaders.\n\nThe hierarchy of the Catholic Church as a whole condemned the persecution of the Jews in the regions affected (though their protests had little effect). Especially vocal were the parish priests (only one monk, named Gottschalk, is recorded as joining and encouraging the mob). Chronicler Hugo of Flavigny recorded how these religious appeals were ignored, writing:\n\nIn general, the crusader mobs did not fear any retribution, as the local courts did not have the jurisdiction to pursue them past their locality nor did they have the ability to identify and prosecute individuals out of the mob. The pleas of the clergy were ignored on similar grounds (no cases against individuals were brought forward for excommunication) and the mob believed that anyone preaching mercy to the Jews was doing so only because they had succumbed to Jewish bribery.\nGottschalk the monk went on to lead a crusade from the Rhineland and Lorraine into Hungary, occasionally attacking Jewish communities along the way. In late June 1096, the crusader mob of Gottschalk was welcomed by King Coloman of Hungary, but they soon began plundering the countryside and causing drunken disorder. The King then demanded they disarm. Once their weapons had been secured, the enraged Hungarians fell upon them and \"the whole plain was covered with corpses and blood.\"\n\nThe priest Folkmar and his Saxons also met a similar fate from the Hungarians when they began pillaging villages there because \"sedition was incited\".\n\nThe largest of these crusades, and the most involved in attacking Jews, was that led by Count Emicho. Setting off in the early summer of 1096, an army of around 10,000 men, women and children proceeded through the Rhine valley, towards the Main River and then to the Danube. Emicho was joined by William the Carpenter and Drogo of Nesle, among others from the Rhineland, eastern France, Lorraine, Flanders and even England.\n\nHoly Roman Emperor Henry IV, absent in southern Italy, ordered the Jews to be protected when he learned of Emicho's intent. After some Jews were killed at Metz in May, John, Bishop of Speyer gave shelter to the Jewish inhabitants. Still 12 Jews of Speyer were slain by crusaders on May 3. The Bishop of Worms also attempted to shelter Jews, but the crusaders broke into his episcopal palace and killed the Jews inside on May 18. At least 800 Jews were massacred in Worms when they refused Catholic baptism.\n\nNews of Emicho's crusade spread quickly, and he was prevented from entering Mainz on May 25 by Bishop Ruthard. Emicho also took an offering of gold raised by the Jews of Mainz in hope to gain his favor and their safety. Bishop Ruthard tried to protect the Jews by hiding them in his lightly fortified palace. Nevertheless, Emicho did not prevent his followers from entering the city on May 27 and a massacre followed. Many among the Christian business class (the burghers) in Mainz, had working ties with Jews and gave them shelter from the mobs (as the burghers in Prague had done). The Mainz burghers joined with the militia of the bishop and the burgrave (the town's military governor) in fighting off the first waves of crusaders. This stand had to be abandoned when crusaders continued to arrive in ever greater numbers, and the militia of the bishop together with the bishop himself fled and left the Jews to be slaughtered by the crusaders. Despite the example of the burghers, many ordinary citizens in Mainz and other the towns were caught up in the frenzy and joined in the persecution and pillaging. Mainz was the site of the greatest violence, with at least 1,100 Jews and (possibly more) being killed by troops under Clarambaud and Thomas. One man, named Isaac, was forcefully converted, but later, wracked with guilt, killed his family and burned himself alive in his house. Another woman, Rachel, killed her four children with her own hands so that they would not be cruelly killed by the crusaders.\n\nEliezer b. Nathan, a Jewish chronicler at the times, paraphrased Habakkuk 1:6 and wrote of\n\nOn May 29 Emicho arrived at Cologne, where most Jews had already left or were hiding in Christian houses. In Cologne, other smaller bands of crusaders met Emicho, and they left with quite a lot of money taken from the Jews there. Emicho continued towards Hungary, soon joined by some Swabians. Coloman of Hungary refused to allow them through Hungary. Count Emicho and his warriors besieged Meseberg, on the Leitha. This led Coloman to prepare to flee into Russia, but the morale of the crusader mob began to fail which inspired the Hungarians and most of the mob was slaughtered or drowned in the river. Count Emicho and a few of the leaders escaped into Italy or back to their own homes. William the Carpenter and other survivors eventually joined Hugh of Vermandois and the main body of crusader knights.\n\nLater in 1096, Godfrey of Bouillon also collected tribute from the Jews in Mainz and Cologne, and would have participated in pogroms himself if he had not been ordered by Henry IV not to do so.\nSaint Louis University Professor Thomas F. Madden, author of \"A Concise History of the Crusades\", claims the Jewish defenders of Jerusalem retreated to their synagogue to \"prepare for death\" once the Crusaders had breached the outer walls of the city during the siege of 1099. The chronicle of Ibn al-Qalanisi mentions the building was set fire while the Jews were still inside. The Crusaders were supposedly reported as hoisting up their shields and singing \"Christ We Adore Thee!\" while they circled the fiery complex.\" However, a contemporary Jewish letter written shortly after the siege does not mention the burning synagogue. But playing on the religious schism between the two sects of Judaism, Arabist S.D. Goitein speculates the reason the incident is missing from the letter is because it was written by Karaite Jews and the synagogue belonged to Rabbinic Jews.\n\nFollowing the siege, Jews captured from the Dome of the Rock, along with native Christians, were made to clean the city of the slain. Tancred took some Jews as prisoners of war and deported them to Apuleia in southern Italy. Several of these Jews did not make it to their final destination as \"Many of them were […] thrown into the sea or beheaded on the way.\" Numerous Jews and their holy books (including the Aleppo Codex) were held ransom by Raymond of Toulouse. The Karaite Jewish community of Ashkelon (Ascalon) reached out to their coreligionists in Alexandria to first pay for the holy books and then rescued pockets of Jews over several months. All that could be ransomed were liberated by the summer of 1100. The few who could not be rescued were either converted to Catholicism or murdered. The First Crusade ignited a long tradition of organized violence against Jews in European culture. Jewish money was also used in France for financing the Second Crusade; the Jews were also attacked in many instances, but not on the scale of the attacks of 1096. In England, the Third Crusade was the pretext for the expulsion of the Jews and the confiscation of their money. The two Shepherds' Crusades, in 1251 and 1320, also saw attacks on Jews in France; the second in 1320 also attacked and killed Jews in Aragon.\n\nThe massacre of the Rhineland Jews by the People's Crusade and other associated persecutions were condemned by the leaders and officials of the Catholic Church. The Church and its members had previously carried out policies to protect the presence of Jews in Christian culture. For example, the twenty-five letters regarding the Jews of Pope Gregory I from the late sixth century became the primary texts for the canons, or Church laws, which were implanted to not only regulate Jewish life in Europe but also to protect it. These policies did have limits to them; the Jews were granted protection and the right to their faith if they did not threaten Christianity and remained entirely submissive to Christian rule. These regulations were enacted in a letter by Pope Alexander II in 1063. Their goal was to define the place of the Jews in Christian society. The Dispar nimirum of 1060, was the late eleventh-century papal policy concerning the Jews. It rejected acts of violence and punishments of the Jews, and it enforced the idea of protecting the Jews because they were not the enemy of the Christians. This papal policy aimed at creating a balance of privilege and restrictions on Jews so that the Christians did not see their presence as a threat. Sixty years after the Dispar nimirum, inspired by the atrocities of the First Crusade, the Sicut Judaeis was issued. It was a more detailed and organized text of the position of the papacy concerning the treatment of Jews. This text was enacted by Pope Calixtus II in 1120. It defined the limits of the Jews' eternal servitude and continued the reinforcement of the Jews' right to their faith.\n\nThe bishops of Mainz, Speyer, and Worms had attempted to protect the Jews of those towns within the walls of their palaces. In 1084 Rüdiger Huzmann (1073-1090), bishop of Speyer, established an area for the Jews to live, to protect them from potential violence. Rüdiger's successor, Bishop John, continued the protection of Jews during the First Crusade. During the attack on Speyer, John saved many of the Jews, providing them protection in his castle. Bishop John had the hands of many attackers cut off. Archbishop Ruthard of Mainz tried to save the Jews by gathering them in his courtyard; this was unsuccessful as Emicho and his troops stormed the palace. Ruthard managed to save a small number of Jews by putting them on boats in the Rhine. The Archbishop of Cologne, Hermann II, sent many of the Jews to outlying villages, so that they would be safe from Crusaders. The archbishop of Trier was less effective; he favored protecting the Jews from violence, but during the attack on Trier, he hid and did not take any action to help them. Some bishops, like Albrecht of Magdeburg (1513-1545), went as far as offering the Crusaders silver to spare the Jews.\n\nAfter the First Crusade, there was a continued effort made by the popes to protect the Jews, so that violence that occurred in the Rhineland Valley would not reoccur. In 1272, Pope Gregory X stated that the Jews \"are not capable of harming Christians, nor do they know how to do so.\" Popes continually assured the Christians people that the Jews were not the enemy, the Saracens were because they opposed Christianity. Jews would only become the enemy if they challenged the religion, but for now, the Jews were to be left to live in peace. Following Gregory X's lead, Pope Benedict XIII clearly stated to the Christian people how to treat the Jews. \"Jews are never to be burdened beyond the limits of the present constitution. [They are not] to be molested, to be offered in their persons, or to have their goods seized… [Rather, they are to be treated] humanely and with clemency…\" Benedict enforced the privileges given to the Jews by warning the Christians that their actions toward the Jewish people must not violate those given to them by the Church. Many historians have inaccurately documented the Church's position towards these acts of violence by ignoring the vast efforts of popes, bishops, and priests to ensure the safety of the Jews. It was easier for historians to use the Church as a figure of enforcement to explain the anti-Jewish sentiment that grew and continued past the First Crusade.\n\nFifty years later, when St. Bernard of Clairvaux was urging recruitment for the Second Crusade, he specifically criticized the attacks on Jews that had occurred in the First Crusade. Though Clairvaux considered the Jews to be \"personae non gratae,\" he condemned in his letters the crusaders' attacks on the Jews and ordered protection for Jewish communities. There is debate on Bernard's exact motivations: he may have been disappointed that the People's Crusade devoted so much time and resources to attacking the Jews of Western Europe while contributing almost nothing to the attempt to retake the Holy Land itself, the result being that Bernard was urging the knights to maintain focus on the goal of protecting Catholic interests in the Holy Land. It is equally possible that Bernard held the belief that forcibly converting the Jews was immoral or perceived that greed motivated the original Rhineland massacre: both sentiments are echoed in the canon of Albert of Aachen in his chronicle of the First Crusade. Albert of Aachen's view was that the People's Crusaders were uncontrollable semi-Catholicized country-folk (citing the \"goose incident,\" which Hebrew chronicles corroborate) who massacred hundreds of Jewish women and children and that the People's Crusaders were themselves slaughtered by Muslim forces in Asia Minor.\n\nNews of the attacks spread quickly and reached the Jewish communities in and around Jerusalem long before the crusaders themselves arrived. However, Jews were not systematically killed in Jerusalem, despite being caught up in the general indiscriminate violence caused by the crusaders once they reached the city.\n\nThe Hebrew chronicles portray the Rhineland Jews as martyrs who willingly sacrificed themselves in order to honour God and to preserve their own honour.\n\nSigebert of Gembloux wrote that most of those Jews who converted before the crusader threat later returned to Judaism.\n\nIn the years following the crusade, the Jewish communities were faced with troubling questions about murder and suicide, which were normally sins for Jews just as they were for Catholics. The Rhineland Jews looked to historical precedents since Biblical times to justify their actions: the honourable suicide of Saul, the Maccabees revolt against Antiochus IV Epiphanes, the suicide pact at Masada, and the Bar Kochba revolt were seen as justifiable deaths in the face of a stronger enemy. Despite this, the suicidal and homicidal nature of the Rhineland Jews' actions largely separated the events of 1096 from previous incidents in Jewish history. While the events of Masada most closely parallel those of the Rhineland Massacres, it is important to note that the dramatic suicides of that event were often downplayed by Rabbinic scholars, even to the point of Masada's total omission from some Rabbinic histories. Consequently, the deaths of the Rhineland Jews still held a great deal of novelty and presented confusion for both contemporary and subsequent theologians and historians.\n\nThe Biblical moment that was most commonly evoked by chroniclers of the Rhineland Massacres was the Binding of Isaac, to which several allusions appear throughout the major primary sources, the \"Mainz Anonymous\", the \"Soloman bar Simson Chronicle\", and the \"Eliezer bar Nathan Chronicle\" (though allusions to this moment persist beyond these sources, and even in to more modern interpretations). Although it was the most common Biblical reference, the details of the Binding of Isaac presented significant dissimilarities (alongside definite parallels) that put the actions of the Rhineland Jewry at odds with the Biblical narrative. While Isaac was spared from sacrifice by divine intervention, the Jews of the Rhineland committed their ritual suicide to its end. This influenced novel interpretations of the binding of Isaac. The \"Soloman bar Simson Chronicle\" interprets the sacrifice of the Rhineland Jews as a similar, though even greater expression of righteousness and piety than that of Abraham, a theme echoed throughout other chronicles of the events. Similarly, a preexisting alternative Midrashic reading of the Binding of Isaac claiming that Isaac truly was sacrificed gained a newfound popularity following the events of 1096. Still, a total synthesis of the Binding of Isaac (particularly as a condemnation of human sacrifice) with the ritual deaths of 1096 was never quite achieved, and remains an inconsistency between Jewish theology and historical practice.\n\nSeveral 20th century Jewish authors have related the events of 1096 to an underlying theme of human sacrifice. Historian Israel Yuval understood these choices as a manifestation of a Messianic theology that was uniquely tied to medieval Jews living in the midst of Latin Christendom. This theology understood the Messiah's coming as a time of vengeance against those that transgressed against God and the Jewish people, as well as a process that was sensitive to the blood of Jewish martyrs. Such ideas are alluded to in the \"Sefer Hasidim\", a work of the twelfth century consisting of an amalgamation of Rabbinic teachings common to the era and the centuries immediately preceding it. Additionally relevant was a medieval Ashkenazi genealogical interpretation of Christians as descendants of the Biblical Esau (referred to as Edomites), over whom the Jews (the descendants of Jacob) would eventually succeed and gain dominion. Following from this, the events of 1096 presented an opportunity for the Rhineland Jews to ritually offer their deaths as an example of Christian transgression and spur the Messianic Age - an analysis supported by the frequent ritual tone and symbolism employed by Jewish chroniclers while describing the deaths, and their somewhat lesser interest for Jews who simply died by Christian hands directly. This included frequent descriptions of suicides occurring within synagogues (which were on occasion burning), and the shedding of blood on the Holy Ark. Despite this, somewhat more \"post hoc\" explanations provided by Medieval Jewish chroniclers also existed. Most often, the homicide of the Rhineland children was explained by the adage \"lest they dwell among the Gentiles; it is better that they die innocent and not guilty\", meaning that it was better to kill Jewish children and prevent them from losing their religion, then allow them to die later as a non-Jew. The descriptions of Jewish parents killing their children was shocking to Christian ears, and may have served as fuel for later accusations of blood libel.\n\nPrevious to the Crusades, the Jews were divided among three major areas which were largely independent of one another. These were the Jews living in Islamic nations (still the majority), those in the Byzantine Empire and those in the Roman Catholic West. With the persecutions that began around 1096, a new awareness of the entire people took hold across all of these groups, reuniting the three separate strands.\n\nIn the late 19th century Jewish historians used the episode as a demonstration of the need for Zionism (that is, for a new Jewish state).\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51338227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51338227", "title": "Ruth Frow", "text": "Ruth Frow\n\nRuth Frow (1922–2008) was a peace activist and historian of the labour movement. She co-founded the Working Class Movement Library in Salford, a collection of material associated with labour and working class history.\n\nRuth Engel was born on 28 July 1922 in St John’s Wood in London. Her father, Leon Alfred Mayer Engel, was a concert pianist and a traveling sales representative in embroideries. Her mother, Ethel Maud Engel, was originally Irish catholic but converted to Judaism, her husband’s faith, on their marriage. Ruth attended a Jewish synagogue, but had a largely secular upbringing, and she attended a local private girls’ school.\n\nThe family moved to an estate built by a cousin, Engel Park in Mill Hill, when Frow was five. Her father died when she was thirteen.\n\nUpon leaving school, she enroled in the Women's Auxiliary Air Force in April 1940, though underage, working in the RAF Fighter Command control room and on radar. Her altered date of birth is recorded in her discharge papers, along with a commendation of her service. She spent four and a half years in the WAAF. Here she met her first husband, Denis Edmund Haines, an electrical engineer, and the pair married on 25 July 1944. She left the WAAF when she became pregnant, towards the end of 1944.\n\nIn 1945 she joined the Communist Party in Sandwich, Kent, on the recommendation from local miners to join over the Labour Party. She found the Communist Party an ideologically- and socially-attractive space as an activist and a women not wishing to return to a purely domestic role post-war. \n\nFollowing the Second World War, Frow enrolled in the Emergency Teacher Training Scheme, and became a teacher in 1949. She was a trade union activist and member of the National Union of Teachers. She was Secretary of Teachers for Peace and Manchester branch of the Peace Committee, and was elected Vice-Chair of the Manchester Campagin for Nuclear Disarmament.\n\nIn the 1950s she lived for a time with Communist party members Bill Wainwright and Molly Wainwright.\n\nShe met her second husband, Edmund 'Eddie' Frow, in 1953 at a day school on labour history in Sussex, and they married in 1961. The pair were enthusiastic collectors of books, pamphlets and ephemera to do with labour history and the labour movement.\n\nThe couple were both awarded honorary degrees from the University of Salford in 1989.\n\nAlong with her husband Edmund, Frow was the founder of the Working Class Movement Library in Manchester. The library was originally the personal book collection of the couple, to which scholars or students of labour history could access for free. In 1972 the Frows established the library as a Charitable Trust, allowing it to be accessible as an education resource.\n\nTheir collection of books and ephemera grew so extensive, in 1987 it was re-housed by Salford Council in a converted nursing home, in which it still retained; Jubilee House on The Crescent in Salford. The offer from the council was accepted over similar offers from universities, in order to avoided limited access for workers to their own history.\n\nIn 1989 Ruth and Edmund Frow were awarded the Commendation of Merit by the Library Association for their service to the library profession.\n\nThe Library is regarded as one of Britain's most important collections on working class history, with more than 30,000 rare books, pamphlets, photographs and other materials.\n\nFrow, often along with her husband Edmund, published extensively on historical and political issues. Her writings were aimed at a variety of wide audiences.\n\n\nFrow was a former Middlesex county junior tennis player.\n\nRuth and Edmund Frow spent many years travelling Britain in a caravan, described in their book \"Travels with a Caravan\". Before moving to a home in Salford, they lived in a flat within the library.\n\nFrow died January 11 2008. A a celebration of her life was held on 5th April 2008 at the Peel Hall at the University of Salford.\n\nThe papers of Ruth and Edmund Frow are held in the Working Class Movement Library in Salford.\n"}
{"id": "1997732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997732", "title": "School meal", "text": "School meal\n\nA school meal or school lunch (also known as hot lunch, a school dinner, or school breakfast) is a meal provided to students and sometimes teachers at a school, typically in the middle or beginning of the school day. Countries all over the world have various kinds of school meal programs. Millions of children from all standards and grades get their meals at their respective schools every day. School meals provide high-energy food with high nutritional values either free, or at economical rates.\n\nThe benefits of school meals vary from country to country. While in developed countries the school meal is a source of nutritious meals, in developing countries it is an incentive to send children to school and continue their education. In developing countries, school meals provide food security at times of crisis and help children to become healthy and productive adults, thus breaking the cycle of poverty and hunger. In all cases, school meals allow children to focus on their studies, without hunger as a distraction. \n\nSweden, Finland, Estonia and India are among the few countries which provide free school meals to all pupils in compulsory education, regardless of their ability to pay. Many countries provide meals to improve attendance rates. In India, where all the Government School students are provided with free lunch meals (Midday Meal Scheme), staple food that varies between different states and regions, is provided along with free education.\n\nIn high-income countries, free meals are usually available only to children who meet income-based criteria. \n\nA study of a free school meal program in the United States found that providing free meals to elementary and middle school children in areas characterized by high food insecurity led to better school discipline among the students.\n\nReduced price meals are also available in some countries to those who need a degree of assistance with costs. Lower-cost meals are available to students in such countries as France, Italy, Hong Kong, Japan, and the United States.\n\nWhen they are not provided to all students, free school meals can stigmatize children who do receive them. Studies have shown that many children entitled to free meals do not take them, and those who do may suffer negative consequences. Additionally, not all children who could benefit from free or reduced-price lunch qualify for it. Organizations such as the Child Poverty Action Group have called for school meals to be provided free of charge for all pupils to address these issues. In the United States, Share Our Strength has funded free-school-meal-to-all pilot programs in some school districts.\n\nGrowing rates of obesity in children have encouraged governments to provide healthier, more balanced school lunches.\n\nFor example, in the United Kingdom, significant changes have been made from when school meals were introduced in the nineteenth century. The first National School Meals Policy was published across the United Kingdom in 1941. The Policy set the first nutritional guidelines for school lunches, requiring balanced meals which include the appropriate levels of protein, fat, and calories.\n\nSchool lunches in Denmark commonly include items like fruit, roasted duck, potatoes, and red or white cabbage.\n\nIn Estonia, free school dinners are served in elementary and secondary schools.\n\nFinland provides free, catered hot school meals to all pupils from pre-primary to upper secondary education every school day, as guaranteed by the 1948 Basic Education Act. Section 31 of the Basic Education Act states: \"A pupil attending basic education shall be provided with a balanced and appropriately organized and supervised meal on every school day.\"\n\nSome Finnish cities had offered poor students free school dinners since the beginning of the 20th century. For example, Kuopio did so starting in 1902, and extended school dinners to all students in 1945.\n\nAccording to Finnish National Board of Education statistics from the year 2014, the average school meal was valued at 2.80 euros per student-school day, totaling 532 euros per student for the school year. This sum included ingredients, labor costs, kitchen equipment, and other fixed expenses, but neither property costs nor taxes.\n\nChildren taking part in before- and after-school activities are also served a free healthy snack.\n\nLunches for higher education students (like those attending universities and polytechnics) are also subsidized in Finland. Kela, the Social Insurance Institution of Finland, compensates student meals that fulfill the nutritional and pricing criteria for government meal subsidies. This program's purpose is to promote positive health and nutritional trends among students. The program accommodates special dietary needs – whether in connection with religion, ethical beliefs, or health issues – without extra costs.\n\nFree school meals in Finland are viewed as an investment for the future; the aim is to maintain and improve children's health, well-being, and learning. The school meal is used as a pedagogical tool for teaching table manners, food culture, nutrition, and healthy eating habits, as well as for increasing the consumption of vegetables, fruits and berries, wholemeal bread, and skimmed or low-fat milk. One of the basic lessons is cooperation between students, head teachers, teachers, parents, and catering staff. In many schools, students participate in the work of the school canteen during their . Most schools have a school meal committee where students, teachers, and catering staff develop school catering together. Most schools also welcome parents to come and taste school meals. There are always adults present in the school restaurant. The pedagogical role of the school catering staff is seen as important, as is teachers' knowledge of nutrition. In 2009, Finland began developing school meal and nutrition education for teachers, and pedagogical education for school catering personnel.\n\nNational and local regulations form the basis for Finnish school meal practices. Education acts and decrees and local curricula are central documents governing school meals. Local and school-level curricula define the central principles of arranging school catering. The curricula also describe the objectives for education in health, nutrition, and manners. The health-related and social role of school meals, the objectives of teaching nutrition and manners, and the recreational aspect of lunch breaks are taken into account when arranging school meals and snacks. Students are allowed at least 30 minutes for eating, after which they have a short recess outdoors.\n\nSchool lunches can also be a channel for empowering local food producers. Introducing locally produced fish to the offerings of institutional kitchens, such as school canteens, is an ethical and ecological alternative to mass-produced meat or imported fish.\n\nSchool meals generally consist of typical Finnish foods. A basic school meal consists of a warm main course, vegetables, bread, a table spread, and a drink. The school lunch is calculated to equate to about one-third of a child’s daily nutritional needs. School catering is designed to follow the National Nutrition Council's dietary guidelines for schools. The recommendations for school meals are being updated during the year 2016.\n\nNormally, Finnish schools provide lunch at school canteens in the form of a buffet, where pupils serve themselves as much as they want. Schools often use a model plate to guide eating habits towards the following recommendations:\n\nChildren with special dietary needs – whether in connection with religion, ethical beliefs or health issues – are entitled to a special diet without costs. School menus are designed to be suitable for most students, with minor adjustments if needed. If a child has special dietary needs, their school requires specific information about those needs to ensure food safety and the elimination of possible cross contamination. In the case of health-related special diets, schools require the assessment of a doctor, nurse, or dietitian.\n\nAs with school lunches, before- and after-school snacks are used as a pedagogical tool in teaching children about proper nutrition, table manners, and food culture. Snacks are designed to offer variety and take into consideration Finnish Nutrition Recommendations as well as children’s individual needs.\n\nFinland has no national accreditation system to evaluate the quality of school lunches. However, by the end of 2015, over 200 schools had been awarded the School Lunch Diploma. The diploma certifies a school's commitment to the national standards and recommendations for nutritionally, educationally, and ecologically sustainable school lunches. It is also an indication of excellent collaboration among interest groups within the school. The School Lunch Diploma is coordinated by the Finnish Kitchen Professionals Association.\n\nIn the 1970s, the French government began to work on improving school lunches. In 1971, the government established nutritional guidelines for French school meals. The 1971 food recommendation guidelines stated that each meal should contain raw vegetables, such as salads and fruits; protein in the form of milk or other dairy products; cooked vegetables twice per week; and carbohydrates on the remaining days.\n\nIn France, lunch is considered the most important meal of the day. Students can get lunch at school or go home for it. The lunch break is one to two hours long. French students are taught to take time to savor and enjoy their meals. Students have to pay for cafeteria lunches; the cost of the meal varies by region. A student's family pays for half of the meal, while the school pays for the remainder. For example, a typical meal may cost $6, with the family paying $3 instead of the full price.\n\nThe 2001 food recommendation guidelines, signed by the Minister for National Education, state that school lunches must be healthy and balanced. Menus vary daily, and are posted for parents. Specifically, the guidelines state that:\n\nSchool cafeterias serve five-course meals, even for preschoolers. Schoolchildren eat the same things as adults. A school lunch in France contains an appetizer, salad, main course, cheese plate, and dessert. Bread may accompany each meal. A menu might include potato leek soup, carrot and bean salad, lamb with saffron, an assortment of cheeses, and grapefruit. Each meal is accompanied with water.\n\nFrench schools do not have vending machines.\n\nSchool meals in Italy provide regular Italian cuisine, although they may vary among regions and towns. The Italian government is very \"down to people\" and is doing a large-scale study to measure and involve students in food habits, diets, and food choices.\n\nNorwegian school lunches were supplied from Sweden during World War II, partly privately financed. Later, all public school lunches were discontinued, so most Norwegian students bring a packed lunch from home. In 2007, schools began providing one free piece of fruit each day for all pupils in grades 8–10. Norwegian schools also sell subsidized milk.\n\nSchool lunches have been free in Swedish elementary schools since 1973. The government or municipality covers all charges. Normally, school lunches are buffet-style. Buffets chiefly include potatoes, pasta or rice; meat or fish; and vegetables. Milk and water are usually offered as drinks. There are also vegetarian options, as well as foods that meet religious requirements; these foods are also free of charge. Upper secondary schools do not have to provide meals for their students, but many, both public and charter schools do.\n\nUsually, each municipality signs a private contract with a catering company which provides school food. Many of the food products are imported, but still have a good standard. In many schools, teachers or the school principal eat with the pupils, with the goal of creating a stronger connection between students and school authorities. In Swedish schools there are also international food weeks, or vegetarian weeks.\n\nSchool meal programs in the United Kingdom can be traced back to the Education (Provision of Meals) Act 1906.\n\nIn 1944, the United Kingdom required local authorities to provide school dinners that were consistent with legal nutritional requirements. The government paid the full cost of school meals in 1947. Free school meals were available to children with families on very low incomes. As a result, from the 1950s onward, staple traditional \"school dinner\" foods became embedded in the national psyche. \"School puddings\" in particular refers to desserts historically served with school dinners in state and private schools. Examples include tarts such as gypsy tart and Manchester tart, and hot puddings such as spotted dick and treacle sponge pudding.\n\nIn the 1980s, Margaret Thatcher's Conservative government ended entitlement to free meals for thousands of children, and obliged local authorities to open up provision of school meals to competitive tender. This was intended to reduce the cost of school meals provided by local authorities. However, it caused a substantial decrease in the standard of school food. A 1999 survey by the Medical Research Council suggested that despite rationing, children in 1950 had healthier diets than their counterparts in the 1990s, with more nutrients and less fat and sugar.\n\nThis became a major topic of debate in 2004, when chef Jamie Oliver spearheaded a campaign to improve the quality of school meals. At this time, school dinners at state schools were normally made by outside caterers. The schools sold a lot of deep-fried fast food, like chips, fried turkey nuggets, pizza, and pies. After the \"Jamie's School Dinners\" programme was shown on Channel 4, sections of the public showed support for increased school meal funding, causing the government to create the School Food Trust. This topic became a factor in the 2005 UK general election.\n\nMartha Payne's blog NeverSeconds, which discussed the quality of school meals at her primary school in Lochgilphead, made national headlines after gaining support from Jamie Oliver.\n\nSince September 2014, all infant pupils in England's schools have been entitled to a free hot meal at lunchtime every day. This was an initiative of Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg, who launched the plan at the Liberal Democrats conference in 2013. At the initiative's inception, the government was paying £2.30 for each meal taken by newly eligible pupils.\n\nThe British government uses entitlement to free school meals as a measure of deprivation. For the financial year 2014-2015, the government paid schools a premium of £1,300 for primary-aged pupils, or £935 for secondary-aged pupils, for each eligible child. 11% of families entitled to free meals do not claim them, which means that their schools do not receive the extra funding. It was unclear in 2014 how this would be affected by the introduction of universal free meals for the youngest British schoolchildren.\n\nSince January 2015, the Scottish government has provided free school meals for all children in Primary One to Three.\n\nThe National Union of Teachers supports free school meals for all children. Fiona Twycross campaigned to persuade the Labour Party to commit to providing universal free school meals. She argues that according to the Institute for Fiscal Studies and the National Centre for Social Research, free school meals for all students significantly increases attainment in schools.\n\nA typical school lunch in the People's Republic of China includes staple food, meat diet, vegetable dish, and each school has different kind of dishes. Students can choose between two and three dishes according to their preferences, with a staple food, usually rice. \n\nThe roots of India's school meal programme can be traced back to the pre-independence era, when a mid day meal programme was introduced in 1925 in Madras Corporation by the British administration.. This was one of the oldest free food programmes for schoolchildren. In 1975, the Indian government created the Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) programme. Under the Midday Meal Scheme, government high schools and partially aided schools, along with Anganwadis, provide midday meals to students. The meals are free of cost and meet guidelines that have been set by policy.\n\nBy 1998, India had deployed the National Programme of Nutritional Support to Primary Education (NP-NSPE) scheme. During the 2013-2014 school year, the scheme covered 104 million children in 1.16 million schools.\n\nThe Akshaya Patra Foundation, a public-private partnership in the Midday Meal Program, is a school meal program run by a non-governmental organization. Akshaya Patra started serving 1,500 children in the year 2000. Today it serves lunch to over 1.4 million school children in 10 Indian states every day.\n\nA single afternoon lunch usually contains a cereal which is locally available, made in a way that conforms to prevailing local customs. Each child receives milk, and either soup or vegetables cooked as curry. The menu is occasionally varied to appeal to students.\n\nChildren in private schools usually carry their own lunch boxes. Many schools also have canteens, and street food vendors can often be found in front of school campuses.\n\nBeing a developing country, government schools in Indonesia fail to provide students with lunch meals. Rather, students would buy street food, also known as \"gorengan\", or bring a packed lunch from home. A typical school lunch would include rice, meatball soup, tofu, and vegetables. More fortunate students enrolled in private schools have the advantage of having lunch served to them or a fully packed canteen with different stalls where they could buy food during break time.\n\nIn the 1960s, Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi had intended a non-violent regeneration of Iranian society through economic and social reforms called the White Revolution. The reforms' long-term goal was to transform Iran into a global economic and industrial power. The White Revolution consisted of 19 elements that were introduced over a period of 15 years. In 1975, the Shah started a program for 'Free and Compulsory Education and a daily free meal' for all children from kindergarten to 14 years of age. It provided one-third of a pint of free milk to all children in Iran, as well as pistachios, fresh fruit, and biscuits.\n\nIn Japan, the tradition of providing school lunches started in the early 20th century. After World War II, which brought near-famine conditions to the country, the Japanese government re-introduced school lunches in urban areas. School lunch was extended to all elementary schools in Japan in 1952. With the enactment of the School Lunch Law in 1954, school meals were extended to junior high schools as well.\n\nThese early lunches initially included items such as bread, bread rolls, and skimmed milk powder (replaced in 1958 by milk bottles and cartons). Later, lunches were expanded to include flour donated by an American charity; a dessert; and a dish (such as daikon) that changed daily. Other dishes included inexpensive protein such as stewed bean dishes, fried white fish, and, until the 1970s, whale meat. Provisions of rice were introduced in 1976, following a surplus of government-distributed Japanese rice, and became increasingly frequent during the 1980s. Hamburg steak, stew and Japanese curry became staples as well.\n\nAs of 2004, 99% of elementary school students and 82% of junior high school students in Japan ate \"kyūshoku\" (school lunch). The food is grown locally, is almost never frozen, and (barring dietary restrictions) is the same for every student. Children in most districts cannot bring their own meals to school until they reach high school, nor do schools have vending machines; instead, children are taught to eat what they are served.\n\nIn both elementary school and middle school, students put on white coats and caps and serve their classmates, who then all eat together in their classrooms instead of in a cafeteria.\n\nTo make lunches affordable for students, municipalities pay for the labor costs, while parents, who are billed monthly, pay for the ingredients. These typically cost about 250 to 300 yen (about USD $3) per meal per student. There are reduced-price and free options for poorer families.\n\nThe daily bento boxes are designed by nutritionists to provide a balanced yet tasty meal for schoolchildren, working especially to appeal to picky or unhealthy eaters. According to Chico Harlan:\n\nCommon dishes range from Asian myeon, tom yam, and ma po tofu, to Western foods such as spaghetti, stew, and clam chowder.\n\nIn most Malaysian schools, regardless of whether they are public or private schools, students eat in a canteen where they purchase food and drinks from vendors. School canteens usually offer Malay, Chinese, and Indian foods, with varieties of rice, noodles, and breads. The average Malaysian school canteen offers varieties of Nasi Lemak, Nasi Goreng, Chicken Rice, Popiah, and Laksa.\n\nSchool canteens sell food and drinks at reduced prices. Underprivileged students can apply for the free-food program which, depending on the school, is either sponsored by the school's parent-teacher association or by the Ministry of Education. Low-income students may also be eligible for the School Milk Program, which is funded by milk companies and non-governmental organizations.\n\nSchool meals in the Philippines appear to be relatively simplistic, consisting mainly of rice, meat, and gravy.\n\nSchool meals in most Singaporean primary and secondary schools, as well as junior colleges, are provided in each school's canteen (or tuckshop). The canteens consist of stalls which sell a variety of foods as well as beverages. To cater to the many races, religions, and cultures in Singapore, canteens often offer a range of cuisines, like Chinese, Indian, Malay, and Western foods.\n\nTo encourage healthier eating habits among children, the Health Promotion Board of Singapore launched the Healthy Eating in Schools Programme, which gives an award to schools which serve healthy meals. To receive the award, schools must reduce the sugar content in drinks and desserts, serve fewer deep-fried and fatty foods, and include two servings of greens in their meals.\n\nSchool lunches in South Korea include traditional foods like rice and kimchi (fermented cabbage). Other dishes may include sesame leaves stuffed with rice and covered with honey sauce; pumpkin potato soup; pancakes made of egg batter and green onions, with optional peppers and octopus; and cucumber-and-carrot salads.\n\nIn most schools, the students set and hand out the various dishes, and then clean them up.\n\nDue to the economic boom, obesity has developed into a known health concern amongst adolescents in the United Arab Emirates. The past three decades have seen the largest increases in child obesity. Studies have shown that rates of obesity among the UAE's schoolchildren have surpassed the child obesity rates in both the United States and Europe. Traditional cuisine in the Persian Gulf region, once high-fibre and low-fat, has become Westernized, and now consists of many more high-fat, high-sodium, and high-cholesterol foods. Exercise levels among children have also decreased rapidly, causing the surge of obesity in adolescents.\n\nCanada has no national school meal program, and elementary schools are usually not equipped with kitchen facilities. Parents are generally expected to provide a packed lunch for their children to take to school, or have their children return home to eat during the lunch period. However, some non-profit organizations dedicated to student nutrition programs do exist.\n\nMost Canadian middle schools (grades 6-8) and high schools (grades 9-12) have cafeterias that serve hot meals.\n\nSchool lunches at the national level began as a temporary New Deal project in 1933. By 1935 it was run by the WPA in 1935-42, as a way to employ the unemployed, feed hungry children, and reduce crop surpluses. It was ended in World War II when the WPA closed. In 1937 the WPA reported, \"In the past year and a half 80,000,000 hot well-balanced meals have been served at the rate of 500,000 daily in 10,000 schools throughout the country.\"\n\nThe permanent National School Lunch Program was created in 1946, with the National School Lunch Act. This legislation won rural support because it removed surplus food from the market and thus raised prices paid to farmers. Congress intended these meals to promote and protect child nutrition, while also supporting the consumption of American farm products.\n\nToday, the National School Lunch Program is a federal nutrition assistance program operating in over 101,000 public schools, non-profit private schools, and residential care institutions. It is regulated and administered at the federal level by the Food and Nutrition Service of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA). The program provides \"nutritionally balanced meals\" at low or no cost to more than 31 million children each school day.\n\nSince its inception, the Program has expanded substantially. It now includes the School Breakfast Program, the Snack Program, a Child and Adult Care Food Program, and the Summer Food Service Program. At the State level, the National School Lunch Program is usually administered by state education agencies, which operate the program through agreements with school food authorities.\n\nSchool meal programs in the United States provide meals free of charge, or at a reduced (government-subsidized) price, to the children of low-income families. Those who do not qualify for free or reduced price are charged a nominal fee.\n\nGenerally, private schools cannot participate in the school lunch program. Public or nonprofit private residential child care institutions may or may not participate. School districts and independent schools that choose to take part in the program get minimal cash subsidies and donated commodities from the USDA for each meal they serve. In return, they must serve lunches that meet federal requirements, and they must offer free or reduced-price lunches to eligible children. School food authorities can also be reimbursed for snacks served to children through age 18 in after-school education or enrichment programs.\n\nThere is some controversy over the fact that the USDA is simultaneously responsible for promoting health through nutritious school meals and diet guidelines, and for promoting the consumption of major agricultural products such as dairy and pork. Critics say this is an innate conflict of interest, evident in the degree to which setting the National School Lunch Program standards remains a political process, influenced to a degree by food industry lobbyists. These critics argue that school meals' nutritional standards do not include some of the basics needed for a healthy diet, as established by nutrition science.\n\nOther controversy stems from students individual needs and the increase in food allergies \n\nSchool lunches must meet the applicable recommendations of the Dietary Guidelines for Americans. These guidelines state that no more than 30 percent of an individual's calories should come from fat, and less than 10 percent from saturated fat. Regulations also state that school lunches must provide one-third of the Recommended Dietary Allowances of protein, Vitamin A, Vitamin C, iron, calcium, and calories. School lunches must meet federal nutrition requirements over the course of one week's worth of lunches. However, local school food authorities may make decisions about which specific foods to serve and how they are prepared.\n\nVending machines in schools are also a major source of competitive food for students. Under pressure from parents and anti-obesity advocates, many school districts moved to ban sodas, junk foods, and candy from vending machines and cafeterias. Various laws have also been passed to limit foods sold in school vending machines. With increasing concern over traditional vending machines in schools, healthier vending options have gained popularity and are steadily being adopted by schools around the nation. Marketing for such \"healthy vending machines\" states that they allow students to perform better in school while also attaining better health.\n\nIn April 2012, the State of Osun in Nigeria pioneered a statewide school meals programme for all public elementary school pupils. It is called the O'Meals programme (an acronym for the Osun Elementary School Feeding and Health Programme). As of July 2014, it was providing lunch to over 252,000 children in 100% of Osun's elementary schools. In addition to staples such as rice, beans, and yams served with stews, soups, and vegetables, the programme provides daily fruits. Its estimated cost is N50 (USD $0.31) per child per day.\n\nAccording to a report on O'Meals' benefits:\n\nAll food items are sourced locally from farmers and others on the supply chain, enhancing employment within the state. Addressing child malnutrition has raised students' academic performance, and has increased school enrollment by 24% compared to figures from before April 2012.\n\nIn 2015, the manifesto of the All Progressives Congress (APC) advocated for the adoption of a nationwide free meal plan. Since he became President, Muhammadu Buhari has made the implementation of this policy one of his foremost priorities. A national School Meals programme is the subject of a budgetary proposal before the National Assembly. Also, the government of Kaduna State has implemented a school feeding programme.\n\nThe Healthy Kids Association (previously The Healthy Kids School Canteen Association) is a not-for-profit, non-governmental, health promotion organization based in Sydney, Australia. It is a peak organisation for school canteens in New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory (ACT).\n\nIn Australia, many school canteens have returned to offering junk food, or pupils have started buying fast food outside their schools. The association has developed policies intended to counter these trends; in some schools, they have taken over providing school food.\n\nIn response to the 2002 Childhood Obesity Summit, former Premier of New South Wales Bob Carr launched the \"Fresh Tastes NSW Healthy School Canteen Strategy.\" Healthy Kids has become a key partner of the Ministry of Health in developing this plan. The strategy is to develop a taste for healthier foods among schoolchildren by promoting and featuring healthier menu options, while limiting the availability of less nutritious foods. The program's menu guide was partially created by Rosemary Stanton.\n\nGeneral:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26220546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26220546", "title": "Shelley v. Kraemer", "text": "Shelley v. Kraemer\n\nShelley v. Kraemer, 334 U.S. 1 (1948), is a landmark United States Supreme Court case holding that the State-Action Doctrine includes the enforcement of private contracts, the Equal Protection Clause prohibits racially restrictive housing covenants, and that such covenants are unenforceable in court.\n\nIn 1945, an African-American family by the name of Shelley purchased a house in St. Louis, Missouri. At the time of purchase, they were unaware that a restrictive covenant had been in place on the property since 1911. The restrictive covenant prevented \"people of the Negro or Mongolian Race\" from occupying the property. Louis Kraemer, who lived ten blocks away, sued to prevent the Shelleys from gaining possession of the property. The Supreme Court of Missouri held that the covenant was enforceable against the purchasers because the covenant was a purely private agreement between its original parties. As such, it \"ran with the land\" and was enforceable against subsequent owners. Moreover, since it ran in favor of an estate rather than merely a person, it could be enforced against a third party. A materially similar scenario occurred in the companion case \"McGhee v. Sipes\" from Detroit, Michigan, where the McGhees purchased land that was subject to a similar restrictive covenant. The Supreme Court consolidated both cases for oral arguments and considered two questions:\n\n\nThe Supreme Court held \"that the [racially] restrictive agreements, standing alone, cannot be regarded as violative of any rights guaranteed to petitioners by the Fourteenth Amendment.\" Private parties may abide by the terms of such a restrictive covenant, but they may not seek judicial enforcement of such a covenant, as that would be a state action. Such state action would be discriminatory so the enforcement of a racially based restrictive covenant in a state court would violate the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.\n\nThe court rejected the argument that since state courts would enforce a restrictive covenant against white people, judicial enforcement of restrictive covenants would not violate the Equal Protection Clause. The court noted that the Fourteenth Amendment guarantees individual rights, and that equal protection of the law is not achieved by the imposition of inequalities:\n\nGeorge L. Vaughn was a black attorney who represented J.D. Shelley at the Supreme Court of the United States. The attorneys who argued the case for the McGhees were Thurgood Marshall and Loren Miller. The United States Solicitor General, Philip Perlman, who argued in this case that the restrictive covenants were unconstitutional, had previously in 1925 as the city solicitor of Baltimore acted to support the city government's segregation efforts.\n\n\"Hurd v. Hodge\" and \"Urciolo v. Hodge\" were companion cases from the District of Columbia. The Equal Protection Clause does not explicitly apply to a US territory not in a U.S. state, but the Court found that both the Civil Rights Act of 1866 and treating persons in the District of Columbia like those in the states forbade restrictive covenants.\n\nThree justices -- Robert H. Jackson, Stanley Reed, and Wiley B. Rutledge -- recused themselves from the case because they owned property subject to restrictive covenants.\n\nThe Solicitor General's brief filed on behalf of the United States government was written by four Jewish lawyers: Philip Elman, Oscar H. Davis, Hilbert P. Zarky, and Stanley M. Silverberg. However, the Solicitor General’s office chose to omit their names from the brief. Deputy Solicitor General Arnold Raum, who was also Jewish, stated that it was \"bad enough that [Solicitor General Philip] Perlman’s name has to be there, to have one Jew’s name on it, but you have also put four more Jewish names on. That makes it look as if a bunch of Jewish lawyers in the Department of Justice put this out.\"\n\nIn 2010, Jeffrey S. Copeland published \"Olivia's Story: The Conspiracy of Heroes Behind Shelley v. Kraemer\", a literary nonfiction account of events leading up to the Shelley v. Kraemer case. In 2017, a documentary film was made titled \"The Story of Shelley v. Kraemer.\" The script for the film was written by Copeland, and it was produced by Joe Marchesani and Laney Kraus-Taddeo of the Audio/Video Production Services division of Educational Technology and Media Services at the University of Northern Iowa (Cedar Falls, Iowa). The film has been a featured part of the exhibit titled \"#1 in Civil Rights: The African American Freedom Struggle in St. Louis,\" at the Missouri History Museum in St. Louis. The film was also nominated for the Sundance Film Festival.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2358334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2358334", "title": "Sub-Commission on the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights", "text": "Sub-Commission on the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights\n\nThe Sub-Commission on the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights (before 1999, known as the Sub-Commission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities) was a think tank of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights. It was wound up in late August 2006.\n\nWith the dissolution of the Commission on Human Rights and its replacement by the Human Rights Council in 2006, responsibility for the Sub-Commission passed from the former to the latter. On 30 June 2006 the Council resolved to extend the Sub-Commission's mandate on an exceptional one-year basis and subject to the Council's subsequent review. The Sub-Commission met for the final time in August 2006;\namong the recommendations it adopted at that session was one for the creation of a human rights consultative committee as a standing body to assist the Human Rights Council.\n\nThe Sub-Commission was first formed in 1947, under the auspices of the Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC).\n\nIts primary mandate is described as:\n\nOther functions and tasks could also be assigned to it by ECOSOC or the Commission on Human Rights.\n\nIt was composed of 26 human rights experts, each with an alternate and each elected for a term of four years, with half of the posts up for election every two years. Membership was selected from amongst the eligible candidates from United Nations member states in such a way as to result in roughly equal and proportional representation from each of the continents.\n\nAs of 2004, the breakdown of membership was:\n\nThe Sub-Commission had eight working groups to conduct studies on discriminatory practices and make recommendations to ensure that racial, national, religious and linguistic minorities were protected by law.\n\n\nBy the middle of the 1970s the Genocide Convention had not been ratified by all of the members of the security council and appeared to be moribund after 20 years of inaction. Members of the Sub-Commission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities decided to investigate the subject and over the next decade launched a number of initiatives. which included publication of the Ruhashyankiko report in 1978 and the Whitaker report in 1985.\n\nNicodème Ruhashyankiko was appointed as a special Rapporteur in 1973 and produced a report \"The Study on the Question of the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide\", that was approved by the Sub-Commission at its thirty first session (E/CN.4/Sub.2/416, 4 July 1979. The report was forwarded to the United Nations Commission on Human Rights (UNCHR) with a recommendation that it be given the widest possible distribution, and the UNCHR made a decision to do so.\n\nMuch of Ruhashyankiko's report was not found by the sub-committee to be controversial, for example his suggestion that the crime of genocide, like the crime of piracy, should be covered by universal jurisdiction, and that an international criminal court be set up to try those accused of genocide.\n\nHowever, as his review of historical genocide ignited a political debate, Ruhashyankiko took the conservative line that it was impossible to draw up an exhaustive list and that attempting to do so could reignite old quarrels and be unacceptable to all of the member states of the United Nations. This drew the criticism of one member of the Sub-Commission who complained that \"genocide of the Palestinians\" had been omitted. But most of the criticism was for a change Ruhashyankiko made between the first draft and the final version of the report. The first draft had cited the Armenian genocide, but that reference was deleted from the final version due to pressure from Turkey, an omission that was supported by only one member. Ruhashyankiko justified his omission of the Armenian genocide and the inclusion of the Jewish genocide by explaining that the Holocaust was universally recognised while the Armenian genocide was not. In the end the Sub-Commission sent the report with some amendments resulting from the debate within the Sub-Commission to the (UNCHR) with a recommendation that it should be widely distributed. Although the UNCHR accepted the recommendation and passed the resolution to enable its distribution, the foreseen distribution never took place, leaving copies of the report to be found only in the research libraries of some major universities\n\nMitsue Inazumi draws the conclusion from the political debate that the Ruhashyankiko report started, that it was evocative of how divisive the dispute over historical genocides and alleged historical genocides is, while William Schabas draws the conclusion that Ruhashyankiko backed down in naming the Armenian massacres as a genocide under the pressure from the Turkish state, and that \"Ruhashyankiko's unpardonable wavering on the Armenian genocide cast a shadow over what was otherwise an extremely helpful and well-researched report\".\n\nBy 1982, persisting hostility to Ruhashyankiko's handling of the Armenian issue led the Sub-Commission to consider a new report on genocide. In 1983, it requested that the Commission On Human Rights ask the Economic and Social Council [ECOSOC] to appoint a new Special Rapporteur to undertake the task. Sub-Commission member Benjamin Whitaker of the United Kingdom was appointed to the position and mandated to write a revised, updated study. His study, \"Revised and Updated Report on thè Question of the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide\", was received and noted by a resolution at the thirty-eighth session of the Sub-Commission in 1985. (E/CN.4/Sub.2/1985/6, 2 July 1985).\n\nThe report consisted of a Forward, an Introduction, an Appendix, and four principal parts: Part I, Historical Survey; Part II, The Convention On The Prevention and Punishment of The Crime of Genocide; Part III,\nFuture progress: The Possible Ways Forward; Part IV, List of Recommendations. It made a number of controversial proposals including recommendations that the Genocide Convention should be altered to include protection of groups based on politics and sexual orientation. Also \"advertent omission\" should become a crime and the defence of obeying superior orders should be removed. The report also suggested that consideration should be given to ecocide, ethnocide and \"cultural genocide\".\n\nThe report created further controversy, because in paragraph 24 it stated that\n\nIn the debates over whether to accept the report the Sub-Commission's final report stated:\nThat opinions of the Sub-Commission were split came to the fore over the wording of the resolution to accept the report. In the end the second and weaker of two proposed resolutions was adopted, one that took note of the study and thanked Whitaker for his efforts and also noted \"that divergent opinions have been expressed about the content and proposals of the report\". Schabas states that \"An attempt to strengthen the resolution by expressing the Sub-Commissions's thanks and congratulations for 'some' of the proposals in the report was resoundingly defeated\".\n\nThe Sub-Commission revisited genocide in 1993 and in 1994 recommended that an international court statute be prepared to facilitate the prosecution of genocide. It also recommended that an international committee be created to examine reports by States into their undertakings under Article 5 of the Genocide Convention. The committee also followed up on one of the Ruhashyankiko Reports ideas and suggested that the convention be improved by including a clause enabling the crime of genocide to be tried under universal jurisdiction.\n\nIn a resolution dated 3 August 1995 the Sub-Commission concluded \"that a veritable genocide is being committed massively and in a systematic manner against the civilian population in Bosnia and Herzegovina, often in the presence of United Nations forces\".\n\nLater the same month on 18 August, the Sub-Commission passed another resolution explicitly mentioning Radio Démocratie-La Voix du Peuple, which had been stirring up genocidal hatred in Burundi.\n\nThe Sub-Commission, passed two motions — the first in 1996 and the second in 1997. They listed weapons of mass destruction, or weapons with indiscriminate effect, or of a nature to cause superfluous injury or unnecessary suffering and urged all states to curb the production and the spread of such weapons. The committee authorized a working paper, in the context of human rights and humanitarian norms, of the weapons. The requested UN working paper was delivered in 2002 by Y.K.J. Yeung Sik Yuen in accordance with Sub-Commission's resolution 2001/36.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15969861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15969861", "title": "Supreme Audit Office (Czech Republic)", "text": "Supreme Audit Office (Czech Republic)\n\nThe Supreme Audit Office of the Czech Republic ()alternately known in English as the Supreme Control Office of the Czech Republicis a \"unique, independent constitutional entity to supervise the management of the state property and the state budget.\"\n\nIt was a part of the original form of the Constitution of the Czech Republic, created by Article 97 of that document on 1 January 1993. However, because the constitution left all of the details of the operation of the office up to future legislation, it was not until Act 166/1993 came into effect on 1 July 1993 that the office could in practice be formed.\n\nThe presence of two English names for the office is the result of varying translations of its name in the Constitution and its authorizing legislation. In the official translation of the Constitution, the name follows the Czech literally. Hence, it confers the name, \"Supreme \"Control\" Office\", indicating that the office performed the duties of a controller. In the official translation of Act 166/1993, however, a more precise English word is used, resulting in \"Supreme \"Audit\" Office\", conveying the sense that the principal duties of the office are those of an external auditor. It is this latter translation which has perhaps gained dominance, given its singular use on the agency's official website.\n\nSome generally similar positions in governments worldwide include:\n\nInternational Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions – Supreme Audit Office of the Czech Republic \"is\" a member\n"}
{"id": "8068640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8068640", "title": "The No-Nonsense Guide to Globalization", "text": "The No-Nonsense Guide to Globalization\n\nThe No-Nonsense Guide to Globalization is a book by Wayne Ellwood, an editor for the \"New Internationalist\". It was first published in 2001 by Verso Books.\n\nIt covers topics such as globalization around the world, the Bretton Woods Institutions, developing countries' debt, poverty, the environment, and possible means of redesigning the global economy.\n\nSue McGregor of the International Journal of Consumer Studies said \"The No-Nonsense Guide to Globalization\" provided readers encouragement on how to change globalization.\n"}
{"id": "683503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=683503", "title": "Transmediale", "text": "Transmediale\n\ntransmediale is an annual festival for art and digital culture in Berlin, usually held over five days at the end of January and the beginning of February. The 2017 edition marked its 30-year anniversary. \n\nA conference, varying exhibition formats, a film and video program, performances, and workshops build its programmatic core. Simultaneously and in cooperation with transmediale, CTM Festival (formerly club transmediale, renamed in 2011) offers an annual platform for experimental and electronic music. Once a side event of transmediale, it is now organized and curated independently. Throughout the year, transmediale is also involved in a number of long- and short-term cooperative projects via transmediale/resource.\n\ntransmediale was founded in 1988 under the name of VideoFilmFest (VideoFest as of 1989) within the framework of Berlinale, as a side event of the Internationales Forum des Jungen Films section. Its founders, Hartmut Horst and video artist and activist Micky Kwella, sought to create a platform for electronic media productions, which were excluded from classic film festivals such as Berlinale. Over the course of the following 30 years, the festival evolved steadily and independently of Berlinale: from its initial focus on video culture it turned to cultivating an artistic and critical dialogue with television and multimedia, eventually emerging as a leading international platform for media art. In 1997, its name was changed to transmedia, and finally to transmediale in 1998. The change reflected the programmatic extension of the festival, which by then encompassed a broad spectrum of multimedia art forms such as Internet and Software Art.\n\nIn 2001, transmediale underwent far-reaching structural changes; further additions to the program and a new venue, Haus der Kulturen der Welt, led to a continuous increase in attendance. transmediale.02 was the first edition to feature an extensive exhibition in which media art could be experienced in a sensuous and physical way. In 2006, the festival’s subheading changed from “international media art festival” to “festival for art and digital culture”—a decision reflective of a shift towards a more open approach that would include art, technology, and everyday life in an increasingly digitalized world instead of the previous, narrower focus on media art alone.\n\nThe transmediale Award was introduced in 2001 to honour visionary works and projects centering around technology-led societies. In order to do justice to the rising number of submissions of theoretical works, the competition was complemented by the Vilém Flusser Theory Award at transmediale.08. Named after philosopher and media theorist Vilém Flusser, it promoted “outstanding, media-theoretical and research-based artworks” until 2011. In 2012, it was converted into a residency program for artistic research; the transmediale Award and Open Web Award were discontinued.\n\nIn addition, club transmediale was founded as a side event of transmediale in 1999. Since then, CTM has developed into an independent festival that presents electronic and experimental music in various Berlin venues once a year.\n\nAs of 2001, transmediale has followed annually changing thematic headlines:\n\n\ntransmediale was founded by Hartmut Horst and Micky Kwella in 1988. From 2001 to 2007, art historian and curator Andreas Broeckmann took over the artistic direction of the festival. He was superseded by media and arts researcher Stephen Kovats, who led transmediale until 2011. As of April 2011, curator and media researcher Kristoffer Gansing has been the artistic director of the festival. \n\nSince 2004, Kulturstiftung des Bundes has been funding transmediale (alongside documenta, Berlin Biennale and others) as a Beacon of Contemporary Culture. The host organization of the festival is Kulturprojekte Berlin GmbH, which was operated under the name of Kulturveranstaltungs-GmbH until 2005.\n\nIn 2011, transmediale/resource was established as a framework for transmediale’s year-round activities. Its aim is to provide a sustainable structure for feedback, research, and reflection beyond the timeframe of the festival. In addition to varying cooperative projects and network activities, transmediale/resource includes the Vilém Flusser Residency Program for Artistic Research, online publication format transmediale/journal and pre-festival program Vorspiel, presented in collaboration with CTM and a network of organizations, galleries, independent project spaces, and venues all over Berlin.\n\nUntil 1992, VideoFilmFest took place at MedienOperative as well as Deutsche Akademie der Künste in East Berlin. In 1993, it moved to Podewil, which is also where the transmediale offices have been located since 1997. From 2002 to 2005, Haus der Kulturen der Welt became the festival’s main location. In 2006, transmediale relocated to Akademie der Künste, only to return to Haus der Kulturen der Welt in 2008, where it has remained since.\n\n"}
{"id": "24807273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24807273", "title": "United States Senate Select Committee on Nutrition and Human Needs", "text": "United States Senate Select Committee on Nutrition and Human Needs\n\nThe United States Senate Select Committee on Nutrition and Human Needs was a select committee of the United States Senate between 1968 and 1977. It was sometimes referred to as the McGovern committee, after its only chairman, Senator George McGovern of South Dakota.\n\nThe impetus for formation of the committee was a rising concern about hunger and malnutrition in the United States. It had been brought to public attention by the 1967 field trip of Senators Robert F. Kennedy and Joseph S. Clark to see emaciated children in Cleveland, Mississippi, by the 1967 broadcast of the CBS News special \"Hunger in America\", and by the 1968 publication of Citizens Crusade Against Poverty's report \"Hunger USA\". The last of which showed that diseases such as kwashiorkor and marasmus – thought only to exist in underdeveloped countries – were present in America. \nExisting Senate and House committees were uninterested in pursuing the issue, with House Agriculture Committee chairman William R. Poage saying \"The basic problem is one of ignorance as to what constitutes a balanced diet, coupled with indifference by a great many persons who should and probably do not know,\" and Senate Agriculture Committee chairman Allen Ellender saying \"I know that in my state we had a number of fishermen who were unable to catch fish. Do you expect the government, because they cannot catch fish, to feed them until the fish are there?\" Political activist Robert B. Choate, Jr. first came up with the idea of forming a joint congressional committee to probe the hunger problem. McGovern, who had been involved in food-related issues throughout his congressional career and who had been Director of Food for Peace in the Kennedy administration during the early 1960s, thought that confining the committee to just the more liberal Senate would produce better chances for action. McGovern gathered 38 co-sponsors for the committee's creation, a resolution quickly passed the Senate, and McGovern was named the committee's chairman in July 1968. However, the Senate Rules Committee gave essentially no funding to it that year, so it was inactive; in February 1969, McGovern successfully battled the Rules Committee to restore the normally allocated funding and the select committee's operations began.\n\nMembership of the committee during 1969 and 1970 consisted of eight Democrats and five Republicans, and were: \n\nLater members of the committee included \nHubert H. Humphrey of Minnesota, \nPatrick Leahy of Vermont, \nEdward Zorinsky of Nebraska, \nRichard Schweiker of Pennsylvania, \nGaylord Nelson of Wisconsin, \nHenry Bellmon of Oklahoma, \nAlan Cranston of California, \nand Mark Hatfield of Oregon.\n\nThe committee's initial goal was to study the problem of hunger and recommend a multi-faceted federal response. \n\nFollowing the Kennedy-Clark path, McGovern sought to dramatize the problem with an onsite visit and so took the committee to Immokalee, Florida, the base for 20,000 mostly black or Hispanic migrant farm workers. They saw graphic examples of hunger and malnutrition firsthand, but also encountered resistance and complaints about bad publicity from local and state officials. Moreover, local officials were suspected of blocking existing assistance to workers, on the grounds the migrants were \"federal people, not Immokalee people.\" Outside the special committee, McGovern battled the Nixon administration and southerners in Congress during much the next year over an expanded food stamp program; he had to compromise on a number of points, but the legislation signed in 1970 established the principles of free food stamps and a nationwide standard for eligibility. Federal commodity assistance came to Immokalee as well.\n\nThe committee worked with others in organizing a White House conference on the issue, which led to the White House Conference on Food, Nutrition, and Health in 1969.\n\nIn 1971, McGovern expanded the focus of the committee to look at environmental conditions that affected eating habits. He toured the abandoned, destroyed neighborhoods of The Bronx, New York, and issued a report highly critical of the Federal Housing Administration for failed urban renewal efforts. Further committee involvement by McGovern faded for a while as he became caught up in his opposition to the US involvement in the Vietnam War and in his 1972 U.S. presidential campaign.\n\nThroughout, the select committee held hearings in which it heard from academics, non-governmental organizations, educators, health and nutrition experts, school officials, the medical community, and the public. The committee's work filled many volumes of hearing reports. Staff members on the committee included lawyer Jack Quinn, future diplomat Julia Chang Bloch, and nutritionist D. Mark Hegsted.\n\nBeginning in 1974, McGovern expanded the committee's scope to include national nutrition policy. Now, the committee's focus was not just on not eating enough, but also eating too much.\n\nIn January 1977, after having held hearings on the national diet, the McGovern committee issued a new set of nutritional guidelines for Americans that sought to combat leading killer conditions such as heart disease, certain cancers, stroke, high blood pressure, obesity, diabetes, and arteriosclerosis. Titled \"Dietary Goals for the United States\", but also known as the \"McGovern Report\", they suggested that Americans eat less fat, less cholesterol, less refined and processed sugars, and more complex carbohydrates and fiber. (Indeed, it was the McGovern report that first used the term \"complex carbohydrate\", denoting \"fruit, vegetables and whole-grains\".) The recommended way of accomplishing this was to eat more fruits, vegetables, and whole grains, and less high-fat meat, egg, and dairy products. While many public health officials had said all of this for some time, the committee's issuance of the guidelines gave it higher public profile. \n\nThe committee's \"eat less\" recommendations triggered strong negative reactions from the cattle, dairy, egg, and sugar industries, including from McGovern's home state. The American Medical Association protested as well, reflecting its long-espoused belief that people should see their doctor for individual advice rather than follow guidance for the public as a whole. Some scientists also thought the committee's conclusions needed further expert review. Others felt that the job of promulgating recommendations belonged to the Food and Nutrition Board of the National Research Council. Under heavy pressure, the committee held further hearings, and issued a revised set of guidelines in late 1977 which adjusted some of the advice regarding salt and cholesterol and watered down the wording regarding meat consumption.\n\nThe committee had won annual extensions each year, despite some institutional opposition, especially from southern Democrats. During 1977, however, there was a large-scale effort to reform the Senate's overall committee system, which was seen as unwieldy, especially in having some 34 special, select, or joint committees. Intense politicking took place as to which select or special committees would survive, and McGovern and Dole fought hard to preserve the Select Committee on Nutrition and Human Needs. \n\nThey were unsuccessful, and at the close of 1977 the committee was subsumed as the Subcommittee on Nutrition within the newly retitled United States Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry. In reaction, Percy said \"I do not know of another committee which ... had to lay bare its whole soul and have an accountability to the whole Senate, as we have had year after year after year. Senator Edward Brooke said that the select committee had simply lacked external clout because its constituency was poor and not organized, and called its ending \"a sad commentary upon the Senate\".\n\nThe McGovern committee suffered the usual institutional limitations of select committees, in that they could highlight problems but could not report legislation to the floor. Instead, its members had to support legislation being worked on elsewhere, or find a regular standing committee that would introduce legislation on their behalf. Nevertheless, the committee often overcame these restrictions, and it greatly highlighted the dimensions of the nation's problem with hunger, and its work led to major changes and additions into how federal food assistance programs worked. Towards the end of the committee's lifetime, it had become effectively institutionalized as the key congressional agent in the hunger, food assistance, and nutrition areas.\n\nThe committee's work in raising the national understanding of the link between nutrition and chronic disease led to several amendments being passed to the existing National School Lunch Act and Child Nutrition Act. \n\nThe McGovern committee guidelines led to reorganization of some federal executive functions to support the related aims and became the predecessor to the more detailed Dietary Guidelines for Americans later issued twice a decade by the Center for Nutrition Policy and Promotion.\n\nTwo nutrition authors wrote in 2008 that \"Perhaps as much as any single force, the bipartisan Select Committee brought credibility to the hunger and nutrition issues ...\" Their conclusion is echoed by three nutrition authors writing in 1986, who said:\n\nMore than anything else, it was probably the McGovern committee that sparked the change in public thinking about the American diet. For although it set out to investigate the causes of hunger in the United States, the committee quickly found that malnutrition in this country covers not diseases of deficiency, but also diseases of excess.\n"}
{"id": "11758150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11758150", "title": "United States of the West", "text": "United States of the West\n\nThe United States of the West is a political union satirically advocated by French writer, philosopher, social commentator, and self-proclaimed mediologist, Régis Debray (born 1940), in his short essay entitled, \"Empire 2.0: A Modest Proposal for a United States of the West by Xavier de C***.\"\n\n\"Empire 2.0\" is presented as a fictitious letter sent to Debray from an old acquaintance, a French expatriate named Xavier de C***, who is writing to him from America in October 2001, in the immediate aftermath of the 9/11 attacks.\n\nThe essay was first published in France in 2002, as \"L'Edit de caracalla.\"\n\nIn \"Empire 2.0\", Debray's fictitious acquaintance, Xavier de C***, argues that the political enfranchisement of Europe by the United States of America and the official consolidation of the West into an enlarged United States of the West, is the best solution to confronting the current ideological threats and political challenges the West faces from radical Islam, international terrorism, competition for finite resources and responsible resource management, as well as population decline, and would be the only effective safeguard against any future claims to a \"Confucian\" or Asian empire, asserted by an ascendant, militarized, and aggressive China.\n\nDebray begins the epilogue with the lines: \"A man of quality went off to war, and never came home. From the other shore of America, he wrote to an old friend from university days, a mellowed Parisian with the perspective of distance.\"\n\nThe letter to Debray from Xavier, begins: \"The past is over. You can guess which past I mean, since I'm no longer writing you in our common lingo.\"\n\nDebray's Xavier de C***, formerly a French citizen, government official, political consultant, and international military advisor, then recounts to Debray how he swore his oath of allegiance in New York City and gained American citizenship in September 2001, immediately after the 9/11 attacks.\n\nXavier discusses the current state of the world, world history, American and European styles of government, western culture, the intellectual traditions of France, the failures of the European Union, NATO and the United Nations to effectively address serious crises, and his own conception of the Western cultural tradition and Western philosophy, as well as what the events of 9/11 and the inevitable American response which will shortly follow, portends for both men.\n\nIn his letter, de C*** states that currently, only the United States is in a position to take physical and moral responsibility for the stability of the political and economic order, as well as the preservation of the shared values and culture of Western nations, because the United States is the only Western political entity capable of effectively and decisively using force against the ideological enemies of the distinctly \"Western\" values and traditions which Europeans and Americans share, thus the United States is the only truly politically empowered nation in the Western world.\n\nXavier argues that there is essentially already an informal arrangement between many nations and the United States, and that if Europe, namely France, wants to play any serious role in her own domestic affairs, as well as a leading role in guiding or shaping international relations, then European citizens must gain many of the rights currently afforded solely to U.S. citizens in regards to the administration of the U.S. government.\n\nXavier believes that France and other nations could preserve their local and regional governments and cultural identities, and could refine the more base aspects and tendencies of inferior American culture, much as Greece contributed to Rome in the classical era.\n\nWhile France and Europe would contribute to a larger whole by electing presidents and assuming roles in the U.S. government, instead of wasting time trying to counter U.S. hegemony economically but not militarily, through the European Union and other economic entities, which all ultimately fail to govern because they lack the \"force\" of law, they would sacrifice little in Xavier's eyes, and gain individual political rights, in tune with the Western democratic tradition.\n\nXavier argues that because Europeans and other \"Occidental\" or Westernized societies continue to deny the reality of their near complete military and economic dependency on the United States, as well as their commonality with American culture out of pretension, and fail to admit the gravity of the situation that the entire West at-large faces from distinctly intolerant, illiberal, and un-Western ideologies and cultures quickly spreading throughout the world, Europeans will face cultural extinction, a further disintegration of economic security, free trade, and free conscience, as well as political oppression within a few hundred years.\n\nIn de C***'s eyes, as American power wanes from lack of coherence, guidance, and grand strategy, which only European knowledge and insight can provide, Europeans will find themselves in a much more degraded state, and at the mercy of social and political ideologies and forces which are incompatible with Western virtues and conceptions of individuality; a decline that must be avoided and reversed by either a large influx of new citizens into the American structure or expanded national, civic and cultural awareness, among a broadened, cohesive citizenry.\n\nXavier advises Debray, and the French to lead the effort for this \"official merger\" between Europe and the United States, instead of persisting along the current path, because the current tendencies of European governments have led to a precarious situation and continuing along this trajectory only serves to preserve a kind of servile, political half-life among European nations and citizens, either as \"junior partners\" in U.S. led ventures, or conversely, as merely resentful, reluctant critics in ineffective organizations such as the United Nations and NATO or other naive, self-deluding social organizations.\n\nXavier states that France is in danger of losing individual rights, political freedoms, and even the ability to co-exist with other nations, because Totalitarian Islam continues to acquire influence as a legitimate reaction to Western economic and military practices, and Islamic culture in general, will soon have over 2 billion adherents. As Europe faces a serious depopulation crisis, and \"the West\" only constitutes about 1/4 of the world's current population, there is no reason to believe that any Western values will be transmitted down through any of the generations beyond the next 200 years.\n\nXavier asks rhetorically, if individual liberties, namely women's rights, religious freedom and tolerance, political stability and domestic order, would be better preserved if Europe were to accommodate totalitarian Islamists as France and England did with Hitler at Munich, or alternately whether Europe and the West would survive the ideological and political machinations of China, if China were allowed to become the world's only economic and military hyperpower, following U.S. military overstretch or economic depression resulting from this lack of Western cohesion, and the blowback effects of U.S. unilateralism operating without a moderating European influence.\n\nHe firmly believes that the United States should extend United States citizenship (through a modernized Edict of Caracalla to all Canadians, Latinos, Europeans, Japanese, Koreans, New Zealanders and Australians, in order to formalize the political center of Western civilization, which in fact, already exists and is tacitly understood, thus formally extending democracy to people who are already governed by U.S. economic and security policies, as well as dominated by American cultural forms, yet have no vote or official representation in the U.S. government, and thus no real say in strategic or economic affairs.\n\nIn his \"Epitaph,\" following the end of the letter, Debray describes Xavier as a \"man of letters against his will,\" a \"man of action, always preferring to be 'on the ground,'\" who specialized in classical studies, specifically the Roman Empire. He goes on to state that he was a \"strategist, resolute and without illusions...(who) had intelligence, without the morose of self-indulgence that so often accompanies it.\"\n\nCullen Murphy in his book, \"Are We Rome? The Fall of an Empire and the Fate of America\", Tells of American Expansionists and their desire to bring America, primarily American culture, to the rest of the world, starting with Europe.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "220636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220636", "title": "Universal suffrage", "text": "Universal suffrage\n\nThe concept of universal suffrage, also known as general suffrage or common suffrage, consists of the right to vote of all adult citizens, regardless of property ownership, income, race, or ethnicity, subject only to minor exceptions. In its original 19th-century usage by political reformers, \"universal suffrage\" was understood to mean only universal male suffrage; the vote was extended to women later, during the women's suffrage movement.\n\nThere are variations among countries in terms of specifics of the right to vote; the minimum age is usually between 18 and 25 years (see age of majority) and \"the insane, certain classes of convicted criminals, and those punished for certain electoral offenses\" sometimes lack the right to vote.\n\nIn the United States, the term \"suffrage\" is often associated specifically with women's suffrage; a movement to extend the franchise to women began in the mid-nineteenth century and culminated in the 1920, when the United States ratified the Nineteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, guaranteeing the right of women to vote.\n\nIn most countries, universal suffrage (the right to vote but not necessarily the right to be a candidate) followed about a generation after universal male suffrage. Notable exceptions in Europe were France, where women could not vote until 1944, Greece (1952), and Switzerland (1971).\n\nIn the first modern democracies, governments restricted the vote to those with property and wealth, which almost always meant a minority of the male population. In some jurisdictions, other restrictions existed, such as requiring voters to practice a given religion. In all modern democracies, the number of people who could vote has increased progressively with time. In the 19th century in Europe, Great Britain and North America, there were movements advocating \"universal [male] suffrage\".\n\nFrance, under the 1793 Jacobin constitution, was the first major country to enact suffrage for all adult males, though it was never formally enacted in practice (the subsequent election occurring after the fall of the Jacobin government). The Second French Republic did institute adult male suffrage after the revolution of 1848.\n\nFollowing the French revolutions, the first movements in the Western world toward universal suffrage occurred in the early 19th century, and focused on removing property requirements for voting. In 1867, Germany (the North German Confederation) enacted suffrage for all adult males. In the United States following the American Civil War, slaves were freed and granted rights of citizens, including suffrage for adult males (although several states established restrictions largely, though not completely, diminishing these rights). In the late 19th and early 20th centuries, the focus of the universal suffrage movement came to include the extension of the right to vote to women, as happened from the post-Civil War era in several Western states and the 1890s in a number of British colonies.\n\nIn 1906, the autonomous Grand Duchy of Finland, which became the republic of Finland, was the first country in the world to implement full universal suffrage, as women could stand as candidates, unlike in New Zealand, and ethnic exclusion was not implemented, unlike in Australia. It also elected the world's first female members of parliament the following year.\n\nThe First French Republic was the second nation that adopted universal male suffrage, doing so in 1792; it was one of the first national systems that abolished all property requirements as a prerequisite for allowing men to register and vote. Greece recognized full male suffrage in 1830. Spain recognized it in the Constitution of 1869 and France and Switzerland have continuously done so since the 1848 Revolution (for resident male citizens). Upon independence in the 19th century, several Latin American countries and Liberia in Africa initially extended suffrage to all adult males, but subsequently restricted it based on property requirements. The German Empire implemented full male suffrage in 1871. \n\nIn the United States, the Fifteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, ratified in 1870 during the Reconstruction era, provided that \"The right of citizens of the United States to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any State on account of race, color, or previous condition of servitude.\" This amendment was intended to guarantee the right to vote to African Americans, many of whom had been enslaved in the South prior to the end of the American Civil War and the abolition of slavery. Despite the amendment, however, blacks were disfranchised in the former Confederate states after 1877; Southern officials ignored the amendment and blocked black citizens from voting through a variety of devices, including poll taxes, literacy tests, and grandfather clauses; violence and terrorism were used to intimidate those who attempted to vote. Southern blacks did not effectively receive the right to vote until the Voting Rights Act of 1965.\n\nIn 1893, the self-governing colony New Zealand became the first country in the world (except for the short-lived 18th century Corsican Republic) to grant active universal suffrage by giving women the right to vote. It did not grant universal full suffrage (the right to both vote and be a candidate, or both active and passive suffrage) until 1919.\n\nIn 1902, Australia become the first country to grant full suffrage for women, i.e. the first country in the world to give women both the right to vote and to run for office. However, universal suffrage was not implemented, as aboriginals did not get the right to vote until 1962.\n\nSeveral European nations that had enacted universal suffrage had their normal legal process, or their status as an independent nation, interrupted during and after the First World War.\n\nMany societies in the past have denied or abridged political representation on the basis of race or ethnicity, related to discriminatory ideas about citizenship. For example, in apartheid-era South Africa, non-white people could generally not vote in national elections until the first multi-party elections in 1994 (except under the Cape Qualified Franchise, which was replaced by a number of separate MPs in 1936 (Blacks) and 1958 (Coloureds), later by the Tricameral Parliament). Rhodesia enacted a similar statute in its proclaimed independence, which however allowed a smaller number of representatives for the considerably larger Black majority (under its 1961 constitution, the voting classes had been based on socio-economic standards, which marginalized most Black and a few White voters to a separate set of constituencies, under the principle of weighted voting; this replaced in 1969 by an openly racial franchise, with delegated all Blacks to the 'B' voters roll).\n\nAll US states, with the exceptions of Maine and Vermont, disfranchise some felons from voting depending on their current incarceration, parole or probation status; a number of US states permanently disfranchise some felons, even after their release from prison. Many states within the U.S. previously disfranchised paupers, persons who either paid no direct taxes, or received public assistance.\n\nNations have differing degrees of legal recognition of non-resident citizens: non-resident Danes cannot vote after two years; non-resident Italians may vote for representatives at-large in the Italian parliament; non-resident British citizens cannot vote for their national parliament unless they have lived in the UK within the last fifteen years. A few nations also restrict those who are part of the military or police forces, e.g. Kuwait.\n\nMany democratic countries, for example the United Kingdom and France, have had colonies with citizens living outside of the mother country and have generally not been entitled to vote for the national legislature. A peculiarly complex case is that of Algeria under the Third French Republic: Algeria was legally an integral part of France, but citizenship was restricted (as in other French colonies proper) by legal status, not by race or ethnicity. Any Muslim Algerian could become a French citizen by choosing to live like one. As this required the person to resign jurisdiction under Islamic law in favour of French civic law, very few did. Among Muslims, such a change was considered apostasy from Islam, which was the dominant religion in Algeria. Colonists in America declared Independence from Great Britain citing \"No Taxation Without Representation\" as one of their main grievances. However, the newly established country did not extend voting rights in the United States beyond white adult male property owners (about 6% of the population), and did not grant its overseas citizens the right to vote in elections either, until the passage of the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act in 1986.\n\nCitizens of an EU Member State are allowed to vote in EU parliamentary elections, as well as some local elections. For example, a British person living in Graz, Austria, would be entitled to vote for the European Parliament as a resident of the \"electoral district\" of Austria, and to vote in Graz municipal elections. He would, however, not be entitled to vote in Austrian (federal) elections, or Styrian (state) elections. Similarly, all locally resident EU citizens in the UK are allowed to vote for representatives of the local council, and those resident in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland may vote for the devolved parliaments or assemblies. But, only British, Irish and Commonwealth citizens are allowed to vote for the British House of Commons. However, not all British citizens are allowed to vote, since non-resident British citizens lose their franchise after 15 years. In fact the British government is planning to reinstate universal suffrage soon.\n\nStates have granted and revoked universal suffrage at various times. This list can be organised in three ways:\n\nIn Sweden-Finland, women's suffrage was granted during the Age of Liberty from 1718 until 1772.\n\nIn Corsica, women's suffrage was granted in 1755 and lasted until 1769.\n\nWomen's suffrage (with the same property qualifications as for men) was granted in New Jersey in 1776 (the word \"inhabitants\" was used instead of \"men\" in the 1776 Constitution) and rescinded in 1807.\n\nThe Pitcairn Islands granted restricted women's suffrage in 1838. Various other countries and states granted restricted women's suffrage in the later half of the nineteenth century, starting with South Australia in 1861.\n\nThe first unrestricted women's suffrage in a major country was granted in New Zealand in 1893. The women's suffrage bill was adopted mere weeks before the general election of 1893. Māori men had been granted suffrage in 1867, white men in 1879. The \"Freedom in the World\" index lists New Zealand as the only free country in the world in 1893.\n\nSouth Australia first granted women suffrage and allowed them to stand for parliament in 1894.\n\nThe autonomous Grand Principality of Finland, a decade before becoming the republic of Finland, was the first country in the world to implement full universal suffrage, by giving women full political rights, i.e. both the right to vote and to run for office, and was the second in the world and the first in Europe to give women the right to vote. The world's first female members of parliament were elected in Finland the following year.\n\nIn 1931, the Second Spanish Republic allowed women the right of passive suffrage with three women being elected.\n\nDuring a discussion on extending women's right to active suffrage, the Radical Socialist Victoria Kent confronted the Radical Clara Campoamor. Kent argued that Spanish women were not yet prepared to vote and, since they were too influenced by the Catholic Church, they would vote for right-wing candidates. Campoamor however pleaded for women's rights regardless of political orientation. Her point finally prevailed and, in the election of 1933, the political right won with the vote of citizens of any sex over 23. Both Campoamor and Kent lost their seats.\n\nDemocratic schools practice and support universal suffrage in school, which allows a vote to every member of the school, including students and staff. Such schools hold that this feature is essential for students to be ready to move into society at large.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17487663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17487663", "title": "Volok Reform", "text": "Volok Reform\n\nThe Volok Reform (, ) was a 16th-century land reform in parts of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania (Lithuania proper, Duchy of Samogitia and parts of White Ruthenia). The reform was started by Grand Duchess Bona Sforza in her possessions to increase the revenues of the state treasury but soon was expanded statewide and was copied by other nobles and the Church. The reform increased effectiveness of agriculture by establishing a strict three-field system for crop rotation. The land was measured, registered in a cadastre, and divided into voloks (land unit of about ). Volok became the measurement of feudal services. The reform was a success in terms of the annual state revenue that quadrupled from 20,000 to 82,000 kopas of Lithuanian groschens. In social terms, the reform and the accompanying Third Statute of Lithuania (1588), promoted development of manorialism and fully established serfdom in Lithuania which existed until the emancipation reform of 1861. The nobility was clearly separated from the peasants which severely limited social mobility. \n\nThe beginnings of serfdom in Lithuania can be traced from the end of the 14th century when Grand Dukes would gift land and peasants, known as veldamai, to Lithuanian nobles for their military service (cf. benefice). The practice was particularly popular during the reign of Vytautas (reigned 1392–1430) and Casimir Jagiellon (reigned 1440–1492). Grand Dukes also issued a series of privileges transferring veldamai further under control of the nobles. That allowed the nobles to establish large estates that had up to a few hundred peasant households (for example, Upninkai and Musninkai of Radvilos). The wealthiest nobles became magnates. According to estimated by Jerzy Ochmański based on the military census of 1528, the magnates (less than 1% of nobility) controlled about 30% of nobility landholdings.\n\nAt the same time, there were significant developments in Western Europe. The Age of Discovery and Commercial Revolution shifted the economic initiative from agriculture to trade and industry. Merchants began focusing on importing raw materials and exporting finished goods. As a result, the demand for agricultural products, primarily grain, had increased. That presented an opportunity for the Lithuanian nobles. Their economic activity shifted from military service (taking share of war loot, receiving benefices from Grand Duke) to agriculture (growing and exporting grain to foreign markets). There were significant motivations to expand arable land and ensure cheap and permanent workforce. \nThe reform began in 1547 in the Grand Duke's lands. It was made a law on 1 April 1557 and the process continued until the 1580s. \n\nThe Grand Duke was declared the owner of all peasants and their land thereby eliminating any remnants of allodial titles. The nobles that could not prove their noble status or land ownership had their land confiscated and their status reduced to a peasant. The Grand Duke's land was measured, evaluated for quality, and registered in a cadastre. Intruding parcels of land belonging to a noble were moved elsewhere to form a unified tract of land. This tract was then divided. \n\nThe land around the manor was assigned to folwark (Grand Duke's farm). Regulations said that each volok of folwark should have seven peasant voloks. Land assigned to peasant farms (the village) was located further from the manor. The surveyors attempted to draw as correct rectangle as possible. Peasant houses were often moved to form a linear settlement along the single road. The peasant land was divided into three equal fields to facilitate the three-field system of crop rotation. Each field was then divided into strips () and assigned to each serf household. That way each serf was assigned a strip in each field; the three strips measured one volok (about ). Wealthier serfs with enough manpower were sometimes assigned additional land outside of the designated village; these farms were known as beyond-border (). Poorer serfs shared one volok between 2 or 3 families. On average, each serf household had about .\n\nSince land was owned by the Grand Duke, peasants had to perform services and pay dues to the landowner in exchange for their use of their farms. The unit of such services was one volok. Initially, a peasant owning one volok had to work 2 days a week in the folwark (corvée; ), depending on land quality pay between 4 and 24 grosz of feudal land rent (), and pay tribute by oats and hay (). These feodal services increased significantly during the years.\n"}
{"id": "2635563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2635563", "title": "Óláfr Þórðarson", "text": "Óláfr Þórðarson\n\nÓláfr Þórðarson was an Icelandic skald and scholar who was born about 1210 and died in 1259. He is usually called Óláfr hvítaskáld (\"Olaf the white skald\") in contrast to a contemporary skald called Óláfr svartaskáld (\"Olaf the black skald\"). Óláfr was the paternal nephew of Snorri Sturluson and spent his youth in Snorri's home where he had an important part of his scholarly education. Particular important is his Grammatical Treatise.\n\nAfter his father's death in 1237, he travelled to Norway, where he stayed with king Haakon IV of Norway and Jarl Skule, before he went to Denmark and its king Valdemar II of Denmark. He probably also visited king Eric XI of Sweden. In 1240, he served as king Haakon's housecarl in the Battle of Oslo.\n\nBack in Iceland, he was the island's lawspeaker from 1252 to 1256. He became a famous skald and composed poems about the three Scandinavian kings, which are partially included in the \"Knýtlinga saga\", which he probably made from material he collected in Denmark.\n"}
