{"id": "44455812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44455812", "title": "A.L.B (Watches)", "text": "A.L.B (Watches)\n\nA.L.B Watches is a French luxury watch brand. The company was originally called \"Atelier Le Brézéguet\", but changes its name in 2012.\n\n\"Atelier Le Brézéguet\" refers to a locality in the Lot region of France. A.L.B workshop is based in the Toulouse area.\n\nThe founders are Vincent Candellé Tuheille & Simon-Pierre Delord, two engineers ICAM [Icam, School of Engineering]\n\nA.L.B became known for its work on the field of 3D printing. The models A.L.B 000 and A.L.B 100 are among the first to integrate 3D printed dials.\n"}
{"id": "50502818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50502818", "title": "Alejandra Silva", "text": "Alejandra Silva\n\nAlejandra María Silva García–Baquero (n. La Coruña; 16 February 1983) is a Spanish publicist.\n\nAt the age of 4, her family moved to Madrid and Silva studied at the Saint Louis And Mater Salvatoris school.\n\nAt age 15, Silva moved to Dorset, UK, for schooling and she concluded her A levels education. Thereafter she returned to Madrid to study at the university and she graduated with a degree in advertising and marketing. Following graduation, Silva worked as an intern in The Farm ad agency in Madrid, and in 2005 she accepted a position in sales and marketing at a private firm in the airplane industry.\n\nShe is the daughter of Ignacio Silva and Paola Garcia-Baquero. Her father is a businessman and the former Vice President of Real Madrid Football Club.\n\nIn 2012, Alejandra Silva married Govind Friedland and gave birth to Albert in December 2012.\n\nIn 2011, the couple acquired the former summer home of the Italian film director Franco Zeffirelli in Positano, Italy, and established a luxury boutique hotel and named it Hotel Villa Treville. Alejandra Silva and Govind Friedland divorced at the end of December 2015. Silva met Richard Gere before she divorced Friedland while working at the Treville Hotel, a hotel she was managing at that time.\n\nIn April 2018, she married Richard Gere in New York City.\n\nSilva has a long history of being active in social responsibility organizations.\n\nIn 2007, Silva promoted a non-profit initiative jointly with Karolina Kurkova called Beautiful Life Fund. This non-profit organization raised awareness of the plight of children in need, distressed refugee children, victims of war, and the education of homeless children around the world.\n\nIn 2010 she participated in the Real Madrid Football Club Foundation African Initiative Project by creating soccer leagues as means of integrating underprivileged children to their local communities and promoting sports and its values amongst African families.\n\nThrough her interest in non-profit organizations, Silva met American actor Richard Gere. Their relationship gained notoriety in the press in June 2015. As of 2016, Silva continues her activism in non-profit organization and supports The Rais Foundation for the Homeless.\n\nIn 2016 she was the cover model of \"Hola! Fashion\".\n\n"}
{"id": "469898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=469898", "title": "Asano Sōichirō", "text": "Asano Sōichirō\n\nHe came from a samurai family in the Toyama region. He was Doctor Asano Taijun's son. He was originally named Asano Taijiro. He purchased Fukagawa Cement Works from the government in 1884, with help from Shibusawa Eiichi, and diversified his business interests, which eventually became a minor zaibatsu (kept minor because it did not include a bank). Asano is called \"the cement king of the Meiji period.\"\n\nAsano also established the forerunner of the JR Tsurumi Line, located between Tokyo and Yokohama. Asano Station is named after him.\n\n"}
{"id": "2431738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2431738", "title": "Asset-protection trust", "text": "Asset-protection trust\n\nAn asset-protection trust is any form of trust which provides for funds to be held on a discretionary basis. Such trusts are set up in an attempt to avoid or mitigate the effects of taxation, divorce and bankruptcy on the beneficiary. Such trusts are therefore frequently proscribed or limited in their effects by governments and the courts.\n\nThe asset-protection trust is a trust that splits the beneficial enjoyment of trust assets from their legal ownership. The beneficiaries of a trust are the beneficial owners of equitable interests in the trust assets, but they do not hold legal title to the assets. Thus this kind of trust fulfills the goal of asset protection planning, i.e. to insulate assets from claims of creditors without concealment or tax evasion. A creditor's ability to satisfy a judgment against a beneficiary's interest in a trust is limited to the beneficiary's interest in such trust. Consequently, the common goal of asset protection trusts is to limit the interests of beneficiaries in such a way so as to preclude creditors from collecting against trust assets.\n\nSuch trusts must be irrevocable (a revocable trust will not provide asset protection because and to the extent of the settlor's power to revoke). Most of them contain a spendthrift clause preventing a trust beneficiary from alienating his or her expected interest in favor of a creditor. The spendthrift clause has three general exceptions to the protection afforded: the self-settled trusts (if the settlor of a trust is also a beneficiary of a trust), the case when a debtor is the sole beneficiary and the sole trustee of a trust, and the support payments (a court may order the trustee to satisfy a beneficiary's support obligation to a former spouse or minor child). The first general exception, which accounts for the majority of asset protection trusts, no longer applies in several jurisdictions. The laws of certain jurisdictions including Alaska, Bermuda, and the Cayman Islands allow self-settled trusts to afford their settlors the protection of the spendthrift clause.\n\nTrusts were developed at common law in England originally to minimize the impact of inheritance taxes arising from transfers at death. The essence of the trust was to separate \"legal\" title, which was given to someone to hold as \"trustee\", from \"equitable title\", which was to be retained by the trust beneficiaries.\n\nIn the United States and England, a practice developed whereby trust settlors began to use \"spendthrift\" clauses to prevent trust beneficiaries from alienating their beneficial interests to creditors. Over time, courts were asked to determine the efficacy of spendthrift clauses as against the trust beneficiaries seeking to engage in such assignments, and the creditors of those beneficiaries seeking to reach trust assets. A case law doctrine developed whereby courts may generally recognize the efficacy of spendthrift clauses as against trust beneficiaries and their creditors, but not against creditors of a settlor.\n\nAlaska was the first US jurisdiction to enact laws allowing protection for self-settled trusts (in 1997) and was shortly followed by Delaware, Nevada, South Dakota and a few others. These trusts are known as \"Domestic Asset Protection Trusts\" (DAPTs). Usually, a DAPT must comply with the following requirements:\n\nTrusts are generally governed by the laws of the jurisdiction that is designated by the settlor as the governing jurisdiction. There are two exceptions to the general rule, which may create conflicts of law: (i) states will not recognize laws of sister states that violate their own public policy, and (ii) if the trust owns real property, such property will be governed by the law of jurisdiction that is the property's situs. Additionally, the Full Faith and Credit clause of the Constitution provides that each state must give full faith and credit to the laws of every other state. This means that if a court from another state refuses to recognize the protection of a DAPT and enters a judgment for the creditor, the creditor may be able to enforce the judgment against the trustee of the DAPT, even if that trustee was located in the DAPT jurisdiction. The efficacy of a DAPT may also be challenged under the Supremacy clause of the U.S. Constitution, under the applicable fraudulent transfer statute, or because the settlor retained some prohibited control over the trust.\n\nThese jurisdictions are also known as \"United States Asset Protection Trusts\" (USAPTs), from the point of view of the non-US settlors. The issues that would seem to apply on a USAPT established by a non-US settlor are: 1) whether a non-US court has jurisdiction over the USAPT; 2) the conflict of US versus non-US laws (i.e., which jurisdiction's laws will apply to the trust and the protection it purports to offer); 3) which fraudulent transfer law would apply; and 4) whether the US state court will recognize the non-US judgment.\n\nThe context of a non-US settlor has a few advantages over that of a US settlor. The issue of the Full Faith and Credit clause doctrine of the US Constitution would not apply to a non-US settlor facing a non-US judgment. Creditors of non-US settlors would have to first obtain a judgment in their home jurisdiction and then attempt to enforce that \"foreign\" judgment in the US against the trustee of the USAPT, who was not a party to the original action. Therefore, except in unusual cases, this would mean that the only issues to litigate would be whether a fraudulent transfer has taken place, and in turn, which jurisdiction's fraudulent transfer laws would apply. Despite that, the non-US creditor must still seek to first have the foreign judgment recognized, because without formal legal acknowledgment of the judgment in the US court, there would be no basis on which to question the transfer.\n\nSouth Dakota was one of the first states (1983) to allow a trust to endure perpetually, essentially jumping outside the onerous federal transfer (gift, estate and generation-skipping) tax system theoretically forever. Currently, twenty-four other states have joined the ranks of offering a long-term trust. Nineteen of these states, including South Dakota, allow a trust to continue in perpetuity.\n\nSouth Dakota does not impose any form of state taxation on the assets that comprise a trust located there. This includes, but is not limited to: no state income, capital gains, dividend/interest and/or intangible's taxes. Additionally, South Dakota has the lowest insurance premium tax of any state (i.e., 8 basis points or 8/100ths of 1%) and also offers other very favorable insurance legislation. South Dakota also has both excellent self-settled trust as well as third party discretionary trust statutes, both allowing for domestic asset protection planning with trusts.\n\nSouth Dakota is the first and only state in the US with a third party discretionary trust statute for asset protection, which states that a discretionary interest in third party trust, limited power of appointments, and remainder interests are not considered property interests. This statute is extremely important to properly asset protect trusts set up to benefit one's family. South Dakota also has some of the top-rated Asset Protection statutes for LLCs and LPs based upon a powerful \"sole remedy charging order statute\". Consequently, most of the unique and creative trust strategies for the wealthy involve trust administration in South Dakota without the necessity of having the trust's family reside there.\n\nThe trust laws of the offshore world are typically founded on the trust laws of the onshore world. For those jurisdictions which are currently possessions of the UK, or were former possessions of the UK, typically the UK Trustee Act of 1925 is the common starting point. From there, each jurisdiction has sought to develop and evolve the law in a race to develop the most attractive trust environment which maintains acceptable standards, preserves the concepts of a trust, yet is attractive to potential users. Many of these jurisdictions share similar characteristics.\n\nThe Commonwealth of the Bahamas have traditionally been associated with offshore planning. However, the Bahamas are probably more noteworthy for offshore banking. The Bahamas do not recognize self-settled spendthrift trusts, unlike the Cook Islands, Nevis, or Belize.\n\nThe burden of proof for a claimant to challenge a transfer into a Bahamian Trust has a limitation period of two years, the same as Cook Islands.\n\nThe quality of the banking and investment services is reasonable for the uses of a Trustee of an asset protection trust, however, the quality of the judiciary is considered low, as the legal profession is generally closed to the entry of non-Bahamians, and it is therefore difficult bring the knowledge of a specialised trust lawyer to the jurisdiction when needed.\n\nBelize, offers immediate protection from court action initiated by creditors which challenges the settlor's transfer of property into the trust. However, due to the paucity of credible offshore banks in Belize, many trusts established in Belize hold assets with a second trustee or third-party financial institution in another country.\n\nBermuda, entry to follow\n\nCayman Islands trusts are governed principally by the Cayman Islands Trusts Law (2009 Revision), however elements of the Fraudulent Dispositions Law 1989 are relevant when considering the asset protection benefits of Cayman Trusts.\n\nA number of offshore jurisdictions have enacted modern asset protection legislation based on the Cayman Island's Fraudulent Dispositions Law 1989 (the \"FDL\"). The Cayman Islands FDL states \"Every disposition of property made with an intention to defraud, and at undervalue, shall be voidable at the insistence of an eligible creditor thereby prejudiced\". The burden of proof is borne by the creditor applying to set aside the trust, and in the case of the Cayman Islands, the creditor/claimant must bring an action in the Cayman Islands courts (not in their home jurisdiction). The bar is set high for a potential claimant to successfully challenge a transfer. They must demonstrate an intention to defraud on behalf of the Settlor, and they must demonstrate they are an \"eligible creditor\" - meaning that at the date of the transfer, the transferor owes an obligation to the claimant. They must also be willing to bring an action in the Cayman Islands, which by itself is an expensive proposition.\n\nThe burden of proof for a claimant to challenge a transfer into a Cayman Trust has a limitation period of six years.\n\nIn Cayman it is possible to register a trust as an Exempt Trust however it is voluntary registration regime only, so most trusts remain unregistered. As most Cayman trusts are therefore private arrangements, it is hard to give exact figures for the popularity of AP Trusts governed by Cayman law. However the number of licensed trust companies give us some indication of how the jurisdiction is viewed. As of 30 September 2012 the Fiduciary Services Division of CIMA, the body responsible for licensing and regulating trust companies in the Cayman Islands has supervisory responsibility for 146 active trust licences.\n\nAs the Cayman Islands are a British Overseas Dependent Territory, the quality of the judiciary is considered excellent, with the islands able to draw on the services of UK lawyers and solicitors when contentious cases arise and expert lawyers with appropriate experience are required. The quality of banking and investment services are reasonably good.\n\nThe Cook Islands claims to be the first country to have enacted an explicit asset protection law, implementing particular provisions in 1989 to its International Trusts Act. Several of these changes have been adopted in one form or another in several other countries and a handful of a U.S. states. The most important of these changes permits the settlor of a trust to be named as a spendthrift beneficiary.\n\nThe trust laws of the Cook Islands provide a shortened statute of limitations on fraudulent transfer claims. While most U.S. states have a four-year statute of limitations (and the Statute of Elizabeth in some common law jurisdictions has no statute of limitations), the general statute of limitations in the Cook Islands is reduced to two years for fraudulent transfers; in certain circumstances, it may be as short as one year. If the trust is funded while the settlor is solvent, then the transfer cannot be challenged.(i.e., there is no time period for the creditor to challenge the transfer)\n\nSeveral provisions of the Cook Islands law specify the form of pleading that a creditor must establish in order for its claim to be heard in a Cook Islands court. The effect of these provisions is to raise the burden of proof to \"beyond a reasonable doubt,\" something akin to a criminal law standard, in order for a creditor to establish a fraudulent transfer. The \"constructive\" fraudulent transfer theories are eliminated under Cook Islands law, requiring the creditor to prove that the transfer was made with specific intent to avoid the creditor's claim.\n\nIt is believed that the Cook Islands now has more registered asset protection trusts than any other country, although it should be noted that in most jurisdictions a Trust is considered a private arrangement and it is not a requirement to register a Trust. Case law is somewhat lacking in the Cook Islands. However, some landmark decisions show that the Cook Islands Court intends to uphold the asset protection trust law. In 1999, the Federal Trade Commission attempted to recover assets from a Cook Islands Trust. The suit filed by the FTC against a trust company was unsuccessful. The quality of the judiciary and the associated banking and investment services offered from the Cook Islands are considered poor.\n\nNevis was one of the first countries to follow the Cook Islands, duplicating an older version of the Cook Islands law and naming it the Nevis International Exempt Trust Ordinance, 1994. One distinguishing feature of the Nevis legislation is that a creditor must post a bond of ECB 25,000 (roughly USD 13,000) to lodge a complaint against a trust registered in Nevis.\n\nVery little case law exists in Nevis, which many attorneys interpret to mean that creditors are effectively deterred from bringing suit in Nevis. It has a small offshore banking industry, with St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla Bank and Bank of Nevis International as the only licensed offshore banks.\n\nLLC legislation modeled after the Delaware LLC Act was passed in 1996. This has enabled Nevis to distinguish itself as a primary offshore jurisdiction for LLC formations, as opposed to other countries that are well known for IBC formations (British Virgin Islands) or trust formations (Cayman Islands). A Nevis LLC is often used in conjunction with an asset protection trust because it gives the creator of the trust direct control over the assets if the creator is listed as the manager of the Nevis LLC. This gives the creator added security in that it keeps the assets one step removed from the trustee of the asset protection trust. Because the managers and members of a Nevis LLC are not public information, the creator of the trust is able to assume control over the assets without disclosing his control on any public records.\n\nThe Channel Islands have been long regarded as being the first jurisdictions to develop an offshore finance industry, each is often regarded as being one of the best quality jurisdictions to use. Fully compliant with anti money laundering laws, sharing taxation information with an increasing number of countries, modern case law indicate that creditors, who have a rightful claim, are able to freeze trust assets in the Channel Islands. Tax law initiatives in the UK have largely eliminated the tax advantages of UK citizens placing assets in trust in the Channel Islands, which in the early years had been a source of business. While the Channel Islands enjoys a modern banking sector, most attorneys do not regard the Channel Islands as appropriate for asset protection planning.\n\nThe judicial systems of the Channel Islands are split into two distinct Bailiwicks. The Bailiwick of Jersey, and the Bailiwick of Guernsey (which includes the islands of Guernsey, Alderney Sark, and Herm). The legal systems in each island follows a dual system based on Norman-French codified law overlaid with elements of English common law. Whilst specialised training is required in order to practice law in each of the Bailiwicks, the Bar is not open to everyone, the quality of the judiciary is generally considered very good, if not very expensive. Regulation of Fiduciary companies and the related banking and investment services offered in the Channel Islands is also considered good to excellent.\n\nSwitzerland and Liechtenstein are noteworthy for large banking sectors and sophisticated wealth management services. While both countries now recognize trusts (particularly trusts established under the laws of another jurisdiction, such as Nevis), there is no available case law yet which indicates how the courts of those two countries will enforce offshore asset protection trust laws.\n\nMany attorneys establish asset protection trusts under the laws of another country and deposit the trust assets in Switzerland or Liechtenstein. One question raised by this approach is whether a creditor can seize assets in Switzerland or Liechtenstein without having to bring a claim in the trust-protective jurisdiction. Again, a lack of precedent suggests that this is an open issue in Switzerland and Liechtenstein.\n\nBoth countries are also known for offering asset protection annuities, with a six-month statute of limitations on fraudulent transfers into an annuity. Unfortunately for most Americans, these annuities cannot invest in US securities without punitive taxation due to the offshore status of the insurance carriers that offer these annuity products. Furthermore, many lawyers peddling these annuity products to their clients collect commissions from the insurance carriers. These reasons, among others, may help explain why annuities offered in these two countries are not particularly popular with U.S. persons. This does not mean that taxpayers of other jurisdictions may not significantly benefit from holding a Swiss or Liechtenstein annuity. Also, U.S. persons may benefit from holding an annuity issued by a carrier in an asset-protective jurisdiction (such as the Cook Islands), particularly if the carrier is an electing 953(d) carrier (a reference to a provision of US tax law).\n\nWhether such a trust is a spendthrift trust on the U.S. model, a protective trust on the Commonwealth model or another form of discretionary trust, it is more likely to be subject to challenge under the common law doctrine of sham or under specific statutory provisions if any person setting up the trust (or their spouse and their spouse in turn as in a reciprocal trust):\n\nOffshore trusts and other asset protection vehicles typically do not prevent action against the individual concerned in his or her home country. Orders under divorce and creditor protection laws can typically be made against that individual notwithstanding the alleged independence of such trustees. If a judge determines that the trust settlor controls the assets of the offshore trust, the judge may order the settlor to repatriate the trust assets. Failure to comply with the court's order may lead to a finding of contempt of court and imprisonment. For this reason, a properly established asset protection trust should provide a clear separation between the settlor and those who exercise control over the trust assets.\n\nThe most recent case to rule on the merits of a contempt order is \"US v. Grant\". In 2005, a federal district court in Miami ordered a domestic protector of an offshore asset protection trust, under threat of contempt, to exercise her power to replace the foreign trustee with a domestic trustee chosen by the court. The ruling, \"U.S. v. Grant\" Case No. 00-08986-Civ-Jordan (D.C. So. Fla. 2005), threatened to draw into question the viability of an asset-protection trust if a domestic protector could be compelled to appoint a domestic trustee to marshal the assets and bring them within the purview of the domestic court proceedings.\n\nIn May 2008, the U.S. government sought to hold the domestic protector in contempt of court for failing to secure the cooperation of the foreign trustee to resign and repatriate the trust assets. The U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida ruled against the government, finding that the domestic protector could not be held in contempt for failure to gain the cooperation of the offshore trustee. In denying the government's contempt motion, the judge observed:\n\n\"I understand that it has been more than two years since the repatriation order was issued and that the funds had not yet been repatriated. But this failure is not for a lack of effort. I am reluctant to fault Mrs. Grant for her trustees' denial of her requests to repatriate the funds.\" \"U.S. v. Grant\", 2008 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 51332, 101 A.F. T.R.2d (RIA) 2676 (D.C. So. Fla. 2008).\n\nFor years, lawyers have vigorously debated the vulnerability of an asset protection trust with a domestic protector. The Grant case stands for the proposition that no vulnerability exists if the domestic protector complies with the court's orders. While a domestic protector may be required to make an effort to repatriate trust assets, failure to achieve repatriation should not entail any dire consequences to the trust or to the domestic protector. As long as a duress clause permits the foreign trustee to ignore the pleas of a domestic protector acting under threat of a contempt order, the selection of a domestic protector should not jeopardize the integrity of the offshore asset protection trust.\n\nWhile most attorneys draft trust agreements to limit the domestic protector's powers to those of a negative nature (i.e., the domestic protector may veto trustee decisions, but a domestic protector cannot order a trustee to do anything), the ruling in \"Grant\" implies that even positive powers exercisable by a domestic protector may not jeopardize an offshore asset protection trust containing a duress clause. Whether this leads attorneys to be more cavalier in their trust drafting remains to be seen. At least we know that traditional offshore asset protection trust planning works as anticipated.\n\nThere are rigorous US tax reporting requirements that apply to taxpayers who establish offshore trusts. While no additional tax is usually imposed, certain forms of asset protection trusts require full disclosure of all trust assets and activities on the U.S. contributor's tax returns. Confidentiality is usually not enjoyed under these arrangements.\n\nMost asset protection trusts established by U.S. settlors are considered \"grantor trusts\" under U.S. income tax law, meaning that all income of the trust is reportable on the grantor's (i.e., the settlor's) individual income tax return. Asset-protection trusts do not, in and of themselves, offer any tax advantages under U.S. income tax law.\n\n"}
{"id": "5789107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5789107", "title": "Association of Authorised Public Accountants", "text": "Association of Authorised Public Accountants\n\nThe Association of Authorised Public Accountants (AAPA) is a British professional body for public accountants.\n\nThe AAPA was formed in 1978 as a professional body for auditors recognised individually under the Companies Act 1948. AAPA achieved formal recognition by the Department of Trade and Industry in 1989 when the Companies Act received Royal Assent. In September 1991, AAPA achieved the status of a \"Recognised Supervisory Body\" and eligible AAPA members have since been entitled to use the designation \"Registered Auditor\". \n\nAAPA is not an examining body: all of its members have been admitted either because they have individual audit authorisation or because they have obtained a qualification from another body which is recognised for audit purposes in the UK.\n\nAt an Extraordinary General Meeting on 24 June 1996, members of AAPA voted for the body to become a subsidiary company of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA). AAPA is, therefore, a company limited by guarantee and registered in England. While maintaining its own separate and distinctive identity constitutionally, AAPA now benefits from a wide range of authorisation and support facilities through the ACCA.\n\nMembership is available to those who are in public practice (as principals or employees) in the following categories:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "317064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=317064", "title": "Balance of payments", "text": "Balance of payments\n\nThe balance of payments, also known as balance of international payments and abbreviated B.O.P. or BoP, of a country is the record of all economic transactions between the residents of the country and the rest of world in a particular period of time (over a quarter of a year or more commonly over a year). The balance of payments is a summary of all monetary transactions between a country and rest of the world. These transactions are made by individuals, firms and government bodies. Thus the balance of payments includes all external visible and non-visible transactions of a country. It is an important issue to be studied, especially in international financial management field, for a few reasons.\n\nFirst, the balance of payments provides detailed information concerning the demand and supply of a country's currency. For example, if Sudan imports more than it exports, then this means that the quantity supplied of Sudanese pounds by the domestic market is likely to exceed the quantity demanded in the foreign exchanging market, \"ceteris paribus\". One can thus infer that the Sudanese pound would be under pressure to depreciate against other currencies. On the other hand, if Sudan exports more than it imports, then the Sudanese pound would be likely to appreciate.\n\nSecond, a country's balance of payments data may signal its potential as a business partner for the rest of the world. If a country is grappling with a major balance of payments difficulty, it may not be able to expand imports from the outside world. Instead, the country may be tempted to impose measures to restrict imports and discourage capital outflows in order to improve the balance of payments situation. On the other hand, a country with a significant balance-of payment surplus would be more likely to expand imports, offering marketing opportunities for foreign enterprises, and less likely to impose foreign exchange restrictions.\n\nThird, balance of payments data can be used to evaluate the performance of the country in international economic competition. Suppose a country is experiencing trade deficits year after year. This trade data may then signal that the country's domestic industries lack international competitiveness. \n\nTo interpret balance of payments data properly, it is necessary to understand how the balance of payments account is constructed.\nThese transactions include payments for the country's exports and imports of goods, services, financial capital, and financial transfers. It is prepared in a single currency, typically the domestic currency for the country concerned. Balance of Payment account keeps the systematic records of all the economic transactions (visible and non-visible) both of a country with all other countries in the given or specific periods. In BoP account, all the receipts from abroad are recorded as credit and all the payments to abroad are debit. Since, the account is maintained by double entry book keeping system, it shows the balance of payment account is always balanced. Sources of funds for a nation, such as exports or the receipts of loans and investments, are recorded as positive or surplus items. Uses of funds, such as for imports or to invest in foreign countries, are recorded as negative or deficit items.\n\nWhen all components of the BoP accounts are included they must sum to zero with no overall surplus or deficit. For example, if a country is importing more than it exports, its trade balance will be in deficit, but the shortfall will have to be counterbalanced in other ways – such as by funds earned from its foreign investments, by running down currency reserves or by receiving loans from other countries.\n\nWhile the overall BoP accounts will always balance when all types of payments are included, imbalances are possible on individual elements of the BoP, such as the current account, the capital account excluding the central bank's reserve account, or the sum of the two. Imbalances in the latter sum can result in surplus countries accumulating wealth, while deficit nations become increasingly indebted. The term \"balance of payments\" often refers to this sum: a country's balance of payments is said to be in surplus (equivalently, the balance of payments is positive) by a specific amount if sources of funds (such as export goods sold and bonds sold) exceed uses of funds (such as paying for imported goods and paying for foreign bonds purchased) by that amount. There is said to be a balance of payments deficit (the balance of payments is said to be negative) if the former are less than the latter. A BoP surplus (or deficit) is accompanied by an accumulation (or decumulation) of foreign exchange reserves by the central bank.\n\nUnder a fixed exchange rate system, the central bank accommodates those flows by buying up any net inflow of funds into the country or by providing foreign currency funds to the foreign exchange market to match any international outflow of funds, thus preventing the funds flows from affecting the exchange rate between the country's currency and other currencies. Then the net change per year in the central bank's foreign exchange reserves is sometimes called the balance of payments surplus or deficit. Alternatives to a fixed exchange rate system include a managed float where some changes of exchange rates are allowed, or at the other extreme a purely floating exchange rate (also known as a purely \"flexible\" exchange rate). With a pure float the central bank does not intervene at all to protect or devalue its currency, allowing the rate to be set by the market, and the central bank's foreign exchange reserves do not change, and the balance of payments is always zero.\n\nThe current account shows the net amount of a country's income if it is in surplus, or spending if it is in deficit. It is the sum of the balance of trade (net earnings on exports minus payments for imports), factor income (earnings on foreign investments minus payments made to foreign investors) and cash transfers. It is called the \"current\" account as it covers transactions in the \"here and now\" – those that don't give rise to future claims.\n\nThe capital account records the net change in ownership of foreign assets. It includes the reserve account (the foreign exchange market operations of a nation's central bank), along with loans and investments between the country and the rest of world (but not the future interest payments and dividends that the loans and investments yield; those are earnings and will be recorded in the current account). If a country purchases more foreign assets for cash than the assets it sells for cash to other countries, the capital account is said to be negative or in deficit.\n\nThe term \"capital account\" is also used in the narrower sense that excludes central bank foreign exchange market operations: Sometimes the reserve account is classified as \"below the line\" and so not reported as part of the capital account.\n\nExpressed with the broader meaning for the \"capital account\", the BoP identity states that any current account surplus will be balanced by a capital account deficit of equal size – or alternatively a current account deficit will be balanced by a corresponding capital account surplus:\n\nThe \"balancing item\", which may be positive or negative, is simply an amount that accounts for any statistical errors and assures that the current and capital accounts sum to zero. By the principles of double entry accounting, an entry in the current account gives rise to an entry in the capital account, and in aggregate the two accounts automatically balance. A balance isn't always reflected in reported figures for the current and capital accounts, which might, for example, report a surplus for both accounts, but when this happens it always means something has been missed – most commonly, the operations of the country's central bank – and what has been missed is recorded in the statistical discrepancy term (the balancing item).\n\nAn actual balance sheet will typically have numerous sub headings under the principal divisions. For example, entries under Current account might include:\n\nEspecially in older balance sheets, a common division was between visible and invisible entries. Visible trade recorded imports and exports of physical goods (entries for trade in physical goods excluding services is now often called the \"merchandise balance\"). Invisible trade would record international buying and selling of services, and sometimes would be grouped with transfer and factor income as invisible earnings.\n\nThe term \"balance of payments surplus\" (or deficit – a deficit is simply a negative surplus) refers to the sum of the surpluses in the current account and the narrowly defined capital account (excluding changes in central bank reserves). Denoting the balance of payments surplus as BoP surplus, the relevant identity is\n\nEconomics writer J. Orlin Grabbe warns the term \"balance of payments\" can be a source of misunderstanding due to divergent expectations about what the term denotes. Grabbe says the term is sometimes misused by people who aren't aware of the accepted meaning, not only in general conversation but in financial publications and the economic literature.\n\nA common source of confusion arises from whether or not the \"reserve account\" entry, part of the \"capital account\", is included in the BoP accounts. The reserve account records the activity of the nation's central bank. If it is excluded, the BoP can be in surplus (which implies the central bank is building up foreign exchange reserves) or in deficit (which implies the central bank is running down its reserves or borrowing from abroad).\n\nThe term \"balance of payments\" is sometimes misused by non-economists to mean just relatively narrow parts of the BoP such as the trade deficit, which means excluding parts of the current account and the entire capital account.\n\nAnother cause of confusion is the different naming conventions in use. Before 1973 there was no standard way to break down the BoP sheet, with the separation into invisible and visible payments sometimes being the principal divisions. The IMF have their own standards for BoP accounting which is equivalent to the standard definition but uses different nomenclature, in particular with respect to the meaning given to the term \"capital account\".\n\nThe International Monetary Fund (I.M.F.) use a particular set of definitions for the BoP accounts, which is also used by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), and the United Nations System of National Accounts (SNA).\n\nThe main difference in the IMF's terminology is that it uses the term \"financial account\" to capture transactions that would under alternative definitions be recorded in the \"capital account\". The IMF uses the term \"capital account\" to designate a subset of transactions that, according to other usage, previously formed a small part of the overall current account. The IMF separates these transactions out to form an additional top level division of the BoP accounts. Expressed with the IMF definition, the BoP identity can be written:\n\nThe IMF uses the term \"current account\" with the same meaning as that used by other organizations, although it has its own names for its three leading sub-divisions, which are:\nbalance of payments are also known as \"balance of international trade\"\n\nWhile the BoP has to balance overall,surpluses or deficits on its individual elements can lead to imbalances between countries. In general there is concern over deficits in the current account.\nCountries with deficits in their current accounts will build up increasing debt or see increased foreign ownership of their assets. The types of deficits that typically raise concern are\n\nAs discussed in the history section below, the \"Washington Consensus\" period saw a swing of opinion towards the view that there is no need to worry about imbalances. Opinion swung back in the opposite direction in the wake of \"financial crisis of 2007–2009\". Mainstream opinion expressed by the leading financial press and economists, international bodies like the IMF – as well as leaders of surplus and deficit countries – has returned to the view that large current account imbalances do matter. Some economists do, however, remain relatively unconcerned about imbalances\nand there have been assertions, such as by Michael P. Dooley, David Folkerts-Landau and Peter Garber, that nations need to avoid temptation to switch to protectionism as a means to correct imbalances.\n\nCurrent account surpluses are facing current account deficits of other countries, the indebtedness of which towards abroad therefore increases. According to Balances Mechanics by Wolfgang Stützel this is described as surplus of expenses over the revenues. Increasing imbalances in foreign trade are critically discussed as a possible cause of the financial crisis since 2007. Many keynesian economists consider the existing differences between the current accounts in the eurozone to be the root cause of the Euro crisis, for instance Heiner Flassbeck, Paul Krugman or Joseph Stiglitz.\n\nThere are conflicting views as to the primary cause of BoP imbalances, with much attention on the US which currently has by far the biggest deficit. The conventional view is that current account factors are the primary cause – these include the exchange rate, the government's fiscal deficit, business competitiveness, and private behaviour such as the willingness of consumers to go into debt to finance extra consumption.\nAn alternative view, argued at length in a 2005 paper by Ben Bernanke, is that the primary driver is the capital account, where a global savings glut caused by savers in surplus countries, runs ahead of the available investment opportunities, and is pushed into the US resulting in excess consumption and asset price inflation.\n\nIn the context of BoP and international monetary systems, the reserve asset is the currency or other store of value that is primarily used by nations for their foreign reserves. BoP imbalances tend to manifest as hoards of the reserve asset being amassed by surplus countries, with deficit countries building debts denominated in the reserve asset or at least depleting their supply. Under a gold standard, the reserve asset for all members of the standard is gold. In the Bretton Woods system, either gold or the U.S. dollar could serve as the reserve asset, though its smooth operation depended on countries apart from the US choosing to keep most of their holdings in dollars.\n\nFollowing the ending of Bretton Woods, there has been no \"de jure\" reserve asset, but the US dollar has remained by far the principal \"de facto\" reserve. Global reserves rose sharply in the first decade of the 21st century, partly as a result of the 1997 Asian Financial Crisis, where several nations ran out of foreign currency needed for essential imports and thus had to accept deals on unfavourable terms. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) estimates that between 2000 and mid-2009, official reserves rose from $1,900bn to $6,800bn.\nGlobal reserves had peaked at about $7,500bn in mid-2008, then declined by about $430bn as countries without their own reserve currency used them to shield themselves from the worst effects of the financial crisis. From Feb 2009 global reserves began increasing again to reach close to $9,200bn by the end of 2010.\n, approximately 65% of the world's $6,800bn total is held in U.S. dollars and approximately 25% in euros. The UK pound, Japanese yen, IMF special drawing rights (SDRs), and precious metals also play a role.\nIn 2009, Zhou Xiaochuan, governor of the People's Bank of China, proposed a gradual move towards increased use of SDRs, and also for the national currencies backing SDRs to be expanded to include the currencies of all major economies.\n\nDr Zhou's proposal has been described as one of the most significant ideas expressed in 2009.\n\nWhile the current central role of the dollar does give the US some advantages, such as lower cost of borrowings, it also contributes to the pressure causing the U.S. to run a current account deficit, due to the Triffin dilemma. In a November 2009 article published in \"Foreign Affairs\" magazine, economist C. Fred Bergsten argued that Dr Zhou's suggestion or a similar change to the international monetary system would be in the United States' best interests as well as the rest of the world's.\nSince 2009 there has been a notable increase in the number of new bilateral agreements which enable international trades to be transacted using a currency that isn't a traditional reserve asset, such as the renminbi, as the Settlement currency.\n\nA BoP crisis, also called a \"currency crisis\", occurs when a nation is unable to pay for essential imports or service its external debt repayments. Typically, this is accompanied by a rapid decline in the value of the affected nation's currency. Crises are generally preceded by large capital inflows, which are associated at first with rapid economic growth. However a point is reached where overseas investors become concerned about the level of debt their inbound capital is generating, and decide to pull out their funds. The resulting outbound capital flows are associated with a rapid drop in the value of the affected nation's currency. This causes issues for firms of the affected nation who have received the inbound investments and loans, as the revenue of those firms is typically mostly derived domestically but their debts are often denominated in a reserve currency. Once the nation's government has exhausted its foreign reserves trying to support the value of the domestic currency, its policy options are very limited. It can raise its interest rates to try to prevent further declines in the value of its currency, but while this can help those with debts denominated in foreign currencies, it generally further depresses the local economy.\n\nOne of the three fundamental functions of an international monetary system is to provide mechanisms to correct imbalances.\n\nBroadly speaking, there are three possible methods to correct BoP imbalances, though in practice a mixture including some degree of at least the first two methods tends to be used. These methods are adjustments of exchange rates; adjustment of a nations internal prices along with its levels of demand; and rules based adjustment. Improving productivity and hence competitiveness can also help, as can increasing the desirability of exports through other means, though it is generally assumed a nation is always trying to develop and sell its products to the best of its abilities.\n\nAn upwards shift in the value of a nation's currency relative to others will make a nation's exports less competitive and make imports cheaper and so will tend to correct a current account surplus. It also tends to make investment flows into the capital account less attractive so will help with a surplus there too. Conversely a downward shift in the value of a nation's currency makes it more expensive for its citizens to buy imports and increases the competitiveness of their exports, thus helping to correct a deficit (though the solution often doesn't have a positive impact immediately due to the Marshall–Lerner condition).\n\nExchange rates can be adjusted by government in a rules based or managed currency regime, and when left to float freely in the market they also tend to change in the direction that will restore balance. When a country is selling more than it imports, the demand for its currency will tend to increase as other countries ultimately need the selling country's currency to make payments for the exports. The extra demand tends to cause a rise of the currency's price relative to others. When a country is importing more than it exports, the supply of its own currency on the international market tends to increase as it tries to exchange it for foreign currency to pay for its imports, and this extra supply tends to cause the price to fall. BoP effects are not the only market influence on exchange rates however, they are also influenced by differences in national interest rates and by speculation.\n\nWhen exchange rates are fixed by a rigid gold standard, or when imbalances exist between members of a currency union such as the Eurozone, the standard approach to correct imbalances is by making changes to the domestic economy. To a large degree, the change is optional for the surplus country, but compulsory for the deficit country. In the case of a gold standard, the mechanism is largely automatic. When a country has a favourable trade balance, as a consequence of selling more than it buys it will experience a net inflow of gold. The natural effect of this will be to increase the money supply, which leads to inflation and an increase in prices, which then tends to make its goods less competitive and so will decrease its trade surplus. However the nation has the option of taking the gold out of economy (sterilising the inflationary effect) thus building up a hoard of gold and retaining its favourable balance of payments. On the other hand, if a country has an adverse BoP it will experience a net loss of gold, which will automatically have a deflationary effect, unless it chooses to leave the gold standard. Prices will be reduced, making its exports more competitive, and thus correcting the imbalance. While the gold standard is generally considered to have been successful up until 1914, correction by deflation to the degree required by the large imbalances that arose after WWI proved painful, with deflationary policies contributing to prolonged unemployment but not re-establishing balance. Apart from the US most former members had left the gold standard by the mid-1930s.\n\nA possible method for surplus countries such as Germany to contribute to re-balancing efforts when exchange rate adjustment is not suitable, is to increase its level of internal demand (i.e. its spending on goods). While a current account surplus is commonly understood as the excess of earnings over spending, an alternative expression is that it is the excess of savings over investment.\nThat is:\nwhere \"CA\" = current account, \"NS\" = national savings (private plus government sector), \"NI\" = national investment.\n\nIf a nation is earning more than it spends the net effect will be to build up savings, except to the extent that those savings are being used for investment. If consumers can be encouraged to spend more instead of saving; or if the government runs a fiscal deficit to offset private savings; or if the corporate sector divert more of their profits to investment, then any current account surplus will tend to be reduced. However, in 2009 Germany amended its constitution to prohibit running a deficit greater than 0.35% of its GDP\nand calls to reduce its surplus by increasing demand have not been welcome by officials,\nadding to fears that the 2010s will not be an easy decade for the eurozone.\nIn their April 2010 world economic outlook report, the IMF presented a study showing how with the right choice of policy options governments can shift away from a sustained current account surplus with no negative effect on growth and with a positive impact on unemployment.\n\nNations can agree to fix their exchange rates against each other, and then correct any imbalances that arise by rules based and negotiated exchange rate changes and other methods. The Bretton Woods system of fixed but adjustable exchange rates was an example of a rules based system. John Maynard Keynes, one of the architects of the Bretton Woods system had wanted additional rules to encourage surplus countries to share the burden of rebalancing, as he argued that they were in a stronger position to do so and as he regarded their surpluses as negative externalities imposed on the global economy.\nKeynes suggested that traditional balancing mechanisms should be supplemented by the threat of confiscation of a portion of excess revenue if the surplus country did not choose to spend it on additional imports. However his ideas were not accepted by the Americans at the time. In 2008 and 2009, American economist Paul Davidson had been promoting his revamped form of Keynes's plan as a possible solution to global imbalances which in his opinion would expand growth all round without the downside risk of other rebalancing methods.\n\nHistorically, accurate balance of payments figures were not generally available. However, this did not prevent a number of switches in opinion on questions relating to whether or not a nation’s government should use policy to encourage a favourable balance.\n\nUp until the early 19th century, international trade was generally very small in comparison with national output, and was often heavily regulated. In the Middle Ages, European trade was typically regulated at municipal level in the interests of security for local industry and for established merchants. From about the 16th century, mercantilism became the dominant economic theory influencing European rulers, which saw local regulation replaced by national rules aiming to harness the countries' economic output.\nMeasures to promote a trade surplus such as tariffs were generally favoured. Power was associated with wealth, and with low levels of growth, nations were best able to accumulate funds either by running trade surpluses or by forcefully confiscating the wealth of others. Rulers sometimes strove to have their countries outsell competitors and so build up a \"war chest\" of gold.\n\nThis era saw low levels of economic growth; average global per capita income is not considered to have significantly risen in the whole 800 years leading up to 1820, and is estimated to have increased on average by less than 0.1% per year between 1700 and 1820. With very low levels of financial integration between nations and with international trade generally making up a low proportion of individual nations' GDP, BOP crises were very rare.\n\nFrom the late 18th century, mercantilism was challenged by the ideas of Adam Smith and other economic thinkers favouring free trade. After victory in the Napoleonic wars Great Britain began promoting free trade, unilaterally reducing her trade tariffs. Hoarding of gold was no longer encouraged, and in fact Britain exported more capital as a percentage of her national income than any other creditor nation has since. Great Britain's capital exports further helped to correct global imbalances as they tended to be counter cyclical, rising when Britain's economy went into recession, thus compensating other states for income lost from export of goods.\n\nAccording to historian Carroll Quigley, Great Britain could afford to act benevolently in the 19th century due to the advantages of her geographical location, its naval power and economic ascendancy as the first nation to enjoy an industrial revolution.\nA view advanced by economists such as Barry Eichengreen is that the first age of Globalization began with the laying of transatlantic telegraph cables in the 1860s, which facilitated a rapid increase in the already growing trade between Britain and America.\n\nThough Current Account controls were still widely used (in fact all industrial nations apart from Great Britain and the Netherlands actually increased their tariffs and quotas in the decades leading up to 1914, though this was motivated more by a desire to protect \"infant industries\" than to encourage a trade surplus), capital controls were largely absent, and people were generally free to cross international borders without requiring passports.\n\nA gold standard enjoyed wide international participation especially from 1870, further contributing to close economic integration between nations. The period saw substantial global growth, in particular for the volume of international trade which grew tenfold between 1820 and 1870 and then by about 4% annually from 1870 to 1914. BoP crises began to occur, though less frequently than was to be the case for the remainder of the 20th century. From 1880 to 1914, there were approximately 8 BoP crises and 8 \"twin crises\" – a twin crises being a BoP crises that coincides with a banking crises.\n\nThe favorable economic conditions that had prevailed up until 1914 were shattered by the first world war, and efforts to re-establish them in the 1920s were not successful. Several countries rejoined the gold standard around 1925. But surplus countries didn't \"play by the rules\", sterilising gold inflows to a much greater degree than had been the case in the pre-war period. Deficit nations such as Great Britain found it harder to adjust by deflation as workers were more enfranchised and unions in particular were able to resist downwards pressure on wages. During the Great Depression most countries abandoned the gold standard, but imbalances remained an issue and international trade declined sharply. There was a return to mercantilist type \"beggar thy neighbour\" policies, with countries competitively devaluing their exchange rates, thus effectively competing to export unemployment. There were approximately 16 BoP crises and 15 twin crises (and a comparatively very high level of banking crises.)\n\nFollowing World War II, the Bretton Woods institutions (the International Monetary Fund and World Bank) were set up to support an international monetary system designed to encourage free trade while also offering states options to correct imbalances without having to deflate their economies. Fixed but flexible exchange rates were established, with the system anchored by the dollar which alone remained convertible into gold. The Bretton Woods system ushered in a period of high global growth, known as the Golden Age of Capitalism, however it came under pressure due to the inability or unwillingness of governments to maintain effective capital controls\nand due to instabilities related to the central role of the dollar.\n\nImbalances caused gold to flow out of the US and a loss of confidence in the United States ability to supply gold for all future claims by dollar holders resulted in escalating demands to convert dollars, ultimately causing the US to end the convertibility of the dollar into gold, thus ending the Bretton Woods system. The 1945–71 era saw approximately 24 BoP crises and no twin crises for advanced economies, with emerging economies seeing 16 BoP crises and just one twin crises.\n\nThe Bretton Woods system came to an end between 1971 and 1973. There were attempts to repair the system of fixed exchanged rates over the next few years, but these were soon abandoned, as were determined efforts for the U.S. to avoid BoP imbalances. Part of the reason was displacement of the previous dominant economic paradigm – Keynesianism – by the Washington Consensus, with economists and economics writers such as Murray Rothbard and Milton Friedman arguing that there was no great need to be concerned about BoP issues.\n\nIn the immediate aftermath of the Bretton Woods collapse, countries generally tried to retain some control over their exchange rate by independently managing it, or by intervening in the foreign exchange market as part of a regional bloc, such as the Snake which formed in 1971. \"The Snake\" was a group of European countries who tried to retain stable rates at least with each other; the group eventually evolved into the European Exchange Rate Mechanism (ERM) by 1979. From the mid-1970s however, and especially in the 1980s and early 1990s, many other countries followed the US in liberalising controls on both their capital and current accounts, in adopting a somewhat relaxed attitude to their balance of payments and in allowing the value of their currency to float relatively freely with exchange rates determined mostly by the market.\n\nDeveloping countries who chose to allow the market to determine their exchange rates would often develop sizeable current account deficits, financed by capital account inflows such as loans and investments, though this often ended in crises when investors lost confidence.\n\nThe frequency of crises was especially high for developing economies in this era – from 1973 to 1997 emerging economies suffered 57 BoP crises and 21 twin crises. Typically but not always the panic among foreign creditors and investors that preceded the crises in this period was usually triggered by concerns over excess borrowing by the private sector, rather than by a government deficit. For advanced economies, there were 30 BoP crises and 6 banking crises.\n\nA turning point was the 1997 Asian BoP Crisis, where unsympathetic responses by western powers caused policy makers in emerging economies to re-assess the wisdom of relying on the free market; by 1999 the developing world as a whole stopped running current account deficits while the U.S. current account deficit began to rise sharply.\n\nThis new form of imbalance began to develop in part due to the increasing practice of emerging economies, principally China, in pegging their currency against the dollar, rather than allowing the value to freely float. The resulting state of affairs has been referred to as Bretton Woods II. According to Alaistair Chan, \"At the heart of the imbalance is China's desire to keep the value of the yuan stable against the dollar. Usually, a rising trade surplus leads to a rising value of the currency. A rising currency would make exports more expensive, imports less so, and push the trade surplus towards balance. China circumvents the process by intervening in exchange markets and keeping the value of the yuan depressed.\"\nAccording to economics writer Martin Wolf, in the eight years leading up to 2007, \"three-quarters of the foreign currency reserves accumulated since the beginning of time have been piled up\".\nIn contrast to the changed approach within the emerging economies, US policy makers and economists remained relatively unconcerned about BOP imbalances. In the early to mid-1990s, many free market economists and policy makers such as U.S. Treasury secretary Paul O'Neill and Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan went on record suggesting the growing US deficit was not a major concern. While several emerging economies had intervening to boost their reserves and assist their exporters from the late 1980s, they only began running a net current account surplus after 1999. This was mirrored in the faster growth for the US current account deficit from the same year, with surpluses, deficits and the associated buildup of reserves by the surplus countries reaching record levels by the early 2000s and growing year by year. Some economists such as Kenneth Rogoff and Maurice Obstfeld began warning that the record imbalances would soon need to be addressed from as early as 2001, joined by Nouriel Roubini in 2004, but it was not until about 2007 that their concerns began to be accepted by the majority of economists.\n\nSpeaking after the 2009 G-20 London summit, Gordon Brown announced \"the Washington Consensus is over\".\nThere is now broad agreement that large imbalances between different countries do matter; for example mainstream U.S. economist C. Fred Bergsten has argued the U.S. deficit and the associated large inbound capital flows into the U.S. was one of the causes of the financial crisis of 2007–2010.\nSince the crisis, government intervention in BOP areas such as the imposition of capital controls or foreign exchange market intervention has become more common and in general attracts less disapproval from economists, international institutions like the IMF and other governments.\nIn 2007, when the crises began, the global total of yearly BoP imbalances was $1680 billion. On the credit side, the biggest current account surplus was China with approx. $362 billion, followed by Japan at $213 billion and Germany at £185 billion, with oil producing countries such as Saudi Arabia also having large surpluses.\nOn the debit side, the US had the biggest current account deficit at over $1100 billion, with the UK, Spain and Australia together accounting for close to a further $300 billion.\n\nWhile there have been warnings of future cuts in public spending, deficit countries on the whole did not make these in 2009, in fact the opposite happened with increased public spending contributing to recovery as part of global efforts to increase demand. The emphases has instead been on the surplus countries, with the IMF, EU and nations such as the U.S., Brazil and Russia asking them to assist with the adjustments to correct the imbalances.\n\nEconomists such as Gregor Irwin and Philip R. Lane have suggested that increased use of pooled reserves could help emerging economies not to require such large reserves and thus have less need for current account surpluses.\n\nWriting for the FT in Jan 2009, Gillian Tett says she expects to see policy makers becoming increasingly concerned about exchange rates over the coming year.\nIn June 2009, Olivier Blanchard the chief economist of the IMF wrote that rebalancing the world economy by reducing both sizeable surpluses and deficits will be a requirement for sustained recovery.\n\nIn 2008 and 2009, there was some reduction in imbalances, but early indications towards the end of 2009 were that major imbalances such as the U.S. current account deficit are set to begin increasing again.\n\nJapan had allowed her currency to appreciate through 2009, but has only limited scope to contribute to the rebalancing efforts thanks in part to her aging population. The euro used by Germany is allowed to float fairly freely in value, however further appreciation would be problematic for other members of the currency union such as Spain, Greece and Ireland who run large deficits. Therefore, Germany has instead been asked to contribute by further promoting internal demand, but this hasn't been welcomed by German officials.\n\nChina has been requested to allow the renminbi to appreciate but until 2010 had refused, the position expressed by her premier Wen Jiabao being that by keeping the value of the renmimbi stable against the dollar China has been helping the global recovery, and that calls to let her currency rise in value have been motivated by a desire to hold back China's development. After China reported favourable results for her December 2009 exports however, the Financial Times reported that analysts are optimistic that China will allow some appreciation of her currency around mid-2010.\n\nIn April 2010 a Chinese official signalled the government is considering allowing the renminbi to appreciate,\nbut by May analysts were widely reporting the appreciation would likely be delayed due to the falling value of the Euro following the 2010 European sovereign debt crisis.\nChina announced the end of the renminbi's peg to the dollar in June 2010; the move was widely welcomed by markets and helped defuse tension over imbalances prior to the 2010 G-20 Toronto summit. However the renminbi remains managed and the new flexibility means it can move down as well as up in value; two months after the peg ended the renminbi had only appreciated against the dollar by about 0.8%.\n\nBy January 2011, the renminbi had appreciated against the dollar by 3.7%, which means it's on track to appreciate in nominal terms by 6% per year. As this reflects a real appreciation of 10% when China's higher inflation is accounted for, the U.S. Treasury once again declined to label China a currency manipulator in their February 2011 report to Congress. However Treasury officials did advise the rate of appreciation was still too slow for the best interests of the global economy.\n\nIn February 2011, Moody's analyst Alaistair Chan has predicted that despite a strong case for an upward revaluation, an increased rate of appreciation against the dollar is unlikely in the short term. And as of February 2012, China's currency had been continuing to appreciate for a year and a half, while drawing remarkably little notice.\n\nWhile some leading surplus countries including China have been taking steps to boost domestic demand, these have not yet been sufficient to rebalance out of their current account surpluses. By June 2010, the U.S. monthly current account deficit had risen back to $50 billion, a level not seen since mid-2008. With the US currently suffering from high unemployment and concerned about taking on additional debt, fears are rising that the US may resort to protectionist measures.\n\nBy September 2010, international tensions relating to imbalances had further increased. Brazil's finance minister Guido Mantega declared that an \"international currency war\" has broken out, with countries competitively trying to devalue their currency so as to boost exports. Brazil has been one of the few major economies lacking a reserve currency to abstain from significant currency intervention, with the real rising by 25% against the dollar since January 2009. Some economists such as Barry Eichengreen have argued that competitive devaluation may be a good thing as the net result will effectively be equivalent to expansionary global monetary policy. Others such as Martin Wolf saw risks of tensions further escalating and advocated that coordinated action for addressing imbalances should be agreed on at the November G20 summit.\n\nCommentators largely agreed that little substantive progress was made on imbalances at the November 2010 G20. An IMF report released after the summit warned that without additional progress there is a risk of imbalances approximately doubling to reach pre-crises levels by 2014.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7961165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7961165", "title": "Bargaining unit", "text": "Bargaining unit\n\nA bargaining unit, in labor relations, is a group of employees with a clear and identifiable community of interests who are (under U.S. law) represented by a single labor union in collective bargaining and other dealings with management. Examples would be \"non-management professors\", \"law enforcement professionals\", \"blue-collar workers\", \"clerical and administrative employees\", etc. Geographic location as well as the number of facilities included in bargaining units can be at issue during representation cases.\n\nThe size of a company does not relate to the size of a bargaining unit. Bargaining units must consist of at least three employees, and must have the support of a majority of employees in the bargaining unit. However, the bargaining unit can be a small portion of a large company where no other employees are members of a union. \n\n"}
{"id": "23015263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23015263", "title": "Carlos Fitzcarrald", "text": "Carlos Fitzcarrald\n\nCarlos Fermín Fitzcarrald (1862 – 9 July 1897) was a Peruvian rubber baron. He was born in San Luis, Ancash. \n\nFitzcarrald was the oldest son of an Irish-American sailor who later became a trader and married a Peruvian wife. He became established as a rubber baron in the late 19th century. Determined to find a way to transport rubber out of the Madre de Dios region, he exploited native workers. He forced them under pain of death to dismantle and transport a ship over a mountain during the turn-of-the-20th-century rubber boom in the Amazon Basin.\n\nStarting in 1894, he explored the Madre de Dios region of BAP Fitzcarrald in Lake Sandoval, Madre de Dios, Peru. He founded the City of Puerto Maldonado and explored the area that is now the Manu Biosphere Reserve. To achieve this, it was necessary to transport his steam ship piece by piece over the mountains to the Madre de Dios basin.\n\nFitzcarrald discovered a short passage overland between the Mishagua River, a tributary of the Urubamba, and the Manu, a tributary of the Madre de Dios River. The former leads into the Ucayali River. The Isthmus of Fitzcarrald was later named for him, as discovery of this route enabled transport of rubber from the Madre de Dios region. It was transferred to ships on the Mishagua, which could reach the Urubamba, the Ucayali River and thereby down the Amazon to markets and Atlantic ports for export. \n\nHis expeditions into the Madre de Dios region are considered to be the root of the modern-day divide between the local Yine and Mashco Piro peoples. The Yine are the descendants of the natives that Fitzcarrald forced to work for him, while the Mascho are the descendants of the natives that fled following Fitzcarrald's arrival.\n\nHe died at age 35 when his ship \"Contamana\" sank in Urubamba in an accident.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21623277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21623277", "title": "Cecil Commerce Center", "text": "Cecil Commerce Center\n\nCecil Commerce Center (CCC) is a commercial and industrial center in Jacksonville, Florida. It is located on Jacksonville's Westside on the former Naval Air Station Cecil Field, and includes Cecil Airport. The 17 thousand-acre center represents more than three percent of the land area in Duval County, most of it zoned for development. The property was conveyed to the City of Jacksonville and converted to its current use between 1999 and 2002.\n\nIn July 1993, former Naval Air Station Cecil Field in Jacksonville, Florida was recommended for closure by the Base Realignment and Closure Commission. In response to the decision to close NAS Cecil Field, the Mayor of Jacksonville established the Cecil Field Development Commission, succeeded by the Jacksonville Economic Development Commission (JEDC), and later the Office of Economic Development (OED). One of the major responsibilities of the commission was to develop a proposed base reuse plan that would guide the transition of NAS Cecil Field from a fully operational Navy base to civilian use.\n\nIn 1996, the NAS Cecil Field Final Base Reuse Plan was approved and in March 1999, the Jacksonville City Council approved the Cecil Commerce Center Operations and Business Plan.\nThe plan projected that businesses at the CCC would have 5,600 employees by 2009 and 25,000 by 2019. Between July 1999 and April 2002, property was conveyed to the JEDC (now the OED), Jacksonville Aviation Authority (JAA), the City of Jacksonville Parks Department and Clay County.\n\nExisting recreational facilities within the area were included with surrounding acreage to create the Cecil Recreation Complex, which was expanded to create the Jacksonville Equestrian Center, Cecil Aquatic Center, and other new recreation opportunities.\n\nSince the time of the conveyance of approximately , the OED has worked to promote the site as a prime location for companies in the manufacturing, industrial-related and distribution industries, as well as other uses including support retail and office space along the main roads.\n\nThe Jacksonville Aviation Authority controls the land surrounding the airport and south of Normandy Boulevard. Several aviation companies have leased all the former Navy hangars at the airport. Most of this area was developed by the Navy before the base was closed. Land to the north of Normandy Boulevard is controlled by the city of Jacksonville, and is mostly wetlands. Many sites require four feet of fill, establishing drainage and building a road to the parcel from New World Avenue, the main thoroughfare connecting Normandy with Cecil Commerce Center Parkway. There is also no railroad service at CCC, so if a business needed it, the city would need to pay for a spur that crosses Interstate 10.\nThe biggest development goal was to attract a mega-project, such as an aircraft or vehicle assembly plant which would employ thousands. Those projects usually depend on incentives, and competition among the states of North Carolina, Georgia, Alabama and Florida is intense. CCC has competed for several big deals, including an aircraft manufacturing plant for Boeing, a complex for Spirit AeroSystems, and a van assembly plant for DaimlerChrysler.\n\nThe Cecil Commerce Center Parkway and I-10 interchange was completed in October, 2009. The $62 million project provided direct access to Cecil Commerce Center and was the first section of the new, regional First Coast Expressway. In 2009, the actual number of people employed at CCC in 2009 was approximately 2,000, just one third of the projected number.\n\nOn June 8, 2010, the city signed a contract with Hillwood as Master Developer for CCC to \nexpedite development, provide expertise, strategy and private capital for the long term project.\n\n\nCurrently, there are more than 2,500 jobs generated by the various entities located at Cecil Commerce Center. A listing of these various establishments includes:\n\n"}
{"id": "51713946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51713946", "title": "Chung Yoon-hoi", "text": "Chung Yoon-hoi\n\nChung Yoon-hoi (born 1955) is a South Korean businessman. He was the chief of staff to president Park Geun-hye when she was a second-term lawmaker.\n\nTatsuya Kato, former Seoul bureau chief of the Sankei Shimbun newspaper, wrote an article alleging that after the sinking of MV Sewol ferry, president Park was incommunicado for seven important hours, and could have been with Chung at that time. However, he was accused by Korean prosecutors for defamation of President Park.\n\nChung was previously married to Korean shaman Choi Soon-sil.. His daughter, Chung Yoo-ra, is a gold medalists in equestrian.\n"}
{"id": "489123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=489123", "title": "Detroit People Mover", "text": "Detroit People Mover\n\nThe Detroit People Mover (DPM) is a automated people mover system which operates on a single track, and encircles Downtown Detroit, Michigan. The People Mover uses Urban Transportation Development Corporation Intermediate Capacity Transit System Mark I technology and the cars are driverless. A siding allows the system to be used in a two-way bypass manner when part of the circular track is closed.\n\nThe QLine streetcar serves as a link between the Detroit People Mover and New Center Amtrak station, plus additional access to DDOT and SMART bus routes as part of a comprehensive network of transportation in metropolitan Detroit.\n\nThe Detroit People Mover has its origins in 1966, with Congressional creation of the Urban Mass Transportation Administration (UMTA) to develop new types of transit. In 1975, following the failure to produce any large-scale results and increased pressure to show results, UMTA created the Downtown People Mover Program (DPM) and sponsored a nationwide competition that offered federal funds to cover much of the cost of planning and construction of such a system. UMTA reviewed thirty-five full proposals. From these, they selected proposals from Cleveland, Houston, Los Angeles, and St. Paul. In addition, UMTA decided they would approve proposals from Baltimore, Detroit, and Miami to develop People Mover systems if they could do so with existing grant commitments. Of the seven cities with UMTA approval for their People Mover proposals, only Detroit and Miami persevered to build and operate systems.\n\nThe Ford Motor Company was involved in one of the designs of the People Mover and had hired AlScott Service Company to design and build a room size working model of the system. This model was used for Ford's proposals in their attempt to build the system.\n\nThe People Mover was intended to be the downtown distributor for a proposed city and metro-wide light rail transit system for Detroit in the early 1980s; however, funding was scaled back. President Gerald Ford had promised 600 million in federal funds. Plans included a subway line along Woodward Avenue that would turn into a street level train at McNichols and eventually go all the way to Pontiac, with additional rail lines running along Gratiot and a commuter line between Detroit and Port Huron. Inability of local leaders to come to an agreement led to the 600 million commitment being withdrawn by the Reagan Administration. Yet the People Mover still moved forward. At the time of planning, the system was projected to have a ridership of 67,700 daily.\n\nThe People Mover is owned and operated by the Detroit Transportation Corporation (DTC). The DTC was incorporated in 1985 as a Michigan Public Body Corporate for the purpose of acquiring, owning, constructing, furnishing, equipping, completing, operating, improving, enlarging, and/or disposing of the Central Automated Transit Systems (CATS) in Detroit, Michigan. DTC acquired the CATS project from the Suburban Mobile Authority for Regional Transportation (SMART) formerly known as the Southeastern Michigan Transportation Authority (SEMTA), on October 4, 1985. The DTC was created by the City of Detroit, Michigan pursuant to Act 7 of Public Acts of 1967 and is a component unit of the City of Detroit and accounts its activity as per proprietary funds.\n\nThe CATS project, aka the Downtown People Mover (DPM), officially opened to the public on July 31, 1987. Prior to November 18, 1988, the People Mover System was operated and maintained by the primary contractor, Urban Transportation Development Corporation (UTDC) on a month-to-month basis. On November 18, 1988, the DTC assumed the responsibility to operate and maintain the People Mover System.\n\nThe system opened in 1987 using the same technology as Vancouver's SkyTrain and Toronto's Scarborough RT line. In the first year, an average of 11,000 riders used the People Mover each day; the one-day record was 54,648.\n\nWhen the People Mover opened, it ran counter-clockwise. On July 20, 2008, the system was shut down temporarily to replace track on six of the curves along the route. When it reopened in August, the system was run clockwise, as it is still run today, although it can run in either direction when necessary. The change in direction reduced the time required to complete one round-trip. The clockwise direction has one short, relatively steep uphill climb and then coasts downhill for a majority of the ride, allowing the train to use gravity to accelerate. This makes each round-trip slightly faster than running uphill most of the way in the counter-clockwise direction.\n\nOn January 22, 2015 at approximately 10:10 PM, one of the cars jumped a rail hitting the rail platform. This prompted the system to be temporarily shut down to allow an investigation to take place. After 17 hours of investigation, the system resumed service. According to a media release given by the inspectors, \"A bracket beneath one of the People Mover cars dislodged, catching under the rear car of the train approaching Times Square Station. This caused the rear car to come out of alignment and leave the rail. As a result, the second car scraped the platform, dislodging the door as the train pulled into the station.\"\n\nThe Mover costs $12 million annually in city and state subsidies to run. The cost-effectiveness of the Mover has drawn criticism. In every year between 1997 and 2006, the cost per passenger mile exceeded $3, and was $4.26 in 2009, compared with Detroit bus routes that operate at $0.82 (the New York City Subway operates at $0.30 per passenger mile). The Mackinac Center for Public Policy also charges that the system does not benefit locals, pointing out that fewer than 30% of the riders are Detroit residents and that Saturday ridership (likely out-of-towners) dwarfs that of weekday usage. The system was designed to move up to 15 million riders a year. In 2008 it served approximately 2 million riders. This meant the system averaged about 7,500 people per day, about 2.5 percent of its daily peak capacity of 288,000. In 2006, the Mover filled less than 10 percent of its seats.\n\n, passengers pay $0.75 per trip, with discounts for seniors and multiple rides. The fare was originally 50 cents until it was raised to the current rate in November 2011. \n\nAmong the busiest periods was the five days around the 2006 Super Bowl XL, when 215,910 patrons used the service. In addition to major downtown concerts and sporting events, other high ridership times include the week of the annual North American International Auto Show in January and the Youmacon anime convention at the end of October, ever since the convention expanded in 2012 to utilize Cobo Center in addition to the Renaissance Center. The system had 92,384 riders during the 2014 extended con weekend.\n\nAs the downtown area has changed, this has impacted service and access to certain stations although the overall route and placement of the stations remains the same. When the J. L. Hudson Department Store building was imploded in October 1998, the nearby part of the track was damaged and forced the system to shut down. Before the track was completely repaired about a year later, limited service went into effect. In 2000, the David Whitney Building closed, cutting off access to the Grand Circus Park Station. The station later reopened without handicapped access as that was inside the David Whitney Building, which eventually reopened in late 2014. During construction of Compuware World Headquarters and parking garage, the Cadillac Center stop was closed as part of the parking structure was built around it. The station remained largely untouched and unmodified although the entrance was slightly expanded to allow a direct walkway to the nearby parking garage staircase and elevator tower.\n\nIn 2002, the concrete berms in front of the Renaissance Center were removed to make it more inviting to the rest of downtown. This also required the demolition of the station and tile artwork by George Woodman. Limited service continued but once again, ridership dropped significantly (see graph below) until the station and section of track were rebuilt to restore full circular operations in 2004. To replace the old artwork, Woodman designed a new tile art piece called Path Games.\n\nAs part of the restoration of the David Whitney Building, the Grand Circus Park station was closed on August 16, 2014 to complete a facelift which was originally planned to open in January 2015. The improved station will now feature ADA accessibility independently of the David Whitney Building. The project is overseen by Dumas Concepts in Building. The Grand Circus Park station officially reopened on June 13, 2015. Because of the closure, the 2014 ridership level of that station dropped to 72,774 (12 out of the 13 stations). For comparison, the 2013 ridership level at Grand Circus was 136,255.\n\nThere have been proposals to extend the People Mover northward to the New Center and neighborhoods not within walking distance of the city's downtown. A proposal was put forward by Marsden Burger, former manager of the People Mover, to double the length of the route by extending the People Mover along Woodward Avenue to West Grand Boulevard and into the New Center area. New stops would have included the Amtrak station, Wayne State University and the cultural center, the Detroit Medical Center, and the Henry Ford Hospital. The plan was proposed at a tentative cost of $150–200 million, and would have been paid for by a combination of public and private financing. It was ultimately decided that the system would instead be connected to New Center by a streetcar line following much of the proposed route.\n\nThe People Mover is owned and operated by the Detroit Transportation Corporation, an agency of the Detroit city government.\n\nThe People Mover system's operations center is located at the Times Square Station. Housed in the same complex is the system's maintenance facility and storage of the cars in an indoor facility. Cars enter south turnout to enter the maintenance facility and exit from the north turn out back onto the main track. Maintenance equipment (work cars, etc...) are lifted up to track level by crane, but not stored with the DPM cars.\n\nWork cars are not maintained or owned by DPM, but by contractors:\n\n\nThe DPM stops at 13 stations, eight of which were built into existing buildings. As the system is single tracked, the stations only have a single platform setup. Originally, the 13 stations were planned not to have any distinctive features. However, in 1984 after construction had recently begun, Irene Walt assembled a volunteer committee to persuade the project agency to include artwork in each station. Called the Downtown Detroit People Mover Art Commission (later known as Art in the Stations), they raised $2 million to finance the project. As a result, there are 18 new original pieces of art spread throughout the stations, plus a piece from 1903 that had previously been in storage, on permanent loan from the Detroit Institute of Arts. The commissions efforts and art installation were documented in a 30-minute film by Sue Marx and Pamela Conn, who had recently won an Academy Award for the short documentary Young at Heart. Art in the Stations premiered at the Detroit Institute of Arts in 1989. In 2004, the book Art in the Stations was published, with photographs by Balthazar Korab, containing information on all the station artwork and the artists who created them.\n\nEach station displays artwork created by various artists. Art was completed with the system opening in 1987 unless otherwise noted:\n\n\nThe system operates in two-car pairs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10273600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10273600", "title": "Downtown Grand Forks", "text": "Downtown Grand Forks\n\nDowntown Grand Forks is the original commercial center of Grand Forks, North Dakota. Located on the western bank of the Red River of the North, the downtown neighborhood is situated near the fork of the Red River and the Red Lake River. While downtown is no longer the dominant commercial area of the Greater Grand Forks community, it remains the historic center of Grand Forks. An portion was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2005, as Downtown Grand Forks Historic District. Today, downtown Grand Forks is home to many offices, stores, restaurants, and bars.\n\nGrand Forks was first settled in 1870. In 1872, seven pioneers staked claims to land on the Red River. The piece of land that would become downtown Grand Forks was first platted by Grand Forks' \"founding father\", Alexander Griggs, and his wife Etta, in 1875. This was done in anticipation of the Saint Paul and Pacific Railroad (later the St. Paul, Minneapolis and Manitoba Railway and eventually the Great Northern Railway). A collection of wood-frame buildings quickly sprouted up and, by 1880, the new city was home to 1,705 residents. The city was incorporated on February 22, 1881.\n\nThe coming of the Saint Paul, Minneapolis, and Manitoba Railway in 1880 led to dramatic growth. New multiple-story brick buildings replaced the old wood structures. The Hotel Dacotah, the St. John's Block, and the Security Building - all five stories - were witness to the fact that the city was prospering and that downtown Grand Forks was becoming one of the busiest commercial districts in the region. By the dawn of the 20th century, downtown Grand Forks had become the commercial, transportation, health care, entertainment, and cultural center of the region and boasted many amenities.\n\nThroughout the early and mid parts of the 20th Century, downtown Grand Forks was easily the dominant commercial neighborhood in Grand Forks. In the later part of the century, the coming of the Interstate Highway System, urban renewal, and new commercial developments on the outskirts of the city signaled the start of a period of decline for downtown. Major shopping malls (South Forks Plaza in 1964 and Columbia Mall in 1978) relocated much of the commercial activity which had once been centered downtown. Over time, institutions which had once been a major part of downtown - the city's hospitals, post office, and public library - were replaced with new facilities outside of downtown.\n\nA major downtown urban renewal project during the 1960s and 1970s saw the destruction of whole downtown blocks in favor of new office building, a city auditorium, and a new street overpass spanning the Grand Forks rail yards. Built in large part as a response to the new shopping malls in Grand Forks, the City Center Mall saw the blocking off of one whole block of South Third Street to vehicular traffic. A roof was built over the street and the entire one-block section became an indoor shopping center. The City Center mall was, in large part, a failure. The 1980s and 1990s saw little development taking place downtown. Indeed, several major businesses such as Griffith's Department Store, Norby's Department Store, and Silverman's clothing store either moved elsewhere within the city or shuttered their doors forever.\n\nThe Red River Flood of 1997 devastated downtown Grand Forks. The entire district was inundated with several feet of water and a major fire destroyed eleven historic buildings. An iconic image of the flood was the flooded and charred shell of the old five-story Security Building on North Third Street.\n\nAfter the flood, a renewed effort was put into revitalizing downtown. A new Grand Forks Corporate Center was built in the center of downtown to replace office space which had been destroyed by the flood and fire. Remodeling of the old Empire Theater, which had been started before the flood, was completed and the building became known as the Empire Arts Center. The roof of the City Center Mall was removed and historic storefronts were once again visible. Other building projects following the flood included a new office building for the \"Grand Forks Herald\", a new office building for Grand Forks County, a new \"Town Square\" community plaza, and the remodeling of countless downtown properties including the Metropolitan Opera House and the former First National Bank (now Alerus Financial) building.\n\nThe Downtown Grand Forks Historic District is a historic district that was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2005. The area is also known as the Grand Forks Original Townsite and as the Central Business District.\n\nThe National Register nomination includes some significant dates:\n\nArchitects who designed buildings in the area include Buechner & Orth, Joseph Bell DeRemer, Cass Gilbert, Theodore B. Wells, and others.\n\nWhen listed, the district included 42 contributing buildings, four contributing structures, and 15 non-contributing buildings. The area was surveyed in a 1981 study of Downtown Grand Forks historical resources.\nIn recent years, a number of new stores and restaurants have opened up downtown:\n\nBrothers Firearms - Gun Shop\nHalf Brothers Brewery - Brew Pub\nNow or Never - Nutrition Place \nRhombus Guys Brewery - Brew Pub\nSky's - Restaurant and Lounge\nTea & Crepes - Crepe and Ice cream place\n\nThe city has recently been encouraging the construction of new apartments and condos in the downtown area. Several new and remodeled buildings offer upscale housing in stand-alone buildings or above businesses for varying prices.\n\nAlso, a farmer's market is held every Saturday (9AM to 2PM) from mid-June to mid-September in the Town Square on the corner of 3rd Street S. and DeMers Avenue.\n\nEach June, the downtown area and the neighboring Greater Grand Forks Greenway play host to the Grand Cities Art Fest.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "425280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425280", "title": "Downtown Los Angeles", "text": "Downtown Los Angeles\n\nDowntown Los Angeles (DTLA) is the central business district of Los Angeles, California, as well as a diverse residential neighborhood of some 58,000 people. A 2013 study found that the district is home to over 500,000 jobs. It is also part of Central Los Angeles.\n\nA heritage of the city's founding in 1781, Downtown Los Angeles today is composed of different areas ranging from a fashion district to Skid Row. It is the hub for the city's urban rail transit system and the Metrolink commuter rail system for Southern California.\n\nBanks, department stores, and movie palaces at one time drew residents and visitors into the area, but the district declined economically and suffered a downturn for decades until its recent renaissance starting in the early 2000s. Old buildings are being modified for new uses, and skyscrapers have been built.\n\nDowntown Los Angeles is known for its government buildings, parks, theaters, and other public places.\n\nThe earliest known settlements in the area of what is now Downtown Los Angeles was by the Tongva, a Native American people. Later European settlement arrived after Father Juan Crespí, a Spanish missionary charged with exploring sites for Catholic missions in California, noted in 1769 that the region had \"all the requisites for a large settlement.\" On September 4, 1781, the city was founded by a group of settlers who trekked north from present-day Mexico.\n\nLand speculation increased in the 1880s, which saw the population of the city explode from 11,000 in 1880 to nearly 100,000 by 1896. Infrastructure enhancements and the laying of a street grid eventually brought development south of the original settlement into what is today the Civic Center and Historic Core neighborhoods.\n\nBy 1920, the city's private and municipal rail lines were the most far-flung and most comprehensive in the world in mileage, even besting that of New York City. By this time, a steady influx of residents and aggressive land developers had transformed the city into a large metropolitan area, with DTLA at its center. Rail lines connected four counties with over of track.\n\nDuring the early part of the 20th century, banking institutions clustered around South Spring Street, forming the Spring Street Financial District. Sometimes referred to as the \"Wall Street of the West,\" the district held corporate headquarters for financial institutions including Bank of America, Farmers and Merchants Bank, the Crocker National Bank, California Bank & Trust, and International Savings & Exchange Bank. The Los Angeles Stock Exchange was also located on the corridor from 1929 until 1986 before moving into a new building across the Harbor (110) Freeway.\n\nCommercial growth brought with it hotel construction—during this time period several grand hotels, the Alexandria (1906), the Rosslyn (1911), and the Biltmore (1923), were erected — and also the need for venues to entertain the growing population of Los Angeles. Broadway became the nightlife, shopping and entertainment district of the city, with over a dozen theater and movie palaces built before 1932.\n\nDepartment stores also opened flagship stores downtown, including The Broadway, Hamburger & Sons, May Company, JW Robinson's, and Bullock's, serving a wealthy residential population in the Bunker Hill neighborhood. Numerous specialty stores also flourished including those in the jewelry business which gave rise to the Downtown Jewelry District. Among these early jewelers included the Laykin Diamond Company (later becoming Laykin et Cie ) and Harry Winston & Co., both of which found their beginnings in the Hotel Alexandria at Fifth and Spring streets.\n\nThe Los Angeles Union Passenger Terminal (Union Station) opened in May 1939, unifying passenger service among various local, regional, and long-distance passenger trains. It was built on a grand scale and would be one of the \"last of the great railway stations\" built in the United States.\n\nFollowing World War II, suburbanization, the development of the Los Angeles freeway network, and increased automobile ownership led to decreased investment downtown. Many corporate headquarters slowly dispersed to new suburbs or fell to mergers and acquisitions. The once-wealthy Bunker Hill neighborhood became a haven for low-income renters, its stately Victorian mansions turned into flophouses.\n\nFrom about 1930 onward, numerous very old and historic buildings in the plaza area were demolished to make way for street-level parking lots, the high demand for parking making this more profitable than any other option that might have allowed preservation. The drastic reduction in the number of residents in the area further reduced the viability of streetfront businesses that would be able to attract pedestrians. For most Angelenos, downtown became a drive-in, drive-out destination.\n\nIn an effort to combat blight and lure businesses back downtown, the city's Community Redevelopment Agency undertook the Bunker Hill Redevelopment Project in 1955, a massive clearance project that leveled homes and cleared land for future commercial skyscraper development. This period saw the clearing and upzoning of the entire neighborhood, as well as the shuttering of the Angels Flight funicular railway in 1969. Angels Flight resumed operation in 1996 for a period of five years, shutting down once again after a fatal accident in 2001. On March 15, 2010, the railway once again opened for passenger service following extensive upgrades to brake and safety systems.\n\nWith Class A office space becoming available on Bunker Hill, many of DTLA's remaining financial corporations moved to the newer buildings, leaving the former Spring Street Financial District devoid of tenants above ground floor. Following the corporate headquarters' moving six blocks west, the large department stores on Broadway shuttered, culminating in the 1980s.\n\nHowever, the Broadway theaters saw much use as Spanish-language movie houses during this time, beginning with the conversion of the Million Dollar Theater in the 1950s to a Spanish-language theater.\n\nIn mid-2013, downtown was noted as \"a neighborhood with an increasingly hip and well-heeled residential population.\"\n\nBecause of the downtown area's office market's migration west to Bunker Hill and the Financial District, many historic office buildings have been left intact, simply used for storage or remaining empty during recent decades. In 1999, the Los Angeles City Council passed an adaptive reuse ordinance, making it easier for developers to convert outmoded, vacant office and commercial buildings into renovated lofts and luxury apartment and condo complexes.\n\nAs of early 2009, 14,561 residential units have been created under the adaptive reuse ordinance, leading to an increase in the residential population. With 28,878 residents in 2006 and 39,537 in 2008, a 36.9% increase, Downtown Los Angeles is seeing new life and investment.\n\n\nMultiple Olympic and Paralympic events will be held in DTLA during the 2028 Summer Olympics and Paralympics.\n\nDowntown Los Angeles is flanked by Echo Park to the north and northwest, Chinatown to the northeast, Boyle Heights to the east, Vernon to the south, Historic South Central and University Park to the southwest, and Pico-Union and Westlake to the west.\n\nDowntown is bounded on the northeast by Cesar Chavez Avenue, on the east by the Los Angeles River, on the south by the Los Angeles city line with Vernon, on the southwest by East Washington Boulevard and on the west by the 110 Freeway or Beaudry Avenue, including the entire Four Level Interchange with Highway 101.\n\nWithin the neighborhood are included these smaller areas:\n\nThe 2000 U.S. census found that just 27,849 residents lived in the 5.84 square miles of downtown—or 4,770 people per square mile, among the lowest densities for the city of Los Angeles but about average for the county. The Southern California Association of Governments estimates that downtown's daytime population is 207,440. The population increased to 34,811 by 2008, according to city estimates. As of 2014, the population of the district had grown to 52,400 residents, and 5200 residential units were under construction. The median age for residents was 39, considered old for the city and the county.\n\nDowntown Los Angeles is almost evenly balanced among the four major racial and ethnic groups — Asian Americans (23%), African Americans (22%), Latinos (25%) and non-Hispanic whites (26%) — according to an analysis of 2010 census data made by Loyola Marymount University researchers.\n\nA study of the 2000 census showed that downtown was the second–most diverse neighborhood in Los Angeles, its diversity index being 0.743, outrated only by Mid-Wilshire. The ethnic breakdown in 2000 was Latinos, 36.7%; blacks, 22.3%; Asians, 21.3%; whites, 16.2%, and others, 3.5%. Mexico (44.7%) and Korea (17%) were the most common places of birth for the 41.9% of the residents who were born abroad, about the same ratio as in the city as a whole.\n\nThe median household income in 2008 dollars was $15,003, considered low for both the city and the county. The percentage of households earning $20,000 or less (57.4%) was the highest in Los Angeles County, followed by University Park (56.6%) and Chinatown (53.6%). The average household size of 1.6 people was relatively low. Renters occupied 93.4% of the housing units, and home or apartment owners the rest.\n\nIn 2000, there were 2,400 military veterans living downtown, or 9.7% of the population, considered a high rate for the city but average for the county overall.\n\nIn 2013, a study by Downtown Center Business Improvement District showed that of the 52,400 people resided in Downtown Los Angeles. The demographic breakdown was 52.7% Caucasian, 20.1% Asian, 17.0% Latino, and 6.2% African-American; 52.9% female, 47.1% male; and 74.8% of residents were between the ages of 23-44.The median age for residents was 34. The median household income was $98,700. The median household size was 1.8. In terms of educational attainment, 80.1% of residents had completed at least 4 years of college. The study was a self-selecting sample of 8,841 respondents across the DTLA area. It was not a \"census\" but rather a comprehensive survey of Downtown LA consumers.\n\nAn additional study by the Downtown Center Business Improvement District showed that by 2017 the population has reached 67,324 \n\nDowntown Los Angeles is the center of the region's growing rail transit system, with six commuter lines operated by Metrolink, as well as five rapid-transit rail lines and local and regional bus service operated by Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (Metro).\n\nMajor Metro stations in the district include Los Angeles Union Station, Civic Center/Grand Park station, Pershing Square station, 7th Street/Metro Center station, Pico station, and Little Tokyo/Arts District station.\n\n\nAmtrak operates intercity passenger train service on five routes through Los Angeles Union Station: the Coast Starlight, Pacific Surfliner, Southwest Chief, Sunset Limited, and Texas Eagle.\n\nGreyhound Lines operates a major bus terminal in Downtown Los Angeles at the intersection of Seventh and Alameda streets.\n\nLos Angeles World Airports operates a direct shuttle every 30–60 minutes between Union Station and Los Angeles International Airport.\n\n\nDowntown Los Angeles is home to several public parks, plazas, gardens and other open space:\n\nSeveral future park proposals for the district make use of public-private partnerships between developers and the city of Los Angeles, including a public park at the proposed Nikkei Center development in Little Tokyo; a park at the Medallion development in the Historic Core; and a pocket park at the Wilshire Grand Hotel replacement project, currently under construction.\n\nAdditionally, the city recently completed a new park located on the 400 block of South Spring Street in the Historic Core neighborhood.\n\nDespite its relative decentralization and comparatively new high-rises (until 1958, the city did not permit any structures taller than the 27-story City Hall building ), Los Angeles has one of the largest skylines in the United States, and its development has continued in recent years.\n\nThe skyline has seen rapid growth due to improvements in seismic design standards, which has made certain building types highly earthquake-resistant. Many of the new skyscrapers contain a housing or hotel component.\n\nSome current and upcoming examples of skyscraper construction include:\n\nThe first height limit ordinance in Los Angeles was enacted following the completion of the 13-story Continental Building, located at the southeast corner of Fourth and Spring streets. The purpose of the height limit was to limit the density of the city. There was great hostility to skyscrapers in many cities in these years, mainly due to the congestion they could bring to the streets, and height limit ordinances were a common way of dealing with the problem. In 1911, the city passed an updated height limit ordinance, establishing a specific limit of . Exceptions were granted for decorative towers such as those later built on the Eastern Columbia Building and United Artists Theatre, as well as the now-demolished Richfield Tower.\n\nThe 1911 ordinance was repealed in 1957. The first private building to exceed the old limit was the 18-story United California Bank Building, located at the southeast corner of Sixth and Spring streets.\n\nThe pattern of buildings in Los Angeles to feature these \"flat roofs\" was the result of a 1974 fire ordinance which required all tall buildings in the city to include rooftop helipads in response to the devastating 1974 Joelma Fire in Sao Paulo, Brazil, in which helicopters were used to affect rescues from the flat rooftop of the building. The Wilshire Grand Center was the first building granted an exception by the Los Angeles City Fire Department in 2014. However, as the building was under construction, L.A. City Council removed the flat roof ordinance as of 2015.\n\nThe Los Angeles County Department of Health Services operates the Central Health Center in Downtown Los Angeles.\n\nThe Southern California Liaison of the California Department of Education has its office in the Ronald Reagan State Building in Downtown Los Angeles.\n\nThe Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, Los Angeles Branch is located in Downtown Los Angeles.\n\nDTLA is a node in the tech economy that extends beyond Silicon Beach. A venture capital firm counted 78 tech-oriented firms in DTLA in 2015. This included mobile apps, hardware, digital media and clean-tech companies plus co-working spaces, start-up incubators, and other related businesses.\n\nThe Arts District has become a popular spot for companies seeking out something different than typical modern offices. The central location is accessible from various parts of the Los Angeles Basin. The cultural life has also made the area attractive to young tech employees.\n\nAnschutz Entertainment Group has its corporate headquarters in Downtown Los Angeles.\n\nBYD Company, a Chinese technology firm, has its North American headquarters in Downtown Los Angeles.\n\nCathay Bank has its headquarters in the Los Angeles Chinatown.\n\nDowntown residents aged 25 and older holding a four-year degree amounted to 17.9% of the population in 2000, about average in the city and the county, but there was a high percentage of residents with less than a high school diploma.\n\nThese are the elementary or secondary schools within the neighborhood's boundaries:\n\nThe Fashion Institute of Design & Merchandising is at 800 S. Hope St., and the Colburn School for music and the performing arts is at 200 S. Grand Ave.\n\nDignity Health-California Hospital Medical Center is located in the South Park district of Downtown LA at 1401 S. Grand Ave. The 318-bed community hospital has been providing high-quality care to residents of the district and its neighboring communities for over 126 years. Dignity Health-California Hospital Medical Center is known for its wide range of medical services, from women's health and maternal child to orthopedics and cardiology. The hospital also operates the only Level II Trauma Center in Downtown Los Angeles, and its emergency room treats over 70,000 patients each year. The hospital's neighbors include Staples Center, L.A. Live, Fashion Institute of Design & Merchandising and the Fashion District.\n\nThe Los Angeles Fire Department operates the following fire stations in Downtown Los Angeles:\n\nThe Los Angeles Police Department operates the Central Area Community Police Station in Downtown Los Angeles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13534689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13534689", "title": "Eddie O'Connor (businessman)", "text": "Eddie O'Connor (businessman)\n\nEddie O'Connor is an Irish businessman who is co-founder and chief executive of Mainstream Renewable Power, a renewable energy group.\n\nO'Connor holds a Bachelor of Chemical Engineering (1970) and a Master's in Industrial Engineering (1976) both from University College Dublin and has a doctorate in Business Administration from the International Management Centres, Europe. After completing his bachelor's degree, he joined the Electricity Supply Board of Ireland, where he held several managerial positions, until he left in 1987 to become Chief Executive Officer at Bord na Móna.\n\nHe then became founder and Chief Executive of Airtricity, the Irish wind farm development company from 1997 until January 2008. When Airtricity was sold to E.ON and Scottish & Southern Energy in 2008 for approximately €2 billion, he left to set up Mainstream Renewable Power. He is reported to have earned €50 million from the transaction Mainstream Renewable Power's core business is to develop, build and operate renewable energy plants in collaboration with strategic partners. The company employs over 100 staff and has offices in Berlin, Cape Town, Chicago, Dublin, Glasgow, London, Santiago and Toronto. O'Connor is acknowledged as the driving force behind the European Offshore Supergrid. This vision and activity will, when built, guarantee European energy self-sufficiency as well as producing carbon free electricity.\n\nHe is an honorary Director of the European Wind Energy Association. In 2003, O'Connor was named World Energy Policy Leader by Scientific American magazine. In September 2009, he was presented with the first ever Leadership award at the annual Ernst & Young Global Renewable Energy Awards. In June 2008, he was awarded an honorary doctorate in Science from University College Dublin. In January 2014, he was awarded an honorary doctorate in Science from University of Hull. He is also a member of the Advisory Board of Imperial College London's Energy Futures Lab.\n\nO'Connor was one of several high profile investors announced by Plymouth Argyle F.C. in July 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "57621134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57621134", "title": "Elliott Sanger", "text": "Elliott Sanger\n\nElliot Sanger (March 2, 1897 – July 9, 1989) was the co-founder of WQXR-FM and an early advocate of FM broadcasting.\n\nElliott Maxwell Sanger was born to a Jewish family in Manhattan on March 2, 1897. He graduated from Townsend Harris High School and then the Columbia University School of Journalism. During World War I, he served as an ensign tasked with selling war bonds before accepting a job as a copywriter at an advertising agency and then as the director of advertising and sales at hosiery manufacturer J.R. Beaton Company. In 1936, Sanger co-founded a small 250 watt radio station WQXR-FM (originally the Interstate Broadcasting Company) above a garage in Long Island City with John Vincent Lawless Hogan whom he shared a love for classical music with the belief that high quality, high fidelity, live music would eventually attract advertisers. As an early advocate of the clarity and high fidelity of FM broadcasting, WQXR became the first FM station in New York City and the first nationally to present a regularly scheduled FM program. In order to maintain its semblance of decorum, the station prohibited \"singing jingles and raucous sound effects.\" In 1944, WQXR The New York Times bought the station. Sanger served as executive vice president and general manager of WQXR from its founding until 1965 and chairman until 1967 when he retired.\n\nSanger documented his story in the 1973 book, \"Rebel in Radio: The Story of WQXR,\" published by Hastings House.\n\nSanger was married to Eleanor Naumburg, grandniece of Elkan Naumburg; they had two sons, Elliott Sanger Jr. and Kenneth E. Sanger. His grandson is journalist David E. Sanger. Sanger collected rare books on New York City history which he donated to Columbia University. He served as a former president of Elder Craftsmen dedicated to helping people sell their crafts; served as director of Manhattan's Grand Jury Association; and was an interviewer in oral histories for the American Jewish Committee. In 1952, he received a Distinguished Alumnus Award from his alma mater Columbia University.\n"}
{"id": "45314746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45314746", "title": "Elysium Health", "text": "Elysium Health\n\nElysium Health is a company founded in 2014 by biologist Leonard Guarente, Dan Alminana, and Eric Marcotulli to market dietary supplements. The next year, the company started selling a dietary supplement called Basis that packages two supplements, nicotinamide riboside (NR), a form of B vitamin found in yeast, and pterostilbene, a polyphenol found in blueberries, into one capsule. The company says that these two ingredients help cells make nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD) and that they stimulate sirtuins. The company is widely described as being in the anti-aging field and similar to Sirtris Pharmaceuticals which was developing resveratrol.\n\nElysium has tried to differentiate the product within the dietary supplement industry as being more scientific and exclusive, by means of the product's minimalist packaging, by not selling the product in drug stores but rather only through its website, and by getting several Nobel prize winners to join its scientific advisory board. The company has been criticized for using this advisory board to lend credibility to its product. Like other companies in the supplement industry, Elysium marketed the product heavily on social media.\n\nElysium originally bought the ingredients in Basis from ChromaDex, which as of December 2016, sold the two ingredients to other supplement companies that also marketed products containing them. The two companies had an agreement under which Elysium Health didn't have to acknowledge ChromaDex as the source of the ingredients, but then after Elysium recruited the head of business development from Chromadex and allegedly stopped paying Chromadex, Chromadex sued Elysium and the information became public. In September 2018, Dartmouth College and ChromaDex sued Elysium for infringement of two issued patents exclusively licensed by ChromaDex on use of NR to increase NAD that were invented by Charles Brenner.\n\nElysium is one of several companies founded at around the same time by people with backgrounds in the tech industry and Silicon Valley who saw opportunities in the health and biomedical industries, often focused on anti-aging.\n\nAs of December 2016, Elysium had raised $26.2 million from investors including General Catalyst, Robert Nelson from ARCH Venture Partners, and Morningside Ventures.\n\n"}
{"id": "18950003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18950003", "title": "Entrepreneurship", "text": "Entrepreneurship\n\nEntrepreneurship is the process of designing, launching and running a new business, which is often initially a small business. The people who create these businesses are called entrepreneurs.\n\nEntrepreneurship has been described as the \"capacity and willingness to develop, organize and manage a business venture along with any of its risks in order to make a profit\". While definitions of entrepreneurship typically focus on the launching and running of businesses, due to the high risks involved in launching a start-up, a significant proportion of start-up businesses have to close due to \"lack of funding, bad business decisions, an economic crisis, lack of market demand—or a combination of all of these.\n\nA broader definition of the term is sometimes used, especially in the field of economics. In this usage, an Entrepreneur is an entity which has the ability to find and act upon opportunities to translate inventions or technology into new products: \"The entrepreneur is able to recognize the commercial potential of the invention and organize the capital, talent, and other resources that turn an invention into a commercially viable innovation.\" In this sense, the term \"Entrepreneurship\" also captures innovative activities on the part of established firms, in addition to similar activities on the part of new businesses.\n\nEntrepreneurship is the act of being an entrepreneur, or \"the owner or manager of a business enterprise who, by risk and initiative, attempts to make profits\". Entrepreneurs act as managers and oversee the launch and growth of an enterprise. Entrepreneurship is the process by which either an individual or a team identifies a business opportunity and acquires and deploys the necessary resources required for its exploitation. Early-19th-century French economist Jean-Baptiste Say provided a broad definition of entrepreneurship, saying that it \"shifts economic resources out of an area of lower and into an area of higher productivity and greater yield\". Entrepreneurs create something new, something different—they change or transmute values. Regardless of the firm size, big or small, they can partake in entrepreneurship opportunities. The opportunity to become an entrepreneur requires four criteria. First, there must be opportunities or situations to recombine resources to generate profit. Second, entrepreneurship requires differences between people, such as preferential access to certain individuals or the ability to recognize information about opportunities. Third, taking on risk is a necessary. Fourth, the entrepreneurial process requires the organization of people and resources.\n\nThe entrepreneur is a factor in and the study of entrepreneurship reaches back to the work of Richard Cantillon and Adam Smith in the late 17th and early 18th centuries. However, entrepreneurship was largely ignored theoretically until the late 19th and early 20th centuries and empirically until a profound resurgence in business and economics since the late 1970s. In the 20th century, the understanding of entrepreneurship owes much to the work of economist Joseph Schumpeter in the 1930s and other Austrian economists such as Carl Menger, Ludwig von Mises and Friedrich von Hayek. According to Schumpeter, an entrepreneur is a person who is willing and able to convert a new idea or invention into a successful innovation. Entrepreneurship employs what Schumpeter called \"the gale of creative destruction\" to replace in whole or in part inferior innovations across markets and industries, simultaneously creating new products including new business models. In this way, creative destruction is largely responsible for the dynamism of industries and long-run economic growth. The supposition that entrepreneurship leads to economic growth is an interpretation of the residual in endogenous growth theory and as such is hotly debated in academic economics. An alternative description posited by Israel Kirzner suggests that the majority of innovations may be much more incremental improvements such as the replacement of paper with plastic in the making of drinking straws.\n\nThe exploitation of entrepreneurial opportunities may include:\n\nEconomist Joseph Schumpeter (1883–1950) saw the role of the entrepreneur in the economy as \"creative destruction\" – launching innovations that simultaneously destroy old industries while ushering in new industries and approaches. For Schumpeter, the changes and \"dynamic disequilibrium brought on by the innovating entrepreneur [were] the norm of a healthy economy\". While entrepreneurship is often associated with new, small, for-profit start-ups, entrepreneurial behavior can be seen in small-, medium- and large-sized firms, new and established firms and in for-profit and not-for-profit organizations, including voluntary-sector groups, charitable organizations and government.\n\nEntrepreneurship may operate within an entrepreneurship ecosystem which often includes:\n\nIn the 2000s, usage of the term \"entrepreneurship\" expanded to include how and why some individuals (or teams) identify opportunities, evaluate them as viable, and then decide to exploit them. The term has also been used to discuss how people might use these opportunities to develop new products or services, launch new firms or industries, and create wealth. The entrepreneurial process is uncertain because opportunities can only be identified after they have been exploited.\n\nEntrepreneurs tend exhibit positive biases towards finding new possibilities and seeing unmet market needs, and a tendency towards risk-taking that makes them more likely to exploit business opportunities.\n\n\"Entrepreneur\" (, ) is a loanword from French. The word first appeared in the French dictionary entitled \"Dictionnaire Universel de Commerce\" compiled by Jacques des Bruslons and published in 1723. Especially in Britain, the term \"adventurer\" was often used to denote the same meaning. The study of entrepreneurship reaches back to the work in the late 17th and early 18th centuries of Irish-French economist Richard Cantillon, which was foundational to classical economics. Cantillon defined the term first in his \"Essai sur la Nature du Commerce en Général\", or \"Essay on the Nature of Trade in General\", a book William Stanley Jevons considered the \"cradle of political economy\". Cantillon defined the term as a person who pays a certain price for a product and resells it at an uncertain price, \"making decisions about obtaining and using the resources while consequently admitting the risk of enterprise\". Cantillon considered the entrepreneur to be a risk taker who deliberately allocates resources to exploit opportunities in order to maximize the financial return. Cantillon emphasized the willingness of the entrepreneur to assume the risk and to deal with uncertainty, thus he drew attention to the function of the entrepreneur and distinguished between the function of the entrepreneur and the owner who provided the money.\n\nJean-Baptiste Say also identified entrepreneurs as a driver for economic development, emphasizing their role as one of the collecting factors of production allocating resources from less to fields that are more productive. Both Say and Cantillon belonged to French school of thought and known as the physiocrats.\n\nDating back to the time of the medieval guilds in Germany, a craftsperson required special permission to operate as an entrepreneur, the small proof of competence (\"Kleiner Befähigungsnachweis\"), which restricted training of apprentices to craftspeople who held a Meister certificate. This institution was introduced in 1908 after a period of so-called freedom of trade (\"Gewerbefreiheit\", introduced in 1871) in the German Reich. However, proof of competence was not required to start a business. In 1935 and in 1953, greater proof of competence was reintroduced (\"Großer Befähigungsnachweis Kuhlenbeck\"), which required craftspeople to obtain a Meister apprentice-training certificate before being permitted to set up a new business.\n\nIn the 20th century, entrepreneurship was studied by Joseph Schumpeter in the 1930s and other Austrian economists such as Carl Menger, Ludwig von Mises and Friedrich von Hayek. While the loan from French of the word \"entrepreneur\" dates to the 1850, the term \"entrepreneurship\" was coined around the 1920s. According to Schumpeter, an entrepreneur is willing and able to convert a new idea or invention into a successful innovation. Entrepreneurship employs what Schumpeter called \"the gale of creative destruction\" to replace in whole or in part inferior offerings across markets and industries, simultaneously creating new products and new business models, thus creative destruction is largely responsible for long-term economic growth. The idea that entrepreneurship leads to economic growth is an interpretation of the residual in endogenous growth theory and as such continues to be debated in academic economics. An alternative description by Israel Kirzner suggests that the majority of innovations may be incremental improvements such as the replacement of paper with plastic in the construction of a drinking straw that require no special qualities.\n\nFor Schumpeter, entrepreneurship resulted in new industries and in new combinations of currently existing inputs. Schumpeter's initial example of this was the combination of a steam engine and then current wagon making technologies to produce the horseless carriage. In this case, the innovation (i.e. the car) was transformational, but did not require the development of dramatic new technology. It did not immediately replace the horse-drawn carriage, but in time incremental improvements reduced the cost and improved the technology, leading to the modern auto industry. Despite Schumpeter's early 20th-century contributions, the traditional microeconomic theory did not formally consider the entrepreneur in its theoretical frameworks (instead of assuming that resources would find each other through a price system). In this treatment, the entrepreneur was an implied but unspecified actor, consistent with the concept of the entrepreneur being the agent of x-efficiency.\n\nFor Schumpeter, the entrepreneur did not bear risk: the capitalist did. Schumpeter believed that the equilibrium was imperfect. Schumpeter (1934) demonstrated that the changing environment continuously provides new information about the optimum allocation of resources to enhance profitability. Some individuals acquire the new information before others and recombine the resources to gain an entrepreneurial profit. Schumpeter was of the opinion that entrepreneurs shift the production possibility curve to a higher level using innovations.\n\nInitially, economists made the first attempt to study the entrepreneurship concept in depth. Alfred Marshall viewed the entrepreneur as a multi-tasking capitalist and observed that in the equilibrium of a completely competitive market there was no spot for \"entrepreneurs\" as an economic activity creator.\n\nIn the 2000s, entrepreneurship has been extended from its origins in for-profit businesses to include social entrepreneurship, in which business goals are sought alongside social, environmental or humanitarian goals and even the concept of the political entrepreneur. Entrepreneurship within an existing firm or large organization has been referred to as intrapreneurship and may include corporate ventures where large entities \"spin-off\" subsidiary organizations.\n\nEntrepreneurs are leaders willing to take risk and exercise initiative, taking advantage of market opportunities by planning, organizing and deploying resources, often by innovating to create new or improving existing products or services. In the 2000s, the term \"entrepreneurship\" has been extended to include a specific mindset resulting in entrepreneurial initiatives, e.g. in the form of social entrepreneurship, political entrepreneurship or knowledge entrepreneurship.\n\nAccording to Paul Reynolds, founder of the Global Entrepreneurship Monitor, \"by the time they reach their retirement years, half of all working men in the United States probably have a period of self-employment of one or more years; one in four may have engaged in self-employment for six or more years. Participating in a new business creation is a common activity among U.S. workers over the course of their careers\". In recent years, entrepreneurship has been claimed as a major driver of economic growth in both the United States and Western Europe.\n\nEntrepreneurial activities differ substantially depending on the type of organization and creativity involved. Entrepreneurship ranges in scale from solo, part-time projects to large-scale undertakings that involve a team and which may create many jobs. Many \"high value\" entrepreneurial ventures seek venture capital or angel funding (seed money) in order to raise capital for building and expanding the business. Many organizations exist to support would-be entrepreneurs, including specialized government agencies, business incubators (which may be for-profit, non-profit, or operated by a college or university), science parks and non-governmental organizations, which include a range of organizations including not-for-profits, charities, foundations and business advocacy groups (e.g. Chambers of commerce). Beginning in 2008, an annual \"Global Entrepreneurship Week\" event aimed at \"exposing people to the benefits of entrepreneurship\" and getting them to \"participate in entrepreneurial-related activities\" was launched.\n\nThe term \"entrepreneur\" is often conflated with the term \"small business\" or used interchangeably with this term. While most entrepreneurial ventures start out as a small business, not all small businesses are entrepreneurial in the strict sense of the term. Many small businesses are sole proprietor operations consisting solely of the owner—or they have a small number of employees—and many of these small businesses offer an existing product, process or service and they do not aim at growth. In contrast, entrepreneurial ventures offer an innovative product, process or service and the entrepreneur typically aims to scale up the company by adding employees, seeking international sales and so on, a process which is financed by venture capital and angel investments. In this way, the term \"entrepreneur\" may be more closely associated with the term \"startup\". Successful entrepreneurs have the ability to lead a business in a positive direction by proper planning, to adapt to changing environments and understand their own strengths and weakness.\n\nThe term \"ethnic entrepreneurship\" refers to self-employed business owners who belong to racial or ethnic minority groups in the United States and Europe. A long tradition of academic research explores the experiences and strategies of ethnic entrepreneurs as they strive to integrate economically into mainstream U.S. or European society. Classic cases include Jewish merchants and tradespeople in large U.S. cities in the 19th and early 20th centuries as well as Chinese and Japanese small business owners (restaurants, farmers, shop owners) on the West Coast. In the 2010s, ethnic entrepreneurship has been studied in the case of Cuban business owners in Miami, Indian motel owners of the U.S. and Chinese business owners in Chinatowns across the United States. While entrepreneurship offers these groups many opportunities for economic advancement, self-employment and business ownership in the United States remain unevenly distributed along racial/ethnic lines. Despite numerous success stories of Asian entrepreneurs, a recent statistical analysis of U.S. census data shows that whites are more likely than Asians, African-Americans and Latinos to be self-employed in high prestige, lucrative industries.\n\nThe American-born British economist Edith Penrose has highlighted the collective nature of entrepreneurship. She mentions that in modern organizations, human resources need to be combined in order to better capture and create business opportunities. The sociologist Paul DiMaggio (1988:14) has expanded this view to say that \"new institutions arise when organized actors with sufficient resources [institutional entrepreneurs] see in them an opportunity to realize interests that they value highly\". The notion has been widely applied.\n\nAccording to Christopher Rea and Nicolai Volland, cultural entrepreneurship is \"practices of individual and collective agency characterized by mobility between cultural professions and modes of cultural production\", which refers to creative industry activities and sectors. In their book \"The Business of Culture\" (2015), Rea and Volland identify three types of cultural entrepreneur: \"cultural personalities\", defined as \"individuals who buil[d] their own personal brand of creativity as a cultural authority and leverage it to create and sustain various cultural enterprises\"; \"tycoons\", defined as \"entrepreneurs who buil[d] substantial clout in the cultural sphere by forging synergies between their industrial, cultural, political, and philanthropic interests\"; and \"collective enterprises\", organizations which may engage in cultural production for profit or not-for-profit purposes.\n\nA feminist entrepreneur is an individual who applies feminist values and approaches through entrepreneurship, with the goal of improving the quality of life and well-being of girls and women. Many are doing so by creating \"for women, by women\" enterprises. Feminist entrepreneurs are motivated to enter commercial markets by desire to create wealth and social change, based on the ethics of cooperation, equality and mutual respect.\n\nSocial entrepreneurship is the use of the by start up companies and other entrepreneurs to develop, fund and implement solutions to social, cultural, or environmental issues. This concept may be applied to a variety of organizations with different sizes, aims, and beliefs. For-profit entrepreneurs typically measure performance using business metrics like profit, revenues and increases in stock prices, but social entrepreneurs are either non-profits or blend for-profit goals with generating a positive \"return to society\" and therefore must use different metrics. Social entrepreneurship typically attempts to further broad social, cultural, and environmental goals often associated with the voluntary sector in areas such as poverty alleviation, health care and community development. At times, profit-making social enterprises may be established to support the social or cultural goals of the organization but not as an end in itself. For example, an organization that aims to provide housing and employment to the homeless may operate a restaurant, both to raise money and to provide employment for the homeless people.\n\nA nascent entrepreneur is someone in the process of establishing a business venture. In this observation, the nascent entrepreneur can be seen as pursuing an opportunity, i.e. a possibility to introduce new services or products, serve new markets, or develop more efficient production methods in a profitable manner. But before such a venture is actually established, the opportunity is just a venture idea. In other words, the pursued opportunity is perceptual in nature, propped by the nascent entrepreneur's personal beliefs about the feasibility of the venturing outcomes the nascent entrepreneur seeks to achieve. Its prescience and value cannot be confirmed ex ante but only gradually, in the context of the actions that the nascent entrepreneur undertakes towards establishing the venture, Ultimately, these actions can lead to a path that the nascent entrepreneur deems no longer attractive or feasible, or result in the emergence of a (viable) business. In this sense, over time, the nascent venture can move towards being discontinued or towards emerging successfully as an operating entity.\n\nThe distinction between the novice, serial and portfolio entrepreneurs is an example of behavior-based categorization. Other examples are the (related) studies by, on start-up event sequences. Nascent entrepreneurship that emphasizes the series of activities involved in new venture emergence, rather than the solitary act of exploiting an opportunity. Such research will help separate entrepreneurial action into its basic sub-activities and elucidate the inter- relationships between activities, between an activity (or sequence of activities) and an individual's motivation to form an opportunity belief, and between an activity (or sequence of activities) and the knowledge needed to form an opportunity belief. With this research, scholars will be able to begin constructing a theory of the micro-foundations of entrepreneurial action.\n\nScholars interested in nascent entrepreneurship tend to focus less on the single act of opportunity exploitation and more on the series of actions in new venture emergence. Indeed, nascent entrepreneurs undertake numerous entrepreneurial activities, including actions that make their businesses more concrete to themselves and others. For instance, nascent entrepreneurs often look for and purchase facilities and equipment; seek and obtain financial backing, form legal entities, organize teams; and dedicate all their time and energy to their business\n\nProject entrepreneurs are individuals who are engaged in the repeated assembly or creation of temporary organizations. These are organizations that have limited lifespans which are devoted to producing a singular objective or goal and get disbanded rapidly when the project ends. Industries where project-based enterprises are widespread include: sound recording, film production, software development, television production, new media and construction. What makes project-entrepreneurs distinctive from a theoretical standpoint is that they have to \"rewire\" these temporary ventures and modify them to suit the needs of new project opportunities that emerge. A project entrepreneur who used a certain approach and team for one project may have to modify the business model or team for a subsequent project.\n\nProject entrepreneurs are exposed repeatedly to problems and tasks typical of the entrepreneurial process. Indeed, project-entrepreneurs face two critical challenges that invariably characterize the creation of a new venture: locating the right opportunity to launch the project venture and assembling the most appropriate team to exploit that opportunity. Resolving the first challenge requires project-entrepreneurs to access an extensive range of information needed to seize new investment opportunities. Resolving the second challenge requires assembling a collaborative team that has to fit well with the particular challenges of the project and has to function almost immediately to reduce the risk that performance might be adversely affected. Another type of project entrepreneurship involves entrepreneurs working with business students to get analytical work done on their ideas.\n\nThe term \"millennial entrepreneur\" refers to a business owner who is affiliated with the generation that was brought up using digital technology and mass media—the products of Baby Boomers, those people born during the 1980s and early 1990s. Also known as Generation Y, these business owners are well equipped with knowledge of new technology and new business models and have a strong grasp of its business applications. There have been many breakthrough businesses that have come from millennial entrepreneurs such as Mark Zuckerberg, who created Facebook. Despite the expectation of millennial success, there have been recent studies that have proven this to not be the case. The comparison between millennials who are self-employed and those who are not self-employed shows that the latter is higher. The reason for this is because they have grown up in a different generation and attitude than their elders. Some of the barriers to entry for entrepreneurs are the economy, debt from schooling and the challenges of regulatory compliance.\n\nThe entrepreneur is commonly seen as an innovator—a designer of new ideas and business processes. Management skills and strong team building abilities are often perceived as essential leadership attributes for successful entrepreneurs. Political economist Robert Reich considers leadership, management ability and team-building to be essential qualities of an entrepreneur.\n\nTheorists Frank Knight and Peter Drucker defined entrepreneurship in terms of risk-taking. The entrepreneur is willing to put his or her career and financial security on the line and take risks in the name of an idea, spending time as well as capital on an uncertain venture. However, entrepreneurs often do not believe that they have taken an enormous amount of risks because they do not perceive the level of uncertainty to be as high as other people do. Knight classified three types of uncertainty:\nEntrepreneurship is often associated with true uncertainty, particularly when it involves the creation of a novel good or service, for a market that did not previously exist, rather than when a venture creates an incremental improvement to an existing product or service. A 2014 study at ETH Zürich found that compared with typical managers, entrepreneurs showed higher decision-making efficiency and a stronger activation in regions of frontopolar cortex (FPC) previously associated with explorative choice.\n\nThe ability of entrepreneurs to work closely with and take advice from early investors and other partners (i.e. their coachability) has long been considered a critical factor in entrepreneurial success. At the same time, economists have argued that entrepreneurs should not simply act on all advice given to them, even when that advice comes from well-informed sources, because entrepreneurs possess far deeper and richer local knowledge about their own firm than any outsider. Indeed, measures of coachability are not actually predictive of entrepreneurial success (e.g. measured as success in subsequent funding rounds, acquisitions, pivots and firm survival). This research also shows that older and larger founding teams, presumably those with more subject expertise, are less coachable than younger and smaller founding teams.\n\nStrategies that entrepreneurs may use include:\n\nAccording to Shane and Venkataraman, entrepreneurship comprises both \"enterprising individuals\" and \"entrepreneurial opportunities\", so researchers should study the nature of the individuals who identify opportunities when others do not, the opportunities themselves and the nexus between individuals and opportunities. On the other hand, Reynolds et al. argue that individuals are motivated to engage in entrepreneurial endeavors driven mainly by necessity or opportunity, that is individuals pursue entrepreneurship primarily owing to survival needs, or because they identify business opportunities that satisfy their need for achievement. For example, higher economic inequality tends to increase entrepreneurship rates at the individual level, suggesting that most entrepreneurial behavior is based on necessity rather than opportunity.\n\nThe ability of entrepreneurs to innovate relates to innate traits, including extroversion and a proclivity for risk-taking. According to Joseph Schumpeter, the capabilities of innovating, introducing new technologies, increasing efficiency and productivity, or generating new products or services, are characteristic qualities of entrepreneurs. One study has found that certain genes affecting personality may influence the income of self-employed people. Some people may be able to use \"an innate ability\" or quasi-statistical sense to gauge public opinion and market demand for new products or services. Entrepreneurs tend to have the ability to see unmet market needs and underserved markets. While some entrepreneurs assume they can sense and figure out what others are thinking, the mass media plays a crucial role in shaping views and demand. Ramoglou argues that entrepreneurs are not that distinctive and that it is essentially poor conceptualizations of \"non-entrepreneurs\" that maintain laudatory portraits of \"entrepreneurs\" as exceptional innovators or leaders Entrepreneurs are often overconfident, exhibit illusion of control, when they are opening/expanding business or new products/services.\n\nDifferences in entrepreneurial organizations often partially reflect their founders' heterogenous identities. Fauchart and Gruber have classified entrepreneurs into three main types: Darwinians, communitarians and missionaries. These types of entrepreneurs diverge in fundamental ways in their self-views, social motivations and patterns of new firm creation.\n\nEntrepreneurs need to practice effective communication both within their firm and with external partners and investors in order to launch and growth a venture and enable it to survive. An entrepreneur needs a communication system that links the staff of her firm and connects the firm to outside firms and clients. Entrepreneurs should be charismatic leaders, so they can communicate a vision effectively to their team and help to create a strong team. Communicating a vision to followers may be well the most important act of the transformational leader. Compelling visions provide employees with a sense of purpose and encourage commitment. According to Baum et al. and Kouzes and Posner, the vision must be communicated through written statements and through in-person communication. Entrepreneurial leaders must speak and listen to articulate their vision to others.\n\nCommunication is pivotal in the role of entrepreneurship because it enables leaders to convince potential investors, partners and employees about the feasibility of a venture. Entrepreneurs need to communicate effectively to shareholders. Nonverbal elements in speech such as the tone of voice, the look in the sender's eyes, body language, hand gestures and state of emotions are also important communication tools. The Communication Accommodation Theory posits that throughout communication people will attempt to accommodate or adjust their method of speaking to others. Face Negotiation Theory describes how people from different cultures manage conflict negotiation in order to maintain \"face\". Hugh Rank's \"intensify and downplay\" communications model can be used by entrepreneurs who are developing a new product or service. Rank argues that entrepreneurs need to be able to intensify the advantages of their new product or service and downplay the disadvantages in order to persuade others to support their venture.\n\nResearch from 2014 found links between entrepreneurship and historical sea piracy. In this context, the claim is made for a non-moral approach to looking at the history of piracy as a source of inspiration for entrepreneurship education as well as for research in entrepreneurship and business model generation.\n\nStanford University economist Edward Lazear found in a 2005 study that variety in education and work experience was the most important trait that distinguished entrepreneurs from non-entrepreneurs A 2013 study by Uschi Backes-Gellner of the University of Zurich and Petra Moog of the University of Siegen in Germany found that a diverse social network was also important in distinguishing students that would go on to become entrepreneurs.\n\nStudies show that the psychological propensities for male and female entrepreneurs are more similar than different. Empirical studies suggest that female entrepreneurs possess strong negotiating skills and consensus-forming abilities. Asa Hansson, who looked at empirical evidence from Sweden, found that the probability of becoming self-employed decreases with age for women, but increases with age for men. She also found that marriage increased the probability of a person becoming an entrepreneur.\n\nJesper Sørensen wrote that significant influences on the decision to become an entrepreneur are workplace peers and social composition. Sørensen discovered a correlation between working with former entrepreneurs and how often these individuals become entrepreneurs themselves, compared to those who did not work with entrepreneurs. Social composition can influence entrepreneurialism in peers by demonstrating the possibility for success, stimulating a \"He can do it, why can't I?\" attitude. As Sørensen stated: \"When you meet others who have gone out on their own, it doesn't seem that crazy\".\n\nEntrepreneurs may also be driven to entrepreneurship by past experiences. If they have faced multiple work stoppages or have been unemployed in the past, the probability of them becoming an entrepreneur increases Per Cattell's personality framework, both personality traits and attitudes are thoroughly investigated by psychologists. However, in case of entrepreneurship research these notions are employed by academics too, but vaguely. According to Cattell, personality is a system that is related to the environment and further adds that the system seeks explanation to the complex transactions conducted by both—traits and attitudes. This is because both of them bring about change and growth in a person. Personality is that which informs what an individual will do when faced with a given situation. A person's response is triggered by his/her personality and the situation that is faced.\n\nInnovative entrepreneurs may be more likely to experience what psychologist Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi calls \"flow\". \"Flow\" occurs when an individual forgets about the outside world due to being thoroughly engaged in a process or activity. Csikszentmihalyi suggested that breakthrough innovations tend to occur at the hands of individuals in that state. Other research has concluded that a strong internal motivation is a vital ingredient for breakthrough innovation. Flow can be compared to Maria Montessori's concept of normalization, a state that includes a child's capacity for joyful and lengthy periods of intense concentration. Csikszentmihalyi acknowledged that Montessori's prepared environment offers children opportunities to achieve flow. Thus quality and type of early education may influence entrepreneurial capability.\n\nResearch on high-risk settings such as oil platforms, investment banking, medical surgery, aircraft piloting and nuclear power plants has related distrust to failure avoidance. When non-routine strategies are needed, distrusting persons perform better while when routine strategies are needed trusting persons perform better. This research was extended to entrepreneurial firms by Gudmundsson and Lechner. They argued that in entrepreneurial firms the threat of failure is ever present resembling non-routine situations in high-risk settings. They found that the firms of distrusting entrepreneurs were more likely to survive than the firms of optimistic or overconfident entrepreneurs. The reasons were that distrusting entrepreneurs would emphasize failure avoidance through sensible task selection and more analysis. Kets de Vries has pointed out that distrusting entrepreneurs are more alert about their external environment. He concluded that distrusting entrepreneurs are less likely to discount negative events and are more likely to engage control mechanisms. Similarly, Gudmundsson and Lechner found that distrust leads to higher precaution and therefore increases chances of entrepreneurial firm survival.\n\nResearchers Schoon and Duckworth completed a study in 2012 that could potentially help identify who may become an entrepreneur at an early age. They determined that the best measures to identify a young entrepreneur are family and social status, parental role modeling, entrepreneurial competencies at age 10, academic attainment at age 10, generalized self-efficacy, social skills, entrepreneurial intention and experience of unemployment.\n\nSome scholars have constructed an operational definition of a more specific subcategory called \"Strategic Entrepreneurship\". Closely tied with principles of strategic management, this form of entrepreneurship is \"concerned about growth, creating value for customers and subsequently creating wealth for owners\". A 2011 article for the Academy of Management provided a three-step, \"Input-Process-Output\" model of strategic entrepreneurship. The model's three steps entail the collection of different resources, the process of orchestrating them in the necessary manner and the subsequent creation of competitive advantage, value for customers, wealth and other benefits. Through the proper use of strategic management/leadership techniques and the implementation of risk-bearing entrepreneurial thinking, the strategic entrepreneur is therefore able to align resources to create value and wealth.\n\nLeadership in entrepreneurship can be defined as \"process of social influence in which one person can enlist the aid and support of others in the accomplishment of a common task\" in \"one who undertakes innovations, finance and business acumen in an effort to transform innovations into economic goods\". This refers to not only the act of entrepreneurship as managing or starting a business, but how one manages to do so by these social processes, or leadership skills. Entrepreneurship in itself can be defined as \"the process by which individuals, teams, or organizations identify and pursue entrepreneurial opportunities without being immediately constrained by the resources they currently control\". An entrepreneur typically has a mindset that seeks out potential opportunities during uncertain times. An entrepreneur must have leadership skills or qualities to see potential opportunities and act upon them. At the core, an entrepreneur is a decision maker. Such decisions often affect an organization as a whole, which is representative of their leadership amongst the organization.\n\nWith the growing global market and increasing technology use throughout all industries, the core of entrepreneurship and the decision-making has become an ongoing process rather than isolated incidents. This becomes knowledge management which is \"identifying and harnessing intellectual assets\" for organizations to \"build on past experiences and create new mechanisms for exchanging and creating knowledge\". This belief draws upon a leader's past experiences that may prove useful. It is a common mantra for one to learn from their past mistakes, so leaders should take advantage of their failures for their benefit. This is how one may take their experiences as a leader for the use in the core of entrepreneurship-decision making.\n\nThe majority of scholarly research done on these topics have been from North America. Words like \"leadership\" and \"entrepreneurship\" do not always translate well into other cultures and languages. For example, in North America a leader is often thought to be charismatic, but German culture frowns on such charisma due to the charisma of Nazi leader Adolph Hitler. Other cultures, like some European countries, view the term \"leader\" negatively, like the French. The participative leadership style that is encouraged in the United States is considered disrespectful in many other parts of the world due to the differences in power distance. Many Asian and Middle Eastern countries do not have \"open door\" policies for subordinates and would never informally approach their managers/bosses. For countries like that, an authoritarian approach to management and leadership is more customary.\n\nDespite cultural differences, the successes and failures of entrepreneurs can be traced to how leaders adapt to local conditions. With the increasingly global business environment a successful leader must be able to adapt and have insight into other cultures. To respond to the environment, corporate visions are becoming transnational in nature, to enable the organization to operate in or provide services/goods for other cultures.\n\nMichelacci and Schivardi are a pair of researchers who believe that identifying and comparing the relationships between an entrepreneur's earnings and education level would determine the rate and level of success. Their study focused on two education levels, college degree and post-graduate degree. While Michelacci and Schivardi do not specifically determine characteristics or traits for successful entrepreneurs, they do believe that there is a direct relationship between education and success, noting that having a college knowledge does contribute to advancement in the workforce.\n\nMichelacci and Schivardi state there has been a rise in the number of self-employed people with a baccalaureate degree. However, their findings also show that those who are self-employed and possess a graduate degree has remained consistent throughout time at about 33 percent. They briefly mention those famous entrepreneurs like Steve Jobs and Mark Zuckerberg who were college dropouts, but they call these cases all but exceptional as it is a pattern that many entrepreneurs view formal education as costly, mainly because of the time that needs to be spent on it. Michelacci and Schivardi believe that in order for an individual to reach the full success they need to have education beyond high school. Their research shows that the higher the education level the greater the success. The reason is that college gives people additional skills that can be used within their business and to operate on a higher level than someone who only \"runs\" it.\n\nAn entrepreneurial resource is any company-owned asset that has economic value creating capabilities. Economic value creating both tangible and intangible sources are considered as entrepreneurial resources. Their economic value is generating activities or services through mobilization by entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurial resources can be divided into two fundamental categories: tangible and intangible resources.\n\nTangible resources are material sources such as equipment, building, furniture, land, vehicle, machinery, stock, cash, bond and inventory that has a physical form and can be quantified. On the contrary, intangible resources are nonphysical or more challenging to identify and evaluate, and they possess more value creating capacity such as human resources including skills and experience in a particular field, organizational structure of the company, brand name, reputation, entrepreneurial networks that contribute to promotion and financial support, know-how, intellectual property including both copyrights, trademarks and patents.\n\nAt least early on, entrepreneurs often \"bootstrap-finance\" their start-up rather than seeking external investors from the start. One of the reasons that some entrepreneurs prefer to \"bootstrap\" is that obtaining equity financing requires the entrepreneur to provide ownership shares to the investors. If the start-up becomes successful later on, these early equity financing deals could provide a windfall for the investors and a huge loss for the entrepreneur. If investors have a significant stake in the company, they may as well be able to exert influence on company strategy, chief executive officer (CEO) choice and other important decisions. This is often problematic since the investor and the founder might have different incentives regarding the long-term goal of the company. An investor will generally aim for a profitable exit and therefore promotes a high-valuation sale of the company or IPO in order to sell their shares. Whereas the entrepreneur might have philanthropic intentions as their main driving force. Soft values like this might not go well with the short-term pressure on yearly and quarterly profits that publicly traded companies often experience from their owners.\n\nOne consensus definition of bootstrapping sees it as \"a collection of methods used to minimize the amount of outside debt and equity financing needed from banks and investors\". The majority of businesses require less than $10,000 to launch, which means that personal savings are most often used to start. In addition, bootstrapping entrepreneurs often incur personal credit-card debt, but they also can utilize a wide variety of methods. While bootstrapping involves increased personal financial risk for entrepreneurs, the absence of any other stakeholder gives the entrepreneur more freedom to develop the company. Many successful companies, including Dell Computer and Facebook, started by bootstrapping.\n\nBootstrapping methods include:\n\nMany businesses need more capital than can be provided by the owners themselves. In this case, a range of options is available including a wide variety of private and public equity, debt and grants. Private equity options include:\nDebt options open to entrepreneurs include:\n\nGrant options open to entrepreneurs include:\n\nEntrepreneurs are faced with liquidity constraints and often lack the necessary credit needed to borrow large amounts of money to finance their venture. Because of this, many studies have been done on the effects of taxes on entrepreneurs. The studies fall into two camps: the first camp finds that taxes help and the second argues that taxes hurt entrepreneurship.\n\nCesaire Assah Meh found that corporate taxes create an incentive to become an entrepreneur to avoid double taxation. Donald Bruce and John Deskins found literature suggesting that a higher corporate tax rate may reduce a state's share of entrepreneurs. They also found that states with an inheritance or estate tax tend to have lower entrepreneurship rates when using a tax-based measure. However, another study found that states with a more progressive personal income tax have a higher percentage of sole proprietors in their workforce. Ultimately, many studies find that the effect of taxes on the probability of becoming an entrepreneur is small. Donald Bruce and Mohammed Mohsin found that it would take a 50 percentage point drop in the top tax rate to produce a one percent change in entrepreneurial activity.\n\nFactors that may predict entrepreneurial success include the following:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29044196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29044196", "title": "Epilepsy and employment", "text": "Epilepsy and employment\n\nEpilepsy can affect employment for a variety of reasons. Many employers are reluctant to hire a person they know has epilepsy, even if the seizures are controlled by medication. If the employee suffers a seizure while at work, they could harm themselves (but rarely others, contrary to popular belief) depending on the nature of the work. Employers are often unwilling to bear any financial costs that may come from employing a person with epilepsy, i.e. insurance costs, paid sick leave etc. Many people whose seizures are successfully controlled by a medication suffer from a variety of side effects, most notably drowsiness, which may affect job performance. Many laws prohibit or restrict people with epilepsy from performing certain duties, most notably driving or operating dangerous machinery, thereby lowering the pool of jobs available to people with epilepsy. Epilepsy sufferers are also prohibited from joining the armed forces, though they may work in certain civilian military positions.\n\nEmployment issues are responsible for 85% of the cost of epilepsy on society. In the United States, the median income for persons with epilepsy is 93% that of all persons. The unemployment rate for persons with epilepsy has been reported to be between 25% and 69%. The high school graduation rate has been reported at 64%, compared with an overall national average of 82%.\n\nThe following issues exist for people with epilepsy in their quest for and performance of employment:\n\nPeople with epilepsy may be barred from various types of employment, either by law, by company regulations, or by common sense, thereby lowering the pool of jobs available to the job seeker.\n\nThose barred from driving by the laws of the land in which they reside cannot perform any jobs that involve operating a motor vehicle. Even if the patients are permitted by law to drive their own vehicle, they may be barred by local and national laws from driving a vehicle for the purpose of certain types of employment, such as getting a Commercial Driver's License or driving a school bus or being the engineer of a train (even if a person who has not had a seizure in a certain time period is not permanently banned, they may still have to be able to stay seizure-free for a year or more even without medication).\n\nMost countries bar those who have ever had a seizure from flying an aircraft, except perhaps for a private craft, especially if the aircraft in question is a commercial or military aircraft or is any type of jet, making a career in aviation or in space extremely unlikely (again, some people who have been seizure-free without medication for a considerable time period, usually at least a year, are allowed to fly- even jets- in some cases, if they can remain seizure-free for at least a year without using anticonvulsant drugs).\n\nJobs involving the operation of dangerous machinery may pose a problem to people with epilepsy, including construction and industrial work.\n\nMany places have laws barring those with epilepsy whose seizures are not entirely controlled from working in positions that involve a high degree of responsibility to the well-being of others. This includes police officers, teachers, and health care workers.\n\nThere are many hazards that people with epilepsy, including those whose seizures are fully controlled by medication, face in the workplace. Those with active seizures face the obvious risk of loss of consciousness or muscle control, and those with side effects face diminished concentration or physical strength. Some of the hazards include:\n\nEven if a person with epilepsy is able to safely perform job duties him/herself, many are limited where they can work if they cannot provide their own transportation to the job site. Since some cannot drive themselves to work, they cannot travel to a place of employment.\n\nSome people with epilepsy who cannot drive may also be unable to safely walk, use public transportation, or otherwise independently travel safely due to their seizure risk, further preventing them from reaching a place of employment. Such persons may be at risk for suffering seizures while on or waiting for a public transport vehicle or while crossing the street.\n\nStigma alone can make it more difficult for people with epilepsy to find jobs. Even if one's seizures are fully controlled by medication, or if the condition has been completely cured by surgery, many employers are reluctant to hire a person with epilepsy.\n\nUnited States law does not require an applicant for a job to disclose one's condition to the employer. If an applicant voluntarily reveals one's condition, the employer is only allowed to ask whether the employee requires any special accommodations, and if so, what types.\n\nIf an employer learns of an epileptic condition \"after\" making a decision to hire an employee, the employer is not legally permitted to withdraw the decision to hire as a result of this information \"unless\" the employee's duties will pose a risk to public safety. If this is the case, the employer is permitted to require the employee to obtain information from a physician regarding this.\n\nFederal law in the United States requires that federal government agencies and employers receiving federal funding cannot discriminate in hiring against a prospective employee with epilepsy unless the duties one would be performing can be unsafe with a seizure disorder.\n\nEmployees who have epilepsy may require special accommodations from their employers. Although against the law, some employers may feel reluctant to provide these accommodations. Some special needs include:\n\n\n\nAccording to the law of the United States, an employer is permitted to inquire into an employee's epileptic condition if the employee suffers one or more seizures while on duty only if they affect safety or job performance.\n\nThe employer is permitted to require the employee to take a leave of absence or reassign the employee until the issues are resolved if the seizures pose a threat to the safety of others.\n\nDepending on the severity, epilepsy can be considered a disability which makes employment very difficult or even impossible for many sufferers for a variety of reasons. Those with seizures that cannot be controlled may find themselves unable to perform job duties of any type because their consciousness is constantly interrupted by the seizures. The aftermath of an often unpredictable seizure may leave a patient too fatigued to work for a period of time, or may temporarily impair the patient's memory. Seizures may pose a hazard to the employee or others in the event the employee loses consciousness while performing certain duties. Even if the seizures are completely controlled by a medication, side effects, such as drowsiness or fatigue, may make the performance of duties impossible or more difficult. \n\nIn the United States, while the Americans with Disabilities Act does not fully protect persons with epilepsy from discrimination in hiring practices, the Social Security Administration only considers people with epilepsy \"disabled\" and thereby eligible to receive benefits if the condition severely limits one or more major life activities. Employment may be hard to find or perform for many people with epilepsy, but not all are eligible for government-sponsored disability payments.\n\nTo qualify, documentation to the Social Security Administration of an EEG detailing a typical seizure is required, though a normal diagnosis does not rule out benefits. A seizure diary, including times and dates of seizures, and the effects the seizures have had is required. A person may qualify either if the seizures themselves have debilitating effects, or if the drugs used to treat the disorder have side effects that make employment impossible or difficult.\n\nMany countries restrict people with epilepsy from joining their armed forces.\n\nIn the United States, in order to enroll in military service in a combat role, one must be seizure-free since age 5 and off all medications.\n\nIn the United Kingdom people with epilepsy are automatically barred for life from joining the military.\n\n"}
{"id": "12913299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12913299", "title": "Esther D. du Pont", "text": "Esther D. du Pont\n\nEsther Driver du Pont, Lady Thouron (January 21, 1908 – March 24, 1984) was an American horse breeder and philanthropist who created the Thouron Award with her husband, Sir John R.H. Thouron KBE.\n\nBorn in Wilmington, Delaware, she was a member of the wealthy Du Pont family, one of eight children born to Lammot du Pont II and Natalie Driver Wilson.\n\nFrom 1928 to 1939, she was married to Campbell Weir. In 1953, she married for a second time to John Rupert Hunt Thouron, a native of Cookham in Berkshire, England. In 1960, they established the Thouron Scholars Program of student exchanges between the University of Pennsylvania and leading universities in the United Kingdom. In 1967, she received an Honorary Doctorate in Humane Letters from the University of Pennsylvania in recognition of her work.\n\nEsther du Pont and her husband owned a large estate near Unionville, Chester County, Pennsylvania they called \"Doe Run.\" Like other du Pont family members such as William duPont, Jr., Allaire du Pont, Marion duPont Scott, Jane du Pont Lunger, and Alice du Pont Mills, Esther du Pont too became a fan of thoroughbred horse racing. She bred and raced a number of horses for both flat racing and steeplechase events. In 1944, her horse Burma Road won the most prestigious steeplechase race in the United States, the American Grand National and in flat racing, her colt Royal Vale won the 1953 Massachusetts Handicap.\n\nEsther du Pont Thouron helped build the clinic and hospital at the University of Pennsylvania School of Veterinary Medicine's New Bolton Center. In 1966, her contribution to the industry was recognized by the Thoroughbred Owners and Breeders Association who awarded her its Lady's Sportsmanship Award.\n\nEsther du Pont Thouron died at her winter home in Florida on March 24, 1984, at age 76.\n\n"}
{"id": "7697664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7697664", "title": "European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies", "text": "European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies\n\nThe European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies (EFFAS) is the federation of analysts associations in Europe. EFFAS comprises 21 member societies representing more than 14,000 investment professionals. EFFAS was founded in 1962 and the headquarters is located in Frankfurt, Germany.\n\nBesides its European training programme CEFA (Certified European Financial Analyst) EFFAS also grants the Certified Environmental Social and Governance Analysts (CESGA) designation, ensuring professional qualification by offering global as well as local market knowledge within its examination structure. EFFAS also provides services for capital market experts through the national member societies.\n\n"}
{"id": "28645695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28645695", "title": "Federation of the European Sporting Goods Industry", "text": "Federation of the European Sporting Goods Industry\n\nThe Federation of the European Sporting Goods Industry (FESI) is a Brussels-based European platform representing the interests of some 1,800 European sporting goods manufacturers before the European Institutions, Sport Governing bodies such as UEFA and other international sport federations or associations. It is also the founder of the House of Sport, in which it (together with nineteen partners) - plays a crucial role in raising awareness on the benefits of sports and physical activity through cross-sectoral cooperation. Note that since 2015 FESI is also an official partner of the European Week of Sport (EWOS).\n\nThe association aims to provide opportunities for sporting goods companies to collaborate on non-commercial pre-competitive issues of common interest, monitor legislative initiatives relating to the sporting goods industry at a European level, advocate for the sporting goods industry in Brussels, and communicate with European stakeholders about issues from trade and the supply chain, the environment and product safety. The group also aims to promote free trade between European Member States and facilitate trade world-wide. FESI is a member of the World Federation of the Sporting Goods Industry (WFSGI).\n\nThe group has a membership of around 1800 sporting goods manufacturers mainly represented through its affiliation system:\n\nFESI has set up 10 Working Committees covering a wide range of vital EU policy areas:\n\nFESI was created in the early sixties with the aim of achieving free and fair trade in Europe while facilitating trade worldwide. In October 1994, FESI headquarters moved to Brussels, a strategic step which has allowed FESI to increase its lobbying and enhance its impact on European institutions.\n\nIn February 2002, during an Extraordinary General Assembly, FESI decided to allow sports manufacturers a direct voting right in its main decision bodies. Sports manufacturers can thus become FESI Regular Members in the same way as FESI's 12 National Federations.\n\nIn December 2002, following some months of consultation and negotiation, FESI and FEPI (Federation of the European Play Industry) signed a letter of intent which paved the way for a future collaboration between both organizations.\n\n"}
{"id": "5516852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5516852", "title": "Fifth Avenue–59th Street (BMT Broadway Line)", "text": "Fifth Avenue–59th Street (BMT Broadway Line)\n\nFifth Avenue–59th Street is a station on the BMT Broadway Line of the New York City Subway. Located under Grand Army Plaza near the intersection of 5th Avenue and 60th Street in Manhattan, it is served by the N train at all times, W on weekdays, and R at all times except late nights.\n\nThe station has two tracks and two side platforms, with a mezzanine above both the western and eastern ends of the station. Replicas of BMT directional mosaics “QUEENS TRAINS” and “BROOKLYN TRAINS” are found on the western exit. Each mezzanine has one stair to each platform. Mosaics “5”, “Fifth Ave,” and the directional signs on each platform, are fully preserved with new tiles encircling around them.\n\nThis station was overhauled in the late 1970s. The MTA fixed the station's structure and overall appearance, replacing the original wall tiles, old signs, and incandescent lighting with 1970s modern-look wall tile band and tablet mosaics, signs and fluorescent lights. It also fixed staircases and platform edges. In 2002, the station received a major overhaul. It received state-of-art repairs as well as an upgrade of the station for ADA compliance and restoration the original late 1910s tiling. The MTA repaired the staircases, re-tiling for the walls, installed new tiling on the floors, upgraded the station's lights and the public address system, and installed ADA yellow safety threads along the platform edges, new signs, and new track-beds in both directions.\n\nArtwork here was made in 1997 by Ann Schaumburger and is called \"Urban Oasis.\" It uses glass mosaic murals to depict families of different types of animals, particularly for the nearby Central Park Zoo.\n\nThe full-time side of the station at the north end, at 60th Street and Fifth Avenue, has three street staircases, one carved into the outer perimeter of Central Park (northwestern corner of that intersection) and the other two on either eastern corner of the intersection. The part-time side at Central Park South, just by the Plaza Hotel, formerly had a booth (closed in 2003) and three street staircases as well: two carved inside Central Park's perimeter, on the northern side of Central Park South, and one to the southern side, inside a building just west of the Plaza Hotel.\n"}
{"id": "32784732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32784732", "title": "Haruo Maekawa", "text": "Haruo Maekawa\n\n, also romanized as Mayekawa, was a Japanese businessman, central banker, the 24th Governor of the Bank of Japan (BOJ).\n\nMaekawa was born in Tokyo.\n\nBefore rising to become head of the Bank of Japan, Maekawa held other bank positions, including director of foreign-exchange operations.\n\nMaekawa was Governor of the Bank of Japan from December 17, 1979 through December 16, 1984, having previously served as Deputy Governor from 1974 to 1979. Along with Finance Minister Noboru Takeshita, he was credited with negotiating a Saudi-Japan petrodollar accord in 1980.\n\nIn 1986, the Maekawa Commission (the \"Advisory Group on Economic Restructuring\" headed by Maekawa) proposed economic reforms designed to make the living standards of Japanese more comparable to levels enjoyed in the West. Maekawa is credited as the chief author of the commission report.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23989529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23989529", "title": "Hobart city centre", "text": "Hobart city centre\n\nHobart City Centre (referred to as Town or Hobart CBD) is a suburb surrounded by metropolitan Hobart, which comprises the original settlement, the central business district, and other built-up areas. It is the oldest part of Hobart and includes many of the city's important institutions and landmarks, such as Parliament, the Supreme Court, Franklin Square, the Elizabeth Street Mall, the Royal Hobart Hospital, the Theatre Royal, State Library, the NAB Building, the Museum, and the Cenotaph. The city centre is located in the local government areas of the City of Hobart.\n\nAlthough the city centre is one of the oldest and most developed areas of Hobart, demographically it is one of the less densely populated areas in the greater area of Hobart, due to its core being commercial. In an attempt to create a more vibrant city at night, the state government has been encouraging inner city residential development in recent years. The population of the city centre was 456 in 2006.\n\nSettlement of Greater Hobart spawned from the settlement of Sullivans Cove on 21 February 1804, by order of David Collins who was most unimpressed with the initial landing site at Risdon Cove.\n\nThe Hobart city centre draws a sense of its identity from its location between the Derwent River and the foot hills of Mount Wellington. The city is concentrated with Low-rise office buildings, interspersed by parks such as Franklin Square and St Davids Park and historic precincts such as Sullivans Cove and Salamanca Place. Due to street width, the majority of Hobart CBD's streets are One-way with a few exceptions including Elizabeth Street, the main north-south thoroughfare of the city centre. Davey Street/Macquarie travel parallel as a one-way couplet carrying traffic between Hobart's major highways along the CBD's southern fringe. The streets run on a slightly warped grid pattern in the CBD, due to early planning by Lachlan Macquarie.\n\nAdministratively, the Hobart City Centre falls under the authority of the local government area of the City of Hobart. The Tasmanian Government also has authority over some aspects of the CBD, in particular the major state controlled roads passing through and around the city.\nWith the exception of Wrest Point Casino in Sandy Bay, the Hobart CBD contains all of Tasmania’s tallest buildings, including 39 Murray Street, 188 Collins Street and the Trafalgar Building. The tallest building in the city centre is NAB House at , however planning restrictions limit future developments to a height of . There have been some exceptions to this rule such as Wellington Centre standing at and the new Royal Hobart Hospital K1/K2 Twin Towers which when complete, will stand at high. The City centre has several shopping areas including the Wellington Centre, Centrepoint and the historically significant Cat & Fiddle Arcade. During 2007, a spectacular inner city fire was responsible for the loss of one of Hobart's Myer buildings and as a result will soon see construction of the Icon Complex, boasting a 5 level Myer with specialty shops as well as a Hotel with roof top bar.\n\nThere is a large concentration of cultural institutions within the CBD including: the Tasmanian Museum and Art Gallery, the State Library of Tasmania, the Playhouse Theatre, and the Theatre Royal.\n\nEvery December, the city hosts the conclusion of the Sydney to Hobart Yacht Race while concurrently holding the Taste Festival. \nEvery January the city hosts the Australian Wooden Boat Festival and the annual Royal Hobart Regatta is held during February.\n\nAdditional, the Salamanca Market is held at Salamanca Place every Saturday.\n\n"}
{"id": "52169866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52169866", "title": "Hunter Fraud Score", "text": "Hunter Fraud Score\n\nHunter Fraud Score is a rating score launched locally in India by Credit rating agency, Experian, to detect fraud in credit applications to banks and insurance companies and help them lower their losses.\n\nClosed user group (CUG)\n\nPresently, Experian maintains a network of 47 banks and 15 life insurer companies as a part of the CUG, that covers 50 per cent of the retail banking applications whose data is verified timely. With increase in these numbers, it can become a more complicated and secured database.\n\nThere are various criteria based on which information is matched in the loan application from different data sources and inconsistencies after that are identified.The company has some sophisticated analytical solutions which allows it to create an advanced analytical approach, to predict and calculate some authentic score that can help banks lower their losses. A data repository has been created to collect the data of all the past customers in addition to their KYC norms data, on which data mining is performed to filter out the useful minute details and extrapolate the user's data. The solution has some customised rules to analyse different data sources to highlight inconsistencies and discrepancies so that it can match with the known fraud data. The results calculate the level of fraud risk and any application if found suspicious is moved into a special investigation tool to take further action.\n\nUnder Section 45 of the Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act, if three years duration is crossed for any reason to reject an insurance claim then it can not be rejected after that period. So, this repository would help them catch criminals before they breach the obstacles to commit fraud. Data from life insurers reveals that there is about 20 per cent rise year by year in fraudulent claims. A nexus has been identified of fraudulent people who get their claims passed through their relatives in the authorities which pass the claims. Depending on the screening, businesses will be able to identify applications that have high probability of potential fraud.\n"}
{"id": "15253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15253", "title": "International Bank Account Number", "text": "International Bank Account Number\n\nThe International Bank Account Number (IBAN) is an internationally agreed system of identifying bank accounts across national borders to facilitate the communication and processing of cross border transactions with a reduced risk of transcription errors. It was originally adopted by the European Committee for Banking Standards (ECBS), and later as an international standard under ISO 13616:1997. The current standard is ISO 13616:2007, which indicates SWIFT as the formal registrar. Initially developed to facilitate payments within the European Union, it has been implemented by most European countries and numerous countries in the other parts of the world, mainly in the Middle East and in the Caribbean. As of February 2016, 69 countries were using the IBAN numbering system.\n\nThe IBAN consists of up to 34 alphanumeric characters comprising: a country code; two check digits; and a number that includes the domestic bank account number, branch identifier, and potential routing information. The check digits enable a check of the bank account number to confirm its integrity before submitting a transaction.\n\nBefore IBAN, differing national standards for bank account identification (i.e. bank, branch, routing codes, and account number) were confusing for some users. This often led to necessary routing information being missing from payments. Routing information as specified by ISO 9362 (also known as Business Identifier Codes (BIC code), SWIFT ID or SWIFT code, and SWIFT-BIC) does not require a specific format for the transaction so the identification of accounts and transaction types is left to agreements of the transaction partners. It also does not contain check digits, so errors of transcription were not detectable and it was not possible for a sending bank to validate the routing information prior to submitting the payment. Routing errors caused delayed payments and incurred extra costs to the sending and receiving banks and often to intermediate routing banks.\n\nIn 1997, to overcome these difficulties, the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) published ISO 13616:1997. This proposal had a degree of flexibility, which the European Committee for Banking Standards (ECBS) believed would make it unworkable, and they produced a \"slimmed down\" version of the standard which, amongst other things, permitted only upper-case letters and required that the IBAN for each country have a fixed length. ISO 13616:1997 was subsequently withdrawn and replaced by ISO 13616:2003. The standard was revised again in 2007 when it was split into two parts. ISO 13616-1:2007 \"specifies the elements of an international bank account number (IBAN) used to facilitate the processing of data internationally in data interchange, in financial environments as well as within and between other industries\" but \"does not specify internal procedures, file organization techniques, storage media, languages, etc. to be used in its implementation\". ISO 13616-2:2007 describes \"the Registration Authority (RA) responsible for the registry of IBAN formats that are compliant with ISO 13616-1 [and] the procedures for registering ISO 13616-compliant IBAN formats\". The official IBAN registrar under ISO 13616-2:2007 is SWIFT.\n\nIBAN imposes a flexible but regular format sufficient for account identification and contains validation information to avoid errors of transcription. It carries all the routing information needed to get a payment from one bank to another wherever it may be; it contains key bank account details such as country code, branch codes (known as sort codes in the UK and Ireland) and account numbers, and it contains \"check digits\" which can be validated at source according to a single standard procedure. Where used, IBANs have reduced trans-national money transfer errors to under 0.1% of total payments.\n\nThe IBAN consists of up to 34 alphanumeric characters, as follows:\n\n\nThe check digits enable a sanity check of the bank account number to confirm its integrity before submitting a transaction.\n\nThe IBAN should not contain spaces when transmitted electronically. When printed it is expressed in groups of four characters separated by a single space, the last group being of variable length as shown in the example below:\n\nPermitted IBAN characters are the digits \"0\" to \"9\" and the 26 upper-case Latin alphabetic characters \"A\" to \"Z\". This applies even in countries (e.g., Thailand) where these characters are not used in the national language.\n\nThe Basic Bank Account Number (BBAN) format is decided by the national central bank or designated payment authority of each country. There is no consistency between the formats adopted. The national authority may register its BBAN format with SWIFT, but is not obliged to do so. It may adopt IBAN without registration. SWIFT also acts as the registration authority for the SWIFT system, which is used by most countries that have not adopted IBAN. A major difference between the two systems is that under SWIFT there is no requirement that BBANs used within a country be of a pre-defined length.\n\nThe BBAN must be of a fixed length for the country and comprise case-insensitive alphanumeric characters. It includes the domestic bank account number, branch identifier, and potential routing information. Each country can have a different national routing/account numbering system, up to a maximum of 30 alphanumeric characters.\n\nThe check digits enable the sending bank (or its customer) to perform a sanity check of the routing destination and account number from a single string of data at the time of data entry. This check is guaranteed to detect any instances where a single character has been omitted, duplicated, mistyped or where two characters have been transposed. Thus routing and account number errors are virtually eliminated.\n\nOne of the design aims of the IBAN was to enable as much validation as possible to be done at the point of data entry. In particular, the computer program that accepts an IBAN will be able to validate:\n\n\nThe check digits are calculated using MOD-97-10 as per ISO/IEC 7064:2003 (abbreviated to \"mod-97\" in this article), which specifies a set of check character systems capable of protecting strings against errors which occur when people copy or key data. In particular, the standard states that the following can be detected:\n\n\nThe underlying rules for IBANs is that the account-servicing financial institution should issue an IBAN, as there are a number of areas where different IBANs could be generated from the same account and branch numbers that would satisfy the generic IBAN validation rules. In particular cases where 00 is a valid check digit, 97 will not be a valid check digit, likewise, if 01 is a valid check digit, 98 will not be a valid check digit, similarly with 02 and 99.\n\nThe UN CEFACT TBG5 has published a free IBAN validation service in 32 languages for all 57 countries that have adopted the IBAN standard. They have also published the Javascript source code of the verification algorithm.\n\nAn English language IBAN checker for ECBS member country bank accounts is available on its website.\n\nAn IBAN is validated by converting it into an integer and performing a basic \"mod-97\" operation (as described in ISO 7064) on it. If the IBAN is valid, the remainder equals 1. The algorithm of IBAN validation is as follows:\n\n\nIf the remainder is 1, the check digit test is passed and the IBAN might be valid.\n\nExample (fictitious United Kingdom bank, sort code 12-34-56, account number 98765432):\n\nAccording to the ECBS \"generation of the IBAN SA1280000119608010928677 shall be the exclusive responsibility of the bank/branch servicing the account\". The ECBS document replicates part of the ISO/IEC 7064:2003 standard as a method for generating check digits in the range 02 to 98. Check digits in the ranges 00 to 96, 01 to 97, and 03 to 99 will also provide validation of an IBAN, but the standard is silent as to whether or not these ranges may be used.\n\nThe preferred algorithm is:\n\n\nAny computer programming language or software package that is used to compute \"D\" mod \"97\" directly must have the ability to handle integers of more than 30 digits. In practice, this can only be done by software that either supports arbitrary-precision arithmetic or that can handle 220 bit (unsigned) integers, features that are often not standard. If the application software in use does not provide the ability to handle integers of this size, the modulo operation can be performed in a piece-wise manner (as is the case with the UN CEFACT TBG5 Javascript program).\n\nPiece-wise calculation can be done in many ways. One such way is as follows:\n\n\nThe result of the final calculation in step 2 will be \"D\" mod 97 = \"N\" mod \"97\".\n\nIn this example, the above algorithm for \"D\" mod 97 will be applied to \"D\" = 3214282912345698765432161182. (The digits are colour-coded to aid the description below.) If the result is one, the IBAN corresponding to \"D\" passes the check digit test.\n\n\nFrom step 8, the final result is \"D\" mod 97 = 1 and the IBAN has passed this check digit test.\n\nInternational bank transactions use either an IBAN or the ISO 9362 Business Identifier Code system (BIC or SWIFT code) in conjunction with the BBAN (Basic Bank Account Number).\n\nThe banks of most countries in Europe publish account numbers using both the IBAN format and the nationally recognised identifiers, this being mandatory within the European Economic Area.\n\nDay-to-day administration of banking in British Overseas Territories varies from territory to territory; some, such as South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands, have too small a population to warrant a banking system while others, such as Bermuda, have a thriving financial sector. The use of the IBAN is up to the local government—Gibraltar, being part of the European Union is required to use the IBAN, as are the Crown dependencies, which use the British clearing system, and the British Virgin Islands have chosen to do so. , no other British Overseas Territories have chosen to use the IBAN. Banks in the Caribbean Netherlands also do not use the IBAN.\n\nThe IBAN designation scheme was chosen as the foundation for electronic straight-through processing in the European Economic Area. The European Parliament mandated that a bank charge needs to be the same amount for domestic credit transfers as for cross-border credit transfers regulated in decision 2560/2001 (updated in 924/2009). This regulation took effect in 2003. Only payments in euro up to €12,500 to a bank account designated by its IBAN were covered by the regulation.\n\nThe Euro Payments regulation has been the foundation for the decision to create a Single Euro Payments Area (SEPA). The European Central Bank has created the TARGET2 interbank network that unifies the technical infrastructure of the 26 central banks of the European Union (although Sweden and the UK have opted out). SEPA is a self-regulatory initiative by the banking sector of Europe as represented in the European Payments Council (EPC). The European Union made the scheme mandatory through the Payment Services Directive published in 2007. Since January 2008, all countries must support SEPA credit transfer, and SEPA direct debit must be supported since November 2009. The regulation on SEPA payments increases the charge cap (same price for domestic payments as for cross-border payments) to €50,000.\n\nWith a further decision of the European Parliament, the IBAN scheme for bank accounts fully replaced the domestic numbering schemes from 31 December 2012. On 16 December 2010, the European Commission published proposed regulations that will make IBAN support mandatory for domestic credit transfer by 2013 and for domestic direct debit by 2014 (with a 12 and 24 months transition period respectively). Some countries have already replaced their traditional bank account scheme by IBAN. This includes Switzerland where IBAN was introduced for national credit transfer on 1 January 2006 and the support for the old bank account numbers has not been required from 1 January 2010.\n\nBased on a 20 December 2011 memorandum, the EU parliament resolved the mandatory dates for the adoption of the IBAN on 14 February 2012. From 1 February 2014, all national systems for credit transfer and direct debit must be abolished and replaced by an IBAN-based system. This will be extended to all cross-border SEPA transactions from 1 February 2016 (Article 5 Section 7). After these dates the IBAN will be sufficient to identify an account for home and foreign financial transactions in SEPA countries and banks will no longer be permitted to require that the customer supply the BIC for the beneficiary's bank.\n\nIn the run-up to the 1 February 2014 deadline, it became apparent that many old bank account numbers had not been allocated IBANs—an issue that has to be addressed on a country-by-country basis. In Germany, for example, Deutsche Bundesbank and the German Banking Industry Committee require that all holders of German bank codes (\"Bankleitzahl\") publish the specifics of their IBAN generation format taking into account not only the generation of check digits but also the handling of legacy bank codes, thereby enabling third parties to generate IBANs independently of the bank. The first such catalogue was published in June 2013 as a variant of the old bank code catalog (\"Bankleitzahlendatei\").\n\nBanks in numerous non-European countries including most states of the Middle East, North Africa and the Caribbean have implemented the IBAN format for account identification. In some countries the IBAN is used on an \"ad hoc\" basis, an example being Ukraine where account numbers used for international transfers of four of the national banks have additional aliases that follow the IBAN format as a precursor to formal SWIFT registration.\n\nThe degree to which bank verifies the validity of a recipient's bank account number depends of the configuration of the transmitting bank's software—many major software packages supply bank account validation as a standard function. Some banks outside Europe may not recognize IBAN, though this is expected to diminish with time. Non-European banks usually accept IBANs for accounts in Europe, although they might not treat IBANs differently from other foreign bank account numbers. In particular, they might not check the IBAN's validity prior to sending the transfer.\n\nBanks in the United States do not use IBAN as account numbers for U.S. accounts. Any adoption of the IBAN standard by U.S. banks would likely be initiated by ANSI ASC X9, the U.S. financial services standards development organization: a working group (WGAB20) was established as an X9 subcommittee to generate an IBAN construction for U.S. bank accounts.\n\nCanadian financial institutions have not adopted IBAN and use routing numbers issued by Payments Canada for domestic transfers, and SWIFT for international transfers. There is no formal governmental or private sector regulatory requirement in Canada for the major banks to use IBAN.\n\nAustralia and New Zealand do not use IBAN. They use Bank State Branch codes for domestic transfers and SWIFT for international transfers.\n\nThis table summarises the IBAN formats by country:\n\n\nIn addition to the above list, Nordea has catalogued IBANs for countries listed below.\n\nIn this list\nAddition list of countries, in the process of introducing the IBAN retrieved from SWIFT partner website are listed below.\n\nIn this list\n\nThere is criticism about the length and readability of IBAN. Printed on paper the IBAN is often difficult to read. Therefore, it is popular to group the IBAN with four symbols. However, for electronic documents (e.g. PDF invoice) the copy and paste of grouped IBAN can result in errors with online banking forms. Only a few user friendly bank institutes allow and detect the copy and paste of both grouped and ungrouped IBAN.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "292257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292257", "title": "Ipswich, Queensland", "text": "Ipswich, Queensland\n\nIpswich is an urban region in south-east Queensland, Australia, which is located in the south-west of the Brisbane metropolitan area. Situated on the Bremer River, it is approximately west of the Brisbane CBD. A local government area, the City of Ipswich has a population of 200,000 (projected to grow to 435,000 residents by 2031). The city is renowned for its architectural, natural and cultural heritage. Ipswich preserves and operates from many of its historical buildings, with more than 6000 heritage-listed sites and over 500 parks. Ipswich began in 1827 as a mining settlement.\n\nPrior to the arrival of European settlers, what is now called Ipswich was home to many indigenous language groups, including the Warpai tribe, Yuggera and Ugarapul Indigenous Australian groups. The area was first explored by European colonists in 1826, when Captain Patrick Logan, Commandant of the Moreton Bay penal colony, sailed up the Brisbane River and discovered large deposits of limestone and other minerals.\n\nThe town began in 1827 as a limestone mining settlement and grew rapidly as a major inland port. Ipswich was initially named \"The Limestone Hills\" and later shortened to \"Limestone\", however in 1843 it was renamed after the town of Ipswich in England. The population was 932 in 1851 and had risen to 2459 by 1856. It became a municipality in 1858. Ipswich was a prime candidate for becoming the capital of Queensland, but Brisbane was instead chosen in 1859. It was proclaimed a city in 1904.\n\nThe city became a major coal-mining area in the early 19th Century, contributing to the development of railways in the region as a means of transport. The first recorded coal mines in the central Ipswich area started at Woodend in 1848.\n\nFrom the 1840s onward, Ipswich was becoming an important river port for growing local industries such as coal and wool from the Darling Downs and a regular paddlesteamer service from Brisbane Town, \"The Experiment\", was established in 1846. This, and other steamer services, remained the primary form of mass/bulk transport between the two cities until 1876, when the construction of the original Albert Bridge, spanning the Brisbane River at Indooroopilly, completed the railway line begun between Ipswich and Brisbane in 1873.\n\nIpswich was proclaimed a municipality on 2 March 1860 and became a city in 1904.\n\nSeveral members of the British Royal Family have visited Ipswich.\n\n1868 – Prince Alfred, Duke of Edinburgh\n\n1920 – Prince of Wales (later Edward VIII)\n\n1927 – Duke and Duchess of York (later King George VI and Queen Elizabeth)\n\n1958 – Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother\n\n1962 – Princess Alice, Countess of Athlone\n\n2011 – Prince William (later Duke of Cambridge)\n\n2014 – Duke and Duchess of Cambridge\n\nDamaging flooding has occurred on numerous occasions in Ipswich, the largest being the 1893 Brisbane flood peaking at 24.5 m, and more recently during the 1974 Brisbane Flood, (peaking at 20.7 m) and 2010–11 Queensland floods (peaking at 19.4 m) on 12 January 2011.\n\nAround 35 people died in the floods in the 1893 Brisbane flood. The Brisbane River burst its banks on three occasions in February of that year and a fourth event several months later.\n7 workers were killed at a colliery in north Ipswich as the Bremer River broke its banks.\n\n14 people died in flooding in January 1974, during the Australia Day weekend. Two people were killed in Ipswich. At least 6,700 homes flooded across the region. Thousands of homes in Ipswich and Brisbane could not be recovered.\n\nThe Bremer River at Ipswich reached a height of 19.5 metres (64 ft) on 12 January, inundating the central business district and thousands of houses. 38 people died as a result of the floods. At Minden, on the border of Ipswich City, a four-year-old boy was swept away by floodwaters when he fell from a rescue boat. A man in his fifties died when he accidentally drove into floodwaters in the Ipswich suburb of Wulkuraka.\n\nThe worst affected areas of Ipswich were the suburbs of Goodna and Gailes. The flooding allowed bull sharks to reach the centre of Goodna; one was spotted swimming in Williams Street, and a second in Queen Street.\n\nA multibillion-dollar class action lawsuit is underway against dam operators Seqwater, SunWater and the State of Queensland. Law firm Maurice Blackburn have lodged the suit on behalf of 5,500 Ipswich and Brisbane residents who lost their homes or businesses during the floods. Modelling released in 2013 claimed flooding of Ipswich CBD would not have been as extreme if Wivenhoe Dam operators had operated the dam correctly.\n\nThe Ipswich Central Library building opened in 1994.\n\nThe Ipswich Historical Society was established in 1966 and is located at Cooneana Heritage Centre, 11041 Redbank Plains Rd, New Chum, Ipswich. \n\nIpswich experiences a humid subtropical climate (Köppen climate classification \"Cfa\") with hot and humid summers, mild to warm winters with cool overnight temperatures and heavy summer storms. It is generally cooler than the Brisbane CBD, especially in terms of overnight temperatures, in winter, whilst being slightly warmer in summer.\n\nIpswich was a major mining centre, particularly coal mining. The city is the 'cradle of coal mining in Queensland'. Other secondary manufacturing industries included earthenware works, sawmills, abattoirs and foundries, while the region is also rich agriculturally.\n\nIpswich remains a strong manufacturing region, with more than 14% of workers employed in the manufacturing industry, compared to just 7.6% for regional Queensland.\n\nExtensive growth is predicted in Ipswich and the Western Corridor region in years to come, the economy is projected to be worth $12.7 billion by 2026. Global giant General Electric moved its Queensland headquarters into a $72 million building in Springfield in 2015.\n\nIpswich is the site of RAAF Base Amberley, the Royal Australian Air Force's largest operational base. It is currently home to No. 1 Squadron and No. 6 Squadron (operating the F/A-18F Super Hornet), No. 33 Squadron (taking delivery of the Airbus KC-30A) and No. 36 Squadron (operating the Boeing C-17 Globemaster III jet transport). In addition, a number of ground support units are located at Amberley.\n\nIn recent years, Ipswich has become a sought-after filming location. The 2013 movie \"The Railway Man\" was filmed around the city's railyards. Other major films, including \"San Andreas\" starring Dwayne Johnson, and \"Inspector Gadget 2\" were filmed around the city. Several Australian films have also used Ipswich for shooting locations, including the 2016 movie \"Don't Tell\" and Savages Crossing, \"The Settlement\", \"The Tree\", \"Mystery Road\", \"500 Miles\" and telemovies, \"Parer's War\" and \"Mabo\". Australian TV legal drama \"Rise\" was also filmed at Borallon Correctional Centre.\n\nIpswich is recognised for its important collection of historic buildings. Historic house types range from Early Colonial/Victorian (1850 onwards) to Queensland Bungalow (until 1935), with the city showcasing many markers and plaques outside heritage and historical locations.\n\nThe traditional Ipswich dwelling has always been a detached home on land, and is frequently portrayed in the paintings of D'Arcy Doyle, however this is changing as modern housing developments increase. The city is the fastest-growing area in South East Queensland (SEQ).\n\nTwo major developments, underway at Springfield and Ripley, will be central to housing this growth. \nThe multibillion-dollar Greater Springfield development was awarded World's Best Master Planned Community 2010 and is designed to grow to an ultimate population of 85,000, with a projection of 105,000 total residents living in the area by 2030. Greater Springfield is positioned as the gateway to the western corridor of the south-east. At 2,860 hectares it is the largest master planned city in Australia.\nThe Ripley Valley Development is master planned to be a model community for a projected population of 120,000 people.\n\nIn March 2016, Ipswich's digital innovation and startup hub, Fire Station 101, was officially launched. Owned by Ipswich City Developments and operated by Ipswich City Enterprises, Fire Station 101 will\nposition the region as a leader of the digital economy. More than fifteen members had signed up prior to the opening.\nIn 2015, Ipswich was named in the world's Top 7 most Intelligent Communities by the Intelligent Community Forum (ICF) in New York.\n\nIpswich is home to dozens of primary and secondary schools, including Ipswich Grammar School, which was the first high school in Queensland (established in 1863). Ipswich Girls' Grammar School was established 1892.\nTertiary education facilities include University of Southern Queensland, which has campuses at Springfield and Ipswich.\nTAFE Queensland South West has a campus at Bundamba and another in Springfield.\n\nIpswich is home to the Safe City camera network, which commenced in 1994. More than 200 cameras are monitored 24/7 from a facility situated within the CBD.\n\nThe Ipswich City Council Safe City Monitoring Facility has hosted representatives of law enforcement agencies from the Netherlands, Taiwan, Great Britain and approximately twenty-five local authorities from across Australia to inspect the closed-circuit television (CCTV) camera monitoring system.\n\nIpswich Hospital is the major public hospital. St Andrew's Private Hospital and Mater Private Hospital Springfield are local private hospitals.\n\nIpswich has direct access to the Ipswich Motorway (linking to Brisbane); the Cunningham Highway (linking to Warwick); the Warrego Highway (linking to Toowoomba); the Logan Motorway and its connection to the Pacific Motorway (linking to Logan and the Gold Coast); and the Centenary Highway (linking Springfield and the Ripley Valley to Brisbane).\n\nIpswich Railway Station is a major hub for rail transport. The electrified rail line that extends east from Ipswich through Brisbane's western suburbs to the Brisbane CBD is known as the Ipswich Line. The Rosewood railway line, part of the first railway in Queensland, is also electrified and extends west through Ipswich's western suburbs to the town of Rosewood. Both lines are operated by Queensland Rail.\n\nIpswich has more than 500 parks and conservation estates, including Nerima Gardens, which was designed in consultation with Ipswich's Japanese sister city, Nerima. In 2015, Orion Lagoon opened in Springfield Central.\n\nBrookwater hosts the Brookwater Golf and Country Club, designed by Greg Norman. The par 72 golf course measures 6,505 metres and has been voted as Queensland's number one golf course in Golf Australia magazine's best 50 courses.\n\nThe Ipswich Council operates a public library in Ipswich at 40 South Street.\n\nIpswich is noted for its strong contribution to sport at a state and national level. Local rugby league club Ipswich Jets had a stellar 2015 season, seeing the team win their maiden Intrust Super Cup title and take the NRL State Championship. The win again fuelled interest in a successful Western Corridor NRL bid.\n\n\nThe first Ipswich Annual Show was held on 2 April 1873 by the Queensland Pastoral and Agricultural Society. There had been shows staged by the Ipswich and West Moreton Horticultural and Agricultural Society as early as 1868. Originally held at the sale yards situated at Lobb St, Churchill, the show moved to its present home at the Ipswich Showgrounds in 1877.\n\nThis festival has been held annually at Goodna (Evan Marginson Sportsground) since 1968.\n\nThe Ipswich Festival is an annual multi-disciplinary festival. The event showcases a broad program of entertainment and arts that continues to entertain, inspire and celebrate the essence of the culture, spirit and community in Ipswich.\n\nFirst staged in 1998, the Ipswich Festival is regarded as the city's premier event. The variety, size and scope of the program has grown exponentially through increasing interest group participation, corporate partnerships and community enthusiasm.\n\nThe festival presents Ipswich's cultural heritage and highlights the city's emerging talents through a deliberate program of live bands, concerts, art exhibits, fireworks, theatre, jazz, multicultural celebrations, interactive displays and a range of family-based events to encourage participation by all age groups whilst attracting day tourism to the region.\n\nThe Ipswich Festival runs for two weeks at the end of April and beginning of May with the majority of events free.\n\nThe Fuchs Winternationals is an annual event, typically held around June at Willowbank Raceway, part of the Ipswich Motorsport Precinct. The four-day event is one of the largest drag racing festivals in the southern hemisphere and has drawn crowds of more than 40, 000 people in previous years.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6414835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6414835", "title": "Isaac Allerton Jr.", "text": "Isaac Allerton Jr.\n\nCol. Isaac Allerton Jr. (ca. 1627 / 1630 – December 30, 1702) was a colonel, planter, politician, merchant, and trader in colonial America. He was first in business with his father in New England, and after his father's death, in Virginia. He was a burgess for Northumberland County and a councilor of Virginia.\n\nHe was born in Plymouth, Massachusetts, sometime after May 22, 1627 and before September 21, 1631; however, no birth record has been found for him. He was the son of Mayflower Pilgrim Isaac Allerton Sr. and his second wife Fear Brewster, the daughter of Elder William Brewster, the Pilgrim colonist leader and spiritual elder of the Plymouth Colony, and passenger aboard the Mayflower and one of the signers of the Mayflower Compact; and Mary Brewster. Fear arrived at Plymouth, Massachusetts on July 10, 1623 aboard the Anne. Fear died sometime before December 12, 1634. His father had been married first to Mary Norris who died on February 25, 1621. He had 3 half-siblings: Bartholomew, Remember and Mary, the last surviving passenger of the \"Mayflower\". After Fear's death, he moved to the New Haven Colony, and by 1644 had remarried to his third wife, Joanna Swinnerton.\n\nBecause of the general ire of the Plymouth Colony against his father, he had moved to the New Haven Colony. As a result of the upheavals of losing his mother and his father moving away, the young Allerton became a member of the extended family of his grandfather William Brewster and eventually joined the family of his uncle Love Brewster.\n\nHis aunt Sarah Allerton was married to Degory Priest who was a signer of the Mayflower Compact, and one of the original 102 Pilgrims who arrived on the \"Mayflower\" to Plymouth, Massachusetts in 1620. Sarah did not travel aboard the \"Mayflower\"; she arrived at Plymouth, Massachusetts on July 10, 1623 aboard the \"Anne\".\n\nHe was tutored by his grandfather Brewster prior to entering college. He graduated from Harvard College in Cambridge, Massachusetts in 1650.\n\nAllerton married, as his first wife, Elizabeth (...) in New Haven, Connecticut in 1652/3. They had two children, Elizabeth (1653–1740) and Isaac (1655-?). When his wife Elizabeth died circa 1660, he moved his family to Northumberland County, in Virginia's Northern Neck. Initially he settled in Wicomico at the far eastern end of the county on land adjacent to the Chesapeake Bay and in the vicinity of the plantation of Col. Richard Lee II. His daughter, Elizabeth, was born on September 27, 1653 in New Haven, Connecticut. She subsequently married Benjamin Starr, who was born in Yarmouth, Massachusetts, the grandson of Doctor Comfort Starr of Boston (who emigrated from Ashford, Kent and founded Cambridge, Massachusetts and Harvard College) and nephew of Hannah Starr, the wife of John Cutt (the first President of the Province of New Hampshire). Following Starr's early death, Elizabeth married his first cousin Simon Ayers/Eyres/Eyre of New Haven.\n\nHis son Isaac (the third of the name) was born at New Haven on June 11, 1655. He accompanied his father to Virginia when he was a child, but returned to New Haven about 1683 and lived there most of the remainder of his life.\n\n(The following marriage and children information is no longer accepted by the General Society of Mayflower Descendants; see \"Mayflower Families Through Five Generations\" (Vol. 17: Issac Allerton) by Robert S. Wakefield and Margaret Harris Stover.) In 1663, Allerton married as his second wife the twice-widowed Elizabeth Willoughby (Overzee) Colclough. They had three children: Willoughby (b. ca. 1664), Frances (b. ca. 1668), and Sarah (1670–1731). As a tobacco planter-merchant Allerton probably constructed a wharf and warehouse (as his father had done in New Amsterdam) since financial success required both growing and transporting tobacco. Whether Allerton bought land from his neighbor Richard Lee II or acquired it over time is not known. He may have acquired the land from his marriage to Elizabeth, who would have acquired it from her previous marriages or from her parents.\n\nIn any event, Allerton's family became wealthy, with indentured servants, and owned a plantation on the south side of the Rappahannock River.\n\nIn 1688, he along with Captain George Brent of Stafford County, Virginia (former Governor of Maryland) and Captain Lawrence Washington were named by their friend, Col. Nicholas Spencer Jr. to serve as trustees of his estates. Captain Washington, named by Spencer as a trustee, was the younger brother of Lieutenant Colonel John Washington and was born in 1635. The trustees named by Colonel Spencer in his will received forty shillings for mourning rings.\n\nIn 1663 Allerton was a justice of Northumberland County. In 1667 he was a member of the \"Committee of the Association of Northumberland, Westmoreland and Stafford Counties\". He became a member of the Virginia militia and ultimately rose to the rank of colonel. As a major in 1667, he served under Colonel John Washington, the great-grandfather of president George Washington, in order to subdue Susquehannock and Doeg Indians, who were raiding settlements. Allerton served as justice of the peace and member of the House of Burgesses in 1676-77. During Bacon's Rebellion Allerton was a member of the House of Burgesses but remained loyal to the governor. Allerton's family developed a close relationship with Lee's family. Both Allerton and Lee were senior officers in the Virginia militia and both served as members of the General Court of Virginia. Records of the region indicate that Allerton and Lee participated in commerce, governmental affairs and social activities. In 1691 Allerton, Lee and John Armistead refused to take the oath recognizing William III and Mary II as England's rightful rulers.\n\nLee's younger brother Hancock (1652–1709) married Allerton's daughter Sarah (1670–1731) following the death of Hancock's first wife. They became the great-grandparents of President Zachary Taylor, through their daughter Elizabeth Lee and grandson Colonel Richard Taylor, an officer in the Continental Army in the American Revolutionary War. Another great granddaughter was Mary Willis Lee (1757–1798), the daughter of Hancock Lee II (1709-1762) and Mary Willis (1716–1766). She married Ambrose Madison (1755–1793). He was the son of James Madison, Sr., the owner of a tobacco plantation in Orange County, Virginia; and the brother of James Madison (March 16, 1751 – June 28, 1836) an American politician and political philosopher who served as the fourth President of the United States (1809–1817) and is considered one of the Founding Fathers of the United States.\n\nHe died between October 25, 1702 and December 30, 1702 in Westmoreland County, Virginia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3139122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3139122", "title": "JetForm", "text": "JetForm\n\nJetForm was the name of a Canadian software manufacturer created by four consultants (Wayne Hall, Bob Allum, Tom Hicks, and John Gleed) that was based out of Ottawa, Ontario, Canada and an electronic form software product of the same name.\n\nJetForm once had major offices in the United States, various countries in Europe, Australia, and New Zealand. It was founded in 1982, and was listed under NASDAQ as FORMF, under the Pacific Stock Exchange as JTF, and the Toronto Stock Exchange as JFM.\n\nThe company was originally named Indigo Software and was solely a software consulting firm. Indigo Software did work for the Canadian Federal Government and IBM (as the maintainer of an IBM CAD software product); among other clients. One significant government project resulted in an electronic forms product being created: iFiller, iPrint, et al.\n\nWith Microsoft's release of Windows 3.11, Indigo Software did a major enhancement to the forms software and re-branded it JetForm. The JetForm forms product was very successful, and Indigo Software's consulting work also began to focus on work associated with the JetForm software. Given the popularity of the forms software, Indigo Software made a decision to rename the company JetForm.\n\nIts eponymous series of products directly competed against other electronic forms software, such as Delrina's PerForm, and FormFlow products.\n\nIn September, 1996, Symantec, which had bought Delrina the previous year, sold their Electronic Forms Division to JetForm. JetForm continued to develop the FormFlow series of products under its own name.\n\nAround this time, JetForm bought the naming rights to the Ottawa Baseball Stadium, naming it \"JetForm Park\".\n\nOn September 13, 2001, JetForm changed its name to Accelio. Accelio was acquired by Adobe Systems in February 2002. The electronic forms products were officially retired in 2004. Adobe marketed JetForm as Adobe Central Output Server , without any major changes. Adobe's successor for the JetForm technology was released June 7, 2007, as Adobe LiveCycle Enterprise Suite (ES), part of the Adobe LiveCycle suite. The product was renamed again in April 9, 2009 to Adobe Central / Central Pro Output Server and reached its end of Extended Support on June 30, 2016. \n\nJetForm Rises Again, In 2007 two of the original founders Tom Hicks, Wayne Hall and four of the core software developers of JetForm Central came together to build a new enterprise class document designer, merge engine, presentation and delivery system. The software is called DocOrigin (a play off the Origin of Documents). DocOrigin was first released in 2009 and in 2013 version 3.0 was released.\n\nJetForm Design allowed for routing and tracking in workflow systems, on-screen form creation, and access to SQL and ODBC-compliant databases. JetForm Filler was used for completing on-screen forms. JetForm also developed the XML form format \"XFA\", which was later adopted by Adobe into its PDF software.\n\nOne of the Indigo Forms software's innovations when it was introduced was its ability to have its forms installed into Laserjet font cartridges. This meant that the product only had to send forms data to the printer; since the form was already encoded in the font cartridge. Given the slow printer interfaces used at that time, this greatly reduced print times.\n\n"}
{"id": "159362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=159362", "title": "John F. Kennedy Jr.", "text": "John F. Kennedy Jr.\n\nJohn Fitzgerald Kennedy Jr. (November 25, 1960 – July 16, 1999), often referred to as JFK Jr. or John John, was an American lawyer, journalist, and magazine publisher. He was a son of President John F. Kennedy and First Lady Jacqueline Kennedy, and a younger brother of former Ambassador to Japan Caroline Kennedy. His father was assassinated three days before his third birthday.\n\nFrom his early childhood years at the White House, Kennedy was the subject of great media scrutiny, and he became a popular social figure in Manhattan. Trained as a lawyer, Kennedy worked as a New York City Assistant District Attorney for almost four years. In 1995, he launched \"George\" magazine, using his political and celebrity status to publicize it. Kennedy died in a plane crash in 1999.\n\nJohn Fitzgerald Kennedy Jr. was born at Georgetown University Hospital on November 25, 1960, two weeks after his father was elected president. His parents had a stillborn daughter named Arabella four years before John Jr.'s birth. John Jr. had an older sister, Caroline, and a younger brother, Patrick, who died two days after his premature birth in 1963. His putative nickname, \"John-John\", came from a reporter who misheard JFK calling him \"John\" twice in quick succession; the name was not used by his family.\n\nJohn Jr. lived in the White House during the first three years of his life and later remained in the public spotlight up until his death. His father was assassinated on November 22, 1963, and the state funeral was held three days later, on John Jr.'s third birthday. In a moment that became an iconic image of the 1960s, John Jr. stepped forward and rendered a final salute as his father's flag-draped casket was carried out from St. Matthew's Cathedral. The family continued with their plans for a birthday party to demonstrate that the Kennedys would go on despite the death of the President.\n\nKennedy attended private schools in Manhattan, starting at Saint David's School and moving to Collegiate School, which he attended from third through tenth grade. He completed high school at Phillips Academy Andover, Massachusetts. After graduating, he went to Brown University where he majored in American studies. There, he co-founded a student discussion group that focused on contemporary issues such as apartheid in South Africa, gun control, and civil rights. Visiting South Africa during a summer break, he was appalled by apartheid, and arranged for U.N. Ambassador Andrew Young to speak about the topic at Brown.\n\nBy his junior year at Brown, he had moved off campus to live with several other students in a shared house, and spent time at Xenon, a club owned by Howard Stein. Kennedy was initiated into Phi Psi, a local social fraternity that had been the Rhode Island Alpha Chapter of national Phi Kappa Psi fraternity until 1978. He graduated in 1983 with a bachelor's degree in American studies, and then took a break from work, traveling to India and spending some time at the University of Delhi, where he met Mother Teresa. He also worked with some of the Kennedy special interest projects, including the East Harlem School at Exodus House and Reaching Up.\n\nAfter President Kennedy was assassinated in 1963, Mrs. Kennedy moved her family to a luxury apartment on the Upper East Side of Manhattan in New York City, where Kennedy Jr. grew up. In 1967, his mother took him and Caroline on a six-week \"sentimental journey\" to Ireland, where they met President Éamon de Valera and visited the Kennedy ancestral home in Dunganstown.\n\nAfter his uncle Robert was assassinated in 1968, his mother took him and his sister out of the United States, saying: \"If they're killing Kennedys, then my children are targets ... I want to get out of this country.\" The same year, she married Greek shipping tycoon Aristotle Onassis, and the family went to live on his private island of Skorpios. Kennedy is said to have considered his stepfather \"a joke\".\n\nIn 1971, Kennedy returned to the White House with his mother and sister for the first time since the assassination. President Richard Nixon's daughters gave Kennedy a tour that included his old bedroom, and Nixon showed him the \"Resolute\" desk under which his father had let him play. When Onassis died in 1975, he left Kennedy $25,000, though Jacqueline was able to renegotiate the will, and acquired $20 million for herself and her children.\n\nIn 1976, Kennedy and his cousin visited an earthquake disaster zone at Rabinal in Guatemala, helping with heavy building work and distributing food. The local priest said that they \"ate what the people of Rabinal ate and dressed in Guatemalan clothes and slept in tents like most of the earthquake victims\", adding that the two \"did more for their country's image\" in Guatemala \"than a roomful of ambassadors\". On his sixteenth birthday, Kennedy's Secret Service protection ended and he spent the summer of 1978 working as a wrangler in Wyoming.\n\nBefore attending Brown University, Kennedy accompanied his mother to Africa. On a pioneering course, he rescued his group, which had gotten lost for two days without food or water, and won points for leadership. In 1979, the John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum was dedicated, and Kennedy made his first major speech, reciting Stephen Spender's poem \"I Think Continually of Those Who Were Truly Great\".\n\nAfter the 1984 Democratic Convention in San Francisco, Kennedy returned to New York and earned $20,000 a year in a position at the Office of Business Development, where his boss reflected that he worked \"in the same crummy cubbyhole as everybody else. I heaped on the work and was always pleased.\" From 1984 to 1986, he worked for the New York City Office of Business Development and served as deputy director of the 42nd Street Development Corporation in 1986, conducting negotiations with developers and city agencies. In 1988, he became a summer associate at Manatt, Phelps, Rothenberg & Phillips, a Los Angeles law firm with strong connections to the Democratic Party. There, Kennedy worked for Charlie Manatt, his uncle Ted Kennedy's law school roommate.\n\nFrom 1989, Kennedy headed Reaching Up, a nonprofit group which provided educational and other opportunities for workers who helped people with disabilities. William Ebenstein, executive director of Reaching Up, said, \"He was always concerned with the working poor, and his family always had an interest in helping them.\"\n\nIn 1989, Kennedy earned a J.D. degree from the New York University School of Law. He then failed the New York bar exam twice, before passing on his third try in July 1990. After failing the exam for a second time, Kennedy vowed that he would take it continuously until he was ninety-five years old or passed. If he had failed a third time, he would have been ineligible to serve as a prosecutor in the Manhattan district attorney's office, where he worked for the next four years. On August 29, 1991, Kennedy won his first case as a prosecutor.\n\nIn the summer of 1992, he worked as a journalist and was commissioned by \"The New York Times\" to write an article about his kayaking expedition to the Åland Archipelago, where he saved one of his friends from the water when his kayak capsized. He then considered creating a magazine with his friend, public-relations magnate Michael J. Berman – a plan which his mother thought too risky. In his 2000 book \"The Day John Died\", Christopher Andersen wrote that Jacqueline had also worried that her son would die in a plane crash, and asked her longtime companion Maurice Tempelsman \"to do whatever it took to keep John from becoming a pilot\".\n\nMeanwhile, Kennedy had done a bit of acting, which was one of his passions (he had appeared in many plays while at Brown). He expressed interest in acting as a career, but his mother strongly disapproved of it as an unsuitable profession. On August 4, 1985, Kennedy made his New York acting debut in front of an invitation-only audience at the Irish Theater on Manhattan's West Side. Executive director of the Irish Arts Center, Nye Heron, said that Kennedy was \"one of the best young actors I've seen in years\". Kennedy's director, Robin Saex, stated, \"He has an earnestness that just shines through.\" Kennedy's largest acting role was playing a fictionalized version of himself in the season-eight episode of the sitcom \"Murphy Brown\", called \"Altered States\". In this episode, Kennedy visits Brown at her office, in order to promote a magazine he is publishing.\n\nIn 1995, Kennedy and Michael Berman founded \"George\", a glossy, politics-as-lifestyle and fashion monthly, with Kennedy controlling 50 percent of the shares. Kennedy officially launched the magazine at a news conference in Manhattan on September 8, and joked that he had not seen so many reporters in one place since he failed his first bar exam.\n\nEach issue of the magazine contained an editor's column and interviews written by Kennedy, who believed they could make politics \"accessible by covering it in an entertaining and compelling way\" which would allow \"popular interest and involvement\" to follow. Kennedy did interviews with Louis Farrakhan, Billy Graham, Garth Brooks, and others.\n\nThe first issue was criticized for its image of Cindy Crawford posing as George Washington in a powdered wig and ruffled shirt. In defense of the cover, Kennedy stated that \"political magazines should look like Mirabella.\"\n\nIn July 1997, \"Vanity Fair\" had published a profile of Mayor of New York City Rudy Giuliani claiming that the mayor was sleeping with his press secretary (which both parties denied). Although tempted to follow up on this story, Kennedy decided against it.\nThe same month, Kennedy wrote about meeting Mother Teresa, declaring that the \"three days I spent in her presence was the strongest evidence this struggling Catholic has ever had that God exists.\"\n\nThe September 1997 issue of \"George\" centered on temptation, and featured two of Kennedy's cousins, Michael LeMoyne Kennedy and Joseph P. Kennedy II. Michael had been accused of having an affair with his children's underaged babysitter, while Joe had been accused by his ex-wife of having bullied her. John declared that both his cousins had become \"poster boys for bad behaviour\" – believed to be the first time a member of the Kennedy family had publicly attacked another Kennedy. He said he was trying to show that press coverage of the pair was unfair, due to them being Kennedys. But Joe paraphrased John's father by stating, \"Ask not what you can do for your cousin, but what you can do for his magazine.\"\n\nBy early 1997, Kennedy and Berman found themselves locked in a power struggle, which led to screaming matches, slammed doors, and even one physical altercation. Eventually Berman sold his share of the company, and Kennedy took on Berman's responsibilities himself. Though the magazine had already begun to decline in popularity before Berman left, his departure was followed by a rapid drop in sales.\n\nDavid Pecker, CEO of Hachette Filipacchi Magazines who were partners in \"George\", said that this was because Kennedy refused to \"take risks as an editor, despite the fact that he was an extraordinary risk taker in other areas of his life.\" Pecker said, \"He understood that the target audience for \"George\" was the eighteen-to-thirty-four-year-old demographic, yet he would routinely turn down interviews that would appeal to this age group, like Princess Diana or John Gotti Jr., to interview subjects like Dan Rostenkowski or Võ Nguyên Giáp.\"\nShortly before his death, Kennedy had been planning a series of online chats with the 2000 presidential candidates. Microsoft was to provide the technology and pay for it while receiving advertising in \"George\". After his death, the magazine was bought out by Hachette, but folded in early 2001.\n\nKennedy addressed the 1988 Democratic National Convention, introducing his uncle, Senator Ted Kennedy. He invoked his father's inaugural address, calling \"a generation to public service\", and received a two-minute standing ovation. Republican consultant Richard Viguerie said he did not remember a word of the speech, but remembered \"a good delivery\" and added, \"I think it was a plus for the Democrats and the boy. He is strikingly handsome.\"\n\nKennedy participated in his cousin Patrick J. Kennedy's campaign for a seat in the Rhode Island House of Representatives by visiting the district. He sat outside the polling booth and had his picture taken with \"would-be\" voters. The polaroid ploy worked so well in the campaign that Patrick J. Kennedy used it again in 1994.\n\nWhile attending Brown University, Kennedy met Sally Munro, whom he dated for six years, and they visited India in 1983. While he was a student at Brown, he also met Brooke Shields, with whom he was later linked.\n\nKennedy also dated models Cindy Crawford and Julie Baker, as well as actress Sarah Jessica Parker, who said she enjoyed dating Kennedy but realized he \"was a public domain kind of a guy.\" Parker claimed to have no idea what \"real fame\" was until dating Kennedy and felt that she should \"apologize for dating him\" since it became the \"defining factor in the person\" she was.\n\nKennedy had known actress Daryl Hannah since their two families had vacationed together in St. Maarten in the early '80s. After meeting again at the wedding of his aunt Lee Radziwill in 1988, they dated for five and a half years, though their relationship was complicated by her feelings for singer Jackson Browne, with whom she had lived for a time.\n\nAlso during this time, Kennedy dated Christina Haag. They had known each other as children, and she also attended Brown University.\n\nAfter his relationship with Daryl Hannah ended, Kennedy cohabitated with Carolyn Bessette, who worked in the fashion industry and was the youngest daughter of William J. Bessette and Ann Messina Freeman. They were engaged for a year, though Kennedy consistently denied reports of this. On September 21, 1996, they married in a private ceremony on Cumberland Island, Georgia, where his sister, Caroline, was matron of honor and his cousin Anthony Radziwill was best man.\n\nThe next day, Kennedy's cousin Patrick revealed that the pair had married. When they returned to their Manhattan home, a mass of reporters was on the doorstep. One of them asked Kennedy if he had enjoyed his honeymoon, to which he responded: \"Very much.\" He added \"Getting married is a big adjustment for us, and for a private citizen like Carolyn even more so. I ask you to give her all the privacy and room you can.\"\n\nBut Carolyn was, in fact, badly disoriented by the constant attention from the paparazzi. The couple was permanently on show, both at fashionable Manhattan events, and on their travels to visit celebrities such as Mariuccia Mandelli and Gianni Versace. She also complained to her friend, journalist Jonathan Soroff, that she could not get a job without being accused of exploiting her fame.\n\nKennedy took flying lessons at the Flight Safety Academy in Vero Beach, Florida. In April 1998, he received his pilot's license, which he had dreamed about since he was a child.\n\nThe death of his cousin Michael in a skiing accident brought about a change in Kennedy, making death \"just seem closer and closer.\" Kennedy felt so distressed that he took a hiatus from his piloting lessons at Flight Safety International in Florida for three months. His sister Caroline had hoped that his decision to stop taking piloting lessons would be permanent, but when he resumed, she resigned herself to the \"fact that she could do little to stop him.\"\n\nOn July 16, 1999, Kennedy departed from Fairfield, New Jersey at the controls of his Piper Saratoga light aircraft. He was traveling with his wife Carolyn and sister-in-law Lauren Bessette to attend the wedding of his cousin Rory Kennedy at Martha's Vineyard, Massachusetts. He had purchased the plane on April 28, 1999, from Air Bound Aviation. Carolyn and Lauren were passengers sitting in the second row of seats. Kennedy had checked in with the control tower at the Martha's Vineyard Airport, but the plane was reported missing after it failed to arrive on schedule.\n\nOfficials were not optimistic about finding survivors after aircraft debris and a black suitcase belonging to Bessette were recovered from the Atlantic Ocean. President Bill Clinton gave his support to the Kennedy family during the search for the three missing passengers.\n\nOn July 18, a Coast Guard admiral declared an end to hope that Kennedy, his wife and her sister could be found alive. On July 19, the fragments of Kennedy's plane were found by the NOAA vessel Rude using side-scan sonar. The next day, Navy divers descended into the water. The divers found part of the shattered plane strewn over a broad area of seabed 120 feet (37 m) below the surface of the Atlantic Ocean. The search ended in the late afternoon of July 21, when the three bodies were recovered from the ocean floor by Navy divers and taken by motorcade to the county medical examiner's office. The discovery was made from high-resolution images of the ocean bottom. Divers found Carolyn and Lauren's bodies near the twisted and broken fuselage while Kennedy's body was still strapped into the pilot's seat. Admiral Richard M. Larrabee of the Coast Guard said that all three bodies were \"near and under\" the fuselage, still strapped in.\n\nThe National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) determined that pilot error was the probable cause of the crash: \"Kennedy's failure to maintain control of the airplane during a descent over water at night, which was a result of spatial disorientation.\"\n\nOn the evening of July 21, the bodies were autopsied at the county medical examiner's office; the findings revealed that the crash victims had died upon impact. At the same time, the Kennedy and Bessette families announced their plans for memorial services. On July 21, the three bodies were taken from Hyannis to Duxbury, Massachusetts, where they were cremated in the Mayflower Cemetery crematorium. Ted Kennedy favored a public service for John while Caroline Kennedy insisted on family privacy. On the morning of July 22, their ashes were scattered at sea from the Navy destroyer off the coast of Martha's Vineyard.\n\nA memorial service was held for Kennedy on July 23, 1999, at the Church of St. Thomas More, which was a parish that Kennedy had often attended with his mother and sister. The invitation-only service was attended by hundreds of mourners, including President Bill Clinton, who presented the family with photo albums of John and Carolyn on their visit to the White House from the previous year.\n\nKennedy's last will and testament stipulated that his personal belongings, property, and holdings were to be \"evenly distributed\" among his sister Caroline Kennedy's three children, who were among fourteen beneficiaries in his will.\n\nJohn F. Kennedy Jr. was the first child ever born to a President-elect of the United States. On the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the assassination of John Jr.'s father on November 22, 1963, the \"New York Daily News\" re-ran the famous photograph of the three-year-old John Jr. saluting his father's coffin during the funeral procession. Photographer Dan Farrell, who took the photo, called it \"the saddest thing I've ever seen in my whole life\".\n\nIn 2000, Reaching Up, the organization which Kennedy founded in 1989, joined with The City University of New York to establish the John F. Kennedy Jr. Institute. On September 19, 2003, the ARCO Forum at Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government was renamed to the John F. Kennedy Jr. Forum of Public Affairs. An active participant in Forum events, Kennedy had also been a member of the IOP's Senior Advisory Committee for fifteen years. Kennedy's paternal uncle, Ted, said the renaming would symbolically link Kennedy and his father while his sister, Caroline, stated the renaming represented his love of discussing politics.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22327188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22327188", "title": "KGTK", "text": "KGTK\n\nKGTK (920 AM, \"MegaTalk 920\") is a radio station licensed to serve Olympia, Washington, United States. The station is owned by KITZ Radio, Inc., consisting of the gun rights group Second Amendment Foundation and its affiliate Citizens Committee for the Right to Keep and Bear Arms.\n\nKGTK broadcasts a business/talk radio format.\n\nThe station was assigned the KGTK call sign by the Federal Communications Commission on March 30, 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "7849021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7849021", "title": "Keith Gottfried", "text": "Keith Gottfried\n\nKeith Evan Gottfried (born 1966 in Brooklyn, New York) is an American lawyer, most notably nominated by President George W. Bush on July 29, 2005, and unanimously confirmed by the U.S. Senate on October 7, 2005, to serve as the 19th General Counsel for the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).\n\nGottfried was born in 1966 in Brooklyn, New York. At or around his first birthday, Gottfried's family moved from an apartment in the Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn section of New York City to Howard Beach, Queens where they moved into a then newly built two-level ranch house in the Rockwood Park, Queens section of Howard Beach, Queens.\n\nGottfried is the son of Rosalie Gottfried and the late Bertram Gottfried. Gottfried's mother is the daughter of immigrants from Çanakkale, Turkey and a long-time resident of Howard Beach, Queens. She worked as a middle-school math teacher for the New York City Board of Education for over 40 years until her retirement in 2004; her last teaching assignment prior to her retirement was the Albert Shanker School Of Visual And Performing Arts in Queens, New York. She also previously taught at the Horace Greeley Middle School JHS 10 in Long Island City, Queens. Prior to his death in 2011, Gottfried's father was a resident of Melbourne, Florida and a sales representative for various companies in the tobacco and cigar industries.\n\nGottfried spent much of his childhood growing up in the Howard Beach, Queens area of New York City. His mother continues to live in the same house in Howard Beach that Gottfried's parents first moved into in 1967.\n\nGottfried has commented on both his personal life and his upbringing in Queens in regards to his views on housing and urban development; this can be seen in his public comments to the media and in his prepared statement (while a Nominee to be General Counsel of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development) given to the U.S. Senate during a hearing of the United States Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs on September 15, 2005.\n\nGottfried attended the following New York City public schools: P.S. 207 in Howard Beach, Queens, Robert H. Goddard Junior High School 202 in Ozone Park, Queens, and\nJohn Adams High School (New York City) in Ozone Park, Queens.\n\nGottfried graduated from John Adams High School (New York City) in 1983. At John Adams High School, Gottfried served as the Editor-in-Chief of the high school's newspaper, \"The Campus\".\n\nIn August 2004, Gottfried became engaged to Cindy Goldwasser, an attorney, who was then employed as a mediator with the Peninsula Conflict Resolution Center in San Mateo, California.\n\nOn April 1, 2005, Gottfried and Goldwasser were married in a civil ceremony held in San Jose, California. Two weeks later, on April 17, 2005, they were married in a religious ceremony held at the Tierra del Sol Resort, Spa & Country Club in Aruba.\n\nMrs. Gottfried, a graduate of the McGeorge School of Law of the University of the Pacific in Sacramento, California, was admitted to the practice of law in the State of California on December 1, 2004. Mrs. Gottfried, a naturalized U.S. Citizen, is a native of Bogota, Colombia, having emigrated with her family to the United States as a young child in 1978.\n\nOn March 14, 2006, the Gottfrieds announced the birth of their daughter, Sophie, at the University of Maryland Medical Center. On July 12, 2008, they announced the birth of their son, Benjamin, at the Shady Grove Medical Center in Rockville, Maryland. Gottfried and his family resides in the Washington, DC suburb of Rockville, Maryland.\n\nGottfried received his undergraduate education at the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia where he graduated from its Wharton School in 1983 with a Bachelor of Science degree in Economics concentrated in Accounting.\n\nGottfried received his law degree cum laude from the Boston University School of Law in Boston where he was named an Edward F. Hennessey Distinguished Scholar of Law and a G. Joseph Tauro Scholar of Law. He also holds an M.B.A., with high honors, from the Boston University Graduate School of Management.\n\nFollowing his graduation from the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School, Gottfried practiced public accounting as an auditor with the Philadelphia office of the accounting firm Arthur Young & Company, a predecessor firm to Ernst & Young LLP, and became a certified public accountant in 1989. At Arthur Young & Company, Gottfried advised clients in the hospitality, computer software, technology, manufacturing, retailing and defense sectors. He was also worked on a number of the firm's Atlantic City casino audits, including Bally's Park Place and the former Bally's Grand. In addition to working out of the Philadelphia office, Gottfried worked from the Berwyn, Pennsylvania office of Arthur Young & Company which served as the base of operations for the firm's Entrepreneurial Services Group.\n\nFrom 1994 until 2000, Gottfried was a corporate attorney in the New York City office of the law firm Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP where he practiced in the mergers & acquisitions group.\n\nGottfried left Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP in June 2000 to join the firm's client Borland Software Corporation, then known as Inprise Corporation, as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary.\n\nAs a law student, Gottfried worked as a summer associate, during the summers of 1990 and 1991, in the Philadelphia office of the law firm Blank Rome LLP. Following graduation from Boston University School of Law in 1992, Gottfried joined the Philadelphia office of Blank Rome LLP as a corporate associate. He left Blank Rome LLP in 1994 to join the mergers and acquisitions practice of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP in New York City. More than a dozen years later, following his service in the administration of President George W. Bush, Gottfried rejoined Blank Rome LLP in March 2007 as a partner in its Washington, D.C. office where he practiced in the firm's public companies group.\n\nIn April 2012, Gottfried left Blank Rome LLP to join the Washington, D.C. office of the law firm Alston & Bird LLP as a partner in its Corporate Transactions & Securities Group.\n\nIn June 2014, Gottfried left Alston & Bird LLP to join the Washington, D.C. office of the law firm Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP as a partner in its Business & Finance Group. Gottfried's practice is primarily concentrated on M&A transactions, defending companies against proxy contests and other shareholder activism campaigns, contested control transactions, corporate governance, SEC reporting issues, NYSE and NASDAQ compliance, and general corporate matters.\n\nGottfried was admitted to the practice of law in 1992 and is admitted to the state bars of California, New York, New Jersey and the District of Columbia. Gottfried is also admitted to practice before a number of federal courts, including the Ninth Circuit, the Northern District of California, the Southern District of California, the Eastern District of New York, the Southern District of New York, the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, and the District of New Jersey.\n\nFrom 2000 to 2004, Gottfried served as a senior executive with Borland Software Corporation, a global provider of software development solutions located in Scotts Valley, California, formerly known as Inprise Corporation, having represented Borland (as its outside counsel) prior to joining Borland.\n\nAt Borland, Gottfried initially held the position of Senior Vice President, General Counsel, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary, which made him responsible for all aspects of the company's worldwide legal function. He was later named Borland's Senior Vice President of Corporate Affairs and Special Advisor to the CEO.\n\nAs Senior Vice President of Corporate Affairs and Special Advisor to the CEO, Gottfried was responsible for enhancing the company relationships with industry leaders, potential strategic partners, focal sales account, competitors, domestic and foreign government leaders, lobbyists and trade associations. He was also responsible for exploring new revenue generating initiatives that would leverage the company's existing assets.\n\nDuring his time as a Borland executive, Gottfried also spearheaded Borland's exploration of new geographic markets (e.g., China, Malaysia, Thailand, India, Mexico, Morocco, Egypt, Poland, Czech Republic, Ghana and South Africa) and identifying potential customer/partner and strategic opportunities within such markets.Gottfried represented Borland on numerous trade missions across the world, including to China, Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand, Singapore, Mexico, Morocco, Egypt, Ghana and South Africa. A number of these trade missions were led by the then U.S. Secretary of Commerce, Donald L. Evans.\n\nDuring his tenure as an executive at Borland Software Corporation, Gottfried served as Borland's representative on the Board of Directors of the Business Software Alliance.\n\nAs a member of the Board of Directors of the Business Software Alliance, Gottfried represented the U.S. software industry in numerous meetings domestically and abroad.\n\nAmong other issues, Gottfried was a strong advocate for the passage of free trade agreements. On June 10, 2003, Gottfried testified on behalf of the Business Software Alliance before the Subcommittee on Trade, Committee on Ways and Means of the U.S. House of Representatives to advocate for the implementation of U.S. bilateral free trade agreements with Chile and Singapore.\n\nFrom 2003 to 2004, Gottfried was a significant fundraiser for the campaign to re-elect President George W. Bush to a second term.\nTogether with numerous other Silicon Valley executives and representatives from the venture capital community, Gottfried served as a co-host for numerous events to raise funds for the President's re-election campaign (San Francisco, CA - June 2003; Fresno, CA, October 2003).\nIn July 2003, in recognition of his efforts on behalf of the President's re-election campaign, he was among the supporters of President George W. Bush invited to visit with President Bush and the First Lady Laura Bush in Crawford, Texas.\n\nDuring his time as a Silicon Valley executive, Gottfried, together with numerous other Silicon Valley executives and representatives from the venture capital community, was active in supporting other Republican candidates for national office. Gottfried was also among the California Republicans to lend early support to the campaign to elect former U.S. Treasurer Rosario Marin to the U.S. Senate representing California.\n\nOn July 29, 2005, Gottfried was nominated by President George W. Bush to serve as General Counsel for the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).\n\nOn September 15, 2005, Gottfried appeared before the United States Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs and provided testimony in connection with the Committee's consideration of his nomination to be General Counsel of the HUD.\nOn October 7, 2005, Gottfried's nomination was unanimously confirmed by the U.S. Senate.\n\nOn December 7, 2005, at a ceremony held at HUD's headquarters in Washington, D.C., the Robert C. Weaver Federal Building, Gottfried was sworn-in as the 19th General Counsel of the HUD.\n\nIn addition to remarks by HUD Secretary Alphonso Jackson and HUD Deputy Secretary Roy Bernardi, the Honorable Nelson Diaz, himself a former General Counsel of the HUD in the administration of President Bill Clinton, was among the dignitaries providing remarks. \n\nAs General Counsel of the HUD, Gottfried led a nationwide organization of approximately 700 employees, including close to 400 attorneys and 300 non-attorneys with headquarters in Washington, D.C., ten regional counsel offices and close to forty field counsel offices around the country. At the time, the Office of General Counsel of HUD had an annual budget of approximately $100 million.\n\nGottfried served as this cabinet agency's Chief Legal Officer and was the Senior Legal Advisor to the Secretary, Deputy Secretary and other agency principal staff in the department providing advice on all aspects of Federal laws, regulations and policies applicable to public and Indian housing, community development programs, mortgage insurance programs, complex mixed financing transactions for residential development and health care facilities, fair housing enforcement and urban development programs as well as federal laws, regulations and policies governing ethics, procurement, personnel management and labor relations.\n\nAs General Counsel of HUD, Gottfried was a member of the Federal Housing Administration's Mortgagee Review Board. He also served as the Chief Legal Officer for the Government National Mortgage Association (Ginnie Mae).\n\nDuring his tenure as General Counsel of HUD, Gottfried was perhaps best known for his push for enhanced regulatory transparency at HUD as he pushed for HUD to adopt no-action and interpretative letter processes similar to those he had been familiar with as a securities lawyer practicing before the Securities and Exchange Commission.\n\nDuring Gottfried's tenure as General Counsel, HUD announced the then largest settlement of an enforcement action in the history of the Federal Housing Administration (FHA).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7025067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7025067", "title": "Krishna Palepu", "text": "Krishna Palepu\n\nKrishna Palepu (born 1954) is an American academic, author, consultant and director of various corporations. He is the Ross Graham Walker Professor of Business Administration at Harvard Business School. He serves as Senior Adviser to the President of Harvard University for Global Strategy.\n\nHe has a master's degree in Physics from Andhra University in India, an MBA from the Indian Institute of Management Calcutta, and a doctorate from the MIT Sloan School of Management. He also has an honorary doctorate from the Helsinki School of Economics and Business Administration.\n\nKrishna Palepu's research has been in the areas of strategy in emerging markets, corporate governance and corporate disclosure. His work focuses on making corporate boards more effective, and improving corporate disclosure. In the area of strategy, his focus has been on the globalization of emerging markets, particularly India and China, and the resulting opportunities and challenges for western multinationals as well as local companies with global aspirations in these countries.\n\nIn his prior work, he has done research and published papers on mergers and acquisitions and corporate disclosure. He has been on the Editorial Boards of leading academic journals and is a member of the National Bureau of Economic Research.\n\nIn \"Winning in Emerging Markets\", released in 2010, Tarun Khanna and Krishna Palepu outline a practical framework for developing emerging market strategies based not on broad categorical definitions like geography, but on a structural understanding of these markets. Their framework describes how “institutional voids” – the absence of intermediaries like market research firms and credit card systems to efficiently connect buyers and sellers – create daunting obstacles for companies trying to operate in emerging markets. Understanding these voids – and learning how to work with them in specific markets – is the key to success.\n\nThe fourth edition of \"\", co-authored with Paul Healy, was published by Thomson Southwestern in 2007. Based on Krishna Palepu's research on mergers and acquisitions, finance and corporate disclosure, this textbook is widely used in college and MBA courses on business analysis and valuation. It has been translated into Chinese, Japanese and Spanish.\n\nThe book won the American Accounting Association's Wildman Award for its impact on management practice, as well as the Notable Contribution to the Accounting Literature Award for its impact on academic research.\n\nIt is accompanied by a business analysis and valuation software model published by the Harvard Business School Publishing Company. A fifth edition was published in 2013.\n\nKrishna Palepu has published numerous articles in academic journals and practitioner-oriented publications including \"Journal of Accounting and Economics\", \"The Accounting Review\", \"Harvard Business Review\", \"MIT Sloan Management Review\", \"Brown Journal of World Affairs\", \"Strategic Finance\", \"Contemporary Accounting Research\", the \"Journal of Finance\", \"Academy of Management Journal\", \"Journal of Accounting Research\", \"Journal of International Business Studies\", and \"The Review of Economics and Statistics\".\n\nHe has also published dozens of Harvard Business School cases and course materials.\n\nHe teaches courses in the Accounting and Control unit and courses on strategy in emerging markets at Harvard Business School (HBS). He also teaches in several executive programs at HBS.\n\nPalepu has been a director of a number of companies around the world including Brooks Automation, BTM Corporation, Partners Harvard Medical International, Polymedica,\nand Dr. Reddy's Laboratories \nProfessor Palepu has a Professional Director Certification from the American College of Corporate Directors. On December 8th, 2014, a local Indian court required the return of Rs 2.6 crore for providing professional services to Satyam Computers and remaining on the board as an non-executive director without the company first gaining the government's approval for providing such services. The ruling is under appeal.\n\n"}
{"id": "1449636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1449636", "title": "MicroStrategy", "text": "MicroStrategy\n\nMicroStrategy Incorporated is a company that provides business intelligence (BI), mobile software, and cloud-based services. Founded in 1989 by Michael J. Saylor and Sanju Bansal, the firm develops software to analyze internal and external data in order to make business decisions and to develop mobile apps. It is a public company headquartered in Tysons Corner, Virginia, in the Washington metropolitan area. Its primary business analytics competitors include SAP AG Business Objects, IBM, Cognos, and Oracle Corporation's BI Platform. Saylor is the CEO and chairman of the board.\nSaylor started MicroStrategy in 1989 with a consulting contract from DuPont, which provided Saylor with $250,000 in start-up capital and office space in Wilmington, Delaware. Saylor was soon joined by company co-founder Sanju Bansal, whom he had met while the two were students at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The company produced software for data mining and business intelligence using nonlinear mathematics, an idea inspired by a course on systems-dynamics theory that they took at MIT. \n\nIn 1992, MicroStrategy gained its first major client when it signed a $10 million contract with McDonald's. It increased revenues by 100% each year between 1990 and 1996. In 1994, the company's offices and its 50 employees moved from Delaware to Tysons Corner, Virginia. \n\nOn June 11, 1998, MicroStrategy became a public company via an initial public offering. \n\nIn 2000, the company founded Alarm.com as part of its research and development unit.\n\nOn March 20, 2000, after a review of its accounting practices, the company announced that it would restate its financial results for the preceding two years. Its stock price, which had risen from $7 per share to as high as $333 per share in a year, fell $120 per share, or 62%, in a day in what is regarded as the bursting of the dot-com bubble. In December 2000, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission brought charges against the company and its executives. A lawsuit was subsequently filed against MicroStrategy and certain of its officials over fraud. In December 2000, Saylor, Bansal, and the company's former CFO settled with the SEC without admitting wrongdoing, each paying $350,000 in fines. The officers also paid a combined total of $10 million in disgorgement. The company settled with the SEC, hiring an independent director to ensure regulatory compliance.\n\nIn February 2009, MicroStrategy sold Alarm.com to venture capital firm ABS Capital Partners for $27.7 million. The company introduced OLAP Services with a shared data set cache, to accelerate reports and ad hoc queries. In 2010, the company began developing and deploying business intelligence software for mobile platforms, such as the iPhone and iPad.\n\nIn 2011, the company expanded its offerings to include a cloud-based service, MicroStrategy Cloud. In 2013, MicroStrategy sold Angel to Genesys Telecommunications Laboratories for $110 Million. In January 2014, the company announced a new feature of the platform called PRIME (Parallel Relational In-Memory Engine), co-developed with Facebook. \n\nIn October 2014 the company announced plans to lay off 770 employees, a month after reducing Saylor's salary from $875,000 to $1 at his request.\n\nIn June 2015, MicroStrategy announced the general availability of MicroStrategy 10.\n\nMicroStrategy 10, the latest suite of software, consists of MicroStrategy Analytics, MicroStrategy Mobile, and Usher. MicroStrategy 10.10, released in December 2017, added MicroStrategy Workstation. It uses business intelligence and predictive analytics to search through and perform analytics on big data from a variety of sources, including data warehouses, Excel files, and Apache Hadoop distributions. \n\nMicroStrategy Mobile, introduced in 2010, is a software platform integrating Analytics capabilities into apps for iPhone, iPad, Android, and BlackBerry. It allows easier access without needing to reformat the data for different platforms. \n\nUsher is a digital credential and identity intelligence product that provides a secure way for organizations to control digital and physical access. It replaces physical badges and passwords with secure digital badges, and generates information on user behavior and resource usage. Usher uses three-factor authentication, out-of-band channels, time-limited codes, and bidirectional public key infrastructure encryption.\n"}
{"id": "18323185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18323185", "title": "Morgan-Bedinger-Dandridge House", "text": "Morgan-Bedinger-Dandridge House\n\nThe Morgan-Bedinger-Dandridge House — first known as Poplar Grove, then Rosebrake — is part of a group of structures affiliated with the Morgan's Grove rural historic district near Shepherdstown, West Virginia. The property was known as \"Poplar Grove\" until 1877.\n\nThe original building on the site was built around 1745 by settler Richard Morgan (\"ca.\" 1700-1763) and became known as the \"Back Building\". In 1803 the house was expanded by Daniel Morgan with a two-story brick structure, known as the \"Great House\". Formal gardens were added at this time.\n\nIn 1859 the present main portion of the house was built by Caroline Bedinger, widow of Henry Bedinger. During her ownership the house was occupied by Colonel Alexander R. Boteler, a former U.S. Representative who, at the outbreak of the American Civil War became a Confederate officer. After the war, while Boteler was living at Poplar Grove, President U.S. Grant appointed Boteler to the U. S. Centennial Commission. Caroline's daughter, Danske Bedinger Dandridge, a noted poet, changed the name of the house to \"Rosebrake\" in 1877.\n\nA portico was added to the house in 1950, removed from a house on Long Island and shipped to West Virginia.\n\n"}
{"id": "39460649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39460649", "title": "Myles Martel", "text": "Myles Martel\n\nMyles Martel is an American communication adviser specializing in leadership. He has had a mainly political and corporate client base since 1969, after founding the firm Martel and Associates, where he remains president and CEO.\n\nMartel spent his childhood years in Gardiner, Maine, but now resides in Gulf Stream, FL and Cape May, NJ.\n\nHe holds a B.A. from The University of Connecticut (1965) as well as a master's degree and Ph.D. from Temple University (1974).\n\nEarly in his career, Martel served on the faculty of West Chester University, rising to full professor. As debate coach there, his team won the Pennsylvania state college championship in 1970.\n\nIn 1980, Martel came to national prominence as Ronald Reagan's personal debate adviser, at which time he coached the former president for his televised debates against John Anderson and incumbent Jimmy Carter.\n\nHe has advised Fortune 500 CEOs, celebrities and political leaders including more than 40 senators, congressmen, ambassadors, governors and presidential cabinet members.\n\nMartel has published six books: \"Leadership Legacies: Words to Enlighten, Persuade and Inspire\", \"Before You Say A Word\", \"Political Campaign Debates\", \"Mastering the Art of Q & A\", \"The Persuasive Edge\", and \"Fire Away! Fielding Tough Questions with Finesse\". He has written numerous articles that have been featured in a host of business and academic journals.\n\nMartel's expertise has resulted in wide media exposure on programs including \"ABC World News\", \"Nightline\", and \"CBS This Morning\". His views have been quoted in \"The Wall Street Journal\", \"Directors & Boards\", \"Harper's\", \"U.S. News and World Report\", \"USA Today\" and \"The New York Times\".\n\nMartel has received numerous honors, including the George Washington Honor Medal from the Freedoms Foundation. The University of Connecticut presented him with their Distinguished Alumni Award for Outstanding Professional Achievement, and he was inducted into Temple University's School of Communication and Theater Hall of Fame. Martel delivered the Andrew W. Mellon Fund Lecture at Oxford University.\n\nMartel was awarded the 2013 University of Connecticut (UConn) Alumni Association University Service Award \"in recognition of volunteer efforts that have enriched the depth and stature of UConn.\"\n\nMartel served on the Board of Directors of the University of Connecticut Alumni Association and chaired the Advisory Board of its College of Liberal Arts and Sciences. He is on the graduate faculty at Temple University.\n\nLecture series at both the University of Connecticut and Temple University were created in his name.\n\nIn 2007, Martel initiated and led a University of Connecticut Alumni Association project to build a memorial honoring the university's students who have died while serving the United States during wartime. \"The Ultimate Sacrifice Memorial\" was completed in 2008 and stands on the college's main campus in Storrs, CT.\n\nIn 2013 to celebrate the 150th anniversary of Abraham Lincoln's Gettysburg Address, Martel chairs the \"In Lincoln's Footsteps\" speech contest.\n\n"}
{"id": "8741658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8741658", "title": "New England Fuel Institute", "text": "New England Fuel Institute\n\nThe New England Fuel Institute (or NEFI) is a regional business and trade association headquartered in Lexington, Massachusetts that represents the home heating fuels industry in greater New England. Established in 1950, NEFI represents approximately 1,500 dealers and marketers of heating oil and biofuels for home heating applications (such as bioheat). According to the association's statements, a majority of its member companies are classified as small businesses. NEFI membership also includes heating oil and biofuel transporters and wholesalers, equipment and additive manufacturers, service technicians and other related services companies.\n\nThe association offers an array of member services, including: technical and business training courses; industry trade shows, conferences and seminars; publications including a monthly trade magazine and weekly electronic newsletter; group insurance benefits; regulatory compliance resources; and an in-house grassroots public policy action center.\n\n"}
{"id": "1650021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1650021", "title": "Occupational disease", "text": "Occupational disease\n\nAn occupational disease is any chronic ailment that occurs as a result of work or occupational activity. It is an aspect of occupational safety and health. An occupational disease is typically identified when it is shown that it is more prevalent in a given body of workers than in the general population, or in other worker populations. The first such disease to be recognised, squamous-cell carcinoma of the scrotum, was identified in chimney sweep boys by Sir Percival Pott in 1775. Occupational hazards that are of a traumatic nature (such as falls by roofers) are not considered to be occupational diseases.\n\nUnder the law of workers' compensation in many jurisdictions, there is a presumption that specific disease are caused by the worker being in the work environment and the burden is on the employer or insurer to show that the disease came about from another cause. Diseases compensated by national workers compensation authorities are often termed occupational diseases. However, many countries do not offer compensations for certain diseases like musculoskeletal disorders caused by work (e.g. in Norway). Therefore, the term work-related diseases is utilized to describe diseases of occupational origin. This term however would then include both compensable and non-compensable diseases that have occupational origins.\n\nSome well-known occupational diseases include:\n\nOccupational lung diseases include asbestosis among asbestos miners and those who work with friable asbestos insulation, as well as black lung (coalworker's pneumoconiosis) among coal miners, silicosis among miners and quarrying and tunnel operators and byssinosis among workers in parts of the cotton textile industry.\n\nOccupational asthma has a vast number of occupations at risk.\n\nBad indoor air quality may predispose for diseases in the lungs as well as in other parts of the body.\n\nOccupational skin diseases are ranked among the top five occupational diseases in many countries.\n\nOccupational skin diseases and conditions are generally caused by chemicals and having wet hands for long periods while at work. Eczema is by far the most common, but urticaria, sunburn and skin cancer are also of concern.\n\nContact dermatitis due to irritation is inflammation of the skin which results from a contact with an irritant. It has been observed that this type of dermatitis does not require prior sensitization of the immune system. There have been studies to support that past or present atopic dermatitis is a risk factor for this type of dermatitis. Common irritants include detergents, acids, alkalies, oils, organic solvents and reducing agents.\n\nThe acute form of this dermatitis develops on exposure of the skin to a strong irritant or caustic chemical. This exposure can occur as a result of accident at a workplace. The irritant reaction starts to increase in its intensity within minutes to hours of exposure to the irritant and reaches its peak quickly. After the reaction has reached its peak level, it starts to heal. This process is known as decrescendo phenomenon. The most frequent potent irritants leading to this type of dermatitis are acids and alkaline solutions. The symptoms include redness and swelling of the skin along with the formation of blisters.\n\nThe chronic form occurs as a result of repeated exposure of the skin to weak irritants over long periods of time.\n\nClinical manifestations of the contact dermatitis are also modified by external factors such as environmental factors (mechanical pressure, temperature, and humidity) and predisposing characteristics of the individual (age, sex, ethnic origin, preexisting skin disease, atopic skin diathesis, and anatomic region exposed.\n\nAnother occupational skin disease is Glove related hand urticaria. It has been reported as an occupational problem among the health care workers. This type of hand urticaria is believed to be caused by repeated wearing and removal of the gloves. The reaction is caused by the latex or the nitrile present in the gloves.\n\nHigh-risk occupations include:\n\n\nDonald Hunter in his classic history of occupational diseases discusses many example of occupational diseases. They include:\n\nPrevention measures include avoidance of the irritant through its removal from the workplace or through technical shielding by the use of potent irritants in closed systems or automation, irritant replacement or removal and personal protection of the workers.\n\nIn order to better prevent and control occupational disease, most countries revise and update their related laws, most of them greatly increasing the penalties in case of breaches of the occupational disease laws. Occupational disease prevention, in general legally regulated, is part of good supply chain management and enables companies to design and ensure supply chain social compliance schemes as well as monitor their implementation to identify and prevent occupational disease hazards.\n\n"}
{"id": "8682372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8682372", "title": "Oxford Science Park", "text": "Oxford Science Park\n\nThe Oxford Science Park (OSP) is a science and technology park located on the southern edge of the city of Oxford, England. It was officially opened in 1991 and is owned by Magdalen College, Oxford. The park maintains strong links with the nearby University of Oxford and currently contains just over 60 companies.\n\nThere are two amenity buildings on the Science Park, the Magdalen Centre and the Sadler Building.\nBoth contain:\n\n\nThere is a nursery on the Science Park operated by The Oxford Nursery. There is also an Oxford Science Park Netball Club.\n\nThe science park is situated in Littlemore, which is about 5 km to the south of Oxford city centre, south of the Oxford Ring Road.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3553045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3553045", "title": "Quiet period", "text": "Quiet period\n\nIn United States securities law, the quiet period (or waiting period) has \"historically [meant], a quiet period of time extended from the time a company files a registration statement with the SEC until SEC staff declared the registration statement effective. During that period, the federal securities laws limited what information a company and related parties can release to the public.\"\n\nUnder the rules of the Securities Act of 1933, as modified June 29, 2005, electronic communications, including electronic road shows and information located on or hyperlinked to an issuer's website are also governed. The rules changes of June 29, 2005, also included various changes which \"liberalize permitted offering activity and communications to allow more information\" for certain qualifying organizations.\n\nIn business finance, a waiting period (or quiet period) is the time in which a company making an IPO must be silent about it, so as not to inflate the value of the stock artificially. It is also called the cooling-off period.\n\nDuring a Quiet Period, a publicly listed company cannot make any announcements about anything that could cause a normal investor to change their position on the company's stock. Normally, that means the company does not discuss any of the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "339512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=339512", "title": "Ramón Puerta", "text": "Ramón Puerta\n\nFederico Ramón Puerta (born September 9, 1951) is an Argentine Peronist politician who has served as a governor, senator and national deputy and effectively acted as President of Argentina during 2001.\n\nPuerta was born in Apóstoles, Misiones Province. He attended the Universidad Católica Argentina in Buenos Aires and qualified as a civil engineer. However, he entered the family business of the cultivation of yerba maté, and became a successful businessman and millionaire.\n\nPuerta was elected a national deputy for Misiones in 1987. In 1991 he was elected Governor of Misiones Province, re-elected in 1995 and served until 1999. He followed the neo-liberal economic model of President Carlos Menem, including privatising the provincial bank of which his own grandfather had been a founder.\n\nIn 1999 he was re-elected to the Chamber of Deputies and in 2001 he was elected to the Senate. In November of that year, he was elected provisory President of the Argentine Senate, constitutionally third in line to the nation's presidency.\n\nPuerta served as the acting head of the executive branch of the country for two days on December 21 and December 22, 2001. He came to that position in his capacity as President Pro Tempore of the Senate and, as there was no Vice President, he was next in line to the nation's highest office when President Fernando de la Rúa resigned amid rioting. A week after giving up the presidency, Puerta resigned as leader of the Senate in order to avoid retaking the presidency, following a second institutional crisis.\n\nPuerta stood to be Governor of Misiones in 2003, but lost to his successor, Carlos Rovira. He retired from the Senate in 2005. He ran for governor of Misiones again in 2007, and was defeated in the October election, coming in third place with 15% of the vote.\n\nPuerta is unmarried and has two children.\n\n"}
{"id": "26062097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26062097", "title": "Ray Avery (scientist)", "text": "Ray Avery (scientist)\n\nSir Raymond John Avery (born 1947) is a pharmaceutical scientist, inventor, author and social entrepreneur in Mount Eden, Auckland, New Zealand.\n\nAvery was born in Kent, England. After spending his childhood in orphanages and foster homes, he developed an interest in science at the age of 14 while living rough in London and finding warmth in public libraries. He now mentors young people, speaking regularly at schools and universities. He was later educated at Wye College, a tertiary agricultural college in Kent.\n\nHe settled in New Zealand in 1973 and became a New Zealand citizen within nine months. In 2010, Avery published his autobiography \"Rebel with a Cause\", which charts his life from childhood in English orphanages and foster homes to knighthood.\n\nAfter graduating, Avery worked as an analyst in laboratories, in which he eventually took a shareholding. After leaving Britain and settling in New Zealand, he was a founding member of the Department of Clinical Pharmacology at the University of Auckland School of Medicine. He was then the technical director of Douglas Pharmaceuticals, where he developed and commercialised pharmaceutical and nutritional products.\n\nAs Technical Director of the Fred Hollows Foundation, Avery designed and commissioned two state of the art intraocular lens manufacturing facilities in Asmara, Eritrea and Kathmandu, Nepal, and developed novel low cost lens manufacturing technologies, systems, and global distribution networks. The Fred Hollows Foundation laboratories now provide 13% of the world market for intraocular lenses and use technology invented and gifted by Avery. The mass introduction of regulatory-approved low-cost high-quality Fred Hollows lenses collapsed the global price of lenses, making modern cataract surgery accessible to the world's poorest.\n\nIn 2003, Avery founded the international development organisation Medicine Mondiale dedicated to making quality healthcare and equipment accessible to even the poorest developing nations around the world.\n\nIn 2009, Avery received a World Class New Zealand Award in the Life Sciences category.\n\nSir Ray is co–founder of Jupl NZ Ltd, a medical technology company.\n\nAvery’s inventions include:\n\nMedicine Mondiale is an independent development agency headed by Ray Avery focused on improving life for the world's poor by developing products and technologies that have applications in both the developing and developed world markets.\n\nBetween 1993 and 1997 Ray Avery designed and commissioned two state-of-the-art intraocular lens laboratories in Eritrea and in Nepal. Together these labs now supply 10% of the world market for intraocular lenses and together with the efforts of other generic lens manufacturers have collapsed the price of lenses from over US$300 in 1992 to around US$6 today. As a result, cataract surgery is now available to the very poorest around the world.\n\nThe Acuset is a small device designed to control the flow of drugs through an intravenous (IV) drip. Unlike roller-clamp device still commonly used in the developing world, the Acuset is intuitive to use, even by untrained operators. It allows fine control and precision of flow rates, eliminating the accidental harm, and in some cases death, caused by incorrect drug doses. In 2008 the Acuset was a finalist in the Saatchi & Saatchi World Changing Ideas Awards.\n\nMedicine Mondiale has developed a range of nutritional productions for the treatment of protein-energy malnutrition. These are designed to combat acute diarrhoea, which is the leading cause of death in infants under two years of age in the developing world.\n\nThe Lifepod infant incubator is a low cost but high end incubator invented by Sir Ray Avery. The incubator is designed around performance, ease of use and simple maintenance in challenging conditions, such as in poorly resourced healthcare facilities with inconsistent power and water supplies.\n\nMuch of the incubator's features have been designed in response to shortcomings in many current incubator designs, which are not always effective or practical in challenging conditions.\n\nBy combining an innovative microbial filtration system, as well as robust electronics and mechanisms, Medicine Mondiale intend for the Liferaft infant incubator to be a 'plug and play' solution for neonatal healthcare facilities, requiring little or no maintenance.\n\nAvery has published two books: the best-selling Autobiography “Rebel with a Cause” charting his life from street kid to Knighthood and “The Power of Us” celebrating New Zealanders who dare to dream.\n\nAvery has received awards including:\n\n"}
{"id": "54792966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54792966", "title": "Real Arsenal", "text": "Real Arsenal\n\nThe Real Arsenal was located in Havana, Cuba and was at one time the largest shipyard in the world during the 1700s. It produced ships like \"Santísima Trinidad\".\n"}
{"id": "179855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=179855", "title": "Rothschild family", "text": "Rothschild family\n\nThe Rothschild family is a wealthy Jewish family descending from Mayer Amschel Rothschild (1744–1812), a court factor to the German Landgraves of Hesse-Kassel in the Free City of Frankfurt, Holy Roman Empire, who established his banking business in the 1760s. Unlike most previous court factors, Rothschild managed to bequeath his wealth and established an international banking family through his five sons, who established themselves in London, Paris, Frankfurt, Vienna, and Naples. The family was elevated to noble rank in the Holy Roman Empire and the United Kingdom.\n\nDuring the 19th century, the Rothschild family possessed the largest private fortune in the world, as well as in modern world history. The family's wealth was divided among various descendants, and today their interests cover a diverse range of fields, including financial services, real estate, mining, energy, mixed farming, winemaking and nonprofits.\n\nThe Rothschild family has frequently been the subject of conspiracy theories, many of which have antisemitic origins.\n\nThe first member of the family who was known to use the name \"Rothschild\" was Izaak Elchanan Rothschild, born in 1577. The name is derived from the German \"zum rothen Schild\" (with the old spelling \"th\"), meaning \"at the red shield\", in reference to the house where the family lived for many generations (in those days houses were designated not by numbers but by signs displaying different symbols or colours). A red shield can still be seen at the centre of the Rothschild coat of arms. The family's ascent to international prominence began in 1744, with the birth of Mayer Amschel Rothschild in Frankfurt am Main, Germany. He was the son of Amschel Moses Rothschild (born circa 1710), a money changer who had traded with the Prince of Hesse. Born in the \"Judengasse\", the ghetto of Frankfurt, Mayer developed a finance house and spread his empire by installing each of his five sons in the five main European financial centres to conduct business. The Rothschild coat of arms contains a clenched fist with five arrows symbolising the five dynasties established by the five sons of Mayer Rothschild, in a reference to Psalm 127: \"Like arrows in the hands of a warrior, so are the children of one's youth.\" The family motto appears below the shield: \"Concordia, Integritas, Industria\" (Unity, Integrity, Industry).\n\nPaul Johnson writes \"[T]he Rothschilds are elusive. There is no book about them that is both revealing and accurate. Libraries of nonsense have been written about them... A woman who planned to write a book entitled \"Lies about the Rothschilds\" abandoned it, saying: 'It was relatively easy to spot the lies, but it proved impossible to find out the truth.'\" He writes that, unlike the court factors of earlier centuries, who had financed and managed European noble houses, but often lost their wealth through violence or expropriation, the new kind of international bank created by the Rothschilds was impervious to local attacks. Their assets were held in financial instruments, circulating through the world as stocks, bonds and debts. Changes made by the Rothschilds allowed them to insulate their property from local violence: \"Henceforth their real wealth was beyond the reach of the mob, almost beyond the reach of greedy monarchs.\" Johnson argued that their fortune was generated to the greatest extent by Nathan Mayer Rothschild in London; however, more recent research by Niall Ferguson indicates that greater and equal profits also were realised by the other Rothschild dynasties, including James Mayer de Rothschild in Paris, Carl Mayer von Rothschild in Naples and Amschel Mayer Rothschild in Frankfurt.\n\nAnother essential part of Mayer Rothschild's strategy for success was to keep control of their banks in family hands, allowing them to maintain full secrecy about the size of their fortunes. In about 1906, the Jewish Encyclopedia noted: \"The practice initiated by the Rothschilds of having several brothers of a firm establish branches in the different financial centres was followed by other Jewish financiers, like the Bischoffsheims, Pereires, Seligmans, Lazards and others, and these financiers by their integrity and financial skill obtained credit not alone with their Jewish confrères, but with the banking fraternity in general. By this means, Jewish financiers obtained an increasing share of international finance during the middle and last quarter of the 19th century. The head of the whole group was the Rothschild family...\" It also states: \"Of more recent years, non-Jewish financiers have learned the same cosmopolitan method, and, on the whole, the control is now rather less than more in Jewish hands than formerly.\"\nMayer Rothschild successfully kept the fortune in the family with carefully arranged marriages, often between first- or second-cousins (similar to royal intermarriage). By the late 19th century, however, almost all Rothschilds had started to marry outside the family, usually into the aristocracy or other financial dynasties.\nHis sons were:\n\nThe German family name \"Rothschild\" is pronounced in German, unlike in English. The surname \"Rothschild\" is rare in Germany. The German surname \"Rothschild\" is not related to the Protestant surname \"Rothchilds\" from the United Kingdom.\n\nFamilies by country:\n\nThe five sons of Mayer Amschel Rothschild were elevated to the Austrian nobility by Emperor Francis I of Austria, and they were all granted the Austrian hereditary title of \"Freiherr\" (baron) on 29 September 1822. The British branch of the family was elevated by Queen Victoria, who granted the hereditary title of baronet (1847) and later the hereditary peerage title of Baron Rothschild (1885). Research conducted by \"GreatGameIndia Magazine\" has revealed that the Rothschild family was one of the controller families of the East India Company.\n\nThe Rothschilds already possessed a significant fortune before the start of the Napoleonic Wars (1803–1815), and the family had gained preeminence in the bullion trade by this time. From London in 1813 to 1815, Nathan Mayer Rothschild was instrumental in almost single-handedly financing the British war effort, organising the shipment of bullion to the Duke of Wellington's armies across Europe, as well as arranging the payment of British financial subsidies to their continental allies. In 1815 alone, the Rothschilds provided £9.8 million (in 1815 currency, about £566 million, €717 million or US$869 million today, when using the retail price index, and £6.58 billion, €8,34 billion or US$10.1 billion when using average earnings) in subsidy loans to Britain's continental allies.\nThe brothers helped coordinate Rothschild activities across the continent, and the family developed a network of agents, shippers and couriers to transport gold across war-torn Europe. The family network was also to provide Nathan Rothschild time and again with political and financial information ahead of his peers, giving him an advantage in the markets and rendering the house of Rothschild still more invaluable to the British government.\n\nIn one instance, the family network enabled Nathan to receive in London the news of Wellington's victory at the Battle of Waterloo a full day ahead of the government's official messengers. Rothschild's first concern on this occasion was not to the potential financial advantage on the market which the knowledge would have given him; he and his courier immediately took the news to the government. It was then repeated in later popular accounts, such as that of Morton. The basis for the Rothschild's most famously profitable move was made after the news of British victory had been made public. Nathan Rothschild calculated that the future reduction in government borrowing brought about by the peace would create a bounce in British government bonds after a two-year stabilisation, which would finalise the post-war restructuring of the domestic economy. In what has been described as one of the most audacious moves in financial history, Nathan immediately bought up the government bond market, for what at the time seemed an excessively high price, before waiting two years, then selling the bonds on the crest of a short bounce in the market in 1817 for a 40% profit. Given the sheer power of leverage the Rothschild family had at their disposal, this profit was an enormous sum.\n\nNathan Mayer Rothschild started his business in Manchester in 1806 and gradually moved it to London, where in 1809 he acquired the location at 2 New Court in St. Swithin's Lane, City of London, where it operates today; he established N M Rothschild & Sons in 1811. In 1818, he arranged a £5 million (equal to £ million in 2017) loan to the Prussian government, and the issuing of bonds for government loans formed a mainstay of his bank’s business. He gained a position of such power in the City of London that by 1825–26 he was able to supply enough coin to the Bank of England to enable it to avert a market liquidity crisis.\n\nRothschild family banking businesses pioneered international high finance during the industrialisation of Europe and were instrumental in supporting railway systems across the world and in complex government financing for projects such as the Suez Canal. During the 19th century, the family bought up a large proportion of the property in Mayfair, London.\n\nThe Rothschild family was directly involved in the Independence of Brazil from Portugal in the early 19th century. Upon an agreement, the Brazilian government should pay a compensation of two million pounds sterling to the Kingdom of Portugal to accept Brazil's independence. N M Rothschild & Sons was pre-eminent in raising this capital for the government of the newly formed Empire of Brazil on the London market. In 1825, Nathan Rothschild raised £2,000,000, and indeed was probably discreetly involved in the earlier tranche of this loan which raised £1,000,000 in 1824. Part of the price of Portuguese recognition of Brazilian independence, secured in 1825, was that Brazil should take over repayment of the principal and interest on a £1,500,000 loan made to the Portuguese government in 1823 by N M Rothschild & Sons. A correspondence from Samuel Phillips & Co. in 1824 suggests the close involvement of the Rothschilds in the occasion.\n\nMajor 19th-century businesses founded with Rothschild family capital include:\n\nThe family funded Cecil Rhodes in the creation of the African colony of Rhodesia. From the late 1880s onwards, the family took over control of the Rio Tinto mining company.\n\nThe Japanese government approached the London and Paris families for funding during the Russo-Japanese War. The London consortium's issue of Japanese war bonds would total £11.5 million (at 1907 currency rates; £ in 2012 currency terms).\n\nThe name of Rothschild became synonymous with extravagance and great wealth; and, the family was renowned for its art collecting, for its palaces, as well as for its philanthropy. By the end of the century, the family owned, or had built, at the lowest estimates, over 41 palaces, of a scale and luxury perhaps unparalleled even by the richest royal families. The British Chancellor of the Exchequer Lloyd George claimed, in 1909, that Nathan, Lord Rothschild was the most powerful man in Britain.\n\nIn 1901, with no male heir, the Frankfurt House closed its doors after more than a century in business. It was not until 1989 that the family returned, when N. M. Rothschild & Sons, the British investment arm, plus Bank Rothschild AG, the Swiss branch, set up a representative banking office in Frankfurt.\n\nNiles' Weekly Register, Volume 49 had the following to say about the Rothschilds influence on international high finance in 1836;\n\nIn 1816, four of the five sons of Mayer Amschel Rothschild were elevated to the Austrian nobility by Emperor Francis I of Austria. The remaining son, Nathan, was elevated in 1818. All of them were granted the Austrian hereditary title of \"Freiherr\" (baron) on 29 September 1822. As such, some members of the family used the nobiliary particle \"de\" or \"von\" before their surname to acknowledge the grant of nobility. Traditionally, a baron who received his title from the Holy Roman Emperor, or (after the dissolution of the Holy Roman Empire in 1806) from the Austrian and later Austro-Hungarian Emperor, was known as a \"Reichsfreiherr\" (\"Baron of the Empire\"), although the title is usually shortened to \"Freiherr\".\n\nIn 1847, Sir Anthony de Rothschild was made a hereditary baronet of the United Kingdom. In 1885, Nathan Mayer Rothschild II was granted the hereditary peerage title of Baron Rothschild in the Peerage of the United Kingdom. This title is currently held by the 4th Baron Rothschild.\n\nThe Rothschild banking family of the United Kingdom was founded in 1798 by Nathan Mayer Rothschild (1777–1836), who first settled in Manchester but then moved to London. Nathan Mayer von Rothschild, the third son of Mayer Amschel Rothschild (1744–1812), first established a textile jobbing business in Manchester and from there went on to establish N M Rothschild & Sons bank in London.\n\nDuring the early part of the 19th century, the Rothschild family's London bank took a leading part in managing and financing the subsidies that the British government transferred to its allies during the Napoleonic Wars. Through the creation of a network of agents, couriers and shippers, the bank was able to provide funds to the armies of the Duke of Wellington in Portugal and Spain, therefore funding the war. The providing of other innovative and complex financing for government projects formed a mainstay of the bank's business for the better part of the century. N. M. Rothschild & Sons' financial strength in the City of London became such that, by 1825–26, the bank was able to supply enough coin to the Bank of England to enable it to avert a liquidity crisis.\n\nNathan Mayer's eldest son, Lionel de Rothschild (1808–1879), succeeded him as head of the London branch. Under Lionel, the bank financed the British government's 1875 purchase of Egypt's interest in the Suez Canal. The Rothschild bank also funded Cecil Rhodes in the development of the British South Africa Company. Leopold de Rothschild (1845–1917) administered Rhodes's estate after his death in 1902 and helped to set up the Rhodes Scholarship scheme at the University of Oxford. In 1873, de Rothschild Frères in France and N. M. Rothschild & Sons of London joined with other investors to acquire the Spanish government's money-losing Rio Tinto copper mines. The new owners restructured the company and turned it into a profitable business. By 1905, the Rothschild interest in Rio Tinto amounted to more than 30 percent. In 1887, the French and British Rothschild banking houses loaned money to, and invested in, the De Beers diamond mines in South Africa, becoming its largest shareholders.\n\nThe London banking house continued under the management of Lionel Nathan de Rothschild (1882–1942) and his brother Anthony Gustav de Rothschild (1887–1961), and then to Sir Evelyn de Rothschild (b. 1931). In 2003, following Sir Evelyn's retirement as head of N. M. Rothschild & Sons of London, the British and French financial firms merged under the leadership of David René de Rothschild.\n\nThere are two branches of the family connected to France.\n\nThe first was the branch of James Mayer de Rothschild (1792–1868), known as \"James\", who established de Rothschild Frères in Paris. Following the Napoleonic Wars, he played a major role in financing the construction of railways and the mining business that helped make France an industrial power. By 1980, the Paris business employed about 2,000 people and had an annual turnover of 26 billion francs (€4,13 billion or $5 billion in the currency rates of 1980).\nHowever, the Paris business suffered a near death blow in 1982, when the socialist government of François Mitterrand nationalised and renamed it as Compagnie Européenne de Banque. Baron David de Rothschild, then 39, decided to stay and rebuild, creating a new entity named Rothschild & Cie Banque, with just three employees and €830,000 (USD$1 million) in capital. Today, the Paris operation has 22 partners and accounts for a significant part of the global business.\n\nEnsuing generations of the Paris Rothschild family remained involved in the family business, becoming a major force in international investment banking. The Paris Rothschilds have since led the Thomson Financial League Tables in Investment Banking Merger and Acquisition deals in the UK, France and Italy.\nJames Mayer de Rothschild's other son, Edmond James de Rothschild (1845–1934), was very much engaged in philanthropy and the arts, and he was a leading proponent of Zionism. His grandson, Baron Edmond Adolphe de Rothschild, founded in 1953 the LCF Rothschild Group, a private bank. Since 1997, Baron Benjamin de Rothschild chairs the group. The group has €100bn of assets in 2008 and owns many wine properties in France (Château Clarke, Château des Laurets), in Australia or in South Africa. In 1961, the 35-year-old Edmond Adolphe de Rothschild purchased the company Club Med, after he had visited a resort and enjoyed his stay. His interest in Club Med was sold off by the 1990s. In 1973, he bought out the Bank of California, selling his interests in 1984 before it was sold to Mitsubishi Bank in 1985.\n\nThe second French branch was founded by Nathaniel de Rothschild (1812–1870). Born in London, he was the fourth child of the founder of the British branch of the family, Nathan Mayer Rothschild (1777–1836). In 1850 Nathaniel Rothschild moved to Paris to work with his uncle James Mayer Rothschild. In 1853 Nathaniel acquired Château Brane Mouton, a vineyard in Pauillac in the Gironde \"département\". Nathaniel Rothschild renamed the estate Château Mouton Rothschild, and it would become one of the best known labels in the world. In 1868, Nathaniel's uncle, James Mayer de Rothschild, acquired the neighbouring Château Lafite vineyard.\n\nIn Vienna, Salomon Mayer Rothschild established a bank in the 1820s and the Austrian family had vast wealth and position. The crash of 1929 brought problems, and Baron Louis von Rothschild attempted to shore up the Creditanstalt, Austria's largest bank, to prevent its collapse. Nevertheless, during the Second World War they had to surrender their bank to the Nazis and flee the country. Their Rothschild palaces, a collection of vast palaces in Vienna built and owned by the family, were confiscated, plundered and destroyed by the Nazis. The palaces were famous for their sheer size and for their huge collections of paintings, armour, tapestries and statues (some of which were restored to the Rothschilds by the Austrian government in 1999). All family members escaped the Holocaust, some of them moving to the United States, and returning to Europe only after the war. In 1999, the government of Austria agreed to return to the Rothschild family some 250 art treasures looted by the Nazis and absorbed into state museums after the war.\n\nThe C M de Rothschild & Figli bank arranged substantial loans to the Papal States and to various Kings of Naples plus the Duchy of Parma and the Grand Duchy of Tuscany. However, in the 1830s, Naples followed Spain with a gradual shift away from conventional bond issues that began to affect the bank's growth and profitability. The Unification of Italy in 1861, with the ensuing decline of the Italian aristocracy who had been the Rothschild's primary clients, eventually brought about the closure of their Naples bank, due to a forecasted decline in the sustainability of the business over the long-term. However, in the early 19th century, the Rothschild family of Naples built up close relations with the Holy See, and the association between the family and the Vatican continued into the 20th century. In 1832, when Pope Gregory XVI was seen meeting Carl von Rothschild to arrange the 1832 Rothschild loan to the Holy See (for £400,000, worth €43,000,000 in 2014), observers were shocked that Rothschild was not required to kiss the Pope's feet, as was then required for all other visitors to the Pope, including monarchs. The 1906 \"Jewish Encyclopedia\" described the Rothschilds as \"the guardians of the papal treasure\".\n\nJewish solidarity in the family was not homogeneous. Many Rothschilds were supporters of Zionism, while other members of the family opposed the creation of the Jewish state. In 1917 Walter Rothschild, 2nd Baron Rothschild was the addressee of the Balfour Declaration to the Zionist Federation, which committed the British government to the establishment in Palestine of a national home for the Jewish people. His son, Victor, Lord Rothschild was against granting asylum or helping Jewish refugees in 1938.\n\nAfter the death of James Jacob de Rothschild in 1868, his eldest son Alphonse Rothschild took over the management of the family bank and was the most active in support for Eretz Israel. The Rothschild family archives show that during the 1870s the family contributed nearly 500,000 francs per year on behalf of Eastern Jewry to the Alliance Israélite Universelle. Baron Edmond James de Rothschild, youngest son of James Jacob de Rothschild, was a patron of the first settlement in Palestine at Rishon-LeZion, and bought from Ottoman landlords parts of the land which now makes up present-day Israel. In 1924, he established the Palestine Jewish Colonisation Association (PICA), which acquired more than of land and set up business ventures. In Tel Aviv, the Rothschild Boulevard is named after him, as are a number of localities throughout Israel which he assisted in founding, including Metulla, Zikhron Ya'akov, Rishon Lezion and Rosh Pina. A park in Boulogne-Billancourt, Paris, the \"Parc Edmond de Rothschild\" (Edmond de Rothschild Park), is also named after its founder. The Rothschilds also played a significant part in the funding of Israel's governmental infrastructure. James A. de Rothschild financed the Knesset building as a gift to the State of Israel and the Supreme Court of Israel building was donated to Israel by Dorothy de Rothschild. Outside the President's Chamber is displayed the letter Mrs. Rothschild wrote to the then current Prime Minister Shimon Peres expressing her intention to donate a new building for the Supreme Court.\n\nInterviewed by \"Haaretz\" in 2010, Baron Benjamin Rothschild, a Swiss-based member of the banking family, said that he supported the Israeli–Palestinian peace process: \"I understand that it is a complicated business, mainly because of the fanatics and extremists – and I am talking about both sides. I think you have fanatics in Israel. ... In general I am not in contact with politicians. I spoke once with Netanyahu. I met once with an Israeli finance minister, but the less I mingle with politicians the better I feel.\" Due to a dispute with the Israeli tax authorities, the baron refuses to visit Israel. But his wife Ariane de Rothschild often visits Israel where she manages the Caesarea Foundation. She says: \"It is insulting that the state [Israel] casts doubt on us. If there is a family that does not have to prove its commitment to Israel, it's ours.\"\n\nSince the late-19th century, the family has taken a low-key public profile, donating many famous estates, as well as vast quantities of art, to charity, and generally eschewing conspicuous displays of wealth. Today, Rothschild businesses are on a smaller scale than they were throughout the 19th century, although they encompass a diverse range of fields, including: real estate, financial services, mixed farming, energy, mining, winemaking and nonprofits.\n\nSince 2003, a group of Rothschild banks have been controlled by Rothschild Continuation Holdings, a Swiss-registered holding company (under the chairmanship of Baron David René de Rothschild). Rothschild Continuation Holdings is in turn controlled by Concordia BV, a Dutch-registered master holding company. Concordia BV is managed by Paris Orléans S.A., a French-registered holding company. Paris Orléans S.A. is ultimately controlled by Rothschild Concordia SAS, a Rothschild's family holding company. Rothschild & Cie Banque controls Rothschild banking businesses in France and continental Europe, while Rothschilds Continuation Holdings AG controls a number of Rothschild banks elsewhere, including N M Rothschild & Sons in London. Twenty percent of Rothschild Continuation Holdings AG was sold in 2005 to Jardine Strategic, which is a subsidiary of Jardine, Matheson & Co. of Hong Kong. In November 2008, Rabobank Group, the leading investment and private bank in the Netherlands, acquired 7.5% of Rothschild Continuation Holdings AG, and Rabobank and Rothschild entered into a co-operation agreement in the fields of mergers and acquisitions (M&A) advisory and equity capital markets advisory in the food and agribusiness sectors. It was believed that the move was intended to help Rothschild Continuation Holdings AG gain access to a wider capital pool, enlarging its presence in East Asian markets.\n\nParis Orléans S.A. is a financial holding company listed on Euronext Paris and controlled by the French and English branch of the Rothschild family. Paris Orléans is the flagship of the Rothschild banking Group and controls the Rothschild Group's banking activities including N M Rothschild & Sons and Rothschild & Cie Banque. It has over 2,000 employees. Directors of the company include Eric de Rothschild, Robert de Rothschild and Count Philippe de Nicolay.\n\nN M Rothschild & Sons, an English investment bank, does most of its business as an advisor for mergers and acquisitions. In 2004, the investment bank withdrew from the gold market, a commodity the Rothschild bankers had traded in for two centuries. In 2006, it ranked second in UK M&A with deals totalling $104.9 billion. In 2006, the bank recorded a pre-tax annual profit of £83.2 million with assets of £5.5 billion.\nIn 1953, one Swiss member of the family, Edmond Adolphe de Rothschild (1926–1997), founded the LCF Rothschild Group (now Edmond de Rothschild Group) which is based in Geneva, which today extends to 15 countries across the world. Although this Group is primarily a financial entity, specializing in asset management and private banking, its activities also cover mixed farming, luxury hotels and yacht racing. Edmond de Rothschild Group's committee is currently being chaired by Benjamin de Rothschild, Baron Edmond's son.\n\nIn late 2010, Baron Benjamin Rothschild said that the family had been unaffected by the financial crisis of 2007–2010, due to their conservative business practices: \"We came through it well, because our investment managers did not want to put money into crazy things.\" He added that the Rothschilds were still a small-scale, traditional family business and took greater care over their clients' investments than American companies, adding: \"The client knows we will not speculate with his money\".\n\nEdmond de Rothschild group includes these companies.\n\nIn 1980, Jacob Rothschild, 4th Baron Rothschild resigned from N M Rothschild & Sons and took independent control of Rothschild Investment Trust (now RIT Capital Partners, a British investment trust), which has reported assets of $3.4 billion in 2008. It is listed on London Stock Exchange. Lord Rothschild is also one of the major investors behind BullionVault, a gold trading platform.\n\nRIT Capital stores a significant proportion of its assets in the form of physical gold. Other assets include oil and energy-related investments.\n\nIn 1991, Jacob Rothschild, 4th Baron Rothschild founded J. Rothschild Assurance Group (now St. James's Place Wealth Management) with Sir Mark Weinberg. It is also listed on London Stock Exchange.\n\nIn 2001, the Rothschild mansion located at 18 Kensington Palace Gardens, London, was on sale for £85 million, at that time (2001) the most expensive residential property ever to go on sale in the world. It was built in marble, at 9,000 sq ft, with underground parking for 20 cars.\n\nIn December 2009, Jacob Rothschild, 4th Baron Rothschild invested $200 million of his own money in a North Sea oil company.\n\nIn January 2010, Nathaniel Philip Rothschild bought a substantial share of the Glencore mining and oil company's market capitalisation. He is also buying a large share of the aluminium mining company United Company RUSAL.\n\nDuring the 19th century, the Rothschilds controlled the Rio Tinto mining corporation, and to this day, Rothschild and Rio Tinto maintain a close business relationship.\n\nIn 2012, RIT Capital Partners announced it is to buy a 37 per cent stake in a Rockefeller family wealth advisory and asset management group. Commenting on the deal, David Rockefeller, a former patriarch of the Rockefeller family, said: \"The connection between our two families remains very strong.\"\n\nThe Rothschild family has been in the winemaking industry for 150 years. In 1853 Nathaniel de Rothschild purchased Château Brane-Mouton and renamed it Château Mouton Rothschild. In 1868, James Mayer de Rothschild purchased the neighbouring Château Lafite and renamed it Château Lafite Rothschild.\n\nToday, the Rothschild family owns many wine estates: their estates in France include Château Clarke, Château de Malengin, Château Clerc-Milon, Château d'Armailhac, Château Duhart-Milon, Château Lafite Rothschild, Château de Laversine, Château des Laurets, Château L'Évangile, Château Malmaison, Château de Montvillargenne, Château Mouton Rothschild, Château de la Muette, Château Rieussec and Château Rothschild d'Armainvilliers. They also own wine estates across North America, South America, South Africa and Australia.\n\nEspecially, Château Mouton Rothschild and Château Lafite Rothschild are classified as Premier Cru Classé—i.e., First Growth, the status referring to a classification of wines from the Bordeaux region of France.\n\nThe family once had one of the largest private art collections in the world, and a significant proportion of the art in the world's public museums are Rothschild donations which were sometimes, in the family tradition of discretion, donated anonymously.\n\nHannah Mary Rothschild was appointed in December 2014 as Chair of the Board of the National Gallery of London.\n\nIn the words of the \"Daily Telegraph\": \"This multinational banking family is a byword for wealth, power – and discretion... The Rothschild name has become synonymous with money and power to a degree that perhaps no other family has ever matched.\"\nWriting of the Rockefeller and Rothschild families, Harry Mount writes: \"That is what makes these two dynasties so exceptional – not just their dizzying wealth, but the fact that they have held on to it for so long: and not just the loot, but also their family companies.\"\n\nThe story of the Rothschild family has been featured in a number of films. The 1934 Hollywood film titled \"The House of Rothschild\", starring George Arliss and Loretta Young, recounted the life of Mayer Amschel Rothschild and Nathan Mayer Rothschild (both played by Arliss). Excerpts from this film were incorporated into the Nazi propaganda film \"Der ewige Jude\" (\"The Eternal Jew\") without the permission of the copyright holder. Another Nazi film, \"Die Rothschilds\" (also called \"Aktien auf Waterloo\"), was directed by Erich Waschneck in 1940. A Broadway musical entitled \"The Rothschilds\", covering the history of the family up to 1818, was nominated for a Tony Award in 1971. Nathaniel Mayer (\"Natty\") Rothschild, 1st Baron Rothschild appears as a minor character in the historical-mystery novel \"Stone's Fall\", by Iain Pears. Mayer Rothschild is featured in Diana Gabaldon's novel \"Voyager\" as a coin seller summoned to Le Havre by Jamie Fraser to appraise coins, prior to the establishment of the Rothschild dynasty, when Mayer is in his early 20s. The Rothschild name is mentioned by Aldous Huxley in his novel \"Brave New World\", among many names of historically affluent persons, scientific innovators and others. The character, named Morgana Rothschild, played a relatively minor role in the story. The name Rothschild used as a synonym for extreme wealth inspired the song \"If I Were a Rich Man\", which is based on a song from the Tevye the Dairyman stories, written in the Yiddish as \"Ven ikh bin Rotshild\", meaning \"If I were a Rothschild\".\n\nIn France, the word \"Rothschild\" was throughout the 19th and 20th centuries a synonym for seemingly endless wealth, neo-Gothic styles, and epicurean glamour. The family also has lent its name to \",\" a suffocatingly glamorous style of interior decoration whose elements include neo-Renaissance palaces, extravagant use of velvet and gilding, vast collections of armour and sculpture, a sense of Victorian horror vacui, and the highest masterworks of art. Le goût Rothschild has much influenced designers such as Robert Denning, Yves Saint Laurent, Vincent Fourcade and others.\nOver more than two centuries, the Rothschild family has frequently been the subject of conspiracy theories. These theories take differing forms, such as claiming that the family controls the world's wealth and financial institutions or encouraged or discouraged wars between governments. Discussing this and similar views, the historian Niall Ferguson wrote, \n\nMany conspiracy theories about the Rothschild family arise from anti-Semitic prejudice and various antisemitic canards.\n\nProminent lineal descendants of Mayer Amschel Rothschild include among many others:\n\n\nProminent marriages into the family include, among many others:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nHistory\n\nFoundations\n"}
{"id": "19896520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19896520", "title": "Samuel Mathews", "text": "Samuel Mathews\n\nLt. Col. Samuel Mathews (1630–1660), Commonwealth Governor of Virginia, of Warwick County in the English Colony of Virginia, was a member of the House of Burgesses, the Governor's Council, and served as Commonwealth Governor of Virginia from 1656 until he died in office in January, 1660 (\"1659 A.S.\"). There was no Royal Governorship at the time of the \"Protectorate\", and the Governor technically answered to the Cromwellian Parliament, although Royalist sentiment was prevalent in the colony of Virginia at this time. The former Royalist governor Berkeley arrived to replace him March 13, 1660. \n\nSamuel Mathews (Jr.) was the elder son of Samuel Matthews (Sr.) (1572-1657) and Frances Grevill West Peirsey Mathews (1590-1635). He was born at his father's plantation, Mathews Manor, later known as Denbigh, which was located on the north side of the James River at Blunt Point, the confluence of the Warwick and the James rivers in the area which later became Warwick County, Virginia (and which is now within the city limits of Newport News).\n\nThe elder Samuel Mathews was the first of the Mathews family to emigrate from England to Virginia, arriving at Jamestown by 1619. He eventually had several other land holdings, including one near Henricus and another at Old Point Comfort. Known as Colonel Mathews, the elder Samuel became one of the most prominent men in the colony. He was a member of the Governor's Council and was actively involved in conflicts with the Native Americans. In 1635, he was one of the leaders of the popular mutiny that ousted Royal Governor Sir John Harvey. Upon returning to England, the elder Mathews was eventually cleared of any charges; upon returning to Virginia, he resumed service on the Governor's Council until 1644.\n\nFrances Grevill was one of four women who arrived at Jamestown from Bristol, England in September 1620 aboard the ship, \"Supply\". She was first married to Captain Nathaniel West, brother of Thomas West, the third Lord Delaware, who had been governor of Virginia beginning in 1610. After West's death several years later, Grevill married Abraham Peirsey, a wealthy man who had purchased Sir George Yeardley's Flowerdew Hundred Plantation after his death. Peirsey died several years later. Twice widowed, but with considerable legacies, she next married Samuel Mathews.\n\nThe younger Samuel Mathews, as an adult, was known as Lt. Colonel Samuel Mathews, reflecting his standing in the local militia. In 1652, he was named to the representative House of Burgesses, which was the lower house of the legislature, on behalf of Warwick County. In 1656, he was appointed to the upper house, the Governor's Council, and later that year, became the Commonwealth Governor of Virginia, a position held until his death in January 1660.\n\nIn April 1658, mainly to signal their displeasure with Oliver Cromwell, the Burgesses ceremonially dismissed him and reelected him in a single Act. Because of his loyalty, as governor, to Cromwell, he was often assumed to be a Puritan himself, although in fact he had been known as a persecutor of the Puritan sect in Virginia in the days before Cromwell. \n\nIn January 1660, shortly before the English Restoration, Matthews died in office, and the Burgesses at that point simply reinstated the former Royalist Governor, William Berkeley by unanimous vote. Thus, in the view of historian Robert Beverley, Jr. writing in 1705, Virginia colony \"was the last of all the King's Dominions that submitted to the Usurpation, and afterwards the first that cast it off.\" \n\nHis brother Francis (1632-1673) outlived him. Governor Mathews married about 1655, but little information is known about his wife, other than some sources state she was of the Cole-Digges family. They had one son, John (b. 1659 - May 1, 1706) who married Elizabeth Tavernor on March 24, 1684. John also made his home at the Denbigh Plantation in Warwick County.\n\nGovernor Samuel Mathews was an ancestor of Virginia's Brigadier General Thomas Mathews, who was the Speaker of the Virginia House of Delegates for whom Mathews County, Virginia was named when it was formed by an Act of Assembly on May 1, 1791.\n\nThe site of Mathews Manor, located within the independent city of Newport News, Virginia, was the subject of an archeological study led by Colonial Williamsburg's Ivor Noel Hume in the 1960s, and was placed on the National Park Service's National Register of Historic Places.\n\nANTIQUES, Dec 1966, Mathews Manor, Ivor Noel Hume, p 832.\n\nAdventures of Purse and Person, 1607-1624/5, Revised and Edited by Virginia M Meyer (1974-1981), John Frederick Dorman, F.A.S.G. 1981-1987, Pub by Order of First Families of Virginia, 1607-1624/5, 3rd Edition, 1987, Dietz Press, Inc, Richmond, VA.\n\nBrochure advertising Denbigh Plantation, a housing development by L B Weber of Newport News, VA. Found in the Public Library, Williamsburg, VA.\n\nGenealogies of Virginia Families For the William & Mary College Quarterly Historical Magazine, Vol III, Gen Pub Co, Baltimore.\n\nBiographical Directory of American Colonial and Revolutionary Governors 1607-1789, John W Raimo, Meckler Books, A Division of Microform Review, 520 Riverside Ave., Westport, CT 06880\n\nGone to Texas, W Wayne Rogers, Bloomington, Ill, 1978\n\n"}
{"id": "2301231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2301231", "title": "Samuel Ndashyikirwa", "text": "Samuel Ndashyikirwa\n\nSamuel Ndashyikirwa, formerly a small businessman in Kirwa, Rwanda, was convicted in Belgium on June 29, 2005 for his role in the Rwandan genocide of 1994. Eyewitnesses testified that he had been present at massacres in Kirwa and had been directly involved with the killings, and prosecutors argued that he and his half-brother, Etienne Nzabonimana, provided vehicles, weapons, and beer for Rwandan soldiers committing genocide in the Kibungo region. Both were convicted of aiding Hutu militias in killing 50,000 Tutsis and moderate Hutus. Ndashyikirwa will serve ten years in prison, while his half-brother will serve twelve.\n\n"}
{"id": "1147402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1147402", "title": "Stratfor", "text": "Stratfor\n\nStratfor is an American geopolitical intelligence platform and publisher founded in 1996 in Austin, Texas, by George Friedman, who was the company's chairman. Chip Harmon was appointed as president in February 2018. Fred Burton is Stratfor's chief security officer.\n\nOther executives include vice president of global analysis, Reva Goujon, senior vice president of strategic analysis, Rodger Baker, former U.S. Special Operations Command officer Bret Boyd, vice president of custom intelligence services.\n\nStratfor bills itself as a geopolitical intelligence platform, with revenues derived from individual and enterprise subscriptions to Stratfor Worldview, its online publication, and from custom advisory work for corporate clients.\n\nStratfor has published a daily intelligence briefing since its inception in 1996. Its rise to prominence occurred with the release of its Kosovo Crisis Center during the 1999 NATO airstrikes over Kosovo, which led to publicity in \"Time\" magazine, \"Texas Monthly\", and other publications. Before the end of 1999, however, Stratfor had introduced a subscription service through which it offered the majority of its analyses. At the time of the September 11, 2001 attacks, Stratfor made its \"breaking news\" paragraphs, as well as some notable analyses predicting likely actions to be taken by al-Qaeda and the Bush administration, available freely to the public.\n\nStratfor's publishing business includes written and multimedia analysis available online or through an API, as well as iPhone and Android mobile applications. Stratfor Threat Lens, an enterprise level product launched in September 2016, offers specific insight and analysis to support corporate security leaders. In April 2017, the company launched its core online publication under the name Stratfor Worldview. Some of Stratfor's work remains available free to the public.\n\nStratfor has published collections of analysis in paperback and as e-books on a variety of topics. Topics include user guides to personal security, the \"devolution of jihadism,\" and the U.S. war in Afghanistan, according to a series of promotional videos on the company's YouTube channel. Apparently, at one point, the books were sold through a storefront on the company's website. Stratfor e-books and long form analyses are now available through a dedicated, on-site store.\n\nA number of the company's top analysts have published books in their own name. Notable among these are founder George Friedman and vice president for intelligence Fred Burton. Kamran Bokhari, Stratfor's former vice president for Middle East and South Asian affairs, is the author (with Farid Senzai) of \"Political Islam in the Age of Democratization\" (Palgrave Macmillan, 2013). Reviewer Amani el Sehrawey called the book \"an invaluable tool for those seeking to gain knowledge of the nuances of the political systems of the Muslim world from a historical perspective, as well as to understand the contemporary changes happening in the region.\"\n\n\"Barron's\" once referred to Stratfor as \"The Shadow CIA\". Barrons' Jonathan Laing has called Friedman \"one of our favorite experts on geopolitics,\" saying, \"His judgments tend to be more nuanced and long-term than those of the press or Wall Street.\" More recently, \"The Atlantic\"'s James Fallows referenced a Stratfor article on U.S. strategy in Iraq and Ukraine, following outbreaks of turmoil in those regions.\n\nFriedman resigned from the company in 2015 to launch a new company, Geopolitical Futures.\n\nThe member and client list for Stratfor is confidential, but the company says it includes Fortune 500 companies, universities and international government agencies as well as professionals who purchase an individual membership. \n\nIn October 2015, Stratfor raised $12-million in funding through a growth equity investment by Dallas-based Teakwood Capital. Stratfor's plan for the funding includes expanding its intelligence networks, enhancing operational infrastructure and moving into frontier markets.\n\nIn October 2017, Stratfor sponsored the 2017 Texas National Security Forum organized by Clements Center for National Security, the Robert Strauss Center for International Security and Law, and the Intelligence Studies Project at The University of Texas at Austin. The theme was \"Alliances and Partnerships in American National Security.\" The event included a keynote address by Michael Pompeo, then director of the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency and later U.S. Secretary of State. Stratfor Chief Security Officer Fred Burton moderated a panel that included former Acting Director of Central Intelligence John McLaughlin and former Acting Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency David Shedd.\n\nIt was reported on December 24, 2011 that members of Anonymous had stolen e-mail messages from Stratfor's website. In November 2013, computer hacker Jeremy Hammond was sentenced to ten years in federal prison for his role in the Anonymous attack. An FBI informant, Hector Xavier Monsegur (also known as \"Sabu\"), initially faced 124 years in prison for his role in the attack, but his sentence was reduced to time served plus one year's supervised release in May 2014 in exchange for his cooperation as an FBI informant.\nWikiLeaks announced the initial publication of more than five million of Stratfor's e-mail messages on February 26, 2012. Anonymous claimed to have provided WikiLeaks with the data. \nGeorge Friedman stated that third parties may have forged or altered the e-mail messages, but that Stratfor would not validate either alterations or authenticity.\nStratfor condemned the release as \"deplorable\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7651497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7651497", "title": "Stuyvesant Wainwright", "text": "Stuyvesant Wainwright\n\nStuyvesant Wainwright II (March 16, 1921 – March 6, 2010) was a Republican member of the United States House of Representatives from New York.\n\nWainwright was born in New York City, the son of Carroll Livingston Wainwright (1899–1967) and Edith Catherine Gould (d. 1937), daughter of financier George Jay Gould (1864-1923) and Edith M. Kingdon (1864-1921). His siblings were Carroll L. Wainwright Jr. (1925–2016) and Caroline Wainwright (d. 1969), and his paternal grandparents were Stuyvesant Wainwright (d. 1975) and Caroline Smith Snowden. His grandmother later married Carl F. Wolff. He was a great-nephew of General Jonathan Mayhew Wainwright (1883–1953), a four star-general who was the hero of Bataan and commander of the U.S. forces in the Philippines during World War II. His uncle, Loudon Wainwright, was the father of Loudon Wainwright Jr. (his cousin), and the grandfather of Loudon Wainwright III, the singer and songwriter, himself the father of Rufus Wainwright, Martha Wainwright, and Lucy Wainwright Roche.\n\nIn 1927, his family moved to East Hampton, New York where they built an imposing house called \"Gulf Crest,\" that was valued at $350,000 in 1937. His parents divorced in 1932 and his mother married Sir Hector MacNeal, the Scottish shipowner. He attended the Westminster School, Simsbury, Connecticut and, later, graduated from Yale Law School in 1947.\n\nOn January 30, 1942, at the age of 20, he left Yale and enlisted as a private in the United States Army. He attended officers candidate school and on December 30, 1943, went overseas during World War II. He rose through the ranks, and was commanding officer of Office of Strategic Services, a wartime intelligence agency during World War II that was a predecessor of the modern Central Intelligence Agency. He returned to the U.S. on June 10, 1945, and spent the last three months of his service as adviser on intelligence coordination in the War Department in Washington, D.C. He was honorably discharged as a Captain from the Army on December 13, 1945. After the War, he served in the Active Army Reserve, and retired as a Lieutenant Colonel in 1960.\n\nHe resumed his legal studies at Yale, graduated in 1947, was admitted to the New York State Bar in 1948, and began practicing in New York City, where he was a partner in the firm of Walker, Beale, Wainwright & Wolf.\n\nIn 1952, he was elected to Congress in the Republican wave that flipped the House, Senate and Presidency from Democrat to Republican. Wainwright went on to serve three consecutive terms as the Representative for New York's 1st congressional district from January 3, 1953 until January 3, 1961, in the 83rd, 84th, and 85th United States Congresses.\n\nWhile serving in Congress, he was a member of the House Armed Services Committee, Foreign Affairs Committee, the Education and Labor Committee and the Merchant Marine Committee.\n\nHe narrowly lost a re-election bid in 1960 against Democrat Otis G. Pike.\n\nAfter leaving the House of Representatives, he taught political science at Rutgers University from 1960 to 1961. Afterwards, he resumed the practice of law with the firm Battle, Fowler, Lidstone, Jaffin, Pierce & Kheel. From 1975 until 1979, he was president of the Miltope Corporation, and a director of the Corporation from 1975-1985.\n\nIn 1941, Wainwright was married to Janet Isabel Parsons (1920–2000), the daughter of Thomas Crouse Parsons. Before their divorce, they were the parents of:\n\n\nUntil his death he was a resident of Wainscott, New York and lived on Georgica Pond. a census-designated place that roughly corresponds to the hamlet with the same name in the Town of East Hampton in Suffolk County, New York, on the South Fork of Long Island.\n\nHe served on the Boards of the Southampton Hospital, Guild Hall of East Hampton, the vestry of St. Luke's Church in East Hampton, the Maidstone Club of East Hampton and the Union Club of the City of New York. He was also a member of Cruising Club of America and Royal Bermuda Yacht Club.\n\n"}
{"id": "13960866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13960866", "title": "The RAND Journal of Economics", "text": "The RAND Journal of Economics\n\nThe RAND Journal of Economics (usually called Rand Journal or simply Rand ) is a peer-reviewed scholarly journal of economics published quarterly by Wiley-Blackwell on behalf of the RAND Corporation.\n\nThe journal's purpose is \"to support and encourage research in the behavior of regulated industries, the economic analysis of organizations, and more generally, applied microeconomics\". It publishes both theoretical and empirical papers. According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2016 impact factor of 1.465, ranking it 98th out of 347 journals in the category \"Economics\".\n\nAT&T's Bell Labs economics group launched the journal in the spring of 1970 with the name The Bell Journal of Economics and Management Science. From 1975–1983 it was titled The Bell Journal of Economics. In 1984, after transfer to the RAND Corporation, it acquired its present name.\n"}
{"id": "46981170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46981170", "title": "Whitfield family of the United States", "text": "Whitfield family of the United States\n\nThe Whitfield family was a prominent slave-owning American political family of the Southern states, and of the Northern United States having established https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Henry_Whitfield_House the Henry Whitfield House in 1639 in the town of Guilford, Connecticut. Historically, it is Connecticut's oldest house. The house, with its massive stone walls, also served as a fort to protect the community Henry Whitfield, for whom the house was built, was a Puritan minister who had come from England to flee religious persecution The house was remodeled in 1868 and opened to the public in 1899 as the first museum of the State of Connecticut, the Henry Whitfield State Museum. The house was restored in 1902–04 and in the 1930s and was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1997. It was named a State Archeological Preserve in 2006.\n\nIn the Southern States, the Whitfields formed the American branch of the British Whitfield family - having descended from the British aristocracy, particularly the Earls of Kilmorey and having established colonial residency under Sir. Thomas Whitfield, whom headed East India Trading for the British Empire. In early days of Colonial America, the family emigrated to Virginia in the seventeenth century, particularly, Nansemond County, Virginia from Lancashire, England.\n\nThe family produced many United States Congressmen, Senators and Governors, as well as businessmen and military generals active from the American Revolutionary War and past the American Civil War, with significance during the antebellum period. The family is most connected to the U.S. State of North Carolina, but had extended land ownership, slave trade, business activities and public service to Louisiana, Alabama, Kentucky, Mississippi and Florida.\n\nBorn in Lancashire, England, patriarch William Whitfield I moved to Nansemond County, Virginia. In 1770, Whitfield, along with his wife, were killed by the Tuscarora Indians. His son, William Whitfield II purchased Seven Springs, North Carolina from Buckskin Williams, the father of Benjamin Williams, the Governor of North Carolina. During the American Revolutionary War, he served as a Captain of the 6th Virginia Regiment, along with his sons, Needham Whitfield and William Whitfield III who were in the Battle of Moore's Creek Bridge during the revolutionary war. The former was a clerk to Colonel Richard Caswell and the other a private in the Light Horse Cavalry, taking prisoner General McDonald, who was the Commander of the Tories.\n\nWhitfield II was a Dobbs County member to the 1761 and 1762 North Carolina General Assembly held in Wilmington. In 1779 he was a member of Governor Richard Caswell's Council held in New Berne, and a Justice of Peace for Johnston County, North Carolina. He was later a Colonel. Whitfield III in turn, was also appointed Justice of the Peace for Dobbs County in 1778. Along with his son, he was a Director and Trustee for designing and building the town of Wanesboro. He had 29 children and forty of his descendants served in the confederate army during the American Civil war.\n\nThis included, Nathan Bryan Whitfield, William III's nephew, who became the Counselor of State for the State of North Carolina and was a State Senator. He was later commissioned to Major General rank to succeed his father for the militia. His son, Dr. Bryan Watkins Whitfield, was pardoned by U.S. President Andrew Johnson on September 12, 1865. Gaineswood, which still stands today, was the most significant remaining examples of Greek Revival architecture in Alabama. was designed and built by Whitfield, beginning in 1843 as an open-hall log dwelling. Whitfield is known to have designed most of the house from pattern books by James Stuart, Minard Lafever, Nicholas Revett and others. Much of the work on the house was executed by highly skilled artisan slaves. Whitfield moved from North Carolina to Marengo County, Alabama in 1834. In 1842 Whitfield bought the property from George Strother Gaines, younger brother of Edmund P. Gaines.\nMuch of the work on the house was executed by highly skilled artisan slaves. The grounds had been the site of a notable historic event while owned by George Gaines. When Gaines was serving as the US Indian Agent, he is said to have met with the famous chief Pushmataha, of the Choctaw Nation, under an old post oak tree on what would become the Gaineswood estate. They were negotiating the terms of the treaty that would lead to the Choctaw removal to Indian Territory. The tree became known as the Pushmataha Oak.\n\nWhitfield first named the estate Marlmont in 1843; he renamed it Gaineswood in 1856 in honor of Gaines. The Whitfield family tradition maintained that Gaines' original log house was the nucleus around which Whitfield had the mansion built, and that it was located at the present site of the south entrance hall and office. Gen. Whitfield sold the house to his son, Dr. Bryan Watkins Whitfield, in 1861. The second generation of Whitfields maintained Gaineswood as a residence. Mary Foscue Whitfield inherited the nearby Foscue-Whitfield House in 1861 upon her father's death and used that as a residence as well. For later descendants, post Civil War, the lands and plantations were sold.\n\n\n\n\n"}
