{"id": "2873908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2873908", "title": "American Indian Defense Association", "text": "American Indian Defense Association\n\nThe American Indian Defense Association (AIDA) was an organization founded in 1923 by social worker John Collier, that fought to protect religious freedom and tribal property for Native Americans in the United States.\n\nIn the 1920s Antonio Luhan a member of the Taos Pueblo showed John Collier the poor living conditions in American Indian communities. In response to what he saw, Collier founded the American Indian Defense Association. For the next decade Collier headed Indian reform efforts, and in 1933 President Franklin D. Roosevelt appointed Collier as the new commissioner of Indian Affairs. Almost immediately Collier tried to change the government's direction by revitalizing American Indian life and culture.\n\nAIDA was also set up in response to the 1921 and 1923 Leavitt Bill, also known as the Dance Order. This bill threatened to remove the right of Pueblo Indians to perform some of their traditional dances in New Mexico. The Bursum Bill of 1922 also posed a threat as it would authorize the acquisition of Pueblo lands. However, AIDA was able to block both bills successfully.\n\nAmerican Indians culture had been stripped away by measures like the Dawes Act, which had ended tribal government and authorized the sale of tribal land to individuals. Between the years 1887 (the year the Dawes Act came into effect) and 1934 (known as the \"Allotment era\") the government took over of tribal lands that were previously guaranteed to tribes by treaties and federal law. Henry Dawes who authored the Dawes Act, was quoted as saying that to be civilized, one must \"wear civilized clothes...cultivate the ground, live in houses, ride in Studebaker wagons, send children to school, drink whiskey and own property.\"\n\nAntonio Luhan described how government policies and the Bureau of Indian Affairs commissioners who enforced them overwhelmed American Indian culture,\n\nTo put these reform ideas into law, the United States Congress passed the Indian Reorganization Act of 1934, which reversed the Dawes Act policy, and as described in section 3 of that act it was to \"restore to tribal ownership the remaining surplus lands of any Indian reservation heretofore opened, or authorized to be opened, to sale, or any other form of disposal by Presidential proclamation, or by any of the public land laws of the United States\". The Act provided funds to start tribal business ventures and to pay for the college education of young American Indians. The allotment process was halted and further losses of Indian land were halted. Tribes were encouraged to create strong tribal governments. Tribes were given the right to form constitutions, have self-government, and to form tribal corporations. A program to provide federal loan money for college and/or vocational school expenses was begun.\n\nCritics of the American Indian Defense Association complained that Collier had not obtained enough input from the tribes themselves in formulating policies, and that the programs decreased the power of women in some tribes. Still, two-thirds of the nation's American Indians tribes voted to participate in the new programs.\n"}
{"id": "17747196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17747196", "title": "Appeal as from an abuse", "text": "Appeal as from an abuse\n\n\"Appeal as from an abuse\" (French \"appel comme d'abus\") is a legal term applied in the canon law of the Roman Catholic Church, meaning originally a legal appeal as recourse to the civil forum (court) against the usurpation by the ecclesiastical forum of the rights of civil jurisdiction. It could mean (\"vice versa\") a recourse to the ecclesiastical forum against the usurpation by the civil forum of the rights of ecclesiastical jurisdiction. \n\nThus defined, the \"appeal as from an abuse\" had as its object was to safeguard equally the rights both of the State and of the Church. An abuse would be an act on either hand, without due authority, beyond the limits of their respective ordinary and natural jurisdictions. In practice the use of such appeals was important, historically, as a way to undermine the power of church courts.\n\nThe canons did not exclude a recourse to the civil authority when the acts of an ecclesiastical judge invaded the domain of the civil authority, especially as reciprocity gave the ecclesiastical authority the right to repel with the same weapons any usurpation by the lay judge to the damage of the rights of the Church. Thus also a recourse to the supreme civil ruler was not deemed amiss when an ecclesiastical court undertook a cause belonging to the competency of a higher ecclesiastical court, and the ruler was asked merely to forward it to the proper tribunal without, however, claiming to delegate to it any jurisdiction. Perhaps the first formal manifestation of this appeal in the legitimate sense occurred in the fourteenth century.\n\nEcclesiastical judges acquired a reputation for learning and equity, and by the good will of the State, not merely ecclesiastical, but many civil cases of the laity were adjudicated by them. in 1329 complaint was brought to King Philip de Valois by the advocate general, Peter de Cugnières, that the civil tribunals were fast lapsing into contempt, and were being abandoned. The purport of the complaint was to restrict the competency of the ecclesiastical tribunals to their own legitimate fields. Bickerings between the two forums were henceforth frequent. Even the Catholic states, after the beginning of the sixteenth century, advanced far in the way of frequent ruptures with the Church.\n\nWhen the Protestant states had acquired control and supervision over the newly reformed bodies even in their spiritual relations, the Catholic states, particularly France, strove to limit the jurisdiction of the Church as far as they could without casting aside the profession of the Catholic Faith. The Pragmatic Sanction was a serious aggression by France upon the acknowledged rights of the Church and of the Holy See. It is in France that we find the most flagrant series of encroachments upon Church jurisdiction, through pretence of appeals as from an abuse, gradually tending to the elimination of the ecclesiastical forum. \n\nDuring the seventeenth century the French clergy presented frequent memorials against the encroachments made by their kings and parliaments through constant recourse to these \"appeals as from an abuse\", which resulted in submitting to civil tribunals questions of definitions of faith, the proper administration of the sacraments, and the like. This brought confusion into the regulation of spiritual matters by encouraging ecclesiastics to rebel against their lawful ecclesiastical superiors. The lay tribunals undertook to adjudicate whether the ministers of the sacraments had a right to refuse them to those deemed unworthy, or the right to Christian burial of Catholics dying impenitent or under Church censures; whether interdicts or suspensions were valid; whether monastic professions should be annulled; whether the bishop's permission was necessary for preaching; whether a specified marriage was contrary or not to the Gospel; and also to decide the justice of canonical privations of benefices. Many other subjects intimately connected with the teaching of the Church were brought before lay tribunals, and unappealable decisions rendered in open contradiction to the canons, as can easily be surmised both from the absence of theological knowledge, and from the visible animus shown in decisions that undertook to subject the spiritual power of the Church to the dictates of transient politics. \n\nInterference was mostly owing to courtier-canonists who flattered the secular rulers by dwelling upon the right of protection over the Church conceded in early days to the Christian Roman Emperors. The Church was recognized as autonomous in all things of the divine law and in matters of ecclesiastical discipline. When rulers like Charlemagne seemed to take upon themselves undue authority, insisting upon certain canons, the bishops claimed their sole right to govern the Church. Even in mixed assemblies of bishops and nobles and princes, the bishops insisted that the civil power should not encroach upon the rights of the Church, e. g. in the Council of Narbonne (788). \n\nZaccaria recognized, however, that in his day (the eighteenth century), as well as in former ages, the Catholic rulers of Catholic States, in their quality of protectors of the Church, might receive a recourse from ecclesiastics in ecclesiastical matters, in order that justice might be done them by their ordinary ecclesiastical judges, not as deputies of the civil rulers, but as ordinary judges in their own forum. In her concordats with Catholic states the Catholic Church granted to several that the civil cases of clerics, and such as concern the property and temporal rights of churches, as well as benefices and other ecclesiastical foundations, may be brought before the civil courts.\n\nAll ecclesiastical causes, and those that concern the Faith, sacraments, morals, sacred functions, and rights connected with the sacred ministry, belong to the ecclesiastical forum, both in regard of persons and of matter. In the United States, as decreed by the Council of Baltimore (1837), the church law is that if any ecclesiastical person or member of a religious body, male or female, should cite an ecclesiastic or a religious before a civil court on a question of a purely ecclesiastical nature, he should know that he falls under the censures decreed by canon law. \n\nThe Congregation of Propaganda in its comment explained that, in mixed cases, where the persons may be ecclesiastical, but the things about which there is question may be temporal or of one's household, this rule cannot be enforced, especially in countries in which the civil government is not in the hands of Catholics, and where, unless recourse is had to the civil courts, there is not the means or the power of enforcing an ecclesiastical decision for the protection or recovery of one's own. A special proviso was made by Propaganda for the United States, that if a priest should bring a cleric before a civil tribunal on an ecclesiastical or other question without permission from the bishop he could be forced to withdraw the case by the infliction of penalties and censures, yet the bishop must not refuse the permission if the parties have ineffectually attempted a settlement before him. If the bishop is to be cited, the permission of the Holy See is required. \n\nBy a special declaration of Propaganda, a cleric's transfer of a claim to a layman for the purpose of evading the censures is checked by the requirement of the consent of the bishop to such transfer, if made for the purpose of the suit. Justice Redfield says in reference to the United States generally: \"The decision of ecclesiastical courts or officers having, by the rules or laws of the bodies to which they belong, jurisdiction of such questions, or the right to decide them, will be held conclusive in all courts of the civil administration, and no question involved in such decisions will be revised or reviewed in the civil courts, except those pertaining to the jurisdiction of such courts or officers to determine such questions according to the laws or the usage of the bodies they represent.\" Justice Strong, of the Supreme Court of the United States, speaks of the Church as \"an interior organization within a religious society\", and adds, \"I think it may be safely asserted as a general principle that whenever questions of discipline, of faith, of Church rule, of membership, or of office, have been decided by the Church, in its own modes of decision, civil law tribunals accept these decisions as final and apply them as made.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3604295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3604295", "title": "Assembly of Notables", "text": "Assembly of Notables\n\nAn Assembly of Notables (French: \"Assemblée des notables\") was a group of high-ranking nobles, ecclesiastics, and state functionaries convened by the King of France on extraordinary occasions to consult on matters of state.\n\nAssemblies of Notables had met in 1583, 1596–97, 1617, 1626, 1787, and 1788. Like the Estates-General, they served a consultative purpose only. But unlike the Estates-General, whose members were elected by the subjects of the realm, the assemblymen were selected by the king for their \"zeal\", \"devotion\", and their \"trustworthiness\" toward the sovereign. Assemblymen were prominent men, usually of the aristocracy, and included royal princes, peers, archbishops, high-ranking judges, and, in some cases, major town officials. The king would issue one or more reforming edicts after hearing their advice. \n\nIn addition, assembly of notables can refer to an expanded version of the King's Council (\"Curia regis\"). Several times a year, whenever the king needed to cast a wider net to gather information for making important decisions or preparing edicts and ordinances, he would enlarge his Council with prominent men chosen for their social and professional standing or their skills to give counsel on the matters at hand. The role of the assembly was to advise the king on how to remedy governance issues brought up by the Estates-General.\n\nIn November 1583, Henry III convened an assembly of notables at Saint Germain-en-Laye to address religious demonstrations that threatened the collapse of the State. In the assembly, Charles, Cardinal de Bourbon called for a religious monopoly in France; he said that if this was offered, the clergy would sell their shirts to support the king. Henry, however, angrily interrupted him, knowing the origin of that hostile demand; any attempt to impose one religion was unthinkable while Anjou remained attached to the Netherlands. Henry replied that he had already risked his life and estate to establish a single religion, but since he had been forced to sue for peace, he would not breach it.\n\nFollowing the regicide of Henry III, his successor was Henry IV who learned from the experience of Henry III. He himself had called on the assembly's assistance in 1596–97 at Rouen. The assemblymen were summoned to assist in developing and authorizing new taxation plans for the country to tackle the debt. There were 95 notables present, and they recommended that the king levy a special sales tax of 5% on all sales—with the exception of wheat, to avoid bread riots. It was estimated that this \"pancarte\" would raise 5 million French pounds (\"livres\"), but in its best year it raised only 1.56 million pounds. Although the tax raised less than predicted, it did restore the royal budget to solvency. King Henry and the Duke of Sully had come up with many other possible ways to raise money, but the key to rescuing the monarchy from bankruptcy was simply to ensure that the system of taxation worked efficiently.\n\nIn 1626 Louis XIII called together an assembly consisting of the government's ruling elite—13 grandees, 13 bishops, and 29 judges. Many historians have regarded this assembly, and its predecessors, as unsuccessful because they failed to enact specific reforms, but this view fails to consider the assemblies' role. The assemblies had no legislative or administrative powers; instead, they served to provide considered advice on government reform proposals and to make appropriate counter-proposals. In the case of every successful assembly, the king himself would issue a major ordinance or enact significant reforms, most notably the Edict of Blois 1579, in response to the Estates-General of 1576, and the great Code Michau 1629, in response to the Assembly of Notables of 1626–27.\n\nThe king and the notables agreed on four basic changes in French government. First, they agreed that Protestant power had to be broken. There was no specific discussion of a march on La Rochelle, but the notables firmly supported the king's desire to destroy the network of independent Huguenot fortresses. Second, the notables, like those of 1596 and 1617, strongly criticized the grandees, particularly provincial governors. In 1626–27, the notables insisted in particular that the king should regain full control of the military. Third, everyone agreed that the basic administration of the kingdom lay in disarray, so that a strong statement from the central government was needed to reestablish order. In most cases, this reaffirmation of government control required only the restatement of pre-existing ordinances. Fourth, everyone agreed that the fiscal situation was catastrophic. The overwhelming majority of the assembly's deliberations focused on this last issue.\n\nThe final appearance of the Assembly of Notables began in February 1787 during Louis XVI's reign, during which France’s finances were in a desperate situation and the finance ministers of the day (Turgot, Necker, Calonne) all believed that tax reform was necessary if France was going to pay off its debt and bring government expenditure back into line with government income. However, before any new tax laws could be passed, they first had to be registered with the French \"parlements\" (which were high courts, not legislatures, but that possessed a limited veto power on new laws).\n\nRepeated attempts to implement tax reform failed due to lack of \"parlement\" support, as \"parlement\" judges felt that any increase in tax would have a direct negative effect on their own income. In response to this opposition, the finance minister at the time, Calonne, suggested that Louis XVI call an Assembly of Notables. While the Assembly of Notables had no legislative power in its own right, Calonne hoped that if the Assembly of Notables could be made to support the proposed reforms then this would apply pressure on parlement to register them. \n\nCalonne proposed four major reforms:\n\nIn the traditional view, the plan failed because the 144 assemblymen, who included princes of the blood, archbishops, noblemen and other people from the traditional elite, did not wish to bear the burden of increased taxation. \n\nHowever, Simon Schama has argued that the notables in fact were quite open to radical political changes; for example, some proposed the elimination of \"all\" the tax exemptions conferred by noble status; others proposed \"lowering\" the income qualifications for voting for members of the proposed provincial assemblies. Schama wrote:\nYet what was truly astonishing about the debates of the Assembly is that they were marked by a conspicuous acceptance of principles like fiscal equality that even a few years before would have been unthinkable...Where disagreement occurred, it was not because Calonne had shocked the Notables with his announcement of a new fiscal and political world; it was either because he had not gone far enough or because they disliked the operational methods built into the program.\n\nIn addition, the Assembly insisted that the proposed reforms should actually be presented to a representative body such as the Estates-General.\n\nOpposition in the Assembly combined with intrigues from rival ministers led to Calonne's disgrace and he was subsequently dismissed by Louis XVI on 8 April 1787. In addition to tax reform, the Assembly also discussed other issues. The result was that the Assembly assisted the Parliament in creating provincial assemblies, reestablished free trade in grain, converted the \"corvée\" (a feudal duty in the form of forced labour) into a cash payment, and generated short-term loans.\n\nCalonne's successor, Loménie de Brienne, dissolved the body on 25 May.\n\n"}
{"id": "9171597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9171597", "title": "Attorney misconduct", "text": "Attorney misconduct\n\nAttorney misconduct is unethical or illegal conduct by an attorney. Attorney Misconduct may include: conflict of interest, over billing, refusing to represent a client for political or professional motives, false or misleading statements, hiding evidence, abandoning a client, failing to disclose all relevant facts, arguing a position while neglecting to disclose prior law which might counter the argument, and\" in some instances\" having sex with a client.\n\nThe advent of electronic record keeping and \"e-discovery\" has also resulted in a record number of attorney sanctions for a range of abuses from failure to produce to the leaking of sealed documents. In a case highlighting such abuses, in 2007 plaintiff's in a pharmaceutical lawsuit were found to conspire with attorneys and journalists to publicize protected discovery documents defying a judge's protective order.\n\nAs the Durham County, North Carolina prosecutor, Mike Nifong, gained national infamy for a pattern of attorney misconduct related to the 2006 Duke University lacrosse team scandal.\n\nLegal malpractice is a separate concept such as when an attorney fails to adequately, professionally, competently, or zealously represent a client. While malpractice and misconduct may often be found in the same matter, they are separate concepts and need not both exist.\n\nThe American Bar Association (ABA) has established model rules of professional conduct expected of attorneys, which most states in the U.S. have incorporated as part of their state laws. Each state issues its own set of rules governing the ethical rules and the related enforcement of those rules, generally through their state bar associations. As the state bar organizations and their enforcement mechanisms are composed of lawyers who set the rules, the regulation of attorney ethics is self regulated and self policed. The self-regulation of any industry by its economic participants poses an inherent conflict of interest between the professional objectives of the members of the profession and those for whom the regulation would protect. Some academic researchers and industry pundits have asserted that attorney discipline in the U.S. is ineffective, and favors lawyers and law firms.\n\nIndividual lawyers or their firms may be cited for misconduct by a judge in the originating proceedings or by a corresponding state bar.\n\n"}
{"id": "21852905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21852905", "title": "Automobile products liability", "text": "Automobile products liability\n\nWhen a person makes a claim for personal injury damages that have resulted from the presence of a defective automobile or component of an automobile, that person asserts a product liability claim. That claim may be against the automobile's manufacturer, the manufacturer of a component part or system, or both, as well as potentially being raised against companies that distributed, sold or installed the part or system that is alleged to be defective.\n\nA major foundation for modern awareness of the defects found in automobiles was laid when Ralph Nader published his book \"Unsafe at Any Speed\" about the Chevrolet Corvair and defects found in other vehicles. A focus of this book was the car manufacturers' intentional choice of saving a few dollars for each car instead of providing safe design and manufacture of their products, as well as avoiding the adding of devices which would protect car occupants from injury.\n\nThe Ford Pinto gas tank cases present another instance of saving money at the cost of serious injury to consumers. In \"Grimshaw v Ford\", the California Court of Appeal upheld a jury verdict of $2.5 million in compensatory damages and $125 million in punitive damages (reduced to $3.5 million by the trial court as a condition of denying a motion for new trial). The jury found that Ford Motor Company had known about the unsafe design of the gas tank used in the Pinto, and that this design was an intentional choice by Ford which decided to use a cheaper design which knowingly greatly increased the risk of fire in a rear-impact accident, rather than a more expensive design which would have prevented the death of an occupant.\n\nThe National Transportation Safety has recognized the danger of rollovers, and the prevalence of rollovers as a result of the defect created by the design of many SUVs. NHTSA has actively campaigned against this design defect and has adopted and promoted its rollover safety and vehicle safety ratings, and has actively promoted the adoption of electronic stability control systems.\n\nRoof pillars may appear strong to the average consumer, but many of them are constructed only of sheet metal that is hollow on the inside at the cross sections. Designs exist to reinforce these pillars at little additional cost. Vehicle design is supposed to depend on a structural support system that creates a \"survival space\" that protects car occupants in a crash from injury due to roof crush. A weak roof makes a vehicle defective, and roof crushes can cause serious injuries. In 1973, the government passed Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 216, creating a standard roof strength test to measure the integrity of roof structure in motor vehicles. Despite federal standards, some vehicle roofs may crush by a foot or more during a rollover accident.\n\nAmong the problems with design or manufacture that may give rise to an automobile product liability claim are the following:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "361354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=361354", "title": "Ballot access", "text": "Ballot access\n\nBallot access rules, called nomination rules outside the United States, regulate the conditions under which a candidate or political party is entitled either to stand for election or to appear on voters' ballots. The criteria to stand as a candidate depend on the individual legal system, however they may include the age of a candidate, citizenship, endorsement by a political party and profession.\n\nEach U.S. State has its own ballot access laws to determine who may appear on ballots. According to the Elections Clause in Article I, Section 4, of the United States Constitution, the authority to regulate the time, place, and manner of federal elections is up to each State, unless Congress legislates otherwise.\n\nThe primary argument put forward by States for restricting ballot access has been the presumption that setting ballot access criteria too low would result in numerous candidates on the ballot, splitting the votes of similar minded voters. Example: With plurality voting, also known as First past the post, the candidate with the most votes wins, even if the candidate does not have a majority of the votes. Suppose 55% Belief A and 45% Belief B vote in a district. If two candidates appeal to A, but only one appeals to B, the votes of A could split between the two A candidates, say 25% vote for one and 30% for the other, giving the B candidate the office although 55% preferred to see an A candidate in the office. However, proponents of ballot access reform say that reasonably easy access to the ballot does not lead to a glut of candidates, even where many candidates do appear on the ballot. The 1880s reform movement that led to officially designed secret ballots, such as the Australian ballot, had some salutary effects, but it also gave the government control over who could be on the ballot. As historian Peter Argersinger has pointed out, the reform that empowered officials to regulate access onto the ballot, also carried the danger that this power would be abused by officialdom and that legislatures controlled by established political parties, would enact restrictive ballot access laws to ensure re-election of their party's candidates.\n\nPerhaps the most prominent advocate of the 1880s ballot reform movement, Dean Wigmore, suggested that \"ten signatures\" might be an appropriate requirement for nomination to the official ballot for a legislative office. In the 20th century, ballot access laws imposing signature requirements far more restrictive than Wigmore had envisioned were enacted by many state legislatures; in many cases, the two major parties wrote the laws such that the burdens created by these new ballot access requirements (usually in the form of difficult signature-gathering nominating petition drives) fell on alternative candidates, but not on major party candidates. Proponents of more open ballot access argue that restricting ballot access has the effect of unjustly restricting the choices available to voters, and typically disadvantages third party candidates and other candidates who are not affiliated with the established parties.\n\nPresident George H. W. Bush signed the Copenhagen Document of the Helsinki Accords that states in part:\n\nThe Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) has criticized the United States for its ballot access laws. In 1996, United States delegates responded to the criticism by saying that unfair ballot access \"could be remedied through existing appeal and regulatory structures and did not represent a breach of the Copenhagen commitments.\" The OSCE published a report on the 2004 United States election, which among other things, noted restrictive ballot access laws.\n\nBallot access laws in the United States vary widely from state to state:\n\n\nState ballot access restrictions can affect fundamental constitutional rights, including:\n\nIt has also been argued that ballot access restrictions infringe the following constitutional rights:\n\nThe US Supreme Court precedent on ballot access laws cases has been conflicting. In \"Williams v. Rhodes\" (1969) the court struck down Ohio's ballot access laws on First and Fourteenth Amendment grounds. During the 1970s the Supreme Court upheld strict ballot access laws, with a 'compelling State interest' being the \"preservation of the integrity of the electoral process and regulating the number of candidates on the ballot to avoid voter confusion.\"\n\nThe Supreme Court did strike down provisions in a ballot access law in Anderson v. Celebrezze,' 460 U.S. 780 (1983), but most of the subsequent court rulings in the 1980s–2000s continued to uphold ballot access laws in both primary and general elections. Among the most notable of these cases from the 1970s–1990s:\n\nThe Supreme Court has not expressly ruled on the maximum level of restrictions that can be imposed on an otherwise qualified candidate or political party seeking ballot access. As a result, lower courts have often reached difficult conclusions about whether a particular ballot access rule is unconstitutional.\n\nRequiring an otherwise eligible candidate or political party to obtain signatures greater than 5% of the eligible voters in the previous election may be unconstitutional. This is based on \"Jenness v. Fortson,\" 403 U.S. 431 (1971); the court upheld a restrictive ballot access law with this 5% signature requirement, whereas the \"Williams v. Rhodes\" (1969) had involved a 15% signature requirement. Most State ballot access requirements, even the more restrictive ones, are less than 5%, and the Supreme Court has generally refused to hear ballot access cases that involved an Independent or minor party candidate challenging a ballot access law that requires less than 5%.\n\nInternational agreements that have the status of treaties of the US are part of the supreme law of the land, under Article VI of the United States Constitution:\n\nAnother source of international human rights law derives from universally accepted norms that have found expression in resolutions of the U.N. General Assembly. Although the Universal Declaration of Human Rights is not binding under US law the way a treaty is, this type of norm is recognized as a source of international law in such treaties as the Statute of the International Court of Justice, to which the US is a party:\n\nDepending on the office and the state, it may be possible for a voter to cast a write-in vote for a candidate whose name does not appear on the ballot. It is extremely rare for such a candidate to win office. In some cases, write-in votes are simply not counted. Having one's name printed on the ballot confers an enormous advantage over candidates who are not on the ballot. The US Supreme Court has noted that write-in status is absolutely no substitute for being on the ballot.\n\nThe two most notable cases of write-in candidates actually winning are the elections of Lisa Murkowski in 2010 and Strom Thurmond in 1954, both to the United States Senate. Other cases include the election of Charlotte Burks to the Tennessee State Senate seat of her late husband, Tommy Burks, murdered by his only opponent on the ballot; and the write-in primary victories in the re-election campaign of Mayor Anthony A. Williams of the District of Columbia. All of these cases involved unique political circumstances, a popular and well–known candidate, and a highly organized and well–funded write-in education campaign.\n\nThe growth of any third political party in the United States faces extremely challenging obstacles, among them restrictive ballot access. Other obstacles often cited as barriers to third-party growth include:\n\nStrict ballot access laws are not required for a two–party system, as can be seen by the experience of the United Kingdom. However, the following arguments are put forth about the need for strict ballot access laws in the United States:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33920320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33920320", "title": "Basic Law: Israel as the Nation-State of the Jewish People", "text": "Basic Law: Israel as the Nation-State of the Jewish People\n\nBasic Law: Israel as the Nation-State of the Jewish People (), informally known as the Nation-State Bill or the Nationality Bill, is an Israeli Basic Law which specifies the nature of the State of Israel as the nation-state of the Jewish people. The Law was adopted by Knesset 62 in favor, 55 against and two abstentions on 19 July 2018 (7th Av, 5778). The law is largely symbolic and declarative. It has been met with worldwide criticism, including from within the Jewish diaspora.\n\nOn 3 August 2011, the Chairman of the Foreign Affairs and Defense Committee, Avi Dichter, together with 39 other Knesset members, filed the Basic Law proposal: Israel as the Nation-State of the Jewish People which seeks to determine the nature of the state of Israel as the Jewish people, and as such it interprets the term \"Jewish and democratic state\" which appears in the Israeli basic laws and .\n\nOn 12 July 2017, The House Committee of the Knesset approved the makeup of a special Joint committee, headed by MK Amir Ohana (from Likud party) to discuss and shape the Nation-State Bill. After 10 in-depth discussions regarding its articles, the committee approved the law for first reading on 13 March 2018. Chairman Ohana stated: \"This is the law of all laws. It is the most important law in the history of the State of Israel, which says that everyone has human rights, but national rights in Israel belong only to the Jewish people. That is the founding principle on which the state was established\". Minister Yariv Levin, a strong backer of the proposal, called it “Zionism’s flagship bill... It will bring order, clarify what is taken for granted and put Israel back on the right path. A country that is different from all others in one way, that it is the nation-state of the Jewish people\". \n\nOn 1 May 2018, the Knesset passed the Nation-State Bill with a majority of 64 voting in favor of the bill and 50 against in its first reading. \n\nAdditional changes have been made during the committee's work, mostly regarding articles such as the \"Hebrew Law\", \"Ingathering of the Exiles\" and \"Jewish Settlement\". \n\nOn 19 July 2018, after a stormy debate which lasted for hours, the Knesset approved the Nation-State Bill in second and third readings by a vote of 62 in favor, 55 against and two abstentions. Following the vote, members of the Joint List tore up a printed text of the law while calling out “Apartheid”. MKs from the coalition, on the other hand, applauded the passing of the legislation. \n\nPrime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu described the passage of the new law as “a pivotal moment in the annals of Zionism and the State of Israel. We enshrined in law the basic principle of our existence. Israel is the nation state of the Jewish people, that respects the individual rights of all its citizens,” he said following the vote. “This is our state — the Jewish state. In recent years there have been some who have attempted to put this in doubt, to undercut the core of our being. Today we made it law: This is our nation, language and flag.” \n\nMK Dichter, which sponsored the law said: \"121 years ago the visionary of the state presented in Basel the proposal which is being raised today in the Knesset – a national home, the Jewish nation state. Two words that the visionary of the state could not say at the time were ‘Basic Law’, because there was no state back then... Ever since I began promoting the law, I was told that it was obvious, but the remarks of the Joint List could not be missed: ‘We will win – we were here before you, and we will be here after you.’ This law is the clearest answer to those who think this way. No minority will be able to change the state’s symbols. This Basic Law does not harm the Arabic language or any minority – that’s fake news. Israel is not a bilingual country; it never was. Israel is the nation state of the Jewish people and guarantees the majority without hurting the minority.”\n\nMinister of Tourism Yariv Levin said: “This is a historic and defining moment in Israel’s history – a historic and significant law. I do not have any complaints to the Joint List, but I cannot accept the terrible [spiritual weakening] of parties which believe in the Zionist ethos. There are some parties which have historic rights in the establishment of the state yet do not support this law. The Zionist Union sits under the flag of the movement of the country’s founders, headed by [deceased] Prime Minister David Ben-Gurion. Members of the Labor Party, tell us here, honestly: “Do you disagree with the realization of the Jewish people’s right to the Land of Israel? Is it not our nation state? Is our flag unacceptable to you? The Labor movement has never turned its back in such a way to the basic values of the Zionist movement. This is a law which strengthens the Jewish identity of the state – the Aliyah and all the values thanks to which the State of Israel was established magnificently.”\n\nMK Amir Ohana, chairman of the joint committee that legislated the bill said: “This moment will be remembered in the history of the Jewish nation. We are laying down one of the cornerstones of our existence… After 2,000 years of exile, we have a home.” Addressing members of the Arab factions, MK Ohana said, “Every minority prefers to be the majority, but you are asking to become the 22nd Arab state. We are one country that is surrounded by 21 nation states of the Arab people, which have the same language, the same nationality, the same religion and the same culture – and we have just one small country. Those who believe this law is racist are like those who think Zionism is racism\".\n\nAccording to the proposal, Israel would be defined as the nation state of the Jewish people, and the right to self-determination in Israel would be unique to the Jewish people. The proposal also stated that the state of Israel should establish ethnic communities where every resident can preserve their culture and heritage, that the Hebrew language would be considered the official language of the state of Israel (while granting the Arabic language a special status), that the Hebrew calendar would become the official calendar of the state of Israel, and that the Hebrew law would serve as an inspiration to Israeli legislators.\n\nSubsequent versions of the bill were written and submitted by MKs Ayelet Shaked, Yariv Levin, and Robert Ilatov.\n\nThe Basic Law comprises eleven clauses, as follows: \n\n1 — Basic Principles\n\nA. The land of Israel is the historical homeland of the Jewish people, in which the State of Israel was established.\n\nB. The State of Israel is the national home of the Jewish people, in which it fulfills its natural, cultural, religious and historical right to self-determination.\n\nC. The right to exercise national self-determination in the State of Israel is unique to the Jewish people.\n\n2 — Symbols of the State\n\nA. The name of the state is “Israel.”\n\nB. The state flag is white with two blue stripes near the edges and a blue Star of David in the center.\n\nC. The state emblem is a seven-branched menorah with olive leaves on both sides and the word “Israel” beneath it.\n\nD. The state anthem is “Hatikvah.”\n\nE. Details regarding state symbols will be determined by the law.\n\n3 — Capital of the State\n\nJerusalem, complete and united, is the capital of Israel.\n\n4 — Language\n\nA. The state’s language is Hebrew.\n\nB. The Arabic language has a special status in the state; Regulating the use of Arabic in state institutions or by them will be set in law.\n\nC. This clause does not harm the status given to the Arabic language before this law came into effect.\n\n5 — Ingathering of the Exiles\n\nThe state will be open for Jewish immigration and the ingathering of exiles.\n\n6 — Connection to the Jewish people\n\nA. The state will strive to ensure the safety of the members of the Jewish people in trouble or in captivity due to the fact of their Jewishness or their citizenship.\n\nB. The state shall act within the Diaspora to strengthen the affinity between the state and members of the Jewish people.\n\nC. The state shall act to preserve the cultural, historical and religious heritage of the Jewish people among Jews in the Diaspora.\n\n7 — Jewish Settlement\n\nA. The state views the development of Jewish settlement as a national value and will act to encourage and promote its establishment and consolidation.\n\n8 — Official Calendar\n\nThe Hebrew calendar is the official calendar of the state and alongside it the Gregorian calendar will be used as an official calendar. Use of the Hebrew calendar and the Gregorian calendar will be determined by law.\n\n9 — Independence Day and Memorial Days\n\nA. Independence Day is the official national holiday of the state.\n\nB. Memorial Day for the Fallen in Israel’s Wars and Holocaust and Heroism Remembrance Day are official memorial days of the State.\n\n10 — Days of Rest and Sabbath\n\nThe Sabbath and the festivals of Israel are the established days of rest in the state; Non-Jews have a right to maintain days of rest on their Sabbaths and festivals; Details of this issue will be determined by law.\n\n11 — Immutability\n\nThis Basic Law shall not be amended, unless by another Basic Law passed by a majority of Knesset members.\n\nControversy has surrounded the law since it was first proposed in 2011. A Haaretz editorial asserted that the measure would cause severe harm to Israel's democracy and the rights of its minorities. A number of prominent Israeli political and academic figures, especially from the left of the political spectrum, such as Professor Amnon Rubinstein, were also critical.\n\nThe proposal has been criticized even by people affiliated with the Israeli Right, such as the Minister and Likud Party MK Benny Begin. Critics have argued that the proposed law raises difficult questions concerning the definition of Israel as a Jewish and democratic state, and it may upset the delicate balance between the state's Jewish character and state's democratic character.\n\nOn 20 November 2011, a special discussion was held on the matter at the George Shultz Roundtable Forum which was sponsored by the Israeli Democracy Institute, and was attended by Avi Dichter and various Israeli public figures and prominent academic figures.\n\nOn the other hand, the Israeli researchers Dovi Hellman and Adi Arbel from the Institute for Zionist Strategies research institution re-published a position paper from July 2009 in which they expressed their support in the proposal. Professor Abraham Diskin also expressed a similar opinion.\n\nPrime Minister of Israel, Benjamin Netanyahu, ardently defended his draft of the Nation-State bill on 26 November 2014. Netanyahu declared Israel to be “The nation-state of the Jewish people and the Jewish people alone.” He also clarified “I want a state of one nation: the Jewish nation-state, which includes non-Jews with equal rights.” Being the land of the Jewish people, the PM is of the opinion that Israel is thus entitled to principles that combine the nation and the state of the Jewish people and grant “equal rights for all its citizens, without discrimination against religion, race or sex.”\n\nDr. Aviad Bakshi, who was also a member in the IZS constitution team, published an article in which he stated that in practice Arabic is not the official language in Israel nowadays, and therefore the argument that the proposal would harm the status of the Arabic language is not valid.\n\nIsraeli MK Dr. Einat Wilf from the Independence party published an article supporting the proposal which argued the advantages as a \"correct and balanced\" proposal because the state of Israel was established for one purpose only and that is - to be the national home of the Jewish people. This is the essence and raison d'être.\n\nSenior Fellow at Kohelet Policy Forum, Professor Eugene Kontorovich, published an article on the legitimacy of Israel’s nation-state bill' in which he compares the bill proposition to that of other EU states, and declares Israel’s bill to have “nothing racist, or even unusual, about having national or religious character reflected in constitutional commitments.” Professor Kontorovich proves that “Seven EU states have constitutional ‘nationhood’ provisions, which typically speak of the state as being the national home and locus of self-determination for the country’s majority ethnic group.” To that end, he muses, “it is hard to understand why what works for them should be so widely denounced when it comes to Israel.”\n\nIn response to the criticism, Dichter stated that \"the law proposal was created and designed for a year and a half, and that from the start the Jewish and democratic character of the state were balanced appropriately, and for this reason the proposal has gained the support from the entire political spectrum in Israel. 40 MKs have so far expressed their support in the bill proposal. Taking into account that 40 other MKs are ministers and deputy ministers can not express at this point their support of the bill proposal, this means that half of the Knesset members support the proposal. Moreover, after the bill proposal was submitted to the Knesset yesterday, additional lawmakers sought to express their support of the bill proposal\".\n\nIn the response raised by MK Benjamin Ben-Eliezer and various other political regarding the declaration of the Hebrew language as the sole official language of the state, Dichter stated that the law enshrines the existing situation. Israel's official languages were defined by the British in 1922 - back then the official languages were English, Arabic and Hebrew, in that order. \"Court rulings deal constantly with the permanent status of the language: the Hebrew language is defined as a language with a higher status than the Arabic language, and as the state's official language. Arabic on the other hand suffers from constant blurring of its status and lack of clarity about its accessibility to the native speakers of the language. According to the bill proposal the Arabic language would receive a special status which would require the state to enable accessibility to all native speakers of the language\".\n\nIn an open letter, Reuven Rivlin, Israel’s president raised his concern saying the legislation “could harm the Jewish people worldwide and in Israel and could even be used as a weapon by our enemies”.\n\nKnesset member Avi Dichter, the law's sponsor, stated, \"We are enshrining this important bill into a law today to prevent even the slightest thought, let alone attempt, to transform Israel to a country of all its citizens.\" Responding to Arab legislators who objected to the proposed basic law, he said that \"The most you can do is to live among us as a national minority that enjoys equal individual rights, but not equality as a national minority.\"\n\nIn an interview with Haaretz, Tourism Minister Yariv Levin, who supervised the passage of the law, said that \"Through the law, we can prevent family reunification [of Israeli citizens and Palestinians] not only out of security motives, but also motivated to maintain the character of the country as the national homeland of the Jewish people.\" He also insisted to reject the inclusion of equality in the legislation to avoid undermining the Law of Return.\n\nThe secretary-general of the Palestine Liberation Organization, Saeb Erekat, described it as a “dangerous and racist law” which “officially legalizes apartheid and legally defines Israel as an apartheid system”.\nHeads of Israel's Druze community petitioned the Israeli Supreme Court in protest against the law and 100 Druze reservists complained that though having fought in Israel's wars for generations, the bill relegated them to second-class status.\n\nThe Assembly of Catholic Ordinaries of the Holy Land asked the government to rescind the law.\n\nIsraeli centrists and leftists denounce the law as anti-democratic and racist in that it does not give all citizens the same right. Opposition MPs likened the contentious law to apartheid. Mass protests have been held in Tel Aviv following the law, which critics labelled as racist towards the country’s Arabs. In particular, many Arabs were angered by the law's downgrading of Arabic from an official language to one with an ambiguous \"special status\".\n\nBenny Begin, son of the co-founder of the ruling party Likud Menachem Begin, expressed his concern about the direction of his party; in his opinion, it is moving a little further away from human rights. The Adalah Legal Center for Arab Minority Rights in Israel said that the law \"contains key elements of apartheid\", which is not only immoral, but absolutely prohibited under international law\". Adalah Director Hassan Jabareen said that the law would make Israel an exclusively Jewish country, which \"made discrimination a constitutional value and made its attachment to favouring Jewish supremacy the reason for its institutions\".\n\nShimon Stein and Moshe Zimmermann commented that the new law calls into question the equality of Arabs living in Israel concerning the loss of Arabic's status as an official language, adding that only the country's Jewish settlements and Jewish immigration are considered fundamental values. They noted that the first clause, which states \"The land of Israel is the historical homeland of the Jewish people, in which the State of Israel was established,\" opens up a loophole for annexation of the West Bank and a goodbye to the two-state solution and democracy.\n\nAyman Odeh, head of the Joint List party, condemned the law, seeing it as \"the death of democracy\".\n\nBacklash abroad has shown disapproval of the law by Jewish groups with the American Jewish Committee stating the law “put at risk the commitment of Israel’s founders to build a country that is both Jewish and democratic”. Additionally, Jonathan Greenblatt, CEO of the Anti-Defamation League (ADL), said, “While there are provisions that we agree with — notably with regard to state symbols like the anthem, flag and capital Jerusalem; as well as in reaffirming that the State of Israel is open to Jewish immigration — we are troubled by the fact that the law, which celebrates the fundamental Jewish nature of the state, raises significant questions about the government’s long-term commitment to its pluralistic identity and democratic nature.”\n\nThe European Union expressed concern over the passing of the law, which, according to \"Reuters\", declares that only Jews have the right of national self-determination in Israel.\n\nIsraeli Prime Minister Netanyahu responded that the civil rights of every Israeli citizen is guaranteed in a series of Knesset laws, including , but the national rights of the Jewish people in Israel had not been enshrined by law until now. He also noted that \"For dozens of years the opposition has preached to us that we need to withdraw to the 1967 lines to ensure that Israel will be the national home of the Jewish people where there will be a Jewish majority in the country. So now suddenly, when we legislate a law that does just that, they scream on the left\". Regarding complaints by Druze citizens, Netanyahu said \"In contrast to the outrageous comments from the left attacking the Jewish state, I was touched by the sentiments of our brothers and sisters in the Druze community,\" while assuring them that \"there is nothing in this law that violates your rights as equal citizens of the State of Israel.\" Netanyahu added that he will continue meeting with Druze leaders to find solutions to their concerns. Initial meetings with Druze leaders fell apart, however, when Netanyahu walked out, after one Druze leader refused Netanyahu's demand that he take back his use of the term \"apartheid\" to refer to the law on social media. Some Druze participants suggested that Netanyahu had deliberately torpedoed the meeting when he saw that they would not endorse cosmetic changes to the law\n\nA poll conducted by Panel Politics found that 58% of Israeli Jews support the law, 34% are against and 8% have no opinion (among 532 responses). The poll found more support among people who define themselves as right-wing or centrist, while leftists are more likely to oppose it. A survey, conducted by the Israeli Democracy Institute and based on the replies of 600 Israelis, showed that the majority of the public, 59.6% of Jews and 72.5% of Arabs, believe that equality for all Israeli citizens should have been also covered by the law.\nIn response to the presence of Palestinian flags during a protest against the law in Tel Aviv, Netanyahu said \"there is no greater testament to the necessity of this law. We will continue to wave the Israeli flag and sing Hatikvah with great pride.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2932381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2932381", "title": "Canadian Council of Churches v Canada (Minister of Employment and Immigration)", "text": "Canadian Council of Churches v Canada (Minister of Employment and Immigration)\n\nCanadian Council of Churches v Canada (Minister of Employment and Immigration), <nowiki>[1992] 1 S.C.R. 236,</nowiki> is a leading Supreme Court of Canada case on the law of standing in Canada. In particular, the case sets out the criteria a public-interest group must meet in order to be allowed to mount a constitutional challenge in court.\n\nPrior to this case standing for public-interest litigants was governed by the \"\"Borowski\" test,\" which was given broad application. During the hearings for \"Thorson\" and \"Borowski\" Justice Martland and Chief Justice Laskin were fiercely at odds over the issue on interpreting the standard. Laskin felt that the \"Borowski\" test allowed in people who merely wanted to challenge law for political reasons and not because they were truly affected, while Martland felt the test followed the original principles in \"Thorson v. Attorney General of Canada\".\n\nThe Canadian Council of Churches is an incorporated interest group that represents the interests of a number of churches. The group's focus had been the current government policy on refugee protection and resettlement. In particular, they had been critical of the changes in the determination process of evaluating whether a refugee came within the definition of Convention Refugee as part of recent amendments to the Immigration Act, 1976.\n\nThe Council sought a judicial declaration that the amendments were unconstitutional, and therefore of no force or effect. The Attorney General of Canada moved to strike out the claim on the basis that the Council did not have standing to bring the action. At first instance, it was held that the Council had standing, but this was overturned on appeal. The issue before the Supreme Court of Canada was whether the Council has standing to challenge the validity of the amendments. The Court found that the Council did not have standing, and dismissed the appeal.\n\nThe Court acknowledged the need for public-interest standing in principle, to ensure that government is not immunized from constitutional challenges to legislation. However, the Court also stressed the need to strike a balance between ensuring access to the courts and preserving judicial resources, citing the concern of an \"unnecessary proliferation of marginal or redundant suits brought by well-meaning organizations pursuing their own particular cases certain in the knowledge that their cause is all important.\"\n\nThe current test for standing, as summarized in this decision, considers three factors:\n\nOn the facts of the case the Court found that the claim did raise some serious questions. Moreover, the claimant had a \"genuine interest\" in its validity. However, the claim must fail on the third and most onerous factor. Since a refugee would have standing to challenge the law, there would clearly be a reasonable and effective way to bring the issue to the Court. The Court dismissed the argument that refugees did not have effective access to the courts to bring a claim. Evidence showed that many are capable of making claims, which, in all, were better ways to challenge a law as there are concrete facts behind it. The Court further dismissed the claim that the potential imposition of a removal order would bar them from challenging it, as the Federal Court could grant an injunction to prevent deportation.\n\n"}
{"id": "1022133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1022133", "title": "Chlorodyne", "text": "Chlorodyne\n\nChlorodyne was one of the best known patent medicines sold in the British Isles. It was invented in the 19th century by a Dr. John Collis Browne, a doctor in the British Indian Army; its original purpose was in the treatment of cholera. Browne sold his formula to the pharmacist John Thistlewood Davenport, who advertised it widely, as a treatment for cholera, diarrhea, insomnia, neuralgia, migraines, etc. As its principal ingredients were a mixture of laudanum (an alcoholic solution of opium), tincture of cannabis, and chloroform, it readily lived up to its claims of relieving pain, as a sedative, and for the treatment of diarrhea.\n\nChlorodyne sold extremely well for many years; as its active ingredients were well known, local chemists' shops would also make up cheaper generic versions for sale to their customers. Here is an example of such a generic formulation, from \"Materia Medica\" by William Hale-White & A.H. Douthwaite, 21st edition (1932):\n\n\"Tinctura Chloroformi et Morphinæ Composita intended to be an imitation of the proprietary medicine called chlorodyne. Mix chloroform 75, tincture of capsicum 25, tincture of Indian hemp 100, oil of peppermint 2 and glycerin 250 with alcohol (20 per cent) 450. Dissolve morphine hydrochloride 10 in the mixture. Add to it diluted hydrocyanic acid 50 and enough alcohol (90 per cent) to make 1000. Strength. 1 millilitre contains chloroform 7.5 centimils; morphine hydrochloride 1 centigram; acidum hydrocyanicum dilutum 5 centimils.\n\nDose 5 to 15 minims - 0.2 to 1ml\n\nBesides the generics, a number of rival sellers marketed their own branded versions of the formula, brands such as \"Freeman's\", \"Teasdale's\", and \"Towle's\". It can be seen from the illustrations that the authenticity of these rival brands was hotly contested.\n\nThough the drug was effective in many ways, its high opiate content also made it very addictive, and deaths from overdoses, either accidental or deliberate, became a frequent occurrence. A common feature of the coroner's report in such cases would be the description of the deceased's body being found in a flat or bedsit littered with empty Chlorodyne bottles. Over the decades of the twentieth century, the cannabis was removed from the formulation, and the amount of opiates in the medicine were progressively reduced. The name of Collis Browne lives on in Britain in a mixture sold under the trade name \"J Collis Browne's Mixture\" for the relief of coughs and diarrhea. This modern formulation contains morphine and peppermint oil.\n"}
{"id": "18934951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18934951", "title": "Code and Other Laws of Cyberspace", "text": "Code and Other Laws of Cyberspace\n\nCode and Other Laws of Cyberspace is a 1999 book by Lawrence Lessig on the structure and nature of regulation of the Internet.\n\nThe primary idea of the book, as expressed in the title, is the notion that computer code (or \"West Coast Code\", referring to Silicon Valley) regulates conduct in much the same way that legal code (or \"East Coast Code\", referring to Washington, D.C.) does. More generally, Lessig argues that there are actually four major regulators (Law, Norms, Market, Architecture) each of which has a profound impact on society and whose implications must be considered (sometimes called the \"pathetic dot theory\", after the \"dot\" that is constrained by these regulators.)\n\nThe book includes a discussion of the implications for copyright law, arguing that cyberspace changes not only the technology of copying but also the power of law to protect against illegal copying. It goes so far as to argue that code displaces the balance in copyright law and doctrines such as fair use. If it becomes possible to license every aspect of use (by means of trusted systems created by code), no aspect of use would have the protection of fair use. The importance of this side of the story is generally underestimated and, as the examples in the book show, very often, code is even (only) considered as an extra \"tool\" to fight against \"unlimited copying.\"\n\n\"The Future of Ideas\" is a continuation of \"Code's\" analysis of copyright, where Lessig argues that too much long term copyright protection hampers the creation of new ideas based on existing works, and advocates the importance of existing works entering the public domain quickly.\n\nIn March 2005, Lessig launched the Code V.2 Wiki to update the book with current information, which he then adapted into a second edition of the book, \"\", in 2006.\n\nThe book has been widely cited, helping Lessig repeatedly achieve top places on lists of most-cited law school faculty. It has been called \"the most influential book to date about law and cyberspace\", \"seminal\", and in a critical essay on the book's 10th anniversary, author Declan McCullagh (subject of the chapter \"What Declan Doesn't Get\") said it was \"difficult to overstate the influence\" of the book.\n\n"}
{"id": "34583907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34583907", "title": "Collective title", "text": "Collective title\n\nA collective title is an expression by which two or more pieces of legislation may, under the law of the United Kingdom, be cited together. A famous example is the Parliament Acts 1911 and 1949.\n\nSection 2(2) of the Short Titles Act 1896 reads:\n\nThis provision is derived from section 1(3) of the Short Titles Act 1892.\n\nSection 19(2) of the Interpretation Act 1978 does not authorise the continued use of a collective title previously authorised by a repealed enactment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13733340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13733340", "title": "Common stock dividend", "text": "Common stock dividend\n\nA common stock dividend is the dividend paid to common stock owners from the profits of the company. Like other dividends, the payout is in the form of either cash or stock. The law may regulate the size of the common stock dividend particularly when the payout is a cash distribution tantamount to a liquidation. Such cash dividends may serve the intent of defrauding creditors.\n\nA cash dividend is the distribution of profits to the common stock shareholders, the owners of the corporation. Such distributions are in equal amounts to the shareholders depending on the portion of the company they own.\n\nA stock dividend to common stock dividend owners distributes additional stock in the company to the common stock shareholders. Such dividends are evenly distributed to the shareholders depending on their portion of ownership in the corporation. Such distributions maintain their proportional ownership in the corporation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5637619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5637619", "title": "Conservator of the peace", "text": "Conservator of the peace\n\nIn ancient British customs, Conservators of the Peace (Latin: \"Custodes pacis\"), or Wardens of the Peace, were individuals who had a special charge, by virtue of their office, to see that the King's peace was kept.\n\nUntil the creation of the Justices of the Peace by King Edward III, there were several people, who by common law were interested in keeping the same—some having that charge as incident to other offices; others simply, or of itself, called \"custodes\", or \"Conservators of the Peace\".\n\nMore recently, the Chamberlain of Chester was a Conservator in the county of Cheshire; and petty constables are, by the common law, conservators in the first sense.\n\nThe Conservator of the Peace title is still used in the USA. For example, in Virginia, Special Conservators of the Peace upon a showing by the applicant of a necessity for the security of property or the peace and presentation of evidence that the person or persons to be appointed as a special conservator of the peace possess a valid registration issued by the Department of Criminal Justice Services. The order of appointment shall provide that a special conservator of the peace may perform only the duties for which he is qualified by training as established by the Criminal Justice Services Board. The order of appointment shall provide that such duties shall be exercised only within geographical limitations specified by the court, which shall be within the confines of the county, city or town that makes application or on the real property where the corporate applicant is located, or any real property contiguous to such real property. The order may provide that the special conservator of the peace shall have the authority to make an arrest outside of such geographical limitations if the arrest results from a close pursuit that was initiated when the special conservator of the peace was within the confines of the area wherein he has been authorized to have the powers and authority of a special conservator of the peace; the order shall further delineate a geographical limitation or distance beyond which the special conservator of the peace may not effectuate such an arrest that follows from a close pursuit. The order may also provide that a special conservator of the peace who has completed the minimum training standards established by the Criminal Justice Services Board, has the authority to affect arrests, using up to the same amount of force as would be allowed to a law-enforcement officer employed by the Commonwealth or any of its political subdivisions when making a lawful arrest. No special conservator of the peace shall display or use the word \"police\" on any uniform, badge, credential, or vehicle in the performance of his duties as a special conservator of the peace. Other than special conservators of the peace employed by a state agency, no special conservator of the peace shall use the seal of the Commonwealth on any uniform, badge, credential, or vehicle in the performance of his duties. \nhttps://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/title19.2/chapter2/section19.2-13/\n"}
{"id": "22185827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22185827", "title": "Dartmouth Law Journal", "text": "Dartmouth Law Journal\n\nThe Dartmouth Law Journal, formerly the Dartmouth College Undergraduate Journal of Law, is a student-run legal journal founded in 2003. The print journal accepts articles from lawyers, law students, judges and legal academics, and is one of the nation's first law journals run entirely by undergraduates. It is edited and published by the students of Dartmouth College in Hanover, New Hampshire, United States. The Journal also publishes work by undergraduates on their online platform, DLJ Online. \n\n"}
{"id": "1243010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1243010", "title": "Doctors' Commons", "text": "Doctors' Commons\n\nDoctors' Commons, also called the College of Civilians, was a society of lawyers practising civil law in London. Like the Inns of Court of the common lawyers, the society had buildings with rooms where its members lived and worked, and a large library. Court proceedings of the civil law courts were also held in Doctors' Commons. The society also used St Benet's, Paul's Wharf as its church.\n\nWhile the English Common Law, unlike the legal systems on the European continent, developed mostly independently from Roman Law, some specialised English courts applied the Roman-based civil law. This is true of the ecclesiastical courts, whose practice even after the English Reformation continued to be based on the canon law of the Roman Catholic Church, but also of the admiralty courts. The advocates practising in these courts were trained in Canon law (before the Reformation) and Roman law (after the Reformation) at the universities of Oxford and Cambridge. The civilian legal profession was split like its common law counterpart. The advocates had a role similar to that of barristers in the common law courts.\n\nAccording to some accounts, the society of Doctors' Commons was formed in 1511 by Richard Blodwell, Dean of the Arches. According to others, it existed already in the 15th century. The society's buildings, which were acquired in 1567, were originally situated near St. Paul's Cathedral at Paternoster Row, and later nearby in Knightrider Street where it remained until the buildings were sold in 1865. (Baker (1998), p. 59, n.8)\n\nIn 1768 it was incorporated under the official name of \"College of Doctors of Law exercent in the Ecclesiastical and Admiralty Courts\". The college consisted of a president (the Dean of Arches for the time being) and of those doctors of law who, having regularly taken that degree in either of the universities of Oxford or Cambridge, and having been admitted advocates in pursuance of the rescript of the archbishop of Canterbury, were elected \"fellows\" in the manner prescribed by the charter. There were also attached to the college thirty-four \"proctors\", whose duties were analogous to those of solicitors.\n\nIn the nineteenth century, the institution of Doctors' Commons and its members were looked upon as old-fashioned and slightly ridiculous. A satirical description of Doctors' Commons can be found in Charles Dickens's \"Sketches by Boz\" and also in his novel \"David Copperfield\" (in which Dickens called it a \"cosey, dosey, old-fashioned, time-forgotten, sleepy-headed little family party.\" (ch. 23))\n\nAs anticipation of an impending abolition grew, there was a reluctance among the society to admit new fellows as this would dilute the proceeds of any winding up of the property. Dr Thomas Hutchinson Tristram was the last to be admitted.\n\nThe Court of Probate Act 1857 abolished the testamentary jurisdiction of the ecclesiastical courts and gave common lawyers the right to practise in areas which before had been the exclusive domain of civilians, while offering the token compensation that the civilians could practise in the common law courts. Critically, the Act also made it lawful for the Doctors' Commons, by a vote of the majority of its fellows, to dissolve itself and surrender its Royal Charter, the proceeds of dissolution to be shared among the members.\n\nFollowing this, the Matrimonial Causes Act 1857 created a new divorce court in which both barristers and advocates could appear. Then the High Court of Admiralty Act 1859 liberalised rights of audience in the Admiralty Court, leaving only the jurisdiction of the Court of Arches.\n\nA motion to dissolve the society was entered on 13 January 1858 and the last meeting took place on 10 July 1865. The fellows did not formally surrender their offices, nor in the end their charter, but the society perished with the death of its last fellow Dr. T.H. Tristram in 1912. The buildings of Doctors' Commons were sold in 1865 and demolished soon after. The site is now largely occupied by the Faraday building.\n\nThe Court of Arches itself finally admitted barristers, accepting that they could exercise all the offices of an advocate, in 1867.\n\nIn \"The Moonstone\", the solicitor of Gray's Inn Square Mathew Bruff notes, \"I shall perhaps do well if I explain in this place, for the benefit of the few people who don't know it already, that the law allows all wills to be examined at Doctor's Commons by anybody who applies, on payment of a shilling fee.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "308725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=308725", "title": "Engel v. Vitale", "text": "Engel v. Vitale\n\nEngel v. Vitale, 370 U.S. 421 (1962), was a landmark United States Supreme Court case in which the Court ruled that it is unconstitutional for state officials to compose an official school prayer and encourage its recitation in public schools.\n\nThe state of New York approved a piece of legislation which encouraged students to start their school days with the Pledge of Allegiance and a prayer with the text:\n\nThe case was brought by a group of families of public school students in New Hyde Park from the Herricks Union Free School District who sued the school board president William J. Vitale, Jr. The families argued that the voluntary prayer written by the state board of regents to \"Almighty God\" contradicted their religious beliefs. Led by Steven I. Engel, a Jewish man, the plaintiffs sought to challenge the constitutionality of the state's prayer in school policy. They were supported by groups opposed to the school prayer including rabbinical organizations, Ethical Culture, and Jewish organizations. The acting parties were not members of one particular religion; despite being listed in the court papers as an atheist, plaintiff Lawrence Roth later denied that and described himself as religious but disagreed with prayer. \n\nThe plaintiffs argued that opening the school day with such a prayer violates the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment to the United States Constitution (as applied to the states through the Fourteenth Amendment), which states, in part, \"Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion\". The governments of twenty-two states submitted an \"amicus curiae\" brief to the Supreme Court urging affirmance of the New York Court of Appeals decision that upheld the constitutionality of the prayer. The American Jewish Committee, the Synagogue Council of America, and the American Ethical Union each submitted briefs urging the Court to instead reverse and rule that the prayer was unconstitutional.\n\nIn a 6–1 decision, the Supreme Court held that reciting government-written prayers in public schools was unconstitutional, violating the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment.\n\nIn his opinion for the Court, Justice Black explained the importance of separation between church and state by giving a lengthy history of the issue, beginning with the 16th century in England. He noted that prayer is a religious activity by the very nature of being a prayer, and that prescribing such a religious activity for school children violates the Establishment Clause.\n\nThe Court rejected the defendant's arguments that students were not asked to observe any specific established religion, that the traditional heritage of the nation was religious, and that the prayer was voluntary. The Court held that the mere promotion of a religion is sufficient to establish a violation, even if that promotion is not coercive. The Court further held that the fact that the prayer is vaguely-enough worded not to promote any particular religion is not a sufficient defense, as it still promotes a family of religions (those that recognize \"Almighty God\"), which still violates the Establishment Clause.\n\nSince its decision, \"Engel\" has been the subject of intense debate. It has become considered one of the Court's \"liberal\" decisions alongside decisions such as its sequel, \"Abington School District v. Schempp\", \"Griswold v. Connecticut\", \"Miranda v. Arizona\" and its sequel, \"in re Gault\", \"Eisenstadt v. Baird\", \"Roe v. Wade\", \"Miller v. California\" and \"Mapp v. Ohio\", and has been criticized for its broadness in holding that a showing of coercion is not required to demonstrate an Establishment Clause violation.\n\n\"Engel\" has been the basis for several subsequent decisions limiting government-directed prayer in school. In \"Wallace v. Jaffree\" (1985), the Supreme Court ruled Alabama's law permitting one minute for prayer or meditation was unconstitutional. In \"Lee v. Weisman\" (1992), the court prohibited clergy-led prayer at middle school graduation ceremonies. \"Lee v. Weisman\", in turn, was a basis for \"Santa Fe ISD v. Doe\" (2000), in which the Court extended the ban to school-organized \"student\"-led prayer at high school football games.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56219109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56219109", "title": "Evidence Act 2006", "text": "Evidence Act 2006\n\nThe Evidence Act 2006 is an Act of the Parliament of New Zealand that codifies the laws of evidence. When enacted, the Act drew together the common law and statutory provisions relating to evidence into one comprehensive scheme, replacing most of the previous evidence law on the admissibility and use of evidence in court proceedings.\n\nThe foundations of the Act started in August 1989, when the Law Commission started work on reviewing the nation's piecemeal evidence laws. A decade of work culminated in August 1999 with the Commission producing a draft Evidence Code on which the Evidence Act is based. The Evidence Bill was introduced in May 2006 and passed its third and final reading on 23 November 2006. The majority of the Act came into force on 1 August 2007.\n\n\nSections 1 and 2 relate to the title and commencement of the Act respectively.\n\nSection 3 provides the Act binds the Crown. Section 4 defines terms used in the Act. \n\nSection 5 deals with the application of the Act. If there is an inconsistency between the Act and any other enactment, the other enactment prevails. However, if there is an inconsistency between the Act and the High Court Rules or the District Court Rules, the Act prevails.\n\nSection 6 sets out the purpose of the Act.\n\nSection 7 of the Bill deals with the principle of relevance. The general rule is that, unless otherwise provided, relevant evidence is admissible in proceedings. Evidence that is not relevant is inadmissible. Evidence is relevant if it has a tendency to prove or disprove anything that is of consequence to the determination of the proceeding.\n\nSection 8 sets out a general rule that in any proceeding the Judge must exclude evidence if its probative value is outweighed by the risk that the evidence will have an unfairly prejudicial effect on the outcome of the proceeding, or needlessly prolong the proceeding.\n\nSection 9 deals with the admission of evidence by consent. It allows the admission of otherwise inadmissible evidence with the consent of all parties and the admission of evidence in any way or form agreed by all parties. It also allows the prosecution and the defendant to admit any fact and so dispense with the need for proof of that fact in any criminal proceedings.\n\nSection 10 sets out 3 special rules regarding the interpretation of the Act. The Act must be interpreted in a\nway that promotes its purpose and its principles. The Act is also not subject to any rule that statutes in derogation of the common law should be strictly construed. However, the Act may be interpreted having regard to the common law, but only to the extent that the common law is consistent with its provisions, the promotion of its purpose and its principles, and the application of the rule in section 12.\n\nSection 11 provides that the powers inherent in a court to regulate and prevent abuse of its procedure are not affected by the Bill, except to the extent provided in the Bill.\n\nSection 12 provides that if there are no provisions in the Act or any other enactment regulating the admission of particular items of evidence, or the relevant provisions deal with that question only in part, decisions must be made having regard to the purpose and the principles set out in sections 6 to 8, and the common law, to the extent that it is consistent with the promotion of that purpose and those principles and is relevant to the decisions to be taken.\n\nSection 13 sets out rules to be applied in establishing the relevance of any document.\n\nSection 14 provides for the admission of evidence on a provisional basis.\n\nSection 15 sets out rules governing the admissibility of evidence given for the purposes of establishing whether any particular evidence is admissible in the substantive proceeding.\n\nSection 16 clarifies the meaning of the terms circumstances and unavailable as a witness. These terms are relevant to the exception to the hearsay rule which is stated in section 18.\n\nSection 17 states the rule against the admissibility of hearsay statements. The scope of the existing rule has been limited by the definition of hearsay statement in section 4, which limits hearsay statements to statements made by non-witnesses. Thus, under the Bill, it is not hearsay for a witness to recount in evidence what another witness said. Nor is it hearsay if a witness recounts his or her own out-of-court statements (but such evidence may be inadmissible on other grounds, for example under the previous consistent statements rule stated in section 35). Under section 17 a hearsay statement is not admissible except as provided by section 18 or by a provision in another Act, or if a provision of the Act makes the rule against hearsay inapplicable and the statement is relevant and otherwise admissible.\n\nSection 18 provides that a hearsay statement is admissible if, first, there is a reasonable assurance that it is reliable because of the circumstances that relate to it, and, secondly, if the maker of the statement is unavailable as a witness. The second condition may be waived if the Judge considers that undue expense and delay would be caused by requiring the maker of the statement to testify. This section codifies the common law exception created in the 1989 case \"R v Baker\".\n\nSection 19 allow a hearsay statement contained in a business record to be admitted without having to separately satisfy the reliability test.\n\nSection 22 provides no hearsay statement may be offered in a criminal proceeding unless the other parties have been given notice of the proposed hearsay statement or if every other party has waived the notice requirements or if the Judge dispenses with those requirements. The section also sets out the notice requirements for hearsay statements proposed to be offered in criminal proceedings.\n\nSection 23 states the opinion rule, which is that statements of opinion are inadmissible except as provided by section 24 or 25.\n\nSection 24 enables any witness (whether an expert or not) to state an opinion in evidence if that is necessary for the evidence to be communicated or understood. For example, the speed at which a vehicle was observed to be travelling may be stated in evidence, even though that statement contains an opinion component.\n\nSection 25 makes opinions expressed by experts as part of expert evidence admissible if the Judge or jury is likely to obtain substantial help from them. It also clarifies that certain common law rules against the admission of expert evidence cease to apply. These are the rules that bar an expert from giving evidence on the ultimate issue to be decided by the Judge or jury, and from giving evidence on matters of common knowledge. The section also provides that, where experts base their opinions on facts outside their expertise, the opinions may be relied on only if the facts are proved or judicially noticed.\n\nSection 27 relates to criminal proceedings. The prosecution may offer evidence of statements made by the defendant if those statements are not excluded by the Judge because there is a question as to their reliability (section 28) or because there is a question as to whether they were influenced by oppressive conduct (section 29), or because they were improperly obtained (section 30).\n\nSection 28 deals with the case where the defence raises, on the basis of an evidential foundation, an issue about the reliability of a defendant's statement that the prosecution offers or intends to offer in the proceeding, or where the issue is raised by the Judge. In such a case, the Judge must exclude the statement unless satisfied that the circumstances in which the statement was made were not likely to have adversely affected its reliability. The standard to which the Judge must be satisfied is the balance of probabilities. Subsection (4) sets out a list of matters that a Judge must (if relevant) take into account for the purpose of applying the reliability test. The list does not preclude a Judge from taking other matters into account. The matters in the list, which must be taken into account, include any physical, mental, or psychological condition of the defendant at the time the statement was made, any pertinent characteristics of the defendant (for example, intellectual disability), the nature of any questions put to the defendant, and the nature of any threat, promise, or representation made to the defendant or any other person.\n\nSection 29 deals with the case where the defence raises, on the basis of an evidential foundation, the issue of whether a defendant's statement that the prosecution offers or intends to offer was obtained by oppressive, violent, inhuman, or degrading conduct or treatment or a threat of such conduct or treatment, or where the Judge raises the issue. In such a case, the Judge must exclude the statement unless satisfied beyond reasonable doubt that the statement was not influenced by such conduct, treatment, or threats. For the purpose of determining whether the statement must be excluded, it is irrelevant whether or not the statement is true. Subsection (4) sets out a list of matters that a Judge must (if relevant) take into account for the purpose of applying the reliability test. The list is the same as that set out in section 28(4).\n\nSection 30 deals with the case where the defence raises, on the basis of an evidential foundation, the issue of whether evidence that the prosecution offers or intends to offer was improperly obtained, or where the Judge raises the issue. The section applies not only to statements, but also to documents and things that may have been improperly obtained. Improperly obtained means obtained as a result of a breach of any enactment or rule of law by a person bound by the New Zealand Bill of Rights Act 1990; obtained as a result of a statement that the prosecution is precluded from offering against the\ndefendant: or obtained unfairly. If the Judge finds that the evidence has been improperly obtained, the Judge may determine if the exclusion of the evidence is proportionate to the impropriety by means of a balancing process that gives appropriate weight to the impropriety but also takes proper account of the need for an effective and credible system of justice. In undertaking that balancing exercise, the Judge may, among other matters, have regard to the importance of any right breached by the impropriety, the nature of the impropriety, in particular, whether it was deliberate or reckless or done in bad faith, and the seriousness of the offence with which the defendant is charged.\n\nSection 31 prevents the prosecution from relying on a defendant's statement that another party puts in evidence if the prosecution is precluded from using the statement because of sections 28, 29 or 30.\n\nSection 32 prohibits any invitation to the Judge or jury in a criminal trial to draw an inference that the defendant is guilty from the defendant's silence in the course of official questioning before the trial or from the defendant's failure to disclose a defence before trial. The Judge must direct the jury not to draw an inference of guilt from failures of that kind.\n\nSection 33 bars all persons other than the Judge or the defence from commenting on the fact that the defendant did not give evidence at his or her trial. \n\nSection 34 provides for the admissibility of admissions in civil proceedings. However, hearsay admissions may not be used against a third party unless the circumstances relating to the making of the admission provide reasonable assurance that the admission is reliable or the third party consents.\n\nSection 35 makes a statement that a witness previously made out of court inadmissible if the statement confirms the evidence the witness gives in court. This rule is subject to 2 exceptions. First, a statement of that kind is admissible to rebut a challenge to the witness's veracity or accuracy. Secondly, a statement of that kind is admissible if the witness is unable to recall the matter to which the evidence relates or whose recall of the matter is imperfect if the circumstances relating to the statement provide a reasonable assurance that it is reliable.\n\nSection 36 concerns the application of this subpart. The section clarifies that the restrictions on giving evidence about a person's veracity do not apply if the alleged lack of veracity on the part of a defendant is an ingredient of the prosecution (as in a prosecution for perjury) or civil action (as in an action for malicious falsehood).\n\nSection 37 precludes evidence about a person's veracity from being given in criminal or civil proceedings unless the Judge decides that the evidence is substantially helpful. The section sets out several factors that the Judge may, among others, consider in making that assessment. These include, for example, whether the proposed evidence tends to show a lack of veracity because of relevant offending or previous inconsistent statements or because of the person's reputation as an untruthful person. The section also prevents a party from challenging the veracity of the party's own witness unless the witness is declared hostile by the Judge.\n\nSection 38 relates to criminal proceedings. Subject to the test of substantial helpfulness set out in section 37, the defendant may offer evidence about his or her veracity. If the defendant does so, the Judge may permit the prosecution to offer veracity evidence about that defendant. \n\nSection 39 relates to criminal proceedings against multiple defendants. A defendant may give evidence about his or her co-defendant's veracity only if that evidence is relevant to a defence to be raised by the defendant and if prior notice of the proposed evidence has been given to all co-defendants. The notice requirement may be waived by the Judge or the co-defendants.\n\nSection 40 sets out the general rule that propensity evidence (that is evidence that a person tends to act in a particular way or to have a particular state of mind) may be given in a civil or criminal proceeding. That rule is subject to the exceptions set out in sections 41 to 44.\n\nSection 41 relates to criminal proceedings. A defendant may offer propensity evidence about himself or herself. If the defendant does so, the Judge may permit the prosecution to offer propensity evidence about that defendant and, in that case, the prosecution is not subject to the restrictions imposed by section 43 on propensity evidence led by the prosecution.\n\nSection 42 relates to criminal proceedings against multiple defendants. A defendant may give propensity evidence about a co-defendant only if that evidence is relevant to a defence to be raised by the defendant and if prior notice of the proposed evidence has been given to all co-defendants. The notice requirement may be waived by the co-defendants or by the Judge.\n\nSection 43 sets out the restrictions that apply to propensity evidence offered by the prosecution in a criminal proceeding. Such evidence is admissible only if it has a probative value which outweighs any unfairly prejudicial effect on the defendant. The section specifies several matters that the Judge may consider among others. The specified matters include the frequency of the alleged conduct, the timing of the conduct, the similarity between the conduct and the offence charged, the number of persons making allegations against the defendant and the risk of collusion or suggestibility, and the extent to which the conduct and the offence charged are unusual. When assessing the prejudicial effect of propensity evidence on the defendant, the Judge must consider, among many other matters, whether the evidence is likely to unfairly predispose the jury against the defendant, and whether the jury will tend to give disproportionate weight in reaching its verdict to evidence about the defendant's previous conduct.\n\nSection 44 protects complainants in prosecutions for sexual offences from certain questions and evidence about their sexual experience and reputation. The starting point is to exclude evidence or questions that relate to the complainant's reputation in sexual matters or to the complainant's sexual experience with a person other than the defendant. However, the Judge may permit any evidence or a question about that experience if satisfied that it would be contrary to the interests of justice to exclude it because of its direct relevance to the facts in issue or to the question of the appropriate sentence.\n\nSection 44A provides no evidence of a complainant's sexual experience may be offered in a criminal proceeding unless the other parties have been given notice of the proposed statement or if every other party has waived the notice requirements or if the Judge dispenses with those requirements. The section also sets out the notice requirements for evidence proposed to be offered in criminal proceedings.\n\nSection 45 relates to criminal proceedings in which evidence about previous visual identifications of an alleged offender obtained by officers of an enforcement agency is proposed to be given. Such evidence is admissible if a formal procedure was followed or there was good reason for not following it unless the defendant proves on the balance of probabilities that the evidence is unreliable. If, without good reason, a formal procedure was not followed, the evidence\nis inadmissible unless the prosecution proves on the balance of probabilities that the circumstances of the identification were likely to have produced a reliable identification.\n\nSection 46 relates to criminal proceedings in which voice identification evidence is proposed to be offered by the prosecution. Such evidence is inadmissible unless the prosecution proves on the balance of probabilities that the circumstances of the identification were likely to have produced a reliable identification.\n\nSection 47 provides that in a civil proceeding proof of a person's conviction for an offence is conclusive proof that the person committed the offence unless, in exceptional circumstances, the Judge permits a party to offer contrary evidence.\n\nSection 48 provides that if a proceeding for defamation is based on a statement that a person has committed an offence, proof of the person's conviction for the offence provides conclusive proof that the person committed the offence.\n\nSection 49 makes evidence of a person's conviction generally admissible in criminal proceedings and proof of the person's conviction for an offence is conclusive proof that the person committed the offence unless, in exceptional circumstances, the Judge permits a party to offer contrary evidence. A party who wishes to offer evidence of a person's conviction must first tell the Judge why the evidence is to be offered.\n\nSection 50 provides that a judgment in a civil proceeding is not admissible in another proceeding to prove the existence of a fact established by that judgment.\n\nSection 51 defines the term legal adviser for the purposes of this subpart. The term includes a registered patent attorney, but the services of a registered patent attorney that give rise to legal professional privilege are restricted by section 54(2). It is also made clear that, for the purposes of the subpart, a reference to a communication or to information includes a reference to a communication or information contained in a document. Subsection (3) sets out a special meaning of the term information for the purposes of section 60 to 63. The effect of the definition is to exclude from those clauses (which relate to the privilege against self-incrimination, the discretion as to incrimination under foreign law, and the replacement of the privilege against self-incrimination in the case of Anton Piller orders) documents created before the person concerned is required to provide information. The section also provides that privileged communications may be made and received by authorised representatives. However, this does not apply to the privilege for communications with ministers of religion, the privilege for information obtained by medical practitioners and clinical psychologists, or the privilege for informers.\n\nSection 52 provides procedural mechanisms for the protection of privileged information.\n\nSection 53 describes the effects of various privileges. If the privilege is in respect of a communication (such as the privilege for communications with legal advisers) the privilege holder has the right to refuse to disclose the communication in a proceeding as well as any information contained in the communication and any opinion formed by a person that is based on the communication or information.\nIf the privilege is in respect of information or a document, the privilege holder has the right to refuse to disclose in a proceeding the information or document and any opinion formed by a person that is based on the information or document. In the case of a privilege in respect of a communication, information, opinion, or document (other than the privilege against self-incrimination) the privilege holder may require that the communication, information, opinion, or document not be disclosed in a proceeding by the recipient of the communication or the information, or by the person who gave the opinion or prepared the information or document or by any other person who has received the privileged material with the authority of the privilege holder, in confidence and in relation to the circumstances that have given rise to the privilege. But the class of person barred from disclosing privileged material may be extended by the Court.\n\nSection 54 provides a privilege for clients of legal advisers in confidential communications made for the purpose of obtaining or providing professional legal services. By virtue of section 54, the right not to have such communications disclosed is limited to proceedings. The corresponding legal professional privilege recognised by the common law also protects such communications from disclosure in other situations.\n\nSection 55 excludes accounting records relating to solicitors' trust accounts or nominee companies from the ambit of the privilege conferred by section 54.\n\nSection 56 gives a person who is, or on reasonable grounds contemplates becoming, a party to a proceeding, a privilege in respect of communications or information made, received, compiled, or prepared for the dominant purpose of preparing for the proceeding. The privilege may be displaced in the case of a proceeding under Part 2 of the Oranga Tamariki Act 1989 or under the Care of Children Act 2004 (other than a criminal proceeding), if a Judge is satisfied that it is in the best interests of the child.\n\nSection 57 provides a privilege for parties to a civil dispute in respect of communications and documents made or prepared in confidence and in connection with an attempt to settle the dispute.\n\nSection 58 provides a privilege for a person who confides in a minister of religion in respect of communications made for the purpose of receiving religious or spiritual advice, benefit, or comfort.\n\nSection 59 provides a privilege in criminal proceedings for a person who sees a medical practitioner or clinical psychologist for the purpose of treating a drug addiction or other condition or behaviour that may manifest itself in criminal conduct. The person has a privilege in respect of communications to the medical practitioner or clinical psychologist made for that purpose, in respect of information obtained by the medical practitioner or clinical psychologist for that purpose, and in prescriptions issued by the medical practitioner or clinical psychologist for that purpose.\n\nSection 60 provides a privilege to a person required to provide specific information if providing the information is reasonably likely to lead to the person's prosecution and punishment for any offence under New Zealand law (i.e. self-incrimination). Unless removed or limited by an enactment, whether expressly or by necessary implication, the person cannot be required to produce the information or be penalised for not doing so (whether or not the privilege is claimed). Because of section 51(3), the privilege does not apply to documents in existence when the information is required. The privilege cannot be claimed by corporations.\n\nSection 61 confers a discretion on a Judge to excuse a person from providing information likely to incriminate the person of an offence punishable under foreign law (other than an offence punishable merely by a fine).\n\nSection 62 requires a Judge to ensure that a party or witness is aware of the privilege against self-incrimination, if it appears to the Judge that the party or witness may be entitled to claim the privilege. The section also requires a claimant of the privilege to offer sufficient evidence to enable the claim to be assessed.\n\nSection 63 prevents parties to Anton Piller orders from claiming the privilege against self-incrimination. Anton Piller orders are made by a Judge in a civil proceeding and direct the defendant to let the plaintiff enter his or her premises in order to establish the presence of certain items, and if warranted, to remove them for safekeeping. The scope of the order has widened and can now include a direction that the party disclose information and documents that would not necessarily be found by the search alone. Under the Bill, there is no privilege for pre-existing documents. However, the privilege could be claimed if the party is required to answer potentially self-incriminating questions. If satisfied that self-incrimination is reasonably likely if a party provides the information sought by the order, the Judge must make an order that the information provided not be used in any criminal proceeding against the person providing the information.\n\nSection 64 provides that a person who informs an enforcement agency of possible offences in the reasonable expectation that his or her identity will not be disclosed and who is not called as a witness has a privilege in respect of information that would disclose the person's identity.\n\nSection 65 relates to waiver of privilege. The section provides that a privilege may be waived either expressly or implicitly; that, generally, a privilege is waived if the privilege holder discloses the privileged information in circumstances that are inconsistent with a claim of confidentiality; and that a specific instance of waiver occurs when the privilege holder acts so as to put the privileged information in issue in a proceeding.\n\nSection 66 relates to privilege jointly held by several holders and to privilege acquired by successors. A joint privilege holder may assert the privilege against third parties, may have access to the privileged material, may require the other holders not to disclose the privileged material, and may be ordered by a Judge not to disclose the privileged material. Personal representatives of deceased privilege holders and persons who acquire property related to a privilege have similar rights except that the right of access is limited to the extent that a Judge considers it justified.\n\nSection 67 requires a Judge to disallow a claim of privilege if satisfied there is a prima facie case that the privileged material was communicated or prepared for a dishonest purpose or to enable the commission of an offence. The section authorises a Judge to disallow a privilege if the Judge thinks that evidence of the privileged material is necessary to enable the defendant in a criminal proceeding to present an effective defence. But information disclosed in accordance with such disallowance cannot be used against the holder of the privilege in a proceeding. The section does not apply to the privilege against self-incrimination.\n\nSection 68 protects the identity of the sources of journalists in cases where journalists promise not to disclose their identity. The starting point is that the journalist cannot be compelled to reveal the identity of the source. However, a Judge of the High Court may order that the identity be revealed if satisfied that the public interest in doing this outweighs any likely adverse effect on the source or others as well as the public interest in the ability of the news media to communicate facts and opinions to the public.\n\nSection 69 confers a general discretion on the Judge to protect confidential communications or information from disclosure in a proceeding. To do this, the Judge must be of the view that the public interest in disclosing the information is outweighed by the public interest in preventing harm to persons affected by, or involved in obtaining, communicating, or receiving, the confidential information, or by the public interest in preventing harm to relationships of confidentiality, or by the public interest in maintaining the free flow of information. The section sets out a number of factors to which the Judge must have regard in balancing the interest of disclosure in proceedings against the interests in confidentiality.\n\nSection 70 confers a discretion on a Judge to direct that matters of State not be disclosed if justified in the public interest. The section clarifies that matters of State include information that may need protection for reasons recognised by the Official Information Act 1982.\n\nSection 71 sets out the general rule governing the eligibility and compellability of witnesses to give evidence. In general, any person\nis eligible to give evidence in a civil or criminal proceeding and can be compelled to give that evidence. Section 72 to 75 set out a number of exceptions to the general rule. \n\nSection 72 provides that a person acting as a Judge in a proceeding is not eligible to give evidence in that proceeding. It also provides that except with the permission of the Judge a person who is acting as a juror or counsel in a proceeding is not eligible to give evidence in that proceeding.\n\nSection 73 provides that a defendant in a criminal proceeding is not a compellable witness for the prosecution or the defence in that proceeding. An associated defendant is not compellable to give evidence for or against a defendant in a criminal proceeding unless the associated defendant is being tried separately from the defendant or the proceeding against the associated defendant has been determined.\n\nSection 74 provides that the Sovereign, the Governor-General, a Sovereign or Head of State of a foreign country, and a Judge (in respect of the Judge's conduct as a Judge) are not compellable to give evidence.\n\nSection 75 provides that bank officers cannot be compelled to produce banking records.\n\nSection 76 prohibits the giving of evidence about the deliberation of a jury, except in very limited circumstances. The section requires the Judge to be satisfied, in addition to the requirement that the evidence tends to establish that a juror has acted in breach of the juror's duty, that in the circumstances of the particular case the public interest in protecting the confidentiality of the jury deliberations is outweighed by the public interest in avoiding or remedying any miscarriage of justice.\n\nSection 77 requires a witness aged 12 years or over to take an oath or make an affirmation before giving evidence. A witness in a proceeding who is under 12 years must make a promise to tell the truth before giving evidence. Section 77(3) enables the Judge in a proceeding to permit evidence to be given without the witness taking an oath, making an affirmation, or making a promise to tell the truth.\n\nSection 78 requires a person acting as an interpreter to take an oath or make an affirmation before acting as an interpreter. An interpreter includes a person who provides communication assistance.\n\nSection 79 makes provision for support persons for complainants, child witnesses and other witnesses in criminal proceedings, and regulates their conduct.\n\nSections 80 and 81 describe when communication assistance is to be provided to a defendant in criminal proceedings, and regulate the provision of that assistance. Section 80(5) proves that wilfully giving false or misleading statements by a person providing communication assistance amounts to perjury.\n\nSection 82 empowers a Judge to hold a view or, if there is a jury, order a view, if the Judge considers that the view is in the interests of justice. A view is defined as an inspection by the Judge or, if there is a jury, by the Judge and jury, of a place or thing that is not in the courtroom.\n\nSection 83 provides that the ordinary way for a witness to give evidence is orally in a courtroom or, in certain circumstances, by giving evidence in the form of an affidavit or by reading a written statement in a courtroom.\n\nSection 84 sets out the order in which a witness gives evidence. A witness first gives evidence in chief and may then be cross-examined, and finally may be re-examined.\n\nSection 85 allows the Judge in any proceeding to disallow or permit a witness to refuse to answer any question that the Judge considers intimidating, improper, unfair, misleading, needlessly repetitive, or expressed in language that is too complicated for the witness to\nunderstand.\n\nSection 86 provides that a person commits contempt of court who prints or publishes material relating to a question that has been\ndisallowed or in breach of any order of the Judge made in relation to a question that a witness is not obliged to answer.\n\nSection 87 and 88 restrict questioning, the giving of evidence, or the making of statements or remarks about the precise address of any\nwitness and the occupation of a complainant in a sexual case, respectively. In general, such questioning and evidence and the making of any such statements or remarks, is prohibited unless the Judge considers that exclusion would be contrary to the interests of justice.\n\nSection 89 restricts the use of leading questions in examination in chief or re-examination of a witness.\n\nSection 90 regulates the use of written statements in questioning witnesses.\n\nSection 91 enables the editing of statements by parties to exclude evidence ruled by the Judge to be inadmissible.\n\nSection 92 sets out the cross-examination duties of the parties. A party must cross-examine a witness on substantial matters that contradict the evidence of the witness if the witness is, or might be, in a position to give admissible evidence on those matters. The section also deals with the effect of a failure by a party to comply with his or her cross-examination duties and the orders which may be made by the Judge.\n\nSection 93 enables a Judge to limit cross-examination in any proceeding of a witness who has the same, or substantially the same, interest in the proceedings as the cross-examining party.\n\nSection 94 enables a party to cross-examine a witness called by that party if the Judge determines that the witness is hostile and gives permission for the cross-examination.\n\nSection 95 prohibits a defendant in a criminal proceeding that is a sexual case or is a proceeding concerning domestic violence from personally cross-examining a complainant or a child who is a witness. The section also enables the Judge to make an order in any civil or criminal proceeding preventing a party to the proceeding from personally cross-examining a particular witness.\n\nSection 96 regulates the cross-examination of a witness on a previous statement made by that witness.\n\nSection 97 regulates the matters that may be subject to re-examination of any witness.\n\nSection 98 prohibits a party from offering further evidence after closing that party's case, except with the permission of the Judge.\n\nSection 99 empowers a Judge to recall a witness who has given evidence in a proceeding if the Judge considers it in the interests of justice to do so.\n\nSection 100 empowers a Judge to ask a witness any questions that, in the opinion of the Judge, justice requires, and provides for further cross-examination and re-examination on any matter raised by the Judge's questions.\n\nSection 101 regulates the manner in which juries may put a question to a witness.\n\nSection 102 deals with the application of the subpart. It provides that the general rules dealing with alternative ways of giving evidence are subject to a number of provisions dealing with specific situations.\n\nSection 103 empowers a Judge to give directions in any proceeding that a witness is to give evidence in chief and be cross-examined in the ordinary way or in an alternative way as provided in section 105.\n\nSection 104 requires a chambers hearing, at which each party has an opportunity to be heard, if an application is made for directions under Section 103.\n\nSection 105 sets out alternative ways in which a witness may give evidence. This includes behind a screen, via CCTV or video conference call, or by video record.\n\nSection 106 regulates the use of video record evidence (which is one of the alternative ways of giving evidence) authorised by section 105.\n\nSection 107 provides a child witness in criminal proceedings the automatic right to give evidence in an alternative way. Sections 107A and 107B allows parties to request the child witness to give evidence in the ordinary way, or in a mixture of the ordinary way and an alternative way respectively, if it is in the interests of justice to do so.\n\nSections 108 and 109 repeat the special provisions relating to the giving of evidence by undercover police officers. Those provisions are designed to ensure that the identity and place of residence of an undercover police officer is kept secret, except in very limited circumstances.\n\nSections 110 to 118 set out the special provisions relating to the giving of evidence by anonymous witnesses and witnesses in the police witness protection programme.\n\nSection 120 allows an undercover police officer or an anonymous\nwitness to sign statements under an assumed name.\n\nSection 121 deals with the topic of corroboration. It provides that it is not necessary in a criminal proceeding for the evidence on which the prosecution relies to be corroborated, except with respect to the offences of perjury, false oaths, false statements or declarations, and treason. The section also deals with the question of when a warning or direction relating to the absence of corroboration should be given.\n\nSection 122 requires the Judge, if he or she considers that any evidence given in a criminal proceeding tried with a jury may be unreliable, to warn the jury of the need for caution in deciding whether to accept the evidence or the weight to be given to it.\n\nSection 123 provides for the giving of a direction to a jury, in a case where evidence is given in an alternative way or in accordance with a witness anonymity order, or in a case where the defendant is not permitted to personally cross-examine the defendant. The direction must, amongst other matters, indicate that the jury must not draw any adverse inference against the defendant because of that manner of giving evidence or questioning.\n\nSection 124 deals with the question of when, in a criminal proceeding tried before a jury where there is evidence that a defendant has lied either before or during the proceeding, a judicial warning should be given about lies and the form of any direction. \n\nSection 125 deals with the giving of judicial directions in relation to children's evidence. In general, evidence given by children is to be treated in the same way as evidence by adults, in the absence of expert evidence to the contrary. \n\nSection 126 requires the Judge, in a criminal proceeding tried with a jury in which the case against the defendant depends wholly or substantially on the correctness of 1 or more visual or voice identifications of the defendant or of any other person, to warn the jury of the special need for caution before finding the defendant guilty in reliance on the correctness of any such identification.\n\nSection 127 relates to the directions that may be given to a jury if issues arise in a sexual case tried before a jury about a delay in making, or failure to make, a complaint in respect of the offence.\n\nSection 128 provides that judicial notice may be taken of certain facts.\n\nSection 129 allows a Judge to admit, in matters of public history, literature, science, or art, certain published documents without compliance with the rules relating to hearsay evidence and opinion evidence.\n\nSection 130 sets out a procedure which enables a party, on giving notice to the other parties, to offer a document in evidence without calling a witness to produce the document.\n\nSection 133 enables evidence of a voluminous document or compilation of documents to be given, after giving notice to the other parties and with the permission of the Judge, by means of a summary or chart.\n\nSection 135 deals with the admission of translations of documents\nand transcripts of information or other matters.\n\nSection 136 relates to the proof of signatures on attested documents.\n\nSection 137 relates to the status of any evidence provided by\nmachine, device, or technical process.\n\nSection 138 provides that documents purporting to be public documents or copies of or extracts from such documents are, if sealed or certified in a certain manner, presumed to be authentic, in the absence of proof to the contrary.\n\nSection 139 contains provisions relating to the proof of convictions, acquittals, and other judicial proceedings.\n\nSection 140 relates to the proof of a conviction by use of fingerprints.\n\nSection 141 provides that certain documents purporting to be New Zealand or foreign official documents that have been printed or published in a manner specified in the section, are presumed to be authentic, in the absence of proof to the contrary.\n\nSection 142 makes similar provision in respect of certain official acts notified or published in the manner specified in the section.\n\nSection 143 contains similar rules to section 142 in relation to New Zealand and foreign official seals and signatures.\n\nSection 144 sets out a procedure for admitting in evidence a statute or other written law, proclamation, treaty, or act of State of a foreign country.\n\nSections 145 to 147 implement the Hague Convention Abolishing the Requirement of Legalisation for Foreign Public Documents.\n\nSections 148 and 149 enables certain documents admissible under Australian law to be admitted in evidence in New Zealand.\n\nSection 201 empowers the making of regulations necessary for the purposes of the Act.\n\nSection 202 provides for a periodic review of the operation of the Act by the Law Commission.\n\nSections 203 to 214 set out transitional provisions.\n\nSection 215 provides that the enactments specified in Schedule 1 are repealed. This included the Evidence Act 1908 in its entirety, as well as some sections of the Crimes Act 1961, Juries Act 1981, and Summary Proceedings Act 1957.\n\nClause 216 provides that the enactments specified in Schedule 2 are consequentially amended.\n\nPrior to the Act, evidence law in New Zealand was largely Judge-made, comprising decisions that were made in response to the circumstances of particular cases. The statutory provisions dealing with evidence were contained in a number of statutes, and have been reformed on a piecemeal basis, responding to issues as they arise. The resulting complexity and inconsistency of the law of evidence results in undue legal argument, expense, and delays in proceedings to accommodate arguments over issues of admissibility.\n\nIn August 1989, the Law Commission was instructed by Minister of Justice Geoffrey Palmer to make the law of evidence as clear, simple, and accessible as practicable, and to facilitate the fair, just, and speedy judicial resolution of disputes. With this purpose in mind the Law Commission was asked to examine the statutory and common law governing evidence in proceedings before courts and tribunals and to make recommendations for its reform with a view to codification.\n\nIn April 1991, the Law Commission published the first of a series of discussion papers on aspects of evidence law. This paper dealt with the principles on reform, codification, and hearsay. Between then and 1997, the Law Commission published a number of further discussion papers on major aspects of evidence law: expert evidence and opinion evidence, privilege, documentary evidence, character and credibility, the evidence of children and other vulnerable witnesses. Alongside the review, the Commission published discussion papers on the privilege against self-incrimination and police questioning in relation to a review on criminal procedure.\n\nThe work of the Law Commission culminated on 24 August 1999, when the Commission published its final report entitled \"Evidence – Reform of the Law\". Included was a draft Evidence Code, to which the Act is based on.\n\nThe Evidence Bill was introduced in the House of Representatives on 3 May 2005. The bill passed its first reading a week later on 10 May. The Justice and Electoral Select Committee scrutinised the bill, reporting back on 24 October 2006 that the bill should be passed with amendments. The Bill passed its second reading on 15 November 2006 and its third and final reading on 23 November 2006. The Bill passed all three readings unanimously.\n\nThe Bill received the Royal Assent on 4 December 2006, becoming the Evidence Act 2006. Some transitional provisions came into force on 18 July 2007, with the rest of the Act coming into force on 1 August 2007.\n\nSection 202 of the Act requires the Minister of Justice to instruct the Law Commission to review the Act every 5 years. The minimum terms of reference include examining the operation of the Act's provision since the last review, and whether the provision should be retained, amended or repealed.\n\nThe first review was initiated in February 2012, with the Law Commission reporting back in March 2013. The resulting recommendations were incorporated into the Evidence Amendment Act 2016.\n\nThe second review was initiated in February 2017, with the Law Commission required to report back by February 2019.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849552", "title": "FEC v. Akins", "text": "FEC v. Akins\n\nFederal Election Commission v. Akins, 524 U.S. 11 (1998), was a United States Supreme Court case deciding that an individual could sue for a violation of a federal law pursuant to a statute enacted by the U.S. Congress which created a general right to access certain information.\n\nThe plaintiffs were registered voters who had asked the defendant Federal Elections Commission (\"FEC\") to determine that an organization called the American Israel Public Affairs Committee (\"AIPAC\") was a \"political committee\" subject to certain regulations and reporting requirements under the Federal Election Campaign Act, because AIPAC had crossed certain spending thresholds. The FEC determined that AIPAC had indeed crossed those thresholds, but still did not require it to make the required reports because the organization was issue-oriented, not campaign-related. The plaintiffs sought review in the District Court, which granted summary judgment for the FEC; this ruling was affirmed by a panel of the Court of Appeals, but the Court of Appeals \"en banc\" reversed. The government sought certiorari, and challenged the plaintiff's standing on the grounds that the plaintiffs had suffered no 'injury in fact'; that if the plaintiffs had any injury it was not fairly traceable to the FEC decision; and that a decision in favor of the plaintiffs would not redress their injury.\n\nDid the plaintiffs suffer an injury in fact sufficient to establish standing?\n\nThe Court, in an opinion by Justice Breyer, held that Congress has, by statute, allowed \"any party aggrieved by an order of the Commission\" to file a suit, which is a broad grant; not getting the requested information is an \"injury in fact\" just like the denial of any other information which is statutorily required to be provided to citizens by the government. The grievance is a \"generalized grievance,\" but the harm is concrete enough to overcome this, and the harm is fairly traceable to the FEC – even though the FEC may find other grounds not to make AIPAC provide the info. (\"[W]here a harm is concrete, though widely shared, the Court has found 'injury in fact.'\" \"Federal Election Commission v. Akins\" 524 U.S. 11, 24 (1998))\n\nThe Court distinguished this case from lawsuits where an individual seeks relief based on mere taxpayer standing - an insufficient ground for standing to sue. It instead employed a \"zone of interests test,\" asking whether the injury asserted fell into the zone of interests protected by the statute.\n\nThe case was remanded to the FEC to review its definition of 'members.' The Court noted that the FEC was producing new guidelines regarding this issue, which would address it and not require a new legal precedent. The plaintiffs were bitterly disappointed by the decision not to intervene, as the effort to have AIPAC legally declared a political action committee was a higher priority than the (successful) effort to show standing to have filed this lawsuit in the first place. While they repeatedly attempted filings to have the case re-opened, these were entirely rejected, and in 2010 a Federal court in D.C. ruled that the lawsuit had no merit as electoral law and it was officially and finally dismissed.\n\nJustice Scalia wrote a dissenting opinion asserting that the fact the statute differentiated between 'any person' (in defining the class of persons who could file a complaint with the FEC over a violation) and 'any party aggrieved' (in defining the class of persons who could bring suit in federal court over the FEC's decision on the complaint) demonstrated the limiting force of the latter provision—anyone could file a complaint with the FEC if they believed a violation had occurred, but only parties who had actually been aggrieved (suffered a particularized injury) as a result of the FEC's decision on the complaint could sue.\n\n"}
{"id": "24786351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24786351", "title": "Faces of Freedom", "text": "Faces of Freedom\n\nThe \"Faces of Freedom\" photo exhibition is a collection of photographs captured by photo-journalist, filmmaker and human rights educator U. Roberto (Robin) Romano, during his travels to India, Nepal and Pakistan. Romano explores the exploitation of child labor in the production of handmade rugs in coordination with multiple international organizations, such as the World Bank, UNICEF, International Labour Organization and others to reduce the number of child laborers in that industry. The exhibit has been shown in many United States cities since its first exhibit in 2009. Faces of Freedom has been included in CNN Freedom Projects of modern slavery.\n\nTo combat exploitation of child labor, The World Bank with UNICEF, International Labour Organization (ILO) and Understanding Children's Work Initiative to bring awareness of the scope of the problem. The World Bank estimates that there are 218 million children who are victim to unfair child labor practices. The children's ages range from five to seventeen years of age. The handmade rug industry is one of industries involved in exploitation of child labor. The World Bank works with country-based and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) in an effort to \"combat child labor.\"\n\nThe United Nations and the International Labour Organization consider child labor exploitative, with the UN stipulating, in article 32 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child that:\"...States Parties recognize the right of the child to be protected from economic exploitation and from performing any work that is likely to be hazardous or to interfere with the child's education, or to be harmful to the child's health or physical, mental, spiritual, moral or social development.\" Although globally there is an estimated 250 million children working.\nAccording to the census in 1990 nearly 18% of all the children in America are working in different organizations. The Supreme Court banned child labor in 1916 but the law became visible in 1941. The labor department is also not paying attention to the child labor in USA therefore children are still employed in the organizations. The age of the children who are employed is between 15 years to 17 years. They are nearly 3.7 million children who work in different factories. There is an interesting fact that more than 600 children died in work related accidents.\n\nU. Roberto Romano, a photographer, filmmaker and humans right activist, traveled to India, Nepal and Pakistan to record the plight of child laborers in the handmade rug industry. He also gathered photographs and stories of children who have been rescued by the GoodWeave organization, previously known as Rugmark.\n\nThe Faces of Freedom exhibit is a collection of photos by U. Roberto Romano that provides insight into the lives, poor living conditions and faces of child rug-weavers of South Asia. Messages of hope are portrayed in the photographs and stories of children that were assisted by the GoodWeave program to attain school education. A selection of handmade rugs made without child labor is also exhibited.\n\nAfter initial showings in San Francisco, New York and Washington, D.C., the collection has been exhibited in major cities across the United States since 2009.\n\nIn late 2010, the Faces of Freedom exhibit was featured the ABC television network show Good Morning America. On April 18, 2011, Faces of Freedom was covered in CNN Freedom Project’s of modern slavery. The piece appears on CNN website with a slideshow of images of GoodWeave’s Faces of Freedom photo exhibition.\n\nU. Roberto (Robin) Romano is an investigative filmmaker, where he has been director, director of photography, still photographer and/or producer in the following efforts:\n\nThe Harvest\n\nDark Side of Chocolate\n\nFields of Peril\n\nChildren in the Fields\n\nStolen Childhoods\n\n"}
{"id": "5617413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5617413", "title": "Fibrosa Spolka Akcyjna v Fairbairn Lawson Combe Barbour Ltd", "text": "Fibrosa Spolka Akcyjna v Fairbairn Lawson Combe Barbour Ltd\n\nFibrosa Spolka Akcyjna v Fairbairn Lawson Combe Barbour Ltd [1942] UKHL 4 also known as the Fibrosa case, is a leading English decision of the House of Lords on contract law and the doctrines of frustration.\n\nFibrosa was a textile company based in Wilno, Poland (today Vilnius, capital of Lithuania). In July 1939, it entered into a contract with Fairbairn, a British firm, to buy industrial machinery for its plant in Gdynia for £4,800. The contract was signed on 12 July 1939 and, the following week, Fibrosa paid an advanced payment of £1,000. The machines were expected to arrive within three to four months.\n\nOn 1 September 1939, Poland was invaded by Nazi Germany. The United Kingdom declared war on Germany on 3 September, entering World War II. The following week, Fibrosa's agents contacted Fairbairn to request that the initial £1,000 payment be refunded as the contract's execution had become impossible. Fairbairn refused, citing the current law. On 1 May 1940, Fibrosa's agents initiated legal proceedings.\n\nThe lower courts held, taking as their authority \"Chandler v Webster\" (1904) that where a contract has been frustrated by a supervening event, \"the loss lies where it falls\", with the result that sums paid or rights accrued before that event are not to be surrendered, but that all obligations falling due for performance after that event are discharged. Consequently, the lower courts rejected Fibrosa's claim to recover the £1,000.\n\nThe House of Lords found in favour of Fibrosa. Viscount Simon was critical of the \"Chandler\" case and found that it would apply only where there has been no failure of the consideration. However, in the circumstances, there was a failure of the consideration as Fibrosa had received none of the machinery ordered. This frustrated contract would not be subject the rule in the Chandler decision, and so Fibrosa would succeed.\n\nLord Wright said the claim was based on unjust enrichment.\n\nIn essence, having decided that the contract was frustrated (as to continue would have been treasonable), the court held that the entire deposit was recoverable by Fibrosa, given the total absence of consideration from the English supplier. However, this decision raised more questions: \"What if some machinery had been delivered? What if Fairbain had invested heavily in plant and materials prior to the contract?\". The UK Parliament recognised that this war against the Nazis would give rise to numerous similar claims so, with admirable speed, they enacted the Law Reform (Frustrated Contracts) Act 1943, which provided that:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4366352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4366352", "title": "Frank Reddaway Ltd v Banham", "text": "Frank Reddaway Ltd v Banham\n\nFrank Reddaway Ltd. v. George Banham, [1896] A.C. 199 is a famous decision of the House of Lords on the tort of passing off. The Court held that purely descriptive product names such as \"camel hair belting\" can acquire secondary meaning, and consequently, is protected from passing off.\n\nFrank Reddaway made machine belting which he sold under the name \"Camel Hair Belting\" for many years. George Banham was a former employee of Reddaway who left to start his own business manufacturing machine belting which he also called \"Camel Hair Belting\". \n\nReddaway sued Banham for passing off. He argued that there was a large portion of the public who recognized the name \"Camel Hair Belting\" as his product. He was also able to demonstrate that there were people who were getting the products confused.\n\nThe Court of Appeal held that the name was merely descriptive and so could not be protected. \n\nThe House of Lords overturned the decision of the Court of Appeal. Lord Herschell held that the words had acquired a secondary meaning through its broad notoriety, and that the public clearly associated the name \"Camel Hair Belting\" with the exact product produced by Reddaway.\n\nLord Herschell stated: \n\n"}
{"id": "35116273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35116273", "title": "Ghanaian nationality law", "text": "Ghanaian nationality law\n\nGhana amended its nationality law in 2000, to the 2000 Ghana Citizen Act Dual Citizenship Scheme, which came into effect from Friday, 1 November 2002, in accordance with the provisions of the Citizenship Act 2002. Applicants eligible for dual citizenship are those who hold citizenship of any country in addition to the citizenship of Ghana. In these instances, all applicants are required by law to provide evidence of their Ghanaian nationality or their country of birth. Its intention was to increase immigration of skilled labour, but the law has been criticised for not giving full citizens rights as native-born citizens.\n\nIn 2000 Citizen Act Dual Citizenship Scheme with effect from Friday, November 1, 2002 in accordance with the provisions of the Citizenship Act 2002:\n\nPeople who have been convicted of criminal acts are ineligible for Ghanaian nationality.\n\nThe 2000 Citizen Act has been criticized for being inflexible and not allowing full citizenship rights to people of dual nationality.\n\n(1) A person born before 6 March 1957 is a citizen of Ghana by birth if—\n\n(1) A person born on or after 6 March 1957 and before 22 August 1969 is a citizen of Ghana by birth if—\n\n(2) A person is not a citizen of Ghana for the purposes of subsection (1) of this section if at the time of his/her birth the parent, grandparent or great-grandparent through whom the citizenship is claimed has lost his/her citizenship of Ghana.\n\n(3) A person born on or after 6 March 1957 and before 22 August 1969 is a citizen of Ghana by birth if—\n\nA person is a citizen of Ghana by birth if he/she was born in or outside Ghana on or after 22 August 1969 and before 24 September 1979 and at the date of his birth either of his/her parents was a citizen of Ghana.\n\nA person born on or after 24 September 1979 and before 7 January 1993 is a citizen of Ghana by birth if—\n\nA person is a citizen of Ghana by birth if he/she was born on 7 January 1993 or born after that date in or outside Ghana at the date of his/her birth only if either of his/her parents or one grandparent was or is a citizen of Ghana.\n\nA child of not more than 16 years of age neither of whose parents is a citizen of Ghana who is adopted by a citizen of Ghana shall, by virtue of the adoption, be a citizen of Ghana.\n\n(1) A citizen of age and capacity of any approved country may upon an application, and with the approval of the President, be registered as a citizen of Ghana if he/she satisfies the President that—\n\n(2) Where upon an application for registration after five years of marriage it appears to the Minister that the marriage had been entered into primarily for the purpose of obtaining the registration, the Minister shall request the applicant to establish that the marriage was entered into in good faith.\n\nThe President shall register as a citizen of Ghana a child of any person who becomes a citizen of Ghana by registration or naturalisation upon application of the parent or guardian of the child.\n\n(1) A person registered under section 1 or 2 is a citizen by registration from the date stated on the certificate of registration.\n\n(2) The date stated on the certificate of registration shall be the date of the taking of the Ghana oath of allegiance.\n\n(1) With the approval of the President; a certificate of naturalisation may be granted to a person of age and capacity who satisfies the President that he/she is qualified under section 1 and 2 of this Act for naturalisation.\n\n(2) A person to whom a certificate of naturalisation is granted under subsection (1) shall take the oath of allegiance and become a citizen by naturalisation from the date on which the oath of allegiance is taken.\n\n(1) Subject to subsection (2) of this section, a person qualifies for naturalisation if—\n\n(2) The President, in other special circumstances as he thinks fit and upon the approval of the President, may modify, vary or waive any one of the qualifications for naturalisation set out in this section except the qualification specified in subsection 1 (b) and 1 (e) of this section.\n\nThe President shall publish in the \"Gazette\" within three months of any application, registration or grant of a certificate of naturalisation, the names, particulars and other details of a person who —\n\n(1) A citizen of Ghana may hold the citizenship of any other country in addition to his citizenship of Ghana.\n\n(2) Without prejudice to article 94(2)(a) of the Constitution, no citizen of Ghana shall qualify to be appointed as a holder of any office specified in this subsection if he/she holds the citizenship of any other country in addition to his/her citizenship of Ghana—\n\n(3) A citizen of Ghana who—\n\n(4) A citizen of Ghana who is also a citizen of any other country shall whilst in Ghana be subject to the laws of Ghana as any other citizen.\n\n(5) A citizen who has lost his/her citizenship as a result of the law in Ghana which prohibited the holding of dual citizenship by a Ghanaian may on an application to the President be issued with a certificate of citizenship which shall be effective from the date of issue.\n\n(6) A certificate issued under subsection (5) shall specify whether the citizenship is by birth, adoption, registration or naturalisation.\n\n(1) If any citizen of Ghana of age and capacity who is also a citizen of another country makes a declaration of renunciation of citizenship of Ghana, the Minister shall cause the declaration to be registered; and upon the registration, that person shall cease to be a citizen of Ghana.\n\n(2) Where the law of a country requires a person who marries a citizen of that country to renounce the citizenship of his/her own country by virtue of that marriage, a citizen of Ghana who is deprived of his/her citizenship of Ghana by virtue of that marriage shall, on the dissolution of that marriage, become a citizen of Ghana.\n\nThe President of Ghana and High Court of Ghana may on an application by the Attorney-General for the purpose, deprive a person who is a citizen of Ghana, otherwise than by birth or adoption of that citizenship on the ground—\n\nThe President may, on an application for naturalisation made by or on behalf of any person with respect to whose citizenship of Ghana a doubt exists under Part I of this Act, certify that the person is a citizen of Ghana and a certificate issued under this section shall be prima facie evidence that the person was such a citizen at the date indicated in the certificate, but without prejudice to any evidence that he/she was such a citizen at an earlier date.\n\n(1) A document purporting to be a notice, certificate, order or declaration or an entry in a register, or a subscription to an oath of allegiance, given, granted or made under this Act shall be received in evidence.\n\n(2) The evidence may be given by the production of a certified true copy of the document by the person.\n\n(3) An entry in a register made under this Act shall be received as evidence of the matters stated in the entry.\n\nAny person who for the purpose of procuring anything to be done or not to be done under this Act makes any statement which he/she knows to be false in a material particular, or recklessly makes any statement which is false in a material particular, commits an offence and is liable on summary conviction to a fine of not less than GH¢500,000 and not exceeding GH¢5 million or a term of imprisonment not exceeding 12 months or to both.\n\nThe Minister may by legislative instrument make Regulations for—\n\n(1) In this Act unless the context otherwise requires—\n\n(2) A reference in this Act to Ghana in relation to a birth or residence before 6 March 1957 shall be read as a reference to the territories comprised in Ghana on that date.\n\n(3) For the purposes of this Act, a person born aboard a registered ship or aircraft or aboard an unregistered ship or aircraft of the government of any country, shall be deemed to have been born in the place in which the ship or aircraft was registered or in that country.\n\n(4) For the purposes of this Act, a person is of age if he has attained the age of eighteen years and is of capacity if he is of sound mind.\n\n(1) The Ghana Nationality Act, 1971 (Act 361) as amended by the—\n\n(2) Notwithstanding the repeal in subsection (1) of this section any Regulations made under Act 361 or continued in force under that Act and in force immediately before the coming into force of this Act shall continue in force until amended or revoked under this Act.\n\n(3) The repeal of the enactments specified in subsection (1) does not affect the validity of any action taken under any of the enactments before the repeal.\n\n(4) Any person who immediately before the coming into force of this Act is a citizen by adoption, registration or naturalisation acquired validly under any enactment before the coming into force of this Act shall continue to hold the citizenship subject to the Constitution and the provisions of this Act.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22513359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22513359", "title": "Global Access Point", "text": "Global Access Point\n\nGlobal Access Point, LLC is a multi-site data center and network operator that designs, builds, and manages data centers, network infrastructure and fiber assets for mid-sized to large enterprises as well as global telecommunication and cloud providers. Their Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) wholesale data center model offers flexible data center and network design, highly reliable power and cooling, and robust connectivity.\n\nBesides their flagship operation in South Bend, Indiana (known as \"Union Station Technology Center\" or just \"Union Station\"), Global Access Point operates satellite deployments in Chicago, Indianapolis, and St. Louis, and has announced plans to expand its South Bend operation into the next-door Studebaker manufacturing plant redevelopment in South Bend's Renaissance District.\n\nWhat is now Global Access Point's flagship facility, Union Station, was built in 1929 in South Bend, Indiana. The building operated as a train station until 1972, and remained vacant until 1979 when Global Access Point's founder Kevin Smith purchased and renovated the building. For several years, parts of the building operated as event and manufacturing space. Because of Union Station's close proximity to Chicago, as well as one of the nation's largest fiber corridors on the adjacent railroad line, Mr. Smith began leasing space to telecommunications carriers to operate regeneration equipment in the late 1980s. Operations expanded in the early 2000s as Union Station became a colocation facility and later expanded into modular data suites and network operations. Today, Union Station is home to multiple national and international companies, primarily in the cloud, finance, insurance, life science, and research sectors, as well as 17+ telecommunications carriers (as of June, 2016.)\n\nGlobal Access Point's flagship operation is located in South Bend, Indiana (Union Station Technology Center). The data center/carrier hotel has 93,000 square ft of private and co-location space, houses more than 17+ network service providers and multiple managed service providers.\n\nGlobal Access Point also has a second location in South Bend, the Studebaker factory houses 150,000 square ft of private and co-location space.\n\nGlobal Access Point operates a satellite deployment out of 350 E. Cermak in Chicago, IL. The data center/carrier hotel has 150,000 square ft of private and co-location space, houses over 1000 network service providers and multiple managed service providers.\n\nGlobal Access Point operates a satellite deployment out of 800 Oliver in Indianapolis, IN. The data center/carrier hotel has 2,500 square ft of private and co-location space, houses more than 20+ network providers and multiple managed service providers.\n\nGlobal Access Point operates a satellite deployment out of 900 Walnut in St. Louis, MO. The data center/carrier hotel has 110,000 square ft of private and co-location space, houses more than 25+ network providers and multiple managed service providers.\n\n"}
{"id": "1459586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1459586", "title": "Guan Zhong", "text": "Guan Zhong\n\nGuan Zhong (; c. 720–645 BC) was a chancellor and reformer of the State of Qi during the Spring and Autumn period of Chinese history. His given name was Yiwu (). \"Zhong\" was his courtesy name. He is mainly remembered for his reforms as chancellor under Duke Huan of Qi, as well as his friendship with his colleague Bao Shuya, though his reputation remained controversial among the Confucians of his time.\n\nThrough Guan Zhong's reforms and skilful diplomacy Qi became the most powerful of the feudal states and Duke Huan became the first of the Five Hegemons. Though knowledge of his reforms is limited, in particular he instituted a famous fiscal policy known as \"balancing the light and the heavy\", associated with salt and iron monopolies. Though otherwise a diverse work, the Guanzi compilation making use of his name makes similar such recommendations.\n\nGuan Zhong was born in Yingshang, and became acquainted with Bao Shuya at an early age, when they became business partners. The Shiji records that, as partner, Guan Zhong often took more than his share of the profits, in effect cheating Bao Shuya. Bao, however, recognised his impoverished background and was not offended.\n\nSubsequently, Guan Zhong was appointed tutor to Prince Jiu, the younger brother of the ruling Duke Xiang of Qi. Bao Shuya, meanwhile, became tutor to Jiu's younger brother, Prince Xiaobai.\n\nIn 686 BC, Duke Xiang was murdered in a palace coup by two of his ministers, who then installed Gongsun Wuzhi, a scion of the ducal house, as the new Duke. Recognising that they were in mortal danger, both Prince Jiu and Prince Xiaobai fled with their respective tutors. Prince Jiu fled to the State of Lu, while Prince Xiaobai went to the State of Ju.\n\nIn 685 BC, Gongsun Wuzhi himself was killed in another palace coup, and the ministers of Qi sent envoys to Ju, hoping to receive Prince Xiaobai back and succeed to the duchy. On hearing of this, Lu also sent Prince Jiu towards Qi, while Guan Zhong intercepted Prince Xiaobai to prevent his return. In the resulting conflict, Guan Zhong shot an arrow at Xiaobai which hit his belt buckle. Xiaobai pretended to cough blood and collapse, tricking Guan Zhong into thinking he was mortally wounded.\n\nEventually, Xiaobai won the race back to Qi, and was installed as Duke. The State of Lu attempted to enforce Prince Jiu's claim, but was defeated in battle, after which Qi forced Lu to execute Prince Jiu and send Guan Zhong back as a prisoner. Xiaobai originally wanted to execute Guan Zhong as well, but Bao Shuya strongly recommended sparing him and elevating him to chancellor, even though that meant he would outrank Bao himself. Xiaobai was eventually convinced.\n\nGuan Zhong was disparagingly identified with the Legalist school as a result of his administrative reforms. Though actually legalistic philosophy did not develop until hundreds of years later, R. Eno of Indiana University does consider that \"If one were to trace the origins of Legalism as far back as possible, it might be appropriate to date its beginnings to the prime ministership of Guan Zhong, chief aide to the first of the hegemonic lords of the Spring Autumn period, Duke Huan of Qi (r. 685–643).\"\n\nHe is said to have indulged in a luxurious lifestyle. Guan Zhong was also a pragmatist who did not equate a ruler's moral purity with his ability to govern. Duke Huan, who loved hunting and women, asked Guan if these indulgences would harm his hegemony, to which Guan replied that the ruler's love for luxury would not harm his hegemony. It would only be harmed through inappropriate staffing and misuse of talent. One passage \"recounts\" Confucius as considering him \"mediocre\" for his lack of frugality and knowledge of ritual.\n\nDespite all this, he might be considered, \"at least in most respects\" an \"ideal Confucian minister\". Guan Zhong is reported to have advised Duke Huan: 'Summon the wavering with courtesy and cherish the remote with virtuous conduct. So long as your virtuous conduct and courtesy never falter, there will be no one who does not cherish you.'\" When Duke Huan was approached to dethrone the ruling clans of his state, Guan Zhong advised him that he had won their adherence through politeness (\"li\") and trustworthiness (\"xin\").\n\nWhen Confucius's students criticized Guan Zhong as lacking propriety, crediting his ambition and achievement Confucius said of him that \"It was due to Guan Zhong that Duke Huan was able to assemble the feudal lords on numerous occasions without resorting to the use of his war chariots. Such was his goodness! … Through having Guan Zhong as his minister Duke Huan became protector over the feudal lords. He brought unity and order to the entire realm so that even today people enjoy his gifts to them … I am afraid that without Guan Zhong we would be folding our lapels right-over-left (traditional Chinese clothing customarily is folded left-over-right).\"\n\nGuan Zhong started multiple reforms in the State of Qi. Politically, he centralized power and divided the state into different villages, each carrying out a specific trade. Instead of relying on the traditional aristocracy for manpower, he applied levies to the village units directly. He also developed a better method for choosing talent to be governors. Under Guan Zhong, Qi shifted administrative responsibility from hereditary aristocrats to professional bureaucrats. He is also credited for creating the first official government sponsored brothel known as \"女市\" which funded the government treasury.\n\nDuring his term of office, the State of Qi became much stronger. The \"Zuo Zhuan\" records that in 660 BC, Guan Zhong urged Duke Huan of Qi to attack the small neighboring State of Xing which was under attack from Quan Rong nomads, a non-Chinese Rong tribes. Later, in 652 BC he advised the duke not to ally with a vassal ruler's son who wished to depose his father. Duke Huan often listened to Guan Zhong's sound advice such that his status amongst other Zhou vassal states rose. As a result, the duke came to be recognized as the first Hegemon or leader of the vassal alliance.\n\nIn recognition of Guan Zhong's service, Duke Huan gave him the honorary title of \"Godfather\" (仲父). Same title was later given to Lü Buwei by Prince Zheng, the future Qin Shi Huang.\n\nUnder Guan's guidance several important economic reforms were introduced. He created a uniform tax code and also used state power to encourage the production of salt and iron.\n\nHe believed that monopolizing the nature resources was helpful on improving the government income, with fewer complaints from the public than raising taxes. The strategy was described by himself to the Duke of Huan as “managing the mountain and the sea（官山海）”, which mainly refers to iron mine from the mountain and salt from the sea. Under his policy, private business who produce salt by boiling seawater and iron by mining must sell all outputs to the government, and the government resell refined salt and iron products, with huge price gap, to all household in State of Qi.\n\nHistorians usually credit Guan Zhong for introducing state monopolies controlling salt and iron.\n\nIn the record of Guanzi Chapter 84, Duke of Huan wanted to restrain the threat from State of Hengshan（衡山国）and asked Guan for solution. State of Hengshan was famous for its weapon production. Guan then ordered officials to buy arms from State of Hengshan in large quantities. After ten months, worrying that the price will continuously grow up, State of Yan, State of Dai and later State of Qin followed up the buying. The price then jumped sharply and, as a result, almost all household in State of Hengshan switched to make weapons instead of farming. One year later, Guan ordered officials to buy rice from State of Zhao, at a price more than three times higher than normal. By seeing the potential huge profit, State of Hengshan sold its rice inventory to officials from State of Qi. Afterwards, Guan suddenly ordered State of Qi's army to invade State of Hengshan. With selling out of weapon and rice, State of Hengshan soon surrendered.\n\nSome historians marked Qi-Hengshan War the early form of Economic Warfare.\n\nHe is listed as the author of the \"Guanzi\" encyclopedia, actually a much later (of the late Warring States period) compilation of works from the scholars of the Jixia Academy.\n\nGuan Zhong is one of 32 historical personages featured in the Koei game \"Romance of the Three Kingdoms XI\", where he is referred to as Guan Yiwu.\n\n"}
{"id": "28352842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28352842", "title": "Halsbury's Law Exchange", "text": "Halsbury's Law Exchange\n\nHalsbury’s Law Exchange is a legal think tank based in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe thinktank states that it aims to contribute to the development of law and the legal sector; to communicate ideas on reform and legal direction to decision makers and the legal sector; and to promote debate through papers, reports, events, and media pieces. The outfit aims to examine the rule of law, the structure of the legal system, and the development of the legal sector; to contribute to the development of an efficient statutory framework; to comment on current legal issues that impact on society; and to put forward proposals to ensure the law is just.\n\nEnvironment: International environmental problems are in a legal lacuna; is an international court for the environment now an imperative?\n\nCorporate: Missed opportunities: did the UK miss a significant opportunity to implement important improving reforms in the recent re-write of its companies’ legislation? Should it now be making further advances, thus parting with old traditions in favour of supporting modern corporate practices?\n\nEmployment: A proposal for a simpler employee vetting system.\n\nFamily: Does media access to family courts herald a new and potentially damaging era of openness in family proceedings?\n\nAssisted dying: Proposals to change UK law and advance some suitable conclusions for adoption in this jurisdiction.\n\nSovereign immunity: A white paper questioning whether the doctrine of sovereign immunity is still appropriate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29932496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29932496", "title": "Hatt-i humayun", "text": "Hatt-i humayun\n\nHatt-i humayun (Ottoman Turkish: خط همايون, Turkish: \"hatt-ı hümayun\" or \"hatt-ı hümâyûn\"), also known as hatt-i sharif (\"hatt-ı şerîf\"), is the diplomatics term for a document or handwritten note of an official nature composed by an Ottoman Sultan. The terms come from \"hatt\" (Arabic: handwriting, command), \"hümayun\" (imperial) and \"şerif\" (lofty, noble). These notes were commonly written by the Sultan personally, although they could also be transcribed by a palace scribe. They were written usually in response to, and directly on, a document submitted to the sultan by the grand vizier or another officer of the Ottoman government. Thus, they could be approvals or denials of a letter of petition, acknowledgements of a report, grants of permission for a request, an annotation to a decree, or other government documents. \"Hatt-ı hümayun\"s could be composed from scratch, rather than as a response to an existing document. After the Tanzimat reform (1856), aimed to modernize the Ottoman Empire, \"hatt-ı hümayun\"s of the routine kind were supplanted by the practice of \"irâde-i seniyye\", in which the Sultan's spoken response was recorded on the document by his scribe.\n\nThere are nearly 100,000 \"hatt-ı hümayun\"s in the Ottoman archives in Istanbul. Among the more famous are the Edict (\"hatt-ı şerîf\") of Gülhane of 1839 and the Imperial Reform Edict (\"hatt-ı hümayun\") of 1856. For this last one, the Turkish term \"Tanzimat Fermanı\" is more accurate. This decree, which started the so-called Tanzimat reforms, is so called because it carries a handwritten order by the sultan to the grand vizier to execute his command.\n\nThe term \"hatt-ı hümayun\" can sometimes also be used in a literal sense, meaning a document handwritten by an Ottoman Sultan.\n\nThe \"hatt-ı hümayun\" would usually be written to the grand vizier (\"Sadrazam\"), or in his absence, to his replacement (the ka'immakâm), or to another senior official such as the grand admiral (Kapudan-i Derya) or the governor-general (Beylerbey) of Rumeli. There were three types of \"hatt-ı hümayuns\": \n\nRoutine decrees (\"ferman\") or titles of privilege (\"berat\") were written by a scribe, but those written to certain officials and those that were particularly important were preceded by the Sultan's handwritten note beside his seal (tughra). The tughra and the notation might be surrounded by a decorated frame. The note would emphasize a particular part of his edict, urging or ordering it to be followed without fault. These were called \"Hatt-ı Hümayunla Müveşşeh Ferman\" (ferman decorated with a \"hatt-ı hümayun\") or \"Unvanına Hatt-ı Hümayun\" (\"hatt-ı hümayun\" to the title). The note might use a clichéd phrase like \"to be done as required\" (\"mûcebince amel oluna\") or, \"my command is to carried out as required and no one is to interfere with its execution\" (\"emrim mûcebince amel oluna, kimseye müdahale etmeyeler\"). Some edicts to the title would start with a note from the Sultan praising the person(s) to whom the edict was addressed, in order to encourage or honor him. Rarely, there might be a threat such as \"if you want to keep your head, carry out this order as required\" (\"Başın gerek ise mûcebiyle amel oluna\").\n\n\"Hatt-ı hümayun on the white\" (\"beyaz üzerine hatt-ı hümâyun\") were documents originating with the sultan (\"ex officio\") rather than a notation on an existing document. They were so called because the edict was written on a blank (i.e. white) page. They could be documents such as a command, an edict, an appointment letter or a letter to a foreign ruler.\n\nThere also exist \"hatt-ı hümayun\"s expressing the sultan's opinions or even his feelings on certain matters. For example, after the successful defense of Mosul against the forces of Nadir Shah, in 1743, Sultan Mahmud I sent a \"hatt-ı hümayun\" to the governor Haj Husayn Pasha, which praised in verse the heroic exploits of the governor and the warriors of Mosul.\n\nIn normal bureaucratic procedure, a document would be submitted by the grand vizier, or his deputy the kaymakam (\"Kâ'immakâm Paşa\"), who would summarize a situation for the Sultan, and request the Sultan's will on the matter. Such documents were called \"telhis\" (summary) until the 19th century and \"takrir\" (suggestion) later on. The Sultan's handwritten response (his command or decision) were called \"hatt-ı hümâyûn on telhis\" or \"hatt-ı hümâyûn on takrir\". Other types of documents submitted to the Sultan were petitions (\"arzuhâl\"), sworn transcriptions of oral petitions (\"mahzar\"), reports from a higher to a lower office (\"şukka\"), religious reports by Qadis to higher offices (\"ilâm\") and record books (\"tahrirat\"). These would be called \"hatt-ı hümâyûn on arz\", \"hatt-ı hümâyûn on mahzar\", etc. depending on the type of the document. The Sultan responded not only to documents submitted to him by his viziers but also to petitions (\"arzuhâl\") submitted to him by his subjects following the Friday prayer. Thus, \"hatt-ı hümayun\"s on documents were analogous to Papal rescripts and rescripts used in other imperial regimes.\n\nWhen the sultan contacted the public for Friday prayer or other occasions, people would hand in petitions addressed to him. These were later discussed and decided upon by the council of viziers. They would prepare a summary of all petitions and the action decided upon for each one. The sultan would write on the same sheet \"I have been informed\" (\"manzurum olmuştur\") multiple times, followed by the item number to which he is referring. When palace bureaucracy was reorganized after the Tanzimat reforms, the Sultan's decision came to be written directly by the Chief Scribe at the bottom of the summary document, and this one writing applied to all decisions.\n\nWhen a petition or memo requiring the Sultan's decision was to be submitted to him, the grand vizier usually prepared an executive summary (\"telhis\") as an attachment. In some cases, rather than prepare a separate summary document, the grand vizier or his deputy would write his summary and views diagonally, on the top or bottom margins of documents coming from lower functionaries (see an example in the first figure above). Such annotations on a written document were called \"derkenar\". Sometimes the grand vizier would append a separate cover page on top of a proposal coming from a lower-level functionary like the Treasurer (\"Defterdar\") or the Minister of Defence (\"Serasker\"), introducing it as, for example, \"this is the proposal of the \"Defterdar\"\". In such cases, the Sultan would write his \"hatt-ı hümayun\" on the cover page. In other cases, the grand vizier would summarize the matter directly in the margin of the document submitted by the lower functionary and the Sultan would write on the same page as well. Sometimes the Sultan would write his decision on a fresh piece of paper attached to the submitted document.\n\nIn most cases \"hatt-ı humayun\"s were written by the Sultan himself although there exist some that were penned by the chief scribe or another functionary. Important \"hatt-ı humayun\"s on the white were sometimes drafted by the head of diplomatic correspondence (\"Reis-ül Kuttab\") or the Secretary of Navy (\"Kapudan Paşa\"). In some cases, there were notations as to who prepared the draft of the document that was then re-written by the Sultan.\n\n\"Hatt-ı hümayun\"s usually were not dated, although some, concerning withdrawal of money from the treasury, did carry dates. Most late-period \"hatt-ı hümayun\"s and \"irade\"s had dates. Abdulhamid I was especially inclined to date his \"hatt-ı hümayun\"s. His grand vizier Koca Yusuf Pasha, later suggested this practice of dating \"hatt-ı hümayun\"s to Abdulhamid's successor Selim III so that he could follow up whether his orders were carried out. However, this suggestion was not adopted. Abdulhamid II used signatures toward the latter parts of his reign.\n\nThe language of \"hatt-ı hümayun\"s on documents generally was a form of Turkish understandable (orally) even today and has changed little over the centuries. Many documents or annotations were short comments such as \"I gave\" (\"verdim\"), \"be it given\" (\"verilsin\"), \"will not happen\" (\"olmaz\"), \"be it written\" (\"yazılsın\"), \"is clear/is clear to me\" (\"malûm oldu / malûmum olmuştur\"), \"provide it\" (\"tedârük edesin\"), \"it has come to my sight\" (\"manzûrum oldu / manzûrum olmuştur\"), \"be it answered\" (\"cevap verile\"), \"record it\" (\"mukayyet olasın\"), \"be it supplied\" (\"tedârik görülsün\"), \"be they without need\" (\"berhûrdâr olsunlar\").\n\nSome Sultans would write longer comments, starting with \"It has become my knowledge\" (\"Malûmum oldu\"), and continue with an introduction on the topic, then give their opinion such as \"this report's/petition's/record's/\"etc.\" appearance and meaning has become my imperial knowledge\"(\"... işbu takrîrin/telhîsin/şukkanın/kaimenin manzûr ve me'azi ma'lûm-ı hümayûnum olmuşdur\"). Some common phrases in hatt-ı hümayuns are \"according to this report...\" (\"işbu telhisin mûcebince\"), \"the matter is clear\" (\"cümlesi malumdur\"), \"I permit\" (\"izin verdim\"), \"I give, according to the provided facts\" (\"vech-i meşruh üzere verdim\").\n\n\"Hatt-ı hümayun\"s to the position often had clichéd expressions such as \"To be done as required\" (\"Mûcebince amel oluna\") or \"To be done as required, not to be contravened\" (\"Mûcebince amel ve hilâfından hazer oluna\").\n\n\"Hatt-ı hümayun\"s on the white were more elaborate and some may have been drafted by a scribe before being penned by the Sultan. They often started by addressing the recipient. The Sultan would refer to his grand vizier as \"My Vizier\", or if his grand vizier was away at war, would refer to his deputy as \"Ka'immakâm Paşa\". Those written to other officials would often start with an expression like \"You who are my Vizier of Rumeli, Mehmed Pasha\" (\"Sen ki Rumili vezîrim Mehmed Paşa'sın\"). The head of religious affairs (Şeyhülislam) or the Sultan's personal tutor would be addressed simply and respectfully. In cases where the \"hatt-ı hümayun\" was to be delivered ceremoniously, with an imperial sword and a cloak, as in an appointment to a high rank, there would be a flowery salutation such as \"after I have honored you with my glorious greeting you should know that...\" (\"seni selâm-ı şâhanemle teşrif eylediğimden sonra malumun ola ki...\"). Correspondence to a military commander could have a lengthy and ornate salutation or just address him by his title. A note without an address was meant for the grand vizier or his deputy.\n\nThe earliest known \"hatt-ı hümayun\" is the one sent by Sultan Murad I to Evrenos Bey in 1386, commending the commander for his conquests and giving him advice on how to administer people. Until the reign of Murad III, Viziers used to present matters orally to the Sultans, who would then give their consent or denial, also orally. While \"hatt-ı hümayun\"s were very rare prior to this, they proliferated afterward, especially during the reigns of Sultans such as Abdülhamid I, Selim III and Mahmud II, who wanted to increase their control and be informed of everything.\n\nThe content of \"hatt-ı hümayun\"s tends to reflect the power struggle that existed between the Sultan and his council of viziers (the Divan). The process of using the \"hatt-ı hümayun\" to authorize the actions of the grand vizier came into existence in the reign of Murad III. This led to a loss of authority and independence in the grand vizier while other palace people such as the Master of the Harem (\"Harem Ağası\") or concubines (\"cariye\") who had greater access to the Sultan gained in influence. By giving detailed instructions or advice, the Sultans reduced the role of the grand viziers to be just a supervisor to the execution of his commands. This situation appears to have created some backlash, as during most of the 17th century there were attempts to return to grand viziers' prestige and the power of \"supreme proxy\" (\"vekil-i mutlak\") and over time \"hatt-ı hümayun\"s returned to their former simplicity. However, in the eighteenth century, Selim III became concerned by the over-centralization of the bureaucracy and its general inefficacy. He created consulting bodies (\"meclis-i meşveret\") to share some of the authority with him and the grand vizier. He would give detailed answers on \"hatt-ı hümayun\"s to questions asked of him and would make inquiries as to whether his decisions were followed. The \"hatt-ı hümayun\" became Selim III's tool to ensure rapid and precise execution of his decisions.\n\nDuring the reign of Mahmud II, in the early 1830s, the practice of writing on the memoranda of the grand vizier was replaced by the Chief Scribe of the Imperial Office (\"Mâbeyn-i Hümâyun Başkatibi\") recording the Sultan's decision. After the Tanzimat, the government bureaucracy was streamlined. For most routine communications, the imperial scribe (\"Serkâtib-i şehriyârî\") began to record the spoken will (\"irâde\") of the Sultan and thus the \"irâde\" (also called \"irâde-i seniyye\", i.e., \"supreme will\", or \"irâde-i şâhâne\", i.e., \"glorious will\") replaced the \"hatt-ı hümayun\". The use of \"hatt-ı hümayun\"s on the white between the Sultan and the grand vizier continued on for matters of great importance such as high level appointments or promotions. Infrequently, the grand vizier and the Sultan wrote to each other directly as well.\n\nThe large number of documents that required the Sultan's decision through either a \"hatt-ı hümayun\" or an \"irade-i senniye\" is considered to be an indication of how centralized the Ottoman government was. Abdülhamid I has written himself in one of his \"hatt-ı hümayun\"s \"I have no time that my pen leaves my hand, with God's resolve it does not.\"\n\nThe early \"hatt-ı hümayun\"s were written in the calligraphic styles of tâlik, \"tâlik kırması\" (a variant of tâlik), nesih and riq’a. After Mahmud II, they were only written in riq’a. Ahmed III and Mahmud II were skilled penmen and their \"hatt-ı hümayun\"s are notable for their long and elaborate annotations on official documents. In contrast, Sultans who accessed the throne at an early age, such as Murad V and Mehmed IV display poor spelling and calligraphy.\n\n\"Hatt-ı hümayun\"s sent to the grand vizier were handled and recorded at the Âmedi Kalemi, the secretariat of the grand vizier. The Âmedi Kalemi organized and recorded all correspondence between the grand vizier and the Sultan, as well as any correspondence with foreign rulers and with Ottoman ambassadors. Other \"hatt-ı hümayun\"s, not addressed to the grand vizier, were stored in other document stores (called \"fon\" in the terminology of current Turkish archivists).\n\nDuring the creation of the State Archives in the nineteenth century, documents were organized according to their importance. \"Hatt-ı hümayun\"s on the white were considered the most important, along with those on international relations, border transactions and internal regulations. Documents of secondary importance were routinely placed in trunks and stored in cellars in need of repair. Presumably as a sign of respect toward the Sultan, \"hatt-ı hümayun\"s on documents (petitions, reports, \"etc.\") were cut out and stored together with the \"hatt-ı hümayun\"s on the white, while the rest of the documents were stored elsewhere. These cut-out \"hatt-ı hümayun\"s were not cross-referenced with the documents to which they referred and were only annotated by the palace office using general terms and an approximate date. Because Sultans were not in the habit of dating their \"hatt-ı hümayun\"s until the late period of the empire, in most cases the documents associated with them are not known. Conversely, the decisions on many a memorandum, petition, or request submitted to the Sultan are unknown. The separation of \"hatt-ı hümayun\"s from their documents is considered a great loss of information for researchers. The Ottoman Archives in Istanbul has a special section of \"cut-out \"hatt-ı hümayun\"s\".\n\nToday all known \"hatt-ı hümayun\"s have been recorded in a computerized database in the Ottoman Archives of the Turkish Prime Minister (\"Başbakanlık Osmanlı Arşivleri\", or BOA in short) in Istanbul, and they number 95,134. Most \"hatt-ı hümayun\"s are stored at the BOA and in the Topkapı Museum Archive. The BOA contains 58,000 \"hatt-ı hümayun\"s.\n\nBecause the \"hatt-ı hümayun\"s were originally not organized systematically, historians in the nineteenth and early twentieth century created several catalogs of \"hatt-ı hümayun\"s based on different organizing principles. These historic catalogs are still in use by historians at the BOA:\n\nHatt-ı Hümâyûn Tasnifi is the catalog of the \"hatt-ı hümayun\"s belonging to the Âmedi Kalemi. It consists of 31 volumes listing 62,312 documents, with their short summaries. This catalog lists documents from 1730 to 1839 but covers primarily those from the reigns of Selim III and Mahmud II within this period.\n\nAli Emiri Tasnifi is a chronological catalog of 181,239 documents organized according to the periods of sovereignty of Sultans, from the foundation of the Ottoman state to the Abdülmecid period. Along with \"hatt-ı hümayun\"s, this catalog includes documents on foreign relations.\n\nİbnülemin Tasnifi is a catalog created by a committee led by historian İbnülemin Mahmud Kemal. It covers the period of 1290-1873. Along with 329 \"hatt-ı hümayun\"s, it lists documents of various other types relating to palace correspondence, private correspondence, appointments, land grants (timar and zeamet), and charitable endowments (vakıf).\n\nMuallim Cevdet Tasnifi catalogs 216,572 documents in 34 volumes, organized by topics that include local governments, provincial administration, vakıf and internal security.\n\nAlthough there exist thousands of \"hatt-ı hümayun\"s, the Imperial Reform Edict (or \"Islâhat Fermânı\") of 1856 is well enough known that most history texts refer to it simply as \"Hatt-i Hümayun\". This decree from Sultan Abdülmecid I promised equality in education, government appointments, and administration of justice to all, regardless of creed. In \"Düstur\", the Ottoman code of laws, the text of this ferman is introduced as \"a copy of the supreme ferman written to the grand vizier, perfected by decoration above with a \"hatt-ı hümayun\".\" So, technically this edict was a \"hatt-ı hümayun\" to the rank.\n\nThe Reform Decree of 1856 is sometimes referred to by another name, \"The Rescript of Reform\". Here, the word 'rescript' is used to sense of \"edict, decree\", not \"reply to a query or other document.\"\n\nThe \"Hatt-ı Hümayun\" of 1856 was an extension of another important edict of reform, the Hatt-i Sharif of Gülhane of 1839, and part of the Tanzimat reforms. That document is also generally referred to as \"The Hatt-i Sharif\", although there are many other hatt-i sharifs, a term that is synonymous with \"hatt-ı hümayun\".\n\nThe term \"hatt-ı hümayun\" is occasionally used in the literal sense of the handwriting of the Sultan. For example, the imperial poet Nef'i has written a masnavi of 22 couplets describing the calligraphy of Sultan Murad IV, called \"Der-Vasf-ı Hatt-ı Humayun-ı Sultan Murad Han\". The whole poem is a compliment to the writings of the Sultan.\n"}
{"id": "78445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78445", "title": "Henry Howard, Earl of Surrey", "text": "Henry Howard, Earl of Surrey\n\nHenry Howard, Earl of Surrey (1516/1517 – 19 January 1547), KG, (courtesy title), an English nobleman, was one of the founders of English Renaissance poetry. He was a first cousin of both Queen Anne Boleyn and Queen Catherine Howard, second and fifth wives of King Henry VIII.\n\nHe was born in Hunsdon, Hertfordshire, the eldest son of Thomas Howard, 3rd Duke of Norfolk by his second wife Elizabeth Stafford, a daughter of Edward Stafford, 3rd Duke of Buckingham. He was thus descended from King Edward I on his father's side and from King Edward III on his mother's side.\n\nHe was brought-up at Windsor Castle with Henry FitzRoy, 1st Duke of Richmond and Somerset, the illegitimate son of King Henry VIII. He became a close friend, and later a brother-in-law, of Fitzroy following the marriage of his sister to him. Like his father and grandfather, he was a brave and able soldier, serving in Henry VIII's French wars as Lieutenant General of the King on Sea and Land.\n\nHe was repeatedly imprisoned for rash behaviour, on one occasion for striking a courtier, on another for wandering through the streets of London breaking the windows of houses whose occupants were asleep. He assumed the courtesy title Earl of Surrey in 1524 when his grandfather died and his father became Duke of Norfolk.\n\nIn 1532 he accompanied Anne Boleyn (his first cousin), King Henry VIII, and the Duke of Richmond to France, staying there for more than a year as a member of the entourage of King Francis I of France. 1536 was a notable year for Surrey: his first son was born, namely Thomas Howard (later 4th Duke of Norfolk), Anne Boleyn was executed on charges of adultery and treason, and the Duke of Richmond died at the age of 17 and was buried at Thetford Abbey, one of the Howard seats. In 1536 Surrey also served with his father in the suppression of the Pilgrimage of Grace, a rebellion against the Dissolution of the Monasteries.\n\nHe married Frances de Vere, a daughter of John de Vere, 15th Earl of Oxford, (by his wife Elizabeth Trussell) by whom he had two sons and three daughters:\n\nThe Howards had little regard for the \"new men\" who had risen to power at court, such as Thomas Cromwell and the Seymours. Surrey was less circumspect than his father in concealing his disdain. The Howards had many enemies at court.\n\nHenry VIII, consumed by paranoia and increasing illness, became convinced that Surrey had planned to usurp the crown from his son the future King Edward VI. The matter came to a head when Surrey quartered the attributed arms of King Edward the Confessor. John Barlow had once called Surrey \"the most foolish proud boy that is in England\" and, although the arms of Surrey's ancestor Thomas Mowbray, 1st Duke of Norfolk show that he was entitled to bear Edward the Confessor's arms, doing so was an act of pride. In consequence, the King ordered Surrey's imprisonment and that of his father, sentencing them to death on 13 January 1547. Surrey was beheaded on 19 January 1547 on a charge of treasonably quartering the royal arms. His father survived execution as the king died the day before that appointed for the beheading, but he remained imprisoned. Surrey's son Thomas Howard became heir to the Dukedom of Norfolk in place of his father, which title he inherited on the 3rd Duke's death in 1554.\n\nHe was buried in Framlingham Church in Suffolk, where survives his spectacular painted alabaster tomb.\n\nHe and his friend Sir Thomas Wyatt were the first English poets to write in the sonnet form that Shakespeare later used, and Surrey was the first English poet to publish blank verse (unrhymed iambic pentameter) in his translation of the second and fourth books of Virgil's Aeneid. \nTogether, Wyatt and Surrey, due to their excellent translations of Petrarch's sonnets, are known as \"Fathers of the English Sonnet\". While Wyatt introduced the sonnet into English, it was Surrey who gave them the rhyming meter and the division into quatrains that now characterises the sonnets variously named English, Elizabethan or Shakespearean sonnets.\n\nHenry Howard, Earl of Surrey was portrayed by actor David O'Hara in \"The Tudors\", a television series which ran from 2007 to 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2178519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2178519", "title": "Historical Clarification Commission", "text": "Historical Clarification Commission\n\nIn 1994 Guatemala's Commission for Historical Clarification - La Comisión para el Esclarecimiento Histórico (CEH) - was created as a response to the thousands of atrocities and human rights violations committed during the decades long civil war that began in 1962 and ended in the late 1990s with United Nations-facilitated peace accords. The commission operated under a two year mandate, from 1997 to 1999, and employed three commissioners: one Guatemalan man, one male non-national, and one Mayan woman. The mandate of the commission was not to judge but to clarify the past with \"objectivity, equity and impartiality.\"\n\nAmong other things, the commission revealed that over 200,000 people were killed or disappeared during the conflict and attributed 93% of the violations to state forces and related paramilitary groups. The commission noted that during the conflict the distinction between combatant and non-combatant was not respected and as a result many children, priests, indigenous leaders, and innocent women and men were killed. The CEH aimed to instill national harmony, promote peace, foster a culture of mutual respect regarding human rights, and preserve the memory of the conflict's victims.\n\nGuatemala is a multiethnic, pluricultural and multilingual nation and has been plagued by violence and exclusion directed at the poorest and most vulnerable, specifically the indigenous (Mayan) communities. A colonial legacy left power in the hands of an elite minority, much like many other Latin American countries. Repression was omnipresent — specifically with regards to insurgent groups.\n\nIn 1954 Guatemala's democratically elected President Jacobo Árbenz was overthrown by a U.S.backed right-wing military dictator, Carlos Castillo Armas, in a military coup d'etat. The 36 year Guatemalan civil war began in the early 1960s with a military rebellion by left-wing insurgency groups against the new regime. In response, the Guatemalan government employed counter-insurgency tactics, and state-based violence and terror began to escalate. The conflict intensified in the 1970s and saw the height of its destruction and casualties in the 1979 - 1984 period. Guatemala's civil war concluded with the 1996 Oslo Agreement which declared a formal ceasefire between the Guatemalan government and the Guatemalan National Revolutionary Unity (Unidad Revolucionaria Nacional Guatemalteca, URNG) forces.\n\nThere is a plethora of root causes of Guatemala's 36 year civil war. Guatemala's economy, heavily based on coffee and sugar exports, relied on the exploitation of indigenous labour and land. A democratic regime and Marxist insurgencies posed a direct threat to the political and economic elite as well as their main trading partner — the United States. As a result, the state magnified the military threat posed by the insurgency and launched attacks that lead to civilian massacres and violations of human rights of any suspected \"supporters\" of the guerrilla. In addition, under a Cold War context, anti-communist sentiment permeated the U.S. - Guatemalan discourse and thus counterinsurgency against the Marxist insurgency groups was more severe.\n\nIn June 1994 the Guatemalan government and the URNG, under advisory by the UN Secretary General and the United Nations Verification Mission in Guatemala (MINUGUA), signed the \"Agreement on the establishment of the Commission to clarify past human rights violations and acts of violence that have caused the Guatemalan population to suffer,\" which led to the creation of the CEH. Aside from pressure from the UN Secretary General to work towards truth and reconciliation, the road to the CEH was influenced by the Catholic Church — specifically when it created the Human Rights Office of the Archdiocese of Guatemala (ODHA) in the mid 1990s.\n\nWith a belief that uncovering the truth would make national reconciliation a possibility and authentic democracy a reality, the CEH aimed not to judge but to clarify the past with \"objectivity, equity and impartiality.\" The commission aimed to ask and answer questions such as: \nInstillation of national harmony, promotion of peace, the creation of a culture of mutual respect regarding human rights and the preservation of the memory of the victims was of paramount importance to the commission. Guatemalans and external actors in favour of the commission's work wanted to record Guatemala's bloody past. There is awareness with regards to the systematic violation of human rights during the civil war, but the acts committed and their consequences have yet to become entrenched in the national consciousness and historical memory of Guatemalans.\n\nThe commission's duration lasted two years, from February 1997 to February 1999. Its three commissioners were:\nThe process of the commission was complex and was by no means solely a national effort. Throughout the two year mandate of the commission, multiple countries — including Austria, Canada, Germany and the United Kingdom — provided monetary, political and moral support. The U.S. provided declassified documents crucial to the commission, and the UN Secretary General promoted the project and facilitated the contribution of monetary resources and expert knowledge through various UN bodies.\n\nThe commission, as outlined in its charter, was to be composed of the current moderator of the peace negotiations (appointed by the UN Secretary General), one Guatemalan citizen (appointed by the aforementioned moderator and agreed upon by both parties), and one academic (selected by the monitor from a list comprised by Guatemalan university presidents and approved by both parties). At the height of the investigations, the commission had a staff of 269 and 14 field offices. The staff consisted of both national, and international commissioners — who accounted for just under half of employees. By the end of the CEH's duration, 2000 communities had been visited and testimonies were received from approximately 20,000 people.\n\nThe restrictions of the Commission were as follows: responsibility could not be attributed to any individual — naming names was not allowed; the findings and conclusions of the CEH could not have judicial repercussions; and the commission would have a six-month mandate — extendable to 18 months. The final restriction was not upheld as the commission duration lasted two years. In addition, the CEH had no subpoena powers.\n\nThe CEH's report, Memory of Silence (Memoria del Silencio) was presented in February 1999 in a 12 volume report to representatives of the URNG and the Guatemalan government as well as Kofi Annan, the UN Secretary General. The report is available online for public access in both English and Spanish.\n\nFor the CEH it was clear that in order to understand the past and move forward on a trajectory for peace, an in-depth analysis of the causes of the civil war was required. They concluded that the four main causes of the conflict were as follows: Structural injustice, closing of free, public spaces, anti-democracy trajectory, Cold War context and international influence.\n\nThe CEH also investigated Guatemala's systemic problems. They concluded that the structure and nature of economic, cultural and social relations in Guatemala are marked by profound exclusion, antagonism and conflict — a reflection of its colonial history. In addition, they found the absence of effective state social policy to have accentuated the historical dynamic of exclusion. In fact, they state, most recent state policy has produced inequality and endemic institutional weakness perpetuates the discrepancies among demographics. Leading up to the conflict, civil and political rights were suppressed and public venues were closed to prevent the spread of anti-government sentiment and other revolutionary thinking. During the armed conflict, the incapacity of the state to deal with political instability led to the creation of an intricate system of repression including an underground, illegal punitive system. Military intelligence was the conflict's driving force. Impunity permeated Guatemala's political system.\n\nThe principal focus on the CEH was with regards to human rights violations during the civil war. They registered a total of 42,275 casualties by human rights violations and acts of violence, of that 23,671 were victims of arbitrary execution and 6,159 by forced disappearance. Estimates of those killed or disappeared during the conflict reach as high as 200,000. In terms of demographics, the CEH found that 83% of \"fully identified\" victims were Mayan and 17% Ladino. 93% of the violations were attributed to state forces and related paramilitary groups and 3% to insurgency groups. Among the victims of arbitrary execution, forced disappearance, torture, rape and other violations of fundamental rights were children, priests, indigenous leaders as well as non-combatant women and men with no ties to insurgency groups.\n\nThe CEH highlighted seven main recommendations for Guatemala's government as it embarked upon a path of peace and reconciliation. These recommendations were created in accordance with the UN draft \"Basic Principles and Guidelines on the Right to a Remedy and Reparations for Victims of Violation of International Human Rights and Humanitarian Law\" (E/CN.4/Sub2/1996/17). \nThroughout the recommendations the CEH highlights the need for indigenous political participation.\n\nThe Guatemalan army was opposed to many human rights aspects of the 1996 Peace Accords including the creation and work of the CEH. They argued that these tools were to be used by the insurgency groups to garner political support and military strength. However, support for human rights focused accords and commissions were strongly supported by the URNG, the Catholic Church, and various civil society and human rights based groups. Problems the commission faced were primarily based on political and ideological disagreements. In fact, although the CEH finally came to fruition, its progress was stalled when the army stated its clear opposition to the commission and the URNG affirmed its inclusion as non-negotiable.\n\nSince the report was released in 1999, progress has been made with regards to compliance of the aforementioned recommendations. In 2000 Guatemala ratified the Inter-American Convention on Forced Disappearances, the Additional Protocol to the American Convention on Human Rights regarding social economic and cultural rights, and the Optional Protocol of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. In 2002 it ratified the Optional Protocol of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, regarding the participation of children in armed conflicts and the recognition of the competence of the Committee Against Torture to receive individual complaints in 2003. Although these accords have been signed and ratified, their content has yet to be integrated into current and future domestic plans. In addition, in 2003, 20 years after the majority of human rights violations occurred, a National Reparations Program was established.\n\nIn accordance with the CEH's statement that the state was obligated to investigate crimes committed during the conflict, José Efraín Ríos Montt— former military dictator — was tried and convicted for genocide and crimes against humanity. However, for multiple reasons his trial was suspended until January 2015, then further suspended until January 2016. A closed-door trial began in March 2016. Rios Montt died while the trial was still ongoing.\n\nOne of the most controversial revelations of the commission was its statement that at no time during the conflict did guerrilla groups have the military potential to pose an immediate threat to the state or its army. The state was well aware that the insurgency did not represent a real threat to Guatemalan political order. It has been argued that they deliberately magnified the military threat of the insurgency to justify the crimes they committed.\n\nIn the several years following the release of the CEH's report, scholars have analysed its effectiveness in preventing conflict and creating national harmony as highlighted in the commission's mandate. Jeff Corntassel and Cindy Holder argue that state-facilitated truth mechanisms are fundamentally flawed if they do not address historic and ongoing injustices against indigenous groups — this is particularly relevant in Guatemala considering 83% of the victims in the conflict were indigenous. In addition, Rachel Sieder has investigated judicial reform and violence in postwar Guatemala and states that homicide rates in fact were higher in 2011 than during the height of the armed conflict. The effectiveness of the CEH is highly contested, however it has seen successes — particularly with the opening of spaces like 'La casa de la memoria' which exist to preserve the memory of the conflict's victims.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22269056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22269056", "title": "Industrial Hemp Farming Act of 2009", "text": "Industrial Hemp Farming Act of 2009\n\nThe Industrial Hemp Farming Act of 2009 (H.R.1866) that was introduced during the 111th United States Congress by House \nRepublican Ron Paul of Texas) and House Democrat Barney Frank of Massachusetts) on April 2, 2009. It sought to clarify the differences between marijuana and industrial hemp as well as repeal federal laws that prohibit cultivation of industrial, but only for research facilities of higher education from conducting research. Industrial hemp is the non-psychoactive, low-THC, oilseed and fibers varieties of the cannabis sativa plant. Hemp is a sustainable resource that can be used to create thousands of different products including fuel, fabrics, paper, household products, and food and has been used for hundreds of centuries by civilizations around the world. If H.R.1866 passes American farmers will be permitted to compete in global hemp markets. On March 10, 2009, both Paul and Frank wrote a letter to their Congressional colleagues urging them to support the legislation. This bill was previously introduced in 2005 under the title of Industrial Hemp Farming Act of 2005.\n\nTo amend the Controlled Substances Act to exclude industrial hemp from the definition of marijuana, and for other purposes.\n\nBe it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,\nSECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.\n\nThis Act may be cited as the `Industrial Hemp Farming Act of 2009'.\nSEC. 2. EXCLUSION OF INDUSTRIAL HEMP FROM DEFINITION OF MARIJUANA.\n\nParagraph (16) of section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802(16)) is amended--\n(1) by striking `(16)' at the beginning and inserting `(16)(A)'; and\n(2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:\n`(B) The term `marihuana' does not include industrial hemp. As used in the preceding sentence, the term `industrial hemp' means the plant Cannabis sativa L. and any part of such plant, whether growing or not, with a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration that does not exceed 0.3 percent on a dry weight basis.'.\nSEC. 3. INDUSTRIAL HEMP DETERMINATION TO BE MADE BY STATES.\n\nSection 201 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 811) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:\n`(i) Industrial Hemp Determination To Be Made by States- In any criminal action, civil action, or administrative proceeding, a State regulating the growing and processing of industrial hemp under State law shall have exclusive authority to determine whether any such plant meets the concentration limitation set forth in subparagraph (B) of paragraph (16) of section 102 and such determination shall be conclusive and binding.'\n\nThe Marihuana Tax Act of 1937 is the beginning of constriction for the growth of marijuana in the United States. An extremely high tax was placed on marijuana; making it nearly impossible to grow industrial hemp. However, congress expected the production of industrial hemp to continue, but the Federal Bureau of Narcotics lumped industrial hemp with marijuana and its successor, the US Drug Enforcement Administration, continued.\n\nThe United States is the only developed country which still bans the growth of industrial hemp. 16 states have passed pro-hemp legislation.\n\nThe inability of US farmers to legally cultivate hemp, makes them unable to compete in the global market, contribute to the reduction of the trade deficit and benefit the local market by providing jobs in various industries such as food, auto parts, clothing, and other various industries.\n\nUnited States companies and industries which sell products made with hemp include Dr. Bronner's Magic Soaps, most of the bird seed sold in the U.S., and even the automobile companies Ford and BMW, historically and currently, experimented with hemp materials in their vehicles. Hemp food manufacturers such as French Meadow Bakery, Hempzels, Living Harvest, Nature's Path and Nutiva now make their products from Canadian hemp. These industries would no longer have to import hemp from other countries to produce these products.\n\nNational Drug Control Policies oppose this legislation as it is believed that hemp plants could provide cover during cultivation for marijuana plants.\n\nThis legislation, the Industrial Hemp Farming Act of 2005 and the Industrial Hemp Farming Act of 2007, were introduced, referred to committee, and no additional legislative action taken.\n\nCurrently, the word \"marijuana\" is the accepted spelling. However, \"marihuana\" was the correct spelling and most commonly used form in early Federal Government of the United States documents. That is why, as stated in the bill, marijuana is spelled \"marihuana;\" to maintain consistency across government documents.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17706809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17706809", "title": "Israeli Institute of Commercial Arbitration", "text": "Israeli Institute of Commercial Arbitration\n\nThe Israeli Institute of Commercial Arbitration (IICA; ) was founded in 1991 by the Federation of Israeli Chambers of Commerce. The IICA is generally considered the leading arbitration institution in Israel.\n\nThe late Prof. Smadar Ottolenghi was one of the founders of the IICA, and she served as its first President for nearly thirteen years. The current President of the IICA is the Honorable Judge (Retired) Ayala Procaccia. The prior President (through 2012) was Amnon Straschnov. \n\nIn addition to providing arbitration services, the IICA also provides mediation services.\n\nThe IICA’s list of arbitrators and mediators includes those from different backgrounds and disciplines: retired Israeli judges, lawyers, accountants, engineers, appraisers, and economists. \n\nFrom 1991 until 2007, the IICA maintained only one set of arbitration rules, in Hebrew (the General Rules). In 2007, the IIICA adopted a special set of rules, in English, for international disputes (the International Rules). \n\nThe chairman of the IICA Rules Committee (which drafted the General Rules) is Advocate David Golan. The principal draftsman of the IICA's International Rules was Advocate Eric Sherby.\n\nThroughout the world, the lack of appealability is generally considered one of the drawbacks of arbitration. One of the unique aspects of the IICA's General Rules is that it addresses the concern as to appealability. In 2004, the IICA amended the General Rules to allow the parties to an arbitration to agree on an appellate level to review the award of the arbitrator(s). The appellate procedure does not have any effect on the parties' rights under Israeli law to file a motion to confirm an arbitral award (or a motion to cancel/vacate an arbitral award) under Israeli law. \n\nThe IICA is believed to be one of very few arbitral institutions globally that has adopted an institutional procedure for appealing arbitral awards. \n\nThe IICA's International Rules are not like the UNCITRAL Rules. The IICA's International Rules provide that, whenever an arbitration agreement is in English, absent the parties' agreement otherwise, the language of the arbitration will be English. In such respect, the IICA is believed to be the only national arbitral institution (in a country where English is not an official language) to provide for English as the \"default\" language of arbitration. \n\nThe International Rules generally respect the parties' pre-dispute agreement to use multiple arbitrators, subject to the party's prompt notification of the desire for a multiple arbitrator adjudication. \n\nThe IICA's International Rules also provide that certain rulings concerning a claim of privilege that relies upon substantive law other than Israeli law may be appealed to the President of the IICA.\n\n"}
{"id": "6782470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6782470", "title": "Jury research", "text": "Jury research\n\nJury or juror research is an umbrella term for the use of research methods in an attempt to gain some understanding of the juror experience in the courtroom and how jurors individually and collectively come to a determination about the 'guilt' or otherwise of the accused.\n\nHistorically, juries have played a significant role in the determination of issues that could not be managed via 'general social interactions' or ones which required punitive measures, retribution and/or compensation. The role of jurors and juries however, has changed over the centuries and have generally been moulded by social and cultural forces embedded in the wider communities in which they have evolved. \"Although the role of juries and jurors has a somewhat chequered history, 'the jury, in one form or the other, became the formal method of proof of the guilt or [otherwise] of a person on trial, and juries remain one of the 'cornerstones' of the criminal justice system in many countries.\n\nThere are however, many debates about the efficacy of the jury system and the ability of jurors to adequately determine the guilt or otherwise of the accused. Some argue that lay individuals are incapable of digesting the often complex forensic evidence presented during a trial, others argue that any misunderstanding of the evidence is a flaw in legal cross examination and summing up. Many observe that the juror and the accused seldom can be considered 'peers' which is historically considered a fundamental precept of jury makeup. Others consider the jury system to be inherently flawed as a result of the humanity of jurors. They cite incidents in which the Judiciary have become aware of Juror assumptions made in the absence of supporting evidence, the unidentified effect on Jurors of stereotyping, culture, gender, age, education etc., which can and have influenced their ability to make a decision from an objective stance. These arguments and debates are founded in legal and psychological practice and made by social scientists and legal practitioners,\n\nThe juror however has a very personal and different perspective. The role played by the juror is an extraordinary one which is distinctive with minimal resemblance to their 'normal daily experiences/activities'. In effect the juror is plucked from their life, sometimes for considerable periods of time, they are deposited into an environment about which they generally have little knowledge or ability to negotiate, the language and behaviours of which are foreign and they are expected to make sense of their internal and external environments. As a result of their jury experience many in Australia and New Zealand have reported feeling stressed, anxious, frustrated, overwhelmed and a variety of other emotions, cognitions and behaviours which to varying degrees surprised them.\n\nThe above factors are but a few of the many and varied variables that can impose on the juror when in the Courtroom and/or the Juryroom. Such a complex and unique experience is the jury deliberation process the outcome of which is profound and potentially lethal. Quite rightfully therefore, the focus on jury research by legal professionals and social scientists has become, in the last 50 years or so a burgeoning area of investigation.\n\nAs can be seen from the above, there are a number of reasons juries and jurors have become the target of investigation by legal practitioners and social scientists. Often overlooked is that correlation between the focus of investigation role played in the criminal justice system of the investigator or instructing organisation/individual(s) funding the research. The terms of reference, for example, for jury research performed on behalf of a trial lawyer seeking a beneficial outcome for his or her client, will most probably differ to those of a psychologist investigating the influence of say gender, demographic and personality variables on trial outcomes, which again will most probably differ from an examination by concerned members of the Judiciary about the ability of jurors to understand the legal argument, complex forensic evidence and instructions by the legal representatives in the courtroom.\n\nSimilarly methodology will differ depending on terms of reference, level of peer review, experience and ability of researchers and attitudes of funding organisations. Today, there are many companies and individuals providing services as jury consultants or trial strategists [See for example , & for links to three randomly selected organisations that provide such services]. Jury consultants use market research techniques in an attempt to bolster the client's chances of a positive outcome by 'gaining an understanding of the current and environment/location specific trends that might impact the attitudes of jurors. Their job is to shape trial team strategy so as to moderate or take advantage of jurors' preexisting beliefs and experiences by way of how the evidence is presented. Regular market research techniques are used in such instances (e.g., phone surveys, focus groups, feedback sessions etc.). Surrogate or mock jurors are selected carefully so that they are statistically representative of the 'general population in the particular region' and they are presented relevant information, visual exhibits, witness statements, legal cases, timelines etc. in an attempt to elicit a variety of responses, thus allowing the lawyers to prepare adequately for any possibility before it causes difficulty to their case. Jury consultants also use pre-trial techniques such as focus groups when preparing for settlement negotiations. Post-trial juror interviews sometimes allow for better understanding of mistakes or good arguments made in a trial, and that knowledge could be used for future trials or for an appeal. A recent innovation in this type of research is using electronic resources where lawyers 'pitch their submissions to online jurors'. More information about this resource can be found by following this link . Also on these pages are papers which outline some of the perceived benefits of this type of research along with the issues which are still topics of debate.\n\nJury consultancy is a growing industry and one which uses current technologies in innovative ways. However, this type of investigation makes up a relatively small proportion of Jury Research, the balance of which is generally conducted by psychologists, criminologists and other interested social scientists. As indicated above in discussions about the personal perspective of jurors, the interaction between the juror and other jurors, the Courtroom environment, etc. is extraordinarily complex and unusual in that the behaviours and expectations of jurors performing jury duty are different from everyday experiences. The tools of the social scientist have evolved over recent decades thus allowing more variables to be considered when investigating phenomena. This is augmented by the continuous development of computer programs that can perform complex multivariate and multilevel analyses of data and models. Nonetheless, flaws inherent in social research must be considered, identified and moderated, and this is particularly relevant in Jury research.\n\nJury research can be done with 'real jurors' or 'mock jurors'. Each of these methods have their downfalls and each provides a different slant on the juror experience.\n\nAccess to 'real jurors' is difficult to attain, and observation of jurors whilst performing their duty is prohibited for a variety of reasons, the most prominent of which is a reluctance to allow any imposition on the jurors whilst performing their duty, which might affect the trial's result. As such access to jurors, if allowed, is generally after they have been dismissed which raises difficulties with issues such as memory distortion, overload from stress or other factors which were more pertinent to the juror while on the jury; inability to recognise the influence of demographic factors on their deliberations, etc. These are all factors or variables which are difficult to tease out of the data, but the influence of which can be adjusted in the analysis of the data if the model is theoretically sound.\n\nResearch on mock jurors does not provide an avenue for the investigation of the 'Gestalt' of the juror experience. Mock Jurors are not 'in the midst of the experience', they are not imposed upon by the reality that the future of the person sitting before them will in some respects be influenced by them, their ability to concentrate, their attention to detail, their ability to negotiate with other jurors, and other factors which do impose on 'real jurors'. Although mock juror research may be sufficient for examinations of the general attitudes and beliefs of a community by jury consultants, when investigating the nuances of the internal processes involved in deliberating an outcome of a Court matter, mock jury research techniques fall short in terms of validity. However, again, Mock jury research has provided a significant pool of investigative pursuits and \"since the 1970s as a result of considerable debate surround the issues associated with simulated research, the design and methodological parameters of simulated jury research have been made more robust.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36861886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36861886", "title": "Kelly v Solari", "text": "Kelly v Solari\n\nKelly v Solari (1841) 9 M&W 54, 152 ER 24 is an early common law case, where the principle of unjust enrichment underpinned the decision of the court.\n\nMr Solari died. His widow claimed under his life insurance policy as executrix. The insurers later found they were not in fact liable to pay because he had not paid a premium instalment. The policy had been marked lapsed, but the office had not checked.\n\nThe Court of Exchequer held that the widow was bound to repay. Her lack of fault was irrelevant or that the insurers were careless.\n\nParke B, said if the money, \n\nRolfe B said to the fact that Mrs Solari was innocent ‘it cannot be otherwise than unconscientious to retain it.’ (i.e. the money).\n"}
{"id": "44515628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44515628", "title": "Lange v Atkinson", "text": "Lange v Atkinson\n\nLange v Atkinson [1997] 2 NZLR 22 (HC), [1998] 3 NZLR 424 (CA), [2000] 1 NZLR 257 (PC), [2000] 3 NZLR 385 is a cited case in New Zealand regarding defamation claims in tort.\n\nJoe Atkinson, a political columnist, wrote an article critical of Former Prime Minister David Lange and the 4th Labour Government which was published in North and South magazine.\n\nLange found the article defamatory, and sued Atkinson, and the magazines publisher ACP for defamation, upon which they filed a defence of qualified privilege.\n\nLange spent the next 4 years trying to get their defence struck out.\n\nThe Court of Appeal's final hearing in Lange v Atkinson (No. 2) remains the leading case on the law of qualified privilege in New Zealand and affirmed that qualified privilege extends to publications concerning the conduct of publicly elected officeholders and those seeking such office.\n\nFootnote: Besides featuring in NZ case law for defamation, David Lange also featured in Australian defamation case law in Lange v Australian Broadcasting Corporation (1997) 189 CLR 520; 145 ALR 96 (HCA)\n"}
{"id": "57675650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57675650", "title": "March 1947 martial law in Mandatory Palestine", "text": "March 1947 martial law in Mandatory Palestine\n\nBeginning on 2 March 1947, martial law was enforced by the British military for 15 days in Jewish sectors of Mandatory Palestine. The crackdown was known as Operation Hippo in the greater Tel-Aviv region and as Operation Elephant in Jerusalem.\n\nThe implementation of statutory martial law came the day after eight terrorist attacks had been carried out by the Zionist militant organizations the Irgun and Lehi against British vehicles, installations, and personnel. The attacks were conceived as part of a response to strict security measures implemented by Britain and the country's referral of the Mandate to the United Nations. The deadliest incident, on 1 March, occurred at the British Officers' Club in Jerusalem which was bombed and subsequently became the site of a gunfight. Twenty British soldiers were killed.\n\nThe British High Commissioner implemented martial law the following day in the Jewish Quarter of Jerusalem and Tel-Aviv, as well as other cities; the declaration affected civil services and governing. British soldiers arrested suspects throughout Palestine before martial law was lifted on 17 March. Throughout its duration, clashes between British personnel and Zionist militants continued. During the period of martial law, British troops in Jerusalem killed two Jewish civilians, including a 4-year-old child.\n\nThe Bevin Plan proposed by Great Britain which foresaw a binational state with cantonal arrangements that would permit strong regional autonomy had been rejected by both sides in early 1947, with the Jewish representatives claiming all of the land with the exception of the hills of the West Bank, and asking for an influx of 100,000 Jews for the first two years, to establish a Jewish majority. Likewise the Arab delegation rejected the plan, asking only that the British leave Palestine. When warned this would lead to a bloodbath, with Bevin noting that the Jews were in a stronger military position than the Arabs, they trusted that the League of Arab States would balance the equation. Given the impasse, Bevin left a decision in the hands of the United Nations General Assembly, in the belief that the numbers there would hinder any partition plan, and lead the parties back to the only reasonable solution, in Great Britain's view, namely that outlined in the Bevin Plan. The Zionists believed the British were stalling for time, and the Jewish Agency made efforts in the meantime to round up international assent to the establishment of a Jewish state, while multiplying facts on the ground by creating new settlements, increasing Aliyah Bet operations and leaving the dissident Jewish organisations to increase attacks against British forces.\n\nBy February 1947–in response to political unrest and the kidnappings of British officials–the British government evacuated women, children, and non-essential male civilians from Mandatory Palestine; later in the month, Britain announced its intent to terminate the Mandate, referring the matter of the future of Palestine to the United Nations. All British soldiers and policemen still stationed in the Mandate were subsequently concentrated into security zones in major cities. In a secret order on 10 February, which represented a change in tactics, the Zionist militant organization Irgun considered everyone British an enemy, no matter what position they held. The security measures led to Arab unrest in the Mandate and an increase in purchases of black market goods–an \"indication of preparations for trouble\".\n\nOn 1 March, the Irgun and Lehi coordinated a wave of terrorist attacks targeting British personnel throughout the Mandate. The organizations claimed that the attacks were in response to Britain's heightened security and their referral of the Mandate to the United Nation. Eight incidents took place on the day; the militants made use of land mines, mortars, and explosives to destroy military vehicles, installations, and personnel.\n\nThe deadliest incident –perpetrated by the Irgun– targeted the Goldsmith British Officers' Club in Jerusalem. The building had living quarters in the upper floors. It was the first terrorist attack on a Saturday, the Jewish Sabbath. A Jewish girl who was the receptionist and twelve British officers were killed when militants, some wearing police uniforms, under the cover of machine gun fire raided the building, planted and detonated explosives, and subsequently engaged in a gunfight. Twenty British personnel were killed and 30 wounded on that date.\n\nThe British High Commissioner's response was swift. By 2 March, martial law was declared in the Jewish Quarter of Jerusalem, most of Tel-Aviv, Givatayim, at in Bnei Brak, Ramat Gan and Petah Tikva, with the objective of pressuring the Jewish Agency which had not been cooperating in the British campaign against terrorism. This entailed a curfew for all but three hours a day. Maj. Gen. Richard Gale, the military governor of Tel-Aviv, reflected on the order: \"Martial law shall be declared. It is not to be viewed as a punishment, although there will be no avoiding suffering caused to residents through the fault of irresponsible individuals\".\n\nOn 3 March, an Irgun depot was raided in Tel Aviv, where detonators, bombs, and British military uniforms were found. Later that week, British troops shot and killed two Jews in Jerusalem, including a four-year-old girl who was standing on the porch of her home in Mea Shearim. British soldiers arrested militants throughout the Mandate. In Jerusalem, where a massive manhunt was underway for the suspects in the British Officers' Club bombing. With cooperation from Jewish civilians, sixty suspects were arrested during martial law. Despite security measures, terrorist activity continued, resulting in the deaths of 14 British personnel and 15 civilians between 1 and 13 March.\n\nIndeed, the order had serious implications for the Jewish populace of the affected areas. Civil services were suspended and the power of civil leadership, including the courts system, was transferred to military govenors; British soldiers were granted policing authority and movement in and out of areas under martial law required permits. Arabs were affected too by the price of goods and the dismissal of thousands of daily wage workers. Ben-Gurion complained that the curfew was having a serious negative impact on the economy and public services, arguing that the effect risked creating sympathy for the cause of terrorism among the general population. General Sir Miles Denmpsey commented on 4 March apropos the military situation stating that there were as many murders in England as in Palestine, with only one difference: \"in England the murderer is caught because the people of the country are on the side of law and order and assist the police. In Palestine the people do not assist the police and the murderers are not caught.\"\n\nTel Aviv unexpectedly became a major centre of employment and adjacent communities–otherwise cut off from the city–requested they be incorporated into the boundaries of martial law. Pressure on the Jewish Agency led to it taking serious steps to distance itself from the dissident militant groups.\n\nThe High Commissioner revoked martial law on 17 March, concluding its objectives were met and that the order was inadvertently affecting Arabs as well. The Colonial Office assessed that the operation while resulting in some Jewish collaboration with British authorities, did not result in the hoped-for level of cooperation. An estimated $10,000,000 in economic losses were reported for the Jewish community in the 15 days under martial law. The military estimate was that martial law was ineffective, -in failing to make a dint into terrorism, that they lacked the means to maintain the curfew much longer, and soldiers were being tied down in administrative duties which hampered operational readiness. Ben-Gurion characterized the dissidents' approach as terrorism, and warned that it risked plunging the Yishuv into a fratricidal struggle. On May 15, the Haganah was directed to move against the militant factions, not to hand them over to the British, but to impede their execution of further attacks, and their intervention proved effective in stopping projects of assassination and destruction of British military property. Some of those captured were put and trial and received the death penalty. In reprisal for the execution of several of their members, the Irgun captured and hanged two British sergeants, leaving their bodies booby-trapped.\n\n"}
{"id": "48446687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48446687", "title": "Master-at-arms (United States Navy)", "text": "Master-at-arms (United States Navy)\n\nThe master-at-arms (MA) rating is responsible for law enforcement and force protection in the United States Navy—equivalent to the United States Army Military Police, the United States Marine Corps Military Police, the United States Air Force Security Forces, and the United States Coast Guard's Maritime Law Enforcement Specialist. It is one of the oldest ratings in the United States Navy, having been recognized since the inception of the U.S. Navy. \n\nIt has had two rating badges during its history. Its original MA rating mark was an inverted star until disestablished (1797–1921). On 20 May 1958 the inverted star reemerged as a nod to the Historical MA Rating whose duty was to provide good order and discipline aboard ships over the enlisted crews. Public Law 85-422, the Military Pay Act of 1958, established two new enlisted pay grades of E-8 and E-9 in all five branches of the U.S. Armed Forces. In the U.S. Navy and U.S. Coast Guard, the new E-8 pay grade was titled Senior Chief Petty Officer and the new E-9 pay grade as Master Chief Petty Officer. As a result it was designated a single (E-8) or double (E-9) inverted star above the anchor for all collar devices and rating badges this point forward. \n\nThe MCPON Rating (1971) specialty mark was established using the former MA inverted star and later expanded to the Command Rates of Fleet / Command Master Chief (1995) or Senior Chief (2015) Ratings. The current MA rating mark following its reestablishment has been a police badge with internal star (1973–present), emblematic of its police or sheriff duties as a modern law enforcement specialist.\n\nThe master-at-arms rating is not a modern innovation. Naval records show that these \"sheriffs of the sea\" were keeping order as early as the reign of Charles I of England. At that time they were charged with keeping the swords, pistols, carbines and muskets in good working order as well as ensuring that the bandoliers were filled with fresh powder before combat. Besides being chiefs of police at sea, the sea corporals, as they were called in the British Navy, they had to be qualified in close order fighting under arms and able to train seamen in hand-to-hand combat. In the days of sail, the master-at-arms were truly \"masters at arms.\"\n\nThe navy of the united colonies of the 1775 era offered only a few different jobs above the ordinary seaman level. These included boatswain's mate, quartermaster, gunner's mate, master-at-arms, cook, armorer, sailmaker's mate, cooper, coxswain, carpenter's yeoman, and yeoman of the gun room. These were titles of the jobs that individuals were actually performing and thus became the basis for petty officers and ratings. Also, there were ordinary seaman, loblolly boy, and boy, but these are more related to our apprentices of today.\n\nThe master-at-arms rating officially started after the American Revolutionary War on board the ships of the United States' early navy. Taking on many customs and traditions of the Royal Navy, the existence of the rating did not take effect until the Naval Act of July 1, 1797, was enacted, which called for every ship to have, among other job positions a master-at-arms. Because of this Congressional act, the master-at-arms rating is recognized as one of the \"oldest\" ratings still existing in today's modern U.S. Navy, which includes boatswain's mate, gunner's mate, quartermaster, and yeoman.\n\nFrom 1885 to 1893, a master-at-arms was a petty officer 1st class, who wore a rating badge consisting of three stripes forming an arc over the three chevrons, and a star specialty mark with an eagle perched on the arc. A ship's corporal wore a standard rating badge for a petty officer 2nd class with the star as the specialty mark. The master-at-arms rating is formally disestablished in accordance with BNCL 9-21 of March 24, 1921, and made effective July 1, 1921.\n\nEstablished in 1942, the specialists (s) shore patrol and security, worked shore patrol teams and ensured basic ship and shore station security. Its name was changed in 1948 to shore patrolman, and it took on some of the official functions of the current master-at-arms rating, only to be disestablished on January 23, 1953 by the Secretary of the Navy as a result of the RSRB recommendations of June 1952. This was officially implemented by BUPERS Notice 1200 of March 5, 1953. Master-at-arms circa 1970s\nAccording to the Naval History and Heritage Command, the Master-at-arms rating was officially established in 1797, disestablished in 1921, only to be re-established by the Chief of Naval Personnel on August 1, 1973 in BUPERSNOTE 1440 Change 1, thereby making that date \"August 1st\" as the official birthday of the modern U.S. Navy Master-at-Arms. This formal creation of the master-at-arms rating was unfortunately the result of a recommendation made by the Special Subcommittee of Congress on Disciplinary Problems in the US Navy, because of riots that occurred on the and the in 1972 because of racial tensions. According to the archived reports, the findings of the committee concluded that there was no formal training for the master-at-arms force on the ships, the U.S. Marine Detachment was not effectively utilized by the chief master-at-arms of the ships, and that a separate rating be established to perform law enforcement duties similar to the other military services.\n\nAfter being re-established on August 1, 1973, the rating would only receive sailors who wanted to \"cross-rate\" (a rating conversion in the U.S. Navy) and submitted a conversion package to BUPERS after concurrence from NCIS. This conversion package was unique in that it required a letter of endorsement from rated master-at-arms in the community who observed the sailor first-hand in the performance of their assigned NSF duties. Along with the pre-requisites required at the time, these sailors must have been frocked as a second class petty officer or above. The conversion process used the procedures and requirements listed in Military Personnel Manual (MILPERSMAN) 1440-010. \n\nIn 1982, the Naval Criminal Investigative Service, then known as the Naval Investigative Service (NIS), assumed responsibility for managing the Navy's Law Enforcement and Physical Security Program and the Navy's Information and Personnel Security Program. This effectively made NCIS the program manager for the master-at-arms community, responsible for program management, manning, training, and equipping.\n\nThe period between the 1980s and the 2000s saw very few changes in the rating after its formation, in terms of tactics, techniques and procedures. Masters-at-arms were performing law enforcement and ATFP duties. Concurrently, for those naval shore installation with a nuclear weapons mission and a collocated nuclear weapons storage areas (primarily naval submarine bases and select naval air stations, the Marine Corps Security Force assigned to that installation's Marine Barracks, held responsibility for access gates/gate guards, perimeter security, and security of stored nuclear weapons. A similar function was held by the Marine Detachment, essentially a reinforced infantry company, aboard major warships that had both nuclear weapons storage facilities and functioned as flagships (e.g., aircraft carriers and battleships). But the majority of Navy MAAs, especially those assigned to ships, still performed archaic duties such as berthing inspections, restricted barracks supervision, linen issue, and seabag locker management. However, the increased terrorist threat changed the way the Navy thought and operated.\n\nIn the mid and late 1980s, the Commandant of the Marine Corps, in agreement with the Chief of Naval Operations, began removing Marine Corps enlisted personnel from gate guard duties at the naval installations they were assigned to in order to place greater emphasis on the nuclear weapons security role, with Navy enlisted personnel assuming gate guard and perimeter security duties. However, most of the junior enlisted personnel assigned to these functions were not part of the MAA rating and had little formal training in security duties. With the end of the Cold War, Marine Detachments were also removed from aircraft carriers in the early 1990s, the four Iowa-class battleships having been concurrently decommissioned at the same time.\n\nHowever, with the USS \"Cole\" bombing in 2000, followed by the events of 9/11, the U.S. Navy began to realize its personnel, equipment and infrastructure were grossly under protected because of a lack of specially-trained personnel, especially the master-at-arms. As terrorism became a real threat, the Navy's leadership was forced to change how the master-at-arms was viewed, used, and task organized, leading to serious changes in force protection tactics, techniques and procedures. This led to the establishment of the Antiterrorism/Force Protection Warfare Development Center (ATFPWDC), the precursor to the current Center for Security Forces and an increase in Master-at-arms manning, which in the year 2000 was barely 1,800 to over 11,000 by the year 2007. In addition, in 2003 the Navy Recruiting Command increased recruiting efforts tremendously help fill the billet requirements being demanded by the various type commanders (TYCOM) to combat the terrorist threats within their area of responsibility. This demand increased sharply when the CNO authorized the formation of the Navy Expeditionary Combat Command (NECC), which serves as the single functional command for the Navy's expeditionary forces and as central management for the readiness, resources, manning, training and equipping of those forces.\n\nThe biggest change to the rating came after 9/11 in the form of master-at-arms sailors being assigned to other military units as an Individual Augmentee in support of combat support and non-combat support roles in the various area of operations of the \"Global War on Terrorism\". Aside from the authorized billets in unconventional operational units, master-at-arms saw Individual Augmentee duties as early 2003 such as in the Iraq AOR with Combined Joint Task Force 7 (the precursor unit of Multi-National Force – Iraq), headquartered at Camp Victory.\n\nIn 2006, NECC acquired the program management role from NCIS. The increased need for specialized units such as Maritime Expeditionary Security Force (MESF) and United States Navy Riverine Squadron (RIVRON) units and the manning of several forward deployed locations such as Bahrain saw the need to increase the number of masters-at-arms. It was also during this period, for the first and only time, that master-at-arms were considered a source rating for U.S. Navy SEAL and were allowed to attend Basic Underwater Demolition/SEAL (BUD/S) training.\n\nThen again in 2011, this changed with U.S. Fleet Forces Command assuming responsibility as the master-at-arms community sponsor. This shift is indicative of the \"drawdown\" the entire U.S. military was seeing from its departure from combat operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. This move marks the change from combat and combat support roles that masters-at-arms participated in the various expeditionary and SOF units, and back to more traditional law enforcement roles with U.S. Fleet Forces Command as the community's functional commander. This move still exasperates the existing issue that has plagued the community from its beginning. The issue of the Naval Security Force not having a single chain of command, or type commander, similar to how the U.S. Army, and U.S. Marine Corps Military Police Corps, or U.S. Air Force Security Forces are task organized. In each of the other services, the entire Military Police Corps are under the direction and control of their respective Military Police Provost Marshal General.\n\nA proposal from within the community has been recommended, suggesting changes to how the master-at-arms rating and Naval Security Force personnel are organized, trained and utilized. Additionally, with the decline in the requirements placed on the rating since the start of the Global War on Terrorism in support of the various operations, this has freed up many personnel and units for a Navy-wide restructuring of the master-at-arms rating. In a 2014 article in \"Navy Times\", the then-Commander of Naval Air Forces, Vice Admiral Dave Buss, stated that all aircraft carriers' Security Force Departments would be manned by rated master-at-arms. This is a tremendous shift in current manning directives since the departure of the U.S. Marine Detachments in the 1990s. Currently, the Security Departments of these ships rely on other departments to fill almost 75 percent of the required security force billets. These sailors, who receive minimal training in force-protection tactics, techniques and procedures, temporarily fill these billets for a duration of six months to a year.\n\nThe authority of a master-at-arms is derived from many sources. Under Title 10 U.S.C., they enforce the provision of the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) (10 U.S.C. § 47). Under the Assimilative Crimes Act (18 U.S.C.§ 13) it provides that local and state criminal codes may be assimilated for enforcement and criminal investigation purposes on military installations. Other sources of authority for Master-at-Arms include the Manual for Courts-Martial, United States Navy Regulations, internal directives from the Office of the Secretary of Defense (SECDEF), Office of the Secretary of the Navy (SECNAV), the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations (CNO), and local directives issued by the commanding officer.\n\nI am a Master-at-Arms.\nI hold allegiance to my country, devotion to duty, and personal integrity above all.\nI wear my shield of authority with dignity and restraint, and promote by example high standards of conduct, appearance, courtesy and performance.\nI seek no favor because of my position.\nI perform my duties in a firm, courteous, and impartial manner.\nI strive to merit the respect of my shipmates and all with whom I come in contact.\n\nAccording to the United States Navy Enlisted Occupational Standards, NAVPERS 18068F, it states that Master-at-Arms provide waterborne and land security, aircraft and flight line security, strategic weapons and cargo security, maritime security and platform protection; conduct customs operations, corrections operations, detainee operations, and protective service operations; perform force protection, physical security and law enforcement; organize and train personnel in force protection, physical security, law enforcement, and weapons proficiency; develop plans for physical security and force protection enhancement of Navy bases, installations, property, and personnel; and assist commands in conducting terrorist threat analysis and implementing defensive measures.\n\nMaster-at-arms perform criminal investigations, with some exceptions. In the Department of the Navy, felony criminal investigations for the U.S. Navy and U.S. Marine Corps are conducted by federal civilian law enforcement agents of the Naval Criminal Investigative Service, which also performs investigations in national security, counter-intelligence, and counter-terrorism. During drug interdiction operations on naval vessels, U.S. Navy personnel are augmented by the U.S. Coast Guard's Law Enforcement Detachment under Title 10, United States Code (U.S.C.) § 379 to perform those law enforcement duties, because of the DOD Regulations and Executive Orders which prevents Navy personnel from being used to enforce state laws. This also limits the ability of enlisted MA personnel from assisting civilian police.\n\nThe duties of a master-at-arms vary from command to command. Most will primarily perform law enforcement and force protection duties, however, other types of duties are open to the rating depending on the command that they are assigned to. This can be in areas such as expeditionary warfare, special operations support, independent duty, GWOT individual augmentee, protective service detail assigned to a high-ranking official, or corrections. Master-at-arms may also serve outside of the rating, when approved by the community manager, such as in recruiting, recruit training, U.S. Embassy duty, assignment to NCIS or Afloat Training Group (ATG) as a trainer and evaluator, or to a flag or general officer's Staff.\n\nAs the primary law enforcement organization on a naval installation, master-at-arms may perform their duties operating a patrol vehicle or RHIB; standing watch (or post) at a gate, pier or flight line as a fixed or roving sentry; conducting traffic enforcement; conducting interviews or interrogations; collecting evidence or securing a crime scene. Like any other law enforcement agency, there are also administrative duties performed by master-at-arms such as personnel management, training, inspections, records keeping, etc.\n\nPersonnel in the master-at-arms rating can also expect to see duties on board a variety of naval warships such as an aircraft carriers' security force department; on a cruiser, destroyer, or aviation squadron as an independent duty master-at-arms; on board a naval shore or aviation installation in the United States or in overseas locations such as Bahrain and Diego Garcia, assigned to the security force or police departments; forward deployed to Iraq, Afghanistan or Africa on a GWOT IA assignment; or assigned to an expeditionary or naval special warfare unit. When assigned to these different types of units, master-at-arms are expected to achieve the same qualifications and watch stations, as the rest of the sailors assigned to that unit. This may include damage control, maintenance and material management, officer of the deck or petty officer of the watch or small boat coxswain. Overall, these specific qualifications are required of all sailors to complete their unit specific warfare qualifications, for example, enlisted surface warfare specialist or enlisted expeditionary warfare specialist.\n\nAccording to early records, the U.S. Navy took its time about identifying ratings by the symbols so familiar on today's naval uniforms. The master-at-arms, or police officer of the ship, wore the white five-pointed star of authority.\n\nPrior to the 1980s, they were only distinguished from other sailors wearing the dungaree uniform, by wearing a brassard on their arm with the letters \"MAA\". Eventually, commands locally purchased and issued metal badges to masters-at-arms, similar to civilian law enforcement agencies. This, however, caused for badge inconsistencies throughout the Navy in terms of the size, color and description, when compared to the uniformity of the other services' military police force. \n\nBetween the 1980s and 2010 saw the use of the woodland and desert camouflage utility uniform by master-at-arms throughout the Navy, with metal or cloth badges worn on the left breast pocket of the uniform, centered in the middle of the left pocket for men and 1/4 inch above the U.S. Navy tape (or warfare device) for women. The camouflage utility uniform for the Navy was exactly the same uniform worn by the U.S. Air Force and U.S. Army known as the battle dress uniform.\n\nToday master-at-arms wear the same uniform worn throughout the fleet, the navy working uniform type I, with a \"universal\" metal or cloth badge affixed to right side of the uniform, 1/4 inch above the name tape of the sailor, with no difference in position for gender. Masters-at-arms serving in a specific operational units may also be authorized to wear the navy working uniform type II (digital desert pattern) or the navy working uniform type III (digital woodland pattern). In these situations, the TYCOM, combatant commander, or unit commander for those units may issue specific orders to deviate from U.S. Navy Uniform Regulations.\n\nBetween 1885 and 1893, the master-at-arms was established as a first-class petty officer and wore a distinctive badge consisting of three stripes forming an arc over the three chevrons and specialty mark with an eagle perched on the arc. This would subsequently be used for the newly created rank of chief petty officer. The ship's corporal was then authorized to wear a standard rating badge for petty officer 2nd class with the star as the specialty mark. The current rating badge, as authorized by BuPers Notice 1440 (May 4, 1973, effective August 1, 1973) and approved by the Secretary of the Navy on March 8, 1974 has been the current rating badge for the master-at-arms.\n\nIn October 2001, the Chief of Naval Operations (CNO) designated the commander in chief, U.S. Atlantic Fleet (CINCLANTFLT) as concurrent commander, U.S. Fleet Forces Command. This action was prompted by the recent terrorists’ attacks against the U.S. and the increased awareness among military official that the Navy’s force protection posture was in need of revision. Known today as U.S. Fleet Forces Command, its mission is to serve as the executive agent regarding all aspects of force protection for the fleet.\n\nIn November 2001, U.S. Fleet Forces Command established the Antiterrorism/Force Protection Warfare Development Center (ATFPWDC) in response to the rapid increase of fleet training needs in the realm of force protection. Known today as Center for Security Forces, its mission is to serve as the training authority for all aspects of force protection for the Navy.\n\nToday, the Center for Security Forces provides specific training, sustainment and serves as the Subject Matter Expert (SME) in the area of Navy law enforcement, force protection, physical security, small arms weapons training, expeditionary warfare, code of conduct, and the Tactics, Techniques and Procedures (TTP) in those respective areas. Its mission is to develop and deliver force protection and NSF training to achieve war fighting superiority.\n\nBelow are the minimum requirements or standards, that an individual must be able to possess at application or conversion, and be able to maintain throughout their career as an MA. There would be no moral turpitude waivers granted for alcohol, drugs, indebtedness, or other circumstances, that would result in non-screening for the Personal Reliability Program (PRP), Security Clearance granting or overseas assignment. \n\nMaster-at-Arms \"A\" school is located at Lackland AFB, San Antonio, Texas. MAs receive formal and specialized training managed by the staff and personnel assigned to the Center for Security Forces (CENSECFOR). Sailors graduating from \"A\" School will have the basic knowledge in performing law enforcement duties and will be qualified to operate the M9 pistol, M4/M16 rifle, M500 shotgun, expandable baton, Oleoresin Capsicum (OC) pepper spray, various restraining devices, and operating a patrol vehicle. MAs graduating from \"A\" School will also possess basic knowledge in interview and interrogation techniques, report writing, use of force and rules of engagement doctrine, and military law.\n\nMaster-at-Arms perform a variety of duties that require specialize training, or \"C\" Schools, that are completed immediately after \"A\" School and throughout their career. Upon completion of the applicable \"C\" School(s), a Master-at-Arms receives a Navy Enlisted Classification (NEC) Code which is entered into their Electronic Training Jacket (ETJ). NECs are sometimes used in the detailing process for an enlisted Sailor when selecting orders to a new command.\n\nBecause of the multi-faceted duties of a master-at-arms, it is not uncommon for a master-at-arms to qualify in various small-arms and large caliber weapons throughout their career. Additionally, master-at-arms may be required to train and qualify in various non-lethal weapons. Typically, a rated master-at-arms will at a minimum maintain qualifications in the following weapons to perform their basic law enforcement duties:\n\nIn a naval unit task organized with a naval security force (NSF) department or detachment, masters-at-arms report to the commanding officer of the command, and are led by a security officer, in maintaining good order and discipline, enforcing rules and regulations, and protecting life and property. Security officers are commissioned naval officers in the limited duty officer or chief warrant officer community with the security occupational designators 649X and 749X. They may also be led by a Department of Defense (DoD) civilian employee who possess the necessary skills, training and/or experience to perform those duties.\n\nSecurity Force enablers may also include personnel in the Emergency Management and Antiterrorism offices who support NSF functions, but report through a different chain of command.\n\nCollectively, all personnel responsible for law enforcement and force protection for the U.S. Navy are designated as naval security force. This includes sailors in the master-at-arms rating, commissioned officers in the LDO and CWO field, DoD police officers, contracted guards, and sailors who have completed the required security force training. These \"non-rated\" sailors are trained by masters-at-arms with the antiterrorism training supervisor skill set (NEC 9501) or by sailors assigned as instructors to the center for security forces learning sites. Some of the course curriculums required to be completed in order to perform NSF duties include Security Reaction Force – Basic (SRF-B) and Security Reaction Force – Advance (SRF-A). Non-rated sailors assigned to perform these duties will be designated as auxiliary security force (ASF) for shore installations, or in-port security force (ISF) for naval vessels.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4012428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4012428", "title": "Medieval Scandinavian law", "text": "Medieval Scandinavian law\n\nMedieval Scandinavian law, also called North Germanic law, was a subset of Germanic law practiced by North Germanic peoples. It was originally memorized by lawspeakers, but after the end of the Viking Age they were committed to writing, mostly by Christian monks after the Christianization of Scandinavia. Initially they were geographically limited to minor jurisdictions (\"lögsögur\"), and the Bjarkey laws concerned various merchant towns, but later there were laws that applied to entire Scandinavian kingdoms. Each jurisdiction was governed by an assembly of free men, called a þing.\n\nThe court assembly, the \"thing\", used the law and heard witnesses to rule whether the accused was guilty or not. There were usually two types of punishment: outlawing and fines. The most common means of justice were, however, fines; the amount varied, depending on the severity of the offense. This system was extremely intricate and the fines themselves, singularly a \"mulct\", were also varied according to the social status of the accused and/or the victim. Disputes of innocence were often solved by trial. These trials consisted of different tests for men and women. However, as long as the courts were not made aware of the crime, it could go unpunished or was settled outside of legal bounds by payment. There was no written code of law until after the Viking Age, but the code of fines, duels, and disavowing criminals was the standard across the Scandinavian world.\n\nThe best sources for information about the Viking legal system are found in Iceland, where it was the most highly documented. The Eyrbyggja Saga, for example, portrays accounts of the compromises made at the Althing. In Chapter 46 of the saga, the arbitrator and his jury facilitate the following settlement:\n\n\"It was agreed that the wound Thord Bling received at Alfta Fjord should cancel the one given to Thorodd Snorrason. Mar Hallvardsson's wound and the blow Steinthor gave Snorri the Priest were said to equal the deaths of the three men killed at Alfta Fjord. The killings by Styr, one on either side, cancelled each other out, as did the killings of Bergthor, and the wounds of the Thorbrandssons in the fight on Vigra Fjord. The killing of Freystein Bofi was set against the killing of one of Steinthor's men at Alfta Fjord. Thorleif Kimbi got compensation for the leg he had lost. The killing of one of Snorri's men at Alfta Fjord was matched against the unlawful assault Thorleif Kimbi had committed by starting the fight. All other injuries were evened out, all outstanding differences paid for, and so they parted on friendly terms. Everyone honoured this settlement as long as Steinthor and Snorri were both alive.\"\n\nIn 1117, the Althing decided that all the laws should be written down and this was accomplished at Hafliði Másson's farm over that winter and published the following year. The resulting codex is known as the \"Gray Goose Laws\" (Icelandic: \"Grágás\") and they were a collection of laws from the Icelandic Commonwealth period consisting of Icelandic civil laws and the laws governing the Christian church in Iceland.\n\nAs with the other Scandinavian countries in the Medieval Age, Norway was governed by a system of þings at which the numerous kings would convene to settle legal disputes. Medieval Norway developed four ancient regional assemblies: Frostating, Gulating, Eidsivating and Borgarting. There were also smaller \"þing\"s, such as Haugating, which did not develop into major legislative meetings. A jury typically consisted of twelve members, twenty-four members, or thirty-six members according to the importance of the matter in question.\n\nOne of the most common practices in early medieval Norway of determining the outcome of a case was a holmgang, which was a duel between the accuser and the accused. The winner was considered to be in the favor of the gods and thus the innocent party. Although not as common, outlawing men was practiced as well. Bjorn, son of Ketil Flat-Nose, was declared an outlaw by a thing assembled by King Harald in the very beginning of the Eyrbyggja Saga.\n\nAs royal power in the Norwegian kingdom was consolidated, from about the eleventh century onwards, laws were increasingly put into writing, and later issued by royal decree. Thus trade in towns came to be regulated by the Bjarkey laws; the laws of the four \"þing\"s were codified during the thirteenth century, producing texts such as the \"Frostathing Law\". Magnus I of Norway (\"the good\") took a key role in this. Then, during the reign of Magnus VI of Norway (\"the lawmender\"), the first state law for the whole of Norway was issued, between 1274 and 1276. This is known as \"Magnus Lagabøtes landslov\"; it was supplemented with further law-codes for the country's cities from 1276, known as \"Magnus Lagabøtes bylov\".\n\n\"Magnus Lagabøtes landslov\" stood more or less unchanged as a key section of Norwegian law until the Norwegian Code of issued by Christian V of Denmark in 1688. However, a number of features of the current Law of Norway are still thought to descend lineally from Ancient Norwegian property laws. Udal law, for example, is thought to have ancient origins of this kind.\n\nThe Treaty of Perth transferred the Outer Hebrides and Isle of Man to Scots law while Norse law and rule still applied for Shetland and Orkney.\n\nMedieval Denmark was divided into three jurisdictions each ruled by its own provincial law; the Scanian Law used in the Scanian lands, the Zealandic Law used in Zealand and Lolland, and the Jutlandic Law used in Jutland (both North and South) and Funen. The Scanian lands were Danish until the middle of the 17th century, and the Scanian Law predates Sweden's similar provincial laws. It was written down around 1200 and exists in several law manuscripts. The earliest extant manuscript, \"SKB B74\" was created between 1225-1275 and is now housed at the Swedish Royal Library. Another copy, the Codex Runicus, was written entirely in runic lettering around 1300 and is now held at the Arnamagnæan Institute at the University of Copenhagen. These manuscripts are however copies of older lawtexts and the Scanian Law is thus counted as one of the oldest provincial laws in the Nordic countries.\n\nAll three provinsial laws were given by king Valdemar the Victorious. The youngest of the three, the Jutlandic Law, was given in 1241. Zealand was later given two additional laws: King Eric's Zealandic Law and the Zealandic ecclesiastical law. It is remains unclear which king Eric the former law refers to.\n\nThe three laws were replaced in 1683 by King Christian V's Danish Law but as this law was never introduced in Schleswig, the Jutlandic Law remained in force for this jurisdiction. The oldest known copy of the Jutlandic Law, \"Codex Holmiensis 37\" is currently owned by the Swedish Royal Library. Recent research has rejected earlier claims that described this copy as Swedish war booty from 1657-60 wars, as the book appears to have been in Danish ownership during the early 18th century.\n\nThe earliest written law from what is now Sweden seems to be the \"Forsaringen\", an iron ring from the door for the church of Forsa in Hälsingland, which carries a runic inscription, long thought to be from the high Middle Ages but more recently dated to the ninth or tenth century. The inscription's precise meaning is uncertain, but seems to list fines, with the fine doubling for each new offence.\n\nThe earliest substantial Swedish law-texts are the provincial laws (in Swedish \"landskapslag\"), which were the means of law holding in Sweden during the Middle Ages. The provinces of Sweden, or \"landskap\" were practically separate countries and had individual laws. Provincial laws are known to have existed in the provinces of Västergötland, Östergötland, Dalarna, Hälsingland, Södermanland, Uppland, Västmanland, Värmland and Närke. A provincial law, Gutalagen, also existed for Gotland. In Finland, the local common laws were not codified, but in parts of Finland the applied law was based on the Hälsingland law.\n\nIn older times the laws were memorized by a lawspeaker (\"lagman\"). Around 1200 the laws began to be transferred to written form. This was probably due to clerical influences. The oldest of the Swedish provincial laws is the Westrogothic law or \"Västgötalagen\", which was used in the province of Västergötland, in west Sweden. Like Gutalagen, it was written in its oldest version around 1220. Some regulations are likely to have their origins in the Viking Age. A stipulation that \"no man may inherit while he sits in Greece\", for instance, would have been useful during the Viking Age when many Swedes served in the Varangian Guard but less so when the laws were codified, at a time when such service had all but stopped.\n\nOf the fine, one third was to be paid to the wronged; one third to the hundred; and one third to the King.\n\nAround 1350, the Swedish provincial laws were replaced by a country law, the Magnus Eriksson country law. Gutalagen was in use until 1595 and the Scanian Law was in use until 1683.\n\nChristianity is thought to have come to the Scandinavian peoples initially in the reign of Charlemagne, but did not take hold until the 11th or 12th centuries, when it was made the official religion of Norway by Olaf Tryggvason. He is also credited with expanding the religion to the Faroe Islands, Iceland, and Greenland, among other areas in Scandinavia.\n\nWith the Christians came new laws and ideas, such as the Járnburdr, which was a \"test by fire\". It consisted of picking an iron out of boiling water and carrying it 9 paces. A week later, if the carrier's wounds had not become infected they were declared innocent. Later, the Christians also abolished this law. It also abolished slavery in Scandinavia and the gathering of \"cults\". Perhaps the largest contribution of Christianity to Viking culture, however, was the power that it presented. As the Viking Age moved into a more monarchical era, it came to a fast close. Kings such as the Olaf Tryggvason, Sweyn Forkbeard, and Sweyn's son Cnut the Great were extremely powerful and were Christian.\n\nThe yearly þing ritual continued after the Christianization of Scandinavia, especially in Iceland where it was a social gathering, not merely a court.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23123836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23123836", "title": "NATO Agreement on Safeguarding Defence-Related Inventions", "text": "NATO Agreement on Safeguarding Defence-Related Inventions\n\nThe NATO Agreement for the mutual safeguarding of secrecy of inventions relating to defence and for which applications for patents have been made was signed in Paris on September 21, 1960. It entered into force on January 12, 1961 following deposit of the instruments of ratification by the first two countries, namely the United States and Norway.\n\nIceland, a founder of NATO with no standing army, did not participate in the convention. The following countries are parties the agreement:\n\n"}
{"id": "18935661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18935661", "title": "Negativland", "text": "Negativland\n\nNegativland is an American experimental music band which originated in the San Francisco Bay Area in the late 1970s. They took their name from a Neu! track, while their record label (Seeland Records) is named after another Neu! track. The core of the band consists of Mark Hosler, David Wills (aka \"The Weatherman\"), Peter Conheim and Jon Leidecker (aka \"Wobbly\").\n\nNegativland has released a number of albums ranging from pure sound collage to more musical expositions. These have mostly been released on their own label, Seeland Records. In the late 1980s and early 1990s, they produced several recordings for SST Records, most notably \"Escape from Noise\", \"Helter Stupid\" and \"U2\". Negativland were sued by the band U2's record label, Island Records, and by SST Records, which brought them widespread publicity and notoriety.\n\nNegativland started in Concord, California, in 1979 around the core founding members of Lyons and Hosler (who were in high school at the time), and released an eponymous debut in 1980.\n\nA number of releases followed in the early 1980s, but it wasn't until after the release of their breakthrough sample and cut-up sonic barrage \"Escape from Noise\" in 1987 that Negativland gained wider attention. Vinyl copies of the album came with \"CAR BOMB\" bumper stickers, in reference to the album's song \"Car Bomb.\"\n\nFollowing the somewhat unexpected success of this album, Negativland faced the prospect of going on a money-losing tour in 1988. To prevent this, they created a press release which said Negativland were prevented from touring by \"Federal Authority Dick Jordan\" because of claims that Negativland's song \"Christianity Is Stupid\" had inspired 16-year-old mass murderer David Brom to kill his family. The press release went on to vigorously deny the purported connection between Negativland and the murders. While Brom had in fact argued with his father about music shortly before Brom killed his family, no one had ever claimed that Brom was spurred to murder by Negativland's music. The claim that Brom's crimes were inspired by Negativland was disseminated and discussed in the mass media, seemingly with little to no fact-checking. Soon the world was informed of the \"Killer Song\" that caused a kid to murder his parents with an ax.\n\nThe incident became the foundation for Negativland's next release, \"Helter Stupid\", which featured a cover photo of TV news anchorman Dave McElhatton intoning the Brom murder story, with the news station's caption \"Killer Song\" above his head, and a photo of the ax murderer.\n\nNegativland's next project was the \"U2\" EP, with samples from \"American Top 40\" host Casey Kasem. In 1991, Negativland released a single with the title \"U2\" displayed in very large type on the front of the packaging, and \"Negativland\" in a smaller typeface. An image of the Lockheed U-2 spy plane was also on the single cover.\n\nThe songs within were parodies of the group U2's well-known 1987 song \"I Still Haven't Found What I'm Looking For\", including kazoos and extensive sampling of the original song. The song \"The Letter U And The Numeral 2\" features a musical backing to an extended profane rant from well-known disc jockey Casey Kasem, lapsing out of his more polished and professional tone during a frustrating rehearsal which had gone out to many stations as raw feed and was taped by several engineers, who had been passing it around for a number of years. One of Kasem's milder comments was \"These guys are from England and who gives a shit?\" (U2 was actually formed in Ireland. Moments earlier he had read from his script, \"the Irish band from Dublin\".)\n\nU2's label Island Records quickly sued Negativland, stating that placing the word \"U2\" on the cover violated trademark law, as did the song itself. Island Records also contended that the single was an attempt to deliberately confuse U2 fans, awaiting the impending release of \"Achtung Baby\", into purchasing what they believed was a new U2 album called \"Negativland\".\n\nIn June 1992, R. U. Sirius, publisher of the magazine \"Mondo 2000\", came up with an idea. Publicists from U2 had contacted him regarding the possibility of interviewing Dave \"The Edge\" Evans, hoping to promote U2's impending multimillion-dollar Zoo TV Tour, which featured found sounds and live sampling from mass media outlets (things for which Negativland had been known for some time). Sirius, unbeknownst to Edge, decided to have his friends Joyce and Hosler of Negativland conduct the interview. Joyce and Hosler, fresh from Island's lawsuit, peppered the Edge with questions regarding his ideas about the use of sampling in their new tour, and the legality of using copyrighted material without permission. Midway through the interview, Joyce and Hosler revealed their identities as members of Negativland. An embarrassed Edge reported that U2 were bothered by the sledgehammer legal approach Island Records took in their lawsuit, and furthermore that much of the legal wrangling took place without U2's knowledge: \"by the time we [U2] realized what was going on it was kinda too late, and we actually did approach the record company on your [Negativland's] behalf and said, 'Look, c'mon, this is just, this is very heavy...'\" Island Records reported to Negativland that U2 never authorized samples of their material; Evans' response was, \"that's complete bollocks, there's like, there's at least six records out there that are direct samples from our stuff.\"\n\nIn August 2007, Joyce provided an audio cassette copy of the \"Mondo 2000\" interview with Evans to the U2 fan website U2Interview.com. The interview is freely available from this website.\n\nThe \"U2\" single (along with other related material) was re-released in 2001 on a \"bootleg\" album entitled \"These Guys Are from England and Who Gives a Shit\", released on \"Seelard Records\" (a parody of Negativland's record label Seeland Records). Negativland may have themselves been responsible for the re-release; although the Negativland website refers to this release as a bootleg, it is available from major retailers like Best Buy, Amazon, and Tower Records, as well as Negativland's own mail-order business.\n\nNegativland are interested in intellectual property rights, and argue that their use of U2's and others' material falls under the fair use clause. In 1995, they released a book, with accompanying CD, called \"\", about the whole U2 incident (from Island Records first suing Negativland for the release to Negativland gaining back control of their work four years later). The book ends with a large appendix of essays about fair use and copyright by Negativland and others, telling the story with newspaper clippings, court papers, faxes, press releases and other documents arranged in chronological order. An unfortunate side effect of the Negativland-Island lawsuit was another one brought on between Negativland and SST, which served to sever all remaining ties the two had. To get back at Negativland (while wryly circumventing their name), SST founder Greg Ginn later released the \"\" album on SST.\n\nNegativland were the main subjects of Craig Baldwin's documentary \"Sonic Outlaws\", detailing the use of culture jamming to subvert the messages of more traditional media outlets. They also made an appearance in Brett Gaylor's 2009 copyright issue documentary, \"\".\n\nIn 1999 Negativland collaborated with UK anarchist band Chumbawamba to produce the EP \"The ABCs of Anarchism\", which is largely based around the writings of Alexander Berkman and cut-up versions of Chumbawamba's hit song \"Tubthumping\", the theme tune to the children's program Teletubbies and the Sex Pistols' \"Anarchy in the UK\".\n\nIn 2003, members of Negativland contributed their efforts to Creative Commons, a non-profit organization devoted to expanding the range of creative works available for others to legally build upon and share by providing alternative copyright licenses. In September 2002, Negativland spoofed Clear Channel radio stations in an audio track broadcast by pirate radio broadcasters jamming a Seattle Clear Channel station while the National Association of Broadcasters met in the city.\n\nFormer member Don Joyce long hosted a weekly radio show called Over the Edge most Thursdays at midnight on KPFA. Recordings of some noteworthy episodes of the show have been released by Seeland in its \"Over the Edge\" series.\n\nIn September 2005, to celebrate the 25th anniversary of the band, Negativland curated an art exhibit in Manhattan's Gigantic Artspace gallery. The exhibit, \"Negativlandland\", included a number of pieces of artwork from and inspired by Negativland recordings, video projection of music videos created by the band and others, and some artwork created specifically for the show, such as an animatronic Abraham Lincoln figure (inspired by the band's Lincoln cut-up piece \"God Bull\") and a hands-on exhibit featuring the \"Booper\", the audio-processing unit that band member David Wills (a.k.a. \"The Weatherman\") assembled out of old radio parts. The show appeared in Minneapolis on May 12, 2006, at Creative Electric Studios.\n\nFormer band member Ian Allen died on January 17, 2015, due to complications from heart valve surgery. He was 56 years old. On July 22, 2015 Don Joyce, group member and host of Over The Edge, died of heart failure at the age of 71. On April 19, 2016, Richard Lyons died from complications of nodular melanoma following his 57th birthday party in a nursing facility.\n\nThe band's latest album, \"Over the Edge Vol. 9: The Chopping Channel\", was released on October 21, 2016. Select copies of the album include a bag containing two grams of Don Joyce's cremated remains.\n\n\n\n\" (CDs edited from Negativland's weekly live radio show)\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37124453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37124453", "title": "Pekka Korhonen", "text": "Pekka Korhonen\n\nPekka Korhonen (born 21 August 1955 in Suonenjoki) is a Finnish political scientist. He is a professor of world politics at the University of Jyväskylä, Finland. His research interests concern world politics and Asia. Korhonen is currently studying Asia as a concept.\n\n\n1.'The Theory of the Flying Geese Pattern of Development and Its Interpretations'. \"Journal of Peace Research\", 1994, Vol. 31, No 1, pp. 93-108.\n\n2. 'Economism as a Pacific Peace Project'. \"Philippine Political Science Journal\", 1994–95, Nos 37-38, pp. 1-28.\n\n3. 'The Pacific Age in World History'. \"Journal of World History\", Spring 1996, Vol. 7, No. 1, pp. 41-70. ([https://www.academia.edu/28498664/_Co-Translation_%E4%B8%96%E7%95%8C%E5%8F%B2%E4%B8%8A%E7%9A%84%E5%A4%AA%E5%B9%B3%E6%B4%8B%E6%97%B6%E4%BB%A3_Studies_of_Maritime_History_%E6%B5%B7%E6%B4%8B%E5%8F%B2%E7%A0%94%E7%A9%B6_9_2016_3-31_with_a_new_postscript_with_Chen_Guanhua_._Pekka_Korhonen_The_Pacific_Age_in_World_History_Journal_of_World_History_7.1_1996_41-70._ Chinese version:\"世界史上的太平洋时代\"[with a new postscript<nowiki>]</nowiki>, trans. Guanhua Chen陈冠华 and Boyi Chen陈博翼, \"Studies of Maritime History\"海洋史研究 9 (2016): 3-31.])\n\n4.'Monopolizing Asia. The Politics of a Metaphor', \"The Pacific Review\", 1997, Vol. 10, No. 3, pp. 347-365. Anthologized in Peter W. Preston (ed.) \"Political Change in East Asia\", Ashgate: Aldershot, 2003.\n\n5. 'Naming Spaces', \"Fennia\", 1999, Vol. 177, No. 2, pp. 123-136.\n\n6. 'Akamatsu Kaname (1896-1974). Entwicklungstheorie in Ostasien: Das Gänseflug-Modell', \"Entwicklung und Zusammenarbeit\" 1999, Vol. 40, No. 6, pp. 169-171.\n\n7. 'The Political Geography of Okakura Tenshin', \"Nichibunken Japan Review\", 2001, No. 13, pp. 107-127.\n\n8. 'Asia's Chinese Name', \"Inter-Asia Cultural Studies\", 2002, Vol. 3, No 2, pp. 253-270.\n\n9.'Common Culture. Asia Rhetoric in the Beginning of the Twentieth Century', \"Inter-Asia Cultural Studies\", 2008, Vol. 9, No 3, pp. 395-417.\n\n10.'Changing Definitions of Asia', \"Asia-Europe Journal\", 2012; Vol. 10, No 2-3, pp. 99-112.\n\n11. 'Tora-san and Kurosagi as Symbols of Changing Japanese Society', \"Journal of Intimate and Public Spheres\", 2013, Vol 2, No 1, pp. 145-146. \n\n12. Leaving Asia? The Meaning of Datsu-A and Japan's Modern History アジアを去る？脱亞の意味と日本の近代史。\"The Asia-Pacific Journal\", Vol. 12, Issue 9, No. 3, March 3, 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "974076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=974076", "title": "Personal Rule", "text": "Personal Rule\n\nThe Personal Rule (also known as the Eleven Years' Tyranny) was the period from 1629 to 1640, when King Charles I of England, Scotland and Ireland ruled without recourse to Parliament. The King claimed that he was entitled to do this under the Royal Prerogative. \n\nCharles had already dissolved three Parliaments by the third year of his reign in 1628. After the murder of George Villiers, Duke of Buckingham, who was deemed to have a negative influence on Charles' foreign policy, Parliament began to criticize the king more harshly than before. Charles then realized that, as long as he could avoid war, he could rule without Parliament.\n\nWhig historians such as S.R. Gardiner called this period the \"Eleven Years' Tyranny\", because they interpret Charles's actions as authoritarian and a contributing factor to the instability that led to the English Civil War. More recent historians such as Kevin Sharp called the period \"Personal Rule\", because they consider it to be a neutral term, and some such as Sharpe have emphasised the positive aspects of the period.\n\nIn the Medieval period, government in England was very much centred on the King. He ruled personally, usually assisted by his Council, the Curia Regis. The council members were chosen by the King, and its membership varied greatly, but members often included powerful nobility and churchmen, senior civil servants, and sometimes certain members of the King's friends and family.\n\nEarly parliaments began to emerge under Edward I, who wished to implement taxation changes and wide-ranging law reforms, and sought to gain the consent of the nation. Nevertheless, calling a parliament was an expensive and time-consuming process, requiring many personal invitations (for the House of Lords) and elections in the shires and chartered cities and boroughs. So parliaments would only be summoned on particularly important occasions. Once a parliament had finished its business, the King would dissolve it, and perhaps not summon another for an extended period; in the meantime, the Curia Regis – that is, the King with his chosen advisers – would make laws (\"ordinances\"), spend money, and carry on the business of government.\n\nFrom the 14th to the 16th centuries, the acknowledged powers of Parliament grew. In particular, it was established that Parliament was the only body that could authorise nationwide taxation and excise. There were practical underpinnings to these powers, for those who elected representatives to Parliament at this time were the same people the monarch had to rely on to collect and remit taxes on a large scale: the landed gentry. If a sovereign were to attempt to impose new taxes without consulting the gentry then the gentry could have simply refused to collect the taxes, and the monarch would have had little feasible recourse.\n\nOnce summoned, a parliament could take the opportunity to submit policy proposals to the monarch (\"bills\"), which would be expected to take precedence over ordinances if signed into law by the monarch, although (s)he was under no obligation to grant the Royal Assent to any such proposal. However, monarchs did increasingly use parliaments more widely in lawmaking as a way of gaining popular support for their policies. One example was during the English Reformation, when the Reformation Parliament acting at Henry VIII's instigation passed a succession of laws regulating the church in England.\n\nThe first of the Stuart monarchs to rule England, James I, was perennially short of money and he was obliged to summon parliaments often. Successive parliaments thereupon sought to turn the King's financial woes to their advantage, requiring various policy concessions before voting taxes. In 1625, James was succeeded by his son Charles I, who immediately plunged England into an expensive and ultimately unsuccessful war with Spain, in an attempt to force the Catholic Spanish King Philip IV to intercede with the Holy Roman Emperor Ferdinand II on behalf of Charles's brother-in-law, Frederick V, Elector Palatine, the husband of Charles's sister Elizabeth, to regain the Electorate of the Palatinate and his hereditary lands, which the Emperor had taken from him.\n\nParliament's protests about the war's mismanagement by the Duke of Buckingham, and others of Charles' policies, primarily regarding taxation and other methods of acquiring funds, and Charles' refusal to compromise, eventually led to Charles dissolving Parliament in March 1629. He also made peace with Spain and France, largely because the financial burden of waging these wars could not be sustained without funds that Parliament alone could provide. For the next eleven years, Charles governed with only an advisory council of royal appointees.\n\nThe greatest problem Charles initially encountered at this stage was a continued lack of funds. The main sources of income for the King were customs duties, feudal dues and income from the King's personal estates. Nationwide taxation was widely understood to be for emergencies and special purposes, such as war, and it was by this time generally accepted that only Parliament could authorise a general tax. But even in peacetime, the traditional sources of the King's revenue were stretched to the limit to fund the business of government. So Charles and his advisers developed various schemes to raise additional revenue without recourse to Parliament. \n\nA large fiscal deficit had arisen in the reigns of Elizabeth I and James I. Notwithstanding Buckingham's short-lived campaigns against both Spain and France, there was little financial capacity for Charles to wage wars overseas. Throughout his reign Charles was obliged to rely primarily on volunteer forces for defence and on diplomatic efforts to support his sister, Elizabeth, and his foreign policy objective for the restoration of the Palatinate. England was still the least taxed country in Europe, with no official excise and no regular direct taxation. To raise revenue without reconvening Parliament, Charles resurrected an all-but-forgotten law called the \"Distraint of Knighthood\", in abeyance for over a century, which required any man who earned £40 or more from land each year to present himself at the king's coronation to be knighted. Relying on this old statute, Charles fined individuals who had failed to attend his coronation in 1626.\n\nThe chief tax imposed by Charles was a feudal levy known as ship money, which proved even more unpopular, and lucrative, than tonnage and poundage before it. Previously, collection of ship money had been authorised only during wars, and only on coastal regions. Charles, however, argued that there was no legal bar to collecting the tax for defence during peacetime and throughout the whole of the kingdom. Ship money, paid directly to the Treasury of the Navy, provided between £150,000 to £200,000 annually between 1634 and 1638, after which yields declined. Opposition to ship money steadily grew, but the 12 common law judges of England declared that the tax was within the king's prerogative, though some of them had reservations. The prosecution of John Hampden for non-payment in 1637–38 provided a platform for popular protest, and the judges only found against Hampden by the narrow margin of 7–5.\n\nThe king also derived money through the granting of monopolies, despite a statute forbidding such action, which, though inefficient, raised an estimated £100,000 a year in the late 1630s. Charles also raised funds from the Scottish nobility, at the price of considerable acrimony, by the Act of Revocation (1625), whereby all gifts of royal or church land made to the nobility since 1540 were revoked, with continued ownership being subject to an annual rent. In addition, the boundaries of the royal forests in England were extended to their ancient limits as part of a scheme to maximise income by exploiting the land and fining land users within the re-asserted boundaries for encroachment. \n\nSales of Royal lands, especially the large expanses of under-developed Royal forests also contributed to finances. Courtiers were asked to survey the lands, to provide programmes to disafforest these areas. The focus of the programme was disafforestation and sale of forest lands for development as pasture and arable, or in the case of the Forest of Dean, development for the iron industry. This included providing compensation to people using the lands in common, especially manorial lords and their tenants. Others who had settled illegally were not entitled to compensation and frequently rioted. The discontent following a major wave of sales included what was known as the Western Rising, but extended beyond, for instance to riots in Feckenham Forest and Malvern Chase.\n\nThe practice of granting extensive monopolies agitated the public, who were forced to pay higher prices by the monopoly holders. Against the background of this unrest, Charles faced bankruptcy in the summer of 1640 as parliament continued to refuse new taxes. The City of London, preoccupied with its own grievances further refused to make any loans to the king, and likewise he was unable to subscribe any foreign loans. In this extremity, Charles seized the money held in trust at the mint of the Exchequer in the tower of London. The royal mint held a monopoly on the exchange of foreign coin and from this the mint operated as a bank containing much capital of the merchants and goldsmiths of the city. In July, Charles seized all £130,000 of this money, and in August he followed it up by seizing all the stocks of pepper held by the East India Company, and selling it at distress prices.\n\nOn the other side of the ledger, the government tried to reduce expenditure, especially by avoiding war (thus pursuing an isolationist foreign policy) and also avoiding large-scale innovations on the domestic front. Of equal importance, Charles learned to spend less extravagantly compared to his father.\n\nThe Personal Rule began to unravel in 1637, when Charles, along with his advisor Archbishop Laud, attempted to reform the then-episcopal Church of Scotland to bring it into line, especially in its liturgy, with the Church of England. This met with immense Scottish opposition and when negotiations broke down, a Scottish army invaded England (see the Bishop's War). Charles could not afford to pay English troops to fight the Scots, and was obliged in 1640 to call the Short Parliament. This ended the Personal Rule, though Charles dissolved the Short Parliament after only a few days; by the end of the year, with the Scots still in England and no other routes left to him, he summoned the Long Parliament. In the months that followed, the Parliamentary leaders, turning their attention to domestic matters, demanded from Charles ever more sweeping concessions over government policy. In 1642, Charles left London to raise an army and regain control by force, and the English Civil War began.\n\n"}
{"id": "36686915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36686915", "title": "Political ethics", "text": "Political ethics\n\nPolitical ethics (also known as political morality or public ethics) is the practice of making moral judgements about political action and political agents. It covers two areas. The first is the ethics of process (or the ethics of office), which deals with public officials and the methods they use. The second area, the ethics of policy (or ethics and public policy) concerns judgments about policies and laws.\n\nThe Italian Niccolò Machiavelli is heralded as the founding father of the political ethics. He believed that a political leader may be required to commit acts that would be wrong if done by private. In contemporary democracies, this idea has been reframed as the problem of dirty hands, described most influentially by Michael Walzer, who argues that the problem creates a paradox: the politician must sometimes do “wrong to do right”. The politician uses violence to prevent greater violence, but his act is still wrong even if justified. Walzer’s view has been criticized. Some critics object that either the politician is justified or not. If justified, there is nothing wrong, though he may feel guilty. Others say that some of the acts of violence that Walzer would allow are never justified, no matter what the ends. Dennis Thompson has argued that in a democracy citizens should hold the leader responsible, and therefore if the act is unjustified their hands are dirty too. \n\nIn large organizations it is often not possible to tell who is actually responsible for the outcomes—a problem known as the problem of many hands.\n\nPolitical ethics not only permit leaders to do things that would be wrong in private life, but also requires them to meet higher standards than would be necessary in private life. They may, for example, have less of a right of privacy than do ordinary citizens, and no right to use their office for personal profit. The major issues here concern conflict of interest.\n\nIn the other area of political ethics, the key issues are not the conflict between means and ends but the conflicts among the ends themselves. For example, in the question of global justice, the conflict is between the claims of the nation state and citizens on one side and the claims of all citizens of the world. Traditionally, priority has been given to the claims of nations, but in recent years thinkers known as cosmopolitans have pressed the claims of all citizens of the world.\n\nPolitical ethics deals not mainly with ideal justice, however, but with realizing moral values in democratic societies where citizens (and philosophers) disagree about what ideal justice is. In a pluralist society, how if at all can governments justify a policy of progressive taxation, affirmative action, the right to abortion, universal healthcare, and the like? Political ethics is also concerned with moral problems raised by the need for political compromise, whistleblowing, civil disobedience, and criminal punishment.\n\nSome critics (so called political realists) argue that ethics has no place in politics. If politicians are to be effective in the real world, they cannot be bound by moral rules. They have to pursue the national interest. However, Walzer points out that if the realists are asked to justify their claims, they will almost always appeal to moral principles of their own (for example, to show that ethics is harmful or counterproductive).\n\nAnother kind of criticism comes from those who argue that we should not pay so much attention to politicians and policies but should instead look more closely at the larger structures of society where the most serious ethical problems lie. Advocates of political ethics respond that while structural injustice should not be ignored, too much emphasis on structures neglects the human agents who are responsible for changing them.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8838808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8838808", "title": "Protective sign", "text": "Protective sign\n\nProtective signs are symbols to be used during an armed conflict to mark persons and objects under the protection of various treaties of international humanitarian law (IHL). While their essential meaning can be summarized as \"Don't shoot\" or \"Don't attack\", the exact conditions implied vary depending on the respective sign and the circumstances of its use. The form, shape and color of these signs are defined by the rules of IHL. Usually, they are easy to draw in order to make even an improvised use as easy as possible, and they were chosen to be as concise, recognizable and visible as possible under all circumstances.\n\nUsage of protective signs is restricted to armed conflicts. They are to be used only by eligible organizations or groups to mark their personnel, vehicles, buildings and other objects. The misuse of protective signs is a violation of international humanitarian law and punishable under the national law of all countries who are state parties to the respective treaties.\n\nThe following signs have a protective meaning under certain conditions:\n\n\nOf these symbols, the distinctive flag of the Roerich Pact was superseded by the distinctive marking of cultural property as defined by the Hague Convention of 1954. However, the emblem of the Roerich Pact is still a valid protective sign in the relations between states which are bound by the Washington Treaty of 1935 but not by the convention of 1954. In part because of the efforts of the U.S. Committee of the Blue Shield, the United States Senate ratified the convention of 1954 on 2008-09-28, so as of that date, Chile is the only state where this still applies.\n\n"}
{"id": "4050068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4050068", "title": "Resisting arrest", "text": "Resisting arrest\n\nIn some countries, resisting arrest is a criminal charge against an individual who has committed, depending on the jurisdiction, at least one of the following acts:\n\n\nThe courts in the United States regard resisting arrest as a separate charge or crime in addition to other alleged crimes committed by the arrested person. It is possible to be charged, tried and convicted on this charge alone, without any underlying cause for the original decision to arrest or even if the original arrest was clearly illegal. Accordingly, it is never advisable to resist even an unlawful arrest as it will likely result in the use of force by the arresting officer and the addition of the charge of resisting. In most states, see below, resisting arrest is a misdemeanor which can result in jail time.\n\nA person commits the crime of resisting arrest if he intentionally prevents or attempts to prevent a peace officer from affecting a lawful arrest of himself or of another person.\n(b) Resisting arrest is a Class B misdemeanor.\nA person commits the crime of resisting or interfering with arrest if, knowing that a peace officer is making an arrest, with the intent of preventing the officer from making the arrest, the person resists personal arrest or interferes with the arrest of another by\n(1) force;\n(2) committing any degree of criminal mischief; or\n(3) any means that creates a substantial risk of physical injury to any person.\n(b) Resisting or interfering with arrest is a class A misdemeanor.\nA person commits resisting arrest by intentionally preventing or attempting to prevent a person reasonably known to him to be a peace officer, acting under color of such peace officer's official authority, from effecting an arrest by: (1). Using or threatening to use physical force against the peace officer or another (2) Using any other means creating a substantial risk of causing physical injury to the peace officer or another (3) Engaging in passive resistance. B. Resisting arrest pursuant to subsection A, paragraph 1 or 2 of this section is a class 6 felony. Resisting arrest pursuant to subsection A, paragraph 3 of this section is a class 1 misdemeanor. C. For the purposes of this section, \"passive resistance\" means a nonviolent physical act or failure to act that is intended to impede, hinder or delay the effecting of an arrest.\n\nA person commits the offense of resisting arrest if he or she knowingly resists a person known by him or her to be a law enforcement officer effecting an arrest. (2) As used in this subsection, \"resists\" means using or threatening to use physical force or any other means that creates a substantial risk of physical injury to any person. (3) It is no defense to a prosecution under this subsection that the law enforcement officer lacked legal authority to make the arrest if the law enforcement officer was acting under color of his or her official authority. (4) Resisting arrest is a Class A misdemeanor. (b) (1) A person commits the offense of refusal to submit to arrest if he or she knowingly refuses to submit to arrest by a person known by him or her to be a law enforcement officer effecting an arrest. (2) As used in this subsection, \"refuses\" means active or passive refusal. (3) It is no defense to a prosecution under this subsection that the law enforcement officer lacked legal authority to make the arrest if the law enforcement officer was acting under color of his or her official authority. (4) Refusal to submit to arrest is a Class B misdemeanor.\n\nEvery person who willfully resists, delays, or obstructs any public officer, peace officer, or an emergency medical technician, as defined in Division 2.5 (commencing with Section 1797) of the Health and Safety Code, in the discharge or attempt to discharge any duty of his or her office or employment, when no other punishment is prescribed, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000), or by imprisonment in a county jail not to exceed one year, or by both that fine and imprisonment.\n\nA person commits resisting arrest if he knowingly prevents or attempts to prevent a peace officer, acting under color of his official authority, from effecting an arrest of the actor or another, by: (a) Using or threatening to use physical force or violence against the peace officer or another; or (b) Using any other means which creates a substantial risk of causing bodily injury to the peace officer or another. It is no defense to a prosecution under this section that the peace officer was attempting to make an arrest which in fact was unlawful, if he was acting under color of his official authority, and in attempting to make the arrest he was not resorting to unreasonable or excessive force giving rise to the right of self-defense. A peace officer acts \"under color of his official authority\" when, in the regular course of assigned duties, he is called upon to make, and does make, a judgment in good faith based upon surrounding facts and circumstances that an arrest should be made by him. The term \"peace officer\" as used in this section and section 18-8-104 means a peace officer in uniform or, if out of uniform, one who has identified himself by exhibiting his credentials as such peace officer to the person whose arrest is attempted. Resisting arrest is a class 2 misdemeanor.\n\nInterfering with an Officer:\n\nA person is guilty of interfering with an officer when such person obstructs, resists, hinders or endangers any (peace officer / special policeman / motor vehicle inspector / firefighter) in the performance of such (peace officer's / special policeman’s / inspector’s / firefighter's) duties.\n\nResisting Arrest With Force:\n\nThe effect of § 53a-23 is to require a person to submit to an arrest, even if he or she believes, and ultimately it is determined, that the arrest is illegal. This provision must be charged in conjunction with the crimes of Interfering with an Officer (§ 53a-167a) or Assault on Public Safety or Emergency Medical Personnel (§ 53a-167c). See Interfering with an Officer, Instruction 4.3-1, and Assault of Public Safety or Emergency Medical Personnel, Instruction 4.3-3.\n\nA person is guilty of resisting arrest with force or violence when: (1) The person intentionally prevents or attempts to prevent a police officer from effecting an arrest or detention of the person or another person by use of force or violence towards said police officer, or (2) Intentionally flees from a police officer who is effecting an arrest against them by use of force or violence towards said police officer, or (3) Injures or struggles with said police officer causing injury to the police officer. Resisting arrest with force or violence is a class G felony. (b) A person is guilty of resisting arrest when the person intentionally prevents or attempts to prevent a peace officer from effecting an arrest or detention of the person or another person or intentionally flees from a peace officer who is effecting an arrest. Resisting arrest is a class A misdemeanor.\n\nResisting officer without violence to his or her person.—Whoever shall resist, obstruct, or oppose any officer as defined in s. 943.10(1), (2), (3), (6), (7), (8), or (9); member of the Florida Commission on Offender Review or any administrative aide or supervisor employed by the commission; county probation officer; parole and probation supervisor; personnel or representative of the Department of Law Enforcement; or other person legally authorized to execute process in the execution of legal process or in the lawful execution of any legal duty, without offering or doing violence to the person of the officer, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree, punishable as provided in s. 775.082 or s. 775.083.\n\nObstructing or hindering law enforcement officers:\n\nExcept as otherwise provided in subsection (b) of this Code section, a person who knowingly and willfully obstructs or hinders any law enforcement officer in the lawful discharge of his official duties is guilty of a misdemeanor. (b) Whoever knowingly and willfully resists, obstructs, or opposes any law enforcement officer, prison guard, correctional officer, probation supervisor, parole supervisor, or conservation ranger in the lawful discharge of his official duties by offering or doing violence to the person of such officer or legally authorized person is guilty of a felony and shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by imprisonment for not less than one nor more than five years.\n\nA person commits the offense of resisting arrest if the person intentionally prevents a law enforcement officer acting under color of the law enforcement officer's official authority from effecting an arrest by: (a) Using or threatening to use physical force against the law enforcement officer or another; or (b) Using any other means creating a substantial risk of causing bodily injury to the law enforcement officer or another. (2) Resisting arrest is a misdemeanor. [L 1972, c 9, pt of §1; gen ch 1993; am L 2001, c 91, §4]\n\nEvery person who willfully resists, delays or obstructs any public officer, in the discharge, or attempt to discharge, of any duty of his office or who knowingly gives a false report to any peace officer, when no other punishment is prescribed, is punishable by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000), and imprisonment in the county jail not exceeding one (1) year.\n\nA person who knowingly resists or obstructs the performance by one known to the person to be a peace officer, firefighter, or correctional institution employee of any authorized act within his or her official capacity commits a Class A misdemeanor.\n\nA person who knowingly or intentionally: (1) forcibly resists, obstructs, or interferes with a law enforcement officer or a person assisting the officer while the officer is lawfully engaged in the execution of the officer's duties; (2) forcibly resists, obstructs, or interferes with the authorized service or execution of a civil or criminal process or order of a court; or (3) flees from a law enforcement officer after the officer has, by visible or audible means, including operation of the law enforcement officer's siren or emergency lights, identified himself or herself and ordered the person to stop; commits resisting law enforcement, a Class A misdemeanor, except as provided in subsection (b)(b) The offense under subsection (a) is a: (1) Class D felony if: (A) the offense is described in subsection (a)(3) and the person uses a vehicle to commit the offense; or(B) while committing any offense described in subsection (a), the person draws or uses a deadly weapon, inflicts bodily injury on or otherwise causes bodily injury to another person, or operates a vehicle in a manner that creates a substantial risk of bodily injury to another person; (2) Class C felony if, while committing any offense described in subsection (a), the person operates a vehicle in a manner that causes serious bodily injury to another person; and (3) Class B felony if, while committing any offense described in subsection (a), the person operates a vehicle in a manner that causes the death of another person. (c) For purposes of this section, a law enforcement officer includes an enforcement officer of the alcohol and tobacco commission and a conservation officer of the department of natural resources. (d) If a person uses a vehicle to commit a felony offense under subsection (b)(1)(B), (b)(2), or (b)(3), as part of the criminal penalty imposed for the offense, the court shall impose a minimum executed sentence of at least: (1) thirty (30) days, if no prior unrelated conviction under this section exists; (2) one hundred eighty (180) days, if one (1) prior unrelated conviction; (3) one (1) year, if two (2) plus unrelated convictions. (e) Mandatory minimum may not be suspended, IC 35-50-2-2 and IC 35-50-3-1.\n\nA person is not authorized to use force to resist an arrest, either of the person's self, or another which the person knows is being made either by a peace officer or by a private person summoned and directed by a peace officer to make the arrest, even if the person believes that the arrest is unlawful or the arrest is in fact unlawful.\n\nInterference with law enforcement: (1) Falsely reporting to a law enforcement officer or state investigative agency:(A) That a particular person has committed a crime, knowing that such information is false and intending that the officer or agency shall act in reliance upon such information; or (B) any information, knowing that such information is false and intending to influence, impede or obstruct such officer's or agency's duty (2) concealing, destroying or materially altering evidence with the intent to prevent or hinder the apprehension or prosecution of any person; or (3) knowingly obstructing, resisting or opposing any person authorized by law to serve process in the service or execution or in the attempt to serve or execute any writ, warrant, process or order of a court, or in the discharge of any official duty. (b) (1) Interference with law enforcement as defined in subsection (a)(1) or (a)(2) is a class A nonperson misdemeanor, except as provided in subsection (b)(2).\n\nA person is guilty of resisting arrest when he intentionally prevents or attempts to prevent a peace officer, recognized to be acting under color of his official authority, from effecting an arrest of the actor or another by: (a) Using or threatening to use physical force or violence against the peace officer or another; or (b) Using any other means creating a substantial risk of causing physical injury to the peace officer or another. (2) Resisting arrest is a Class A misdemeanor.\n\nResisting an officer is the intentional interference with, opposition or resistance to, or obstruction of an individual acting in his official capacity and authorized by law to make a lawful arrest, lawful detention, or seizure of property or to serve any lawful process or court order when the offender knows or has reason to know that the person arresting, detaining, seizing property, or serving process is acting in his official capacity. B. (1) The phrase \"obstruction of\" as used herein shall, in addition to its common meaning, signification, and connotation mean the following: (a) Flight by one sought to be arrested before the arresting officer can restrain him and after notice is given that he is under arrest. (b) Any violence toward or any resistance or opposition to the arresting officer after the arrested party is actually placed under arrest and before he is incarcerated in jail. (c) Refusal by the arrested or detained party to give his name and make his identity known to the arresting or detaining officer or providing false information regarding the identity of such party to the officer. (d) Congregation with others on a public street and refusal to move on when ordered by the officer. (2) The word \"officer\" as used herein means any peace officer, as defined in R.S. 40:2402, and includes deputy sheriffs, municipal police officers, probation and parole officers, city marshals and deputies, and wildlife enforcement agents. C. Whoever commits the crime of resisting an officer shall be fined not more than five hundred dollars or be imprisoned for not more than six months, or both.\n\nRefusing to submit to arrest or detention. A person is guilty of refusing to submit to an arrest or a detention if, with the intent to hinder, delay or prevent a law enforcement officer from effecting the arrest or detention, that person: A. Uses physical force against the law enforcement officer; or B. Creates a substantial risk of bodily injury to the law enforcement officer. 2. It is a defense to prosecution under this section that: A. The person knew that the law enforcement officer knew that the arrest or detention was illegal; or B. The person reasonably believed that the person attempting to effect the arrest or detention was not a law enforcement officer. 3. Refusing to submit to an arrest or a detention is a Class D crime.\n\n\"Police officer\" defined.- In this section, \"police officer\" means an individual who is authorized to make an arrest under Title 2 of the Criminal Procedure Article. (b) Prohibited.- A person may not intentionally: (1) resist a lawful arrest; or (2) interfere with an individual who the person has reason to know is a police officer who is making or attempting to make a lawful arrest or detention of another person. (c) Penalty.- A person who violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor and is subject to imprisonment not exceeding 3 years or a fine not exceeding $5,000 or both. (d) Unit of prosecution.- The unit of prosecution for a violation of this section is based on the arrest or detention regardless of the number of police officers involved in the arrest or detention.\n\nRESISTING ARREST The defendant is charged with resisting arrest. Section 32B of chapter 268 of our General Laws provides as follows: “A person commits the crime of resisting arrest if he [she] knowingly prevents or attempts to prevent a police officer, acting under color of his [her] official authority, from effecting an arrest of [himself] or another [either] by using or threatening to use physical force or violence against the police officer or another; or [by] using any other means which creates a substantial risk of causing bodily injury to such police officer or another.” In order to prove the defendant guilty of this offense, the Commonwealth must prove four things beyond a reasonable doubt: First: That the defendant prevented or attempted to prevent a police officer from making an arrest (of the defendant) (or) (of another person); Second: That the officer was acting under color of his (her) official authority at the time; Third: That the defendant resisted: either by using, or threatening to use, physical force or violence against the police officer (or another person); or by using some other means which created a substantial risk of causing bodily injury to the police officer (or another person); and Fourth: That the defendant did so knowingly; that is to say, that the defendant knew at the time that he (she) was acting to prevent an arrest by a police officer acting under color of his (her) official authority. As I have indicated, the Commonwealth must prove that the police officer was acting “under color of official authority.” A police officer acts “under color of official authority” when, in the regular course of assigned duties, he (she) makes a judgment in good faith, based on the surrounding facts and circumstances, that he (she) should make an arrest.\n\nAssaulting, battering, resisting, obstructing, opposing person performing duty; felony; penalty; other violations; consecutive terms; definitions:\n\nExcept as provided in subsections (2), (3), and (4), an individual who assaults, batters, wounds, resists, obstructs, opposes, or endangers a person who the individual knows or has reason to know is performing his or her duties is guilty of a felony punishable by imprisonment for not more than 2 years or a fine of not more than $2,000.00, or both. (2) An individual who assaults, batters, wounds, resists, obstructs, opposes, or endangers a person who the individual knows or has reason to know is performing his or her duties causing a bodily injury requiring medical attention or medical care to that person is guilty of a felony punishable by imprisonment for not more than 4 years or a fine of not more than $5,000.00, or both. (3) An individual who assaults, batters, wounds, resists, obstructs, opposes, or endangers a person who the individual knows or has reason to know is performing his or her duties causing a serious impairment of a body function of that person is guilty of a felony punishable by imprisonment for not more than 15 years or a fine of not more than $10,000.00, or both. (4) An individual who assaults, batters, wounds, resists, obstructs, opposes, or endangers a person who the individual knows or has reason to know is performing his or her duties causing the death of that person is guilty of a felony punishable by imprisonment for not more than 20 years or a fine of not more than $20,000.00, or both. (5) This section does not prohibit an individual from being charged with, convicted of, or punished for any other violation of law that is committed by that individual while violating this section. (6) A term of imprisonment imposed for a violation of this section may run consecutively to any term of imprisonment imposed for another violation arising from the same transaction. (7) As used in this section: (a) \"Obstruct\" includes the use or threatened use of physical interference or force or a knowing failure to comply with a lawful command. (b) \"Person\" means any of the following: (i) A police officer of this state or of a political subdivision of this state including, but not limited to, a motor carrier officer or capitol security officer of the department of state police. (ii) A police officer of a junior college, college, or university who is authorized by the governing board of that junior college, college, or university to enforce state law and the rules and ordinances of that junior college, college, or university. (iii) A conservation officer of the department of natural resources or the department of environmental quality. (iv) A conservation officer of the United States department of the interior. (v) A sheriff or deputy sheriff. (vi) A constable. (vii) A peace officer of a duly authorized police agency of the United States, including, but not limited to, an agent of the secret service or department of justice. (viii) A firefighter. (ix) Any emergency medical service personnel described in section 20950 of the public health code, 1978 PA 368, MCL 333.20950. (x) An individual engaged in a search and rescue operation as that term is defined in section 50c.(c) \"Serious impairment of a body function\" means that term as defined in section 58c of the Michigan vehicle code, 1949 PA 300, MCL 257.58c.\n\nObstructing Legal Process, Arrest, or Firefighting:\n\nobstructs, hinders, or prevents the lawful execution of any legal process, civil or criminal, or apprehension of another on a charge or conviction of a criminal offense; (2) obstructs, resists, or interferes with a peace officer while the officer is engaged in the performance of official duties; (3) interferes with or obstructs a firefighter while the firefighter is engaged in the performance of official duties; (4) interferes with or obstructs a member of an ambulance service personnel crew, as defined in section144E.001, subdivision 3a, who is providing, or attempting to provide, emergency care; or (5) by force or threat of force endeavors to obstruct any employee of the Department of Revenue while the employee is lawfully engaged in the performance of official duties for the purpose of deterring or interfering with the performance of those duties.\n\nIt shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct or resist by force, or violence, or threats, or in any other manner, his lawful arrest or the lawful arrest of another person by any state, local or federal law enforcement officer, and any person or persons so doing shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not more than Five Hundred Dollars ($500.00), or by imprisonment in the county jail not more than six (6) months, or both.\n\nA person commits the offense of resisting or interfering with arrest, detention, or stop if he or she knows or reasonably should know that a law enforcement officer is making an arrest or attempting to lawfully detain or stop an individual or vehicle, and for the purpose of preventing the officer from effecting the arrest, stop or detention, he or she: (1) Resists the arrest, stop or detention of such person by using or threatening the use of violence or physical force or by fleeing from such officer; or (2) Interferes with the arrest, stop or detention of another person by using or threatening the use of violence, physical force or physical interference. 2. This section applies to: (1) Arrests, stops, or detentions, with or without warrants; (2) Arrests, stops, or detentions, for any offense, infraction, or ordinance violation; and (3) Arrests for warrants issued by a court or a probation and parole officer. 3. A person is presumed to be fleeing a vehicle stop if he or she continues to operate a motor vehicle after he or she has seen or should have seen clearly visible emergency lights or has heard or should have heard an audible signal emanating from the law enforcement vehicle pursuing him or her. 4. It is no defense to a prosecution pursuant to subsection 1 of this section that the law enforcement officer was acting unlawfully in making the arrest. However, nothing in this section shall be construed to bar civil suits for unlawful arrest. 5. The offense of resisting or interfering with an arrest is a class E felony for an arrest for a: (1) Felony; (2) Warrant issued for failure to appear on a felony case; or (3) Warrant issued for a probation violation on a felony case. The offense of resisting an arrest, detention or stop in violation of subdivision (1) or (2) of subsection 1 of this section is a class A misdemeanor, unless the person fleeing creates a substantial risk of serious physical injury or death to any person, in which case it is a class E felony.\n\nObstructing a Peace Officer or Public Servant:\n\nA person commits the offense of obstructing a peace officer or public servant if the person knowingly obstructs, impairs, or hinders the enforcement of the criminal law, the preservation of the peace, or the performance of a governmental function, including service of process. (2) It is no defense to a prosecution under this section that the peace officer was acting in an illegal manner, provided that the peace officer was acting under the peace officer's official authority. (3) A person convicted of the offense of obstructing a peace officer or other public servant, including a person serving process, shall be fined not to exceed $500 or be imprisoned in the county jail for a term not to exceed 6 months, or both.\n\nA person commits the offense of resisting arrest if, while intentionally preventing or attempting to prevent a peace officer, acting under color of his or her official authority, from effecting an arrest of the actor or another, he or she: (a) Uses or threatens to use physical force or violence against the peace officer or another; or (b) Uses any other means which creates a substantial risk of causing physical injury to the peace officer or another; or (c) Employs means requiring substantial force to overcome resistance to effecting the arrest. (2) It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under this section if the peace officer involved was out of uniform and did not identify himself or herself as a peace officer by showing his or her credentials to the person whose arrest is attempted. (3) Resisting arrest is (a) a Class I misdemeanor for the first such offense and (b) a Class IIIA felony for any second or subsequent such offense. (4) Resisting arrest through the use of a deadly or dangerous weapon is a Class IIIA felony.\n\nResisting public officer. \n\nA person who, in any case or under any circumstances not otherwise specially provided for, willfully resists, delays or obstructs a public officer in discharging or attempting to discharge any legal duty of his or her office shall be punished: 1. Where a firearm is used in the course of such resistance, obstruction or delay, or the person intentionally removes, takes or attempts to remove or take a firearm from the person of, or the immediate presence of, the public officer in the course of such resistance, obstruction or delay, for a category C felony as provided in NRS 193.130.2. Where a dangerous weapon, other than a firearm, is used in the course of such resistance, obstruction or delay, or the person intentionally removes, takes or attempts to remove or take a weapon, other than a firearm, from the person of, or the immediate presence of, the public officer in the course of such resistance, obstruction or delay, for a category D felony as provided in NRS 193.130.3. Where no dangerous weapon is used in the course of such resistance, obstruction or delay, for a misdemeanor.\n\nA person is guilty of a misdemeanor when the person knowingly or purposely physically interferes with a person recognized to be a law enforcement official, including a probation or parole officer, seeking to effect an arrest or detention of the person or another regardless of whether there is a legal basis for the arrest. A person is guilty of a class B felony if the act of resisting arrest or detention causes serious bodily injury, as defined in RSA 625:11, VI, to another person. Verbal protestations alone shall not constitute resisting arrest or detention.\n\nExcept as provided in paragraph (3), a person is guilty of a disorderly persons offense if he purposely prevents or attempts to prevent a law enforcement officer from effecting an arrest. (2) Except as provided in paragraph (3), a person is guilty of a crime of the fourth degree if he, by flight, purposely prevents or attempts to prevent a law enforcement officer from effecting an arrest. (3) An offense under paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection a. is a crime of the third degree if the person: (a) Uses or threatens to use physical force or violence against the law enforcement officer or another; or (b) Uses any other means to create a substantial risk of causing physical injury to the public servant or another. It is not a defense to a prosecution under this subsection that the law enforcement officer was acting unlawfully in making the arrest, provided he was acting under color of his official authority and provided the law enforcement officer announces his intention to arrest prior to the resistance.\n\nknowingly obstructing, resisting or opposing any officer of this state or any other duly authorized person serving or attempting to serve or execute any process or any rule or order of any of the courts of this state or any other judicial writ or process; B. intentionally fleeing, attempting to evade or evading an officer of this state when the person committing the act of fleeing, attempting to evade or evasion has knowledge that the officer is attempting to apprehend or arrest him; C. willfully refusing to bring a vehicle to a stop when given a visual or audible signal to stop, whether by hand, voice, emergency light, flashing light, siren or other signal, by a uniformed officer in an appropriately marked police vehicle; D. resisting or abusing any judge, magistrate or peace officer in the lawful discharge of his duties.Whoever commits resisting, evading or obstructing an officer is guilty of a misdemeanor.\n\nA person is guilty of resisting arrest when he intentionally prevents or attempts to prevent a police officer or peace officer from effecting an authorized arrest of himself or another person. Resisting arrest is a class A misdemeanor.\n\nResisting officers. If any person shall willfully and unlawfully resist, delay or obstruct a public officer in discharging or attempting to discharge a duty of his office, he shall be guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor.\n\nA person is guilty of a class A misdemeanor if, with intent to prevent a public servant\nfrom effecting an arrest of himself or another for a misdemeanor or infraction, or from\ndischarging any other official duty, he creates a substantial risk of bodily injury to the\npublic servant or to anyone except himself, or employs means justifying or requiring\nsubstantial force to overcome resistance to effecting the arrest or the discharge of the\nduty. A person is guilty of a class C felony if, with intent to prevent a public servant\nfrom effecting an arrest of himself or another for a class A, B, or C felony, he creates a\nsubstantial risk of bodily injury to the public servant or to anyone except himself, or\nemploys means justifying or requiring substantial force to overcome resistance to\neffecting such an arrest.\n2. It is a defense to a prosecution under this section that the public servant was not\nacting lawfully, but it is no defense that the defendant mistakenly believed that the\npublic servant was not acting lawfully. A public servant executing a warrant or other\nprocess in good faith and under color of law shall be deemed to be acting lawfully.\n\nNo person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a lawful arrest of the person or another. (B) No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a lawful arrest of the person or another person and, during the course of or as a result of the resistance or interference, cause physical harm to a law enforcement officer. (C) No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a lawful arrest of the person or another person if either of the following applies: (1) The offender, during the course of or as a result of the resistance or interference, recklessly causes physical harm to a law enforcement officer by means of a deadly weapon; (2) The offender, during the course of the resistance or interference, brandishes a deadly weapon. (D) Whoever violates this section is guilty of resisting arrest. A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second degree. A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony of the fourth degree.(E) As used in this section, \"deadly weapon\" has the same meaning as in section 2923.11 of the Revised Code.\n\nNo person may be convicted of resisting a/an peace/executive officer unless the State has proved beyond a reasonable doubt each element of the crime. These elements are: First, knowingly. Second, by the use of force/violence. Third, resisting. Fourth, a/an peace/executive officer. Filth, in the performance of his/her official duties.\n\nA person commits the crime of resisting arrest if the person intentionally resists a person known by the person to be a peace officer or parole and probation officer in making an arrest.(2)As used in this section: (a) Arrest has the meaning given that term in ORS 133.005(Definitions for ORS 133.005 to 133.400 and 133.410 to 133.450) and includes, but is not limited to, the booking process. (b) Parole and probation officer has the meaning given that term in ORS 181.610 (Definitions for ORS 181.610 to 181.712). (c) Resists means the use or threatened use of violence, physical force or any other means that creates a substantial risk of physical injury to any person and includes, but is not limited to, behavior clearly intended to prevent being taken into custody by overcoming the actions of the arresting officer. The behavior does not have to result in actual physical injury to an officer. Passive resistance does not constitute behavior intended to prevent being taken into custody. (3) It is no defense to a prosecution under this section that the peace officer or parole and probation officer lacked legal authority to make the arrest or book the person, provided the officer was acting under color of official authority. (4) Resisting arrest is a Class A misdemeanor. [1971 c.743 §206; 1989 c.877 §1; 1997 c.749 §3;\n\nA person commits a misdemeanor of the second degree if, with the intent of preventing a public servant from effecting a lawful arrest or discharging any other duty, the person creates a substantial risk of bodily injury to the public servant or anyone else, or employs means justifying or requiring substantial force to overcome the resistance.\n\n(a) It shall be unlawful for any person to use force or any weapon in resisting a legal or an illegal arrest by a peace officer, if the person has reasonable ground to believe that he or she is being arrested and that the arrest is being made by a peace officer. (b) Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be punished by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars ($500) or by imprisonment for not more than one year, or by both fine and imprisonment.\n\nIt is unlawful for a person knowingly and willfully to interfere or resist a law enforcement officer or other authorized person in serving, executing, or attempting to serve or execute a legal, criminal, or civil writ or process or to resist an arrest being made by one whom the person knows or reasonably should know is a law enforcement officer or other authorized person, whether under process or not. A person who violates the provisions of this subsection is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, for a: (1) first offense, must be fined not less than five hundred dollars nor more than one thousand dollars or imprisoned not more than one year, or both; (2) second offense, must be fined not less than one thousand dollars nor more than two thousand dollars or imprisoned not more than two years, or both; and (3) third or subsequent offense, must be fined not less than three thousand dollars nor more than five thousand dollars or imprisoned not less than two years, or both.\n\nAny person who intentionally prevents or attempts to prevent a law enforcement officer, acting under color of authority, from effecting an arrest of the actor or another, by: (1) Using or threatening to use physical force or violence against the law enforcement officer or any other person; or (2) Using any other means which creates a substantial risk of causing physical injury to the law enforcement officer or any other person;is guilty of resisting arrest. Resisting arrest is a Class 1 misdemeanor.\n\nIt is an offense for a person to intentionally prevent or obstruct anyone known to the person to be a law enforcement officer, or anyone acting in a law enforcement officer's presence and at the officer's direction, from effecting a stop, frisk, halt, arrest or search of any person, including the defendant, by using force against the law enforcement officer or another. (b) Except as provided in § 39-11-611, it is no defense to prosecution under this section that the stop, frisk, halt, arrest or search was unlawful. (c) It is an offense for a person to intentionally prevent or obstruct an officer of the state or any other person known to be a civil process server in serving, or attempting to serve or execute, any legal writ or process. (d) A violation of this section is a Class B misdemeanor unless the defendant uses a deadly weapon to resist the stop, frisk, halt, arrest, search or process server, in which event the violation is a Class A misdemeanor.\n\nA person commits an offense if he intentionally prevents or obstructs a person he knows is a peace officer or a person acting in a peace officer's presence and at his direction from effecting an arrest, search, or transportation of the actor or another by using force against the peace officer or another. (b) It is no defense to prosecution under this section that the arrest or search was unlawful. (c) Except as provided in Subsection (d), an offense under this section is a Class A misdemeanor. (d) An offense under this section is a felony of the third degree if the actor uses a deadly weapon to resist the arrest or search.\n\nThe crime of \"evading arrest or detention\" is distinct from the crime of \"resisting arrest, search, or transportation.\" A person commits the offense of evading arrest if \"he intentionally flees from a person he knows is a peace officer or federal special investigator attempting lawfully to arrest or detain him.\" Evading arrest is a misdemeanor when committed without aggravating factors, but is a felony if the actor has a previous conviction for it, the actor uses a vehicle while in flight, or \"another suffers serious bodily injury as a direct result of an attempt by the officer or investigator from whom the actor is fleeing to apprehend the actor while the actor is in flight.\"\n\nInterference with arresting officer.\n\nA person is guilty of a class B misdemeanor if he has knowledge, or by the exercise of reasonable care should have knowledge, that a peace officer is seeking to effect a lawful arrest or detention of that person or another and interferes with the arrest or detention by: (1) use of force or any weapon; (2) the arrested person’s refusal to perform any act required by lawful order: (a) necessary to effect the arrest or detention; and (b) made by a peace officer involved in the arrest or detention; or (3) the arrested person’s or another person’s refusal to refrain from performing any act that would impede the arrest or detention.\n\nA person who intentionally attempts to prevent a lawful arrest on himself or herself, which is being effected or attempted by a law enforcement officer, when it would reasonably appear that the latter is a law enforcement officer, shall: (1) for the first offense, be imprisoned not more than one year or fined not more than $500.00, or both; (2) for the second offense and subsequent offenses, be imprisoned not more than two years or fined not more than $1,000.00, or both. (b) A defendant's mistaken belief in the unlawfulness of the arrest shall not be a defense to a prosecution under this section. (c) A person may not be convicted of both an escape from lawful custody, as defined in subdivision 1501(a)(2) of this title, and a violation of this section.\n\nAny person who intentionally prevents or attempts to prevent a law-enforcement officer from lawfully arresting him, with or without a warrant, is guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor. For purposes of this section, intentionally preventing or attempting to prevent a lawful arrest means fleeing from a law-enforcement officer when (i) the officer applies physical force to the person, or (ii) the officer communicates to the person that he is under arrest and (a) the officer has the legal authority and the immediate physical ability to place the person under arrest, and (b) a reasonable person who receives such communication knows or should know that he is not free to leave.\n\nA person is guilty of resisting arrest if he or she intentionally prevents or attempts to prevent a peace officer from lawfully arresting him or her. (2) Resisting arrest is a misdemeanor.\n\nA person who by threats, menaces, acts or otherwise forcibly or illegally hinders or obstructs or attempts to hinder or obstruct a law-enforcement officer, probation officer or parole officer acting in his or her official capacity is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500 or confined in jail not more than one year, or both fined and confined. (b) A person who intentionally disarms or attempts to disarm a law-enforcement officer, correctional officer, probation officer or parole officer, acting in his or her official capacity, is guilty of a felony and, upon conviction thereof, shall be imprisoned in a state correctional facility not less than one nor more than five years. (c) A person who, with intent to impede or obstruct a law-enforcement officer in the conduct of an investigation of a felony offense, knowingly and willfully makes a materially false statement is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $200, or confined in jail for five days, or both fined and confined. The provisions of this section do not apply to statements made by a spouse, parent, stepparent, grandparent, sibling, half sibling, child, stepchild or grandchild, whether related by blood or marriage, of the person under investigation. Statements made by the person under investigation may not be used as the basis for prosecution under this subsection. For purposes of this subsection, \"law-enforcement officer\" does not include a watchman, a member of the West Virginia State Police or college security personnel who is not a certified law-enforcement officer. (d) A person who intentionally flees or attempts to flee by any means other than the use of a vehicle from a law-enforcement officer, probation officer or parole officer acting in his or her official capacity who is attempting to make a lawful arrest of the person, and who knows or reasonably believes that the officer is attempting to arrest him or her, is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500 or confined in jail not more than one year, or both fined and confined. (e) A person who intentionally flees or attempts to flee in a vehicle from a law-enforcement officer, probation officer or parole officer acting in his or her official capacity after the officer has given a clear visual or audible signal directing the person to stop is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $1,000 and shall be confined in l jail not more than one year. (f) A person who intentionally flees or attempts to flee in a vehicle from a law-enforcement officer, probation officer or parole officer acting in his or her official capacity after the officer has given a clear visual or audible signal directing the person to stop, and who operates the vehicle in a manner showing a reckless indifference to the safety of others, is guilty of a felony and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $1,000 nor more than $2,000 and shall be imprisoned in a state correctional facility not less than one nor more than five years. (g) A person who intentionally flees or attempts to flee in a vehicle from a law-enforcement officer, probation officer or parole officer acting in his or her official capacity after the officer has given a clear visual or audible signal directing the person to stop, and who causes damage to the real or personal property of a person during or resulting from his or her flight, is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $1,000 nor more than $3,000 and shall be confined in jail for not less than six months nor more than one year. (h) A person who intentionally flees or attempts to flee in a vehicle from a law-enforcement officer, probation officer or parole officer acting in his or her official capacity after the officer has given a clear visual or audible signal directing the person to stop, and who causes bodily injury to a person during or resulting from his or her flight, is guilty of a felony and, upon conviction thereof, shall be imprisoned in a state correctional facility not less than three nor more than ten years. (i) A person who intentionally flees or attempts to flee in a vehicle from a law-enforcement officer, probation officer or parole officer acting in his or her official capacity after the officer has given a clear visual or audible signal directing the person to stop, and who causes death to a person during or resulting from his or her flight, is guilty of a felony and, upon conviction thereof, shall be imprisoned in a state correctional facility for not less than five nor more than fifteen years. A person imprisoned pursuant to this subsection is not eligible for parole prior to having served a minimum of three years of his or her sentence or the minimum period required by section thirteen, article twelve, chapter sixty-two of this code, whichever is greater. (j) A person who intentionally flees or attempts to flee in a vehicle from a law-enforcement officer, probation officer or parole officer acting in his or her official capacity after the officer has given a clear visual or audible signal directing the person to stop, and who is under the influence of alcohol, controlled substances or drugs, is guilty of a felony and, upon conviction thereof, shall be imprisoned in a state correctional facility not less than three nor more than ten years. (k) For purposes of this section, the term \"vehicle\" includes any motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat, all-terrain vehicle or snowmobile as those terms are defined in section one, article one, chapter seventeen-a of this code, whether or not it is being operated on a public highway at the time and whether or not it is licensed by the state. (l) For purposes of this section, the terms \"flee\", \"fleeing\" and \"flight\" do not include a person's reasonable attempt to travel to a safe place, allowing the pursuing law-enforcement officer to maintain appropriate surveillance, for the purpose of complying with the officer's direction to stop.(m) The revisions to subsections (e), (f), (g) and (h) of this section enacted during the regular session of the 2010 regular legislative session shall be known as the Jerry Alan Jones Act.\n\nFailure to comply with officer's attempt to take person into custody:\n\nIn this section, \"officer\" has the meaning given in s. 946.41 (2) (b).(2) Whoever intentionally does all of the following is guilty of a Class I felony: (a) Refuses to comply with an officer's lawful attempt to take him or her into custody. (b) Retreats or remains in a building or place and, through action or threat, attempts to prevent the officer from taking him or her into custody. (c) While acting under pars. (a) and (b), remains or becomes armed with a dangerous weapon or threatens to use a dangerous weapon regardless of whether he or she has a dangerous weapon.This section delineates one crime: a suspect's armed, physical refusal to be taken into custody. It can be committed by action or threat, which are alternative ways of threatening an officer to avoid being taken into custody. A jury instruction requiring unanimity on which occurred is not required.\n\nNo person shall willfully resist the chief of police or any other member of the police department, or other member of any law enforcement department, in the discharge of his duties, if known to be or identified as a police officer.B.No person shall, in any manner, wilfully assist any person in the custody of the chief of police or other police officer, or any other law enforcement officer, to escape, or rescue or attempt to rescue any other person so in custody.C.No person shall wilfully, in any way, interfere, hinder or prevent the chief of police or any other member of the police department, or any other law enforcement officer, from discharging his lawful duties.D.Any person convicted of violating any provision of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided by Chapter 1.28 of this code.\n\nThe Brazilian penal code states resistance to arrest is \"opposition to the execution of a legal act, by means of violence or threat towards a competent official executing it, or to who is assisting them\". The penalty is of from 1 to 3 years of imprisonment. Any damage caused by the violence used shall also be charged to the offender.\n\nThe Danish penal code makes allowance for some forms of eluding and thus is very different from the penal code in the United States.\n\nResisting arrest in Norway can be punished with up to 3 months in jail.\n\nAny arrest not in accordance with the procedure prescribed by law may be constitutionally resisted. Conversely, knowingly and willfully resisting a lawful police arrest with threats or violence may indirectly constitute obstructing official duty.\n\nSection 89 of the Police Act 1996 states:\n\nAssaults on constables<br>\n\n\"(1)Any person who assaults a constable in the execution of his duty, or a person assisting a constable in the execution of his duty, shall be guilty of an offence and liable on summary conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or to a fine not exceeding level 5 on the standard scale, or to both.\"\n\nThere is a further offence provided by the Vagrancy Act 1824:\n\n\"...and every person apprehended as an idle and disorderly person, and violently resisting any constable, or other peace officer so apprehending him or her, and being subsequently convicted of the offence for which he or she shall have been so apprehended; shall be deemed a rogue and vagabond, within the true intent and meaning of this Act\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10308637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10308637", "title": "SoundExchange", "text": "SoundExchange\n\nSoundExchange is a non-profit collective rights management organization. It is the sole organization designated by the U.S. Congress to collect and distribute digital performance royalties for sound recordings. It pays featured and non-featured artists and master rights owners for the non-interactive use of sound recordings under the statutory licenses set forth in and . \n\nOverseen by a board of directors composed of artists, artist representatives, and sound recording copyright owners, SoundExchange is also an advocate for music licensing reform. As of 2018 it had paid more than $5 billion to recording artists and rights owners.\nSoundExchange was created as a division of the RIAA in 2000. In 2001, major record labels and artists agreed on a standard for paying royalties earned from cable and satellite music services, and SoundExchange made its first payment, distributing $5.2 million in royalties to recording artists and labels. In 2002, four years after the Digital Millennium Copyright Act granted webcasters an automatic license to play copyrighted music provided that a royalty was paid, a lengthy arbitration process was concluded, and a royalty rate was set. SoundExchange was spun off from the RIAA and became an independent non-profit corporation in 2003. \n\nSoundExchange's first executive director was John Simson, a musician, attorney, and artist manager. Simson left the organization in 2011 and was replaced by Michael Huppe. In 2018 it was announced that the organization had extended his contract through 2021. He also serves as the chairman of the board of SXWorks, a subsidiary created by SoundExchange following its acquisition of the Canadian Musical Reproduction Rights Association (CMRRA). SXWorks provides administration and back office services to publishers to support multiple licensing configurations. \nIn 2012, the company announced that it had paid over $1 billion in royalties since 2003.As of 2018, it had paid more than $5 billion, with recording artists and rights holders paid $884 million in 2016 alone.\n\nSoundExchange exists to administer statutory licenses for sound recording copyrights, primarily through the collection and distribution of royalties for sound recording performances occurring under the jurisdiction of federal law. SoundExchange handles the following duties with respect to statutory licenses:\n\nAn administrative fee is deducted from royalties before they are distributed, with the remainder divided between the performing artists on a given recording, and the copyright owner of that recording. SoundExchange collects and distributes royalties for all artists and copyright owners covered under the statutory licenses. It has collection agreements with more than 40 international performance rights organizations around the world, allowing it to collect and pay royalties to recording artists and rights owners when their music is played in those countries. In 2017, SoundExchange expanded into music publisher administration with its acquisition of Canadian mechanical rights society CMRRA. \nSoundExchange is designated by the Librarian of Congress as the sole organization authorized to collect royalties paid by services making ephemeral phonorecords or digital audio transmissions of sound recordings, or both, under the statutory licenses set forth in 17 U.S.C. § 112 and 17 U.S.C. § 114. As of January 1, 2003, SoundExchange is designated by the United States Copyright Office to also distribute the collected royalties to copyright owners and performers entitled under and pursuant to 17 U.S.C. § 114(g)(2). Incorporated in the State of Delaware, SoundExchange is exempt from taxation under Section 501(c)(6) of the Internal Revenue Code. It operates, in part, pursuant to Copyright Office regulations set forth in 37 C.F.R. Parts 370, 380, 382, 383 and 384. \n\nSoundExchange is controlled by a Board of Directors composed of recording artists, representatives of recording artists and sound recording copyright owners. As of 2017, the board was composed of Duncan Crabtree-Ireland (SAG-AFTRA), Jay L. Cooper (attorney), Andrea Finkelstein (Sony Music Entertainment, Inc.), Ray Hair (American Federation of Musicians), Jeff Harleston (Universal Music Group), Michael Hausman (artist manager), Steve Marks (RIAA), David Byrne (artist), Kendall Minter (attorney), Richard Burgess (American Association of Independent Music), Patrick Rains (artist manager, PRA Records), Martha Reeves (artist), Perry Resnick (RZO Royalty Management), Paul Robinson (Warner Music Group), Cary Sherman (RIAA), Darius Van Arman (Secretly Group), Ron Wilcox (Warner Music Group) and Victor Zaraya (Razor & Tie).\nAs required by and , SoundExchange, along with other interested parties, participates in each periodic rate-making proceedings to establish rates that compensate copyright owners and performers for the use of copyrighted sound recordings. Such rate setting proceedings may be resolved through proceedings through the Copyright Royalty Board (CRB). \nIn December 2017, the Copyright Royalty Board (CRB) increased the Sirius XM royalty rate from 11.5% of revenue to 15.5% of revenue through 2022. The CRB also rendered a decision on royalty rates paid by Muzak and Music Choice in December 2017, reducing the royalty rates paid by those services from 8.5% of revenue to 7.5% of revenue. \n\nIn 2015 SoundExchange sued Muzak for underpayments of royalties to artists and rights holders. Because its royalty rate was established before the DMCA was enacted, Muzak's streaming services to Dish Network subscribers was allowed a grandfathered rate standard that resulted in lower royalty rates. The SoundExchange lawsuit sought to implement the standard royalty rate for new subscriptions on Muzak’s\nstreaming services to other cable/satellite TV providers. \nThe CRB judges established webcasting rates on December 16, 2015, for the 2016-2020 term – $0.0017 for non-subscription performances and $0.0020 for subscription performances for commercial webcasters in 2017, with rates for each subsequent year adjusted upward or downward, according to the Consumer Price Index for the year. As of 2018, webcasting rates were $0.0018 for non-subscription services and $0.0023 for subscription services.\nSoundExchange is an advocate for the reform of U.S. music licensing laws, seeking to ensure that music creators earn fair market value for their work when it is used on any music platform. During the 115 Congress, SoundExchange actively supported the Fair Play Fair Pay Act of 2017 (H.R.1836) and the CLASSICS Act (H.R.3301). It is a founding member of musicFIRST, a coalition of organizations representing musicians, recording artists, managers, music businesses, and performance rights advocates. \n\nIn March 2016 SoundExchange introduced an online service to allow music services to locate metadata for 20 million sound recordings in its database. The service allows users to search SoundExchange’s database of international standard recording rates, unique identifiers for sound recordings.\n\nIn January 2018 the SoundExchange subsidiary SXWorks launched NOI (Notice of Intention) Lookup. It allows songwriters and publishers to search a U.S. copyright database which indexes \"Address Unknown\" notices, the term used when a music service files an intention to use a musical work, but claims that they cannot locate the copyright owner. A free tool, it allows copyright owners to identify their work. In 2017, an average of 2.5 million monthly address unknown NOI filings were submitted to the US Copyright Office by music services. \nA 2007 royalty rate increase was reported as establishing a rate that would \"render Internet radio unsustainable, or at the very least, more ad-laden than terrestrial radio.\" Critics charged that in negotiating the royalty, SoundExchange was concerned primarily with major labels and their artists. Thousands of internet broadcasters participated in a \"day of silence\" protest by cancelling their programming on June 26, 2007.\n"}
{"id": "13193503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13193503", "title": "Sydney Declaration", "text": "Sydney Declaration\n\nThe Sydney APEC Leaders' Declaration on Climate Change, Energy Security and Clean Development was adopted at APEC Australia 2007 on 8 September 2007.\n\nThe agreement indicates the wish of signatories to work towards aspirational goals on energy efficiency per unit of GDP while encouraging forest cover in the region. The APEC wide regional aspirational goal is to reduce energy intensity by at least 25 percent by 2030 from the 2005 level, and set an APEC-wide regional goal of increasing forest cover in the region by 200,000 square kilometres by 2020.\n\nEnvironmental and climate organisations such as Greenpeace, the Australian Conservation Foundation and the Climate Action Network criticised the agreement for not setting binding targets on greenhouse gas emissions for developed countries, and that the statement was little more than a political stunt.\n\nGreenpeace pointed out that Foreign Minister Alexander Downer told an APEC lecture in Melbourne in April 2007 that aspirational targets are a \"political stunt\" and \"not a real target at all\". One Greenpeace spokesperson said the declaration should be named the \"Sydney Distraction\" on climate change.\n\nThe Australian Conservation Foundation called the declaration \"very weak\" and said the \"declaration does not advance global discussions on climate change.\"\n"}
{"id": "43585507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43585507", "title": "TXT record", "text": "TXT record\n\nA TXT record (short for text record) is a type of resource record in the Domain Name System (DNS) used to provide the ability to associate arbitrary text with a host or other name, such as human readable information about a server, network, data center, or other accounting information.\n\nA domain may have multiple TXT records associated with it, provided the DNS server implementation supports this. Each record can in turn have one or more character strings.\n\nCommon uses include verification of domain ownership; implementation of Sender Policy Framework, DomainKeys, or DomainKeys Identified Mail records for verifying the sender of email messages; and Zero-configuration networking DNS-based service discovery.\n\nTo store new types of information, the experimental RFC 1464 suggests a structured format in TXT data fields. The format consists of the attribute name followed by the value of the attribute. The name and value are separated by an equals sign (=).\n\nThe general syntax is:\nExample:\n\nThe attribute name is considered case-insensitive.\n\nDuring lookups, TXT records that do not contain an unquoted \"=\" are ignored. TXT records that seem to contain a null attribute name, that is, the TXT-DATA starts with the character \"=\", are also ignored.\n\nLeading and trailing whitespace (spaces and tabs) in the attribute name are ignored unless they are quoted with a backtick (`).\n\nNote that most DNS server implementations require a backslash (\\) or double quote (\") in a text string to be quoted with a preceding backslash. The backtick (`) was chosen as a quoting character in this syntax to avoid confusion with backslash (\\) (and remove the need for confusing strings that include sequences like \"\\\\\\\\\").\n\nAll printable ASCII characters are permitted in the attribute value. No characters need to be quoted with a backtick (`). In other words, the first unquoted equals sign in the TXT record is the name/value delimiter. All subsequent characters are part of the value.\n\n"}
{"id": "3114425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3114425", "title": "Tim Wu", "text": "Tim Wu\n\nTim Wu is an American lawyer, professor at Columbia Law School, and contributing opinion writer for the New York Times. He is best known for coining the phrase network neutrality in his 2003 paper \"Network Neutrality, Broadband Discrimination\", and popularizing the concept thereafter. Wu has also made significant contributions to antitrust policy and wireless communications policy, most notably with his \"Carterfone\" proposal.\n\nWu is a scholar of the media and technology industries, and his academic specialties include antitrust, copyright, and telecommunications law. Wu was named to \"The National Law Journal\"s \"America's 100 Most Influential Lawyers\" in 2013, as well as to the \"Politico 50\" in 2014 and 2015. Additionally, Wu was named one of \"Scientific American\"'s 50 people of the year in 2006, and one of Harvard University's 100 most influential graduates by \"02138\" magazine in 2007. His book \"The Master Switch\" was named among the best books of 2010 by \"The New Yorker\" magazine, \"Fortune\" magazine, \"Publishers Weekly\", and other publications.\n\nFrom 2011 to 2012, Wu served as a Senior Advisor to the Federal Trade Commission, and from 2015–2016 he was senior enforcement counsel and special advisor at the New York Office of the Attorney General. In 2016 Wu joined the National Economic Council in the Obama White House to work on competition policy.\n\nWu was born in Washington, D.C. and grew up in Basel, Switzerland, and Toronto, Ontario, Canada. His father, Alan Ming-ta Wu, was from Taiwan and his mother, Gillian Wu, is British-Canadian. They both studied as immunologists at the University of Toronto. Wu and his younger brother were sent to alternative schools that emphasized creativity. At school, he befriended Cory Doctorow. Wu's father died in 1980 and his mother bought him and his brother an Apple II computer using some of the insurance money, starting Wu's fascination with computers.\n\nWu attended McGill University, where he initially studied biochemistry and later switched his major to biophysics. He graduated from McGill with a Bachelor of Science degree in 1995 and received his law degree from Harvard Law School in 1998. At Harvard, he studied under copyright scholar Lawrence Lessig.\n\nWu worked with the U.S. Department of Justice, Office of Legal Counsel, after graduating from law school, and before starting a clerkship with Richard Posner on the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals in 1998-1999. He also clerked for Stephen Breyer, U.S. Supreme Court in 1999-2000. Following his clerkships, Wu moved to the San Francisco Bay Area, worked at Riverstone Networks, Inc. (2000–02) and then entered academia at the University of Virginia School of Law.\n\nWu was Associate Professor of Law at the University of Virginia from 2002 to 2004, Visiting Professor at Columbia Law School in 2004, Visiting Professor at Chicago Law School in 2005, and Visiting Professor at Stanford Law School in 2005. In 2006, he became a full professor at Columbia Law School and started Project Posner, a free database of all of Richard Posner's legal opinions. Wu called Posner \"probably America's greatest living jurist.\"\n\nWu is credited with popularizing the concept of network neutrality in his 2003 paper \"Network Neutrality, Broadband Discrimination\". The paper considered network neutrality in terms of neutrality between applications, as well as neutrality between data and Quality of Service-sensitive traffic, and proposed some legislation to potentially deal with these issues.\n\nIn 2006, Wu wrote \"The World Trade Law of Internet Filtering\", which analyzed the possibility of the World Trade Organization's treating censorship as a barrier to trade. In June 2007, when Google Inc. lobbied the United States Trade Representative to pursue a complaint against China's censorship at the WTO, Wu's paper was cited as a \"likely source\" for this idea. In 2006, Wu was also invited by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to help draft the first network neutrality rules attached to the AT&T and BellSouth merger.\n\nIn 2007, Wu published a paper proposing a \"Wireless Carterfone\" rule for mobile phone networks; the rule was adopted on July 31, 2007 by the Federal Communications Commission for the United States 2008 wireless spectrum auction, with FCC Commissioner Michael Copps stating: \"I find it extremely heartening to see that an academic paper—in this case by Professor Timothy Wu of Columbia Law School—can have such an immediate and forceful influence on policy.\" In November 2007 BusinessWeek credited Wu with providing \"the intellectual framework that inspired Google's mobile phone strategy.\"\n\nWith his Columbia Law School colleagues Professors Scott Hemphill and Clarisa Long, Wu co-directs the Columbia Law School Program on Law and Technology, founded in 2007. In August 2007, in collaboration with the University of Colorado School of Law's Silicon Flatirons Program, the Columbia Law School Program on Law and Technology launched a Beta version of AltLaw, which he produced.\n\nWu has appeared on the television programs \"The Colbert Report\" and \"Charlie Rose\".\n\nWu's 2010 book \"The Master Switch: The Rise and Fall of Information Empires\" described a long \"cycle\" whereby open information systems become consolidated and closed over time, reopening only after disruptive innovation. The book shows this cycle develop with the rise of the Bell AT&T telephone monopoly, the founding of the Hollywood entertainment industry, broadcast and cable TV industries, and finally with the internet industry. He looks at the example of Apple Inc., which began as a company dedicated to openness that evolved into a more closed system under the leadership of Steve Jobs, demonstrating that the internet industry will follow the historical cycle of the rise of Information empires (though Wu discuss Google as an important counterpoint). The book was named one of the best books of 2010 by \"The New Yorker\" magazine, \"Fortune\" magazine, Amazon.com, \"The Washington Post\", \"Publishers Weekly\", and others.\n\nWu ran for the Democratic nomination for Lieutenant Governor of New York in 2014, campaigning alongside gubernatorial candidate Zephyr Teachout. Wu and Teachout ran against Andrew Cuomo, the incumbent governor, and Kathy Hochul, an upstate Democrat and former Representative in the House. Teachout and Wu ran to the left of Cuomo and Hochul. Hochul won the race for Lieutenant Governor; Wu took 40% of the popular vote.\n\nIn a \"Washington Post\" interview discussing his candidacy, Wu described his approach to the campaign as one positioned against the concentration of private power: \"A hundred years ago, antitrust and merger enforcement was front page news. And we live in another era of enormous private concentration. And for some reason we call all these 'wonky issues.' They're not, really. They affect people more than half a dozen other issues. Day to day, people's lives are affected by concentration and infrastructure... You can expect a progressive-style, trust-busting kind of campaign out of me. And I fully intend to bridge that gap between the kind of typical issues in electoral politics and questions involving private power.\"\n\n\"The New York Times\" editorial board endorsed Wu for lieutenant governor in the Democratic Party primary, although they offered no endorsement for the office of governor.\n\nIn September 2015, \"The New York Times\" reported Wu's appointment to the Office of New York State Attorney General Eric Schneiderman. Wu works on issues involving technology, including protecting consumers and ensuring fair competition among companies that do business online.\n\nWu is married to Kate Judge, also a Columbia Law professor. They have two daughters.\n\nBooks:\n\nArticles:\n\nFeatures:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3844402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3844402", "title": "Tyke (elephant)", "text": "Tyke (elephant)\n\nTyke (1974 – August 20, 1994) was an African bush elephant from Mozambique who performed with Circus International of Honolulu, Hawaii. On August 20, 1994, during a performance at the Neal Blaisdell Center, she killed her trainer, Allen Campbell, and seriously injured her groomer, Dallas Beckwith. Tyke then bolted from the arena and ran through the streets of the Kakaako central business district for more than thirty minutes. Unable to calm the elephant, local police eventually opened fire on the animal, which eventually collapsed from the wounds and died. While the majority of the attack in the arena was recorded on consumer videotape by several spectators, additional professional video footage captured the attack on local publicist Steve Hirano and the shooting of Tyke herself (both of which took place outside of the building).\n\nAccording to Tyrone Taylor, Tyke's responsible trainer at the time (interviewed in documentary film), Tyke had been involved in three incidents prior to the attack of August 1994.\n\nOn April 21, 1993, Tyke escaped through the front doors of the Altoona, Pennsylvania Jaffa Shrine Center during a performance, remaining untethered for an hour. The rampage caused more than $14,000 in damage. An affidavit obtained from a circus worker by the USDA the following day stated that Tyke had also attacked a tiger trainer, while the circus was in Altoona.\n\nOn July 23, 1993, Tyke \"ran amok at the North Dakota State Fair in Minot, North Dakota, trampling and injuring a handler and frightening the crowd as [she] ran uncontrolled for 25 minutes\". \n\nAccording to USDA and Canadian law enforcement documents, while a Hawthorn elephant named Tyke (possibly the same Tyke involved in the four aforementioned incidents), was performing with Tarzan Zerbini Circus, \"The elephant handler was observed beating the single-tusk African elephant in public to the point [where] the elephant was screaming and bending down on three legs to avoid being hit. Even when the handler walked by the elephant after this, the elephant screamed and veered away, demonstrating fear from his presence.\"\n\nOn August 20, 1994, during a performance at Circus International in Honolulu, Hawaii, Tyke trampled and critically injured her groomer, Dallas Beckwith, throwing him around numerous times in the process, before killing her trainer, Allen Campbell, who was knocked to the ground, dragged and crushed to death under Tyke's massive trunk after he attempted to save Beckwith from being trampled to death during the attack. She then charged out of the arena and onto the streets outside. She additionally attacked and nearly crushed publicist Steve Hirano, who tried to stop her from escaping from the circus' parking lot. A nearby police officer seeing the attack fired multiple shots in the direction of the elephant, distracting her and causing her to flee away from Hirano. After a half-hour of chasing Tyke down, local police officers fired more than 86 shots at the elephant. Tyke finally collapsed from the numerous wounds and died.\n\nFollowing the Hawaii accident of August 20, 1994, Tyke became symbolic of circus tragedies and a symbol for animal rights. In the aftermath, lawsuits were filed against the City of Honolulu, the State of Hawaii, the circus, and Tyke's owner, John Cuneo, Jr. and his Hawthorn Corp. Honolulu lawyer William Fenton Sink sued Cuneo on behalf of numerous plaintiffs, including young children, who suffered psychological injuries after witnessing Tyke's killing. While the lawsuits were settled out of court, the details of the monetary decision was kept sealed from publication. In honor of Sink's work in the Tyke case, Animal Rights Hawaii renamed its \"Order of the Innocent Award\", The William Fenton Sink Award for Defense of Animals.\n\nAllen Campbell's autopsy revealed that he died from severe internal injuries, including major skull and chest fractures. It was also determined Campbell had cocaine and alcohol in his system at the time of his death. Officials at the Denver Zoo confirmed that there were complaints of animal abuse filed against Campbell during the late 1980s, when he operated an elephant and camel ride concession in the city.\n\nThe Tyke incident inspired legislation on local levels in Hawaii and abroad, while California Congressman Sam Farr introduced legislation (HR2323) into the House of Representatives in 1999 and again in 2012.\n\nExperimental hardcore punk/powerviolence band Man Is the Bastard wrote the song \"Tyke\", about the elephant's escape and rebellion. The song was included on their 1995 album \"Thoughtless...\".\n\nChristian thrash metal band Tourniquet, known for its stance against animal abuse, wrote the song \"86 Bullets\" about Tyke for their 2012 album \"Antiseptic Bloodbath\".\n\nAuthor K.A. Monroe was inspired by the Tyke incident and published a popular independent children's book \"Tyke and the Elephant Angel\".\n\nTyke is also seen on The History Channel show \"Shockwave\", \"World's Most Amazing Videos,\" \"Banned from Television\" and \"Maximum Exposure\".\n\nThe Hawaii Five-O remake also mentions the Honolulu attack in Season 6, Episode 20 \"Ka Haunaele (Rampage)\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1155020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1155020", "title": "War Crimes Act of 1996", "text": "War Crimes Act of 1996\n\nThe War Crimes Act of 1996 is a law that defines a war crime to include a \"grave breach of the Geneva Conventions\", specifically noting that \"grave breach\" should have the meaning defined in any convention (related to the laws of war) to which the United States is a party. The definition of \"grave breach\" in some of the Geneva Conventions have text that extend additional protections, but all the Conventions share the following text in common: \"... committed against persons or property protected by the Convention: willful killing, torture or inhuman treatment, including biological experiments, willfully causing great suffering or serious injury to body or health.\"\n\nThe law applies if either the victim or the perpetrator is a national of the United States or a member of the U.S. Armed Forces. The penalty may be life imprisonment or death. The death penalty is only invoked if the conduct resulted in the death of one or more victims.\n\nThe act was passed with overwhelming majorities by the United States Congress and signed into law by President Bill Clinton.\n\nThe law criminalized breaches of the Geneva Conventions so that the United States could prosecute war criminals, specifically North Vietnamese soldiers who tortured U.S. military personnel during the Vietnam War. The Department of Defense \"fully support[ed] the purposes of the bill,\" recommending that it be expanded to include a longer list of war crimes. Because the United States generally followed the Conventions, the military recommended making breaches by U.S. military personnel war crimes as well \"because doing so set a high standard for others to follow.\" The bill passed by unanimous consent in the Senate and by a voice vote in the House, showing that it was entirely uncontroversial at the time.\n\nTen years later, the United States Supreme Court ruled in \"Hamdan v. Rumsfeld\" that Common Article 3 of the Geneva Conventions applied to the War on Terrorism, with the unstated implication that any interrogation technique that violated Common Article 3 constituted war crimes. The possibility that American officials and military personnel could be prosecuted for war crimes for committing the \"outrages upon personal dignity, in particular humiliating and degrading treatment\" prohibited by the Conventions led to a series of proposals to make such actions legal in certain circumstances, which resulted in the Military Commissions Act of 2006.\n\nWhite House officials were concerned that they and other U.S. officials could be prosecuted under the War Crimes Act for the U.S. treatment of detainees after the September 11 attacks for violations of the Geneva Conventions. In a January 2002 memorandum to the president, then-White House Counsel Alberto Gonzales authored a controversial memo that explored whether Common Article 3 of the Geneva Conventions applied to Al Qaeda and Taliban combatants captured during the war in Afghanistan and held in detention facilities around the world, including Camp X-Ray in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. The memo made several arguments both for and against providing Common Article 3's protections to Al Qaeda and Taliban combatants. He concluded that Common Article 3 was outdated and ill-suited for dealing with captured Al Qaeda and Taliban combatants. He described as \"quaint\" the provisions that require providing captured Al Qaeda and Taliban combatants \"commissary privileges, scrip, athletic uniforms, and scientific instruments\". He also argued that existing military regulations and instructions from the President were more than adequate to ensure that the principles of the Geneva Conventions would be applied. He also argued that undefined language in the Geneva Conventions, such as \"outrages upon personal dignity\" and \"inhuman treatment\", could make officials and military leaders subject to the War Crimes Act of 1996 if mistreatment was discovered.\n\nThe adoption of the Military Commissions Act of 2006, defined in Section 6 of the act grave abuses of Common Article 3 to only include torture, cruel or inhumane treatment, murder, mutilation or maiming, intentionally causing serious bodily harm, rape, sexual assault or abuse, and the taking of hostages, thereby limiting the scope of the original law.\n\n\n"}
