{"id": "226397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226397", "title": "1623 in literature", "text": "1623 in literature\n\nThis article presents lists of the literary events and publications in 1623.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "225731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225731", "title": "1756 in literature", "text": "1756 in literature\n\nThis article presents lists of the literary events and publications in 1756.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "196719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=196719", "title": "1894 in film", "text": "1894 in film\n\nThe following is an overview of the events of 1894 in film, including a list of films released and notable births.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41376649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41376649", "title": "Adelaide Anne Procter", "text": "Adelaide Anne Procter\n\nAdelaide Anne Procter (30 October 1825 – 2 February 1864) was an English poet and philanthropist. She worked prominently on behalf of unemployed women and the homeless, and was actively involved with feminist groups and journals. Procter never married. She became unhealthy, possibly due to her charity work, and died of tuberculosis at the age of 38.\n\nProcter's literary career began when she was a teenager; her poems were primarily published in Charles Dickens's periodicals \"Household Words\" and \"All the Year Round\" and later published in book form. Her charity work and her conversion to Roman Catholicism appear to have strongly influenced her poetry, which deals most commonly with such subjects as homelessness, poverty, and fallen women.\n\nProcter was the favourite poet of Queen Victoria. Her poetry went through numerous editions in the 19th century; Coventry Patmore called her the most popular poet of the day, after Alfred, Lord Tennyson. Her poems were set to music and made into hymns, and were published in the United States and Germany as well as in England. Nonetheless, by the early 20th century her reputation had diminished, and few modern critics have given her work attention. Those who have, however, argue that Procter's work is significant, in part for what it reveals about how Victorian women expressed otherwise repressed feelings.\n\nAdelaide Anne Procter was born at 25 Bedford Square in the Bloomsbury district of London, on 30 October 1825 to the poet Bryan Waller Procter and his wife Anne (\"née\" Skepper). The family had strong literary ties: novelist Elizabeth Gaskell enjoyed her visits to the Procter household, and Procter's father was friends with poet Leigh Hunt, essayist Charles Lamb, and novelist Charles Dickens, as well as being acquainted with poet William Wordsworth and critic William Hazlitt. Family friend Bessie Rayner Belloc wrote in 1895 that \"everybody of any literary pretension whatever seemed to flow in and out of the house. The Kembles, the Macreadys, the Rossettis, the Dickens , the Thackerays, never seemed to be exactly visitors, but to belong to the place.\" Author and actress Fanny Kemble wrote that young Procter \"looks like a poet's child, and a poet ... [with] a preter-naturally thoughtful, mournful expression for such a little child\".\n\nDickens spoke highly of Procter's quick intelligence. By his account, the young Procter mastered without difficulty the subjects to which she turned her attention:\n\nWhen she was quite a young child, she learnt with facility several of the problems of Euclid. As she grew older, she acquired the French, Italian, and German languages ... piano-forte ... [and] drawing. But, as soon as she had completely vanquished the difficulties of any one branch of study, it was her way to lose interest in it, and pass to another.\n\nA voracious reader, Procter was largely self-taught, though she studied at Queen's College in Harley Street in 1850. The college had been founded in 1848 by Frederick Maurice, a Christian Socialist; the faculty included novelist Charles Kingsley, composer John Hullah, and writer Henry Morley.\nProcter showed a love of poetry from an early age, carrying with her while still a young child a \"tiny album ... into which her favourite passages were copied for her by her mother's hand before she herself could write ... as another little girl might have carried a doll\". Procter published her first poem while still a teenager; the poem, \"Ministering Angels\", appeared in \"Heath's Book of Beauty\" in 1843. In 1853 she submitted work to Dickens's \"Household Words\" under the name \"Mary Berwick\", wishing that her work be judged on its own merits rather than in relation to Dickens's friendship with her father; Dickens did not learn \"Berwick's\" identity till the following year. The poem's publication began Procter's long association with Dickens's periodicals; in all, Procter published 73 poems in \"Household Words\" and 7 poems in \"All the Year Round\", most of which were collected into her first two volumes of poetry, both entitled \"Legends and Lyrics\". She was also published in \"Good Words\" and \"Cornhill.\" As well as writing poetry, Procter was the editor of the journal \"Victoria Regia\", which became the showpiece of the Victoria Press, \"an explicitly feminist publishing venture\".\n\nIn 1851, Procter converted to Roman Catholicism. Following her conversion, Procter became extremely active in several charitable and feminist causes. She became a member of the Langham Place Group, which set out to improve conditions for women, and was friends with feminists Bessie Rayner Parkes (later Bessie Rayner Belloc) and Barbara Leigh Smith, later Barbara Bodichon. Procter helped found the \"English Woman's Journal\" in 1858 and, in 1859, the Society for the Promotion of the Employment of Women, both of which focused on expanding women's economic and employment opportunities. Though on paper Procter was merely one member among many, fellow-member Jessie Boucherett considered her to be the \"animating spirit\" of the Society. Her third volume of poetry, \"A Chaplet of Verses\" (1861), was published for the benefit of a Catholic Night Refuge for Women and Children that had been founded in 1860 at Providence Row in East London.\n\nProcter became engaged in 1858, according to a letter that her friend William Makepeace Thackeray wrote to his daughters that year. The identity of Procter's fiancé remains unknown, and the proposed marriage never took place. According to her German biographer Ferdinand Janku, the engagement seems to have lasted several years before being broken off by Procter's fiancé. Critic Gill Gregory suggests that Procter may have been a lesbian and in love with Matilda Hays, a fellow member of the Society for the Promotion of the Employment of Women; other critics have called Procter's relationship with Hays \"emotionally intense.\" Procter's first volume of poetry, \"Legends and Lyrics\" (1858) was dedicated to Hays and that same year Procter wrote a poem titled \"To M.M.H.\" in which Procter \"expresses love for Hays ... [Hays was a] novelist and translator of George Sand and a controversial figure ... [who] dressed in men's clothes and had lived with the sculptor Harriet Hosmer in Rome earlier in the 1850s.\" While several men showed interest in her, Procter never married.\n\nProcter fell ill in 1862; Dickens and others have suggested that her illness was due to her extensive charity work, which \"appears to have unduly taxed her strength\". An attempt to improve her health by taking a cure at Malvern failed. On 3 February 1864, Procter died of tuberculosis, having been bed-ridden for almost a year. Her death was described in the press as a \"national calamity\". Procter was buried in Kensal Green Cemetery.\n\nProcter's poetry was strongly influenced by her religious beliefs and charity work; homelessness, poverty, and fallen women are frequent themes. Procter's prefaces to her volumes of poetry stress the misery of the conditions under which the poor lived, as do poems such as \"The Homeless Poor\":\n\nIn that very street, at that same hour,\nIn the bitter air and drifting sleet,\nCrouching in a doorway was a mother,\nWith her children shuddering at her feet.\n\nShe was silent – who would hear her pleading?\nMen and beasts were housed – but she must stay\nHouseless in the great and pitiless city,\nTill the dawning of the winter day. (51–58)\n\nProcter's Catholicism also influenced her choice of images and symbols; Procter often uses references to the Virgin Mary, for example, to \"introduce secular and Protestant readers to the possibility that a heavenly order critiques Victorian gender ideology's power structure.\"\n\nProcter wrote several poems about war (the majority of poems published on this topic in \"Household Words\" were by Procter), although she rarely deals directly with the topic, preferring to leave war \"in the background, something to be inferred rather than stated.\" Generally, these poems portray conflict as something \"that might unite a nation that had been divided by class distinctions.\"\n\nAccording to critic Gill Gregory, Procter \"does not overtly ponder the vexed question of the poet, particularly the woman poet and her accession to fame\", unlike many other women poets of the time, such as Felicia Hemans and Letitia Elizabeth Landon. Procter is instead primarily concerned with the working classes, particularly working-class women, and with \"emotions of women antagonists which have not fully found expression\". Procter's work often embodies a Victorian aesthetic of sentimentality, but, according to Francis O'Gorman, does so with \"peculiar strength\"; Procter employs emotional affect without simplification, holding \"emotional energy [in tension] ... against complications and nuances.\" Procter's language is simple; she expressed to a friend a \"morbid terror of being misunderstood and misinterpreted\", and her poetry is marked by \"simplicity, directness, and clarity of expression\".\n\nProcter was \"fabulously popular\" in the mid-19th century; she was Queen Victoria's favourite poet and Coventry Patmore stated that the demand for her work was greater than that for any other poet, excepting Alfred, Lord Tennyson. Readers valued Procter's poems for their plainness of expression, although they were considered \"not so very original in thought; [their merit is that] they are indeed the utterances 'of a believing heart', pouring out its fulness.\" Procter herself expressed little ambition about her work: her friend Bessie Raynor Belloc thought that Procter was pained that her reputation as a poet had outstripped her father's, and quoted Procter as saying that \"Papa is a poet. I only write verses.\"\n\nProcter's popularity continued after her death; the first volume of \"Legends and Lyrics\" went through 19 editions by 1881, and the second through 14 editions by the same year. Many of her poems were made into hymns or otherwise set to music. Among these was \"The Lost Chord\", which Arthur Sullivan set to music in 1877; this song was the most commercially successful of the 1870s and 1880s in both Britain and the United States. Her work was also published in the United States and translated into German. By 1938, Procter's reputation had fallen so far that a textbook could mention her poems only to pronounce them \"stupid, trivial and not worthy of the subject\". Critics such as Cheri Larsen Hoeckley, Kathleen Hickok, and Natalie Joy Woodall argue that the demise of Procter's reputation is due at least in part to the way Charles Dickens characterized her as a \"model middle-class domestic angel\" and a \"fragile and modest saint\" rather than as an \"active feminist and strong poet.\" Emma Mason argues that although Dickens's portrayal of Procter \"extinguished modern interest\" in her, it also \"has helped rescue Procter from the kind of endless conjecture about her private life that has confused studies of women like Letitia Landon.\"\n\nModern critics have given Procter's work little attention. The few critics who have examined Procter's poetry generally find it important for the way that she overtly expresses conventional sentiments while covertly undermining them. According to Isobel Armstrong, Procter's poetry, like that of many 19th-century women poets, employs conventional ideas and modes of expression without necessarily espousing them in entirety. Francis O'Gorman cites \"A Legend of Provence\" as an example of a poem with this kind of \"double relationship with the structures of gender politics it seems to affirm.\" Other critics since Armstrong agree that Procter's poetry, while ladylike on the surface, shows signs of repressed emotions and desires. Kirstie Blair states that the suppression of emotion in Procter's work makes the narrative poems all the more powerful, and Gill Gregory argues that Procter's poetry often explores female sexuality in an unconventional way, while as often voicing anxiety about sexual desires. Elizabeth Gray criticizes the fact that the few discussions of Procter's poetry that do exist focus primarily on gender, arguing that the \"range and formal inventiveness of this illuminatingly representative Victorian poet have remained largely unexplored.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "389398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=389398", "title": "Alexandre Cabanel", "text": "Alexandre Cabanel\n\nAlexandre Cabanel (; 28 September 1823, Montpellier – 23 January 1889) was a French painter. He painted historical, classical and religious subjects in the academic style. He was also well known as a portrait painter. According to \"Diccionario Enciclopedico Salvat\", Cabanel is the best representative of the L'art pompier and Napoleon III's preferred painter.\n\nCabanel entered the École des Beaux-Arts in Paris at the age of seventeen,\nand studied with François-Édouard Picot. He exhibited at the Paris Salon for the first time in 1844, and won the Prix de Rome scholarship in 1845 at the age of 22. Cabanel was elected a member of the Institute in 1863. He was appointed professor at the École des Beaux-Arts in 1864 and taught there until his death.\n\nHe was closely connected to the Paris Salon: \"He was elected regularly to the Salon jury and his pupils could be counted by the hundred at the Salons. Through them, Cabanel did more than any other artist of his generation to form the character of \"belle époque\" French painting\". His refusal together with William-Adolphe Bouguereau to allow the impressionist painter Édouard Manet and many other painters to exhibit their work in the Salon of 1863 led to the establishment of the Salon des Refusés by the French government. Cabanel won the Grande Médaille d'Honneur at the Salons of 1865, 1867, and 1878.\n\nA successful academic painter, his 1863 painting \"The Birth of Venus\" is one of the best known examples of 19th-century academic painting. The picture was bought by the emperor Napoleon III; there is also a smaller replica (painted in 1875 for a banker, John Wolf) at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City. It was given to them by Wolf in 1893.\n\nHis pupils included:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1049954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1049954", "title": "Alice Guy-Blaché", "text": "Alice Guy-Blaché\n\nAlice Guy-Blaché (July 1, 1873 – March 24, 1968) was a pioneer filmmaker, active from the late 19th century, and one of the first to make a narrative fiction film. From 1896 to 1906 she was probably the only female filmmaker in the world. She experimented with Gaumont's Chronophone sound syncing system, color tinting, interracial casting, and special effects. She was a founder and artistic director of the Solax Studios in Flushing, New York, in 1908. In 1912 Solax invested $100,000 for a new studio in Fort Lee, New Jersey, the center of American filmmaking prior to the establishment of Hollywood. That same year she made the film \"A Fool and His Money\", with a cast of only African-American actors. The film is now at the National Center for Film and Video Preservation at the American Film Institute.\n\nIn 1865, Alice's father, Emile Guy, an owner of a bookstore and publishing company in Santiago and Valparaíso, Chile, married Marie Clotilde Franceline Aubert. The couple returned to Santiago after the wedding in Paris. In early 1873, Marie and Emile lived in Santiago, with Alice's four siblings.\n\nThere was a devastating smallpox epidemic in Chile in 1872 and 1873. Emile and Marie Guy brought all four of their children back to Paris where Alice was born. In her autobiography, Alice refers to her mother's attempt to make sure \"one of her children should be French\". Her father returned to Chile soon after her birth, and her mother followed a few months later. Alice was entrusted to her grandmother in Carouge, Switzerland. At the age of three or four, Alice's mother returned from Chile and took Alice with her back to South America.\n\nAt the age of six, Alice was taken back to France by her father to attend school at the Convent of the Sacred Heart (also known as the Faithful Companions of Jesus) on the French side of the Swiss border in Veyrier, France (arrondissement of Viry). (Her sisters were already there.) Alice and her sister, Rose, were moved to a convent in Ferney a few years later and then brought back to Paris. When Alice was 17, her father died on January 5, 1891 of unknown causes. \n\nFollowing her father's death, Alice trained as a typist and stenographer, a new field at the time, to support herself and her widowed mother. She landed her first stenography-typist job at a varnish factory. In March 1894, she began working at the 'Comptoir général de la photographie' owned by Felix-Max Richard. Léon Gaumont would later take over and head the company.\n\nIn 1894, Alice Guy was hired by Felix-Max Richard to work for a camera manufacturing and photography supply company as a secretary. The company changed hands in 1895 due to a court decision against Felix-Max Richard who sold the company to four men: Gustave Eiffel, Joseph Vallot, Alfred Besnier, and Leon Gaumont. Gustave Eiffel was president of the company, and Leon Gaumont, thirty years Eiffel's junior, was the manager. The company was named after Gaumont because Eiffel was the subject of a national scandal regarding the Panama Canal. L. Gaumont et Cie became a major force in the fledgling motion-picture industry in France. Alice continued to work at Gaumont et Cie, a decision that led to a pioneering career in filmmaking that spanned more than 25 years and involved her directing, producing, writing and/or overseeing more than 700 films.\n\nAlthough she initially began working for Léon Gaumont as his secretary, she began to become familiar with myriad clients, relevant marketing strategies, and the company's stock of cameras. She also met a handful of pioneering film engineers such as Georges Demenÿ and Auguste and Louis Lumière.\n\nGuy and Gaumont attended the \"surprise\" Lumière event on March 22, 1895. It was the first demonstration of film projection, an obstacle that Gaumont and the Lumières (as well as Edison) were racing to solve. They screened one of their early films \"Workers Leaving the Lumière Factory\", and it only consisted of a simple scene of workmen leaving the Lumière plant in Lyon. Bored with the idea of captured film only being used for the scientific and/or promotional purpose of selling cameras in the form of \"demonstration films\", she was confident that she could incorporate fictional story-telling elements into film. She asked Gaumont for permission to make her own film, and he granted it.\n\nAlice Guy's first film, and arguably the world's first narrative film, was called \"La Fée aux Choux\" (\"The Fairy of the Cabbages\") or \"The Birth of Infants\", in 1896. The scene Alice described does not match either the 1900 version or the 1902 version that have been discovered. Alice said she filmed the first version in 1896. A July 30, 1896 newspaper describes a \"chaste fiction of children born under the cabbages in a wonderfully framed chromo landscape\" and provides other details that confirm Alice's description of her first film..\n\nFrom 1896 to 1906, Guy was Gaumont's head of production and is generally considered to be the first filmmaker to systematically develop narrative filmmaking. She was probably the only female director from 1896 to 1906. Her earlier films share many characteristics and themes with her contemporary competitors, such as the Lumières and Méliès. She explored dance and travel films, often combining the two, such as \"Le Bolero\" performed by Miss Saharet (1905) and \"Tango\" (1905). Many of Guy's early dance films were popular in music-hall attractions such as the serpentine dance films – also a staple of the Lumières and Thomas Edison film catalogs. \n\nIn 1906, she made \"The Life of Christ\", a big budget production for the time, which included 300 extras. In addition to this, she was one of the pioneers in the use of audio recordings in conjunction with the images on screen in Gaumont's \"Chronophone\" system, which used a vertical-cut disc synchronized to the film. She employed some of the first special effects, including using double exposure, masking techniques, and running a film backwards.\n\nIn 1907, Alice Guy married Herbert Blaché who was soon appointed the production manager for Gaumont's operations in the United States. After working with her husband for Gaumont in the U.S., the two struck out on their own in 1910, partnering with George A. Magie in the formation of The Solax Company, the largest pre-Hollywood studio in America. \n\nWith production facilities for their new company in Flushing, Queens, New York City, her husband served as production manager as well as cinematographer, and Alice Guy-Blaché worked as the artistic director and directed many of its releases. Within two years, they had become so successful that they invested more than $100,000 into new and technologically advanced production facilities in Fort Lee, New Jersey. Many early film studios were based in Fort Lee at the beginning of the 20th century. It was mentioned in publications of the era that Guy-Blaché placed a large sign in her studio that read: 'Be Natural'.\n\nAlice Guy and her husband divorced several years later, and with the rise of the more hospitable and cost-effective climate in Hollywood, their film partnership also ended.\n\nAlice Guy-Blaché's marriage meant that she had to resign from her position working with Gaumont. The couple was sent by the Gaumont company to Cleveland to facilitate the franchise of Gaumont equipment. Early in 1908, the couple went to New York where Guy gave birth to her daughter, Simone in September 1908. Two years later, Guy became the first woman to run her own studio when she created Solax in Gaumont's Flushing studio. In 1912, when Guy was pregnant with her second child, she built a studio in Fort Lee, New Jersey, and continued to complete one to three films a week. To focus on writing and directing, Guy made her husband the president of Solax in 1913. \n\nShortly after taking the position, Herbert Blaché started a film company called Blaché Features, Inc. For the next few years, the couple maintained a personal and business partnership, working together on many projects. In 1918, Herbert Blaché left his wife and children to pursue a career in Hollywood. Alice Guy-Blaché almost died from the Spanish flu pandemic in October 1918. Following her illness, she joined Herbert in Hollywood in 1919.\nAlice Guy-Blaché directed her last film in 1919. In 1921, she was forced to auction her film studio and other possessions in bankruptcy. Alice and Herbert were officially divorced in 1922. She returned to France in 1922 and never made a film again.\n\nAlice Guy-Blaché never remarried, and in 1964 she returned to the United States to stay with one of her daughters. On March 24, 1968, at the age of 94, Guy died in a nursing home in New Jersey. She is interred at Maryrest Cemetery.\n\nIn the late 1940s, Guy-Blaché wrote an autobiography, and in 1976 it was published in French. It was translated into English in 1986 with the help of her daughter Simone and daughter-in-law Roberta Blaché and film writer Anthony Slide.\n\nGuy-Blaché was tremendously concerned with her unexplained absence from the historical record of the film industry. She was in constant communication with colleagues and film historians correcting previously made and supposedly factual statements about her life. She crafted lengthy lists of her films as she remembered them, with the hope of being able to assume creative ownership and get legitimate credit for them.\n\nGuy-Blaché is considered by some to have been the first female filmmaker, and from 1896 to 1920, she directed over 1,000 films, some 350 of which survive, and 22 of which are feature-length films. \n\nGuy was one of the first women (along with Lois Weber) to manage and own her own studio: The Solax Company. Few of her films survive in an easily viewable format.\n\nIn 1953, Guy was awarded the Légion d'honneur, the highest non-military award France offers. On March 16, 1957, she was honored in a Cinématheque Française ceremony that went unnoticed by the press.\n\nIn 2002, Circle X Theatre in Los Angeles produced \"Laura Comstock’s Bag-punching Dog\", a musical about the invention of cinema, and Alice Guy was a lead character. The musical was written by Jillian Armenante, Alice Dodd, and Chris Jeffries. \n\nIn 2004, the only existing historic marker dedicated to Alice Guy-Blaché in the United States was unveiled on the location of her Solax Studio in Fort Lee, New Jersey by the Fort Lee Film Commission. \n\nIn 2010 the Academy Film Archive preserved Alice Guy-Blaché's short film \"The Girl in the Armchair.\"\n\nIn 2011, an off Broadway production of \"Flight\" premiered at the Connelly Theatre, featuring a fictionalized portrayal of Alice Guy-Blaché as a 1913 documentary filmmaker. Also in 2011, the Fort Lee Film Commission successfully lobbied the Directors Guild of America to accept Alice Guy-Blaché as a member.\n\nIn 2012, for the centennial of the founding and building of Guy-Blaché's Solax Studio in Fort Lee, the Fort Lee Film Commission raised funds to replace her grave marker in Maryrest Cemetery in Mahwah, New Jersey. The new marker includes the Solax studio logo and indicates her role as a cinema pioneer.\n\nShe was the subject of a National Film Board of Canada documentary \"The Lost Garden: The Life and Cinema of Alice Guy-Blaché\" by director Marquise Lepage, which received Quebec's Gemeaux Award for Best Documentary. In 2002, film scholar Alison McMahan published \"Alice Guy Blaché: Lost Visionary of the Cinema\".\n\nIn 2013, Guy-Blaché was inducted into the New Jersey Hall of Fame.\n\nThe Golden Door Film Festival gives an award named in her honor.\n\nIn 2017, the documentary film \"Be Natural\", by Pamela B. Green, dealt with Guy-Blaché's life.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6721754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6721754", "title": "Ancient Maya art", "text": "Ancient Maya art\n\nAncient Maya art refers to the material arts of the Maya civilization, an eastern and south-eastern Mesoamerican culture that took shape in the course of the later Preclassic Period (500 BCE to 200 CE). Its greatest artistic flowering occurred during the seven centuries of the (c. 200 to 900 CE). Ancient Maya art then went through an extended Post-Classic phase before the upheavals of the sixteenth century destroyed courtly culture and put an end to the Mayan artistic tradition. Many regional styles existed, not always coinciding with the changing boundaries of Maya polities. Olmecs, Teotihuacan and Toltecs have all influenced Maya art. Traditional art forms have mainly survived in weaving and the design of peasant houses.\n\nFollowing the nineteenth and early-twentieth century publications on Maya art and archaeology by Stephens, Catherwood, Maudslay, Maler and Charnay that for the first time made available reliable drawings and photographs of major Classic Maya monuments, the 1913 publication of Herbert Spinden´s 'A Study of Maya Art' - now over a century ago - laid the foundation for all later developments of Maya art history (including iconography). The book gives an analytical treatment of themes and motifs, particularly the ubiquitous serpent and dragon motifs, and a review of the ´material arts´, such as the composition of temple facades, roof combs and mask panels. Spinden's chronological treatment of Maya art was later (1950) refined by the motif analysis of the architect and specialist in archaeological drawing, Tatiana Proskouriakoff, in her book 'A Study of Classic Maya Sculpture'. Kubler's 1969 inventory of Maya iconography, containing a site-by-site treatment of 'commemorative' images and a topical treatment of ritual and mythical images (such as the 'triadic sign'), concluded a period of gradual increase of knowledge that was soon to be overshadowed by new developments.\n\nStarting in the early 1970s, the historiography of the Mayan kingdoms - first of all Palenque - came to occupy the forefront. Art-historical interpretation joined the historical approach pioneered by Proskouriakoff as well as the mythological approach initiated by M.D. Coe, with a professor of art, Linda Schele, serving as a driving force. Schele's seminal interpretations of Maya art are found throughout her work, especially in \"The Blood of Kings\", written together with art historian M. Miller. Maya art history was also spurred by the enormous increase in sculptural and ceramic imagery, due to extensive archaeological excavations, as well as to organized looting on an unprecedented scale. On from 1973, M.D. Coe published a series of books offering pictures and interpretations of unknown Maya vases, with the Popol Vuh Twin myth for an explanatory model. In 1981, Robicsek and Hales added an inventory and classification of Maya vases painted in codex style, thereby revealing even more of a hitherto barely known spiritual world.\n\nAs to subsequent developments, important issues in Schele's iconographic work have been elaborated by Karl Taube. New approaches to Maya art include studies of ancient Maya ceramic workshops, the representation of bodily experience and the senses in Maya art, and of hieroglyphs considered as iconographic units. Meanwhile, the number of monographs devoted to the monumental art of specific courts is growing. A good impression of recent Mexican and North American art historical scholarship can be gathered from the exhibition catalogue 'Courtly Art of the Ancient Maya' (2004).\n\n \nThe layout of the Maya towns and cities, and more particularly of the ceremonial centers where the royal families and courtiers resided, is characterized by the rhythm of immense horizontal stucco floors of plazas often located at various levels, connected by broad and often steep stairs, and surmounted by temple pyramids. Under successive reigns, the main buildings were enlarged by adding new layers of fill and stucco coating. Irrigation channels, reservoirs, and drains made up the hydraulic infrastructure. Outside the ceremonial center (especially in the southern area sometimes resembling an acropolis) were the structures of lesser nobles, smaller temples, and individual shrines, surrounded by the wards of the commoners. Dam-like causeways (sacbeob) spread from the 'ceremonial centers' to other nuclei of habitation. Fitting in with the concept of a 'theatre state', more attention appears to have been given to aesthetics than to solidity of construction. Careful attention, however, was placed on directional orientation.\n\nAmong the various types of structures should be mentioned:\nAmong the structural ensembles are:\n\nIn the palaces and temple rooms, the 'corbelled vault' was often applied. Though not an effective means to increase interior space, as it required thick stone walls to support the high ceiling, some temples utilized repeated arches, or a corbelled vault, to construct an inner sanctuary (e.g., that of the Temple of the Cross at Palenque).\n\nThe northern Maya area (Campeche and Yucatan) shows characteristics of its own. Its Classic Puuc, Chenes, and Rio Bec architecture is characterized by the geometrical reduction of realistic decoration; the stacking of rain god snouts to build facades; the use of portals shaped like serpent mouths; and, in the Rio Bec area, the use of solid pseudo temple-pyramids. The most important Puuc site is Uxmal. Chichen Itza, dominating Yucatan from the Late Classic to well into the Post-Classic, features Classic buildings in Chenes and Puuc style as well as Post-Classic building types of Mexican derivation, such as the radial four-staircase pyramid, the colonnaded hall, and the circular temple. The latter features were inherited by the succeeding kingdom of Mayapan.\n\n \nThe main Preclassic sculptural style from the Maya area is that of Izapa, a large settlement on the Pacific coast where many stelas and (frog-shaped) altars were found showing motifs also present in Olmec art. The stelas, mostly without inscriptions, often show mythological and narrative subjects, some of which appear to relate to the Twin myth of the Popol Vuh. Nonetheless, it remains uncertain if the inhabitants of Izapa were ethnically Mayan. For the Classic Period of the Mayas, the following major classes of stone sculpture may be distinguished.\n\n\nIt is believed that carvings in wood were once extremely common, but only a few examples have survived. Most 16th-century wood carvings, considered objects of idolatry, were destroyed by the Spanish colonial authorities. The most important Classic examples consist of intricately worked lintels, mostly from the main Tikal pyramid sanctuaries, with one specimen from nearby El Zotz. The Tikal wood reliefs, each consisting of several beams, and dating to the 8th century, show a king on his seat with a protector figure looming large behind, in the form of a Teotihuacan-style 'war serpent' (Temple I lintel 2), a jaguar (Temple I lintel 3), or a human impersonator of the jaguar god of terrestrial fire (Temple IV lintel 2). Other Tikal lintels depict an obese king wearing a jaguar dress and standing in front of his seat (Temple III lintel 2); and most famously, a victorious king, dressed as an astral death god, and standing on a palanquin underneath an arching feathered serpent (Temple IV lintel 3). A rare utility object is a tiny lidded box covered with a long hieroglyphic inscription from Tortuguero. Free sculpture in wood, dating back to the 6th century, is represented by a dignified seated man possibly functioning as a mirror bearer.\n\nAt least since Late Preclassic times, modeled and painted stucco plaster covered the floors and buildings of the town centers and provided the setting for their stone sculptures. Often, large mask panels with the plastered heads of deities in high relief (particularly those of sun, rain, and earth) are found attached to the sloping retaining walls of temple platforms flanking stairs (e.g., Kohunlich). Stucco modeling and relief work can also cover the entire building, as shown by Temple 16 of Copan, in its 6th-century form (known as 'Rosalila'). Dedicated to the first king, Yax K'uk' Mo', this early temple has preserved plastered and painted facades. The stuccoed friezes, walls, piers, and roof combs of the Late Preclassic and Classic periods show varying and sometimes symbolically complicated decorative programs.\nSeveral solutions for dividing up and ordering the stuccoed surfaces of buildings were applied, serialization being one of them. The Early Classic walls of the 'Temple of the Night Sun' in El Zotz consist of a series of subtly varied deity mask panels, whereas the frieze of a Balamku palace, also from the Early Classic, originally had a series of four rulers enthroned above the open ophidian mouths of four different animals (a toad among them) associated with symbolic mountains. Conversely, friezes may be centered on a single ruler again sitting on a symbolic (maize) mountain, such as a frieze from Holmul, with two feathered serpents emanating from below the ruler's seat, and another one from Xultun, on which the ruler carries a large ceremonial bar with emerging jaguar-like figures. An Early-Classic temple frieze from Placeres, Quintana Roo, has the large mask panel of a young lord or deity in the middle, with two lateral 'Grandfather' deities extending their arms.\n\nOften, a frieze is divided into compartments. Late Preclassic friezes of El Mirador, for example, show the intervening spaces of an undulating serpent's body filled out with aquatic birds, and the sections of an aquatic band with swimming figures. Similarly, a Classic palace frieze in Acanceh is divided into panels holding different animal figures reminiscent of wayob, while a wall in Tonina has lozenge-shaped fields suggesting a scaffold and presenting continuous narrative scenes that relate to human sacrifice.\n\nPlastered temple roof combs are similar to some of the friezes above in that they usually show large representations of rulers, who may again be seated on a symbolic mountain, and also, as on Palenque's Temple of the Sun, set within a cosmological framework. Further examples of Classic stucco modeling include the piers of the Palenque Palace, embellished with a series of lords and ladies in ritual dress, and the 'baroque', Late-Classic Chenes-style stucco entrance, beset with naturalistic human figures, on the Acropolis (Str. 1) of Ek' Balam.\n\nUnique in Mesoamerica, Classic Period stucco modeling includes realistic portraiture of a quality equalling that of Roman ancestral portraits, with the lofty stucco heads of Palenque rulers and portraits of dignitaries from Tonina as outstanding examples. Some of these portrait heads were part of life-size stucco figures adorning temple crests. The portrait modeling recalls that of certain Jaina ceramic statuettes.\n\nAlthough, due to the humid climate of Central America, relatively few Mayan paintings have survived to the present day integrally, important remnants have been found in nearly all major court residences. This is especially the case in substructures, hidden under later architectural additions. Mural paintings may show more or less repetitive motifs, such as the subtly varied flower symbols on walls of House E of the Palenque Palace; scenes of daily life, as in one of the buildings surrounding the central square of Calakmul and in a palace of Chilonche; or ritual scenes involving deities, as in the Post-Classic temple murals of Yucatán's and Belize's east coast (Tancah, Tulum, Santa Rita).\n\nThey may also evince a more narrative character, usually with hieroglyphic captions present. The colourful Bonampak murals, for example, dating from 790 AD, and extending over the walls and vaults of three adjacent rooms, show spectacular scenes of nobility, battle and sacrifice, as well as a group of ritual impersonators in the midst of a file of musicians. At San Bartolo, murals dating from 100 BCE relate to the myths of the Maya maize god and the hero twin Hunahpu, and depict a double inthronization; antedating the Classic Period by several centuries, the style is already fully developed, with colours being subtle and muted as compared to those of Bonampak or Calakmul. Outside the Mayan area, in a ward of East-Central Mexican Cacaxtla, murals painted in a predominantly Classic Mayan style, with often stark colors, have been found, such as a savage battle scene extending over 20 meters; two figures of Mayan lords standing on serpents; and an irrigated maize and cacao field visited by the Maya merchant deity.\n\nWall painting also occurs on vault capstones, in tombs (e.g., Río Azul), and in caves (e.g., Naj Tunich), usually executed in black on a whitened surface, at times with the additional use of red paint. Yucatec vault capstones often show a depiction of the enthroned lightning deity (e.g., Ek' Balam).\n\nA bright turquoise blue colour - 'Maya Blue' - has survived through the centuries due to its unique chemical characteristics; this color is present in Bonampak, Cacaxtla, Jaina, El Tajín, and even in some Colonial Convents. The use of Maya Blue survived until the 16th century, when the technique was lost.\n\nThe Maya writing system consists of about 1000 distinct characters or hieroglyphs ('glyphs'), and like many ancient writing systems is a mixture of syllabic signs and logograms. This script was in use from the 3rd century BCE until shortly after the Spanish conquest in the 16th century. As of now (2017), a considerable proportion of the characters has a reading, but their meaning and configuration as a text is not always understood. The books were folded and consisted of bark paper or leather leaves with an adhesive stucco layer on which to write; they were protected by jaguar skin covers or, perhaps, wooden boards. Since every diviner probably needed a book, there must have existed large numbers of them. Today, three codices (the Dresden, Paris, and Madrid codices), all of the Post-Classic period, are still in existence; the authenticity of a fourth one (the Grolier Codex) remains doubtful. They are largely of a divinatory and priestly nature, containing almanacs, astrological tables, and ritual programs; the Paris Codex also includes katun-prophecies. Great attention was paid to a harmonious balance of texts and (partly coloured) illustrations.\n\nBesides the codical glyphs, there existed a cursive script of an often dynamic character, found in wall-paintings and on ceramics, and imitated in stone on panels from Palenque (such as the 'Tablet of the 96 glyphs'). Often, written captions are enclosed in square 'boxes' of various shapes within the representation. Wall paintings may also entirely consist of texts (Ek' Balam, Naj Tunich), or, more rarely, contain astrological computations (Xultun); sometimes, written on a white stuccoed surface, and executed with particular care and elegance, these texts are like enlargements of book pages.\nHieroglyphs are ubiquitous and were written on every available surface, including the human body. The glyphs themselves are highly detailed, and particularly the logograms are deceivingly realistic. As a matter of fact, from an art-historical point of view, they should also be viewed as art motifs, and \"vice versa\". Sculptors at Copan and Quirigua have consequently felt free to convert hieroglyphic elements and calendrical signs into animated, dramatic miniature scenes ('full figure glyphs').\n\nUnlike utility ceramics found in such large numbers among the debris of archaeological sites, most of the decorated pottery (cylinder vessels, lidded dishes, vases, bowls) once was 'social currency' among the Maya nobility, and, preserved as heirlooms, also accompanied the nobles into their graves. The aristocratic tradition of gift-giving feasts and ceremonial visits, and the emulation that inevitably went with these exchanges, goes a long way towards explaining the high level of artistry reached in Classical times.\n\nMade without a potter's wheel, decorated pottery was delicately painted, carved into relief, incised, or - chiefly during the Early Classic period - made with the Teotihuacan fresco technique of applying paint to a wet clay surface. The precious objects were manufactured in numerous workshops distributed over the Mayan kingdoms, some of the most famous being associated with the 'Chama-style', the 'Holmul-style', the so-called 'Ik-style' and, for carved pottery, the 'Chochola-style.'\nVase decoration shows great variation, including palace scenes, courtly ritual, mythology, divinatory glyphs, and even dynastical texts taken from chronicles, and plays a major role in reconstructing Classical Maya life and beliefs. Ceramic scenes and texts painted in black and red on a white underground, the equivalents of pages from the lost folding books, are referred to as being in 'codex style' (e.g., the so-called Princeton Vase). The hieroglyphical and pictural overlap with the three extant books is (at least up to now) relatively small.\n\nSculptural ceramic art includes incense burners and hand or mold-made figurines sometimes used as ocarinas. The profusely decorated, elongated Classic incense burners from the kingdom of Palenque - evolved from Early-Classic models - show the modeled face of a deity (usually the jaguar deity of terrestrial fire) or of a king. The elaborate Post-Classic, mold-made effigy incense burners especially associated with Mayapan represent standing deities (or priestly deity impersonators) often carrying offerings.\n\nFigurines, many of them mold-made, are often of an amazing liveliness and realism. Apart from deities, animal persons, rulers and dwarfs, they show many other characters as well as scenes taken from daily life. Some of these figurines may have been used in rituals. The most impressive examples stem from Jaina Island.\n\nIt is remarkable that the Maya, who had no metal tools, created many objects from a very thick and dense material, jade (jadeite), particularly all sorts of (royal) dress elements, such as belt plaques - or celts - ear spools, pendants, and also masks. Celts (i.e., flat, celt-shaped ornaments) were sometimes engraved with a stela-like representation of the king (e.g., the Early-Classic 'Leyden Plate'). The best-known example of a mask is probably the death mask of the Palenque king Pakal, covered with irregularly-shaped jade plaques and having eyes made from mother-of-pearl and obsidian; another death mask, belonging to a Palenque queen, consists of malachite plaques. Similarly, certain cylindrical vases from Tikal have an outer layer of square jade discs. Many stone carvings had jade inlays.\n\nAmong other sculpted and engraved materials are flint, shell, and bone, often found in caches and burials. The so-called 'eccentric flints' are ceremonial objects of uncertain use, in their most elaborate forms of elongated shape with usually various heads extending on one or both sides, sometimes those of the lightning deity, but more often of an anthropomorphic lightning probably representing the Tonsured Maize God. Shell was worked into disks and other decorative elements showing human, possibly ancestral heads and deities; conch trumpets were similarly decorated. Human and animal bones were decorated with incised symbols and scenes. A collection of small and modified, tubular bones from an 8th-century royal burial under Tikal Temple I contains some of the most subtle engravings known from the Maya, including several scenes with the Tonsured maize god in a canoe.\n\nTextiles from the Classic period, made of cotton, have not survived, but Maya art provides detailed information about their appearance and, to a lesser extent, their social function. They include delicate fabrics used as wrappings, curtains and canopies furnishing palaces, and garments. Among the dyeing techniques may have been ikat. Daily costume depended on social standing. Noblewomen usually wore long dresses, noblemen girdles and breechcloths, leaving legs and upper body more or less bare, unless jackets or mantles were worn. Both men and women could wear turbans. Costumes worn on ceremonial occasions and during the many festivities were highly expressive and exuberant; animal headdresses were common. The most elaborate costume was the formal apparel of the king, as depicted on the royal stelae, with numerous elements of symbolic meaning.\n\nWickerwork, only known from incidental depictions in sculptural and ceramic art, must once have been ubiquitous; the well-known \"pop\" ('mat') motif testifies to its importance.\n\nBody decorations often consisted of painted patterns on face and body, but could also be of a permanent character marking status and age differences. The latter type included artificial deformation of the skull, filing and incrustation of the teeth, and tattooing of the face.\n\nThere are a great many museums across the world with Maya artifacts in their collections. The Foundation for the Advancement of Mesoamerican Studies lists over 250 museums in its Maya Museum database, and the European Association of Mayanists lists just under 50 museums in Europe alone. In Mexico City, the Museo Nacional de Antropología contains an especially large selection of Maya artifacts. A number of regional museums in Mexico hold important collections, including the Museo de las Estelas \"Román Piña Chan\" in Campeche, the Museo Regional de Yucatán \"Palacio Cantón\" in Mérida, and the Museo Regional de Antropología \"Carlos Pellicer Camera\" in Villahermosa, Tabasco. The most important museum collections in Guatemala are those of the Museo Popol Vuh and the Museo Nacional de Arqueología y Etnología, both in Guatemala City. Notable museums with collections of Maya artifacts include the British Museum in London, the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, the Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and the University of Pennsylvania Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology. The Museum der Kulturen in Basel, Switzerland, holds a number of wooden lintels from Tikal; the Ethnologisches Museum in Berlin holds a broad selection of Maya artifacts. In Belgium, the Musées royaux d'art et d'histoire in Brussels houses an important collection. The Field Museum of Natural History in Chicago contains a notable selection of Maya ceramics, while the Cleveland Museum of Art in Ohio has one of the most extensive Maya collections in the United States. The Museo de América in Madrid hosts a large selection of artifacts from Palenque; it is also home to the Madrid Codex. Other notable European museums are the Rijksmuseum voor Volkenkunde in Leiden, Netherlands, home to the Leyden Plate, and the Rietberg Museum in Zürich, Switzerland.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11967744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11967744", "title": "Apollon Theatre (Patras)", "text": "Apollon Theatre (Patras)\n\n\"For the theatre in Harlem, see the Apollo Theatre\"\n\nThe Apollon Theatre (Greek: \"θέατρο \"Απόλλων\" \"Theatro Apollon\") is a theatre in Patras, Greece. Designed by the famous German architect Ernst Ziller, it was completed in 1872. The Apollon is located east of Georgiou I Square, one of Patras' popular squares. The theatre is a micrograph of the La Scala in Milan and is the oldest existing enclosed theatre of the same era. The Apollon Theatre has been the main stage of the Patras Municipal and Regional Theatre since 1988, and can hold up to 300 people.\n\nThe Apollon Theatre began construction on February 11, 1871, and opened on October 10, 1872. The construction was paid for by various residents of Patras. The main erection committee included Theodor Hamburger (president), Dimitrios Patrinos, K. Lappas and A. Chrysanthis.\n\nOther sponsors included the then-mayor of Patras, Georgios Roufos, Gustavos Clauss, Hamburger, Langouras, the Triantis Brothers, Panagiotis Brothers, father of Dimitrios Gounaris, Epameinondas Maximos, father of Dimitrios Maximos\n\nThe Apollon Theatre is one of only four neoclassic theatres that survive in Greece (the other three are the Malliaropouleio Theatre in Tripoli, which opened in 1910, the Apollo Theatre in Syros, opened in 1864 and the Piraeus Municipal Theatre in Piraeus, opened in 1895).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "426433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426433", "title": "Artisan", "text": "Artisan\n\nAn artisan (from , ) is a skilled craft worker who makes or creates things by hand that may be functional or strictly decorative, for example furniture, decorative arts, sculptures, clothing, jewellery, food items, household items and tools or even mechanisms such as the handmade clockwork movement of a watchmaker. Artisans practice a craft and may through experience and aptitude reach the expressive levels of an artist.\n\nThe adjective \"artisanal\" is sometimes used in describing hand-processing in what is usually viewed as an industrial process, such as in the phrase \"artisanal mining\". Thus, \"artisanal\" is sometimes used in marketing and advertising as a buzz word to describe or imply some relation with the crafting of handmade food products, such as bread, beverages or cheese. Many of these have traditionally been handmade, rural or pastoral goods but are also now commonly made on a larger scale with automated mechanization in factories and other industrial areas.\n\nArtisans were the dominant producers of consumer products before the Industrial Revolution. \n\nIn ancient Greece, artisans were drawn to agoras and often built workshops nearby.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, the term \"artisan\" was applied to those who made things or provided services. It did not apply to unskilled manual labourers. Artisans were divided into two distinct groups: those who operated their own businesses and those who did not. Those who owned their businesses were called masters, while the latter were the journeymen and apprentices. One misunderstanding many people have about this social group is that they picture them as \"workers\" in the modern sense: employed by someone. The most influential group among the artisans were the masters, the business owners. The owners enjoyed a higher social status in their communities.\n\nShokunin is a Japanese word for \"artisan\" or \"craftsman\", which also implies a pride in one's own work. In the words of shokunin Tashio Odate:Shokunin means not only having technical skill, but also implies an attitude and social consciousness... a social obligation to work his best for the general welfare of the people, [an] obligation both material and spiritual. Traditionally, shokunin honoured their tools of trade at New Year's – the sharpened and taken-care of tools would be placed in a tokonoma (a container or box still found in Japanese houses and shops), and two rice cakes and a tangerine (on top of rice paper) were placed on top of each toolbox, to honour the tools and express gratitude for performing their task.\n\n\nArtian .com /Prezzy\n\n"}
{"id": "13855249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13855249", "title": "Bad Girls Go to Hell", "text": "Bad Girls Go to Hell\n\nBad Girls Go to Hell is a 1965 sexploitation film, written, produced and directed by Doris Wishman. The film stars Gigi Darlene, Sam Stewart, Barnard L. Sackett and Darlene Bennett.\n\nMeg (Gigi Darlene) is a Boston housewife, who is sexually assaulted by the superintendent of her apartment building. Killing him during the attack, she flees to New York City. She is then befriended by a series of people with whom she becomes emotionally and sexually involved, all the while trying to evade a narrowing police dragnet. The film is structured around a long dream sequence and features a surprise ending. It contains soft-core sexual situations.\n\n\nIn 2008, Apprehensive Films released \"Bad Girls Go to Hell\" onto DVD.\n\n\n\nReviews\n"}
{"id": "4575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4575", "title": "Ballad", "text": "Ballad\n\nA ballad is a form of verse, often a narrative set to music. Ballads derive from the medieval French \"chanson balladée\" or \"ballade\", which were originally \"danced songs\". Ballads were particularly characteristic of the popular poetry and song of the British Isles from the later medieval period until the 19th century. They were widely used across Europe, and later in Australia, North Africa, North America and South America. Ballads are often 13 lines with an ABABBCBC form, consisting of couplets (two lines) of rhymed verse, each of 14 syllables. Another common form is ABAB or ABCB repeated, in alternating 8 and 6 syllable lines.\n\nMany ballads were written and sold as single sheet broadsides. The form was often used by poets and composers from the 18th century onwards to produce lyrical ballads. In the later 19th century, the term took on the meaning of a slow form of popular love song and is often used for any love song, particularly the sentimental ballad of pop or rock.\n\nThe ballad derives its name from medieval French dance songs or \"ballares\" (L: \"ballare\", to dance), from which 'ballet' is also derived, as did the alternative rival form that became the French ballade. As a narrative song, their theme and function may originate from Scandinavian and Germanic traditions of storytelling that can be seen in poems such as Beowulf. Musically they were influenced by the Minnesinger. The earliest example of a recognizable ballad in form in England is \"Judas\" in a 13th-century manuscript.\nThis means that the two words, ballad and ballet, are both derived from the French language.\n\nBallads were originally written to accompany dances, and so were composed in couplets with refrains in alternate lines. These refrains would have been sung by the dancers in time with the dance. Most northern and west European ballads are written in ballad stanzas or quatrains (four-line stanzas) of alternating lines of iambic (an unstressed followed by a stressed syllable) tetrameter (eight syllables) and iambic trimeter (six syllables), known as ballad meter. Usually, only the second and fourth line of a quatrain are rhymed (in the scheme a, b, c, b), which has been taken to suggest that, originally, ballads consisted of couplets (two lines) of rhymed verse, each of 14 syllables. This can be seen in this stanza from \"Lord Thomas and Fair Annet\":\n\nThe horse | fair Ann | et rode | upon |\nHe amb | led like | the wind |,\nWith sil | ver he | was shod | before,\nWith burn | ing gold | behind |.\n\nThere is considerable variation on this pattern in almost every respect, including length, number of lines and rhyming scheme, making the strict definition of a ballad extremely difficult. In southern and eastern Europe, and in countries that derive their tradition from them, ballad structure differs significantly, like Spanish \"romanceros\", which are octosyllabic and use consonance rather than rhyme.\n\nBallads usually are heavily influenced by the regions in which they originate and use the common dialect of the people. Scotland's ballads in particular, both in theme and language, are strongly characterised by their distinctive tradition, even exhibiting some pre-Christian influences in the inclusion of supernatural elements such as travel to the Fairy Kingdom in the Scots ballad \"Tam Lin\". The ballads do not have any known author or correct version; instead, having been passed down mainly by oral tradition since the Middle Ages, there are many variations of each. The ballads remained an oral tradition until the increased interest in folk songs in the 18th century led collectors such as Bishop Thomas Percy (1729–1811) to publish volumes of popular ballads.\n\nIn all traditions most ballads are narrative in nature, with a self-contained story, often concise, and rely on imagery, rather than description, which can be tragic, historical, romantic or comic. Themes concerning rural laborers and their sexuality are common, and there are many ballads based on the Robin Hood legend. Another common feature of ballads is repetition, sometimes of fourth lines in succeeding stanzas, as a refrain, sometimes of third and fourth lines of a stanza and sometimes of entire stanzas.\n\nScholars of ballads have been divided into \"communalists\", such as Johann Gottfried Herder (1744–1803) and the Brothers Grimm, who argue that ballads are originally communal compositions, and \"individualists\" such as Cecil Sharp, who assert that there was one single original author. Communalists tend to see more recent, particularly printed, broadside ballads of known authorship as a debased form of the genre, while individualists see variants as corruptions of an original text. More recently scholars have pointed to the interchange of oral and written forms of the ballad.\n\nThe transmission of ballads comprises a key stage in their re-composition. In romantic terms this process is often dramatized as a narrative of degeneration away from the pure 'folk memory' or 'immemorial tradition'. In the introduction to \"The Minstrelsy of the Scottish Border\" (1802) the romantic poet and historical novelist Walter Scott argued a need to 'remove obvious corruptions' in order to attempt to restore a supposed original. For Scott, the process of multiple recitations 'incurs the risk of impertinent interpolations from the conceit of one rehearser, unintelligible blunders from the stupidity of another, and omissions equally to be regretted, from the want of memory of a third.' Similarly, John Robert Moore noted 'a natural tendency to oblivescence'. According to Scott, transcribed ballads often have a 'flatness and insipidity' compared to their oral counterparts.\n\n European Ballads have been generally classified into three major groups: traditional, broadside and literary. In America a distinction is drawn between ballads that are versions of European, particularly British and Irish songs, and 'Native American ballads', developed without reference to earlier songs. A further development was the evolution of the blues ballad, which mixed the genre with Afro-American music. For the late 19th century the music publishing industry found a market for what are often termed sentimental ballads, and these are the origin of the modern use of the term 'ballad' to mean a slow love song.\n\nThe traditional, classical or popular (meaning of the people) ballad has been seen as beginning with the wandering minstrels of late medieval Europe. From the end of the 15th century there are printed ballads that suggest a rich tradition of popular music. A reference in William Langland's \"Piers Plowman\" indicates that ballads about Robin Hood were being sung from at least the late 14th century and the oldest detailed material is Wynkyn de Worde's collection of Robin Hood ballads printed about 1495.\n\nEarly collections of English ballads were made by Samuel Pepys (1633–1703) and in the Roxburghe Ballads collected by Robert Harley, 1st (1784), which paralleled the work in Scotland by Walter Scott and Robert Burns. Inspired by his reading as a teenager of \"Reliques of Ancient English Poetry\" by Thomas Percy, Scott began collecting ballads while he attended Edinburgh University in the 1790s. He published his research from 1802 to 1803 in a three-volume work, \"The Minstrelsy of the Scottish Border\". Burns collaborated with James Johnson on the multi-volume \"Scots Musical Museum\", a miscellany of folk songs and poetry with original work by Burns. Around the same time, he worked with George Thompson on \"A Select Collection of Original Scottish Airs for the Voice\".\n\nBoth Northern English and Southern Scots shared in the identified tradition of Border ballads, particularly evinced by the cross-border narrative in versions of \"The Ballad of Chevy Chase\" sometimes associated with the Lancashire-born sixteenth-century minstrel Richard Sheale.\n\nIt has been suggested that the increasing interest in traditional popular ballads during the eighteenth century was prompted by social issues such as the enclosure movement as many of the ballads deal with themes concerning rural laborers. James Davey has suggested that the common themes of sailing and naval battles may also have prompted the use (at least in England) of popular ballads as naval recruitment tools.\n\nKey work on the traditional ballad was undertaken in the late 19th century in Denmark by Svend Grundtvig and for England and Scotland by the Harvard professor Francis James Child. They attempted to record and classify all the known ballads and variants in their chosen regions. Since Child died before writing a commentary on his work it is uncertain exactly how and why he differentiated the 305 ballads printed that would be published as \"The English and Scottish Popular Ballads\". There have been many different and contradictory attempts to classify traditional ballads by theme, but commonly identified types are the religious, supernatural, tragic, love ballads, historic, legendary and humorous. The traditional form and content of the ballad were modified to form the basis for twenty-three bawdy pornographic ballads that appeared in the underground Victorian magazine \"The Pearl\", which ran for eighteen issues between 1879 and 1880. Unlike the traditional ballad, these obscene ballads aggressively mocked sentimental nostalgia and local lore.\n\nBroadside ballads (also known as 'broadsheet', 'stall', 'vulgar' or 'come all ye' ballads) were a product of the development of cheap print in the 16th century. They were generally printed on one side of a medium to large sheet of poor quality paper. In the first half of the 17th century, they were printed in black-letter or gothic type and included multiple, eye-catching illustrations, a popular tune title, as well as an alluring poem. By the 18th century, they were printed in white letter or roman type and often without much decoration (as well as tune title). These later sheets could include many individual songs, which would be cut apart and sold individually as \"slip songs.\" Alternatively, they might be folded to make small cheap books or \"chapbooks\" which often drew on ballad stories. They were produced in huge numbers, with over 400,000 being sold in England annually by the 1660s. Tessa Watt estimates the number of copies sold may have been in the millions. Many were sold by travelling chapmen in city streets or at fairs. The subject matter varied from what has been defined as the traditional ballad, although many traditional ballads were printed as broadsides. Among the topics were love, marriage, religion, drinking-songs, legends, and early journalism, which included disasters, political events and signs, wonders and prodigies.\n\nLiterary or lyrical ballads grew out of an increasing interest in the ballad form among social elites and intellectuals, particularly in the Romantic movement from the later 18th century. Respected literary figures Robert Burns and Walter Scott in Scotland collected and wrote their own ballads. Similarly in England William Wordsworth and Samuel Taylor Coleridge produced a collection of \"Lyrical Ballads\" in 1798 that included Coleridge's \"The Rime of the Ancient Mariner\". Wordsworth, Coleridge, and Keats were attracted to the simple and natural style of these folk ballads and tried to imitate it. At the same time in Germany Goethe cooperated with Schiller on a series of ballads, some of which were later set to music by Schubert. Later important examples of the poetic form included Rudyard Kipling's \"Barrack-Room Ballads\" (1892-6) and Oscar Wilde's \"The Ballad of Reading Gaol\" (1897). Victorian poet Christina Rossetti used ballad forms to explore spiritual and moral issues and to discuss the stereotypical treatment and representation of men and women's roles in society.\n\nIn the 18th century ballad operas developed as a form of English stage entertainment, partly in opposition to the Italian domination of the London operatic scene. It consisted of racy and often satirical spoken (English) dialogue, interspersed with songs that are deliberately kept very short to minimize disruptions to the flow of the story. Rather than the more aristocratic themes and music of the Italian opera, the ballad operas were set to the music of popular folk songs and dealt with lower-class characters. Subject matter involved the lower, often criminal, orders, and typically showed a suspension (or inversion) of the high moral values of the Italian opera of the period. The first, most important and successful was \"The Beggar's Opera\" of 1728, with a libretto by John Gay and music arranged by John Christopher Pepusch, both of whom probably influenced by Paris ian vaudeville and the burlesques and musical plays of Thomas d'Urfey (1653–1723), a number of whose collected ballads they used in their work. Gay produced further works in this style, including a sequel under the title \"Polly\". Henry Fielding, Colley Cibber, Arne, Dibdin, Arnold, Shield, Jackson of Exeter, Hook and many others produced ballad operas that enjoyed great popularity. Ballad opera was attempted in America and Prussia. Later it moved into a more pastoral form, like Isaac Bickerstaffe's \"Love in a Village\" (1763) and Shield's \"Rosina\" (1781), using more original music that imitated, rather than reproduced, existing ballads. Although the form declined in popularity towards the end of the 18th century its influence can be seen in light operas like that of Gilbert and Sullivan's early works like \"The Sorcerer\" as well as in the modern musical. In the 20th century, one of the most influential plays, Kurt Weill and Bertolt Brecht's (1928) \"The Threepenny Opera\" was a reworking of \"The Beggar's Opera\", setting a similar story with the same characters, and containing much of the same satirical bite, but only using one tune from the original. The term ballad opera has also been used to describe musicals using folk music, such as \"The Martins and the Coys\" in 1944, and Peter Bellamy's \"The Transports\" in 1977. The satiric elements of ballad opera can be seen in some modern musicals such as \"Chicago\" and \"Cabaret\".\n\nNative American ballads are ballads that are native to North America (not to be confused with ballads performed by Native Americans). Some 300 ballads sung in North America have been identified as having origins in British traditional or broadside ballads. Examples include 'The Streets of Laredo', which was found in Britain and Ireland as 'The Unfortunate Rake'; however, a further 400 have been identified as originating in North America, including among the best known, 'The Ballad of Davy Crockett' and 'Jesse James'. They became an increasing area of interest for scholars in the 19th century and most were recorded or catalogued by George Malcolm Laws, although some have since been found to have British origins and additional songs have since been collected. They are usually considered closest in form to British broadside ballads and in terms of style are largely indistinguishable, however, they demonstrate a particular concern with occupations, journalistic style and often lack the ribaldry of British broadside ballads.\n\nThe blues ballad has been seen as a fusion of Anglo-American and Afro-American styles of music from the 19th century. Blues ballads tend to deal with active protagonists, often anti-heroes, resisting adversity and authority, but frequently lacking a strong narrative and emphasising character instead. They were often accompanied by banjo and guitar which followed the blues musical format. The most famous blues ballads include those about John Henry and Casey Jones.\n\nThe ballad was taken to Australia by early settlers from Britain and Ireland and gained particular foothold in the rural outback. The rhyming songs, poems and tales written in the form of ballads often relate to the itinerant and rebellious spirit of Australia in The Bush, and the authors and performers are often referred to as bush bards. The 19th century was the golden age of bush ballads. Several collectors have catalogued the songs including John Meredith whose recording in the 1950s became the basis of the collection in the National Library of Australia. The songs tell personal stories of life in the wide open country of Australia. Typical subjects include mining, raising and droving cattle, sheep shearing, wanderings, war stories, the 1891 Australian shearers' strike, class conflicts between the landless working class and the squatters (landowners), and outlaws such as Ned Kelly, as well as love interests and more modern fare such as trucking. The most famous bush ballad is \"Waltzing Matilda\", which has been called \"the unofficial national anthem of Australia\".\n\nSentimental ballads, sometimes called \"tear-jerkers\" or \"drawing-room ballads\" owing to their popularity with the middle classes, had their origins in the early \"Tin Pan Alley\" music industry of the later 19th century. They were generally sentimental, narrative, strophic songs published separately or as part of an opera (descendants perhaps of broadside ballads, but with printed music, and usually newly composed). Such songs include \"Little Rosewood Casket\" (1870), \"After the Ball\" (1892) and \"Danny Boy\". The association with sentimentality led to the term \"ballad\" being used for slow love songs from the 1950s onwards. Modern variations include \"jazz ballads\", \"pop ballads\", \"R&B ballads\" and \"power ballads\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47878489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47878489", "title": "Barefoot", "text": "Barefoot\n\nBarefoot is the most common term for the state of not wearing any footwear.\n\nWearing footwear is an exclusively human characteristic, however some animals held by humans are also issued with footwear, such as horses and, more rarely dogs and cats. There are health benefits and some risks associated with going barefoot. Footwear provides protection from cuts, abrasions, bruises, and impacts from objects on the ground or the ground texture itself, as well as from frost or heat burns, and parasites like hookworm in extreme situations. However, shoes can limit the flexibility, strength, and mobility of the foot and can lead to higher incidences of flexible flat foot, bunions, hammer toe, and Morton's neuroma. Walking and running barefoot results in a more natural gait, allowing for a more rocking motion of the foot, eliminating the hard heel strike and therefore generating less collision force in the foot and lower leg.\n\nThere are many sports that are performed barefoot, most notably gymnastics and martial arts, but also beach volleyball, barefoot running, barefoot hiking, and water skiing. In modern language, someone who tends not to wear shoes in public or is participating in the aforementioned sports may be described as a barefooter.\n\nPeople in ancient times, such as the Egyptians, Hindus, and Greeks often went barefoot, as the inhabited terrain mostly mandated no practical necessity for footwear. The Egyptians and Hindus made some use of ornamental footwear, such as a soleless sandal known as a \"Cleopatra\", which did not provide any practical protection for the foot. Athletes in the Ancient Olympic Games participated barefoot and generally unclothed. Even the gods and heroes were primarily depicted barefoot.\n\nThe Romans, who eventually conquered the Greeks and adopted many aspects of their culture, did not adopt the Greek perception of footwear and clothing. Roman clothing explicitly including footwear was seen as a sign of power and as a necessity of living in a civilized world; accordingly slaves usually were to remain barefoot. There are many references to shoes being worn in the Bible. During weddings of this period, a father would give his son-in-law a pair of shoes to symbolize the transfer of authority.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, both men and women wore pattens in Europe, commonly seen as the predecessor of the modern high-heeled shoe, while menial classes usually wore hand-made footwear out of available materials. Going barefoot was seen as a marker of poverty and the lowest social class, as well as being the mark of a prisoner (see below). In the 15th century, chopines were created in Turkey and were usually 7–8 inches (17.7–20.3 cm) high. These shoes became popular in Venice and throughout Europe as a status symbol revealing wealth and social standing. During the 16th century royalty, such as Catherine de Medici and Mary I of England, started wearing high-heeled shoes to make them look taller or larger than life. By 1580, even men wore them, and a person with authority or wealth was often referred to as \"well-heeled\".\n\nThe phrase \"barefoot and pregnant\" is now used to illustrate a woman's traditional role as a homemaker and thus her lack of opportunities to socialize or to have a career outside of the home. It was first used in the early 20th century, possibly by Arthur E. Hertzler (also known as the \"Kansas Horse-and-Buggy Doctor\"), promoting a hypothesis that:\n\nBare feet have come to symbolize innocence or childhood in a glorifying perception of freedom from real-life requirements. The connection to childhood and innocence, as well as the simple joys of country life, are embodied in the poem \"The Barefoot Boy\" by John Greenleaf Whittier, published in 1855. Additionally, the book \"Dancing Barefoot\" by \"\" actor Wil Wheaton features five short stories that chronicle his journey from childhood and youth through to maturity and self-acceptance.\n\nIn most religions, the exposure of bare feet is regarded as a sign of humility and subjection. Some religious practitioners have taken a vow of Gospel poverty, while there are certain convents where going barefoot is obligatory (Convent of Las Descalzas Reales, Poor Clares, Colettine Poor Clares). With regard to the use of footwear as a display of status, the religious and common art of many cultures throughout the world shows a person without shoes symbolizing either extreme poverty or the state of captivity and unfree servitude. In Thailand, Master Jinshen, a Buddhist monk, walks per day barefoot as a reminder to others who pursue a material life to protect and be concerned for Mother Nature. He states that he does this to follow Buddhist rules, to lead the people to the path of virtue, and to develop his Buddhist spirit. It is customary in Judaism and some Christian denominations to go barefoot while mourning. Some Christian churches practice barefoot pilgrimage traditions, such as the ascent of Croagh Patrick in Ireland at night while barefoot (although the nighttime part is no longer encouraged).\n\nIn many religions, it is common to remove shoes when entering a place considered holy. For example, in the Book of Exodus, Moses was instructed to remove his shoes before approaching the burning bush:\n\nAnyone entering a mosque or a Hindu temple, including a visitor, is expected to remove his or her shoes; racks for the storage of shoes are usually provided at the entrance.\n\nFoot washing, or ceremonial washing of others' feet, is associated with humility in Christianity, and Jesus Christ is recorded in the New Testament as washing the feet of his disciples to serve them during the Last Supper. Christians who practice foot washing today do so to bring them closer to Jesus and to fill them with a sense of humility and service. Roman Catholics show their respect and humility for the Pope by kissing his feet. In a similar manner, Hindus show love and respect to a guru by touching his bare feet (called pranam). It is customary to show one's respect by walking barefoot around Raj Ghat, the monument to Mahatma Gandhi. Both United States President George W. Bush and Pope John Paul II paid him this honor. During the Imperial Japanese period, removing one's shoes in the presence of a person of higher status was a sign of showing one's own humility, subordination, and respect towards their status.\n\nChristian congregations of men and women that go entirely barefoot or wear sandals include the Discalced, like the Discalced Carmelites (1568), the Feuillants (Cistercians, 1575), the Trinitarians (1594), the Mercedarians (1604), and the Passionists.\n\nIn many branches of Romani culture across the world, it is traditional for women to dance barefoot.\n\nFirewalking is the practice of walking barefoot over hot coals. It has been practiced by many people and cultures in all parts of the world, with the earliest known reference dating back to Iron Age India – c. 1200 BC. It is often used as a rite of passage, as a test of an individual's strength and courage, or, in religion, as a test of one's faith. Today, it is often used in corporate and team-building seminars and self-help workshops as a confidence-building exercise. Firewalking implies the belief that the feat requires the aid of a supernatural force, strong faith, or on an individual's ability to focus on \"mind over matter\". Modern physics has largely debunked this, showing that the amount of time the foot is in contact with the ground is not enough to induce a burn, combined with the fact that coal is not a very good conductor of heat.\n\nIt is common for Australians, particularly young people, to be barefoot in public places, especially during summer. McDonald's launched a summer advertisement in 2012 featuring a customer running barefoot through the hot carpark to the restaurant. In some rural and remote areas, such as the Northern Territory, Western NSW, regional Queensland and many islands, students often attend school barefoot. On Lord Howe Island the Lord Howe Island Board has described the fact pupils at the government-run Lord Howe Island Central School are allowed to attend school barefoot as a part of the \"island lifestyle\" and a \"community asset\".\n\nIn 2010, an American lecturer missed out on a job after criticising barefoot locals in a newspaper. The lecturer wrote barefoot locals were \"not only backward and uncivilised, but dangerously unhygienic and repulsive to North Americans\" in response to an article mocking a no shoes, no service policy in Texas.\nIn 2012, a travel writer for \"The New York Times\" wrote the number of New Zealanders barefoot in public, including shops was \"striking\". Many expats in New Zealand have been surprised how many people, of all races and classes, carry on daily business barefoot\nIn 2014, Air New Zealand was subject of critical attention after allegedly forcing a customer to wear shoes.\n\nBeing barefoot in public is more common during warmer months, and often accepted as a social norm, however this does not extend to metropolitan cities such as London, but more for rural areas and more common for young children and teenagers. Some British schools also allow children to attend school barefoot in warmer months, and encourage it for indoor and outdoor physical education lessons. The National Health Service has recommended that people \"go barefoot or wear open-toed sandals whenever you can in the hot weather...to help stop your feet getting sweaty and smelly.\"\n\nIn South Africa barefoot walking in public is part of the predominantly white Afrikaans speaking culture, although English speaking people also often walk barefoot in public, especially in the summer months and in cities such as Cape Town.\nThe National Guidelines on School Uniform list shoes as an optional item while the Draft Guidelines state \"Pupils, especially in lower grades, should also\nbe permitted to attend without shoes in hot weather\". Most children attend school barefoot. In many schools, the dress codes either encourage kids to attend school barefoot or prefer kids to attend school barefoot, especially in the summer months.\nSome South African schools have sport uniforms where bare feet are compulsory, such as primary school rugby. Another sport where bare feet for kids are compulsory is \"tou trek\" or tug of war. Being barefoot in public is generally tolerated. In South African shopping malls, stores, and events, it is not an uncommon sight to see barefoot adults, kids and especially teenagers and young adults.\n\nIn some parts of the United States, where taboos against barefoot walking are strong, it is common for people to wear the same shoes indoors and outdoors, and for guests to keep their shoes on when visiting other people's houses. \nYoungstown, Ohio, actually did have an ordinance prohibiting barefooting until it was struck down as unconstitutional. However, in the early 18th to 20th century many children in rural areas of America often went barefoot due to poverty. Many stores, restaurants, and other public venues in the United States employ dress codes prohibiting bare feet. While private business owners are free to set their own policies, many cite different health regulations, though these typically are occupational safety requirements that pertain to employees only. \n\nRemoving the footwear and making a captive go barefoot has been one of the first conventional methods to tag and identify prisoners in most civilizations. It was a usual feature and often the principle element of early prison uniforms. The visual aspect of bare feet is therefore used to contrast the conventional appearance as footwear is regarded an obligatory clothing feature in urbanized cultures.\n\nBesides the indicatory aspect going in bare feet restricts the freedom of action in many situations. A barefooted person is therefore disadvantaged opposite a shod person in many practical respects. This aspect is often used to exercise physical control over individuals in captivity.\n\nA barefoot person is usually disadvantaged in a physical confrontation against shod individuals. Drastically more severe injuries can be sustained especially by a kicking person outfitted with footwear in contrast to a person in bare feet. For this reason shoes are considered deadly weapons by penal laws of most countries. Bare feet on the other hand present an opportune and vulnerable target for the application of force. These effects are usually desired by correctional or police officers primarily in confrontational situations with antagonistic individuals. The risk of personal injury is therefore notably reduced and the situation can often be resolved more efficiently.\n\nAnother main objective is preventing and counteracting potential attempts of prison escape.\nWithout the protection of the feet that shoes provide, the locomotion of an unshod person is more difficult in the majority of exterior environments, so a potential fugitive is easier to retrieve in many cases. Detainees are often discouraged from attempting escape by this measure alone.\n\nA barefoot person experiences certain discomfort in daily life situations. The desire to be protected from the common inconveniences of the ground, mostly due to coarse textures or adverse temperatures, prompted humans to make use of footwear in ancient history. Incidentally the traditional visual appearance of civilized societies was established, including footwear as an obligatory feature.\nA forced exclusion from the conveniences and also appearance of footwear typically creates an frequent awareness of being vulnerable, therefore it can have an intimidating effect on a person. The enforcement of bare feet often creates a consciousness of being powerless and degraded notably on prisoners, as they typically cannot relieve this situation on their own.\n\nAs the practical effects are typically achieved effortlessly, keeping captives or prisoners barefoot has been cross-culturally practiced since antiquity.\n\nIt was also commonly practiced to identify slaves in former times.\n\nSince ancient times, it is a common practice in civil societies to wear footwear as a standard feature. In contrast to this convention, \"slave codes\" often decreed that slaves go barefoot. For example, the Cape Town slave code stated that \"Slaves must go barefoot and must carry passes.\" This was the case in the majority of states that abolished slavery later in history, as most images from the respective historical period suggest that slaves were barefoot.\nTo quote Brother Riemer (1779): \"[the slaves] are, even in their most beautiful suit, obliged to go barefoot. Slaves were forbidden to wear shoes. This was a prime mark of distinction between the free and the bonded and no exceptions were permitted.\" \n\nShoes have been regarded as badges of freedom and signs of empowerment since early human history, while going barefoot designated a rather low social rank, often having the status of an unfree person. Using the symbolic meaning of shoes to display a respectable social status and also being vested with authority, people have ceremonially been issued with footwear as is mentioned in the bible \"But the father said to his servants, Bring forth the best robe, and put [it] on him; and put a ring on his hand, and shoes on [his] feet ()\". Forcing individuals to go barefoot by taking away their shoes and disallowing or hindering them to be worn accordingly has the reversed meaning. While since ancient societies the standard form of appearance commonly includes footwear as an implicit feature, the imagery or bare feet is often used to indicate submission, subjugation or dependence, in certain contexts also being disarmed or disempowered. <br>Therefore, this detail has become an informal and sometimes even formal law in societies practicing slavery. A barefooted human could be unmistakably identified as unfree and be attributed with the lowest social status on the spot. As a consequence appearing barefooted in any social situation was proscribed for common citizens and strictly avoided. <br>In many US states this perception is prevalent to this day as everyday shoes are typically also worn in the private space and being barefooted is effectively placed under taboo (see above).\n\nIn certain societies this rule pertains to this day where slavery is still unofficially practiced. The Tuareg are known still to practice slavery and force their slaves to go barefoot.\n\nIn several countries of the world prison inmates have to remain barefoot under regulatory constraint.\nIn history this was common practice in most civilizations as bare feet were commonly received as a characteristic of unfree individuals. It also marked the first means of visually marking prisoners in terms of a prison uniform.\n\nThis is current practice in China, Zimbabwe, Thailand, Uganda,\nIran, Pakistan, India, Congo, Malawi, Rwanda, Côte d’Ivoire (Ivory Coast), and North Korea among others.\n\nIn Thailand, a defendant in penal proceedings traditionally must remain barefoot for courtroom appearances.\n\nIn Germany it was common practice during the Nazi-era to keep especially female prisoners uniformly barefoot. In particular camps the women also had to perform forced labor in their bare feet, at times even under adverse weather conditions. This was implemented as means to intimidate the detained individuals and dampen renitency as well as to reduce the expenses for clothing items. It was also part of the then prevalent practice in Nazi-Germany to victimize prisoners.\n\nWithin women's penitentiaries in socialist East Germany (German Democratic Republic) especially political prisoners who were regarded as opponents of the regime could have their footwear seized and be detained barefoot as an aggravation of their penalty.\n\nThe earmarking of captives by forcing them to go in bare feet was also practiced specifically on imprisoned women in parts of the United States until the early 20th century. It was then common practice by penal institutions particularly in Texas to exclude female prisoners from being issued with any kind of footwear, by this means keeping them barefoot throughout. Contrary to this measure adequate shoes were provided for male convicts as a matter of course. There were no apparent security motives for this unequal treatment; it was however practiced to point out the evident hierarchy between male and female detainees. The according structure of subordination of the female prisoners also towards the male convicts was therefore showcased in an evident and palpable way. It also conformed to the notion of the criminal courts, who widely saw prisoners as official slaves of the state. In this an analogy to actual former slaves was drawn, who were often forced to remain barefoot as well (see above). As going shoeless is placed under a more or less strict social taboo in most regions of the US (see above), being forced to go entirely barefoot determined the degradation to the lowest social rank for the incarcerated women. This arbitrary and victimizing measure was an apparent token for the general discrimination against incarcerated women, who unlike male prisoners did not have the right to claim legal remedies at that time.\n\nIn the present ISIS usually deprives their captives of footwear, presumably in order to identify them more readily and prevent escape.\n\nIn the bible there are multiple passages stating that a potent way to inflict humiliation on another human being lies in taking away his or her shoes and forcing the individual to go barefoot. Ritual customs therefore consisted of publicly taking away a disgraced person's shoes. This resulted in the individual being defamed as a \"barefooter\" culminating in the loss of social standing. On the other hand, taking off the shoes of one's own will and voluntarily exposing one's bare feet is regarded as a token of submission and humility by the bible. This included the subjection under higher powers as well as a mundane authority. Therefore, it was concluded to be imperative that prisoners or captives were to be kept barefoot and in light clothing as a token of their subjugation.\n\nDuring the era of the Catholic Inquisition it was commonly believed that women practicing witchcraft had their ability to use sinister powers largely diminished if they were forced to remain barefoot. As a consequence first of all the just arrested woman routinely had her footwear taken away, ensuring that her feet remained unclothed at all events. Due to interpretations of the \"Malleus Maleficarum\" it was believed that in case a witch was not strictly kept in her bare feet she could still cast a spell on people by just looking at them. As the prosecutors wanted to avoid any risk, it was seen to it that the bare feet of the accused woman were constantly visible, so to convince themselves at any moment.\n\nDuring questioning or in court the accused women often had to stand on a consecrated spot with the soles of their bare feet touching the sanctified area. This was believed to completely inhibit any of their purported magic powers. Accordingly, the women were forbidden to look at the prosecutors when their bare feet were not strictly in place. To further ensure safety they were often lead in walking backwards when facing the prosecution. They were allowed to turn around only if their bare feet could clearly be seen to be within the bounded spot.\nAs the accused women naturally could not use any magic while they were tried, this assumption became an accepted doctrine.\nAccordingly, contemporary depictions about inquisition proceedings or similar situations portray the tried women barefooted in almost every case.\n\nThe soles of a person's bare feet also serve as a target for corporal punishment, commonly referred to as \"bastinado\" (foot whipping). This method is mainly used in the context of penal functions and situations of detention or incarceration.\n\nThe practice of foot whipping is still officially employed in several Middle Eastern nations where the term \"falaka\" is customary. In history, bastinado was frequently practiced in Western countries as well. Among others, it was commonly used in German territories, where it was employed until the end of the Nazi-era, mainly within the reformatory and detention system. In certain facilities it even continued to be used during the 1950s.\n\nThe beatings usually aim at the muscular tissue within the vaults of the foot (longitudinal arch of the foot), omitting the bone structure of the ball and the heel. The vaults are highly touch-sensitive and therefore susceptible to pain due to the tight clustering of nerve endings.\n\nAs bastinado causes substantial suffering for the victim while physical evidence remains largely undetectable after some time, it is frequently used for interrogation and torture in rogue regimes as well.\n\nMany singers and dancers perform on stage barefoot. The classical dance of Cambodia had its roots in the holy dances of the legendary seductresses (\"apsaras\") of ancient Cambodia and attained its high point during the Angkor period in its interpretations of the Indian epics, especially the \"Ramayana\". Cambodian dancers were well-born women of the king's harem and danced barefoot, with the feet turned outwards and the legs slightly bent at the knee to cushion the movements of the upper body. The unimpeded movement of the foot was essential to the art. When the land was invaded by the Thai, the dancers were taken to the Thai court, where their art was adapted and continued to flourish.\n\nThe barefoot dance movement of the early 20th century challenged the received laws of classical dance and the broader laws of social decorum. For decades, the bare foot had been perceived as obscene, and no matter how determined barefoot dancers were to validate their art with reference to spiritual, artistic, historic, and organic concepts, barefoot dancing was inextricably linked in the public mind with indecency and sexual taboo. In 1908, Maud Allan shocked and fascinated London theatre-goers with her barefoot dance of desire in \"Salome\", and scandalous tributes positioned her as the embodiment of lust. For many, barefoot dancing represented not only the freedom and horror of modern sexuality but the progress and decline of high culture.\nCalifornian Isadora Duncan revolutionized dance in the Western world by jettisoning the tutu and the pointe shoe of classical ballet and scandalized audiences by performing works of her own choreography in flowing draperies and bare feet. She anticipated the modern women's liberation movement by urging women to rid themselves of corsets and matrimony. Duncan divorced the bare foot from perceptions of obscenity and made a conscious effort to link barefoot dancing to ideals such as \"nudity, childhood, the idyllic past, flowing lines, health, nobility, ease, freedom, simplicity, order, and harmony\". She believed her utopian dance vision and program would ameliorate the perceived ills of modern life and restore the world to the imagined perfection of Ancient Greece.\n\nThe 1954 film \"The Barefoot Contessa\" tells the fictional story of Maria Vargas (portrayed by Ava Gardner), a Spanish cabaret dancer of simple origins who frequently went barefoot. She was cast in a movie by writer and director Harry Dawes (portrayed by Humphrey Bogart) and became a major star. In 1978, Ina Garten purchased a specialty food store in The Hamptons named \"Barefoot Contessa\", after the movie. She liked the name because it went well with her simple and elegant cooking style. She sold the store in 1999 and wrote her first book, \"The Barefoot Contessa Cookbook\", which became one of the best-selling cookbooks of the year. She would go on to write more cookbooks and, in 2002, started production of a television show on the Food Network, also named the \"Barefoot Contessa\", which continues to run.\nIn the latter half of the 20th century, many singers, primarily females, have performed barefoot, a trend that continues in the early 21st century. One of the first singers to become well known for singing barefoot on stage was Sandie Shaw, who became known as the \"Barefoot Pop Princess of the 1960s.\" Jimmy Buffett is known for performing barefoot at concerts, promoting an island/beach bum lifestyle. Cesária Évora of Cape Verde was known as the \"Barefoot Diva\" for her habit of performing without shoes. Other performers known for performing barefoot onstage or in music videos include Ian Gillan, Linda Ronstadt, Patti LaBelle, Joss Stone, Shakira, Steven Wilson, Björk, Katharine McPhee, Sophie B. Hawkins, Deana Carter, Kelly Clarkson, Florence Welch, Lady Gaga, Madonna, Jewel, Dolores O'Riordan, Emmelie de Forest and Gwen Stefani. All members of the German brass punk band LaBrassBanda perform barefoot and in Lederhosen. Musician, composer, actor and comedian Tim Minchin performs his live shows barefoot, saying \"I don't wear shoes cos I went barefoot one day and liked it.\" Some singers believe that being barefoot allows them to channel their vocal energy better – a theory based on the teachings of the alternative medicine of reflexology. Others may do so to provide a more relaxing atmosphere and to calm them down. Joss Stone says that she doesn't like wearing shoes on stage because she doesn't want to fall over.\n\nTony Meléndez and Mark Goffeney have played the guitar on stage barefoot, with their feet, since they were born with no arms. Similarly, in 2008, Jessica Cox became the first person with no arms to use her bare feet to fly an airplane. There are armless artists who use their bare feet to paint, including Simona Atzori, who is a dancer. Renowned Scottish percussionist Evelyn Glennie, who is almost completely deaf, always performs her concerts barefoot in order to feel the vibrations of her instruments and the orchestra accompanying her.\n\nThere are risks and benefits associated with going barefoot. Footwear provides some protection from puncture wounds from glass, nails, rocks, or thorns as well as abrasions, bruises, heat burns, electrical shock, and frostbite—but studies of people who habitually walk barefoot have consistently found that these problems are minimal, with only about 0.89% of barefoot people having any kind of foot complaint linked to walking barefoot (including temporary conditions such as abrasions) or having the tops of the feet uncovered. Feet that have never worn shoes rarely exhibit problems such as bunions, corns, and \"fallen arches\", are not prone to more than ordinary foot eversion on standing and walking due to the associated weakness or stiffness of the joints of the foot and weakness of the muscles controlling them, as well as having a much reduced incidence of problems such as callouses.\n\nWalking barefoot results in a more natural gait. People who are used to walking barefoot tend to land less forcefully, eliminating the hard heel strike and generating much less collision force in the foot and lower leg. A 2006 study found that shoes may increase stress on the knee and ankle, and suggested that adults who walked barefoot may have a lower rate of osteoarthritis, although more study is required to elucidate the factors that distribute loads in shod and barefoot walking. A 2007 study examined 180 modern humans and compared their feet with 2,000-year-old skeletons. They concluded that, before the invention of shoes, humans overall had healthier feet. A 1991 study found that children who wore shoes were three times more likely to have flat feet than those who did not, and suggested that wearing shoes in early childhood can be detrimental to the longitudinal arch of the foot. Children who habitually go barefoot were found to have stronger feet, with better flexibility and mobility, fewer deformities like flat feet or toes that curve inwards, and fewer complaints. Walking barefoot enables a more natural gait, eliminating the hard heel strike and instead, allowing for a rocking motion of the foot from heel to toe. Similarly, barefoot running usually involves an initial forefoot strike, instead of on the rear of the foot, generating smaller collision forces.\n\nSince there is no artificial protection of the bare foot, some of the possible issues include cuts, abrasions, bruises, or puncture wounds from glass, nails, rocks, or thorns, as well as poisonous plants, animals, or parasites that can enter the body through the cuts on an injured bare foot. In people who are not habitually barefoot, Athlete's foot is spread by fungal spores coming into contact with skin that has been weakened and made moist. The fungus is known to only affect around 0.75% of habitually barefoot people in one study and can be prevented by reducing shoe use and keeping the feet dry, particularly after walking through a damp environment where people communally walk barefoot as the fungus only develops under the right conditions, such as when people fail to properly dry their feet after swimming or showering and then put on shoes. Wearing shoes such as flip flops or sandals in these areas can reduce the risk. As such, the fungus is very unlikely to develop on a person who goes barefoot all the time.\n\nThe hookworm parasite, found only in warm, moist climates where human feces contaminated with hookworm larvae has been left in places where it might come into contact with human skin, can burrow through a bare human foot (or any part of the body that comes into contact with it). However, as the parasite tends to occur mainly in mud and cesspools, its spread cannot be stopped by most standard shoes since the larvae can penetrate fabric and small holes. The parasite may spread through contaminated material coming into contact with any part of the body, such as through flecks of mud splashing on an ankle or leg. The hookworm parasite is relatively mild, has few symptoms, and can pass completely unnoticed when the infestation level is low enough. Since the hookworm infection is very cheap and easy to treat, and since it requires infected feces to come into contact with human skin within a particular time period, eradicating hookworm is mainly a matter of hygiene (including the building of proper toilet and waste-disposal facilities) and mass-treatment. In very cold weather, shoes can provide thermal insulation, protecting against frostbite.\n\nIssues that can develop as a result of someone who has always worn shoes going barefoot include calf pain or Achilles tendinitis or plantar fasciitis due to shortening of the Achilles tendon and the foot being underdeveloped, due to regular use of shoes. A careful transition ease or remove symptoms, which quickly vanish as the foot adapts. Blisters on the feet may occur in the first few weeks of going barefoot, until the skin has become more robust. Individuals with diabetes or other conditions that affect sensation in the feet are at greater risk of injury while barefoot. The American Diabetes Association recommends that diabetics wear shoes and socks at all times.\n\nIn the United States, there have been myths that regulations require the wearing of footwear. In the United States, during the period of the counterculture movement of the 1960s, business establishments would deny admittance to barefoot hippies arguing that health regulations required that shoes be worn. This led to a belief by many in nonexistent OSHA or local health department regulations preventing people from going to stores, restaurants, and other establishments without shoes. However, those regulations that exist apply only to employees and not customers. Specifically, the United States Occupational Safety and Health Administration requires employers to \"ensure that each affected employee uses protective footwear\" when there is a danger of foot injuries due to falling or rolling objects, objects piercing the sole of an employee's foot, and where an employee's feet may be exposed to electrical hazards. Additionally, employee footwear, where required by OSHA, must comply with one of the standards described in OSHA's regulations. State and local laws may dictate when and where an employee must wear shoes.\n\nSome people speculate that driving barefoot increases the risk of an accident if bare feet slip off the pedals. It is legal throughout the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom to drive barefoot. However, in some US jurisdictions, police officers may ticket a driver for other things if the fact that they were driving barefoot or in flip-flops/high heeled shoes hindered their driving and/or resulted in an accident.\n\nThere are several recreational activities one can participate in while barefoot. Those involved in water sports such as swimming and water polo almost always participate barefoot due to the difficulty of swimming with footwear.\n\nOther common activities performed barefoot include yoga, pilates, hiking, running, driving, water skiing, touch rugby, soccer, beach volleyball, surfing, tubing, gymnastics, Slacklining, and martial arts. Wrestling can be done barefoot. Although most modern Greco-Roman and WWE wrestlers wear shoes, sumo wrestling, Yağlı güreş (oil or \"Turkish\" wrestling), and mud wrestling are commonly done while barefoot. Fijian wrestler Jimmy \"Superfly\" Snuka of the WWE has wrestled barefoot as well. American football is not traditionally a barefoot sport, though several placekickers have preferred to kick barefoot, including Tony Franklin of the Philadelphia Eagles and Rich Karlis of the Denver Broncos. The two schools of thought involved in barefoot placekicking were that the lack of a shoe provided the kicker with a better \"feel\" for the ball and greater control over its trajectory. The second theory is that shoes and socks absorbed kinetic energy, and kicking flesh-to-leather created more torque.\n\nPeople of all ages all over the world can participate in barefoot hiking, gathering for walks through forest and hiking trails sans footwear. Barefoot hikers claim that they feel a sense of communion with the earth and enjoy the sheer pleasure of feeling more of the world with their feet. There are several clubs throughout North America practicing regular barefoot hikes, including the Barefoot Hikers of Minnesota, Seattle Barefoot Hikers, East Bay Barefoot Hikers, the Barefoot Hikers and Grass Walkers of Greater Kansas City, and the Barefoot Hikers of Connecticut.\nIn this an analogy to the social state of former slaves was established, who were regularly forced to remain barefoot as well (see above). Two sisters, Lucy and Susan Letcher, hiked approximately two-thirds of the Appalachian Trail barefoot from June 21, 2000, to October 3, 2001. On November 12, 2010, 2,500 people in Mahabubnagar, India, participated in a barefoot walk, which was recognized by \"Guinness World Records\" as the world's largest.\n\nIn European nations, including Austria, Denmark, France, Germany, Hungary, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom, there are barefoot parks or walks. These parks are kept clean and maintained on a regular basis, so that barefoot hiking can be done in an environment suitable for people who are habitually shod. Barefoot parks usually include a lot of adventure stations, allowing visitors to experience the feeling of soil textures underfoot; to wade through rivers, mud, brooks, or ponds; and to exercise foot gymnastics, balancing, and climbing. The \"Barfußpfad\" (barefoot trail) at Bad Sobernheim in Germany attracts over 100,000 visitors annually and has seen approximately 1 million visitors since its inception in 1999.\n\nThis concept was first developed in the 19th century by Sebastian Kneipp, one of the founders of the Naturopathic medicine movement. He believed that applying your feet to a range of natural stimuli would have therapeutic benefits. This is related to the ancient practice of reflexology, practiced in China for thousands of years for relaxation and to promote longevity.\n\nSeoul, South Korea, has 158 barefoot parks, allowing people to relax in a natural environment.\n\nMany leisure and competitive runners have been known to run barefoot, including well-known athletes Zola Budd of South Africa and Abebe Bikila of Ethiopia. Todd Ragsdale, of Talent, Oregon, set the world record (pending confirmation by \"Guinness World Records\") for the longest distance run barefoot on June 5, 2010, as part of the Relay for Life fundraiser for the American Cancer Society. He logged , or 413 laps on the South Medford High School track, barefoot. The fastest person to run 100 meters (325 feet) on ice while barefoot is Nico Surings of Eindhoven, Netherlands, who ran that distance in 17.35 seconds on December 8, 2006. Laboratory studies suggest that, due to the lack of extra weight on the feet, the energy cost of running barefoot is reduced by 4%, resulting in lower oxygen consumption. There is evidence that wearing traditional shoes while running leads to heel strike gait that, in turn, leads to higher impact as well as a greater risk of injury. Barefoot running encourages the runner to switch to forefoot strike and may reduce the risk of knee damage.\n\nBarefoot running can be dangerous, especially to runners who do not adequately prepare or give their feet time to adapt to the new style. Many injuries are possible, such as injuries to the Achilles tendon or plantar fascia, or stress fractures in the metatarsal bones or lower leg. Barefoot runners who do not prepare their bodies could provide, \"a stimulus plan for podiatrists, orthopedists, and physical therapists.\"\n\nThe official position on barefoot running by the American Podiatric Medical Association states that there is not enough research on the immediate- and long-term benefits of the practice and that individuals should consult a podiatrist with a strong background in sports medicine to make an informed decision on all aspects of their running and training programs.\n\nOne alternative to barefoot running is to wear thin-soled shoes with minimal padding, such as moccasins, plimsolls, or huaraches, which result in similar gait to going barefoot but protect the skin and keep dirt and water off. Some modern shoe manufacturers have recently designed footwear to maintain optimum flexibility while providing a minimum amount of protection. Such shoes include the shoes made by Vibram FiveFingers, Vivobarefoot, and Nike's Nike Free shoes. Sales of minimalist running shoes have grown into a $1.7 billion industry. Sales of Vibram FiveFingers alone grew from $450,000 in 2006 to $50 million in 2011.\n\nBarefoot skiing originated in Winter Haven, Florida, in 1947, when slalom skier A.G. Hancock tried to step off his ski. The same year, in Cypress Gardens, Florida, competitive skier Richard Downing Pope, Jr., became well known in the sport of barefoot skiing. The first barefoot skiing competition was held three years later, at the 1950 Cypress Gardens Dixie Championships. In 1978, skiers from ten nations competed in the first World Barefoot Championships in Canberra, Australia. The same year, the American Barefoot Club (ABC) was formed, which governs competitive barefoot skiing events in the United States.\n\nEarly skateboarders rode barefoot, preferring foot-to-board contact and emulating surfing moves. The plastic penny board is intended to be ridden barefoot, and Penny Skateboards have promoted the riding of the board barefoot by selling T-shirts and stickers. They have also posted social media posts encouraging barefoot riding, particularly in summer. The Hamboard, a surfboard style board, is also intended to be ridden barefoot.\nBarefoot skateboarding has been witnessing a revival in recent times. Many modern skateboarders skate barefoot, especially in summer and in warmer countries like Australia, South Africa, and parts of South America.\n\n"}
{"id": "60001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=60001", "title": "Bassist", "text": "Bassist\n\nA bassist or bass player, is a musician who plays a bass instrument such as a double bass, bass guitar, keyboard bass or a low brass instrument such as a tuba or sousaphone. Different musical genres tend to be associated with one or more of these instruments. Since the 1960s, the electric bass has been the standard bass instrument for funk, R&B, soul music, rock and roll, reggae, jazz fusion, heavy metal, country and pop music. The double bass is the standard bass instrument for classical music, bluegrass, rockabilly, and most genres of jazz. Low brass instruments such as the tuba or sousaphone are the standard bass instrument in Dixieland and New Orleans-style jazz bands.\n\nDespite the associations of different bass instruments with certain genres, there are exceptions. Some 1990s and 2000s rock and pop bands use a double bass, such as both Andrew Jackson Jihad, Barenaked Ladies; Indie band The Decemberists and punk rock, psychobilly groups such as The Living End, Nekromantix, The Horrorpops and Tiger Army. Some fusion jazz groups use a lightweight, stripped-down electric upright bass rather than a double bass. Some composers of modern art music use the electric bass in a chamber music setting. Some jazz big bands use electric bass. Some funk, R&B and jazz, fusion groups use synth bass or keyboard bass rather than electric bass. Bootsy Collins and Stevie Wonder used synth bass. Some Dixieland bands use double bass or electric bass instead of a tuba. In some jazz groups and jam bands, the basslines are played by a Hammond organ player, who uses the bass pedal keyboard or the lower manual for the low notes.\n\nElectric bassists play the bass guitar. In most rock, pop, metal and country genres, the bass line outlines the harmony of the music being performed, while simultaneously indicating the rhythmic pulse. In addition, there are many different standard bass line types for different genres and types of song (e.g. blues ballad, fast swing, etc.). Bass lines often emphasize the root note, with a secondary role for the third, and fifth of each chord being used in a given song. In addition, pedal tones (repeated or sustained single notes), ostinatos, and bass riffs are also used as bass lines. While most electric bass players rarely play chords (three or more notes all sounded at the same time), chords are used in some styles, especially funk, R&B, soul music, jazz, Latin and heavy metal music.\n\nA short list of notable bassists includes: \n\n\nFor a long list, see the List of contemporary classical double bass players.\n\nA shortlist of notable double bass players includes:\n\nFor a long list, see the List of jazz bassists, which includes both double bass and electric bass players.\n\nA shortlist of notable jazz bassists includes:\n\n\nFor a longer list, see the List of double bassists in popular music, which includes blues, folk, country, etc.\n\nA shortlist of the notable bassists in these genres includes:\n\n"}
{"id": "2456307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2456307", "title": "Bill Henson", "text": "Bill Henson\n\nBill Henson (born 7 October 1955) is an Australian contemporary art photographer.\n\nHenson has exhibited nationally and internationally in galleries such as the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York, the Venice Biennale, the National Gallery of Victoria in Melbourne, Australia, the Art Gallery of New South Wales in Sydney, Australia and the Bibliothèque Nationale in Paris. His current practice involves holding one exhibition in Australia every two years, and up to three overseas exhibitions each year.\n\nThe use of chiaroscuro is common throughout his works, through underexposure and adjustment in printing. His photographs' use of bokeh is intended to give them a painterly atmosphere. The work is often presented as diptychs, triptychs and in other groupings, and the exhibitions are specifically curated by Henson to reflect a sense of musicality.\n\nDuality is a recurring theme of Henson's work, often in combination with adolescent subjects. He frequently employs a flattened perspective through the use of telephoto lenses. His works are often in the form of staged tableaux in which faces of the subjects are often blurred or partly shadowed and do not directly face the viewer.\n\nHenson states that he is not interested in a political or sociological agenda.\n\nRaised in the Eastern suburbs of Melbourne, Henson studied Visual Arts and Design 1974–1975 at Prahran College of Advanced Education where Athol Shmith was head of the Photography program and John Cato and Paul Cox were lecturers. He did not complete the diploma, but the nineteen-year-old Henson's work was promoted by Shmith to Jennie Boddington, inaugural Curator of Photography at the National Gallery of Victoria with the result that Henson's first solo show was exhibited there in 1975.\n\nFrom his period as a student until its closure in 1980, he worked at The Bookshop of Margareta Webber 343 Little Collins Street Melbourne, which specialised in luxurious books on ballet, dance and the visual arts. Leaving the bookshop, he traveled and photographed in Eastern Europe. He taught briefly at the Victorian College of the Arts in Melbourne. Henson's long-term relationship with Luminist Melbourne painter Louise Hearman, whom he met in 1981 at the Victorian College of Arts, has been noted as mutually influential on their art. Hearman won the 2014 Moran portrait prize, Australia's richest at $A150,000, with her double portrait of Bill Henson.\n\nOn 22 May 2008, the opening night of Bill Henson's 2007–2008 exhibition at the Roslyn Oxley9 Gallery in Paddington, Sydney, was canceled after eight individual complaints were made to Police voicing concerns about an email invitation from the Gallery to a \"Private View\" that depicted photographs of a nude 13-year-old girl. Hetty Johnston, a child protection advocate also lodged a complaint with the New South Wales police.\nOn the same day a \"Sydney Morning Herald\" columnist, Miranda Devine, had also written a scathing article in response to viewing the email invitation, which precipitated heated talk-back and media discussion throughout the day. In the process of removing the images from the Gallery, Police found more photographs of naked children on exhibition among various large format photographs of nonfigurative subjects, which they later sought to examine for the purposes of determining their legal status under the NSW Crimes Act and child protection legislation. Following discussions with the Gallery and a decision by Henson, the Gallery canceled the opening and postponed the show.\n\nIt was announced on 23 May that a number of the images in the exhibition had been seized by police local Area Commander Alan Sicard, with the intention of charging Bill Henson, the Gallery, or both with \"publishing an indecent article\" under the Crimes Act. The seized images were also removed from the Roslyn Oxley9 Gallery website, where the remainder of the series can now be viewed online.\n\nThe situation provoked a national debate on censorship. In a televised interview, Prime Minister Kevin Rudd stated that he found the images \"absolutely revolting\" and that they had \"no artistic merit\". These views swiftly drew censure from members of the 'creative stream' who attended the recent 2020 Summit convened by Rudd, led by actress Cate Blanchett.\n\nOn 5 June 2008 the former director of the National Gallery of Australia, Betty Churcher, said it was \"not surprising\" that the New South Wales Department of Public Prosecutions (DPP) would announce its official recommendation that no charges be laid regarding the Sydney Roslyn Oxley9 gallery's collection of photographs by artist Bill Henson. Ms Churcher said it would have been ridiculous to drag the case through the courts: \n\nOn 6 June 2008 it was reported in \"The Age\" that police would not prosecute Bill Henson over his photographs of naked teenagers, after they were declared \"mild and justified\" and given a PG rating by the Australian Classification Board, suggesting viewing by children under the age of 16 is suitable with parental guidance.\n\nAustralian scholar Niall Lucy criticized Devine's response to Henson's art in his 2010 book \"Pomo Oz: Fear and Loathing Down Under\". David Marr's book about the 2008 incident \"The Henson case\" was listed for the 2009 Victorian Premier's Literary Award and the 2009 Prime Minister's Literary Awards.\n\nOn 4 October 2008, Henson became the center of controversy again after it was revealed in extracts of \"The Henson case\" that in 2007 he visited St Kilda Park Primary School to pick out potential models for his artwork. Henson was allowed entry into the school and escorted by principal Sue Knight around the school grounds and picked two children he thought would be suitable – one child, a boy, was later photographed after his parents were approached by the school on behalf of the artist.\n\nAn investigation into the matter was launched by the Department of Education on 6 October 2008. The investigation found that the principal had complied with departmental policy, and had no case to answer.\n\nA few of his exhibitions:\n\n1975\n1981\n1985\n1989\n1990\n1993\n1998\n2004\n2006\n2008\n2010\n2011\n2012\n2013\n\nMajor monographs on the artist's work:\n\n"}
{"id": "51512448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51512448", "title": "Building typology", "text": "Building typology\n\nBuilding typology refers to the study and documentation of a set of buildings which have similarities in their type of function or form. There are two ways of looking at the term \"building typology\". The first is a functional typology that categorizes buildings into groups by the similarity of their use. A functional building typology under this definition may create groups such as hospitals, schools, and shopping centers (see more examples in the list of building types by use). The second is a typology that groups buildings according to their forms, which is explained is this article. Formal building typology may be based on configuration, format, or relationships of building to streets and each other. Any single functional type can be subdivided into formal types. For example, the residential functional type may be further subdivided into formal categories such as high rise towers, single family homes, duplexes, and townhouses. The townhouse building is one formal type that has a specific configuration: single units are placed side-by-side with others, vertically oriented up to four stories tall, and facing the street. Many more variations of this formal type are found around the world, each with variations that are the result of local materials, cultural habits, age and technology. Documenting a type is the process of discovering the elements of similar forms which are the same. Usually building types are distinguished by their basic form, site configuration, and scale, but not their specific architectural style, color, or even precise use.and are related to the era, the culture, and the environment in which they arise.\n\nThe idea of autonomous building types arose in part from the general Enlightenment notion of categorization, a prelude to scientific discovery. At first types were intended as ideal models, which could be variously copied. In this sense types were commonly used forms (a basilica, for example), that were adapted over time in new buildings with quite different uses: from Roman fora to early church forms (St. Peter's Basilica), to 19th century train stations. The fact that these forms are very similar and are derived from each other is an important way of understanding typology: types are evolved over time and therefor can convey a sense of history or cultural continuity. The idea of building types as formal configurations was enhanced by J.N.L. Durand, who developed two important works, the \"Parallele (1799)\", a huge, handsome book that reproduced plans, elevations and sections of historic buildings at the same scale. He categorized them by formal types, so that their basic similarities could be recognized. Following this work, Durand also created a second book that manipulated and reconfigured the classical elements of architecture—columns, walls, etc. in order to adapt them to new, emerging uses. Durand's system, a language of architecture, demonstrated one essential characteristic of types: a way of designing that was neither entirely free of constraint nor overly prescribed.\n\nMost buildings of any city can be recognized as belonging to a building type. In the US, for example, several residential types exist, such as garden apartments, townhouses, and high rise housing. Each of these may have many subtypes: even within one part of a city there may appear two or three predominant residential types such as a small post-WWII house or a strongly horizontal ranch house. Anyone can begin to identify types simply by observing the common buildings in a place. Architectural and urban designers document types more thoroughly, by measuring them, dating them, noting similar changes to the type that arise over time, and identifying their recurring locations in the city.\n\nBuilding types are critical to architects because they are a starting point for designing. One need not reinvent the form if a common building type, say an office building, is wanted. Most architects develop a sense of common building types over time, even without acknowledging their importance. Architects know the approximate dimensions, bulk, site placement, and internal circulation that dictates most types. This allows them to work quickly to determine the parts of the design problem which are unique: material, orientation, structure, specific dimensions, entrance, and so on. One school of thought in Italy, started by Saverio Muratori, recognizes the importance of typology in providing continuity in the city. These architects have been influential in recognizing the role of type for modern architecture, where the newest buildings are encouraged to actively assimilate many typological characteristics, without imitating historical styles. \n\nHistorians, anthropologists, and architectural historians use the documentation of type as a key to other characteristics in a city, for example events, political control, or economic changes. As theory tells us, when a type evolves over a period of time, this is an indication that conditions in the city have changed. Anne Moudon documents changes in the types of an Alamo Square neighborhood to tell a kind architectural, cultural and economic history. She also identifies the block, lot and street pattern as key to typological continuity. Multiple studies using this method have identified important building types, for example Chinese shophouses, Shanghai's Shikumen housing, terrace housing in Great Britain, Courtyard buildings in France, and the atrium houses found in many hot climates. Atrium types are also important for mosques, shopping malls, and some hotels.\n\nCommon types are the building blocks of the city. Usually, a neighborhood streets and lots are laid out so that the common type can be built there. This occurs today in suburban subdivisions, but it has been a pattern in history, as well. This combination of types, streets and lots is called an urban tissue, or a plan unit. When studying a city, a designer identifies the common tissue patterns in place and may decide to link to them, imitate them, or otherwise recognize them as an historical artifact. A movement of urban theorists and practitioners in the US, New Urbanism, has identified building typology as a key to defining more user-friendly places. In trying to preserve neighborhoods or building new ones, building types once again become the building blocks of the city, and may be codified in law as form-based codes.\n"}
{"id": "3175584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3175584", "title": "Cerruti", "text": "Cerruti\n\nCerruti is a fashion house founded in 1967 in Paris by the Italian stylist and fashion designer Nino Cerruti.\n\nCerruti designs, manufactures, distributes, and retails luxury ready-to-wear, jeans, fragrances, sportswear, leather goods, watches, and accessories. The brand markets these products under two different labels \"Cerruti 1881\" and \" 18CRR81 Cerruti.\"\n\nIn 1967, the Cerruti label was officially launched with the opening of the flagship store and headquarters, at 3 Place de la Madeleine in Paris, France.\n\nThe company was the property of the American firm MatlinPatterson Global Advisors from August 2006 until 2010. Since December 2010, the company is owned by Trinity Ltd (Li & Fung Group).\n\nIn 1881, the grandfather of Nino Cerruti founded the textile mill \"Lanificio Fratelli Cerruti\". Located in Biella (Piemonte, Italy) the water in the region is put to use to wash and treat the wool, which is imported principally from Australia and South Africa, so as to develop flannel, tweeds, cashmere, and butter muslin. Nino Cerruti took over the family business after his father's death in 1950.\n\nCerruti fabrics are still produced in the same workshops.\n\nThe Cerruti label was launched in 1967 with a menswear collection. In 1976, the line 'Cerruti Woman' was created. Before creating his own brand in 1974, Giorgio Armani had worked in Paris under Cerruti.\n\nIn 1978, the house launched its first fragrance with \"Nino Cerruti pour Homme\", followed by numerous other fragrances for both men and women such as \"Fair Play\" in 1985, \"Cerruti 1881 pour Homme\" in 1990, \"Cerruti Image\" in 1998 and \"l'Essence de Cerruti\" in 2008.\n\nIn the 1980s, Cerruti began producing clothes for films, including \"Bonnie and Clyde\", \"Pretty Woman\", \"Basic Instinct\", and \"American Psycho\". The brand designed clothes for actors such as Michael Douglas, Jack Nicholson, Tom Hanks, Bruce Willis, Sharon Stone, Robert Redford, Harrison Ford, Al Pacino and Jean Paul Belmondo. Nino Cerruti had cameo appearances in the following Hollywood movies: \"Holy Man\" (1998), \"Catwalk\" (1996) and \"Cannes Man\" (1996).\n\nIn 1994, Cerruti was the official designer of the famous Scuderia Ferrari.\n\nIn October 2000, Nino Cerruti sold his brand to Italian investors and get back to the family business of his grandfather, \"Lanificio Fratelli Cerruti, dal 1881\".\n\nToday, the Cerruti brand includes ready-to-wear, jeans, sportswear, fragrances, leather goods, watches, sunglasses, and other accessories like writing instruments.\n\nThe Cerruti global flagship store is in Paris at 27 Rue Royale. There are Cerruti 1881 and 18CRR81 stores in Milan, Cosenza, Madrid, Prague, Kiev, Marbella, Athens, Dubai, Riyadh, St. Petersburg, Hong Kong, Jakarta, Tehran and Tokyo among other locations. In addition, the label is sold through some 1,500 vendors.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7228219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7228219", "title": "Charles Edenshaw", "text": "Charles Edenshaw\n\nCharles Edenshaw (ca. 1839–1920) was a Haida artist from Haida Gwaii, British Columbia, Canada. He is known for his woodcarving, argillite carving, jewellery, and painting.\n\nEdensew (the name also spelled Edensaw, or Edenso from the Haida chiefly name \"Idɨnsaw\") was born at the Haida village of Skidegate, on Haida Gwaii, located 27 miles off of the coast of British Columbia Canada. His father was K'łajangk'una of the Nikwən Qiwe lineage of the Raven moiety. His mother, whose lineage identity he followed in the Haida matrilineal system, was Qawkúna (later Mrs. John Robson) of the Eagle moiety's Sdəłdás lineage, of which Charles eventually became chief. He spent his early years at Kiusta and Yatza in the northwestern Charlottes, i.e. the Queen Charlotte Islands (Haida Gwaii). His Haida name was \"Da.a xiigang\" or Tahaygen, alternatively spelled Tahayren and Tahayghen. He learned from his uncle, the Eagle chief Albert Edward Edenshaw. In 1884 he was baptised with his English name, which derived from Scotland's Bonnie Prince Charlie.\n\nIn addition to the chiefly name Idɨnsaw, he also held the titles Skɨl'wxan jas (\"Fairies Coming to You as in a Big Wave\"), Dahʼégɨn (\"Noise in the Housepit\"), Nəngkwigetklałs (\"They Gave Ten Potlatches for Him\").\n\nHe produced many commissioned works, including for the American Museum of Natural History. His work is in many museum collections, and he served as consultant to many anthropologists. His works include bentwood boxes, rattles, masks, totem poles, and staffs, and he worked in wood, argillite, gold, and silver. His work was collected by the anthropologists Franz Boas and John R. Swanton.\n\nHe is specifically credited for advancing gold and silver engraving in traditional formline design.\n\nEdenshaw's marriage to Isabella Edenshaw (Yahgujanaas) was part of a long pattern of intermarriage between these two prominent Haida lineages. Together they parented four daughters (in chronological order): Emily (White), Agnus (Yeltatzie), Florence (Davidson), and Nora (Cogo).\n\nThrough his daughter Emily, Edenshaw is great-grandfather to the contemporary artists Michael Nicoll Yahgulanaas, Jim Hart and Lisa Hageman Yahgulanaas and great-great grandfather to many Haida artists. Edenshaw's daughter was the matriarch Florence Davidson, and is great grandfather to internationally renowned artists Robert Davidson, and Reg Davidson, and through Florence, he is grandfather to her daughter, the weaving artist Primrose Adams, great-grandfather to her daughter the weaving artist Isabel Rorick.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57225457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57225457", "title": "Cultural legacy of Mazeppa", "text": "Cultural legacy of Mazeppa\n\n\nIvan Mazepa (1639–1709) was a significant figure in the history of Ukraine. One story about him says that as a young man, he was caught \"in flagrante\" with a noblewoman, whose husband punished him by tying him naked to a wild horse and setting them free; eventually he reached the Cossacks and became their military leader. This caught the attention of the English poet Lord Byron (\"mad, bad, and dangerous to know\"), whose \"Mazeppa\" (1819) brought the events to wider attention. His narrative poem inspired many paintings, particularly by French Romantics, which in turn stimulated musical compositions, stage plays, more poems, and so on. New life was breathed into the equestrian tale when it was transposed to the American Wild West.\n\nMazepa served as Hetman of Zaporizhian Host in 1687–1708. He played an important role in the Battle of Poltava (1709), where after learning that the Russian Tsar, Peter the Great, intended to replace him with Alexander Menshikov, he deserted his army and sided with King Charles XII of Sweden. The political consequences and interpretation of this desertion have resonated in the national histories both of Russia and of Ukraine. The alienation of Mazepa from Ukrainian historiography continued during the Soviet period, but post-1991 in independent Ukraine there have been strong moves to rehabilitate Mazepa's image, although he remains a controversial figure.\n\nLord Byron published his narrative poem in 1819. According to the poem, the young Mazeppa has a love affair with a Polish Countess Theresa while serving as a page at the Court of King John II Casimir Vasa. Countess Theresa was married to a much older Count. On discovering the affair, the Count punishes Mazeppa by tying him naked to a wild horse and setting the horse loose. The bulk of the poem describes the traumatic journey of the hero strapped to the horse. The poem has been praised for its \"vigor of style and its sharp realization of the feelings of suffering and endurance\".\n\nThere is no historical evidence to support that Mazepa was exiled from Poland because of a love affair, or that he was punished by being strapped to a wild horse. However, this colorful legend was in circulation before Byron published his poem. Voltaire repeats it in \"History of Charles XII, King of Sweden\" (1731). This appears to have been Byron's main source for his poem: his 'Advertisement' to the poem includes three long quotations from this work. Several critics have also speculated that Byron was familiar with the \"Mémoires d'Azéma\" (1764) by the French writer André Guillaume Contant Dorville, as there are significant similarities between the plot of that novel and of Byron's poem.\n\nByron's poem was both popular and influential in the Romantic period. Horses in art had long been a popular theme, so when the poem was translated into French the same year by Amédée Pichot, a wave of French painters decided to depict Mazeppa's \"wild ride\", including Théodore Géricault (1823, now held in the Metropolitan Museum of Art), Eugène Delacroix (1824, Finnish National Gallery), Horace Vernet (1826, Musée Calvet in Avignon), and Louis Boulanger (1827, the Musée des Beaux-Arts de Rouen). Boulanger's \"The Ordeal of Mazeppa\" and Vernet's \"Mazeppa and the Wolves\" both competed in the Salon of 1827.\n\nA theatrical version of the story soon appeared: a show called \"Mazeppa, or the Tartar Horse\" premiered at Antonio Franconi's Cirque Olympique in Paris in 1825. This was copied in both the USA and England. Aleksandr Pushkin wrote a poem-response to Byron entitled \"Poltava\" (1828–29), which opens with an epigraph from the Englishman's poem, and in which he portrays Mazeppa as a villain who betrayed Russians.\n\nVictor Hugo was inspired by the French Romantic paintings to compose \"Mazeppa\", one of the major pieces in \"Les Orientales\" (1829), which he dedicated to Boulanger. The first part of his poem describes Mazeppa's run across Ukrainian plains. The second part compares Mazeppa to a poet banned from the living world because of his eccentricities, the banned poet is attached to the wild horse of his inspiration. The comparison to the poet ends by saying that this crazy trip through suffering finally gives success and glory to the poet.\n\nThe playwright Henry M. Milner wrote \"Mazeppa; or, The wild horse of Tartary. A romantic drama, in three acts. Dramatised from Lord Byron's poem by H.M. Milner, and adapted to the stage under the direction of Mr. Ducrow.\" (This was Andrew Ducrow, the \"Father of British circus equestrianism\" and proprietor of Astley's Amphitheatre.) It appeared in London in 1831. Over the next several years it toured the US, until \"at one point, five different productions of the play were showing in San Francisco\".\n\nJohn Frederick Herring Sr., an Englishman who started out as a stagecoach driver, painted several versions of the story: two are \"after Horace Vernet\" (circa 1833, Tate and in 1842 \"MAZEPPA\". In 1846, the American lithographer Nathaniel Currier, of Currier and Ives, prepared four plates, with Byronic quotations; the artworks are now at Bridgeman Art Library.\n\nJuliusz Słowacki, a major figure in the Polish Romantic period, wrote a play entitled \"Mazeppa\" (1840). Although he is now considered the father of modern Polish drama, it was the only one of his dramas that was put on stage during his lifetime. James Malcolm Rymer, a British writer of penny dreadfuls, wrote \"Mazeppa; or, The Wild Horse of the Ukraine: A Romance\" (1850).\n\nMusicians were also inspired. Carl Loewe composed a tone-poem. A generation after Hugo published his poem, it became the literary inspiration for a symphonic poem (1851) and a Transcendental Étude (1852) by Franz Liszt. Another French Romantic painter, Théodore Chassériau, re-interpreted Byron's poem, with \"Cossack girl at Mazeppa 's body\" (1851, Musée des Beaux-Arts de Strasbourg). The Irishman Michael William Balfe composed a cantata known as \"The Page\" or \"Mazeppa\" in 1861.\n\nMilner's play was adapted and burlesqued over the decades. For example, in 1856 it was re-written as an equestrian burlesque in two acts, by blackface minstrel entertainer Charles \"Charlie\" White. The main antagonist is Castiron, and his daughter is Olinska. The Mazeppa story became \"a well-worn melodrama in dire need of revitalization\", which it received from the performer Adah Isaacs Menken. Other women had played Mazeppa, including Charlotte Cushman, but Menken's interpretation -- \"sexing up\" the part, scandalously performing the nude scene clad only in a flesh-colored bodystocking—really caught the public imagination. Many other female Mazeppas followed, as did a new wave of burlesques. \"Mazeppa\" was very popular during the American Civil War and became the most widely performed drama in the American west from the 1860s until the turn of the century, and was also popular in London.\n\nAgnes Thatcher Lake, a circus performer and equestrian all her life, took a production of \"Mazeppa\" to Europe in 1865, performing before Prince Karl of Prussia. She then took her production across the United States, the only circus to do so, performing under her company's big top tents in towns and cities without a theatre big enough to host a stage show. A 2009 biography of Lake (who later married Wild Bill Hickok) estimates that two million Americans saw her athletic interpretation of Mazeppa, many more than saw Menken's sexualised one .\n\nIn 1877, Albert Aiken wrote a dime novel called \"The Indian Mazeppa or The Madman of the Plains\", in which the myth is transposed to the Wild West.\n\nPushkin's poem became the subject of an opera entitled \"Mazeppa\", written between 1881 and 1883, with three acts and six scenes. The music is by Tchaikovsky and the libretto by Victor Burenin. It is set in Ukraine in the 18th century, and is a story about love, abduction, political persecution and vengeful murder.\n\nIn 1910, Francis Boggs produced a short film based on the stage play of Byron's poem titled \"Mazeppa or the Wild horse of Tartary\".\n\nIn 1991, Ukraine declared independence, and Mazeppa rose again in international consciousness. A French drama film titled \"Mazeppa\", based loosely on the lives of the painter Géricault and the equestrian Franconi, won a prize at the 1993 Cannes Film Festival. Gericault decided to stay and live with the circus and painted only horses to try and understand the mystery of this animal; Mazeppa embodies a man carried away by his passion.\n\nA Ukrainian film by Yuri Ilyenko loosely based on historical facts, called \"A Prayer for Hetman Mazepa\" was released in 2002.\n\nA South African interpretation of the Mazepa-Mazeppa motif describes it as \"Romantic Phaethon\" (a character in Greek mythology who drove the sun-chariot too recklessly) and points to its appeal to Modernist poets such as Bertol Brecht and Roy Campbell.\n"}
{"id": "43390516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43390516", "title": "Databending", "text": "Databending\n\nDatabending (or data bending) is the process of manipulating a media file of a certain format, using software designed to edit files of another format. Distortions in the medium typically occur as a result, and the process either falls under a broader category of, or is frequently employed in glitch art.\n\nThe term \"databending\" is derived from circuit bending, in which objects such as children's toys, effects pedals and electronic keyboards are deliberately short circuited by bending the circuit board to produce erratic and spontaneous sounds. Like circuit bending, databending involves the (often unpredictable) alteration of its target's behavior. Databending achieves this alteration by manipulating the information within a media file of a certain format, using software designed to edit files of a different format; distortions in the medium typically occur as a result. \n\nMany techniques exist, including the use of hex editors to manipulate certain components of a compression algorithm, to comparatively simple methods. Michael Betancourt has posed a short set of instructions, included in the \"Signal Culture Cookbook,\" that involves the direct manipulation of the digital file using a hexadecimal editing program. One such method involves the addition of audio effects through audio editing software to distort raw data interpretations of image files. Some effects produce optical analogues: adding an echo filter duplicated elements of a photo, and inversion contributed to the flipping over of an image. The similarities result from the waveforms corresponding with the layers of pixels in a linear fashion, ordered from top to bottom. Another method, dubbed \"the WordPad effect\", uses the program WordPad to manipulate images through converting the raw data to the Rich Text Format.\n\nAccording to the artist Benjamin Berg, different techniques of the process can be grouped into three categories:\nThe \"WordPad effect\" would fall under \"incorrect editing\", while \"reinterpretation\" contains a subcategory called \"sonification\", in which data other than audio is introduced simultaneously with musical audio data. The last technique is the hardest of the three to accomplish, often yielding highly unpredictable results.\n\nDatabending is frequently employed in glitch art, and is considered a sub-category of the genre. The \"sonification\" technique is commonly used by glitch musicians such as Alva Noto. Ahuja and Lu summarized the process through a quote by Adam Clark Estes of \"Gizmodo\" as \"the internet's code-heavy version of graffiti.\" Various groups on Flickr explore the effects of databending on imagery; an Internet bot named \"GlitchBot\" was created to scrape Creative Commons-licensed imagery and apply the process and upload the results. Users on Vimeo who deal explicitly with databending and glitch art in general exist, and a Chicago-based digital art project named GLI.TC/H was funded using Kickstarter in 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1503265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1503265", "title": "Derrynaflan Chalice", "text": "Derrynaflan Chalice\n\nThe Derrynaflan Chalice is an 8th- or 9th-century chalice, that was found as part of the \"Derrynaflan Hoard\" of five liturgical vessels. The discovery was made on 17 February 1980 near Killenaule, County Tipperary in Ireland. According to art historian Michael Ryan the hoard \"represents the most complex and sumptuous expression of the ecclesiastical art-style of early-medieval Ireland as we know it in its eighth- and ninth-century maturity.\" The area known as Derrynaflan is an island of pastureland surrounded by bogland, which was the site of an early Irish abbey. The chalice was found with a composite silver paten, a hoop that may have been a stand for the paten, a liturgical strainer and a bronze basin inverted over the other objects. The group is among the most important surviving examples of Insular metalwork. It was donated to the Irish State and the items are now on display in the National Museum of Ireland.\n\nThe hoard was probably secreted during the turbulent 10th to 12th centuries, when Viking raids and dynastic turmoil created many occasions when valuables were hidden. The early and later 10th century is marked by a particular concentration of hoarding in Ireland.\n\nDerrynaflan is a small island of dry land situated in a surrounding area of peat bogs, in the townland of Lurgoe, Co. Tipperary, northeast of Cashel. The monastery was an important foundation in the period preceding the Viking raids; the present modest ruins of a small Cistercian nave-and-chancel abbey church there, however, date from a later period.\n\nThe Derrynaflan Hoard was discovered on 17 February 1980 by Michael Webb from Clonmel and his son, also Michael, while they were exploring the ancient monastic site of Derrynaflan with a metal detector. They had the implied permission of the owners of the land on which the ruins stood to visit the site but they had no permission to dig on the lands. A preservation order had been made in respect of the ruin under the National Monuments Act, 1930, so that it was an offence to injure or to interfere with the site. The discovery was initially kept secret for three weeks.\nThe behaviour of the Webbs, and nearly seven years of litigation, culminating in the Supreme Court action where they unsuccessfully sought over £5,000,000 for the find, led to the replacement of Irish laws of treasure trove by the law in the National Monuments (Amendment) Act, 1994, with a new Section 2 being included in the legislation.\n\nThe Ardagh Chalice dates from around the same period, perhaps a century earlier, of the Derrynaflan Hoard and was found close by in neighbouring County Limerick. At the time, the ruling dynasty in Tipperary and most of Munster were the Eóganachta, while their longtime allies and possible cousins the Uí Fidgenti ruled in the Limerick area. Feidlimid mac Cremthanin, king-bishop of Cashel, who became King of Munster in 821 and died in 847, was a patron of the monastic foundation at Derrynaflan and has been suggested as a possible patron of the chalice.\n\nAs a masterpiece of Insular art, the Derrynaflan chalice was included in the exhibition \"The Work of Angels: Masterpieces of Celtic Metalwork, 6th–9th Centuries AD\" (London, 1989, included in the catalogue).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "581467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=581467", "title": "Diacritics (journal)", "text": "Diacritics (journal)\n\nDiacritics is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal established in 1971 at Cornell University and published by the Johns Hopkins University Press. Articles serve to review recent literature in the field of literary criticism, and have covered topics in gender studies, political theory, psychoanalysis, queer theory, and other areas. The editor-in-chief is Karen Pinkus (Cornell University).\n"}
{"id": "53418871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53418871", "title": "Fearless Girl", "text": "Fearless Girl\n\nFearless Girl is a bronze sculpture by Kristen Visbal, commissioned by State Street Global Advisors (SSgA) via McCann New York. It depicts a girl who, as originally installed, faced the \"Charging Bull\" (or \"Wall Street Bull\") statue, It was removed in November 2018 in preparation for relocation to in front of the New York Stock Exchange. A plaque with footprints was placed on the original site of \"Fearless Girl\". \n\n\"Fearless Girl\" was commissioned to advertise for an index fund that comprises gender-diverse companies that have a relatively high percentage of women among their senior leadership. The plaque below the statue states: \"Know the power of women in leadership. SHE makes a difference,\" with \"SHE\" being both a descriptive pronoun and the fund's NASDAQ ticker symbol. The statue was originally installed on March 7, 2017, at Bowling Green in the Financial District of Manhattan, New York City.\n\n\"Fearless Girl\", which measures approximately tall and weighs about , faced \"Charging Bull\", a much larger and heavier bronze statue that is tall and weighs . Both are located in Manhattan's Bowling Green, at the intersection of Broadway and Whitehall Street.\n\n\"Fearless Girl\" is meant to \"send a message\" about workplace gender diversity and encourage companies to recruit women to their boards. The plaque below the statue states: \"Know the power of women in leadership. SHE makes a difference,\" with SHE referring to both the gender of the subject and the fund's NASDAQ ticker symbol.\n\nThe commission by State Street Global Advisors specified that the statue should depict a girl with hands on her hips and chin up, with a height of 36 inches, which Kristen Visbal and her collaborators then increased to 50 inches, to better match the size of \"Charging Bull\". Still, Visbal commented that \"I made sure to keep her features soft; she's not defiant, she's brave, proud, and strong, not belligerent\". She modeled the sculpture on two children, but many of the distinguishing features were removed so that it would be universally appealing. A child who would represent all children \"so everyone could relate to the Fearless Girl.\"\n\nThe statue was installed on March 7, 2017—the day before International Women's Day—by State Street Global Advisors, in a campaign developed by advertising agency McCann New York. SSgA was celebrating the first anniversary of its \"Gender Diversity Index\" fund that \"invests in U.S. large-capitalization companies that rank among the highest in their sector in achieving gender diversity across senior leadership\". The concept for the statue was developed by Senior Art Director Lizzie Wilson and Senior Copywriter Tali Gumbiner. Wilson and Gumbiner established both the idea for the statue as well as the overall look of the girl using countless moodboards and imagery, which Visbal referenced.\n\n\"Fearless Girl\" was originally given a one-week City Hall permit that was later extended to 30 days. Later, it was announced that the statue would remain in place through February 2018. Among those advocating for the statue to stay longer was U.S. Representative Carolyn Maloney of New York's 12th congressional district, who stated, \"This statue has touched hearts across the world with its symbolism of the resiliency of women.\" New York City Public Advocate Letitia James wrote a letter that supported keeping the statue, \"Fearless Girl stands as a powerful beacon, showing women—young and old—that no dream is too big and no ceiling is too high\".\n\nA petition on Change.org asking for the statue to be made permanent gathered 2,500 signatures in its first 48 hours. Efforts to make the statue permanent continued after the statue was granted a one-year permit. In April 2018, after \"Fearless Girl\" had been in place for thirteen months, New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio announced that both \"Charging Bull\" and \"Fearless Girl\" would be moved to a location facing the New York Stock Exchange. The move would occur before the end of 2018.\n\nThe statue was removed from its original location at Bowling Green on November 28, 2018. It will be relocated to a spot in front of the New York Stock Exchange. On the spot where the statue stood now has a marker which reads, \"Fearless Girl is on the move to The New York Stock Exchange. Until she's there, stand for her.\" The plaque also has footprints where people can stand.\n\nArturo Di Modica, who installed \"Charging Bull\" in 1989, asked that the statue of the girl be removed, arguing that the piece exploited his work for commercial purposes and altered the perception of the bull. He called \"Fearless Girl\" \"an advertising trick\" that he wants relocated, citing its political messaging.\n\nOn April 12, 2017, Di Modica and his attorney, former New York Civil Liberties Union director Norman Siegel, challenged city officials who let the \"Fearless Girl\" statue be installed. Di Modica said that the statue corrupted \"Charging Bull\" artistic integrity by distorting the intent of his statue from \"a symbol of prosperity and for strength\" into a villain, and does so for SSgA's commercial gain. Siegel said a lawsuit had not been filed as of yet. De Blasio supported keeping the statue, tweeting that \"Men who don't like women taking up space are exactly why we need the Fearless Girl.\"\n\nSome women criticized the statue as \"corporate feminism\" that violated their own feminist principles. \"The New York Times\" columnist Gina Bellafante called it \"an exercise in corporate imaging\" by State Street, which, she wrote, had entered into a deferred prosecution agreement with the United States Department of Justice, agreeing to pay more than $64 million to resolve fraud charges for secretly billing clients for unwarranted commissions. \"Corporate feminism\", she wrote, \"operates with the singular goal of aiding and abetting a universe of mothers who tuck their daughters in at night whispering, 'Someday, honey, you can lead the emerging markets and sovereign debt team at Citigroup, and then become a director at Yahoo. Christine Emba, an opinion writer for \"The Washington Post\", wrote that the statue \"portrays the empowered woman as a child, reinforcing the idea of femaleness as cute and inoffensive—a child with potential, maybe, but not all the way there.\"\n\nGothamist reported on March 20, 2017, that masked New York activists covered the statue in \"Make America Great Again\" apparel and a US flag. They also placed pro-Donald Trump signs on it, including one reading \"VETS B4 ILLEGALS\" and another with a drawing of Pepe the Frog.\n\nOn May 29, 2017, artist Alex Gardega added a statue of a small dog, titled \"Pissing Pug\" (alternatively \"Peeing Pug\" or \"Sketchy Dog\"), and removed it after approximately three hours. He described \"Fearless Girl\" as \"corporate nonsense\" and \"disrespect to the artist that made the bull.\"\n\nOn October 6, 2017, State Street, the company that funded \"Fearless Girl\", paid $5 million to settle a lawsuit from its female and minority employees who alleged the company violated equal pay rights.\n\nAs reported by Bloomberg News, analysts from marketing firm Apex Marketing estimated that the statue resulted in $7.4 million in free publicity for SSGA as of April 2017, broken down into $201,075 worth of free radio coverage, $393,047 worth of free social media coverage, $3,115,751 worth of free TV coverage, and $3,729,926 worth of free online/print news coverage.\n\nAt the 2017 Cannes Lions festival, \"Fearless Girl\" won three Grand Prix on the first day of the event alone, in the Glass (which deals with marketing addressing gender inequality) and PR categories, and tying for first in the Outdoor category alongside a campaign by Twitter.\n\nA duplicate of the sculpture was unveiled outside the Grand Hotel in the Norwegian city of Oslo on March 8, 2018. It faces the Norwegian parliament Stortinget.\n\nFearless Girl is one of only two campaigns that have ever won four Grand Prix at Cannes.\n\n"}
{"id": "3186389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3186389", "title": "Fred Segal", "text": "Fred Segal\n\nFred Segal is a clothing and accessories retail store founded in West Hollywood, California. Its flagship store is on Sunset Boulevard in West Hollywood.\n\nThere are currently three Fred Segal locations in the United States. The new global flagship is in West Hollywood, the historic Fred Segal location is on Melrose and the third location is at LAX’s Thomas Bradley International Terminal. There are two international flagships in Japan, one in the Daikanyama neighborhood of Tokyo and the other in Kobe. In September 2018, Fred Segal stores opened in Switzerland (3 stores), Taipei, and Kuala Lumpur. \n\nOver five decades ago, Fred Segal opened a local jeans-only store. This 300-square-foot store grew over the years, and with the expansion, Segal invited key managers to purchase and run select boutiques within their respective area of merchandising expertise within the Fred Segal center offering them to participate as franchisees under the Fred Segal Brand. These franchisees brought in the style and merchandise that eventually know collectively as \"Fred Segal.\"\n\nIn May 2012, the worldwide licensing rights to the brand were acquired by SANDOW, a company with brands spanning the design, fashion and beauty sectors. In late 2012, SANDOW announced Fred Segal's expansion strategy to open new flagship locations, both internationally and domestically, launch Fred Segal’s first e-commerce site, and create private merchandise lines.\n\nIn May 2014, SANDOW and Fred Segal announced the partnership with equity investor Evolution Media Partners (Evolution), a joint venture between Evolution Media Capital (EMC), an entertainment, media and sports merchant bank formed in partnership with Creative Artists Agency (CAA); TPG Growth, the middle market and growth equity investment platform of global investment firm TPG; and Participant Media, the global entertainment company founded in 2004 by Jeff Skoll.\n\nIn September 2017, Fred Segal opened their domestic flagship store on the corner of Sunset and La Cienega in West Hollywood, CA.\n\n"}
{"id": "9615084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9615084", "title": "Frozen (play)", "text": "Frozen (play)\n\nFrozen is a play by Bryony Lavery that tells the story of the disappearance of a 10-year-old girl, Rhona. The play follows Rhona's mother and killer over the years that follow. They are linked by a doctor who is studying what causes men to commit such crimes. The themes of the play include emotional paralysis and forgiveness.\n\nThe play was first performed at Birmingham Repertory Theatre in 1998 and won the Best New Play Award from the Theatrical Management Association. It later made its debut at the Royal National Theatre's Cottesloe Theatre on 3 July 2002.\n\nThe play was revived at The Theatre Royal Haymarket starring Jason Watkins, Suranne Jones and Nina Sosanya for a strictly limited season from February 2018.\n\n\"Frozen\" opened Off-Broadway in February 2004 at the Manhattan Class Company Theatre starring Swoosie Kurtz, Brian F. O'Byrne and Laila Robins. It transferred to Broadway in May and closed in August 2004. \"Frozen\" was nominated for a Tony Award for Best Play in 2004, and earned a Tony Award for Best Featured Actor in a Play (Brian F. O'Byrne).\n\nThe story is set in present-day England and involves three main characters: a serial killer named Ralph, who kidnaps and murders a young girl; the murdered girl's mother, Nancy; a New York psychiatrist, Agnetha, who travels to England to examine Ralph. The three lives slowly intersect — and the characters gradually change and become \"unfrozen\" as they come to terms with the idea of forgiveness. \n\nThe script begins in monologues, each person showing his or her side of the story; the audience sees each person's story intertwine as they connect with one another.\n\nIn September 2004, papers around the world (including \"The Times\", \"The Observer\", the \"New York Times\", and the Associated Press) reported that Lavery had allegedly plagiarized significant portions (nearly 675 words) of the play from a 1997 \"The New Yorker\" article by Malcolm Gladwell about psychiatrist Dorothy Lewis, and from Lewis' own 1998 book \"Guilty by Reason of Insanity.\" \n\nLewis claimed that \"Frozen\" was based in large part on her life and that the play lifted both themes and verbatim passages from both sources. However, after interviewing Lavery, Gladwell wrote a second \"New Yorker\" article in which he characterized Lavery’s appropriation as \"permissible borrowing.\" Lavery, for her part, acknowledged that all three characters were drawn heavily from external sources. For the character of Ralph, she drew on the book \"The Murder of Childhood\" by Ray Wyre and Tim Tate. For the character of Nancy, she drew on an article in \"The Guardian\" by Marian Partington, whose sister Lucy had been murdered by the serial killers Fred and Rosemary West. And, for the character of Agnetha, Lavery drew on the Gladwell article. \"I wanted [the play] to be accurate\", she told Gladwell.\n\n\nThe \"TalkinBroadway\" reviewer of a Florida production wrote: \"[A] powerful drama ... about three people living the human condition... a story that needs to continue to be told.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258894", "title": "Golden Mile, Durban", "text": "Golden Mile, Durban\n\nThe Golden Mile (or, colloquially, \"The Mile\") is the popular stretch of beachfront in the city of Durban, KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa, including the promenade that runs along with it. It runs roughly from uShaka Beach (where the uShaka Marine World is located) in Point Waterfront to Suncoast Casino and Entertainment World in the north and now includes a route directly to Moses Mabhida Stadium. It abuts the central business district of the city to its west. \n\nIt is one of the main tourist attractions in the Durban area. The wide stretch of golden sands, artificially separated by various piers, provides excellent opportunities for sun-worshippers and swimmers to enjoy the sub-tropical sunshine and warm waters of the Indian Ocean. Most of the Mile's beaches are protected year-round by lifeguards and shark nets. The Mile is also a well-known surfer's haven. The South Beach end, in particular, is well known as a safe beach for neophyte surfers. The beachfront properties are a mix of residential apartments and tourist hotels, development of which boomed in the 1970s, although remnants of Durban's art-deco architecture are still evident. Interspersed among the beachfront properties are several popular restaurants and nightclubs.\n\nThe Golden Mile has long been a popular domestic holiday destination and during the holiday seasons (June–July and December–January) \nSouth Africans from across the country, but in particular the Gauteng region, flock to enjoy its many attractions, which include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24307450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24307450", "title": "Hillsboro Artists' Regional Theatre", "text": "Hillsboro Artists' Regional Theatre\n\nHillsboro Artists' Regional Theatre (HART), originally the Hillsboro Actors Repertory Theater, is a community theatre group in Hillsboro, Oregon, United States. Founded in 1994, the non-profit group presents around six plays each year. Their 99-seat theater is located in downtown Hillsboro next to the Hillsboro Civic Center along Washington Street.\n\nThe Hillsboro Actors Repertory Theater was founded in 1994 by John and Kim Sandstrom as an extension of their dinner-theater company SandStorm Productions. The married couple opened the theater in the former J. C. Penney store in downtown Hillsboro using their own money, grants, and donated time a materials. Kim Sandstrom also started the Hillsboro Actors Training studio at the same time. HART’s debut production was the comedy \"Light Up the Sky\" written by playwright Moss Hart. Directed by Nicholette Reid, the production debuted in September 1994.\n\nBy the end of their second season in 1996, the 70-seat theater had produced 11 plays. Productions in the early years included \"Romeo and Juliet\", \"Barefoot in the Park\", and \"Show Boat\" among others. In February 1996, the Sandstroms began looking at selling the company to a non-profit group. They sold it that year to the Friends of HART in order to focus on raising their family, though Kim remained involved as artistic director for a year. Kim Sandstrom took a hiatus from performing in 2001 after developing health problems, but returned in 2003 to start in \"Shirley Valentine\", a one-person play by Willy Russell. Actor Bret Harrison got his first acting role at HART in a production of \"Our Town\" in these early years of HART. By 2004, Michael Hibbard had become the artistic director at HART and in June the company had to move out of its original home that held 83 seats after rent doubled at the space. The group had also changed its name to Hillsboro Artists' Regional Theatre. Productions were then held and a variety of venues, including the Glenn & Viola Walters Cultural Arts Center.\n\nIn February 2005, the theater company began negotiating with the city of Hillsboro to lease a building next to the new Hillsboro Civic Center. HART needed to raise more than $350,000 before late October to remodel the location along southeast Washington Street that previously housed a Pizza Schmizza restaurant and an office of Portland General Electric. Later the city gave an extension on the time HART had to raise the $600,000 needed to remodel the building. In December 2005, the theater received a $60,000 grant from the state of Oregon.\n\nMajor contributors to the fundraising campaign included Spirit Mountain Foundation, the Collins Foundation, and the Meyer Memorial Trust who had the largest donation with $100,000. By December 2006, the group had raised enough funds to sign a ten-year lease on the city-owned building at Second and Washington. The new theater opened in April 2007 with Marc Camoletti’s \"Don't Dress for Dinner\". In September 2009, the theater added a $15,000 marquee to the building.\n\nMore recent productions have included \"Quilters\" in 2010, \"Woman In Black\" in 2011, \"Rumors\", and \"Gracie for President\" in 2012. The theatre offers new works as well as the familiar, making an ongoing commitment to their patrons, local playwrights, directors and actors to bring a variety of entertainment and performances to the local community.\n\nHillsboro Artists' Regional Theatre produces six to ten shows each year. The theater is a community theater, and thus actors are unpaid. Those actors involved in productions often perform other roles with the theater including making costumes, cleaning, and other behind the scenes work. Shows are held on Fridays, Saturdays, and Sundays, with Sunday shows as matinées. The theater is housed in a building owned by Hillsboro. Seating 99 people, the building includes a concession stand, a lobby, a ticket office, dressing rooms, restrooms, and a stage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35853255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35853255", "title": "International trade in fine art", "text": "International trade in fine art\n\nThe international trade of fine art is most precisely defined as the trade across nations of unique, non-reproducible works by an artist. The art trade contradicts typical international trade models since it is a culturally significant good. It is not treated by consumers the same way any other commodity would because of the aesthetic value that is unique to each piece. Despite existing as a finite physical piece, unique art is still considered intellectual property. This sparks the debate as to whether art exports should be restricted for nationalistic and cultural reasons, or liberalized for the sake of a healthier international market.\n\nThe trade commodities included in the definition of \"visual art\" include the following: painting, drawing, sculpture in various materials, printmaking, photography, maps, performance art, installation art, mail art, assemblage art, textile arts, fashion design, video art, digital art, and product design. These works are non-functional, emotional, social, political, traditional, and cultural statements, and in comparison to other goods, are not greatly affected by commercial-sector constraints. Though visual art is a physical, hand-made good, it is often culturally rooted and created for aesthetic appeal. Therefore, art is considered intellectual property.\n\nThe 4-digit Standard International Trade Classification (SITC) classifies \"Works of Art, Collectors Pieces and Antiques\" under category 8960, which includes paintings, drawings, pastels, original sculptures, original prints, stamps, and antiques over 100 years old. This is the only SITC category that consists of unique, non-reproducible art, which is typically thought of as \"fine\" art. The 4-digit harmonized commodity description and coding system, otherwise known as the harmonized system (HS) code for \"fine\" art is 9701, which is classified as \"Paintings, Drawings and Pastels, Executed Entirely By Hand\".\n\nThe earliest known regulation of cultural property dates to 1464, when Pope Pius II prohibited the exportation of works of art from the Papal States. It wasn’t until the mid-1500s that any sizable amount of formal artwork was transferred between nations in licit markets. Previously, local demand had satisfied the supply of artwork, but it couldn’t keep up as the number of artists increased. Consequently, artists exported their works to foreign markets. Between 1540 and 1670, an average of 144 paintings per year were transported between the Netherlands and New Spain.\n\nThroughout much of the early modern period, if an artist could not domestically sell his art, he sold it instead to dealers who exported the works abroad. Starting in the 17th Century, however, most art was traded at the massive auction houses of Christie's and Sotheby's of London, which both still survive today.\n\nLike any other traded good, art has been historically subjected to import duties. For example, in the more enlightened years of the 19th Century, art escaped high tariffs in America because the government viewed art as an important cultural good. At other times, though, tariff revenue was considered more important than free intellectual property.\n\nDuring World War II, neutral Switzerland became the primary trafficker of art on the European continent. Most \"degenerate\" works of art that the Nazi government purged from German museums were sold there, where they largely entered black markets. Since the war ended, there has been a massive, ongoing effort to recover all of these works. For fifteen years following the war, 45,000 pieces were returned to France, mostly to Jewish owners.\n\nToday, almost every country in the world has restrictions and regulations on the export of cultural property. Currently, most art auctions are facilitated on online sites such as eBay and Lauritz.com.\n\nFine art proves complicated for economists to analyze, mostly because trade in unique art is in large part trade between consumers – the \"secondary market\" – rather than the \"primary market\" trade between the producer (artist) and the consumer. For example, when a museum buys a sculpture from a private collector, the exchange is between two consumers and considered a transaction in the secondary market because neither of them produced the sculpture. It is more complicated for economists, then, to capture these transactions in their data.\n\nComparative advantage is also more difficult to pinpoint in the case of cultural goods. There is a certain degree of cultural nationalism of art, making some nations reluctant to part with their cultural property. Additionally, relative advantage cannot simply be calculated by the marginal cost of producing a unit of art, since aesthetic value plays so heavily into its price.\n\nTrade theory demonstrates how much and at what price countries trade goods if they have different endowments or different preferences. But this model is not very useful because of retentive nationalism: a country that is relatively less endowed with art-producing resources will not stop producing simply because they can import art from abroad at cheaper prices.\n\nTraditional trade theory treats art as a homogenous, non-differentiated good, which is where it fails to reliably predict trade trends. Unique art is valued precisely because of its uniqueness. Since each piece of art is different, and because each piece does not appear on the market very often, the determination of changes in market value prove difficult to determine.\n\nEconomists use the hedonic regression (HR) estimation method to calculate prices in art. This is used to predict prices based on various attributes of the artwork such as its dimensions, the artist, and the subject matter attended to.\n\nProtectionism is a nationalistic viewpoint that contends that a healthy cultural industry is necessary to assert national sovereignty and identity. Countries with small domestic markets are often overwhelmed by imports from larger markets in which producers can make up their costs of production by dumping content abroad. America is the largest exporter of artwork in the world, and English speaking countries are especially vulnerable to American imports. Protectionists view this as a modern form of American imperialism, which reduces cultural diversity when national industries are unable to compete.\n\nProtectionism is less concerned with direct economic interest as it is with preserving cultural integrity. Australian economist David Throsby argues that investment in \"cultural capital\" may be necessary for the sustainability of a culture. Paul M. Bator, who helped negotiate and draft the UNESCO convention on the International Trade of Art, argues that larger countries are responsible for the cultural interests of smaller ones. He explains in \"The International Trade in Art\" that \"art-rich countries should create tax and other financial and psychological incentives to persuade those with important antiquities and archaeological objects to keep them at home\".\nProponents of liberalization in international art markets stress that open markets contribute to efficient production and distribution of cultural products. Reliance on competitive market forces also frees creative individuals from the hindrance of government oversight. Many special characteristics of cultural products – the lack of rivalry in content, economies of scale, and agglomeration economies – enhance the case for opening markets. Protection raises rather than lowers domestic prices, which detracts from consumer welfare.\n\nThe \"commodification objection\" is the reluctance to classify an important cultural good as a simple trade commodity, and is frequently cited by cultural protectionists. Those who advocate openness believe that free-market nations can provide the most effective political force for development of an active market. This argument diametrically opposes Bator’s: free-trade advocates contend that large countries are better suited to help smaller nations finance organization of their cultural resources for more effective participation in international trade.\n\nThe issue of the illicit art trade also factors into the debate. In terms of value transferred, the illegal trafficking of art ranks in black market activities second only to narcotics. More problematic than the actual theft of the work is its subsequent transport, which proves difficult to prosecute since most paintings are easily concealable. By maintaining an open market, liberalists argue that much of the illicit trade of art can be eliminated.\n\nThe following tables list the top world import/export values, according to data from the UN Comtrade database using SITC code 8960. The sums here are greater than those included in HS 9701 (works done exclusively by hand) because the SITC classification includes works such as antiques, stamps, and sculpture that aren’t captured in the HS definition.\n\nThe United States both imports and exports the greatest value of art. The following tables use data from HS code 9701 code to rank the USA’s biggest trading partners in art.\n\n"}
{"id": "51202491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51202491", "title": "Jess Bradford", "text": "Jess Bradford\n\nJess Bradford is a fictional character in the \"Black Christmas\" series. She was created by A. Roy Moore and portrayed by actress Olivia Hussey. She is the primary protagonist of the 1974 original film. The character also \nappears in the novelization of the film. \"Black Christmas\" (1974) was praised for challenging gender roles with Jess receiving acclaim for the way she was written and the way that she was portrayed by Hussey. \n\nJess, along with the other characters in \"Black Christmas\", was praised for having characterization. She has been regarded as one of the most influential heroines in film and is considered to be one of the greatest final girls.\n\nOlivia Hussey was set to reprise her role in a sequel to the original film shortly after the release of the 2006 reboot. However, the film was scrapped after the death of Bob Clark.\n\nIn the original \"Black Christmas\", Jess is a member of the sorority house Pi Kappa Sig. Jess, along with her sorority sisters, began to receive disturbing phone calls from a disorientated man. During a Christmas party, Jess receives another obscene phone call and lets Barb, Phyl, Clare, and several other girls to listen to the incoherent ramblings of the disturbed caller, who does several different voices within each call he makes. The next day, Jess meets with her boyfriend, Peter, to tell him that she is pregnant and getting an abortion which causes him to get upset. Jess later attends a search party to help find a missing girl. After the girl's corpse is found, Jess heads home and receives another phone call. She calls the police, unaware that Peter is in the house until he startles her and argues with her. He leaves as the police come and tap the phone. She manages to keep the caller on the phone long enough for the police to trace the call and they tell her the man is calling from inside the house. \n\nJess calls for Phyl and Barb and grabs a fireplace poker and goes upstairs. She discovers the corpses of her friends and then sees the eyes of the caller who reveals himself as Billy looking at her through the door crack, telling her not to \"tell what we did, Agnes...\" before she slams the door on him. He then chases her downstairs and grabs her hair as she tries to unlock the front door. Jess manages to escape, fleeing to the basement with a fire poker for protection. \n\nShe locks the door just as Billy starts to bang on the door in rage. As Jess wanders the basement, she sees Peter looking into the window, and Jess kills him, believing him to be the killer. The police then hear her screams. They sedate Jess and unknowingly leave her in the house with the real killer, Billy, who is in the attic. Her fate is left ambiguous. Jess appears as the main character in the novelization of the film. \n\nShortly after the release of the 2006 reboot, Bob Clark began to work on a direct sequel to the original film. Olivia Hussey was set to reprise her role as Jess. In this film, Jess would have been the new house mother of the sorority house. The film was eventually abandoned after the untimely death of Clark.\n\nIn \"The Mammoth Book of Slasher Movies\", Peter Normanton praised the importance that Jess has on the film saying \"Jessica Bradford (Olivia Hussey) has to confront a dilemma in her own life, one that will have a major bearing on the outcome of this film.\" \n\nIn \"Fright Xmas,\" Alan-Bertaneisson Jones stated that the plot of \"Black Christmas\" did not focus on the killer but rather on Jess and the other girls from the film, saying that \"This is quite refreshing, because unlike in later movies where the victims (especially the female ones) are just a line of meat to feed to the grinder, in this film Jessica is a much more fully realized character; a character with great courage, intelligence and strength (more akin to Laurie from \"Halloween,\" Ripley from the \"Alien\" movies or Sidney from the \"Scream\" movies than most female victims of slashers, perhaps especially in the 1980s).\" \n\nIn \"Son of the 100 Best Movies You've Never Seen\", Richard Crouse praised Olivia's performance saying \"Hussey brings a quiet strength to Jess that hints at a fountain of inner resolve.\" and noted the complexity around her character stating that \"In \"Black Christmas\" Jess rebels against her boyfriend, planning to have an abortion. Clearly she is no virgin, and yet she is the sole survivor of Billy's rampage.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57893656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57893656", "title": "La Joconde nue", "text": "La Joconde nue\n\nLa Joconde nue or Monna Vanna is a 1514-1516 charcoal drawing with white highlights by the school of Leonardo da Vinci. It is a nude copy of Leonardo's \"Mona Lisa\". It is now in the musée Condé.\n"}
{"id": "13480677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13480677", "title": "List of international animation festivals", "text": "List of international animation festivals\n\nThis is a list of past and present international animation festivals. These festivals include only animation and accept submissions from around the world. They often show an international program of independent, student, and commercial work. They may or may not be competitive. Some are \"touring festivals\" which are not based in a single city.\n\n"}
{"id": "33942410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33942410", "title": "Lists of music by theme", "text": "Lists of music by theme\n\nThe following lists classify music and songs by theme\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24185683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24185683", "title": "Live painting", "text": "Live painting\n\nLive painting is a form of visual performance art, in which artists complete a visual art piece in a public performance, often at a bar, music concert, wedding reception, or public event, accompanied by a DJ or live music. The artwork which is created live may be planned or improvisational. This live art form is often contrasted with more studied fine art compositions from the same artists, which are generally executed in an artist studio or other private space.\n\nArtists in a number of genres have performed live painting, including famously LeRoy Neiman creating a painting during the 1976 Summer Olympics. In the 1990s and 2000s, live painting became a hallmark of street art and graffiti artists.\nLive painting has evolved beyond painting in situ by the impressionists, to incorporating the general public and arenas' of Modern Times. One of Australias famous exponents of 'Live Painting' performance art, Robert K Gammage has introduced the physical participation by spectators/hosts and or guests of adding imagery and colour in situ in the public domain during the event. Caitlin Beidler, an American artist of Redemption Art uses her live paintings to restore people, relationships, and communities through art. Redemption Art aims to be an effective tool in the restoration process by first creating trusting relationships through art, regardless of race, age, culture, or socioeconomic status. From these relationships, Redemption Art seeks to help bring about restoration and then transformation. \nThe Live Artist teams from Haven Art Studio are examples of Live Artists who collaborate on works of art during Live Art Performances. These artist teams were started in 2005 by the eight members of the Randolph family, based in Redding, California. They paint thematic works that echo world events with a positive redemption message.\n\nMichael Raivard, Live Painter - Glitter Painter\nHaven Art Live Elizabeth Randolph-Soto and Anna Randolph \n"}
{"id": "47502116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47502116", "title": "Merovingian illumination", "text": "Merovingian illumination\n\nMerovingian illumination is the term for the continental Frankish style of illumination in the late seventh and eight centuries, named for the Merovingian dynasty. Ornamental in form, the style consists of initials constructed from lines and circles based on Late Antique illumination, title pages with arcades and crucifixes. Figural images were almost totally absent. From the eight century, zoomorphic decoration began to appear and become so dominant that in some manuscripts from Chelles whole pages are made up of letters formed from animals. Unlike the contemporary Insular illumination with its rampant decoration, the Merovingian style aims for a clean page.\n\nOne of the oldest and most productive scriptoria was Luxeuil Abbey, founded by the Irish monk Columbanus in 590 and destroyed in 732. Corbie Abbey, founded in 662, developed its own version of the style, while Chelles and Laon were further centres. From the middle of the eighth century, Merovingian illumination was strongly influenced by insular illumination. An evangeliary from Echternach (Trier, Dombibliothek, Cod. 61 olim 134.) indicates that it came into the abbey as the collaborative work of Irish and Merovingian scribes. The foundation of Willibrord strongly influenced continental illumination and led to the brought Irish culture into the Merovingian realm.\n\n"}
{"id": "27192481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27192481", "title": "Oslo City art award", "text": "Oslo City art award\n\nThe Oslo City Art Award (\"Oslo bys kunstnerpris\") is given annually for contributions to the arts by the city of Oslo, Norway.\n\nThe Oslo City Art Award has been awarded every year since 1978 with the exception of 1991 when the prize was not awarded due to a lack of funding. Since inception, the prize has been distributed to 4-5 recipients annually. The prize is \"awarded to individuals who in the past or in recent years has made an outstanding achievement in Oslo's art world\". The prize consists of a diploma and a monetary amount. The award is most often made simultaneously with the presentation of the Oslo City Culture Award, which consists of a bronze medal and a monetary amount.\n"}
{"id": "51999416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51999416", "title": "Park Theatre (Brooklyn)", "text": "Park Theatre (Brooklyn)\n\nThe Park Theatre was a playhouse in Brooklyn, New York City, located on 381–383 Fulton Street. Built in 1860 and opened in 1863, the Park Theatre was the oldest playhouse in Brooklyn until it was destroyed by fire on November 12, 1908.\n"}
{"id": "379553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=379553", "title": "Photoshop contest", "text": "Photoshop contest\n\nA Photoshop contest, or sometimes Photoshop battle, is an online game, in which a website or user of an Internet forum will post a starting image — usually a photograph — and ask others to manipulate the image using some kind of graphics editing software, such as Adobe Photoshop, Corel Photo-Paint, The GIMP, PaintShop Pro, Paint.NET or Microsoft Paint. People can also use video editing software to create these images, such as Adobe Premiere Pro or NCH VideoPad.\n\nWhile Photoshop is the industry standard image editing program, Adobe Systems, the publisher of Photoshop, discourages use of \"Photoshop\" to refer to anything other than their photo editing software, to prevent their trademark from becoming generic.\n\nA large part of the humor in many of these contests involves the use of internet memes.\n\nSuch contests have recently seen increasing participation on many blogs and forums. The popular internet community Reddit has a community called /r/photoshopbattles devoted to the contests.\n\nA more \"underground\" variety of these image manipulation jokes involves the blending of celebrity faces with nude or pornographic images, often combined with references to movies, music, magazines and other forms of related popular culture.\n\nPhotoshop tennis (also known as Photoshop Pong or Photoshop battle (similar in its function to a \"DJ battle\" in hip hop music) is a game played through sequential alternating photoshopping of an image. Photoshop tennis originated in graphics-related internet forums in the late-1990s/early-2000s, and shares an earlier history with online image games such as SITO's \"PANIC\" (started January, 1994). The game was made popular by art director Jim Coudal in 2001 as \"Photoshop Tennis\". The matches on coudal.com have since been renamed Layer Tennis, as they are no longer restricted to the use of Adobe Photoshop.\n\nEach match of Photoshop tennis is generally played with two competing players. The players pick a starting image, or one is \"served\" by a player, then another player makes some sort of alteration to the image in any chosen image editor (matches are not exclusive to Adobe Photoshop). They then send the altered image to the other player or players, usually via e-mail or by posting the image to a Photoshop tennis forum, who then edits that image and sends it back to the first player. This process goes back and forth until a predetermined number of rounds have elapsed, or the players otherwise wish to end the game. When the final round is over, there may be an independent judge who determines who has played the best shots, and declares that person the winner, or players may play without a clear winner. Sometimes extra rules can be enforced, such as sticking to one particular software package, or keeping to a particular theme. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "16210676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16210676", "title": "Pokemón", "text": "Pokemón\n\nPokemón is the name of a subculture among Chile's youth that surfaced in the mid-2000s and began to decline in late 2009.\nBy 2012, it was considered extinct. They were readily identifiable by their angular and pressed hairstyles, reminiscent of characters from the Japanese media franchise Pokémon. It was one of the largest and better known urban tribes in the country.\n\nPokemones dressed similarly to other urban tribes, such as otaku and emo, but they were not followers of anime like the former, nor shared the musical tastes of the latter. Apart from borrowing aspects from the emo, like the sideswept bangs, the Pokemones also shared some aspects typical to the punk and the local \"hardcore\" subculture. Pokemones were livelier, more extroverted than the emo and otaku stereotypes. Most Pokemones were teens. During parties they danced to reggaeton music, while kissing and groping with as many people (male or female) as they could, which they called \"poncear\". They made extensive use of the Internet, trading photos of themselves on image-sharing site Fotolog and communicating through MSN Messenger.\n\nPokemones were usually from the Chilean middle and lower class. They were frequently juxtaposed against another group, the so-called \"peloláis\", well-to-do girls with long, straight, fairer hair from private, Catholic schools.\n\nIn January 2008, Internet messages surfaced urging violence against Pokemones (mainly because of borrowing aspects from other subcultures, such as emo hair, hip-hop clothes, and for using the c-walk). People belonging to the subculture increasingly began to be attacked outside discos and pubs. In response, a joint anti-violence campaign called \"Foundation for a Better Future\" was organized by the Chilean government and Santiago's main student leaders.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7093219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7093219", "title": "Qur'an Gate", "text": "Qur'an Gate\n\nQur'an Gate ( \"Darvāzeh Qur'an\") is a historic gate in the north of Shiraz, Iran.\n\nIt is located at the northeastern entrance of the city, on the way to Marvdasht and Isfahan, between Baba Kouhi and Chehel Maqam Mountains near Allah-O-Akbar Gorge.\n\nThe Gate was first built during the reign of 'Adud ad-Dawla. By the time of the Zand dynasty, it had sustained a lot of damage, so it was restored and a small room on top was added, in which were kept hand-written Qur’āns by Sultan Ibrahim Bin Shahrukh Gurekani. The two Qur’āns are known as Hifdah-Man. Travelers passing underneath the gates were believed to receive the blessing of the Holy Book as they began their trip or journey from Shiraz.\n\nDuring the Qajar dynasty, the gate was damaged by multiple earthquakes; it was later restored by Mohammad Zaki Khan Nouri. In 1937 the two Qur’āns were taken from the gate and were taken to the Pars Museum in Shiraz, where they remain today. In 1949 the arch of the gate was restored by Hosein Igar, a merchant also known as E'temad Al-Tejar. \n\nToday the gates are part of a city park where Shirazis relax and picnic during their leisure hours.\n\n"}
{"id": "43314578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43314578", "title": "Rust Cohle", "text": "Rust Cohle\n\nRustin Spencer \"Rust\" Cohle is a fictional character in the first season of the anthology crime drama television series \"True Detective\" on HBO. He was created by series creator Nic Pizzolatto and is portrayed by Matthew McConaughey. Cohle works as a detective for the Louisiana State Homicide Unit, alongside his partner Martin \"Marty\" Hart (Woody Harrelson). The season follows Cohle and Hart's hunt for a serial killer in Louisiana, across 17 years.\n\nBoth the character of Rust Cohle and Matthew McConaughey's performance have received critical acclaim. McConaughey won the Critics' Choice Television Award for Best Actor in a Drama Series, and was nominated for a Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Drama Series and a Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Miniseries or Television Film.\n\nCohle is introduced as a gifted, but deeply troubled, detective from Texas who is transferred from working on regional drug task force to the Louisiana State Police near the end of 1994. After three months with the LSP, in January 1995, he and his partner are tasked with investigating a series of brutal, bizarre murders. A haunted, solitary cynic, Cohle believes that life is meaningless, human beings are merely \"sentient meat\", and hope is self-delusion. Cohle spends his free time obsessing over every detail of the crime, hoarding evidence in a storage locker and keeping extensive notes in a ledger, which earns him the derisive nickname \"The Taxman\" among his colleagues.\n\nThe series gradually reveals Cohle's backstory. He was born in South Texas but raised in Alaska by his father after his parents divorced. He became a police detective in his 20s. Years before the main story arc, his two-year-old daughter, Sophia, was killed in a car accident, a tragedy that destroyed his marriage. Devastated by the loss, Cohle grew ever more unstable and unpredictable in his work, eventually killing a crystal meth addict who had injected his own child with the drug. His superiors offered him a chance to avoid prison by working as an undercover narcotics detective, which he did for four years; Cohle notes that this was twice as long as most undercover detectives are kept in rotation. During this assignment, Cohle became addicted to drugs, and eventually killed three cartel members in a shootout, while being shot multiple times himself.\n\nDuring his recovery, he was committed to a mental hospital in Lubbock, Texas. Upon his release, he was offered retirement with full pension, but he declined that offer in favor of transferring to a homicide division. His superiors then transferred him to Louisiana. In Louisiana, he lives alone and has no friends, living only for his work. He tries to remain sober, but he occasionally falls off the wagon because of the stress of his job and his grief for his daughter. Cohle also has synesthesia and suffers from flashbacks from his drug-using years as an undercover cop.\n\nThe series takes place in two time periods: 1995–2002, in which Cohle and Hart work together to find the killer; and 2012, when Cohle, who has by now quit the police force and become an alcoholic, submits to an interview with Louisiana State Police Department detectives Maynard Gilbough (Michael Potts) and Thomas Papania (Tory Kittles) regarding the murders. Cohle sees through the detectives, and realizes that they think he is the killer.\n\nCohle and Hart are assigned to investigate a murder in which the killer raped and tortured the victim, Dora Lange, and attached a pair of antlers to her head after killing her. They find Lange's diary, which contains repeated references to \"Carcosa\" and a \"Yellow King\". In the wreckage of a burnt-out church Lange attended, they find a wall painting depicting a human figure wearing deer antlers.\n\nCohle and Hart work the case for three months, during which they trace the murder to Reggie Ledoux (Charles Halford), a former cellmate of Lange's ex-husband. To find more information, Cohle infiltrates a biker gang with ties to Ledoux, posing as a drug dealer representing a cartel in Mexico. He assists the gang in a home invasion so he can arrest the ringleader, Ginger (Joseph Sikora), and force him to lead them to Ledoux, who cooks meth for the biker gang. During the home invasion, a shootout ensues in which several people are killed. Ginger takes Cohle to meet Ledoux's cousin and \"cook partner\", Dewall (Ólafur Darri Ólafsson). The meeting does not go well, but Hart follows Dewall to Ledoux's meth lab and calls Cohle to tell him where it is. There, Hart and Cohle discover that Ledoux has kidnapped and tortured two children, and Hart kills Ledoux in a fit of rage as Cohle looks on. Dewall, meanwhile, is killed after he runs off and blows up on one of his own homemade mines. Cohle stages evidence to support Hart's story that Ledoux opened fire on them, forcing Hart to kill him in self-defense. The two are hailed as heroes, and receive commendations and promotions.\n\nIn 2002, Cohle interrogates a suspect who reveals that Ledoux and Dewall did not act alone. He tells Cohle that he will give them information about the \"Yellow King\" in return for a plea deal. Cohle wants to investigate this lead further, but the suspect kills himself in his cell that night, after receiving a phone call. Cohle becomes obsessed with reopening the case, and pursues several leads, including a private Christian school run by Rev. Billy Lee Tuttle (Jay O. Sanders) that had been closed amid rumors of child molestation. Tuttle complains to Cohle's superiors, who suspend Cohle without pay and order him to leave the case closed. That night, Hart's wife Maggie (Michelle Monaghan) shows up at Cohle's apartment and seduces him in order to get back at Hart for repeatedly cheating on her. Hart finds out and gets into a fistfight with Cohle in front of the entire department. Cohle quits the force the same day, and becomes a drifter and an alcoholic, supporting himself as a part-time bartender.\nIn 2012, murders similar to those from 1995 begin again, Cohle is seen in the vicinity of the body, arousing the suspicion of Louisiana State Police Department detectives Maynard Gilbough and Thomas Papania. They believe that Cohle was the killer in 1995, because he led Hart to every lead they had and seemed to know everything about the killer's frame of mind. Gilbough and Papania now believe that Cohle is committing the new murders as well. They interview Cohle and Hart, who both refuse to cooperate once the purpose of the interview becomes clear.\n\nCohle meets with Hart and tells him that he has found evidence leading to the killer. Hart is skeptical, and still resentful of Cohle for having sex with Maggie, but Cohle convinces him to help with the investigation by showing him a videotape he stole from Rev. Tuttle's home. The video is over 20 years old, and shows numerous masked men raping and torturing Marie Fontenot, a missing child whose name had come up in their investigation 17 years earlier. Cohle and Hart track down the original case's chief investigating officer, Steve Geraci (Michael Harney), and interrogate him at gunpoint. Geraci tells them that his superior, the late Sheriff Ted Childress, ordered him to halt the investigation; Childress was one of Tuttle's relatives. They soon discover that the Tuttle and Childress families — to whom both Reggie and Dewall Ledoux belong — are related, and have long histories of child abuse and murder. They ultimately discover that the killer is a Childress, and go to the late sheriff's home to investigate.\n\nCohle and Hart go to the Childress house, where they find that the sheriff's son, Errol (Glenn Fleshler), is the killer, and discover the remains of his father tied up in a shed. They also encounter Betty Childress (Ann Dowd), his mentally disabled half-sister, with whom he is having an incestuous relationship. Cohle pursues Childress into the catacombs behind the house, which Childress identifies as Carcosa. Cohle discovers an idol draped in yellow and covered in skulls — the \"Yellow King\" — and has a hallucination of a spiraling vortex, the same vortex that had been drawn on many of the victims over the past 17 years. Childress stabs Cohle in the gut and also attacks Hart, but Cohle saves his partner by shooting Childress in the head, killing him. Gilborough and Papania, whom Hart had called, arrive at the scene. With the evidence Hart and Cohle collected, they connect Childress to dozens of murders, including Dora Lange's.\n\nCohle falls into a coma, during which he feels the loving presence of his father and daughter. He later wakes up in hospital and leaves with Hart, and tells him that, \"Once there was only dark. If you ask me, the light's winning.\"\n\nMcConaughey received critical acclaim for his portrayal of Cohle, and has won and been nominated for several awards, including:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32515260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32515260", "title": "Salón de Mayo", "text": "Salón de Mayo\n\nThe Salón de Mayo (May Salon) was an art exhibition held in Havana, Cuba, in July 1967. It took its name from the Salon de Mai, an artists collective founded during the Nazi occupation of France. It was organized by Carlos Franqui with the assistance of such artists as Wifredo Lam, René Portocarrero, Alexander Calder, Joan Miró, Pablo Picasso.\n\nThe exhibition presented works by more than a hundred artists and represented rival schools of twentieth-century art: early modernists (Picasso, Miro, Magritte); the next generation (Lam, Calder, Jacques Hérold, Stanley Hayter); and postwar (Asger Jorn, Antonio Saura, Jorge Soto).\n\nLam wrote to Franqui in anticipation of the event of his hopes:\n\nSome artists were invited to create works in Cuba in the weeks preceding the exhibition, with those works donated to the Cuban government to form the nucleus of the collection of a contemporary art museum. The museum was never constructed.\n\nCollaborative engagement was a principle theme of the event. On 19 July 1967, more than eighty artists and writers contributed to a mural, \"Cuba colectiva\", in front of the Cuba Pavilion in Havana, adding either images or text inside spiral bands that circled outward from a central image of \"rhomboid heads\" by Lam. A Paris newspaper described the event:\n\nIn Franqui's words the enterprise represented:\n\nThe Surrealists had dreamed of \"a revolutionary imagination that could support social change\" and this event, in the estimation of one art historian, \"delivered the opportunity for Surrealist adherents to participate satisfactorily–if only briefly–in an act of solidarity with an actual revolutionary regime ... that accommodated both sensuality and revolutionary rectitude.\" The radical poet Alain Jouffroy wrote:\n\nThe Salón was a unique event under a regime that, in the words of a writer who was later imprisoned, \"used every imaginable pretext to keep culture on a short leash\". As a demonstration of vigorous self-expression, the Salón de Mayo has also been interpreted as a rejection of the Soviet Union's approach to artistic endeavor, an assertion on the part of Communist Cuba of its independence from the Soviet model. Within Cuba, the Salón de Mayo represented the high point of free artistic expression. Some in Cuba's cultural establishment resented the influence of foreigners and visiting intellectuals, and they took measures soon after it against writers identified as dissidents.\n\nThe Cuban government released a series of commemorative stamps that depicted 25 of the works included in the show.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4623561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4623561", "title": "Sarmishsay", "text": "Sarmishsay\n\nThe Sarmish Gorge (better known as Sarmishsay) is located on the southern slopes of the Karatau mountain range, 30–40 km to the north-east of the city of Navoi (Kermine) in Uzbekistan. The mountain range of the Karatau is considered to be one of the western spurs of the Turkestan Mountain Ridge of the Western Tien Shan. To the south of the Karatau lies the Zarafshan Valley, bordering the Kyzyl Kum desert. Since ancient times, the Karatau area has been an intersection of seasonal migration routes for people and animals.\n\nSarmishsay is the largest of many picturesque gorges along the southern slopes of the Karatau range. This place is famous for various ancient monuments of anthropogenic activity concentrated in an area of about 20 km². The sights include flint quarries, mines, old settlements, burial mounds, crypts and petroglyphs, including monuments of the Middle Ages, early Iron Age, Bronze Age and even Stone Age.\n\nThere are over 4,000 petroglyphs still intact in Sarmishsay. They are mainly located at the beginning of a narrow stone canyon of 2-2.5 km (approx. 1.5 miles) long. The paintings are made on vertical, and sometimes on horizontal outcroppings of reddish sandstone streaked with slate and limestone.\n\nNext to the petroglyphs the burial grounds of ancient nomads and some pagan altars are located. Since ancient times this territory has been a sacred zone, where locals performed their sacred ceremonies on holy days.\n\nThe Petroglyphs of Sarmishsay give quite a comprehensive picture of local fauna thousands of years ago. Today most of the animals they portray, which once inhabited this area, have disappeared, unable to compete for food with man and domestic livestock. Most of animals included in the stone \"book\" of the Sarmish Gorge now are extinct.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39273488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39273488", "title": "Shakespeare and the Goddess of Complete Being", "text": "Shakespeare and the Goddess of Complete Being\n\nShakespeare and the Goddess of Complete Being is a book of literary criticism authored by Ted Hughes. Hughes has extensively discussed the poems and other literary works of Shakespeare in this book. The book is written in three parts: \nThe book also provides an insight into Ted Hughes' gender attitudes.\n\n"}
{"id": "34957163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34957163", "title": "Sound of the Desert (TV series)", "text": "Sound of the Desert (TV series)\n\nSound of the Desert () is a 2014 Chinese television series based on the historical romance novel \"Ballad of the Desert\" by Tong Hua. It stars Cecilia Liu, Eddie Peng and Hu Ge. The series aired on Hunan TV from 1 October to 27 November 2014.\n\nJin Yu (Cecilia Liu), an orphan girl of Xiongnu ethnicity, was raised by wolves in the desert, until a Han Chinese decided to adopt her. Two years later, following the death of her adoptive father due to political changes, she decides to follow the man's wish and flees to Jian'an, the capital of Western Han Dynasty, changing her name to Xin Yue. Along her journey, she meets Mo Xun (Hu Ge), a calm and kind disabled man, and later the handsome, cold general Wei Wu Ji (Eddie Peng). In Jian'an, thanks to her determination, Xin Yue becomes the head of a dance house and helps a quiet girl named Qin Xiang (Fala Chen) to meet the Emperor. Qin Xiang then turns into the Emperor's most powerful concubine and schemes against Xin Yue. In the meantime, Xin Yue's past with the Xiongnu catches up with her when she meets her childhood friend, Hu Wei Li (Qin Hao), who is now the Ruler of the Damo plains.\n\nWhile battling against the onslaught of her painful childhood memories and the political intrigue of the royal family, Xin Yue must also choose between Mo Xun and Wei Wu Ji.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nFilming for the series started on 8 March 2012 and ended on 2 July 2012. Subsequent review by SARFT however, claimed the series of falsifying historical accounts. Extensive changes were thus required, resetting the entire premise to take place in a fictional era in a fictional country. Character names from the novel which were based on Chinese historical figures were changed, and dialogues and subtitling were revised.\n\nEarly titles of the series were \"Ballad of the Desert\" (大漠谣, \"Dàmò yáo\", also known as \"A Story of the Wolf Girl\"), \"Romance of the Desert\" (大漠奇缘, \"Dàmò qí yuán\") and \"The Legend of Moon and Star\" (星月传奇, \"Xīng yuè chuánqí\"). \n\n\n"}
{"id": "37045618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37045618", "title": "The City of Beautiful Nonsense (novel)", "text": "The City of Beautiful Nonsense (novel)\n\nThe City of Beautiful Nonsense was a best-selling novel written by Ernest Temple Thurston. It became the inspiration for two films (see below for details). It was originally published by Chapman and Hall in 1909, but because the copyright has expired, the text of the book is now in the public domain. There was a \"new and illustrated\" edition, with illustrations by Emile Verpilleux, published a year later in 1910. It may fairly be described as a sentimental novel: Temple Thurston himself wrote that \"To many, from the first page to the last, it had not the faintest conception of reality, and indeed has earned for me the classification of sentimentalist\". This was in the Author's Note to the sequel, entitled \"The World of Wonderful Reality\", published a decade later in 1919. His obituary in \"The Times\" (20 March 1933) stated that \"there were those who might suggest that sentimentalism was too evident in Temple Thurston's work\". As well as being a vehicle for Edwardian romanticism, the novel shares the Roman Catholic faith of its author with its main characters. It is a tale of two cities: mainly Edwardian London – the sidelights on life in London for the shabby genteel are interesting – but also Venice.\n\nThe first film based on the novel was \"The City of Beautiful Nonsense\", a silent movie released in 1919, which featured Henry Edwards, Chrissie White and Henry Vibart\n\nThe second film was a talkie, released in 1935 as \"City of Beautiful Nonsense\". It starred Emlyn Williams, Sophie Stewart and Eve Lister. Both were filmed and produced in the United Kingdom.\n\n"}
{"id": "1014743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1014743", "title": "The Streets of Cairo", "text": "The Streets of Cairo\n\n\"The Streets of Cairo\" or \"The Poor Little Country Maid\", also known as \"the snake charmer song\", is a well-known melody in the United States. Alternate titles for children's songs using this melody include \"The Girls in France\" and \"The Southern Part of France\". This song is often associated with the hoochie coochie belly dance.\n\nPurportedly the original version of the song was written by Sol Bloom, a showman (and later a U.S. Congressman) who was the entertainment director of the World's Columbian Exposition in 1893. It included an attraction called \"A Street in Cairo\" produced by Gaston Akoun, which featured snake charmers, camel rides, and a scandalous dancer known as Little Egypt. Songwriter James Thornton penned the words and music to his own version of this melody, \"Streets Of Cairo or The Poor Little Country Maid\". Copyrighted in 1895, it was made popular by his wife Lizzie Cox, who used the stage name Bonnie Thornton. The oldest known recording of the song is from 1895, performed by Dan Quinn (Berliner Discs 171-Z).\n\nThe first five notes of the song are similar to the beginning of a French song named \"Colin Prend Sa Hotte\" (1719), which in turn resembles note for note an Algerian or Arabic song titled \"Kradoutja\".\n\nThe melody is often heard when something that is connected with deserts, Arabia, Persia, Egypt, belly dancing, or snake charming is being displayed.\n\nThe song was also recorded as \"They Don't Wear Pants in the Southern Part of France\" by John Bartles, the version sometimes played by radio host Dr. Demento.\n\nIn France, there is a popular song that immigrants from Algeria brought back in the 1960s called \"Travadja La Moukère\" (from \"trabaja la mujer\", which means \"the woman works\" in Spanish), which uses the same Hoochy Coochy tune. Its original tune, said to have been based on an original Arab song, was created around 1850 and subsequently adopted by the Foreign Legion.\n\nPartial lyrics :\n\nTranslation:\n\nSince the piece is not copyrighted, it has been used as a basis for several songs, especially in the early 20th century:\n\n\nLater popular songs that include all or part of the melody include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nFrom cartoons the song has been adapted to video games. It appears on following computer and videogames:\n\n\n\nThe tune is used for a 20th-century American children's song with – like many unpublished songs of child folk culture – countless variations as the song is passed from child to child over considerable lengths of time and geography, the one constant being that the versions are almost always smutty. One variation, for example, is:\nor a similar version:\n\nAnother World War II-era variation is as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40570354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40570354", "title": "Tina Carter", "text": "Tina Carter\n\nTina Carter is a fictional character from the BBC soap opera \"EastEnders\", portrayed by Luisa Bradshaw-White. She first appeared on 18 November 2013, and was introduced as the sister of established character Shirley Carter (Linda Henry). She was the first of a set of new characters that expanded the Carter family in 2013, headed by executive producer Dominic Treadwell-Collins (although Tina was introduced by executive producer Lorraine Newman). Tina and Bradshaw-White's casting were announced on 19 September 2013. The character was previously mentioned on-screen due to her daughter, Zsa Zsa Carter (Emer Kenny) appearing on the show in 2010. Tina's storylines mostly revolve around her relationship with her sister Shirley and same-sex relationships with Tosh Mackintosh (Rebecca Scroggs), who physically abuses her, and Sonia Fowler (Natalie Cassidy), which ends when Sonia falls out of love with her. Tina also accidentally runs over Janet Mitchell (Grace) and has sex with Janet's father, Billy Mitchell (Perry Fenwick). In a later storyline, Tina feuded with Stuart Highway (Ricky Champ) when it was revealed that he drugged and attacked her when she was a teenager.\n\nPhil Mitchell (Steve McFadden) tracks his ex-girlfriend Shirley Carter (Linda Henry) to Tina's rundown flat, after she has been forced out of Walford by criminal Carl White (Daniel Coonan). Shirley agrees to return with Phil, and gives Tina money to escape her abusive girlfriend. She does this, and joins Shirley in Walford. They struggle to find somewhere to live as Tina and Phil do not get on, and end up sleeping on Billy Mitchell's (Perry Fenwick) floor. Billy develops a crush on Tina, which leads her to reject his advances as she is a lesbian, despite having been married to a man in the past and having a teenage daughter, Zsa Zsa Carter (Emer Kenny), who previously lived with Shirley in Walford.\n\nTina encourages Shirley to get back in touch with Shirley's estranged son (then believed to be their brother) Mick Carter (Danny Dyer). They visit his pub in Watford, but his wife Linda Carter (Kellie Bright) is cold towards them so Tina steals money from a bingo competition going on. Shirley returns the money and reconciles with Mick, who then moves his family to Walford by buying the local pub, The Queen Victoria (the Vic). Tina and Shirley move in with the family and help run the pub, although Tina gets a job at the local café soon after. Tina befriends her colleague Sonia Fowler (Natalie Cassidy). Tina sleeps with Billy when drunk, but tells him that she does not have feelings for him and they agree to be just friends. She is delighted when her father Stan Carter (Timothy West), who the rest of the family are estranged from, makes amends with his children and moves into the Vic with them.\n\nTina realises she is still in love with her abusive ex-girlfriend, Tosh Mackintosh (Rebecca Scroggs), and reconciles with her. She brings her to a family dinner, but Tosh and Shirley argue and after Shirley tries to stop Tina from seeing Tosh. Tina rebels and starts a full relationship with Tosh again, with them eventually moving into a flat nearby with Aleks Shirovs (Kristian Kiehling) and Jake Stone (Jamie Lomas). Tina supports Sonia with marital issues, and passes up a night out with Tosh to be with her. They share a passionate kiss, but afterwards decide to just be friends. Tosh demands that Tina and Sonia end their friendship when she finds out, and accidentally causes Tina to hit her head on a door frame in a rage. They reconcile and Tosh tells Tina she wants to have a baby. Tina is reserved at first due to her bad parentage of Zsa Zsa, but eventually agrees and supports Tosh when she is inseminated. This is expensive and Tina begins dealing drugs from the café with the help of her aunt, Babe Smith (Annette Badland), but they are forced to stop when Mick and Shirley find out. Tosh is upset when Tina's colleague Carol Jackson (Lindsey Coulson) tells her about the drug dealing, and convinces Tina to raise the money by working extra shifts instead.\n\nTosh becomes pregnant through the insemination and they announce this at Stan's birthday party, although she loses the baby soon after. Depressed at this, Tosh accepts Tina's nephew Dean Wicks' (Matt Di Angelo) offer of being a sperm donor, without Tina's knowledge or consent. Tina is angry when she finds out, but forgives Tosh and supports her when she discovers she is not pregnant again. They fall out when Tosh accuses her of not wanting a baby, and Tosh punches her after taunting her. Tina again forgives her and decides to try and reconcile Tosh with her family by arranging a lunch for them. Her mother Judy (Jo Martin) comes, but her father makes an excuse, uncomfortable with Tosh's sexuality due to his Christian faith. Judy storms out when Tina tells her about their attempts to have a baby, upsetting Tosh further. Tina is devastated when Stan reveals that he is dying from prostate cancer, and is even more upset when she learns that Stan knew about his illness 3 years prior to him telling the family. She and Tosh urge Stan to see a private doctor, however he reveals that Stan's cancer is too aggressive to be cured, which leaves Tina distraught. Tina supports Sonia when she falls ill, and she confides in her that she spent the money from the charity calendar she organised on a gastric band in Bulgaria, to impress her husband Martin (James Bye). Tosh returns home while Sonia is hiding in Tina's room, but she manages to sneak out before Tosh realises. When Martin fails to turn up to the Christmas party for Sonia's group \"Fat Blasters\", Sonia decides to announce her actions but Tina urges her not to; however, before she can, she collapses. When the paramedics arrive, Tina reveals Sonia has had an operation to fit a gastric band, which shocks Carol and Martin. Babe leads Tosh to believe that Tina is having an affair with Sonia and when Tina denies this, Tosh viciously beats her. The next day, Tina decides that she cannot forgive Tosh for what she has done and thinks it best to move back to the Vic, while Tosh leaves Walford when Tina breaks up with her. Mick stops Tina assisting Stan's requested suicide. Tina is devastated by Stan's death and delivers the eulogy. Tina and Sonia become partners, splitting up briefly when Tina finds out Sonia cheated with her estranged husband Martin. They reconcile when Sonia helps Linda after she goes into premature labour.\n\nTina and Sonia enjoy their relationship despite Tina's jealously. Sonia realises that she wants another child and tells Tina. Tina is shocked and tells Sonia that she does not want children after messing up with Zsa Zsa. Sonia is angry when Tina drunkenly embarrasses Sonia's daughter Bex Fowler (Jasmine Armfield) when she is singing in public. When Sonia and her co-workers win a Pride of Walford award, Sonia decides she does not want to speak but Tina, drunk again, takes the microphone and humiliates Sonia by revealing she had previously stolen charity money. Tina and Sonia argue, and Tina then confides in Sophie Dodd (Poppy Rush) and they kiss and then have sex. She goes to Mick for advice and when she returns home, she starts packing but Sonia then appears and reveals that she has found a lump on her breast so decides not to tell Sonia about Sophie. However, when she goes home, Sophie is with Sonia, asking why Tina has not replied to her messages and has told Sonia everything. Sonia shouts at Tina to leave, but after they talk, they reunite and Tina promises to discuss her feelings and help out more. Sonia tells Tina that she wants a double mastectomy regardless of the result of her tests.\n\nTina is fired from the café when her bosses Ian Beale (Adam Woodyatt) and Jane Beale (Laurie Brett) decide to sell their restaurant, but eventually they decide not to sell and Tina gets her job back. Sonia starts to have doubts about her relationship with Tina. Sonia returns from a doctor's appointment to discover that Tina has moved her mother, Sylvie Carter (Linda Marlowe), who suffers from Alzheimer's disease, into the house. Sonia vows to tell Tina their relationship is over but when Tina says she wants to care for Sylvie, Sonia promises to help. However, when Sonia arranges a Carter family dinner for Sylvie's sake, Martin tells her that Tina is not treating her properly. Martin tells Tina to be there for Sonia, mentioning Sonia's elective breast surgery that Tina did not know about. Tina asks Sonia about it, and Sonia says she cannot talk to Tina as she never acts grown up, so Tina insists that she can change. Tina considers asking Social Services for more help caring for Sylvie, but after a good day with her mother, Tina believes the family are the only people who should help, leaving Sonia frustrated. When Tina is forced to leave Sylvie alone, she becomes scared and bites Sonia when she gets home, but Sonia hides this from Tina. Later, Sonia admits to Dot Branning (June Brown) that she no longer loves Tina, and the next day, Sonia ends their relationship saying she has fallen out of love; Tina is devastated and cries to Linda. Sonia then leaves for a new job. Tina struggles to cope with caring for Sylvie and tells Shirley how lonely she feels; Shirley invites Tina and Sylvie to move in with her. Tina is later annoyed when she discovers Shirley is allowing Sylvie to sleep all day to avoid caring for her, and when Shirley goes to prison to help alleviate Mick's debts, Tina accuses her of doing so just to avoid Sylvie. Tina then struggles on her own, and eventually decides to place her in care. The day before she is due to be asseessed, Tina throws Sylvie a party. After Tina puts Sylvie to bed that night, she gets in the bath and ends up being electrocuted. Tina is devastated by her mother's death and is then forced to move out of the flat, so she stays with Michelle Fowler (Jenna Russell) for a while, before moving into The Vic.\n\nTina is attacked by a group of men with knives but she escapes in her car. Shaken, Tina accidentally hits someone with her car but she drives off, thinking it was Dot's cat, Dave, unaware the person she hit was Billy's daughter, Janet Mitchell (Grace). When Tina finds out that she ran over Janet, she becomes plagued with guilt. She confides in Shirley, who orders Tina not to go to the police. When Billy and his fiancée, Honey Mitchell (Emma Barton), have an argument, Billy finds solace in Tina and they spend the night together. The next morning, Billy feels guilty and begs Tina not to tell Honey. Tina agrees, not wanting to destroy Billy's relationship after putting his daughter in hospital. Tina confesses to Billy that she hit Janet. Billy agrees to accompany Tina to the police station, but Shirley stops them, declaring that if Tina confesses to the police, she will tell Honey about their one-night-stand. Shirley later gives Tina a ticket to Spain for two weeks. Although Tina doesn't want to go, Shirley forces her to leave, saying she needs to clear her head. When she returns, Tina tells Shirley she could be pregnant by Billy, but a pregnancy test is negative.\n\nTina is involved in the break-up of Billy and Honey after a mix-up in the launderette when Honey receives Linda's underwear with her own washing, and sees Billy and Tina hugging, then accuses Billy of having an affair with Tina, forcing Billy to admit to the one-night stand. Shirley sees Honey and Tina talking and assumes that Honey knows Tina hit Janet so reveals this. Tina helps a pregnant girl, Georgi (Holly Donovan), in the café and finds out she is a friend of Zsa Zsa's. Tina delivers Georgi's baby and then calls Zsa Zsa. Tina tries to reunite Billy and Honey but it backfires when Honey flirts with Jack instead. Tina then visits Zsa Zsa and when she returns, Stuart Highway (Ricky Champ), an old friend of Mick's, is visiting the Carters. She goes with him to a 1980s night and he is annoyed when she gets a woman's phone number instead of him so he requests the song \"We Call It Acieed\" and when it plays, Tina has a terrifying flashback. Tina breaks down at work; she tells Sonia that when she was 19 or 20, she would play a game with Stuart and his friends that involved mild \"torture\", but once she was locked in a car boot, tied up and gagged, and feared she would die when she smelt burning; Tina realises that the same song was playing in the car that day and believes that Stuart is responsible. She tells Stuart this, but he says it must have been someone else and he will find out who it was, to which Tina agrees. Sonia encourages Tina to tell Mick about what happened to her but when she goes to tell him, Stuart has already spoken to him and Linda. Mick says he will help find out who did it, Stuart mentions that Tina was called a \"slag\" by the person who did it despite her not telling him, so she accuses him again but he still denies it. Tina gets drunk in the club and gets angry when someone calls her a \"slag\", she goes missing and Billy tells the Carters what happened in the club. Linda later finds Tina at the police station. Mick then overhears as Tina tells Linda that it was Stuart. Mick finds Tina's old diary and they recall what else happened that day; they remember getting new football kits and Tina recalls her abuser wearing shirt number 9, which Mick says Stuart was wearing that day. Mick confronts Stuart who still denies everything. Stuart keys his own car, claiming that Tina has done it, and accuses her of starting a hate campaign against him. He makes various threats and teases her, saying she is lying about everything and that one day she will wake up in the boot of a car again. He sings \"We Call It Acieed\" whilst goading her with a wrench, which she takes and whacks him on the head with it, knocking him out. Tina is arrested and tells the police about being locked in the car but they ignore this as she has no witnesses. Tina is released while Stuart tells various people that Tina attacked him. Stuart decides to flip a coin to decide if he should retract his statement, while Mick tries to track down old friends to find witnesses for Tina. Stuart comes to the Vic and says he was going to withdraw his statement but Shirley attacks Stuart and he proclaims that Tina will go down. However, one of Mick's old friends, Dylan Box (Ricci Harnett), visits and says Stuart once did the same to him as he did to Tina and has already reported him to the police. Stuart is arrested but continues to deny everything.\n\nTina was introduced as the sister of established regular character Shirley Carter (Linda Henry), who has appeared on the show since 2006. Tina's daughter Zsa Zsa Carter previously appeared in 2010, played by Emer Kenny, and mentioned her mother as living in Spain with her new husband. Two days before the character's arrival was announced, Treadwell-Collins posted a photo to Twitter of a bomber jacket with the name Tina on the back, sparking speculation that Shirley's sister had been cast. The casting of Luisa Bradshaw-White was announced on 19 September 2013, around two months before her first on-screen appearance.\n\nTina is described as 'loud, brash, cheeky and full of energy', with the potential to lead Shirley astray. Bradshaw-White expressed her excitement over the role, commenting that she was particularly excited as 'the energy between Tina and Shirley is explosive'. The role was changed for Bradshaw-White; Tina was initially described as 'an overweight 50-year-old who's past it'. Tina first appeared when Phil Mitchell (Steve McFadden) tracked her sister Shirley to her rundown flat, after she had been forced out of Walford by bad boy Carl White (Daniel Coonan). He convinced Shirley to return with him, and Tina followed soon after, escaping an abusive ex-girlfriend, Tosh; Rebecca Scroggs was introduced in this role in February of the following year.\n\nTina was introduced as the first of a new set of Carters, the family of Shirley, and therefore has a large amount of on-screen interaction with her family. Executive producer Dominic Treadwell-Collins compared Tina to her sister Shirley, saying that she was 'loud and brash' like her. She also seems to be a liability like Shirley, having parented Zsa Zsa badly and letting her fly of the handle at times. Despite this, Tina is more forgiving than her sister; for example, she forgives their father Stan Carter, played by Timothy West, for his bad parenting and alcoholism when they were children, whereas Shirley still holds a grudge against him. She has a good relationship with her nephew Mick (Danny Dyer) and his family, and shares a flat at one time with Shirley's son Dean Wicks (Matt Di Angelo).\n\nTina became friends with Sonia Fowler, played by Natalie Cassidy, when she returned to the soap. Sonia, who was experiencing troubles in her marriage, received counsel from kindly Sonia and they shared a kiss, as Sonia is bisexual. However, due to her relationship with Tosh Mackintosh, the kiss went no further. Bradshaw-White revealed that fans wanted her character and Sonia to become a couple, due to their equally kindly nature. However, their friendship ended when Tosh found out about the kiss and ordered them to cut ties.\n\nTina's past relationship with an abusive ex-girlfriend was hinted at when she was introduced. On 9 February 2014, it was announced Rebecca Scroggs would play Tosh Mackintosh, her firefighter ex who she would reconcile with. Tina tracked down Tosh after realising she still loved her. About their relationship, Scroggs said that 'there's something about Tina that Tosh is really drawn to', but Tina's family 'put pressure' on their relationship. Shirley was Tosh's main advisory and locked Tina in the lounge of the Vic to try and stop her seeing Tosh after a memorable showdown in which Tosh sprayed Shirley to the ground with her fireman's hose. Despite turbulence in their relationship, Scroggs insisted that 'the love between Tina and Tosh is very real'. Bradshaw-White admitted that both her and Scroggs struggled to find the chemistry with Tina and Tosh, due to their drawn out fictional history.\n\nSeveral months into their relationship, Tosh was seen pushing to Tina to have a baby. Bradshaw-White said that Tosh pressures Tina into having a baby, telling her 'either they start a family - or she goes'. Tina was a bad mother to her daughter Zsa Zsa due to being addicted to drugs at the time, but Tosh insisted that Tina would be a better mother now as she 'really mothers everyone in the family'. It was reported that Tosh would become pregnant, but she was seen to lose the baby soon afterwards. This caused Tosh to become violent towards Tina again, hitting her on two separate occasions. Of the latter, more extreme attack, Jo Harvey Barringer of the Broken Rainbow UK commented that 'the violent punch Tosh (dealt) was calculated to put Tina in her place and to punish Tina for challenging Tosh's dominance in the relationship; a reminder that Tosh was in control and held all the power'.\n\nIn a poll from Digital Spy soon after Tina's introduction, Tina was voted the fourth favourite new Carter, behind Mick (Dyer), Johnny (Sam Strike) and Nancy (Maddy Hill). \"EastEnders\" and Bradshaw-White have been praised for the Tina and Tosh domestic violence story by the charity Broken Rainbow UK, who said that the story helped \"portray the very real experiences our service users tell us about\" in the LGBT community. The relationship between Tina and Sonia has also been praised by fans, who prefer Sonia to Tosh. In July 2018, Bradshaw-White was longlisted for the \"Best Actress\" award at The Inside Soap Awards. She did not progress to the viewer-voted shortlist.\n\n"}
{"id": "33734529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33734529", "title": "Visual arts", "text": "Visual arts\n\nThe visual arts are art forms such as ceramics, drawing, painting, sculpture, printmaking, design, crafts, photography, video, filmmaking, and architecture. Many artistic disciplines (performing arts, conceptual art, textile arts) involve aspects of the visual arts as well as arts of other types. Also included within the visual arts are the applied arts such as industrial design, graphic design, fashion design, interior design and decorative art.\n\nCurrent usage of the term \"visual arts\" includes fine art as well as the applied, decorative arts and crafts, but this was not always the case. Before the Arts and Crafts Movement in Britain and elsewhere at the turn of the 20th century, the term 'artist' was often restricted to a person working in the fine arts (such as painting, sculpture, or printmaking) and not the handicraft, craft, or applied art media. The distinction was emphasized by artists of the Arts and Crafts Movement, who valued vernacular art forms as much as high forms. Art schools made a distinction between the fine arts and the crafts, maintaining that a craftsperson could not be considered a practitioner of the arts.\n\nThe increasing tendency to privilege painting, and to a lesser degree sculpture, above other arts has been a feature of Western art as well as East Asian art. In both regions painting has been seen as relying to the highest degree on the imagination of the artist, and the furthest removed from manual labour – in Chinese painting the most highly valued styles were those of \"scholar-painting\", at least in theory practiced by gentleman amateurs. The Western hierarchy of genres reflected similar attitudes.\n\nTraining in the visual arts has generally been through variations of the apprentice and workshop systems. In Europe the Renaissance movement to increase the prestige of the artist led to the academy system for training artists, and today most of the people who are pursuing a career in arts train in art schools at tertiary levels. Visual arts have now become an elective subject in most education systems.\n\nDrawing is a means of making an image, using any of a wide variety of tools and techniques. It generally involves making marks on a surface by applying pressure from a tool, or moving a tool across a surface using dry media such as graphite pencils, pen and ink, inked brushes, wax color pencils, crayons, charcoals, pastels, and markers. Digital tools that simulate the effects of these are also used. The main techniques used in drawing are: line drawing, hatching, crosshatching, random hatching, scribbling, stippling, and blending. An artist who excels in drawing is referred to as a \"draftsman\" or \"draughtsman\".\n\nDrawing goes back at least 16,000 years to Paleolithic cave representations of animals such as those at Lascaux in France and Altamira in Spain. In ancient Egypt, ink drawings on papyrus, often depicting people, were used as models for painting or sculpture. Drawings on Greek vases, initially geometric, later developed to the human form with black-figure pottery during the 7th century BC.\n\nWith paper becoming common in Europe by the 15th century, drawing was adopted by masters such as Sandro Botticelli, Raphael, Michelangelo, and Leonardo da Vinci who sometimes treated drawing as an art in its own right rather than a preparatory stage for painting or sculpture.\n\nPainting taken literally is the practice of applying pigment suspended in a carrier (or medium) and a binding agent (a glue) to a surface (support) such as paper, canvas or a wall. However, when used in an artistic sense it means the use of this activity in combination with drawing, composition, or other aesthetic considerations in order to manifest the expressive and conceptual intention of the practitioner. Painting is also used to express spiritual motifs and ideas; sites of this kind of painting range from artwork depicting mythological figures on pottery to The Sistine Chapel to the human body itself.\n\nLike drawing, painting has its documented origins in caves and on rock faces. The finest examples, believed by some to be 32,000 years old, are in the Chauvet and Lascaux caves in southern France. In shades of red, brown, yellow and black, the paintings on the walls and ceilings are of bison, cattle, horses and deer.\nPaintings of human figures can be found in the tombs of ancient Egypt. In the great temple of Ramses II, Nefertari, his queen, is depicted being led by Isis. The Greeks contributed to painting but much of their work has been lost. One of the best remaining representations are the Hellenistic Fayum mummy portraits. Another example is mosaic of the Battle of Issus at Pompeii, which was probably based on a Greek painting. Greek and Roman art contributed to Byzantine art in the 4th century BC, which initiated a tradition in icon painting.\n\nApart from the illuminated manuscripts produced by monks during the Middle Ages, the next significant contribution to European art was from Italy's renaissance painters. From Giotto in the 13th century to Leonardo da Vinci and Raphael at the beginning of the 16th century, this was the richest period in Italian art as the \"chiaroscuro\" techniques were used to create the illusion of 3-D space.\nPainters in northern Europe too were influenced by the Italian school. Jan van Eyck from Belgium, Pieter Bruegel the Elder from the Netherlands and Hans Holbein the Younger from Germany are among the most successful painters of the times. They used the glazing technique with oils to achieve depth and luminosity.\n\nThe 17th century witnessed the emergence of the great Dutch masters such as the versatile Rembrandt who was especially remembered for his portraits and Bible scenes, and Vermeer who specialized in interior scenes of Dutch life.\n\nThe Baroque started after the Renaissance, from the late 16th century to the late 17th century. Main artists of the Baroque included Caravaggio, who made heavy use of tenebrism. Peter Paul Rubens was a flemish painter who studied in Italy, worked for local churches in Antwerp and also painted a series for Marie de' Medici. Annibale Carracci took influences from the Sistine Chapel and created the genre of illusionistic ceiling painting. Much of the development that happened in the Baroque was because of the Protestant Reformation and the resulting Counter Reformation. Much of what defines the Baroque is dramatic lighting and overall visuals.\n\nImpressionism began in France in the 19th century with a loose association of artists including Claude Monet, Pierre-Auguste Renoir and Paul Cézanne who brought a new freely brushed style to painting, often choosing to paint realistic scenes of modern life outside rather than in the studio. This was achieved through a new expression of aesthetic features demonstrated by brush strokes and the impression of reality. They achieved intense colour vibration by using pure, unmixed colours and short brush strokes. The movement influenced art as a dynamic, moving through time and adjusting to new found techniques and perception of art. Attention to detail became less of a priority in achieving, whilst exploring a biased view of landscapes and nature to the artists eye.\n\nTowards the end of the 19th century, several young painters took impressionism a stage further, using geometric forms and unnatural colour to depict emotions while striving for deeper symbolism. Of particular note are Paul Gauguin, who was strongly influenced by Asian, African and Japanese art, Vincent van Gogh, a Dutchman who moved to France where he drew on the strong sunlight of the south, and Toulouse-Lautrec, remembered for his vivid paintings of night life in the Paris district of Montmartre.\n\nEdvard Munch, a Norwegian artist, developed his symbolistic approach at the end of the 19th century, inspired by the French impressionist Manet. \"The Scream\" (1893), his most famous work, is widely interpreted as representing the universal anxiety of modern man. Partly as a result of Munch's influence, the German expressionist movement originated in Germany at the beginning of the 20th century as artists such as Ernst Kirschner and Erich Heckel began to distort reality for an emotional effect.\nIn parallel, the style known as cubism developed in France as artists focused on the volume and space of sharp structures within a composition. Pablo Picasso and Georges Braque were the leading proponents of the movement. Objects are broken up, analyzed, and re-assembled in an abstracted form. By the 1920s, the style had developed into surrealism with Dali and Magritte.\n\nPrintmaking is creating, for artistic purposes, an image on a matrix that is then transferred to a two-dimensional (flat) surface by means of ink (or another form of pigmentation). Except in the case of a monotype, the same matrix can be used to produce many examples of the print.\n\nHistorically, the major techniques (also called media) involved are woodcut, line engraving, etching, lithography, and screenprinting (serigraphy, silkscreening) but there are many others, including modern digital techniques. Normally, the print is printed on paper, but other mediums range from cloth and vellum to more modern materials. Major printmaking traditions include that of Japan (\"ukiyo-e\").\n\nPrints in the Western tradition produced before about 1830 are known as old master prints. In Europe, from around 1400 AD woodcut, was used for master prints on paper by using printing techniques developed in the Byzantine and Islamic worlds. Michael Wolgemut improved German woodcut from about 1475, and Erhard Reuwich, a Dutchman, was the first to use cross-hatching. At the end of the century Albrecht Dürer brought the Western woodcut to a stage that has never been surpassed, increasing the status of the single-leaf woodcut.\n\nIn China, the art of printmaking developed some 1,100 years ago as illustrations alongside text cut in woodblocks for printing on paper. Initially images were mainly religious but in the Song Dynasty, artists began to cut landscapes. During the Ming (1368–1644) and Qing (1616–1911) dynasties, the technique was perfected for both religious and artistic engravings.\n\nWoodblock printing in Japan (Japanese: 木版画, moku hanga) is a technique best known for its use in the ukiyo-e artistic genre; however, it was also used very widely for printing books in the same period. Woodblock printing had been used in China for centuries to print books, long before the advent of movable type, but was only widely adopted in Japan surprisingly late, during the Edo period (1603–1867). Although similar to woodcut in western printmaking in some regards, moku hanga differs greatly in that water-based inks are used (as opposed to western woodcut, which uses oil-based inks), allowing for a wide range of vivid color, glazes and color transparency.\n\nPhotography is the process of making pictures by means of the action of light. Light patterns reflected or emitted from objects are recorded onto a sensitive medium or storage chip through a timed exposure. The process is done through mechanical shutters or electronically timed exposure of photons into chemical processing or digitizing devices known as cameras.\n\nThe word comes from the Greek words φως \"phos\" (\"light\"), and γραφις \"graphis\" (\"stylus\", \"paintbrush\") or γραφη \"graphê\", together meaning \"drawing with light\" or \"representation by means of lines\" or \"drawing.\" Traditionally, the product of photography has been called a photograph. The term \"photo\" is an abbreviation; many people also call them \"pictures.\" In digital photography, the term \"image\" has begun to replace \"photograph.\" (The term \"image\" is traditional in geometric optics.)\n\nFilmmaking is the process of making a motion-picture, from an initial conception and research, through scriptwriting, shooting and recording, animation or other special effects, editing, sound and music work and finally distribution to an audience; it refers broadly to the creation of all types of films, embracing documentary, strains of theatre and literature in film, and poetic or experimental practices, and is often used to refer to video-based processes as well\n\nVisual artists are no longer limited to traditional art media. Computers have been used as an ever more common tool in the visual arts since the 1960s. Uses include the capturing or creating of images and forms, the editing of those images and forms (including exploring multiple compositions) and the final rendering or printing (including 3D printing).\n\nComputer art is any in which computers played a role in production or display. Such art can be an image, sound, animation, video, CD-ROM, DVD, video game, website, algorithm, performance or gallery installation. Many traditional disciplines are now integrating digital technologies and, as a result, the lines between traditional works of art and new media works created using computers have been blurred. For instance, an artist may combine traditional painting with algorithmic art and other digital techniques. As a result, defining computer art by its end product can be difficult. Nevertheless, this type of art is beginning to appear in art museum exhibits, though it has yet to prove its legitimacy as a form unto itself and this technology is widely seen in contemporary art more as a tool rather than a form as with painting.\n\nComputer usage has blurred the distinctions between illustrators, photographers, photo editors, 3-D modelers, and handicraft artists. Sophisticated rendering and editing software has led to multi-skilled image developers. Photographers may become digital artists. Illustrators may become animators. Handicraft may be computer-aided or use computer-generated imagery as a template. Computer clip art usage has also made the clear distinction between visual arts and page layout less obvious due to the easy access and editing of clip art in the process of paginating a document, especially to the unskilled observer.\n\nPlastic arts is a term for art forms that involve physical manipulation of a plastic medium by moulding or modeling such as sculpture or ceramics. The term has also been applied to \"all the visual (non-literary, non-musical) arts\".\n\nMaterials that can be carved or shaped, such as stone or wood, concrete or steel, have also been included in the narrower definition, since, with appropriate tools, such materials are also capable of modulation. This use of the term \"plastic\" in the arts should not be confused with Piet Mondrian's use, nor with the movement he termed, in French and English, \"Neoplasticism.\"\n\nSculpture is three-dimensional artwork created by shaping or combining hard or plastic material, sound, or text and or light, commonly stone (either rock or marble), clay, metal, glass, or wood. Some sculptures are created directly by finding or ; others are assembled, built together and fired, welded, molded, or cast. Sculptures are often painted.\nA person who creates sculptures is called a sculptor.\n\nBecause sculpture involves the use of materials that can be moulded or modulated, it is considered one of the plastic arts. The majority of public art is sculpture. Many sculptures together in a garden setting may be referred to as a sculpture garden.\n\nSculptors do not always make sculptures by hand. With increasing technology in the 20th century and the popularity of conceptual art over technical mastery, more sculptors turned to art fabricators to produce their artworks. With fabrication, the artist creates a design and pays a fabricator to produce it. This allows sculptors to create larger and more complex sculptures out of material like cement, metal and plastic, that they would not be able to create by hand. Sculptures can also be made with 3-d printing technology.\n\nIn the United States, the law protecting the copyright over a piece of visual art gives a more restrictive definition of \"visual art\".\n\nA “work of visual art” is —\n(1) a painting, drawing, print or sculpture, existing in a single copy, in a limited edition of 200 copies or fewer that are signed and consecutively numbered by the author, or, in the case of a sculpture, in multiple cast, carved, or fabricated sculptures of 200 or fewer that are consecutively numbered by the author and bear the signature or other identifying mark of the author; or\n(2) a still photographic image produced for exhibition purposes only, existing in a single copy that is signed by the author, or in a limited edition of 200 copies or fewer that are signed and consecutively numbered by the author.\nA work of visual art does not include —\n(A)(i) any poster, map, globe, chart, technical drawing, diagram, model, applied art, motion picture or other audiovisual work, book, magazine, newspaper, periodical, data base, electronic information service, electronic publication, or similar publication;\n  (ii) any merchandising item or advertising, promotional, descriptive, covering, or packaging material or container;\n  (iii) any portion or part of any item described in clause (i) or (ii);\n(B) any work made for hire; or\n(C) any work not subject to copyright protection under this title.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37512054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37512054", "title": "Witches of East End", "text": "Witches of East End\n\nWitches of East End is a 2011 novel by author Melissa de la Cruz and the first entry in her \"Beauchamp Family\" series. It was published on June 21, 2011, by Hyperion Books and follows a family of Long Island witches struggling against dark forces conspiring against them. \"Witches of East End\" is de la Cruz's first adult novel; she said she wrote it with her Blue Bloods audience in mind because \"many of them will soon be adults\" and the book takes place in the same universe as the \"Blue Bloods\" series. The novel currently has two sequels: \"Serpent's Kiss\" (2012) and \"Winds of Salem\" (2013).\n\nA television series adaptation, \"Witches of East End\", debuted October 6, 2013, on Lifetime.\n\nJoanna Beauchamp has lived off the coast of Long Island for many centuries. She and her daughters Freya and Ingrid are immortal witches, cursed to spend the rest of their days without the use of their substantial powers due to the family's involvement in the Salem Witch Trials. Joanna has the power to heal and bring the dead back to life. Ingrid can tell the future and weave magical knotwork, while Freya can craft potions and charms. They've spent years hiding their true nature from others, something that provides no small amount of frustration due to how much they want to help others. It's only after Freya becomes engaged to the mysterious Bran (Branford) Gardiner (this character was renamed Dash in the TV series), and somehow becomes unwillingly infatuated with his brother Killian, that the Beauchamps seem to start breaking their curse, and slowly begin to cast magic once again. However one small spell turns into several as the Beauchamps begin to fall into the routine of using magic. It's through this everyday usage that they discover that a mysterious presence is at work within the town, making the women barren, unleashing a strange silvery substance into the waters, and ruining the local wildlife.\n\nAs Bran is continually away on trips to promote a charitable organisation that his family runs, Freya is often left alone with Killian. This closeness eventually culminates in her once again sleeping with Killian after he assists her with a busy weekend at the pub she works at. While Freya deals with the guilt from her affair and the feelings that her affair with Killian brings up, Ingrid is conflicted by her own romantic feelings towards local police officer Matt Noble. Despite exhibiting an interest in her, Matt has begun dating a coworker, which irritates Ingrid greatly. The townspeople's ailments and the mysterious silver substance in the water eventually prompts Johanna to seek her estranged husband Norman (this character was renamed Viktor in the TV series) in New York, leaving her daughters alone to deal with a growing unrest in the town as a whole. The family is eventually charged with various crimes involving an attack on a local couple as well as the disappearance of a young woman that was interning at the mayor's office.\n\nThe Beauchamps eventually discover that the chaos stems from an old rivalry between Loki and Balder over Freya. It's also revealed that the entire family are gods from Norse mythology and that the silvery substance comes from the breaking down of the rifts between worlds. Freya initially believes that Killian is Loki, here to disrupt her relationship with Bran, only to discover that Bran is actually Loki and that his trips were not for charitable purposes but to encourage the destruction of the gates between the worlds. Freya and Ingrid travel into the rift to stop Loki, managing to barely succeed and return home. Once home, they are told that the Council has noticed their magic and that if they can avoid getting convicted of the crimes against them, they will be free to practice magic once more. The Beauchamps are cleared of all charges, the intern's disappearance and death being a result of the mayor's obsession with her and the attack on a local couple being the actions of Bran. Freya and Ingrid have both begun relationships with their partners, with the book ending as Freya's brother approaching her for assistance in capturing Balder/Killian, who he claims tricked him into being imprisoned for the destruction of the Bifröst, which was done by Balder.\n\nCritical reception to \"Witches of East End\" has been mostly positive, with \"Entertainment Weekly\" giving the book a rating of B+. The \"Los Angeles Times\" commented that the book was not perfect, but that it still managed to \"cast a spell\". Criticisms for the novel included a \"clumsily executed resolution\" and too much \"arcane gobbledygook\", while praise for the novel centered around the mixture of mythologies \"gel[ling] magnificently\" and de la Cruz's depiction of the Beauchamp women.\n\nIn 2012, Lifetime announced their intentions to film a television pilot for \"Witches of East End\" with 20th Century Fox and Pacific 2.1. Filming for the pilot took place in Macon, Georgia and Wilmington, North Carolina, with Julia Ormond starring as Joanna Beauchamp. Rachel Boston and Jenna Dewan-Tatum were later announced as being attached to the pilot, playing Ingrid and Freya respectively. The pilot loosely adapted the book's plot, with one change being that Freya and Ingrid are unaware of their magical powers or heritage.\n\nAfter two seasons, Lifetime cancelled \"Witches of East End\" on November 4, 2014, due to low ratings in the second season. The series finale aired on October 5, 2014. Fans of the show have taken to social media and began using the hashtag #RenewWitchesofEastEnd, as well as starting a petition that has gained over 230,000 signatures.\n"}
{"id": "11520304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11520304", "title": "With Women", "text": "With Women\n\nWith Women: Midwives experiences: from shift work to continuity of care is the fourth book from Australian writer David Vernon.\n\nThe book is an edited anthology of midwives' experiences of moving from providing care in a shift work environment to providing care in a continuity-of-care model. The experiences described are diverse, ranging from descriptions of workplace bullying and abuse to autonomous practice within a team environment working with obstetricians.\n\nThe book has a preface written by Sheila Kitzinger, a foreword by Dr Sally Tracy, and conclusions written by Justine Caines and Dr Jenny Gamble.\n\nThe book was released on 31 May 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "34093238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34093238", "title": "Young Slave", "text": "Young Slave\n\nThe Young Slave (Italian: \"Schiavo giovane\") is a marble sculpture of Michelangelo, datable to around 1525–1530 which is conserved in the Galleria dell'Accademia in Florence. It is part of the \"unfinished\" series of \"Prigioni\" intended for the Tomb of Julius II.\n\nIt seems that from the first version of the tomb of Julius II (1505) a series of \"Prigioni\" was planned for the lowest level of the mausoleum – a series of more-than-life-size statues of chained figures in various poses, leaning on the pilasters which framed a set of niches, each of which would contain a \"winged Victory\". With one on each side of each niche, it must have been initially intended for there to be sixteen or twenty Prigioni. In the course of the reductions of the project which followed, this was reduced to twelve (second project, 1513), eight (third project, 1516) and finally perhaps a mere four (fourth or fifth version, 1526 or 1532), before they were completely eliminated from the project in 1542. According to de Tolnay (1951, 1954) the \"Young Slave\" was intended for the space left of the central niche in the project of 1516.\n\nThe first examples of the series are the two \"Prigioni\" of Paris, which are mentioned in Michelangelo's letters and were named the \"Slaves\" (\"Schiavi\") in the 19th century: the \"Dying Slave\" and the \"Rebellious Slave\". They were sculpted in Rome around 1513.\n\nThe Florentine \"Prigioni\" (The \"Young Slave\", the \"Bearded Slave\", the \"Atlas Slave\", and the \"Awakening Slave\") were probably sculpted in the latter half of the 1520s, when Michelangelo was employed at San Lorenzo in Florence (but historians have suggested dates between 1519 and 1534). They are known to have been in the artist's store on the via Mozza until 1544, when Michelangelo's nephew, Leonardo Buonarroti, asked for permission to sell them (Michelangelo did not set foot in Florence after 1534). This permission was denied and it was only in 1564 that they were sold, along with \"The Genius of Victory\" to the Grand Duke Cosimo I, who placed them in the four corners of the Grotto of Buontalenti before 1591. They were removed from there in 1908 to join the Michelangelo collection which had been formed in the Florentine gallery.\n\nRegarding the date of their creation, Justi (and others) have proposed 1519 on the basis of a letter of 13 February in which Jacopo Salviati assured the cardinal Aginesis, heir of Pope Julius II that the sculptor would have produced four figures for the tomb before the summer of that year. Wilde proposed 1523, because there is a reference to the cardinal Giulio de' Medici (the future Clement VII) having seen them before he left for Rome on that date. However de Tolnay dated them to 1530–1534, based on stylistic factors, the frequent mentions of unfinished sculptures for the tomb of Pope Julius in Michelangelo's letters of 1531–1532 and because Vasari mentions that they were made while Michelangelo prepared the cartoon of \"The Last Judgment\".\n\nA wax bozzetto of the work at the Victoria and Albert Museum in London is generally considered to have been made by Michelangelo himself.\n\nThe \"Young Slave\" has slightly bent knees as if bearing an enormous force bearing down his back. His left arm is raised to cover his face and his right arm is behind his back, held by a chain which is not visible. The figure is among the most complete of the group and shows clear definition in his legs, torso (especially on the left hand side) and his arms. His hands and head are less worked, while the back is completely unsculpted. The whole surface gives clear traces of the chisels and scrapers used in the sculpting process.\n\nBecause of its unfinished state it has an extraordinary energy (already noted by Bocchi in 1591), which connects the figure to some kind of primordial act of liberation from its prison of crude stone – an epic battle with chaos. The meaning of the \"Prigioni\" was probably linked to the motif of the \"Captivi\" in Roman art. In fact, Vasari identifies them as personifications of the provinces controlled by Julius II. For Condivi, however, they symbolised the Arts, turned into \"prisoners\" after the Pope's death. Other scholars have made suggested philosophical-symbolic meanings or links to the personal life of the artist and his \"torments\".\n\n\n\n"}
