{"id": "19045052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19045052", "title": "2-Methylfuran", "text": "2-Methylfuran\n\n2-Methylfuran is a flammable, water-insoluble liquid with a chocolate odor, found naturally in Myrtle and Dutch Lavender\nused as a FEMA GRAS flavoring substance, with the potential for use in alternative fuels.\n\n2-Methylfuran is an article of commerce (chemical intermediate) and is normally manufactured by catalytic hydrogenolyis of furfural alcohol or via a hydrogenation-hydrogenolysis sequence from furfural in the vapor phase.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9393403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9393403", "title": "2007 plot to behead a British Muslim soldier", "text": "2007 plot to behead a British Muslim soldier\n\nThe 2007 plot to behead a British Muslim soldier was a plot in Birmingham, England, to kidnap and behead a British Muslim soldier in order to undermine the morale of the British Army and inhibit its recruitment of Muslims. The instigator, Parviz Khan, admitted the plot and was sentenced to life imprisonment, to serve at least 14 years. Another of the accused was found guilty of failing to report the plot and four others were sentenced to up to seven years for supplying equipment to Pakistan-based militants fighting coalition forces in Afghanistan.\n\nShortly after the arrests, reports appeared in a number of newspapers with details of the plot, citing unnamed security sources. According to the newspaper reports, the plot involved kidnapping a British Muslim soldier and taking him either to a run-down house in Leatherhead Close, Aston, Birmingham, believed to be owned by the wife of suspect Zahoor Iqbal or a safe house in Tipton, nine miles from Birmingham. There, he would be blindfolded, handcuffed, made to demand the withdrawal of troops from Iraq, and then he would be killed. A video of this would be released on the Internet. On a password-protected Internet forum affiliated with Al-Qaeda, the plotters were told: \"It is preferable if you photograph or video the operation so that it can have a bigger set of viewers and can be used by the media.\" Some newspaper reports also said that the group spent months compiling a hit list of 25 potential targets.\n\nFour people were separately accused of supplying equipment on four occasions to Pakistan-based militants fighting the International Security Assistance Force in Afghanistan. They had used the 2005 Kashmir earthquake as a cover to ship anglers' gloves used by snipers, sleeping bags, boots, waterproof map holders, laser rangefinders, anti-bugging equipment, video cameras and mobile phones.\n\nFor six months, British police forces and intelligence agencies, under the codename Operation Gamble, had been investigating the plot. They had hoped to investigate for another two months before making arrests, but when one of the suspects purchased a video camera it was feared that this was done in preparation for the kidnapping, so the police brought forward their decision to make the arrests.\n\nOn January 31, 2007, just before 4:00 am, more than 700 police officers raided eight homes and four businesses, including a corner store, two Islamic bookstores and an internet cafe. Eight men were arrested then, with a ninth arrested later in the afternoon while driving into Birmingham.\n\nThe sentencing judge described the leaking of information to the media at the time of the arrests as being a \"very grave contempt of court\". An inquiry by the Metropolitan Police failed to discover the source of these leaks. The civil liberties organisation Liberty said these leaks risked \"undermining the work of police and prosecutors and jeopardising the trust and safety of the public\".\n\nIn February 2008, five men were sentenced after admitting or being found guilty of these allegations.\n\nGassama was born in Mansaringsu, Brikama, Gambia. He attended madrasahs in Gambia and Senegal, and continued his education in Saudi Arabia. He then moved to the UK and acquired citizenship. He is married to the daughter of a former Gambian Foreign Affairs minister whose name was withheld from the press. His brother was arrested in March 2006 in Banjul, Gambia as a suspect in a plot to overthrow Gambian president Yahya Jammeh. He lived in Hodge Hill, Birmingham at the time of his arrest and worked at Khan's General Store.\n\nIqbal was a 29-year-old teacher who lives in Kingstanding, north Birmingham. He taught Information Technology part-time at Saltley School, a specialist science college.\n\nAmjad Mahmood of Birmingham was acquitted of all charges after a separate trial.\n\n"}
{"id": "24072282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24072282", "title": "3D floor plan", "text": "3D floor plan\n\nA 3D floor plan, or 3D floorplan, is a virtual model of a building floor plan, depicted from a birds eye view, utilized within the building industry to better convey architectural plans. Usually built to scale, a 3D floor plan must include walls and a floor and typically includes exterior wall fenestrations, windows, and doorways. It does not include a ceiling so as not to obstruct the view. Other common attributes may be added, but are not required, such as cabinets, flooring, bathroom fixtures, paint color, wall tile, and other interior finishes. Furniture may be added to assist in communicating proper home staging and interior design.\n\n3D floor plans assist real estate marketers and architects in explaining floor plans to clients. Their simplicity allows individuals unfamiliar with conventional floor plans to understand difficult architectural concepts. This allows architects and homeowners to literally see design elements prior to construction and alter design elements during the design phase. 3D floorplans are often commissioned by architects, builders, hotels, universities, real estate agents, and property owners to assist in relating their floor plans to clients.\n\nA 3D floor plan is built utilizing advanced 3D rendering software, the same type of software used to create major animated motion pictures. Through complex lighting, staging, camera, and rendering techniques 3D floor plans appear to be real photographs rather than digital representations of the buildings after which they are modeled. It is also the presentation of building floor-plan in an advanced manner, bringing it to real life views.\n\nWebGL allows many companies to provide their users with unique 3D experiences right in their web browser. In addition, since 2014, WebVR helps make Virtual Reality experiences accessible to wider audiences. 3D floor plans can now be visited via Google Cardboard or various VR headsets. Due to the increasing popularity of VR content, many real estate professionals (real estate firms, developers, online platforms) are turning to 3D models of spaces to improve their marketing efforts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28195785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28195785", "title": "ACE Electoral Knowledge Network", "text": "ACE Electoral Knowledge Network\n\nThe ACE Electoral Knowledge Network is a web portal with information on elections designed to meet the needs of people working in the electoral field.\n\nThe goal of the ACE network is to provide knowledge to people working in the field elections, with the intention of supporting credible and transparent electoral processes with emphasis on sustainability, professionalism and trust.\n\nMost activities of the ACE network are carried out through the ACE website. The website is divided into a number of sections:\n\nThe full website is fully available in English while much content is also available in Spanish, French, Arabic and Russian.\n\nPart of ACE is the Practitioners' Network – an online community of experts in the field of elections. The members of the Practitioners’ Network share a private online platform where they discuss electoral issues, exchange experiences and connect to fellow experts. Any user can submit a question to the Practitioners’ Network; the question will be discussed among the experts and the expert replies forwarded to the user.\n\nThe Practitioners’ Network is open to applications; membership of the network is free but members are required to have “several years of experience of working in a senior position for one or a number of organisations within the electoral field” and/or “proven expertise” in a specific area of elections.\n\nThe ACE network was created in 1998 as the ACE (Administration and Cost of Elections) Project by International IDEA, IFES and UNDESA. At this time, the project focused solely on election administration with the aim to create an encyclopaedia with texts on how to administer electoral processes. However, the project developed further into a more interactive network with a focus wider than just electoral administration. In 2006, to reflect the new identity of the project, the name was changed to the ACE Electoral Knowledge Network (with the letters ACE no longer standing for Administration and Cost of Elections).\n\nACE is a collaboration between nine Partner Organisations: International Institute for Democracy and Electoral Assistance (International IDEA), Electoral Institute for the Sustainability of Democracy in Africa (EISA), Elections Canada, the Federal Electoral Institute of Mexico (IFE), International Foundation for Electoral Systems (IFES) and the UN agencies UNDESA, UNDP and UNEAD. The European Commission is an \"ex officio\" member.\n\nThe highest decision-making body of ACE is the Steering Board, consisting of representatives from the Partner Organisations. The day-to-day management of the project is carried out by the ACE Secretariat, currently hosted by International IDEA. The Secretariat is assisted in its tasks by the Programme Advisory Board with representatives from the ACE Partner Organisations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "435620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=435620", "title": "Alliance for Germany", "text": "Alliance for Germany\n\nThe Alliance for Germany () was an opposition coalition in East Germany. It was formed on 5 February 1990 in Berlin (then West Berlin) to stand in the East-German Volkskammer elections. It consisted of the Christian Democratic Union, Democratic Awakening and the German Social Union. The German Forum Party was invited to join, but refused.\n\nThe Alliance won the most votes in the election, winning 48.2% of votes cast (CDU 40.9%; DSU 6.3%; DA 0.9%), and would control 192 of 400 seats in the Volkskammer. It formed the interim-government in East Germany until German Reunification. Lothar de Maizière from the CDU was minister-president. \n"}
{"id": "4586128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4586128", "title": "American Peace Society", "text": "American Peace Society\n\nThe American Peace Society is a pacifist group founded upon the initiative of William Ladd, in New York City, May 8, 1828. It was formed by the merging of many state and local societies, from New York, Maine, New Hampshire, and Massachusetts, of which the oldest, the New York Peace Society, dated from 1815. Ladd was an advocate of a \"Congress and High Court of Nations.\" The society organized peace conferences and regularly published a periodical entitled Advocate of Peace.\nThe Society was only opposed to wars between nation states; it did not oppose the American Civil War,\nregarding the Union's war as a \"police action\" against the \"criminals\" of\nthe Confederacy. \n\nThe American Peace Society house, its headquarters from 1911 to 1948 near the White House, is a U.S. National Historic Landmark.\nThe American Peace Society was opposed to Zionism.\n\nAs of 1834 the society operated from headquarters on Wall Street in New York City. In Boston it worked from offices on Cornhill (ca.1840s-1850s); Chauncey Street (ca.1864); Winter Street (ca.1868-1869); and Somerset Street (ca.1870s-1890s). Annual meetings took place in various venues in Boston, including Park Street Church (1851). Officers included George C. Beckwith, William Jay, Howard Malcom, John Field, William C. Brown.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14498977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14498977", "title": "Automated valuation model", "text": "Automated valuation model\n\nAutomated valuation model (AVM) is the name given to a service that can provide real estate property valuations using mathematical modelling combined with a database. Most AVMs calculate a property’s value at a specific point in time by analyzing values of comparable properties. Some also take into account previous surveyor valuations, historical house price movements and user inputs (e.g. number of bedrooms, property improvements, etc.).\n\nAppraisers, investment professionals and lending institutions use AVM technology in their analysis of residential property. An AVM is a residential valuation report that can be obtained in a matter of seconds. It is a technology-driven report. The product of an automated valuation technology comes from analysis of public record data and computer decision logic combined to provide a calculated estimate of a probable selling price of a residential property. An AVM generally uses a combination of two types of evaluation, a hedonic model and a repeat sales index. The results of each are weighted, analyzed and then reported as a final estimate of value based on a requested date.\n\nAn AVM typically includes:\n\nIn the late 1990s, this technology was used primarily by institutional investors to determine risk when purchasing collateralized mortgage loans.\n\nAVMs are increasingly used by mortgage lenders to determine what a property might be worth in order for them to lend against the valuation.\nThe advantages of using AVMs over traditional appraisals are that they save time, money and resources (e.g. there are no transport requirements), thus lowering the cost of valuing a property. Many AVMs can be made and used with little cost, so more choices in valuation methodology are also possible.\nIt is claimed that unlike traditional appraisals, AVM outputs do not suffer from the same fraud risk although certain providers can have their systems manipulated intentionally or otherwise if property features are incorrectly entered.\nAVMs remove the human element from the valuation process and rely on computer automation so as to remove human bias and subjectivity. \n\nAVMs are particularly useful in assessing the value of a property portfolio. Using an automated model can also be useful for valuing an individual property where the provider can deliver a suitable level of accuracy.\n\nThe disadvantages are that they do not take into account the property condition, as a physical inspection of the property does not occur and therefore the valuation produced assumes an average condition which may not reflect reality. Purchasers relying on an AVM-backed mortgage application will need to get separate advice to establish the true condition of the property.\nNew build property is particularly difficult to value due to the lack of comparable properties and historic data; however, an advantage of AVMs is that they pull on a larger pool of comparables and as such are not prone to incorporating the claimed 'new-build premium', although it would rely on comparables from physical inspections to achieve this. Other data sources used are sometimes misleading due to concealed incentives in recorded sales prices (e.g. Land Registry). AVMs also do not work particularly well on large blocks of flats where aspect can have a significant effect on value.\n\nInitial concern over the effectiveness of AVMs in falling markets have now been answered as the best performing models have remained highly effective throughout the latest downturns although their use for \"retrospective valuations\" has contributed to wasteful activity in some areas – this is not a fault of the tools but a lack of appreciation by some of those using them.\n\nMany AVMs are also using transactional data, which may lag anywhere from three to six months. This is a good starting point but still does not account for changes in current market conditions.\n\n"}
{"id": "14177002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14177002", "title": "Bersih", "text": "Bersih\n\nThe Coalition for Clean and Fair Elections () or Bersih (meaning \"clean\" in Malay) is a coalition of non-governmental organisations (NGOs) which seeks to reform the current electoral system in Malaysia to ensure free, clean and fair elections.\n\nThe idea of Bersih was initiated by five opposition parties in 2005 which later included other NGOs in this as well.\n\nIt was officially formed on 23 November 2006 as a joint communiqué that comprised leaders from political parties, civil society groups and NGOs. Bersih accused the Election Commission under Prime Minister's Department for manipulating the electoral process to give an unfair advantage to the ruling National Front coalition. Bersih claimed that the electoral roll was marred by irregularities such as gerrymandering, phantom voters, malapportionment and postal vote frauds. On 10 November 2007, Bersih organised the first rally with 10,000 to 40,000 turnout and held a public demonstration at Dataran Merdeka, Kuala Lumpur. Supporters of Bersih were urged to wear yellow T-shirts as a symbol of protest. The rally was often credited for the shift in political landscape in 2008 general election, when the incumbent National Front coalition failed to obtain a two-thirds supermajority for the first time since 1969.\n\nIn April 2010, the coalition was relaunched as an entirely civil society movement (\"Bersih 2.0\") unaffiliated to any political party. On 19 June 2011, former president of the Bar Council, Dato' Ambiga Sreenevasan became the chairperson of the coalition. In 2011 and 2012, two more rallies (Bersih 2.0 and Bersih 3.0) were organised seeing that the demands for the electoral reforms have not been met by the Electoral Commission.\n\nBersih started out as a Joint Action Committee for Electoral Reform which was formed in July 2005. In the following year September 2006, an Electoral Reform Workshop was held in Kuala Lumpur whereby the various leaders from political parties, civil society groups and NGOs, including Wan Azizah Wan Ismail, Lim Guan Eng, PAS, Nasharudin Mat Isa, Teresa Kok, Syed Shahir Syed Mohamud among others, came together to formulate a joint communiqué. The main objective of this meeting is to advocate for a clean and fair election in Malaysia.\n\nOn Saturday 10 November 2007, Bersih held the first mass rally to make four demands to ensure a clean and fair electoral process in Malaysia:\n\nThe rally took place in the area of Kuala Lumpur and Petaling Jaya around Dataran Merdeka (Independence Square) and Istana Negara (The National Palace). Bersih estimated the turnout to be at least 30,000, while the official claimed there were 10,000 protesters. Yellow shirts and ribbons were used as the symbol of protest as yellow is also the colour for citizen actions worldwide and for press freedom movement. A memorandum containing the four demands was submitted to the Yang di-Pertuan Agong, Malaysia's head of state, during the rally.\n\nMalaysian police refused to issue a permit for the rally, rendering the rally illegal. Tear gas and chemical-laced water cannon were used by the riot police to disperse the crowd. 245 people were detained following the protest.\n\nFollowing the initial rally, Bersih indicated it may hold another street demonstration if government extended the tenure of Election Commission (EC) chairperson Abdul Rashid Abdul Rahman. On 20 November 2007, Minister in the Prime Minister's Department Nazri Aziz tabled a first reading of the Constitution (Amendment) Bill 2007 that sought to extend the retirement age of members of Election Commission (EC) from 65 to 66. Parliament passed legislation on 11 December to increase EC members' retirement age from 65 to 66.\n\nThe 2007 rally had raised Malaysian citizens' awareness to the irregularities and controversies in the electoral system. Ahead of the anticipated 2012 13th general election, Bersih scheduled a second public demonstration at Kuala Lumpur on 9 July 2011. Bersih 2.0 rally, also called \"the Walk for Democracy\", called for eight points, including the four demands that remained not met in the 2008 general election:\n\nBersih 2.0 was endorsed by 62 NGOs and joined by rallies in more than 30 international cities by oversea Malaysians in solidarity. The rally was again denied a permit. Plans for the demonstration were extensively criticised by the government and pro-government media. Police set up multiple road blocks around Kuala Lumpur and arrested 225 Bersih supporters in the lead-up to the event.\n\nAfter being granted an audience with the Yang di-Pertuan Agong to discuss the issue, Bersih subsequently agreed on 5 July 2011 to move the rally from the streets to Stadium Merdeka. Estimates of the turnout on 9 July 2011 ranged from 10,000 to 50,000. The police deployed tear gas and water cannons to break up the protest and arrested more than 1600 protesters, including Ambiga and several event organisers and opposition figures.\n\nFollowing the Bersih 2.0 demonstration, the Malaysian government set up Parliamentary Select Committee (PSC) on 2 October 2011 to respond to the electoral issues. In early April 2012, PSC released a report with 22 recommendations to improve the electoral system. The report was received and passed by the Dewan Rakyat (House of Representatives) on 3 April 2012 according to the voice of the majority without debate. An opposition minority report was proposed to be included but was rejected by the Speaker of the Dewan Rakyat.\n\nBersih was unsatisfied with the PSC reports as (i) the existing Election Commission was tasked to carry out the recommendations; (ii) many of the recommendations asked for a lengthy implementation period; (iii) many allegations of electoral frauds were not acknowledged in the report. In light of the issues, the third public demonstration, namely the Bersih 3.0 rally, was announced and took place on 28 April 2012 at Dataran Merdeka. The Bersih 3.0 rally was a sit-down protest (\"Duduk Bantah\" in Malay). In addition to the eight previous demands, it called for:\n\nBersih 3.0 was endorsed by 84 NGOs. In particular, it was joined by Himpunan Hijau (Green Assembly), a civil movement protesting the Lynas rare earth project in Malaysia. In addition to the main rally at Kuala Lumpur, smaller rallies were held in 10 other cities in Malaysia, as well as in 34 other countries.\n\nPolice again deployed tear gas and water cannon against the protestors, despite it being a peaceful demonstration. The chaos started when police began to scatter the crowd. Tear gas and water cannon targeted the exit points and the middle of the crowd.\n\nA tribunal was organised by Bersih on 18–21 September 2013 in regards to the general elections that was held on 5 May 2013, whereby invited witnesses gave testimonies on the irregularities and incidents of fraud.\n\nThere were also calls for Election Commission to resign due to the way electoral demarcations were formed in past redelineation exercises.\n\nBersih 4 rallies are scheduled to be held on the streets of Kuala Lumpur, Kuching, and Kota Kinabalu from 29–30 August, 2pm until midnight.\n\nThe gathering places for the rally should be located at Brickfields, Pasar Seni, Dataran Maybank, National Mosque, and Sogo shopping mall, according to the Bersih 2.0 chairperson. This is the first Bersih rally that are racially imbalance, with Chinese predominantly at the rally.\n\nGlobal Bersih is a movement by Malaysian diaspora communities to lend support to Bersih and its cause. In conjunction with the Bersih 2.0 rally, Global Bersih organised rallies in 38 international locations with 4003 overseas Malaysians in solidarity:\n\n\nAs of 28 October 2014, the 62 non-governmental organisations that endorse Bersih include:\n\nOn 23 November 2006, Bersih issued its first joint communiqué with the endorsement from 25 non-governmental organisations and 5 political parties:\n\nNon-government organisations:\n\nPolitical parties:\n\n"}
{"id": "3799795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3799795", "title": "Clarke–McNary Act", "text": "Clarke–McNary Act\n\nThe Clarke–McNary Act of 1924 (ch. 348, , enacted June 7, 1924) was one of several pieces of United States federal legislation and was named for Representative John D. Clarke and Senator Charles McNary. \n\nThe 1911 Weeks Act had allowed the purchase of land to enlarge the National Forest System. Two years after the Weeks Act was passed, over 700,000 acres (2,800 km²) had been purchased for the National Forest system in the Eastern United States. More than 2 million acres (8,000 km²) of land had been purchased by 1920.\n\nThe Clarke–McNary Act made it much easier for the Forest Service to buy land from willing sellers within predetermined national forest boundaries. It enabled the Secretary of Agriculture to work cooperatively with State officials for better forest protection, chiefly in fire control and water resources. It also provided for continuous production of timber. Additionally, the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) began working with private forestland owners in reforestation. That was done by broadening the cooperative efforts to include producing and distributing tree seedlings and providing forestry assistance to farmers.\n\nThe laws also gave a strong impetus to states to establish and to support state forestry agencies. All 50 states now have a state forestry agency or forestry extension agency.\n\n"}
{"id": "2424630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2424630", "title": "Clayton Waagner", "text": "Clayton Waagner\n\nClayton Lee Waagner (born August 25, 1956) is a convicted bank robber and anti-abortion terrorist. He was born Roger Waagner in North Dakota. He was an escaped fugitive during the spring, summer and fall of 2001 and was the FBI's 467th fugitive to be placed on the Ten Most Wanted list for carjackings, firearms violations, and bank robbery on September 21, 2001. He was placed on the United States Marshals Service Top 15 Fugitives list for sending more than 280 letters that claimed to contain anthrax, which he mailed to Planned Parenthood with return addresses of the Marshals Service and the Secret Service beginning in October 2001. He is currently in prison.\n\nWaagner had previously been sentenced to 4–10 years for attempted robbery in 1992. Years later as a convicted felon released from prison, early in September 1999, he was pulled over by the Pennsylvania State Police, but fled into the woods and evaded capture, leaving behind a stolen car that contained firearms, explosives, false identity papers, and a list of abortion clinics.\n\nLater in September 1999, while on a self-described \"Mission from God\", he took his wife and their nine children on a cross-country road trip headed west in a stolen Winnebago, planning to murder various abortion doctors, beginning with one in Seattle, Washington. However, after crossing into Illinois his vehicle broke down, and Waagner was arrested when Illinois State Police stopped to investigate. Waagner was convicted on charges of interstate transportation of a stolen motor vehicle and for being a convicted felon in possession of firearms.\n\nWhile he was awaiting sentencing and facing a term of 15 years to life, Waagner escaped from DeWitt County Jail in Clinton, Illinois, on February 22, 2001.\n\nAs an escaped fugitive felon from Clinton Illinois, Waagner made his way back east to Pennsylvania, where three months later he became wanted for the bank robbery of a First Union in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania in May 2001.\n\nHis fugitive trail then led southwest, where he was next identified as having abandoned a vehicle in Memphis, Tennessee, following a hit and run accident. Authorities recovered law enforcement-type equipment, anti-abortion literature, and weapons from the car. He next became wanted for carjackings across the state line in Tunica, and Robinsonville, Mississippi, and firearms violations in Memphis, Tennessee, on September 7, 2001. Later that month, the FBI placed him on the list of Ten Most Wanted Fugitives, in the wake of the September 11 attacks.\n\nWaagner then became most infamous for a hoax in November 2001, in which he sent envelopes containing a white powder to more than 500 abortion providers. The envelopes also contained a note, which said, \"You have been exposed to anthrax. We are going to kill all of you. From the Army of God, Virginia Dare Chapter.\" The threat was considered serious, as it arrived shortly after the September 11 terrorist attacks on America, as well as the then-recent delivery of genuine anthrax letters to various governmental officials.\nA United States Marshals Service Top 15 Fugitive since March 6, 2001, Waagner also became a FBI Ten Most Wanted fugitive because of the more than 280 letters that threatened to contain anthrax, which he mailed to Planned Parenthood, with return addresses of the U.S. Marshals Service and the U.S. Secret Service beginning in October 2001. In the wave of mailed letters, Waagner was accused of stalkings and threats to kill 42 low-level abortion clinic employees up through November 23, 2001.\n\nOn November 29, 2001, the FBI took the unusual step of releasing a press release of new information about Waagner seeking the public's assistance, while also pointing out that Waagner's letters were not associated with the recent letters that had been sent to the offices of Senators Tom Daschle and Patrick Leahy which actually did contain anthrax. The white powder in Waagner's letters initially tested positive for anthrax, due to the addition of a powdered insecticide known to trigger false positive results.\n\nHe was captured on December 5, 2001, after a clerk at a Kinko's copy shop in Springdale, Ohio, identified him from a photograph on a wanted poster circulated by members of the United States Marshals Service. Waagner had been known to patronize Kinko's stores in the past, and for this reason the Marshals sent a copy to every store in the chain. When arrested, he was preparing to fax a bomb threat to a mass list of clinics. In addition to his earlier 15 years to life sentence in Illinois, he was convicted April 18, 2002, in Cincinnati, Ohio's U.S District Court on separate firearms and car theft charges. For the anthrax letter spree, he received a 53-count indictment, and on December 3, 2003, he was convicted on 51 of the 53 counts, including charges of violating the Freedom of Access to Clinic Entrances Act, threatening the use of weapons of mass destruction, and mailing threatening communications. He was sentenced to 19 years in a federal prison.\n\nWaagner has distributed a manifesto while in prison, and continues to correspond with outside individuals, including other members of the Army of God. He is currently serving in United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania, with a projected release date of January 27, 2046.\nDonald Spitz was suspected of harboring Clayton Waagner and receiving phone calls from him while Waagner was on the lam.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16366664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16366664", "title": "Controller and Auditor-General of New Zealand", "text": "Controller and Auditor-General of New Zealand\n\nThe Controller and Auditor-General (the Auditor-General) is an Officer of the New Zealand Parliament responsible for auditing public bodies. John Ryan began his seven-year term as Controller and Auditor-General on 2 July 2018. The Deputy Controller and Auditor-General is Greg Schollum. Their mandate and responsibilities are set out in the Public Audit Act 2001. They are appointed by the Governor-General on the recommendation of the House of Representatives.\n\nPublic entities are accountable to Parliament and the public for their use of public resources and powers conferred by Parliament. The Auditor-General provides independent assurance that public entities are operating, and accounting for their performance, in keeping with Parliament's intentions. The Auditor-General is independent of executive government and Parliament in discharging the functions of the statutory office, but is answerable to Parliament for stewardship of the public resources entrusted to her.\n\nUnder the Public Audit Act 2001, the Auditor-General is the auditor of all public entities, including:\n\nThe Auditor-General employs the public sector organisation Audit New Zealand and contracts with private sector accounting firms to carry out these annual audits.\n\nAs well as annual audits, the Auditor-General carries out performance audits and inquiries. Other work of the Auditor-General includes: \n\nThe Auditor-General employs staff in two business units – the Office of the Auditor-General and Audit New Zealand – and contracts with private sector accounting firms. The two business units share a Corporate Services Team.\n\nThe Office of the Auditor-General carries out strategic audit planning, sets policy and standards, appoints auditors and oversees their performance, carries out performance audits, provides reporting and advice to Parliament, and carries out inquiries and other special studies.\n\nAudit New Zealand carries out annual audits allocated by the Auditor-General. It also provides other assurance services to public entities, within the Auditor-General’s mandate and in keeping with the Auditor-General’s Auditing Standard on the independence of auditors.\n\nAudit New Zealand's auditors examine the financial statements of public entities and handle special governance, risk, and contract and project management assignments. Audit New Zealand has specialist Tax Audit and Information Systems Assurance Audit teams.\n\nThe Auditor-General is currently the Secretary General of the Pacific Association of Supreme Audit Institutions (PASAI). PASAI is the official association of Supreme Audit Institutions (government Audit Offices and similar organisations, known as SAIs) in the Pacific. PASAI is one of the regional working groups belonging to the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI).\n\nThe Auditor-General is a member of INTOSAI, and also contributes to the international auditing community by accepting requests to host delegations from overseas audit offices and other government bodies.\n\nThe first Auditor-General took office in 1846, and before that audit functions were carried out in the Colonial Secretary’s Office. From 1 January 1842 until the appointment of Dr Knight in 1846, accounts were certified by a board consisting of three Commissioners of Audit. The 20th (and current) Auditor-General John Ryan took office on 2 July 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "33418994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33418994", "title": "Department of Community, Culture and Leisure (Isle of Man)", "text": "Department of Community, Culture and Leisure (Isle of Man)\n\nThe Department of Community, Culture and Leisure (often abbreviated to DCCL) was one of nine departments of the Isle of Man Government. It was created on 1 April 2010 taking over the leisure functions from the former Department of Tourism and Leisure along with the community and culture functions from various other departments. It was dissolved on 1 April 2014. \n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "404143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=404143", "title": "Dutch Language Union", "text": "Dutch Language Union\n\nThe Dutch Language Union (Dutch: , NTU) is an international regulatory institution that governs issues regarding the Dutch language. It is best known for its spelling reforms which are promulgated by member states, grammar books, the Green Booklet and its support of Dutch language courses and studies worldwide. It was founded on 9 September 1980 by the Netherlands and Belgium (in respect of the Flemish Community). Suriname has been an associate member of the \"Taalunie\" since 2004.\n\nThe Dutch Language Union was established by a treaty between Belgium and the Netherlands, signed on 9 September 1980 in Brussels. It succeeded the \"Cultural Agreement\" (governing more than just language) between the two countries signed just after the Second World War. This agreement was redone in 1995, after the federalization of Belgium, and a new treaty was signed between the Netherlands and Flanders. On 12 December 2003, president of the Committee of Ministers of the Dutch Language Union Medy van der Laan and Minister of Education of Suriname Walter Sandriman signed the agreement to the accession of Suriname to the union. The accession was ratified by the National Assembly of Suriname in 2004 and came into force in 2005.\n\nStandard Dutch (\"Algemeen Nederlands\", often abbreviated to \"AN\") is the standard language as it is taught in schools and used by authorities in the Netherlands, Flanders, Suriname, and the Dutch Caribbean. The Dutch Language Union defines what is \"AN\" and what is not. Since efforts to \"uplift\" people came to be considered rather presumptuous, the earlier name \"Algemeen Beschaafd Nederlands\" (\"Common Civilised Dutch\") and its abbreviation, \"ABN\", have been replaced with \"Algemeen Nederlands\" and thus \"AN\". The implicit insinuation that people speaking dialects or with an accent were not civilised was thus removed.\n\nAn important change that was carried out by the Dutch Language Union was the modification of Dutch orthography in 1995, regarding in particular the writing of the interfix \"-n\" in many compounds. Among the Union’s publications is the well-known Word list of the Dutch language (\"Woordenlijst Nederlandse taal\"), commonly known as the “\"Groene boekje\"” (\"Green booklet\", because of its distinctive green colour). The green booklet is the official orthographic and grammatical reference of the Dutch language. It is laid out like a vocabulary, including plural forms and spelling but without actual word definitions.\n\nThe most recent version of the Green Booklet appeared on 13 October 2015. Its content does not differ from the previous version of 2005, which included a somewhat controversial spelling reform which was not received well in general because a part of the spelling reforms of 1996 was changed again. In December 2005, most of the Dutch mainstream media announced a boycott. In August 2006, they released a 'White book' as their own, subtly different guideline. Currently these two spellings are both in use, sometimes confusing people; the 'green' one is used by schools and officials, the 'white' one by papers, magazines and television stations. \n\nIn Belgium, on the other hand, the spelling reform was generally accepted without protest.\n\nThe Van Dale dictionary is commonly accepted as the most authoritative Dutch dictionary. Commonly named the Dikke Van Dale (\"fat Van Dale\" due to its size) the dictionary is split into three tomes (A–I, J–R, S–Z) and is usually updated every 7–8 years. The 15th edition was published on 23 September 2015.\n\nThe \"Woordenboek der Nederlandsche Taal\" (WNT) is a historic dictionary that includes all words used from 1500 to the present day.\nWork began in 1864 and was finished in 1998 when the last volume was published. It has 43 volumes, needing about 3m if placed on a shelf, with about 400,000 words on 49,255 pages. In 2001, three additional volumes were published containing mostly words from the 20th century that were not included in the previous 43 volumes. This dictionary is published by Instituut voor Nederlandse Lexicologie and can be found online.\n\nThe Dutch Language Union supports the teaching of Dutch in primary and secondary schools in the neighbouring regions and countries. It concerns Belgium (Brussels and Wallonia; 350,000 learners), Germany (Lower Saxony and North Rhine-Westphalia, 40,000 learners) and France (Nord-Pas-de-Calais, 8,000 learners). \n\nThe Union also supports the study of Dutch language and culture at universities and schools worldwide. Approximately 14,000 people study Dutch language and literature at 140 institutions.\n\nThe NTU has offices in The Hague and Brussels, and it comprises four institutions:\n\nThe binational (Belgium and the Netherlands) \"Instituut voor de Nederlandse Taal\" (\"Institute for the Dutch Language\") in Leiden, formerly \"Instituut voor Nederlandse Lexicologie\", works under the auspices of the Dutch Language Union, and is responsible for the \"Woordenboek der Nederlandsche Taal\" (Dictionary of the Dutch language). In addition, the institute publishes a number of dictionaries, including the \"Old Dutch Dictionary\", the \"Early Middle Dutch Dictionary\", and an etymological dictionary; and databases, including databases indexing various newspapers and magazines, and legal documents. The \"Spoken Dutch Corpus\" has contemporary Dutch as spoken in the Netherlands and Flanders, including audio recordings of Standard Dutch.\n\nThe Royal Academy of Dutch language and literature was founded in Belgium in 1886 to stimulate the culture and literature of Flanders. It is the official advisory board to the Flanders government, and publishes the \"Materiaal Willems\" database, based on the dialect surveys done by Pieter Willems, containing material from dialects in Flanders, the Netherlands, and French Flanders.\n\nThe organisation is also responsible for the external linguistic policy of the Netherlands and Flanders and is active in Indonesia and South Africa, two countries with historic links with the Dutch language. Nevertheless, cooperation with South Africa is not limited to the Afrikaans language but aimed also at fostering multilingualism.\n\nThe purposes of the organisation are limited to Dutch language and Dutch-language literature, and are hence not as wide as those of the Community of Portuguese Language Countries, La Francophonie or the Commonwealth of Nations.\n\nThe Treaty on the Dutch Language Union foresees the possibility that the Kingdom of the Netherlands extends application to NTU member's parts outside Europe. The organs of the NTU are its Committee of Ministers (composed of the ministers of education and culture of the Dutch and Flemish Governments), its Secretariat-General, an Interparliamentary Committee (composed of members of the States General of the Netherlands and the Flemish Parliament) and a Dutch Language and Literature Council (composed of twelve independent experts). There are specific arrangements for the participation of Suriname in the organisation's inner workings.\n\nAs the basis of the Taalunie is a treaty between the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Kingdom of Belgium, the two sovereign states that constitute the Union. For the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the treaty is only applicable to its European territory.\nThe treaty allows for two types of extensions:\n\nIn 2004, Suriname signed an \"associative treaty\" with the Taalunie. From 27 November 2013 the treaty also applies to the Caribbean Netherlands.\nThe three autonomous Caribbean countries of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, Aruba, Curaçao and Sint Maarten, are designated as candidate member states. Additionally, Indonesia and South Africa are considered \"special partners\" of the Dutch Language Union.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46699", "title": "Electoral fusion", "text": "Electoral fusion\n\nElectoral fusion is an arrangement where two or more political parties on a ballot list the same candidate, pooling the votes for that candidate. Distinct from the process of electoral alliances in that the political parties remain separately listed on the ballot, the practice of electoral fusion in jurisdictions where it exists allows minor parties to influence election results and policy by offering to endorse or nominate a major party's candidate.\n\nElectoral fusion is also known as fusion voting, cross endorsement, multiple party nomination, multi-party nomination, plural nomination, and ballot freedom.\n\nElectoral fusion is very common in Brazil.\n\nWhile no party law exists in Hong Kong, candidates in election may list their \"political affiliation\" on ballots, and there is no restriction regarding the number of political parties or organisations a candidate report to be affiliated with. For example, in the 2004 Legislative Council election Chan Kam Lam, of the Democratic Alliance for the Betterment of Hong Kong, and Chan Yuen Han (unrelated), of the Hong Kong Federation of Trade Unions, running on different pro-Beijing tickets in the same multi-member constituency, were endorsed by both parties.\n\nElectoral fusion is provided for and regulated by the Italian electoral system for general elections, in order to get a majority bonus. However the parties can run as stand-alones.\n\nThat is also provided for administrative divisions, to get the majority bonus in support of the candidate who gets the relative chief office.\n\nThe Dutch electoral law accepts common lists. In a common list two or more political parties share a list and often have a common political programme for the election. The participating political parties are identifiable for the voters because the names of these parties are mentioned on the voting paper.\n\nIn the 2010 presidential elections, Senator Loren Legarda announced her bid for vice president and was announced as running mate of Nacionalista Party presidentiable Senator Manny Villar.\n\nElectoral fusion was once widespread in the United States. In the late nineteenth century, however, as minor political parties such as the Populist Party became increasingly successful in using fusion, state legislatures enacted bans against it. One Republican Minnesota state legislator was clear about what his party was trying to do: \"We don't propose to allow the Democrats to make allies of the Populists, Prohibitionists, or any other party, and get up combination tickets against us. We can whip them single-handed, but don't intend to fight all creation.\" The creation of the Minnesota Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party made this particular tactical position obsolete. By 1907 the practice had been banned in 18 states; today, fusion as conventionally practiced remains legal in only eight states, namely:\n\nIn several other states, notably New Hampshire, fusion is legal when primary elections are won by write-in candidates.\n\nFusion has sometimes been used by other third parties. For example, the Independent Party of Oregon cross-nominated five major party candidates, winning races for the U.S. Senate, Oregon State Treasurer, and the Oregon House of Representatives in 2008. The Libertarian Party of New Hampshire used fusion to elect four members, Calvin Warburton, Finlay Rothhaus, Andy Borsa and Don Gorman, to the New Hampshire state legislature during the early 1990s.\n\nIn 1864 the Democratic Party split into two wings over the question of whether to continue the American Civil War or back down and negotiate peace with the Confederacy. The War Democrats fused with the Republicans to elect a Democratic Vice President, Andrew Johnson, and re-elect a Republican President, Abraham Lincoln.\n\nIn 1872, both the newly formed Liberal Republican Party and the Democratic party nominated the Liberal Republican Horace Greeley as their candidate for President of the United States: \"If [The Democratic party] was to stand any chance at all against Grant, it must avoid putting up a candidate of its own who would merely split the opposition vote. It must take Greeley.\"\n\nIn the Presidential election of 1896, William Jennings Bryan was nominated by both the Democratic Party and the Populist Party, albeit with different Vice Presidential candidates, Arthur Sewall for the Democrats and Thomas E. Watson for the Populists. This election led to the downfall of the Populist Party, especially in Southern states (such as Watson's Georgia, as well as North Carolina and Tennessee) where the Populist party had engaged in electoral fusion or other alliances with Republicans against the dominant Bourbon Democrats.\n\nOccasionally, popular candidates for local office have succeeded in being nominated by both Republican and Democratic Parties. In 1946, prior to the current ban on fusion being enacted in that state, Republican Governor of California Earl Warren (a future Chief Justice of the United States) managed to win the nominations of the Republican, Democratic, and Progressive Parties. Similarly, Allan Shivers won the 1952 nominations of both the Democratic and Republican parties in Texas (and had his name appear on the ballot twice, once for each party; Democrat Shivers handily defeated Republican Shivers in the general election).\n\nIn 1996 the United States Supreme Court ruled that prohibiting Electoral Fusion does not violate the First Amendment of the United States Constitution (\"Twin Cities Area New Party v. McKenna\", 73 F. 3d 196, 1996).\n\nDonald Trump appeared on the 2016 presidential ballot in California with two ballot labels by his name, as the nominee of both the Republican Party and the American Independent Party, a small far-right party. Trump was the first fusion presidential candidate on the California ballot in at least eighty years.\n\nIn Milwaukee, Wisconsin, during the heyday of the Sewer Socialists, the Republican and Democratic parties would agree not to run candidates against each other in some districts, concentrating instead on defeating the Socialists. These candidates were usually called \"non-partisan\", but sometimes were termed \"fusion\" candidates instead.\n\nFusion has the highest profile in New York City, where it was used as a major weapon against Tammany Hall. Most legislative and judicial elections are won by candidates endorsed by more than two parties.\n\nThe first fusion gubernatorial election was held in New York in 1854, in which the major party Whig candidate was supported in a fusion candidacy by eleven other political parties, among them the \"Strong-Minded Women\" Party, the \"Anti-Rent\" Party and the \"Negro\" Party.\n\nIn order to obtain or maintain automatic ballot access, a party's candidate for governor of New York must receive 50,000 votes on that party's line. The party need not run its own candidate and may cross-nominate another party's candidate, but in order to qualify for automatic ballot access it must receive 50,000 votes on its own line. Gubernatorial vote also determines ballot order, with Row \"A\" going to the party whose line gains the most votes (regardless of whether or not their candidate actually wins – see the 1994 election for an example).\n\nAutomatic ballot access means that no petitions need be filed to gain access to a ballot line for statewide and special elections, and parties may designate candidates through their own conventions. (Legislative candidates must petition onto the ballot regardless of party designation.) For local (non-statewide) office, the number of signatures required to place a candidate on the ballot is much lower for qualified parties, and they are the only parties eligible to hold primary elections. Automatic ballot access is valid for four years, and parties must gain 50,000 votes in the next gubernatorial election to again qualify for automatic ballot access.\n\nSmall parties significant in large part for their fused ballot lines, include the Independence Party of New York, the Working Families Party, and the Conservative Party of New York State. The Independence Party originally ran its own candidate for governor until 2002, but since then has instead retained its automatic ballot status by running a gubernatorial candidate who was designated by one of the major parties (to date, the party has always cross-endorsed the Democrat in gubernatorial races; it cross-endorses Republicans in lower races, particularly in the New York State Senate, whose Republican conference has strong ties to the party). Previously influential were the Liberal Party of New York and New York State Right to Life Party, which lost automatic ballot access in 2002.\n\nOther parties, such as the Libertarian Party of New York, the Green Party of New York, and others, now seek ballot access by, first, getting a gubernatorial candidate on the ballot via petition (by collecting 15,000 valid signatures of registered voters), and then by getting 50,000 votes for that candidate on their line. As a general rule, neither party uses electoral fusion, and both rely on their own candidates. The Green Party, which had first achieved ballot status in 1998, failed to gain 50,000 votes and also lost its ballot status in 2002, but regained its line when the 2010 election results were certified. To date, the Libertarian Party has never gained the 50,000 votes needed (it only came close once, with Warren Redlich's 48,000-vote performance in 2010; no other Libertarian ballot has earned half of that).\n\nThe Liberal Party, which had been active since 1944, became defunct as a result of the 2002 gubernatorial election. Andrew Cuomo got the Liberal Party nomination and ran in the Democratic primary against Carl McCall, who had secured the Working Families nomination. Cuomo subsequently dropped out and endorsed McCall, but his name remained on the Liberal party line and failed to gain 50,000 votes, leading to the Liberal Party's failure to retain status and losing its automatic ballot line. A Federal lawsuit (joined by Green, Libertarian, and other parties) enjoined the Board of Elections from discarding enrollment records of these disqualified parties, and also required modifications to allow voters to register themselves in non-ballot parties.\n\nPrior to 1958, Oregon practiced a form of fusion that required the state to list multiple nominating parties on the candidate's ballot line. Sylvester Pennoyer was elected Governor in 1886 and 1890 as a candidate of the Democratic and People's Parties. In 1906, seven members of the Oregon House were also elected as candidates of the People's Party and either the Democratic or Republican parties. In 2008, a lawsuit was brought by the Independent Party of Oregon against the Oregon Secretary of State claiming that modifications to the ballot design statute in 1995 once again required the state to list multiple nominating parties on the candidate's ballot line. The lawsuit gave rise to legislation to allow candidates to list up to three party labels after their name. This bill passed both houses of the Oregon legislature during the 2009 legislative session. Governor Ted Kulongoski signed the bill into law on July 23, 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2723618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2723618", "title": "English votes for English laws", "text": "English votes for English laws\n\nEnglish votes for English laws (EVEL) is a set of procedures of the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom whereby legislation which affects only England requires the support of a majority of MPs representing English constituencies. The procedures were developed following devolution in the United Kingdom as a result of the West Lothian question, a concern about the perceived inequity of MPs from Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales, sitting in the House of Commons being able to vote on matters that affected only England, while MPs from England were unable to vote on matters that had been devolved to the Northern Ireland Assembly, the Scottish Parliament and the Welsh Assembly.\n\nDuring the 2000s a number of pieces of legislation which affected only or mainly England were passed by the UK Parliament, although the votes cast by MPs were such that the legislation would not have been passed if only the votes cast by MPs representing English constituencies had been counted. The opposition Conservative Party commissioned a report, \"Devolution, The West Lothian Question and the Future of the Union\", which proposed some procedural changes restricting the participation of MPs representing non-English constituencies during the passage of bills relating only to England.\n\nWhile the Conservatives were in government from 2010–15 in coalition with the Liberal Democrats, they set up the McKay Commission to look into the question. The Commission proposed that bills in the House of Commons which affected England solely or differently should require a majority vote of MPs representing English constituencies. The Conservative manifesto for the 2015 general election included a proposal that England-only legislation should require approval from a Legislative Grand Committee prior to its Third Reading in the House of Commons. Having won a majority in that election, the Conservative government used a change in standing orders in October 2015 to give MPs representing English constituencies a \"veto\" over laws only affecting England.\n\nFollowing the establishment of the Scottish Parliament in 1999, it was suggested by Conservative MPs that Scottish MPs should be barred from voting on matters that do not affect Scotland. In July 1999, Conservative Party leader William Hague said that \"English MPs should have exclusive say over English laws ... People will become increasingly resentful that decisions are being made in England by people from other parts of the UK on matters that English people did not have a say on elsewhere ... I think it is a dangerous thing to allow resentment to build up in a country. We have got to make the rules fair now.\"\n\nIn establishing foundation hospitals and increasing student tuition fees in England, Scottish votes were decisive in getting the measures through. The vote on foundation hospitals in November 2003 only applied to England – had the vote been restricted to English MPs then the government would have been defeated. Had there been a vote by English MPs only on tuition fees in January 2004, the government would have lost because of a rebellion on their own benches. Students at English universities are required to pay top-up fees, but students from Scotland attending Scottish universities are not. The legislation imposing top-up fees on students in England passed by a small majority of 316 to 311. At the time, the shadow education secretary Tim Yeo argued that this low majority made the passing of the law \"completely wrong\" due to Scottish MPs voting to introduce tuition fees that Scottish students attending university in Scotland would not have to pay. A small part of the bill did relate directly to Scotland.\n\nFollowing his election as Leader of the Conservative Party in 2005, David Cameron established a \"Democracy Taskforce\" chaired by Kenneth Clarke. The taskforce's final report \"Devolution, The West Lothian question and the Future of the Union\" proposed a possible solution to the West Lothian question. The proposals called for changes in procedures in the House of Commons for the passage of bills relating only to England. Under the new procedures, all MPs would participate in the first and second readings of these bills, but only English MPs would participate in the committee stage consideration of the bill. All MPs would vote on the final bill at report stage. An amendment proposed by Malcolm Rifkind suggested that the second reading and report stages of bills would require a \"double majority\" of both the House as a whole and of English MPs.\n\nLabour politician Jack Straw has speculated: \"I say to the Conservatives that if they start to take a mechanical approach, this so-called 'English votes for English laws' approach, then they will break the Union.\"\n\nThe May 2010 coalition agreement between the Conservative Party and the Liberal Democrats provided for a commission to be established to consider the West Lothian question. In September 2011, the Government announced that the commission would be established in the near future and that it would consist of \"independent, non-partisan experts\". The new commission would examine how the House of Commons and Parliament as a whole could deal with business that affects only England and is devolved in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. The commission would not look at reducing the number of MPs from the other three constituent countries or financing of the devolved institutions.\n\nThe McKay Commission reported on 25 March 2013. It concluded that changes were needed because of the perception that England was disadvantaged under the current devolution arrangements, and proposed that Commons decisions with a \"separate and distinct effect\" for England should \"normally be taken only with the consent of a majority of MPs sitting for constituencies in England\". This principle should be enshrined by a resolution of the House of Commons. The Commission also proposed a number of changes to procedure, including allocating specific parliamentary time to proposals for England. The government said it would give the report \"serious consideration\".\n\nOn 18 September 2014, the people of Scotland voted against independence in a referendum by 55.3% to 44.7%. Shortly after the outcome of the vote was announced, the Prime Minister, David Cameron, stated that the \"question of English votes for English laws – the so-called West Lothian question – requires a decisive answer.\" He announced the appointment of Lord Smith to lead a commission to develop proposals for constitutional reform to be included in a Bill to be published in January 2015. Labour refused to engage in cross party discussions about the issue.\n\nThe governance of England featured in the 2015 general election manifestos of the three main political parties in England. The Conservative manifesto supported the idea of \"English Votes for English Laws\", with England-only legislation requiring approval from a Legislative Grand Committee prior to its Third Reading. In the case of legislation applying to both England and Wales, or to England, Wales and Northern Ireland, the Legislative Grand Committee would consist of MPs from both England and Wales or England, Wales and Northern Ireland. It proposed a separate English rate of Income Tax and rejected regional governance in England.\n\nThe Labour Party manifesto stated that it was time to \"consider how English MPs can have a greater role in scrutiny of legislation that only affects England\" and suggested that an English Grand Committee stage for legislation could be considered. The Liberal Democrat manifesto proposed that England-only legislation be considered by a committee of MPs with membership based on share of the vote in England. It proposed a system of \"Devolution on Demand\" where councils or groups of councils could request further powers from Central Government. It supported the principle of an assembly for Cornwall.\n\nThe Conservatives won an overall majority in the election and formed the government of the United Kingdom. On 2 July 2015, Chris Grayling, Leader of the House of Commons, announced proposals to change standing orders to give MPs representing English constituencies a new \"veto\" over laws only affecting England. On 9 July 2015, Grayling said that, following two days of debate in July, a final set of standing orders would be tabled and voted on after the summer recess. Labour said the \"reckless and shoddy\" plans had descended into \"chaos\" while the SNP said it was a \"shambles\". The new procedures were approved by a Commons vote in October 2015 and used for the first time in the House of Commons in January 2016.\n\nThe revised process is:\n\n\nIn November 2016 the Centre on Constitutional Change published a report on the operation of the procedures during their first year, arguing that EVEL has avoided many of the problems predicted by its critics and recommending some improvements. As a result of the 2017 general election, the Conservative Party lost its House of Commons majority, but had a majority of 60 on English issues.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "741136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=741136", "title": "French Community Commission", "text": "French Community Commission\n\nThe Commission communautaire française (COCOF) or the French Community Commission is the local representative of the French-speaking authorities in the Brussels-Capital Region, one of the three regions of Belgium.\n\nOn 3 December 2001, the \"Assemblée de la Commission communautaire française\" or \"ACCF\" (Assembly of the French Community Commission) informally changed its name to \"Parlement francophone bruxellois\" (French-speaking Brussels Parliament). The Parliament is currently presided by Christos Doulkeridis.\n\nUnlike the Flemish Community Commission, the French Community Commission has been granted legislative power in some areas (such as tourism and healthcare) by the French Community.\n\nBlazon: \"Quartered, the I and IV Wallonia, the II and III Brussels-Capital Region.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "28248963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28248963", "title": "Frits Hansen", "text": "Frits Hansen\n\nFrits Hansen (31 January 1841 – 8 June 1911) was a Norwegian educator, newspaper editor, biographer and politician.\n\nHansen was born at Larvik, in Vestfold, Norway. He was the son of Magistrate Frederik Christian Hansen (1799-1860) and Albine Elise Fougnerbakken (1801-1846). He earned his Cand.theol. degree in 1865. Subsequently, he became a teacher at the Norwegian Military Academy. From 1872, Hansen taught at Sagatun Folk High School in Hamar. In 1881 Hansen was a teacher at a private middle school in Stavanger. He was also editor of the Lillehammer newspaper \"Framgang\". In 1890, he wrote \"Edvard Storm, digteren fra Vaage\", a biography of the poet Edvard Storm. In 1896 he moved to Christiania (now Oslo) and was editor of \"Eidsvold\". He was the chairman and founder of the regional centrist-conservative political party Centre in the 1890s.\n\nIn 1872, he married Ingeborg Marie Heftye (1852-1894). Her father Thomas Johannessen Heftye was deputy representative to the Norwegian Parliament and her brother was Norwegian Defense Minister Thomas Heftye. Her grandfather Johannes Thomassen Heftye had founded the Norwegian bank company, Thos. Joh. Heftye & Søn . \n"}
{"id": "35109022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35109022", "title": "Gentoo (term)", "text": "Gentoo (term)\n\nGentoo, also spelled Gentue or Jentue, was a term used by Europeans for the native inhabitants of India before the word Hindu, with its religious connotation, was used to distinguish a group from Muslims and members of other religious groups in India.\n\n\"Gentio\" and \"Gentoo\" terms were applied historically to indigenous peoples of India; later, to Telugu-speaking persons and their language in then Madras Province (now the Andhra region), as opposed to the Malbars, or Tamil speakers and their language (in what is now Tamil Nadu). An example from the Monsignor Sebastiao Rodolfo Dalgado is \"moros, gentivos e maos christãos\".\nIt was also an Anglo-Indian slang term used in the 17th and 18th centuries; however, in the 20th century, the word became derogatory.\n\nIt is unclear why Indians were called \"Gentoo\". As Portuguese people arrived in India for trade, religious conversions, and colonisation before other Europeans, it is possible that the word was derived from the Portuguese word \"Gentio\": a gentile, a heathen, or native. The Portuguese also appear to have used it to distinguish the aborigines of India from Muslims, the Moros or Moors.\nAccording to 19th century philologist and Orientalist N.B. Halhed, there was a fanciful derivation of \"Gentoo\" from the Sanskrit word \"jantu\", meaning \"mankind\" or \"animal\".\n\nThe word Hindu is not originally Indian. Instead, the word \"Hindu\" started to acquire religious connotations only after the arrival of Muslims. The very first attempt by the British to establish social laws over aboriginal people for administrative purposes (in order to assert the distinctiveness of Indian jurisprudence) was named \"A Code of Gentoo Law\". The first digest of Indian legislation was published in 1776, was funded by the East India Company, supported by Warren Hastings, and was translated from Persian into English by Halhed.\nAfter the term \"Hindu\" as a religion was established to represent non-Muslims and non-Christians, the word \"Gentoo\" became archaic and then obsolete, while its application on Telugu people and Telugu language (present Andhra region, part of Andhra Pradesh) in then Madras Province continued to distinguish them from Tamil people and Tamil language or Malbars (\"present\": Tamil Nadu) in then Madras Province.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15568065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15568065", "title": "Hemicycle", "text": "Hemicycle\n\nIn legislatures, a hemicycle is a semicircular, or horseshoe-shaped, debating chamber (\"plenary chamber\"), where deputies (members) sit to discuss and pass legislation. Although originally of Ancient Greek roots, the term and modern design derive from French politics and practice.\n\nThe circular shape is designed to encourage consensus among political parties rather than confrontation, such as in the Palace of Westminster, where the government and opposition parties face each other on opposing sets of benches. The design is used in most European countries (and hence was adopted by the European Parliament) and the United States. \n\nThe United Kingdom, which is the originator of the Westminster system, does not use a hemicycle. However, two of the three devolved legislatures, the Scottish Parliament and Welsh Assembly, do use hemicycles; the Northern Ireland Assembly does not use a hemicycle format.\n\nIn the case of Australia (pictured below), the two largest parties still face each other, whereas in the Scottish Parliament's hemicycle, the largest party sits in the middle. However, some hemicycles follow a strict left-right arrangement with, for example, a left wing governing party sitting on the left and the right wing opposition on the right. In these cases election results are often portrayed in the hemicycle to show the results of left wing or right wing coalitions (reaching 50% in the centre, where centrist third parties are located) for the formation of a majority.\n\nSome Westminster-system countries outside the UK, such as India, New Zealand and Australia, have confrontational benches, but the end segment is curved to create a partial hemicycle, while other countries, such as the People's Republic of China, have a single set of benches facing towards a stage area (which reflects the one-party system in operation there).\n"}
{"id": "52298223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52298223", "title": "Himeyuri Peace Museum", "text": "Himeyuri Peace Museum\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4910965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4910965", "title": "Hiroshima Peace Memorial Park", "text": "Hiroshima Peace Memorial Park\n\nThe location of Hiroshima Peace Memorial Park was once the city’s busiest downtown commercial and residential district. The park was built on an open field that was created by the explosion. Today there are a number of memorials and monuments, museums, and lecture halls, which draw over a million visitors annually. The annual 6 August Peace Memorial Ceremony, which is sponsored by the city of Hiroshima, is also held in the park. The purpose of the Peace Memorial Park is to not only memorialize the victims, but also to establish the memory of nuclear horrors and advocate world peace.\n\nThe A-Bomb Dome is the skeletal ruins of the former Hiroshima Prefectural Industrial Promotion Hall. It is the building closest to the hypocenter of the nuclear bomb that remained at least partially standing. It was left how it was after the bombing in memory of the casualties. The A-Bomb Dome, to which a sense of sacredness and transcendence has been attributed, is situated in a distant ceremonial view that is visible from the Peace Memorial Park’s central cenotaph. It is an officially designated site of memory for the nation’s and humanity’s collectively shared heritage of catastrophe. The A-Bomb Dome was added to the UNESCO World Heritage List on December 7, 1996. Many A-Bomb survivors and Hiroshima citizens were pushing for the A-Bomb Dome to be registered as a World Heritage Site as it was \"a symbol of horror and nuclear weapons and humankind's pledge for peace.\"\n\nThe Children's Peace Monument is a statue dedicated to the memory of the children who died as a result of the bombing. The statue is of a girl with outstretched arms with a folded paper crane rising above her. The statue is based on the true story of , a young girl who died from radiation from the bomb. She believed that if she folded 1,000 paper cranes she would be cured. To this day, people (mostly children) from around the world fold cranes and send them to Hiroshima where they are placed near the statue. The statue has a continuously replenished collection of folded cranes nearby.\n\nThe Rest House of Hiroshima Peace Park is another atomic bombed building in the park. The building was built as the Taishoya Kimono Shop in March 1929. It was used as a fuel distribution station when the shortage of fuel began in June 1944. On August 6, 1945, when the bomb exploded, the roof was crushed, the interior destroyed, and everything consumable burned except in the basement. Eventually, 36 people in the building died of the bombing; 47-year-old Eizo Nomura survived in the basement, which had a concrete roof through which radiation had a more difficult time penetrating. He survived into his 80s.\n\nThe former Nakajima District, which today is Peace Memorial Park, was a prominent business quarter of the city during the early years of the Showa period (1926–89) and had been the site of many wooden two-story structures. However, in 1929, the three-story Taishoya Kimono Shop was constructed, surrounded by shops and movie theaters. It was said that if you went up to the roof, a panoramic view of the city awaited. In 1943 the Kimono Shop was closed and in June 1944, as World War II intensified and economic controls became increasingly stringent, the building was purchased by the Prefectural Fuel Rationing Union\n\nAt 8:15 a.m. on August 6, 1945, the explosion of the atomic bomb about 600 meters above the hypocenter destroyed the building’s concrete roof. The interior was also badly damaged and gutted by ensuing fires, and everyone inside was killed except Nomura, who miraculously survived. The building was restored soon after the war and used as the Fuel Hall. In 1957, the Hiroshima East Reconstruction Office, which became the core the city’s reconstruction program, was established there.\n\nAt the time of the bombing, 37 people were working there. All of them perished, with the exception of Eizo Nomura, who had gone down to the basement at that moment and survived the bombing. Nomura, who was then 47, was a worker for the Hiroshima Prefectural Fuel Rationing Union. Nomura managed to escape through rising fire and vigorous smoke. However, after his survival, he struggled with high fever, diarrhea, bleeding gums, and other symptoms caused by the radiation.\n\nAlthough the building was heavily damaged, it stood still and was renovated soon after the war, including a new wooden roof. After the war, the Hiroshima municipal government purchased the building and established a postwar recovery office in it. Today it is used as the Rest House in Peace Memorial Park.\nThe Rest House has been in debates many times over whether or not it should be preserved. In 1995, the city decided to demolish the building, but the plan was put aside. One of the reasons was because of the announcement of the A-Bomb Dome as a World Heritage site.\n\nRight now, the first floor of the Rest House is used as a tourist information office and a souvenir shop, the second/third floors as offices, and the basement is preserved nearly as it was at the time of the bombing.\n\nEvery year on 6 August, \"A-Bomb Day,\" the City of Hiroshima holds the Hiroshima Peace Memorial Ceremony to console the victims of the atomic bombs and to pray for the realization of lasting world peace. The ceremony is held in the morning from 8:00, in front of the Memorial Cenotaph with many citizens including the families of the deceased. During the ceremony, a one-minute silence to honor the victims is observed at 8:15, the time of the atomic bomb's explosion.\n\nIn the evening of the same day, Lantern ceremony is held to send off the spirits of the victims on lanterns with peace messages floating on the waters of the Motoyasu River.\n\nThe Hiroshima Peace Memorial Museum is the primary museum in the park dedicated to educating visitors about the bomb.\nThe Museum has exhibits and information covering the buildup to war, the role of Hiroshima in the war up to the bombing, and extensive information on the bombing and its effects, along with substantial memorabilia and pictures from the bombing.\nThe building also has views of the Memorial Cenotaph, Peace Flame, and A-Bomb Dome.\n\nInternational Conference Center Hiroshima is in the Peace Park, west side of the main building of the Hiroshima Peace Memorial Museum.\n\nThe Hiroshima National Peace Memorial Hall for the Atomic Bomb Victims is an effort by the Japanese national government to remember and mourn the sacred sacrifice of the atomic bomb victims. It is also an expression of Japan's desire for genuine and lasting peace. The Hall contains a number of displays. On the roof, near the entrance (the museum is underground) is a clock frozen at 8:15, the time the bomb went off. The museum contains a seminar room, library, temporary exhibition area, and victims' information area. The Hall of Remembrance, contains a 360 degree panorama of the destroyed Hiroshima recreated using 140,000 tiles — the number of people estimated to have died from the bomb by the end of 1945.\n\nNear the center of the park is a concrete, saddle-shaped monument that covers a cenotaph holding the names of all of the people killed by the bomb. The monument is aligned to frame the Peace Flame and the A-Bomb Dome.\nThe Memorial Cenotaph was one of the first memorial monuments built on open field on August 6, 1952. \nThe arch shape represents a shelter for the souls of the victims.\n\nThe cenotaph carries the epitaph , which means \"please rest in peace, for [we/they] shall not repeat the error.\" In Japanese, the sentence's subject is omitted, thus it could be interpreted as either \"[we] shall not repeat the error\" or as \"[they] shall not repeat the error\". This was intended to memorialize the victims of Hiroshima without politicizing the issue, taking advantage of the fact that polite Japanese speech typically demands lexical ambiguity in the first place. The epitaph was written by Tadayoshi Saika, Professor of English Literature at Hiroshima University. He also provided the English translation, \"Let all the souls here rest in peace for we shall not repeat the evil.\" On November 3, 1983, an explanation plaque in English was added in order to convey Professor Saika's intent that \"we\" refers to \"all humanity\", not specifically the Japanese or Americans, and that the \"error\" is the \"evil of war\":\n\nPerhaps unsurprisingly, the ambiguity of the phrase has the potential to offend; some right-wing circles in Japan have interpreted the words as an admission of guilt—implicitly reading it as \"we (the Japanese people) shall not repeat the error\"—and they criticize the epitaph as a self-accusation by the Japanese empire. In July 2005, the cenotaph was vandalized by a Japanese man affiliated with the Japanese right.\n\nThe Peace Flame is another monument to the victims of the bomb that destroyed Hiroshima, but it has an additional symbolic purpose.\nThe flame has burned continuously since it was lit in 1964, and will remain lit until all nuclear bombs on the planet are destroyed and the planet is free from the threat of nuclear annihilation.\n\nThere are three Peace Bells in the Peace Park. The smaller one is used only for the Peace Memorial Ceremony. Except that day, it is displayed in the east building of Hiroshima Peace Memorial Museum. The more well-known Peace Bell stands near the Children's Peace Monument and consists of a large Japanese bell hanging inside a small open-sided structure. Visitors are encouraged to ring the bell for world peace and the loud and melodious tolling of this bell rings out regularly throughout the Peace Park. The Peace Bell was built out in the open on September 20, 1964. The surface of the bell is a map of the world, and the \"sweet spot\" is an atomic symbol, designed by Masahiko Katori [1899–1988], cast by Oigo Bell Works, in Takaoka, Toyama. The inscriptions on the bell are in Greek (γνῶθι σεαυτόν), Japanese, and Sanskrit. It is translated as \"Know yourself.\" The Greek embassy donated the bell to the Peace Park and picked out the most appropriate ancient Greek philosophical quote of Socrates. The Sanskrit text is a quotation from Longer Sukhāvatīvyūha Sūtra which was attested by the Indian ambassador. The Japanese text was provided by a university lecturer.\n\nThe Atomic Bomb Memorial Mound is a large, grass-covered knoll that contains the cremated ashes of 70,000 unidentified victims of the bomb.\n\nAmong the 400,000 people who were killed or exposed to lethal post-explosion radiation, at least 45,000 were Korean, but the number is uncertain, because the population has been neglected as the minority. Additionally, 300,000 survivors of Hiroshima and Nagasaki returned to Korea after liberation from Japanese colonialism. The monument, decorated with Korean national symbols, is intended to honour Korean victims and survivors of the atomic bomb and Japanese colonialism. The monument's inscription reads \"The Monument in Memory of the Korean Victims of the A[tomic]-Bomb. In memory of the souls of His Highness Prince Yi Wu and over 20000 other souls\", while the side-inscription reads \"Souls of the dead ride to heaven on the backs of turtles.\"\n\nAdded in 2005, this monument contains ten gates covered with the word \"peace\" in 49 languages from around the world. The gates represent the nine circles of Hell plus one: \"the living hell of Hiroshima caused by the atomic bombing.\" Each gate is 9 meters high and 2.6 meters wide.\n\nThe Association for the Mobilized Student Victims of Hiroshima Prefecture built this tower in May 1967 in order to console the souls of over 10,000 students, including those who were Atomic Bomb victims, who died in bombings during the Pacific War. In Hiroshima, there were 8,387 students who were mobilized; 6,907 of which were killed in the Atomic Bombing. The memorial is twelve meters tall, five stories, and is decorated with the Goddess of Peace as well as eight doves which are placed around the tower. To the sides of the tower are plaques which depict the work that the students did, such as factory work, female students sewing, or showing students working to increase food production. There is a plaque in front of the tower which has two buttons that narrate the background information in either Japanese or English.\n\n\nHiroshima Flower Festival is held from the 3rd of May to the 5th during Japanese Golden Week, in the Peace Park and Peace Boulevard.\n\nHiroshima Dreamination is held in winter.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33051191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33051191", "title": "Human rights in Papua New Guinea", "text": "Human rights in Papua New Guinea\n\nPapua New Guinea (PNG) is a constitutional parliamentary democracy with an estimated population of 6,187,591. Police brutality, provincial power struggles, violence against women, and government corruption all contribute to the low awareness of basic human rights in the country.\n\nThe Constitution of Papua New Guinea entered into force on the 16 September 1975. It is one of the few unique constitutions around the world that contains almost all the rights and freedoms enshrined the United Nations Charter and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights 1948. The constitution contains many civil and political rights that are able to be enforced by the judiciary. These include right to freedom (Section 32); right to life (Section 35); freedom from inhuman treatment (Section 36); freedom of conscience, thought and religion (Section 45); freedom of expression (Section 46) and right to vote and stand for public office (Section 50). Economic, social and cultural rights are not included in the constitution and are instead provided for in the National Goals and Directive Principles. These remain as guidelines and are non-justiciable.\n\nHowever, the Constitution does not include “gender” or “sex” as a prohibited ground of discrimination, which is inconsistent with PNG’s obligations under the UN Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, Article 2.\n\nPNG has ratified 6 of the core human rights treaties; the third highest number in the Pacific behind New Zealand and Australia. These include the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR), International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR), the International Convention for the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination (CERD), the Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC), the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW) and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD), ratified in 2013. Despite this the most recent Amnesty International submission prepared for the Universal Periodic Review (UPR) of PNG in May 2011 found that reporting by the government of PNG on its obligations under the international human rights treaties to which it is party has been very poor.\n\nPNG joined the United Nations(UN) in 1975 and on the 11 May 2011 extended a standing invitation to all the thematic mechanisms of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights to visit the country. In May 2010 the United Nations Special Rapporteur on Torture visited PNG and suggested that the country urgently Ratify the Convention Against Torture (CAT) and its Optional Protocol. As well as this the rapporteur also suggested that PNG ratify the first Optional Protocol to the ICCPR which provides for the right of victims to lodge individual complaints to the United Nations Human Rights Committee and also the second Optional Protocol aiming at the abolition of the death penalty. PNG has not yet ratified these instruments.\n\nIn 1997, the government approved in principle the establishment of a human rights commission for PNG with the minimum standards set by the Paris Principles. This commitment was reaffirmed in 2007 with the presentation of the 2007 Final Option Paper on the establishment of the PNG human rights commission; and in 2008 a draft organic law on the establishment of a human rights commission was prepared. This draft Bill has yet to go through the parliamentary process and it is unclear whether the O'Neill Government remains committed to the establishment of this institution.\n\nThe Constitution provides for the right of citizens to change their government peacefully which is exercised in practice through periodic elections. All citizens possess the right to vote and political parties are able to operate free from restriction and outside influence. However, in the most recent elections violence was common in the Highlands which compromised the possibility of free and fair voting.\n\nThe right to freedom of speech and freedom of press as provided for in the Constitution are generally respected. There is no evidence of officially sanctioned government censorship, however newspaper owners have complained about intimidation tactics being used in an attempt to influence coverage.\n\nThe right to freedom of assembly is also present in the constitution however is often limited in practice. Public demonstrations require 14 days notice as well as police approval which is rarely granted.\n\nPapua New Guinea is often labelled as potentially the worst place in the world for violence against women.\n\nA study by Rachel Jewkes et al., in The Lancet in 2013, on behalf of the United Nations Multi-country Cross-sectional Study on Men and Violence research team, found that 41% of men on Bougainville Island, Papua New Guinea, admit to raping a non-partner. About 14.1% of men have committed multiple perpetrator rape. Other research indicates that two thirds of women have experienced domestic violence and fifty percent of women have experienced forced sex. Rape is a crime punishable by imprisonment however a prevalent culture of silence has resulted in few rapists being apprehended. Police officials have been directly implicated in the widespread sexual violence against women.\n\nPolygyny; the custom of paying a ‘bride price’ to obtain a bride is a recurring problem, as is using women as compensation between tribes to settle disputes. The courts have ruled that such settlements have denied the women their constitutional rights. In July 2010 the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women urged the government to \"put in place without delay a comprehensive strategy, including legislation, to modify or eliminate customary practices and stereotypes that discriminate against women in conformity with articles 2, 2 (f) and 5 (a) of the Convention.\" There are no employment or antidiscrimination laws.\n\nWomen are 6 times more likely to be accused of sorcery than men and hundreds of accused witches and sorcerers are killed annually. The accusers often hire diviners known as a \"Glass man\" or \"Glass mary\" to confirm the accusation. The accused are often the weak of society, such as widows, while those with sons to support them have a higher chance of not being accused. Relatives often reject giving refuge to the accused because they have been paid a bride price by the husband, which would have to be returned if the wife leaves the husband. While killing witches used to be done discreetly, it has grown into a public spectacle. \n\nIn 2009, a group of men stripped a woman naked, bound her hands and feet, forced a cloth in her mouth and then burnt her to death on a dumpsite. In 2009 a committee was established under the Constitutional Review and Law Reform Commission, to review the laws relating to sorcery and other measures to curb the number of sorcery-related murders. In 2013, the government repealed a law that criminalized sorcery and the use of accusing someone of witchcraft as a defense in murder trials.\n\nAccording to UNICEF, nearly half of reported rape victims are under 15 years of age and 13% are under 7 years of age, while a report by ChildFund Australia citing former Parliamentarian Dame Carol Kidu claimed 50% of those seeking medical help after rape are under 16, 25% are under 12 and 10% are under 8.\n\nWith over 800 indigenous tribes and languages PNG is one of the most heterogeneous countries in the world. Recognition of indigenous rights in the country is poor and the divide in language, customs and tradition, has resulted in regular intertribal feuds. PNG has not ratified either the ILO Convention on Indigenous and Tribal Peoples in Independent Countries 1989 (CITP) or the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples.\n\nOn May 27, 2010 the government of PNG passed the Environment (Amendment) Bill 2010 which amends sections of the Environment and Conservation Act 2000 and gives the Secretary of the Department of Conservation the power to approve activities by mining and petroleum companies without the agreement of the traditional landowners. Any approval issued by the director will be final and “may not be challenged or reviewed in any court or tribunal, except at the instigation of an Authorization Instrument”.\n\nThese amendments are in contravention of the right of indigenous people to own land under s 53 of the constitution and Article’s 14, 15 and 16 of the CITP as well as traditional customary law which recognises indigenous customary title to land. They also violate article 15.2 of the CITP which asserts that where the state retains ownership of sub-surface resources they shall consult indigenous peoples before undertaking or permitting any programs for the exploitation of such resources in regards to their lands.\n\nAlthough the right of indigenous peoples to own land is protected under the constitution, this only pertains to the first six feet below the surface of the land. As a result, the government can lease mining rights to companies to mine below the lands surface. Mining corporation Barrick Gold has been leased mining rights to mine in Porgera in the Eastern Highlands. As a result, there have been forced eviction of people from their homes and serious misconduct by police in this area. Amnesty International found that there were no effective means for people of the public could complain against the police acting in violation of international law and standards.\n\nThe following chart shows Papua New Guinea's ratings since 1975 in the Freedom in the World reports, published annually by Freedom House. A score of 1 is \"most free\" and 7 is \"least free\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42053808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42053808", "title": "Intel Management Engine", "text": "Intel Management Engine\n\nThe Intel Management Engine (ME), also known as the Manageability Engine, is an autonomous subsystem that has been incorporated in virtually all of Intel's processor chipsets since 2008. The subsystem primarily consists of proprietary firmware running on a separate microprocessor that performs tasks during boot-up, while the computer is running, and while it is asleep. As long as the chipset or SoC is connected to current (via battery or power supply), it continues to run even when the system is turned off. Intel claims the ME is required to provide full performance. Its exact workings are largely undocumented and its code is obfuscated using confidential huffman tables stored directly in hardware, so the firmware does not contain the information necessary to decode its contents. Intel's main competitor AMD has incorporated the equivalent AMD Secure Technology (formally called Platform Security Processor) in virtually all of its post-2013 CPUs.\n\nThe Management Engine is often confused with Intel AMT. AMT runs on the ME, but is only available on processors with vPro. AMT enables owners remote administration of their computer, like turning it on or off and reinstalling the operating system. However, the ME itself is built into all Intel chipsets since 2008, not only those with AMT. While AMT can be unprovisioned by the owner, there is no official, documented way to disable the ME.\n\nThe Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) and security expert Damien Zammit accuse the ME of being a backdoor and a privacy concern. Zammit states that the ME has full access to memory (without the parent CPU having any knowledge); has full access to the TCP/IP stack and can send and receive network packets independent of the operating system, thus bypassing its firewall. Intel asserts that it \"does not put back doors in its products\" and that its products do not \"give Intel control or access to computing systems without the explicit permission of the end user.\"\n\nSeveral weaknesses have been found in the ME. On May 1, 2017, Intel confirmed a Remote Elevation of Privilege bug (SA-00075) in its Management Technology. Every Intel platform with provisioned Intel Standard Manageability, Active Management Technology, or Small Business Technology, from Nehalem in 2008 to Kaby Lake in 2017 has a remotely exploitable security hole in the ME. Several ways to disable the ME without authorization that could allow ME's functions to be sabotaged have been found. Additional major security flaws in the ME affecting a very large number of computers incorporating ME, Trusted Execution Engine (TXE), and Server Platform Services (SPS) firmware, from Skylake in 2015 to Coffee Lake in 2017, were confirmed by Intel on 20 November 2017 (SA-00086). Unlike SA-00075, this bug is even present if AMT is absent, not provisioned or if the ME was \"disabled\" by any of the known unofficial methods. In July 2018 another set of vulnerabilitites were disclosed (SA-00112). In September 2018, yet another vulnerability was published (SA-00125).\n\nStarting with ME 11, it is based on the Intel Quark x86-based 32-bit CPU and runs the MINIX 3 operating system. The ME state is stored in a partition of the SPI flash, using the Embedded Flash File System (EFFS). Previous versions were based on an ARC core, with the Management Engine running the ThreadX RTOS from Express Logic. Versions 1.x to 5.x of the ME used the ARCTangent-A4 (32-bit only instructions) whereas versions 6.x to 8.x used the newer ARCompact (mixed 32- and 16-bit instruction set architecture). Starting with ME 7.1, the ARC processor could also execute signed Java applets.\n\nThe ME has its own MAC and IP address for the out-of-band interface, with direct access to the Ethernet controller; one portion of the Ethernet traffic is diverted to the ME even before reaching the host's operating system, for what support exists in various Ethernet controllers, exported and made configurable via Management Component Transport Protocol (MCTP). The ME also communicates with the host via PCI interface. Under Linux, communication between the host and the ME is done via /dev/mei.\n\nUntil the release of Nehalem processors, the ME was usually embedded into the motherboard's northbridge, following the Memory Controller Hub (MCH) layout. With the newer Intel architectures (Intel 5 Series onwards), ME is included into the Platform Controller Hub (PCH).\n\nBy Intel's current terminology as of 2017, ME is one of several firmware sets for the Converged Security and Manageability Engine (CSME). Prior to AMT version 11, CSME was called Intel Management Engine BIOS Extension (Intel MEBx).\n\n\nThe Russian company Positive Technologies (Dmitry Sklyarov) found that the ME firmware version 11 runs MINIX 3.\n\n\nIt is normally not possible for the user to disable the ME. Potentially risky, undocumented methods to do so were discovered, however. These methods are not supported by Intel. The ME's security architecture is supposed to prevent disabling, and thus its possibility is considered a security vulnerability. For example, a virus could abuse it to make the computer lose some of the functionality that the typical end-user expects, such as the ability to play media with DRM. Yet, critics consider the weaknesses not as bugs, but as features.\n\nStrictly speaking, none of the known methods disables the ME completely, since it is required for booting the main CPU. All known methods merely make the ME go into abnormal states soon after boot, in which it seems not to have any working functionality. The ME is still physically connected to the current and its microprocessor is continuing to execute code.\n\nIn 2016, the me_cleaner project found that the ME's integrity verification is broken. The ME is supposed to detect that it has been tampered with, and, if this is the case, shut down the PC forcibly after 30 minutes. This prevents a compromised system from running undetected, yet allows the owner to fix the issue by flashing a valid version of the ME firmware during the grace period. As the project found out, by making unauthorized changes to the ME firmware, it was possible to force it into an abnormal error state that prevented triggering the shutdown even if large parts of the firmware had been overwritten and thus made inoperable.\n\nIn August 2017, Russian company Positive Technologies (Dmitry Sklyarov) published a method to disable the ME via an undocumented built-in mode. As Intel has confirmed the ME contains a switch to enable government authorities such as the NSA to make the ME go into High-Assurance Platform (HAP) mode after boot. This mode disables most of ME's functions. It is authorized for use by government authorities only and is supposed to be available only in machines produced for them. Yet it turned out that most machines sold on the retail market can be tricked into activating the switch.. Manipulation of the HAP bit was quickly incorporated into the me_cleaner project.\n\nIn late 2017, several laptop vendors announced their intentions to ship laptops with the Intel ME disabled:\n\n\n\n\nNone of the two methods to disable the ME discovered so far turned out to be an effective countermeasure against the SA-00086 vulnerability. This is because the vulnerability is in an early-loaded ME module that is essential to boot the main CPU.\n\nA ring −3 rootkit was demonstrated by Invisible Things Lab for the Q35 chipset; it does not work for the later Q45 chipset as Intel implemented additional protections. The exploit worked by remapping the normally protected memory region (top 16 MB of RAM) reserved for the ME. The ME rootkit could be installed regardless of whether the AMT is present or enabled on the system, as the chipset always contains the ARC ME coprocessor. (The \"−3\" designation was chosen because the ME coprocessor works even when the system is in the S3 state, thus it was considered a layer below the System Management Mode rootkits.) For the vulnerable Q35 chipset, a keystroke logger ME-based rootkit was demonstrated by Patrick Stewin.\n\nAnother security evaluation by Vassilios Ververis showed serious weaknesses in the GM45 chipset implementation. In particular, it criticized AMT for transmitting unencrypted passwords in the SMB provisioning mode when the IDE redirection and Serial over LAN features are used. It also found that the \"zero touch\" provisioning mode (ZTC) is still enabled even when the AMT appears to be disabled in BIOS. For about 60 euros, Ververis purchased from Go Daddy a certificate that is accepted by the ME firmware and allows remote \"zero touch\" provisioning of (possibly unsuspecting) machines, which broadcast their HELLO packets to would-be configuration servers.\n\nIn May 2017, Intel confirmed that many computers with AMT have had an unpatched critical privilege escalation vulnerability (CVE-2017-5689). The vulnerability, which was nicknamed \"Silent Bob is Silent\" by the researchers who had reported it to Intel, affects numerous laptops, desktops and servers sold by Dell, Fujitsu, Hewlett-Packard (later Hewlett Packard Enterprise and HP Inc.), Intel, Lenovo, and possibly others. Those researchers claimed that the bug affects systems made in 2010 or later. Other reports claimed the bug also affects systems made as long ago as 2008. The vulnerability was described as giving remote attackers:\n\nIn June 2017, the PLATINUM cybercrime group became notable for exploiting the serial over LAN (SOL) capabilities of AMT to perform data exfiltration of stolen documents.\n\nSome months after the previous bugs, and subsequent warnings from the EFF, security firm Positive Technologies claimed to have developed a working exploit. On 20 November, 2017 Intel confirmed that a number of serious flaws had been found in the Management Engine (mainstream), Trusted Execution Engine (tablet/mobile), and Server Platform Services (high end server) firmware, and released a \"critical firmware update\". Essentially every Intel-based computer for the last several years, including most desktops and servers, were found to be vulnerable to having their security compromised, although all the potential routes of exploitation were not entirely known. It is not possible to patch the problems from the operating system, and a firmware (UEFI, BIOS) update to the motherboard is required, which was anticipated to take quite some time for the many individual manufacturers to accomplish, if it ever would be for many systems.\n\n\nNone of the known unofficial methods to disable the ME prevent exploitation of the vulnerability. A firmware update by the vendor is required. However, those who discovered the vulnerability note that firmware updates are not fully effective either, as an attacker with access to the ME firmware region can simply flash an old, vulnerable version and then exploit the bug.\n\nIn July 2018 Intel announced that 3 vulnerabilities (CVE-2018-3628, CVE-2018-3629 and CVE-2018-3632) had been discovered and that a patch for the CSME firmware would be required. Intel indicated there would be no patch for 3rd generation Core processors or earlier despite chips or their chipsets as far back as Intel Core 2 Duo vPro and Intel Centrino 2 vPro being affected.\n\nCritics like the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) and security expert Damien Zammit accused the ME of being a backdoor and a privacy concern. Zammit stresses that the ME has full access to memory (without the parent CPU having any knowledge); has full access to the TCP/IP stack and can send and receive network packets independently of the operating system, thus bypassing its firewall.\n\nIntel responded by saying that \"Intel does not put back doors in its products nor do our products give Intel control or access to computing systems without the explicit permission of the end user.\" and \"Intel does not and will not design backdoors for access into its products. Recent reports claiming otherwise are misinformed and blatantly false. Intel does not participate in any efforts to decrease security of its technology.\"\n\nIn the context of criticism of the Intel ME and AMD Secure Technology it has been pointed out that the NSA budget request for 2013 contained a Sigint Enabling Project with the goal to \"Insert vulnerabilities into commercial encryption systems, IT systems, …\" and it has been conjectured that Intel ME and AMD Secure Technology might be part of that programme.\n\n, Google was attempting to eliminate proprietary firmware from its servers and found that the ME was a hurdle to that.\nShortly after SA-00086 was patched, vendors for AMD processor mainboards started shipping BIOS updates that allow disabling the AMD Secure Technology, a subsystem with similar function as the ME.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "631063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=631063", "title": "Key management", "text": "Key management\n\nKey management refers to management of cryptographic keys in a cryptosystem. This includes dealing with the generation, exchange, storage, use, crypto-shredding (destruction) and replacement of keys. It includes cryptographic protocol design, key servers, user procedures, and other relevant protocols.\n\nKey management concerns keys at the user level, either between users or systems. This is in contrast to key scheduling, which typically refers to the internal handling of keys within the operation of a cipher.\n\nSuccessful key management is critical to the security of a cryptosystem. It is the more challenging side of cryptography in a sense that it involves aspects of social engineering such as system policy, user training, organizational and departmental interactions, and coordination between all of these elements, in contrast to pure mathematical practices that can be automated.\n\nCryptographic systems may use different types of keys, with some systems using more than one. These may include symmetric keys or asymmetric keys. In a symmetric key algorithm the keys involved are identical for both encrypting and decrypting a message. Keys must be chosen carefully, and distributed and stored securely. Asymmetric keys, also known as public keys, in contrast are two distinct keys that are mathematically linked. They are typically used together to communicate. Public key infrastructure (PKI), the implementation of public key cryptography, requires an organization to establish an infrastructure to create and manage public and private key pairs along with digital certificates.\n\nThe starting point in any certificate and private key management strategy is to create a comprehensive inventory of all certificates, their locations and responsible parties. This is not a trivial matter because certificates from a variety of sources are deployed in a variety of locations by different individuals and teams - it's simply not possible to rely on a list from a single certificate authority. Certificates that are not renewed and replaced before they expire can cause serious downtime and outages. Some other considerations:\n\nOnce keys are inventoried, key management typically consists of three steps: exchange, storage and use.\n\nPrior to any secured communication, users must set up the details of the cryptography. In some instances this may require exchanging identical keys (in the case of a symmetric key system). In others it may require possessing the other party's public key. While public keys can be openly exchanged (their corresponding private key is kept secret), symmetric keys must be exchanged over a secure communication channel. Formerly, exchange of such a key was extremely troublesome, and was greatly eased by access to secure channels such as a diplomatic bag. Clear text exchange of symmetric keys would enable any interceptor to immediately learn the key, and any encrypted data.\n\nThe advance of public key cryptography in the 1970s has made the exchange of keys less troublesome. Since the Diffie-Hellman key exchange protocol was published in 1975, it has become possible to exchange a key over an insecure communications channel, which has substantially reduced the risk of key disclosure during distribution. It is possible, using something akin to a book code, to include key indicators as clear text attached to an encrypted message. The encryption technique used by Richard Sorge's code clerk was of this type, referring to a page in a statistical manual, though it was in fact a code. The German Army Enigma symmetric encryption key was a mixed type early in its use; the key was a combination of secretly distributed key schedules and a user chosen session key component for each message.\n\nIn more modern systems, such as OpenPGP compatible systems, a session key for a symmetric key algorithm is distributed encrypted by an asymmetric key algorithm. This approach avoids even the necessity for using a key exchange protocol like Diffie-Hellman key exchange.\n\nAnother method of key exchange involves encapsulating one key within another. Typically a master key is generated and exchanged using some secure method. This method is usually cumbersome or expensive (breaking a master key into multiple parts and sending each with a trusted courier for example) and not suitable for use on a larger scale. Once the master key has been securely exchanged, it can then be used to securely exchange subsequent keys with ease. This technique is usually termed key wrap. A common technique uses block ciphers and cryptographic hash functions.\n\nA related method is to exchange a master key (sometimes termed a root key) and derive subsidiary keys as needed from that key and some other data (often referred to as diversification data). The most common use for this method is probably in smartcard-based cryptosystems, such as those found in banking cards. The bank or credit network embeds their secret key into the card's secure key storage during card production at a secured production facility. Then at the point of sale the card and card reader are both able to derive a common set of session keys based on the shared secret key and card-specific data (such as the card serial number). This method can also be used when keys must be related to each other (i.e., departmental keys are tied to divisional keys, and individual keys tied to departmental keys). However, tying keys to each other in this way increases the damage which may result from a security breach as attackers will learn something about more than one key. This reduces entropy, with regard to an attacker, for each key involved.\n\nHowever distributed, keys must be stored securely to maintain communications security. Security is a big concern and hence there are various techniques in use to do so. Likely the most common is that an encryption application manages keys for the user and depends on an access password to control use of the key. Likewise, in the case of smartphone keyless access platforms, they keep all identifying door information off mobile phones and servers and encrypt all data, where just like low-tech keys, users give codes only to those they trust.\n\nThe major issue is length of time a key is to be used, and therefore frequency of replacement. Because it increases any attacker's required effort, keys should be frequently changed. This also limits loss of information, as the number of stored encrypted messages which will become readable when a key is found will decrease as the frequency of key change increases. Historically, symmetric keys have been used for long periods in situations in which key exchange was very difficult or only possible intermittently. Ideally, the symmetric key should change with each message or interaction, so that only that message will become readable if the key is learned (\"e.g.\", stolen, cryptanalyzed, or social engineered).\n\nSeveral challenges IT organizations face when trying to control and manage their encryption keys are:\n\nKey management compliance refers to the oversight, assurance and capability of being able to demonstrate that keys are securely managed. This includes the following individual compliance domains:\n\n\nCompliance can be achieved with respect to national and international data protection standards and regulations, such as Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, Sarbanes–Oxley Act, or General Data Protection Regulation.\n\nA \"key management system\" (KMS), also known as a \"cryptographic key management system\" (CKMS), is an integrated approach for generating, distributing and managing cryptographic keys for devices and applications. They may cover all aspects of security - from the secure generation of keys over the secure exchange of keys up to secure key handling and storage on the client. Thus, a KMS includes the backend functionality for key generation, distribution, and replacement as well as the client functionality for injecting keys, storing and managing keys on devices.\n\nMany specific applications have developed their own key management systems with home grown protocols. However, as systems become more interconnected keys need to be shared between those different systems. To facilitate this, key management standards have evolved to define the protocols used to manage and exchange cryptographic keys and related information.\n\nKMIP is an extensible key management protocol that has been developed by many organizations working within the OASIS standards body. The first version was released in 2010, and it has been further developed by an active technical committee.\n\nThe protocol allows for the creation of keys and their distribution among disparate software systems that need to utilize them. It covers the full key life cycle of both symmetric and asymmetric keys in a variety of formats, the wrapping of keys, provisioning schemes, and cryptographic operations as well as meta data associated with the keys.\n\nThe protocol is backed by an extensive series of test cases, and interoperability testing is performed between compliant systems each year.\n\nA list of some 80 products that conform to the KMIP standard can be found on the OASIS website.\n\n\nThe security policy of a key management system provides the rules that are to be used to protect keys and metadata that the key management system supports. As defined by the National Institute of Standards and Technology NIST, the policy shall establish and specify rules for this information that will protect its:\n\nThis protection covers the complete key life-cycle from the time the key becomes operational to its elimination.\n\n\"Bring your own encryption\" (BYOE)—also called \"bring your own key\" (BYOK)—refers to a cloud-computing security model to allow public-cloud customers to use their own encryption software and manage their own encryption keys.\nThis security model is usually considered a marketing stunt, as critical keys are being handed over to third parties (cloud providers) and key owners are still left with the operational burden of generating, rotating and sharing their keys.\n\nA public-key infrastructure is a type of key management system that uses hierarchical digital certificates to provide authentication, and public keys to provide encryption. PKIs are used in World Wide Web traffic, commonly in the form of SSL and TLS.\n\nGroup key management means managing the keys in a group communication. Most of the group communications use multicast communication so that if the message is sent once by the sender, it will be received by all the users. The main problem in multicast group communication is its security. In order to improve the security, various keys are given to the users. Using the keys, the users can encrypt their messages and send them secretly. IETF.org released RFC 4046, entitled Multicast Security (MSEC) Group Key Management Architecture, which discusses the challenges of group key management.\n\nQ* \"The IEEE Security in Storage Working Group (SISWG) that is creating the P1619.3 standard for Key Management\"\n"}
{"id": "16185439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16185439", "title": "Los Angeles Consular Corps", "text": "Los Angeles Consular Corps\n\nThe Los Angeles Consular Corps is an informal organization representing 105 consulates located in Los Angeles, California.\n\nLos Angeles has the second largest consular community in the world, after New York City.\n\nNew York City is home to the United Nations, which means that every country has a formal presence in New York. Therefore, Los Angeles is particularly unique because it is neither a national capital (or even a state capital), nor headquarters for a major international organization such as the UN, nor a major financial center (such as Sydney, Shanghai, and Frankfurt) and still has attracted over one hundred foreign consulates. It is clear that among \"normal\" cities, Los Angeles has the largest consular community in the world.\n\nGenerally, the consulates in Los Angeles have jurisdiction over the regions of Southern California, while some serve the entire state of California, and other parts of the Western United States.\n\nLos Angeles offers an important and strategic location: being inside the United States, in the major state of California, and at the crossroads of both Asia and Latin America. Its location on the Pacific Rim makes it an obvious choice for most countries to locate its consulate. Also, Los Angeles boasts one of the busiest major airports in the world: LAX, also the Port of Los Angeles is the largest maritime port in the United States, and North America, and is the 4th largest in the world. Los Angeles is the largest city in California, and the second largest in the U.S., and is the world's capital for entertainment. Many factors make Los Angeles an important place on the global stage. The Los Angeles customs district is the largest in the U.S. in terms of international trade capital and volume.\n\nIn demographic terms, Los Angeles is arguably the most ethnically diverse region in the world. With nearly 300 languages spoken, and the largest communities of Koreans, Armenians, Persians, Filipinos, Taiwanese, Guatemalans, Mexicans, and Canadians outside their respective countries of origin, L.A. is a cosmopolitan and international melting pot.\n\nAs of December 2017, leadership of the Los Angeles Consular Corps is as follows:\n\nThe majority of the said consulates in Los Angeles are located in the Wilshire area, West L.A., and Beverly Hills.\n\nThe government offices responsible for dealing with the foreign consulates in Los Angeles are:\n\n\nAdditionally, the Los Angeles Consular Corps includes foreign trade missions, foreign commercial offices:\n\n"}
{"id": "20355063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20355063", "title": "Malaysian Solidarity Consolidation Committee", "text": "Malaysian Solidarity Consolidation Committee\n\nThe Malaysian Solidarity Consolidation Committee was an organisation formed by political leaders from Malaya and northern Borneo, who favoured the creation of Malaysia. The Committee held its first meeting on 25 August 1961, in Jesselton, Sabah.\n"}
{"id": "55204373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55204373", "title": "Maritime Silk Road", "text": "Maritime Silk Road\n\nMaritime Silk Road or Maritime Silk Route refer to the maritime section of historic Silk Road that connects China to Southeast Asia, Indonesian archipelago, Indian subcontinent, Arabian peninsula, Somalia and all the way to Egypt and finally Europe, that flourished between 2nd-century BCE and 15th-century CE. \n\nThe trade route encompassed numbers of seas and ocean; including South China Sea, Strait of Malacca, Indian Ocean, Gulf of Bengal, Arabian Sea, Persian Gulf and the Red Sea. The maritime route overlaps with historic Southeast Asian maritime trade, Spice trade, Indian Ocean trade and after 8th century—the Arabian naval trade network. The network also extend eastward to East China Sea and Yellow Sea to connect China with Korean Peninsula and Japanese archipelago.\n\nOn May 2017, experts from various fields have held a meeting in London to discuss the proposal to nominate \"Maritime Silk Route\" as a new UNESCO World Heritage Site.\n\n"}
{"id": "2472321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2472321", "title": "Micro hydro", "text": "Micro hydro\n\nMicro hydro is a type of hydroelectric power that typically produces from 5 kW to 100 kW of electricity using the natural flow of water. Installations below 5 kW are called pico hydro. These installations can provide power to an isolated home or small community, or are sometimes connected to electric power networks, particularly where net metering is offered.\nThere are many of these installations around the world, particularly in developing nations as they can provide an economical source of energy without the purchase of fuel. Micro hydro systems complement solar PV power systems because in many areas, water flow, and thus available hydro power, is highest in the winter when solar energy is at a minimum. Micro hydro is frequently accomplished with a pelton wheel for high head, low flow water supply. The installation is often just a small dammed pool, at the top of a waterfall, with several hundred feet of pipe leading to a small generator housing. In low head sites, generally water wheels and Archimedes screws are used. \n\nConstruction details of a microhydro plant are site-specific. Sometimes an existing mill-pond or other artificial reservoir is available and can be adapted for power production. In general, microhydro systems are made up of a number of components. The most important include the intake where water is diverted from the natural stream, river, or perhaps a waterfall. An intake structure such as a catch box is required to screen out floating debris and fish, using a screen or array of bars to keep out large objects. In temperate climates, this structure must resist ice as well. The intake may have a gate to allow the system to be dewatered for inspection and maintenance.\n\nThe intake is then brought through a canal and then forebay. The forebay is used for sediment holding. At the bottom of the system the water is tunneled through a pipeline (penstock) to the powerhouse building containing a turbine. The penstock builds up pressure from the water that has traveled downwards.In mountainous areas, access to the route of the penstock may provide considerable challenges. If the water source and turbine are far apart, the construction of the penstock may be the largest part of the costs of construction. At the turbine, a controlling valve is installed to regulate the flow and the speed of the turbine. The turbine converts the flow and pressure of the water to mechanical energy; the water emerging from the turbine returns to the natural watercourse along a tailrace channel. The turbine turns a generator, which is then connected to electrical loads; this might be directly connected to the power system of a single building in very small installations, or may be connected to a community distribution system for several homes or buildings.\n\nUsually, microhydro installations do not have a dam and reservoir, like large hydroelectric plants have, relying on a minimal flow of water to be available year-round.\n\nMicrohydro systems are typically set up in areas capable of producing up to 100 kilowatts of electricity. This can be enough to power a home or small business facility. This production range is calculated in terms of \"head\" and \"flow\". The higher each of these are, the more power available. Hydraulic head is the pressure measurement of water falling in a pipe expressed as a function of the vertical distance the water falls. This change in elevation is usually measured in feet or meters. A drop of at least 2 feet is required or the system may not be feasible. When quantifying head, both gross and net head must be considered. Gross head approximates power accessibility through the vertical distance measurement alone whereas net head subtracts pressure lost due to friction in piping from the gross head. \"Flow\" is the actual quantity of water falling from a site and is usually measured in gallons per minute, cubic feet per second, or liters per second. Low flow/high head installations in steep terrain have significant pipe costs. A long penstock starts with low pressure pipe at the top and progressively higher pressure pipe closer to the turbine in order to reduce pipe costs.\n\nThe available power, in kilowatts, from such a system can be calculated by the equation P=Q*H/k, where Q is the flow rate in gallons per minute, H is the static head, and k is a constant of 5,310 gal*ft/min*kW. For instance, for a system with a flow of 500 gallons per minute and a static head of 60 feet, the theoretical maximum power output is 5.65 kW. The system is prevented from 100% efficiency (from obtaining all 5.65 kW) due to the real world, such as: turbine efficiency, friction in pipe, and conversion from potential to kinetic energy. Turbine efficiency is generally between 50-80%, and pipe friction is accounted for using the Hazen–Williams equation.\n\nTypically, an automatic controller operates the turbine inlet valve to maintain constant speed (and frequency) when the load changes on the generator. In a system connected to a grid with multiple sources, the turbine control ensures that power always flows out from the generator to the system. The frequency of the alternating current generated needs to match the local standard utility frequency. In some systems, if the useful load on the generator is not high enough, a load bank may be automatically connected to the generator to dissipate energy not required by the load; while this wastes energy, it may be required if it's not possible to control the water flow through the turbine.\n\nAn induction generator always operates at the grid frequency irrespective of its rotation speed; all that is necessary is to ensure that it is driven by the turbine faster than the synchronous speed so that it generates power rather than consuming it. Other types of generator can use a speed control systems for frequency matching.\n\nWith the availability of modern power electronics it is often easier to operate the generator at an arbitrary frequency and feed its output through an inverter which produces output at grid frequency. Power electronics now allow the use of permanent magnet alternators that produce wild AC to be stabilised. This approach allows low speed / low head water turbines to be competitive; they can run at the best speed for extraction of energy, and the power frequency is controlled by the electronics instead of the generator.\n\nVery small installations (pico hydro), a few kilowatts or smaller, may generate direct current and charge batteries for peak use times.\n\nSeveral types of water turbines can be used in micro hydro installations, selection depending on the head of water, the volume of flow, and such factors as availability of local maintenance and transport of equipment to the site. For hilly regions where a waterfall of 50 meters or more may be available, a Pelton wheel can be used. For low head installations, Francis or propeller-type turbines are used. Very low head installations of only a few meters may use propeller-type turbines in a pit, or water wheels and Archimedes screws. Small micro hydro installations may successfully use industrial centrifugal pumps, run in reverse as prime movers; while the efficiency may not be as high as a purpose-built runner, the relatively low cost makes the projects economically feasible.\n\nIn low-head installations, maintenance and mechanism costs can be relatively high. A low-head system moves larger amounts of water, and is more likely to encounter surface debris. For this reason a Banki turbine also called Ossberger turbine, a pressurized self-cleaning crossflow waterwheel, is often preferred for low-head micro hydro systems. Though less efficient, its simpler structure is less expensive than other low-head turbines of the same capacity. Since the water flows in, then out of it, it cleans itself and is less prone to jam with debris.\n\n\nMicrohydro systems are very flexible and can be deployed in a number of different environments. They are dependent on how much water flow the source (creek, river, stream) has and the velocity of the flow of water. Energy can be stored in battery banks at sites that are far from a facility or used in addition to a system that is directly connected so that in times of high demand there is additional reserve energy available. These systems can be designed to minimize community and environmental impact regularly caused by large dams or other mass hydroelectric generation sites.\n\nIn relation to rural development, the simplicity and low relative cost of micro hydro systems open up new opportunities for some isolated communities in need of electricity. With only a small stream needed, remote areas can access lighting and communications for homes, medical clinics, schools, and other facilities. Microhydro can even run a certain level of machinery supporting small businesses. Regions along the Andes mountains and in Sri Lanka and China already have similar, active programs. One seemingly unexpected use of such systems in some areas is to keep young community members from moving into more urban regions in order to spur economic growth. Also, as the possibility of financial incentives for less carbon intensive processes grows, the future of microhydro systems may become more appealing.\n\nMicro-hydro installations can also provide multiple uses. For instance, micro-hydro projects in rural Asia have incorporated agro-processing facilities such as rice mills alongside standard electrification into the project design.\n\nThe cost of a micro hydro plant can be between 1,000 and 20,000 U.S. dollars\n\nMicrohydro power is generated through a process that utilizes the natural flow of water. This power is most commonly converted into electricity. With no direct emissions resulting from this conversion process, there are little to no harmful effects on the environment, if planned well, thus supplying power from a renewable source and in a sustainable manner. Microhydro is considered a \"run-of-river\" system meaning that water diverted from the stream or river is redirected back into the same watercourse. Adding to the potential economic benefits of microhydro is efficiency, reliability, and cost effectiveness.\n\nMicrohydro systems are limited mainly by characteristics of the site. The most direct limitation comes from small sources with minuscule flow. Likewise, flow can fluctuate seasonally in some areas. Lastly, though perhaps the foremost disadvantage is the distance from the power source to the site in need of energy. This distributional issue as well as the others are key when considering using a microhydro system.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16465909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16465909", "title": "Mogens Glistrup", "text": "Mogens Glistrup\n\nMogens Glistrup (28 May 1926 – 1 July 2008) was a Danish politician, lawyer and tax protester. He founded the Progress Party, and was a member of the Folketing (1973–1983 and 1987–1990). He had his parliamentary immunity revoked a total of six times due to criminal convictions for tax fraud and racism.\n\nFrom 1956 to 1963 Glistrup was an associate professor in tax law at the University of Copenhagen, and after leaving the university he became the owner of one of Denmark's leading law firms. On national television in 1971 on the last day for sending in the tax return, he praised tax fraudsters as the \"freedom fighters of our time,\" and he displayed his own tax card with a tax rate of zero. His television appearance triggered an outrage, and Finance Minister Poul Møller made a complaint to Danmarks Radio, stating that they should rather have presented factual information on filling out the tax return. The government proceeded to have police and tax authorities begin an investigation into Glistrup's finances.\n\nOn 22 August 1972, Glistrup founded the Progress Party, and in the landslide election of 1973 the party gained 28 seats of 179, making it the second-largest in parliament.\n\nGlistrup described the income tax as a remnant of the stagnant agrarian society of the past, and wanted the income tax removed over a period of seven years by gradually increasing the tax threshold. He had a unique sense of humour, the most famous example of which was his suggestion to replace the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with an answering machine saying in Russian that Denmark surrenders.\n\nThe investigation of Glistrup's economic conditions dragged on but resulted in 1983 in Glistrup being sentenced by the supreme court to three years in prison and a fine of DKK 1,000,000 and the parliament finding him unfit to be a member. The case against him was complicated and involved an extensive web of companies that only transferred money to each other. The prosecuting authority described this web of companies as fiction, to which Glistrup responded that the only fiction involved was the \"fiction theory\" of the prosecuting authority.\n\nAfter serving the sentence, Glistrup was reelected to parliament in 1987, but he did not manage to regain his political influence on the party from Pia Kjærsgaard, and he was expelled from the party in 1991. He was readmitted to the party in 1999 and in response the entire parliamentary group left in protest against racist and anti-Muslim statements made by Glistrup, and formed a new parliamentary group called Freedom 2000.\n\nHe died on 1 July 2008, aged 82.\n\n"}
{"id": "3310155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3310155", "title": "National Civic Federation", "text": "National Civic Federation\n\nThe National Civic Federation (NCF) was an American economic organization founded in 1900 which brought together chosen representatives of big business and organized labor, as well as consumer advocates in an attempt to ameliorate labor disputes. It favored moderate progressive reform and sought to resolve disputes arising between industry and organized labor.\n\nOne of the earliest forerunners of the National Civic Federation was the Chicago Civic Federation (CCF), which was also known as the Civic Federation of Chicago, established in 1893.\n\nRalph M. Easley, the CCF's gregarious head who wanted the NCF to \"serve as a medium of sympathy and acquaintance between persons and societies who pursue various and differing vocations and objects, who differ in nationality, creed, and surrounding [and] who are unknown to each other.\" This federation of civic and reform leaders community took as its primary goal \"to focus the new ideals of civic cooperation and social efficiency on the task of renovating Chicago society.\"\n\nEasley was thrust into the public spotlight in 1899 when the CCF held a conference in Chicago on problems presented by the various monopolistic Trusts which dominated most of the key sections of the American economy. This gathering was met by widespread acclaim in the press and provided the gravitas necessary for a larger organization drawing in the participation of top economic leaders from around the country.\n\nIn June 1900 Easley reestablished his civic federation idea on a broader basis with the formation of the National Civic Federation (NCF). The organization drew its membership in equal parts from the camps of business, labor, and members of the unaffiliated public. Easley would serve as chairman of the NCF’s executive council throughout the federation’s forty-five-year history.\n\nEasley, a former teacher and journalist, was himself a staunch supporter of the Republican Party and conservative who sought social peace and the preservation of the current social system through cooperation between the various social classes. Easley believed that such collaboration between the leaders of industry and labor was necessary to mitigate potential dangers associated with a continuation and expansion of the class struggle between these social groups.\n\nThe NCF's work was conducted through special subcommittees and in national conferences. The group also produced publications, authored draft legislation, and engaged in lobbying of government officials.\n\nEarly activists included U.S. Treasury Secretary Lyman Gage, the CCF’s two-time president; social worker Jane Addams; and social scientist and civic commissioner Edward Bemis. The federation's first president was wealthy businessman-turned-United States Senator Mark Hanna, while its original vice-president was American Federation of Labor leader Samuel Gompers.\n\nOther NCF founding members from trade unions included Daniel Keefe (International Longshoremen's Association), John Mitchell (United Mine Workers) and J. J. Sullivan (Typographers). Over the years, the federation's Executive Council included representatives of employers such as Vincent Astor, Jeremiah Jenks, Seth Low, and George W. Perkins.\n\nFrom the outset the NCF was dominated by the leaders of big business. In addition to Mark Hanna, leading roles were played by utilities magnates Samuel Insull and George B. Cortelyou, banker Franklin MacVeagh, and industrialist Andrew Carnegie. By 1903 nearly one-third of the 367 American corporations with a capitalization of more than $10 million were represented in the NCF, as were 16 of the 67 biggest railroads in the country. \n\nDuring its first years of existence the NCF mediated several labor disputes and helped to broker agreements between capital and labor. The organization became active behind the scenes in a major strike of the coal industry in 1902, attempting to bring together coal operators and unionized miners to forge a solution to the work stoppage. Employers backing the NCF's approach to the labor problem envisioned a mutually beneficial social peace springing from collective bargaining — a position sharply criticized by other employers organized in the National Association of Manufacturers, which sought a crushing of trade unions and the establishment of an open shop in American industry.\n\nThe National Civic Federation was instrumental in expanding and helping make uniform state laws regarding child labor, workmen's compensation, and factory safety.\n\nThe NCF is credited with the passage in 1913 of the Newlands Act for mediation of railroad disputes. The group also helped pave the way for the Federal Trade Commission Act of 1914.\n\nWith the coming of war in Europe and a drive for the armament of America under the slogan of \"Preparedness,\" the National Civic Federation began to take on the character of a patriotic organization, agitating against pacifists, socialists, and sundry others characterized in the words of Theodore Roosevelt as \"undesirable citizens.\"\n\nThe death of Gompers in 1924 largely ended its relationship to the labor movement, and business leaders, too, withdrew their financial backing. Easley was consumed by anti-communism, and in the 1930s attacked Franklin Delano Roosevelt and the New Deal. Plagued by financial difficulties, hobbled by Easley's anti-Communism and pushed aside by a rising national consensus in favor of liberalism, the NCF — nearly bankrupt —shut down operations in 1950.\n\nThe NCF's approach of bringing representatives of business and the labor movement together for negotiations drew criticism both from the anti-union conservatives of the National Association of Manufacturers, who opposed acknowledgement of any right of collective bargaining, as well as from socialists and syndicalists on the left, who saw in the NCF a concrete example of class collaborationism which would dull the desire of the masses for radical change.\n\nOne of the rivals to Samuel Gompers' American Federation of Labor (AFL) was the Western Federation of Miners (WFM). Formed on the western frontier of the United States, the WFM was \"not yet 'broken in' to the discipline of business management\" practiced by eastern labor leaders. The WFM formed the Western Labor Union (WLU) as a rival to the AFL, because the miners feared that the AFL wanted to crush the anti-capitalist spirit of their organization. Fred W. Thompson and Patrick Murfin have written that the miners saw the purpose of the NCF as,\n...to housebreak unionism, to confine its growth to those fields where management could use it, and to emasculate it by a united front of labor leaders and captains of industry against all socialistic and insurgent elements.\nAccording to this view, the NCF stood for \"responsible unionism,\" in which union members were expected to follow the dictates of conservative union leaders whom Mark Hanna referred to as \"the labor lieutenants of the captains of industry.\" Fully aware that lieutenants take orders from captains, more militant union leaders saw Gompers' participation in the NCF as a \"sellout.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20379306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20379306", "title": "Neighbourhood effect", "text": "Neighbourhood effect\n\nThe neighbourhood effect is an economic and social science concept that posits that neighbourhoods have either a direct or indirect effect on individual behaviors. Although the effect of the neighbourhood was already known and studied at the beginning of the 20th century and as early as the mid 19th century, it has become a popular approach after the publication of the book \"The Truly Disadvantaged\" by William Julius Wilson in 1987. Wilson's theory suggests that living in a neighbourhood seriously affected by poverty affects a wide range of individual outcomes, such as economic self-sufficiency, violence, drug use, low birthweight, and cognitive ability.\n\nIn more recent years neighbourhood effects have been also studied in epidemiology and psychology. For example, Murray and colleagues have shown that older workers living in areas with higher unemployment are less likely to be in work ten years later.\n\nSome research has shown that the living conditions of the neighbourhood interact with individual's negative life events. The same event is more likely to trigger depression in disadvantaged neighbourhoods than in neighbourhoods with a good quality of life. This hypothesis is supported by Catherine Ross who shows that socially disordered neighborhoods are associated with depressive symptoms. Gonzalez and colleagues argue that restricted social environments, such as family, interact with a wider definition of the environment, namely the neighbourhood and the community, fostering the perception about future living conditions.\n\nIn political science the neighbourhood effect defines the tendency of a person to vote in a certain direction based upon the relational effects of the people living in the neighbourhood. The voting preference of a neighbourhood tends to be formed by consensus, where people tend to vote with the general trend of the neighbourhood. This consensus is formed by the personal connections a person forms in a community. There also seems to be some socio-economic correlation to voting patterns, and this has also been used to predict voting behavior.\n\nThe term was coined in the seminal works of Kevin Cox in 'The Voting Decision in a Spatial Context' and later popularized by Ron J. Johnston in 'Political Geography' (1979) and Peter J. Taylor and G. Gudgin in 'Geography of Elections' (1979) It seems, at the time at least, that they were attempting to justify the use of mathematical modelling in the study of voting patterns and the correlations between spatial data. Both seem to have made a case that studying this is only possible with good quantitative data and an understanding of how people in these small spatial areas live, work, and think.\n\nW.L. Miller, however, began work on quantifying the neighbourhood effect in 1977. In his work 'Electoral Dynamics' (1977) he formed the hypothesis that \"people who talk together vote together\" and began trying to quantify this controversial idea. He found that majority positions are more dominant than the socio-economic statistics of individuals in the area would suggest. He suggested four models by which voting patterns may be explained:\n\n1) The \"no environmental effect\" model, which postulates no differences in voting behaviour by neighbourhood type – contacts with neighbours have no influence on how people vote.\n\n2) The \"environmental effect model\", which suggests that 'people may be irritated, alarmed and antagonized by contact with those unlike themselves' and become even stronger supporters of their 'class party' than might otherwise be the case – middle-class people are more pro-Conservative in working-class than middle-class areas, for example, and working-class people are less pro-Conservative in strongly middle-class areas.\n\n3) The \"consensual environmental effect\" model, which argues that 'people will be influenced towards agreement with their contacts', so that, for example, 'both middle- and working-class individuals are more Conservative in middle-class areas because both sets of individuals have fewer working-class contacts and more middle-class contacts than if they lived elsewhere' – which is what most writers associate with the neighbourhood effect.\n\n4) The \"Przeworski environmental effect\" model, which suggests that the two classes operate in different ways – the middle class operate according to the reactive model in working-class areas, whereas the working class operate according to the consensual model in middle-class areas.\n\nJohnston makes easier to understand social parallels that can be better understood by the layman. He explains these models as (1) I talk with them and vote as they do; (2) I want to be like them so I live with them; (3) I live among them and want to be like them; (4) what I observe around me makes me vote with them; and (5) they want me to vote for them here.\n\nCox, in a similar attempt to understand the neighbourhood effect, attempted to define how people interact. He found that there was an inverse relationship between the distance and the formation of a relationship. This seems pretty straightforward and is easily applied to one's life. He also found that the relationships that people form typically have some sort of politically partisan undertones that people take in. He also found that these relationships have more of an effect on a person's political leanings than the person's prior predispositions. This is counter-intuitive because many have argued that a person will inherit their political leanings from their family.\n\nCurtice argued against the social interaction model in 'Is Talking over the Garden Fence of Political Import?' Curtice argued, from his data set, that the influence on voting patterns by social interactions is of such small consequence as to be nearly negligible in explaining the neighbourhood effect.\n\nThe first group that attempted to find an empirical link between social interaction and voting patterns was R. Huckfeldt and J. Sprague. They did a survey of people in Indianapolis and St. Louis to find who people are and whom they talk to about politics. The group also interviewed the people that the respondents identified as those they would be most likely to talk to about politics. They definitively found that people do vote in similar ways to those that they interacted with. This data finally gave some backing to Miller's idea that \"people who talk together vote together.\" All of these experiments seem to lend some credence to the models that Cox theorized and Miller formed.\n\nThe neighborhood effect has broadened the study of the voter from the individual level of analysis to account for the effect of where one lives on their voting decisions. This contribution to contextual analysis has broadened the study of voter behavior.\n\n"}
{"id": "662900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=662900", "title": "Nonperson", "text": "Nonperson\n\nA nonperson is a citizen or a member of a group who lacks, loses, or is forcibly denied social or legal status, especially basic human rights, or who effectively ceases to have a record of their existence within a society (\"damnatio memoriae\"), from a point of view of traceability, documentation, or existence. The term also refers to people whose death is unverifiable and about which inquiries result in a \"blank wall\" of \"nobody knows that\".\n\nSome common ways in which people become nonpersons are: \n\nAsserting that someone is a nonperson is implicitly a normative statement; by doing so, it is implied simultaneously that the person referred to is entitled to the rights that any person \"should\" have. Who is a person and what every person is entitled to depends on context and social norms. For example, wards that are under the authority of a legal guardian due to infancy, incapacity, or disability are not usually considered nonpersons.\n\nThere are many possible meanings associated with the term \"nonperson\".\n\nIn Nazi extermination camps, Jewish people and Romani were treated as nonpersons. The purpose of these camps was to systematically dehumanise these unwanted elements, use them where possible, and dispose of them efficiently. \"Nonperson\" status was required because it removed the moral and social obstacles for committing otherwise objectionable acts of violence, crime, abuse, and murder.\n\nSome people are covertly held by governments or other bodies, and effectively cease to exist. This has happened under Pinochet. It was also the guiding strategy behind the Nazi government's \"Nacht und Nebel (Night & Fog)\" policy in Western Europe. To dodge pointed questions regarding supposedly democratically controlled governments covertly holding people or employing torture, plausible deniability of knowledge might be used. The existence of ghost detainees in a secret CIA prison system is an example of this.\n\nTo an extent, this is made both easier and harder by technology – easier because reliance upon technology is such that if a person's information is electronically deleted or was never stored in that manner they effectively cease to exist; harder because during every stage of a person's life from birth to death the accumulation of bureaucratic transactions makes it more and more likely that they will leave an official record somewhere.\n\nA person that does not appear on any official documents, is economically or socially inactive, or lives outside of what is defined as the \"productive system\" or \"organized society\" could be classified as a nonperson. This is often the case of homeless and marginalized people in general. Another example has been the group of The Erased in Slovenia, about 25,000 people, who lost their legal status and therefore all social, civil, and political rights after Slovenia declared its independence in 1991, because they did not register themselves in due time as \"foreigners\".\n\nAlso, some legally detained prisoners can be considered to be in a quasi-nonperson status, temporarily or indefinitely, to different extents depending on the reasons for and conditions of their detention. For example, in most countries, ordinary prisoners are denied political rights such as voting; in the most severe cases, total or partial isolation from the outside world can be inflicted.\n\nA \"nonperson\" status can also be consciously or unconsciously applied to unwanted persons (demonization) by their surrounding society. This can be extended and applied to an entire nation or ethnic group, as often happens in wars or other conflicts.\n\nThis was the situation in the Nazi state with regard to Jews, and in most societies with regard to gypsies, and it is often applied in times of war to the entire enemy nation; its people are stripped of their \"person status\" and demonized, making them appear to be sub-human (not humans), and thus indirectly rationalizing any excess or abuse committed against them. Similar cases, concerning contra-revolutionaries, are found in most socialist states. \n\nIt can be argued that the \"nonperson\" status, apart from the German deathcamps, can be found in its most literal form when considering certain prisoners of war, especially if they are or are considered to be illegal combatants.\n\n"}
{"id": "20673141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20673141", "title": "Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights", "text": "Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights\n\nThe Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights is an international treaty establishing complaint and inquiry mechanisms for the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. It was adopted by the UN General Assembly on 10 December 2008, and opened for signature on 24 September 2009. As of October 2018, the Protocol has 45 signatories and 24 state parties. It entered into force on 5 May 2013.\n\nIn 1966, the United Nations General Assembly adopted the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. The Covenant obliged its parties to recognise and progressively implement economic, social, and cultural rights, including labour rights and right to health, right to education, and right to an adequate standard of living, but did not include any mechanism by which these obligations could be legally enforced.\n\nWork on an individual complaints mechanism began in 1990, with a view to developing an Optional Protocol similar to those of other UN human rights instruments. Development was encouraged by the 1993 World Conference on Human Rights, which recommended the Commission on Human Rights and CESCR to \"continue examination of optional protocols\" to the ICESCR.\n\nCESCR presented the first draft Optional Protocol in 1997. In 2002, the Committee established an open-ended working group to continue development. In 2006, the Human Rights Council gave the open-ended working group the task of formally negotiating a draft text. Negotiations were completed in April 2008, and the resulting Optional Protocol was formally adopted by the UN General Assembly on 10 December 2008. It was opened for signature on 24 September 2009.\n\nThe Optional Protocol establishes an individual complaints mechanism for the Covenant similar to those of the First Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and Article 14 of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination. Parties agree to recognise the competence of the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights to consider complaints from individuals or groups who claim their rights under the Covenant have been violated. Complainants must have exhausted all domestic remedies, and anonymous complaints and complaints referring to events which occurred before the country concerned joined the Optional Protocol are not permitted. The Committee can request information from and make recommendations to a party. Parties may also opt to permit the Committee to hear complaints from other parties, rather than just individuals.\n\nThe Protocol also includes an inquiry mechanism. Parties may permit the Committee to investigate, report on and make recommendations on \"grave or systematic violations\" of the Covenant. Parties may opt out of this obligation on signature or ratification.\n\nThe Optional Protocol required ten ratifications to come into force.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "857523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=857523", "title": "Patrons of Industry in Manitoba", "text": "Patrons of Industry in Manitoba\n\nThe Patrons of Industry in Manitoba was an extension of a farmers' organization operating in Ontario (see Patrons of Industry) and the United States in the 1880s and 1890s. The Patrons lobbied extensively and became politically active, running provincial and federal candidates.\n\nThe Manitoba Patrons, as a fraternal organization, was initially focused on coordinating an agrarian cooperative movement on the Prairies.\n\nIts first lodges in Manitoba and the North-West Territories began in 1890, with a \"grand lodge\" (central body) established in 1891. At first the group was known as the \"Patrons of Manitoba and the North-West\" - its conventions included delegates from Manitoba and the territorial districts of Assiniboia, Saskatchewan and Alberta. The organization's leader was Charles Braithwaite, who was chosen at a convention held in November 1891.\n\nThrough direct bulk buying in competition with established stores, the movement brought down the price of farm supplies (binder twine) and other farmers' needs, and through strong lobbying it helped achieve a cut in tariffs on imported goods important to farmers.\n\nThe Manitoba group turned to direct political action in 1894. Following a tour of Manitoba by Braithwaite (who was a spellbinding orator), the Patrons nominated candidates in all but two of the province's constituencies, in anticipation of the next provincial election.\n\nThe Patrons were the first \"third party\" to emerge in Manitoba after partisan government was formally introduced to the province in 1888. They opposed both Conservatives and Liberals and were for a time affiliated with Dalton McCarthy, a dissident federal Conservative.\n\nOn August 23, 1894, the Patrons proved they were a significant force in Manitoba politics when their candidate John Forsyth defeated Conservative leader John Andrew Davidson in a two-sided Beautiful Plains by-election (there was no Liberal candidate in the race). Forsyth was expelled from the Patrons in 1895 for using a railway pass (given free to legislators) in violation of party policy.\n\nThe party became internally divided over the Manitoba Schools Question. Many Catholic Patrons were alienated by the party's support of Liberal Premier Thomas Greenway's efforts to eliminate denominational schools, and left the party.\n\nThe Patrons ran seven candidates in the provincial election of 1896, and two of them were elected: Watson Crosby in Dennis and William Sirett in Beautiful Plains.\n\nThe Patrons ran candidates in two Manitoba provincial by-elections in 1896 who were not successful. (On the other hand, Matt McCauley was elected with official Patron backing in Edmonton (Alberta) in the 1896 North-West Assembly election.) \n\nThree Manitoba Patrons (Braithwaite, Crosby and Sirett) ran in the 1896 federal election, but were unsuccessful, finishing third in their ridings.\n\nBraithwaite, who had led the party since 1891, stepped down as party leader in January 1897, and the party effectively ceased to exist after this time. Crosby died in 1897, and Sirett did not run for re-election in 1899.\n\nIn addition to supporting agrarian interests, the Patrons also supported prohibition, universal suffrage (for men and women) and electoral reform. These policies would later re-emerge in the platform of the Progressive Party of Canada and other farmer political parties such as the United Farmers of Manitoba and the United Farmers of Alberta.\n\n"}
{"id": "240018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=240018", "title": "Peter Drucker", "text": "Peter Drucker\n\nPeter Ferdinand Drucker (; ; November 19, 1909 – November 11, 2005) was an Austrian-born American management consultant, educator, and author, whose writings contributed to the philosophical and practical foundations of the modern business corporation. He was also a leader in the development of management education, he invented the concept known as management by objectives and self-control, and he has been described as \"the founder of modern management\".\n\nDrucker's books and scholarly and popular articles explored how humans are organized across the business, government, and nonprofit sectors of society. He is one of the best-known and most widely influential thinkers and writers on the subject of management theory and practice. His writings have predicted many of the major developments of the late twentieth century, including privatization and decentralization; the rise of Japan to economic world power; the decisive importance of marketing; and the emergence of the information society with its necessity of lifelong learning. In 1959, Drucker coined the term \"knowledge worker,\" and later in his life considered knowledge-worker productivity to be the next frontier of management. Drucker gave his name to three institutions: the Drucker Institute and the Peter F. Drucker and Masatoshi Ito Graduate School of Management, both at Claremont Graduate University in the United States, and the Peter F. Drucker Academy, China. The annual Global Peter Drucker Forum, held in his hometown of Vienna, honors his legacy.\n\nDrucker grew up in what he referred to as a \"liberal\" Lutheran Protestant household in Austria-Hungary. His mother Caroline Bondi had studied medicine and his father Adolf Drucker was a lawyer and high-level civil servant. Drucker was born in Vienna, Austria, in a small village named Kaasgraben (now part of the 19th district of Vienna-Döbling). He grew up in a home where intellectuals, high government officials, and scientists would meet to discuss new ideas. These included Joseph Schumpeter, Friedrich Hayek and Ludwig von Mises. Hans Kelsen was his uncle.\n\nAfter graduating from Döbling Gymnasium in 1927, Drucker found few opportunities for employment in post-World War I Vienna, so he moved to Hamburg, Germany, first working as an apprentice at an established cotton trading company, then as a journalist, writing for \"Der Österreichische Volkswirt\" (\"The Austrian Economist\"). Drucker then moved to Frankfurt, where he took a job at the Daily \"Frankfurter General-Anzeiger\". While in Frankfurt, he also earned a doctorate in international law and public law from the Goethe University Frankfurt in 1931.\n\nIn 1933, Drucker left Germany for England. In London, he worked for an insurance company, then as the chief economist at a private bank. He also reconnected with Doris Schmitz, an acquaintance from the University of Frankfurt, and they married in 1934. The couple permanently relocated to the United States, where he became a university professor as well as a freelance writer and business consultant.\n\nIn 1943, Drucker became a naturalized citizen of the United States. He then had a distinguished career as a teacher, first as a professor of politics and philosophy at Bennington College from 1942 to 1949, then twenty-two years at New York University as a Professor of Management from 1950 to 1976.\n\nDrucker went to California in 1971, where he developed one of the country's first executive MBA programs for working professionals at Claremont Graduate University (then known as Claremont Graduate School). From 1971 until his death, he was the Clarke Professor of Social Science and Management at Claremont. Claremont Graduate University's management school was named the Peter F. Drucker Graduate School of Management in his honor in 1987 (later renamed the Peter F. Drucker and Masatoshi Ito Graduate School of Management). He established the Drucker Archives at Claremont Graduate University in 1999; the Archives became the Drucker Institute in 2006. Drucker taught his last class in 2002 at age 92. He continued to act as a consultant to businesses and nonprofit organizations well into his nineties.\n\nDrucker died November 11, 2005 in Claremont, California of natural causes at 95. He had four children and is the grandfather of tech entrepreneur Nova Spivack, one of six grandchildren. Drucker's wife Doris died in October 2014 at the age of 103.\n\nAmong Drucker's early influences was the Austrian economist Joseph Schumpeter, a friend of his father's, who impressed upon Drucker the importance of innovation and entrepreneurship. Drucker was also influenced, in a much different way, by John Maynard Keynes, whom he heard lecture in 1934 in Cambridge. \"I suddenly realized that Keynes and all the brilliant economic students in the room were interested in the behavior of commodities,\" Drucker wrote, \"while I was interested in the behavior of people.\"\n\nOver the next 70 years, Drucker's writings would be marked by a focus on relationships among human beings, as opposed to the crunching of numbers. His books were filled with lessons on how organizations can bring out the best in people, and how workers can find a sense of community and dignity in a modern society organized around large institutions. As a business consultant, Drucker disliked the term \"guru,\" though it was often applied to him; \"I have been saying for many years,\" Drucker once remarked, \"that we are using the word 'guru' only because 'charlatan' is too long to fit into a headline.\"\n\nAs a young writer, Drucker wrote two pieces — one on the conservative German philosopher Friedrich Julius Stahl and another called \"The Jewish Question in Germany\" — that were burned and banned by the Nazis.\n\nDrucker's career as a business thinker took off in 1942, when his initial writings on politics and society won him access to the internal workings of General Motors (GM), one of the largest companies in the world at that time. His experiences in Europe had left him fascinated with the problem of authority. He shared his fascination with Donaldson Brown, the mastermind behind the administrative controls at GM. In 1943 Brown invited him in to conduct what might be called a \"political audit\": a two-year social-scientific analysis of the corporation. Drucker attended every board meeting, interviewed employees, and analyzed production and decision-making processes.\n\nThe resulting book, \"Concept of the Corporation\", popularized GM's multidivisional structure and led to numerous articles, consulting engagements, and additional books. GM, however, was hardly thrilled with the final product. Drucker had suggested that the auto giant might want to re-examine a host of long-standing policies on customer relations, dealer relations, employee relations and more. Inside the corporation, Drucker's counsel was viewed as hypercritical. GM's revered chairman, Alfred Sloan, was so upset about the book that he \"simply treated it as if it did not exist,\" Drucker later recalled, \"never mentioning it and never allowing it to be mentioned in his presence.\"\n\nDrucker taught that management is \"a liberal art,\" and he infused his management advice with interdisciplinary lessons from history, sociology, psychology, philosophy, culture and religion. He also believed strongly that all institutions, including those in the private sector, have a responsibility to the whole of society. \"The fact is,\" Drucker wrote in his 1973 \"Management: Tasks, Responsibilities, Practices\", \"that in modern society there is no other leadership group but managers. If the managers of our major institutions, and especially of business, do not take responsibility for the common good, no one else can or will.\"\n\nDrucker was interested in the growing effect of people who worked with their minds rather than their hands. He was intrigued by employees who knew more about certain subjects than their bosses or colleagues, and yet had to cooperate with others in a large organization. Rather than simply glorify the phenomenon as the epitome of human progress, Drucker analyzed it, and explained how it challenged the common thinking about how organizations should be run.\n\nHis approach worked well in the increasingly mature business world of the second half of the twentieth century. By that time large corporations had developed the basic manufacturing efficiencies and managerial hierarchies of mass production. Executives thought they knew how to run companies, and Drucker took it upon himself to poke holes in their beliefs, lest organizations become stale. But he did so in a sympathetic way. He assumed that his readers were intelligent, rational, hardworking people of good will. If their organizations struggled, he believed it was usually because of outdated ideas, a narrow conception of problems, or internal misunderstandings.\n\nDrucker developed an extensive consulting business built around his personal relationship with top management. He became legendary among many of post-war Japan's new business leaders trying to rebuild their war-torn homeland. He advised the heads of General Motors, Sears, General Electric, W.R. Grace and IBM, among many others. Over time he offered his management advice to nonprofits like the American Red Cross and the Salvation Army. His advice was eagerly sought by the senior executives of the Adela Investment Company, a private initiative of the world's multinational corporations to promote investment in the developing countries of Latin America.\n\nDrucker's 39 books have been translated into more than thirty-six languages. Two are novels, one an autobiography. He is the co-author of a book on Japanese painting, and made eight series of educational films on management topics. He also penned a regular column in the \"Wall Street Journal\" for 10 years and contributed frequently to the \"Harvard Business Review\", \"The Atlantic Monthly\", and \"The Economist\".\n\nHis work is especially popular in Japan, even more so after the publication of \"What If the Female Manager of a High-School Baseball Team Read Drucker's \"Management\"\", a novel that features the main character using one of his books to great effect, which was also adapted into an anime and a live action film. His popularity in Japan may be compared with that of his contemporary W. Edwards Deming. Researcher Ross M. Brown credits Peter Drucker and Ferrel Heady in the late 1980's with the initial development of his groundbreaking New Religion theory that suggests that ciguatera outbreaks caused by warm climatic conditions in part propelled the migratory voyages of Polynesians via distinct \"public\" management and administration efforts between 1000 and 1400AD.\n\nPeter Drucker also wrote a book in 2001 called \"The Essential Drucker\". It is the first volume and combination of the past sixty years of Peter Drucker's work on management. The information gathered is a collection from his previous findings, The Practice of Management (1954) to Management Challenges for the 21st Century (1999), this book offers, in Drucker's words, \"a coherent and fairly comprehensive introduction to management\". He also answers frequently asked questions from up and coming entrepreneurs who tend to ponder the questionable outcomes of management.\n\nDrucker is considered the single most important thought leader in the world of management, and several ideas run through most of his writings:\n\n\"The Wall Street Journal\" researched several of his lectures in 1987 and reported that he was sometimes loose with the facts. Drucker was off the mark, for example, when he told an audience that the English language was the official language for all employees at Japan's Mitsui trading company. Drucker defended himself: \"I use anecdotes to make a point, not to write history.\"\n\nAlso, while Drucker was known for his prescience, he was not always correct in his forecasts. He predicted, for instance, that the nation's financial center would shift from New York to Washington.\n\nOthers maintain that one of Drucker's core concepts,\" management by objectives,\" is flawed and has never really been proven to work effectively. Critic Dale Krueger said that the system is difficult to implement and that companies often wind up overemphasizing control, as opposed to fostering creativity, to meet their goals.\n\nDrucker's classic work, \"Concept of the Corporation\", criticized General Motors while it was considered the most successful corporation in the world. Many of GM's executives considered Drucker persona non grata for a long time afterward. Although Alfred P. Sloan refrained from personal hostility toward Drucker, he considered Drucker's critiques of GM's management to be \"dead wrong.\"\n\nDrucker was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom by US President George W. Bush on July 9, 2002. He also received honors from the governments of Austria, including the Grand Silver Medal for Services to the Republic of Austria in 1974, the Grand Gold Decoration for Services to the Republic of Austria in 1991 and the Austrian Cross of Honour for Science and Art, 1st class in 1999 and Japan (Order of the Sacred Treasure, 3rd class; 24 June 1966).\n\nDrucker was the Honorary Chairman of the \"Peter F. Drucker Foundation for Nonprofit Management\", now the \"Leader to Leader Institute\", from 1990 through 2002. In 1969 he was awarded New York University's highest honor, its Presidential Citation. For his article, \"What Makes an Effective Executive\", \"Harvard Business Review\" honored Drucker in the June 2004 with his seventh McKinsey Award — the most awarded to one person. Drucker was inducted into the Junior Achievement US Business Hall of Fame in 1996. He received 25 honorary doctorates from American, Belgian, Czech, English, Spanish and Swiss universities. His 1954 book \"The Practice of Management\" was voted the third most influential management book of the 20th century in a poll of the Fellows of the Academy of Management. In Claremont, California, Eleventh Street between College Avenue and Dartmouth Avenue was renamed \"Drucker Way\" in October 2009 to commemorate the 100th anniversary of Drucker's birth.\nDrucker was posthumously honored when he was inducted into the Outsourcing Hall of Fame in recognition of his outstanding contributions in the field. In 2018, Drucker was named the world's most influential business thinker on the Thinkers50.com list.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1128897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1128897", "title": "Provisional ballot", "text": "Provisional ballot\n\nIn elections in the United States, a provisional ballot is used to record a vote when there are questions about a given voter's eligibility that must be resolved before the vote can count. The federal Help America Vote Act of 2002 guarantees that, in most states, the voter can cast a provisional ballot if the voter states that he or she is entitled to vote.\n\nSome of the most common reasons to cast a provisional ballot include:\n\n\nWhether a provisional ballot is counted is contingent upon the verification of that voter's eligibility, which may involve local election officials reviewing government records or asking the voter for more information, such as a photo identification not presented at the polling place or proof of residence. Each state may set its own timing rules for when these issues must be resolved. Provisional ballots therefore cannot usually be counted until after the day of the election.\n\nThe right of political parties to have observers at polling places is long-standing. One of the established roles for such observers is to act as challengers, in the event that someone attempts to vote at the polling place who is not eligible to vote.\n\nBefore the implementation of provisional ballots, some state laws allowed a voter whose eligibility was challenged to cast a \"challenged ballot\". After the polls closed, the canvassing board was then charged with examining the challenged ballots and determining whether the challenge was to be upheld or not.\n\nThe Help America Vote Act brings a degree of uniformity to the array of various challenged ballot rules enacted by various states. For example, each state must provide a means for the voter to find out whether his or her ballot was counted, though the states may use different ways of doing so (such as a website or a phone number).\n\nThough the Act mandates the use of provisional ballots nationwide, it exempted the six states that had been exempted from the National Voter Registration Act of 1993 because those states had and continue to have either \"same-day\" voter registration or no registration requirement at all: Idaho, Minnesota, New Hampshire, North Dakota, Wisconsin, and Wyoming. However, those states may choose to use provisional ballots. , North Dakota, Wisconsin, and Wyoming used them for some purposes, while the other three did not have provisional ballots at all.\n\nIn the 2018 midterm elections, both valid and invalid provisional ballots were mixed together in Florida after the initial vote count, which provided no way to be separated for the recount. \n\nComputer scientist and election official Douglas W. Jones has criticized the offer of a provisional ballot as \"a way to brush off troublesome voters by letting them think they have voted.\" He expressed the concern that, under some states' laws, casting a provisional ballot at the wrong precinct would disenfranchise voters who could have cast valid ballots had they been redirected to the proper precinct.\n\nAccording to the Election Assistance Commission thousands of provisional ballots are not counted each election.\n\nThe 2004 US Presidential Election was the first presidential election conducted under the Help America Vote Act's provisions. Nationwide, at least 1.9 million provisional ballots were cast, and 676,000 were never counted due to various states' rules on counting provisional ballots.\n\nStudies of the use of provisional ballots in the 2006 general election in the United States show that around 21% of provisional ballots were rejected. About 44% of these were cast by voters who were not registered, but many other rejections were for reasons that were \"preventable,\" such as an incorrect precinct or missing signature.\n\nThe rates of rejection vary widely across the states, with some states counting all or nearly all provisional ballots while others reject more than half.\n\n"}
{"id": "1327762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1327762", "title": "Real estate economics", "text": "Real estate economics\n\nReal estate economics is the application of economic techniques to real estate markets. It tries to describe, explain, and predict patterns of prices, supply, and demand. The closely related field of housing economics is narrower in scope, concentrating on residential real estate markets, while the research of real estate trends focuses on the business and structural changes affecting the industry. Both draw on partial equilibrium analysis (supply and demand), urban economics, spatial economics, basic and extensive research, surveys, and finance.\n\nThe main participants in real estate markets are:\n\nThe owner/user, owner, and renter form the demand side of the market, while the developers and renovators form the supply side. In order to apply simple supply and demand analysis to real estate markets, a number of modifications need to be made to standard microeconomic assumptions and procedures. In particular, the unique characteristics of the real estate market must be accommodated. These characteristics include:\n\nThe main determinants of the demand for housing are demographic. But other factors, like income, price of housing, cost and availability of credit, consumer preferences, investor preferences, price of substitutes, and price of complements, all play a role.\n\nThe core demographic variables are population size and population growth: the more people in the economy, the greater the demand for housing. But this is an oversimplification. It is necessary to consider family size, the age composition of the family, the number of first and second children, net migration (immigration minus emigration), non-family household formation, the number of double-family households, death rates, divorce rates, and marriages. In housing economics, the elemental unit of analysis is not the individual, as it is in standard partial equilibrium models. Rather, it is households, which demand housing services: typically one household per house. The size and demographic composition of households is variable and not entirely exogenous. It is endogenous to the housing market in the sense that as the price of housing services increase, household size will tend also to increase.\n\nIncome is also an important determinant. Empirical measures of the income elasticity of demand in North America range from 0.5 to 0.9 (De Leeuw 1971). If permanent income elasticity is measured, the results are slightly higher (Kain and Quigley 1975) because transitory income varies from year to year and across individuals, so positive transitory income will tend to cancel out negative transitory income. Many housing economists use permanent income rather than annual income because of the high cost of purchasing real estate. For many people, real estate will be the costliest item they will ever buy.\n\nThe price of housing is also an important factor. The price elasticity of the demand for housing services in North America is estimated as negative 0.7 by Polinsky and Ellwood (1979), and as negative 0.9 by Maisel, Burnham, and Austin (1971).\n\nAn individual household's housing demand can be modeled with standard utility/choice theory. A utility function, such as U=U(X1,X2,X3,X4...Xn), can be constructed, in which the household's utility is a function of various goods and services (Xs). This will be subject to a budget constraint such as P1X1+P2X2+...PnXn=Y, where Y is the household's available income and the Ps are the prices for the various goods and services. The equality indicates that the money spent on all the goods and services must be equal to the available income. Because this is unrealistic, the model must be adjusted to allow for borrowing and saving. A measure of wealth, lifetime income, or permanent income is required. The model must also be adjusted to account for the heterogeneity of real estate. This can be done by deconstructing the utility function. If housing services (X4) are separated into its constituent components (Z1,Z2,Z3,Z4...Zn), the utility function can be rewritten as U=U(X1,X2,X3,(Z1,Z2,Z3,Z4...Zn)...Xn). By varying the price of housing services (X4) and solving for points of optimal utility, the household's demand schedule for housing services can be constructed. Market demand is calculated by summing all individual household demands.\n\nHousing supply is produced using land, labor, and various inputs, such as electricity and building materials. The quantity of new supply is determined by the cost of these inputs, the price of the existing stock of houses, and the technology of production. For a typical single-family dwelling in suburban North America, approximate cost percentages can be broken down as follows: acquisition costs, 10%; site improvement costs, 11%; labour costs, 26%; materials costs, 31%; finance costs, 3%; administrative costs, 15%; and marketing costs, 4%. Multi-unit residential dwellings typically break down as follows: acquisition costs, 7%; site improvement costs, 8%; labour costs, 27%; materials costs, 33%; finance costs, 3%; administrative costs, 17%; and marketing costs, 5%. Public subdivision requirements can increase development costs by up to 3% depending on the jurisdiction. Differences in building codes account for about a 2% variation in development costs. However, these subdivision and building code costs typically increase the market value of the buildings by at least the amount of their cost outlays. A production function such as \"Q\"=\"f\"(\"L\",\"N\",\"M\") can be constructed in which \"Q\" is the quantity of houses produced, \"N\" is the amount of labour employed, \"L\" is the amount of land used, and \"M\" is the amount of other materials. This production function must, however, be adjusted to account for the refurbishing and augmentation of existing buildings. To do this, a second production function is constructed that includes the stock of existing housing and their ages as determinants. The two functions are summed, yielding the total production function. Alternatively, a hedonic pricing model can be regressed.\n\nThe long-run price elasticity of supply is quite high. George Fallis (1985) estimates it as 8.2, but in the short run, supply tends to be very price inelastic. Supply price elasticity depends on the elasticity of substitution and supply restrictions. There is significant substitutability, both between land and materials and between labour and materials. In high-value locations, multi-story concrete buildings are typically built to reduce the amount of expensive land used. As labour costs have increased since the 1950s, new materials and capital-intensive techniques have been employed to reduce the amount of labour used. However, supply restrictions can significantly affect substitutability. In particular, the lack of supply of skilled labour (and labour union requirements) can constrain the substitution from capital to labour. Land availability can also constrain substitutability if the area of interest is delineated (i.e., the larger the area, the more suppliers of land, and the more substitution that is possible). Land-use controls such as zoning bylaws can also reduce land substitutability.\n\nThe basic adjustment mechanism is a stock/flow model to reflect the fact that about 98% the market is existing stock and about 2% is the flow of new buildings.\n\nIn the adjacent diagram, the stock of housing supply is presented in the left panel while the new flow is in the right panel. There are four steps in the basic adjustment mechanism. First, the initial equilibrium price (Ro) is determined by the intersection of the supply of existing housing stock (SH) and the demand for housing (D). This rent is then translated into value (Vo) via discounting cash flows. Value is calculated by dividing current period rents by the discount rate, that is, as a perpetuity. Then value is compared to construction costs (CC) in order to determine whether profitable opportunities exist for developers. The intersection of construction costs and the value of housing services determine the maximum level of new housing starts (HSo). Finally the amount of housing starts in the current period is added to the available stock of housing in the next period. In the next period, supply curve SH will shift to the right by amount HSo.\n\nThe diagram to the right shows the effects of depreciation. If the supply of existing housing deteriorates due to wear, then the stock of housing supply depreciates. Because of this, the supply of housing (SHo) will shift to the left (to SH1) resulting in a new equilibrium demand of R1 (since the number of homes decreased, but demand still exists). The increase of demand from Ro to R1 will shift the value function up (from Vo to V1). As a result, more houses can be produced profitably and housing starts will increase (from HSo to HS1). Then the supply of housing will shift back to its initial position (SH1 to SHo).\n\nThe diagram on the right shows the effects of an increase in demand in the short run. If there is an increase in the demand for housing, such as the shift from Do to D1 there will be either a price or quantity adjustment, or both. For the price to stay the same, the supply of housing must increase. That is, supply SHo must increase by HS.\n\nThe diagram on the right shows the effects of an increase in costs in the short-run. If construction costs increase (say from CCo to CC1), developers will find their business less profitable and will be more selective in their ventures. In addition some developers may leave the industry. The quantity of housing starts will decrease (HSo to HS1). This will eventually reduce the level of supply (from SHo to SH1) as the existing stock of housing depreciates. Prices will tend to rise (from Ro to R1).\n\nThere are different ways of real estate financing: governmental and commercial sources and institutions. A homebuyer or builder can obtain financial aid from savings and loan associations, commercial banks, savings banks, mortgage bankers and brokers, life insurance companies, credit unions, federal agencies, individual investors, and builders.\n\nOver the last decade, residential prices increased every year on average by double digits in Beijing or Shanghai. However many observers and researchers argue that fundamentals of the housing sector, both sector-specific and macroeconomic, may have been the driving force behind housing price volatility.\n\nThe most important purpose of these institutions is to make mortgage loans on residential property. These organizations, which also are known as savings associations, building and loan associations, cooperative banks (in New England), or homestead associations (in Louisiana), are the primary source of financial assistance to a large segment of American homeowners. As home-financing institutions, they give primary attention to single-family residences and are equipped to make loans in this area.\n\nSome of the most important characteristics of a savings and loan association are:\n\n\nDue to changes in banking laws and policies, commercial banks are increasingly active in home financing. In acquiring mortgages on real estate, these institutions follow two main practices:\n\n\nIn addition, dealer service companies, which were originally used to obtain car loans for permanent lenders such as commercial banks, wanted to broaden their activity beyond their local area. In recent years, however, such companies have concentrated on acquiring mobile home loans in volume for both commercial banks and savings and loan associations. Service companies obtain these loans from retail dealers, usually on a non-recourse basis. Almost all bank or service company agreements contain a credit insurance policy that protects the lender if the consumer defaults.\n\nThese depository financial institutions are federally chartered, primarily accept consumer deposits, and make home mortgage loans.\n\nMortgage bankers are companies or individuals that originate mortgage loans, sell them to other investors, service the monthly payments, and may act as agents to dispense funds for taxes and insurance.\n\nMortgage brokers present homebuyers with loans from a variety of loan sources. Their income comes from the lender making the loan, just like with any other bank. Because they can tap a variety of lenders, they can shop on behalf of the borrower and achieve the best available terms. Despite legislation that could favor major banks, mortgage bankers and brokers keep the market competitive so the largest lenders must continue to compete on price and service. According to Don Burnette of Brightgreen Homeloans in Port Orange, Florida, \"The mortgage banker and broker conduit is vital to maintain competitive balance in the mortgage industry. cWithout it, the largest lenders would be able to unduly influence rates and pricing, potentially hurting the consumer. Competition drives every organization in this industry to constantly improve on their performance, and the consumer is the winner in this scenario.\"\n\nLife insurance companies are another source of financial assistance. These companies lend on real estate as one form of investment and adjust their portfolios from time to time to reflect changing economic conditions. Individuals seeking a loan from an insurance company can deal directly with a local branch office or with a local real estate broker who acts as loan correspondent for one or more insurance companies.\n\nThese cooperative financial institutions are organized by people who share a common bond—for example, employees of a company, labor union, or religious group. Some credit unions offer home loans in addition to other financial services.\n\nUnder certain conditions and fund limitations, the Veterans Administration (VA) makes direct loans to creditworthy veterans in housing credit shortage areas designated by the VA's administrator. Such areas are generally rural and small cities and towns not near the metropolitan or commuting areas of large cities—areas where GI loans from private institutions are not available.\n\nThe federally supported agencies referred to here do not include the so-called second-layer lenders who enter the scene after the mortgage is arranged between the lending institution and the individual home buyer.\n\nReal estate investment trusts (REITs), which began when the Real Estate Investment Trust Act became effective on January 1, 1961, are available. REITs, like savings and loan associations, are committed to real estate lending and can and do serve the national real estate market, although some specialization has occurred in their activities.\n\nIn the United States, REITs generally pay little or no federal income tax but are subject to a number of special requirements set forth in the Internal Revenue Code, one of which is the requirement to annually distribute at least 90% of their taxable income in the form of dividends to shareholders.\n\nIndividual investors constitute a fairly large but somewhat declining source of money for home mortgage loans. Experienced observers claim that these lenders prefer shorter-term obligations and usually restrict their loans to less than two-thirds of the value of the residential property. Likewise, building contractors sometimes accept second mortgages in partial payment of the construction price of a home if the purchaser is unable to raise the total amount of the down payment above the first mortgage money offered.\n\nIn addition, homebuyers or builders can save their money using FSBO in order not to pay extra fees.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51055194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51055194", "title": "Ricardian contract", "text": "Ricardian contract\n\nThe Ricardian contract, as invented by Ian Grigg in 1996, is a method of recording a document as a contract at law, and linking it securely to other systems, such as accounting, for the contract as an issuance of value. It is robust through use of identification by cryptographic hash function, transparent through use of readable text for legal prose and efficient through markup language to extract essential information.\n\nA Ricardian contract places the defining elements of a legal agreement in a format that can be expressed and executed in software. The key is to make the format both machine readable, such that they can easily be extracted for computational purposes, and readable as an ordinary text document such that lawyers and contracting parties may read the essentials of the contract conveniently.\n\nFrom a legal perspective, the use of markup language embedded within a mostly legal prose document leads to reduced transaction costs, faster dispute resolution, better enforceability and enhanced transparency. From a computing perspective, the Ricardian contract is a software design pattern to digitize documents and have them participate within financial transactions, such as payments, without losing any of the richness of the contracting tradition. Publication of the content and reference to that content by the unique cryptographic message digest eliminates frauds based on multiple presentations.\n\nThe method arises out of the work of Ian Grigg completed in the mid-1990s in contributions to Ricardo, a system of assets transfers that was built in 1995-1996 by Systemics and included the pattern. The system and the design pattern was named after David Ricardo in honour of his seminal contribution to international trade theory.\n\n\"A Ricardian contract can be defined as a single document that is \na) a contract offered by an issuer to holders, \nb) for a valuable right held by holders, and managed by the issuer, \nc) easily readable (like a contract on paper), \nd) readable by programs (parsable like a database), \ne) digitally signed,\nf) carrying the keys and server information, and \ng) allied with a unique and secure identifier.\" \n\nThe Ricardian contract separates the agreement of parties across time and domain. On the left of the \"Bowtie\" representation, the negotiation and formation of a legally binding contract leads to a single parent document that defines all of the intent of that agreement. On the right, the performance of that agreement might involve many transactions to be accounted for, logically separated from the meaning of the issue. The join between the legal world and the accounting world is formed by the hash — each transaction locks in the terms and conditions of the precise deal of the parties by including the hash of the contract in every relevant transaction record, yet the operation of the transactions and the issuance of the contract are cleanly separated and thus perverse incentives are eliminated.\n\nThe role of the Ricardian Contract is to capture the contractual relationship between contracting parties to assist later performance of that contract by programs. In its contractual form, it is the recording of an offer from an issuer to a holder. The offer is signed digitally within the format by the offerer, typically using a plaintext digital signature such as provided by OpenPGP.\nThe acceptance of the contract is typically formed by signing / agreeing to a transaction that refers to the hash of that contract. Within the context of a high performance payment system, a secure payment will cite the hash of the contract of the instrument being paid, as well as paying and payee parties and a quantity of units. In a smart contracts system, the acceptance would be performed by operating the contract's code to move the state of the agreement forward.\n\nTypically, the signing of the contract by any party is overtly performed by use of a private key. The original offerer's signature is typically over the original document, and is then appended to form a fully binding, readable offer for the assets described in the document.\nLater participation by parties in the contract such as payments or smart contract performance will typically sign over a hash identifier (as generated by a cryptographic hash function) over the signed original document. In contrast to the initial signature, the use of the hash of the contract within following transactions also signals intent, and forms a covert signature over the contract. Although private key signatures are well studied and are subject of legal frameworks such as the European digital signature directive, Grigg suggests that the trail of hashes - entanglement - forms a more effective evidence of intent than a private key signature.\n\nAs a pattern in design, the Ricardian Contract is like a reference - object tuple from the tradition of Object-oriented Programming. \nThe reference is a cryptographic hash function, and the object is formed by writing classes that handle the type of contract needed; a Factory (object-oriented programming) would typically read enough of the text of the document to figure out which class type is involved, and then construct an object of that specific class over the text.\nOnce an object is constructed, it can be interrogated for contents: the hash, name of issuer, nature of issue, keys and signature status.\n\nIf the agreement is more complicated than a single document can describe, the documents can be chained: An acceptance of an offer can be a Ricardian Contract that includes the hash of the offer, or the acceptance can include the entire contents of the earlier phase, a design pattern known as Russian dolls used by both OpenTransactions and OpenBazaar. These referral patterns can be conducted multiple times to create a chain or hierarchy of elements.\n\nA key decision is the formatting of the text such that minimal markup language can be inserted to assist the software agent while maintaining readability. To be a Ricardian Contract, it has to be parsable both by the program and by a human reader. Further, the format has to support a canonical form hash (cryptographic hash function), that is, have a way of delivering a hash over contents that does not change due to common serialisation and transmission artifacts.\nLaTeX or Ini file format are suitable because they allow consistent readability by humans.\nPopular and standardised formats such as JSON, XML and Semantic Web might appeal to programmers but provide less readability to jurists. Some formats also suffer from too much markup flexibility such as whitespace which makes hashing and signing hard.\n\nSmart contracts, as defined in the work of Nick Szabo are an abstract concept relating to the automated performance of an already agreed contract, whereas the Ricardian contract is a design pattern to capture the intent of the agreement of the parties, before its performance.\nBy means of a hashes within as references or links to external documents, above, the Ricardian Contract form easily extends to refer to code. The explicit referral to the code can pass legitimacy from over-arching legal prose to the code, thus implementing the concept of the smart contract.\nRefactoring to describe blockchains and to integrate references to smart contract logic created a hybrid version of the Ricardian Contract. This form proposes a tuple of {prose, parameters, code} where the parameters can particularise or specialise the legal prose and the computer code in order to create a single deal out of a template or library of components. Also known as a Ricardian triple, it can describe blockchains, smart contracts, IoT devices and persons.\n\nThere are several explicit extant implementations of the Ricardian contract design pattern and there are some projects which do so implicitly and others which are heading in that direction.\nAmongst those explicitly using the pattern are:\nThe Ricardian Contract is free of any intellectual property restrictions, other than the request that any implementations cite the author and link to the paper. It was fully published as design and implementation in 1996, and was described in an academic paper presented in 2004. No patent or other intellectual property mechanism was ever asserted by its inventor, Ian Grigg nor by Systemics.\n"}
{"id": "3408791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3408791", "title": "Ruling party", "text": "Ruling party\n\nThe ruling party or governing party or political party in a democratic parliamentary system is the current political party or coalition of the majority in parliament, that administers the affairs of state. In many other democratic republic countries, the ruling party is the party of the elected president that is in charge of the executive branch of government. Within a parliamentary system, the majority in the legislature also controls the executive branch of government, thus leaving no possibility of opposing parties concurrently occupying the executive and legislative branches of government, such as in an American style presidential system where the party of the president does not necessarily also have a legislative majority. \n\nA ruling party is also used to describe the party of one-party states, such as the Communist Party of China in the People's Republic of China. In his political manifesto \"The Green Book\", the late Libyan leader Muammar al-Gaddafi attacked the ability of the ruling party, using it as a basis for his opposition to partisan politics. This is an example of methods and rationale that dictatorships espouse to establish an unchanging monolithic society, tyrannical rule and autocracy, without any participatory opportunities offered to a population.\n\n"}
{"id": "20094515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20094515", "title": "Second League of Armed Neutrality", "text": "Second League of Armed Neutrality\n\nThe Second League of Armed Neutrality or the League of the North was an alliance of the north European naval powers Denmark–Norway, Prussia, Sweden, and Russia. It occurred between 1800 and 1801 during the War of the Second Coalition and was initiated by Paul I of Russia. It was a revival of the First League of Armed Neutrality (1780), which had been quite successful during the American War of Independence in isolating Britain and resisting attempts to interfere with their shipping. The Second League was less successful than the First.\n\nThe Second League was intended to protect neutral shipping against the Royal Navy's wartime policy of unlimited search of neutral shipping for French contraband, in an attempt to cut off military supplies and other trade to the First French Republic. The British government, not yet anxious to preserve Russian goodwill, openly considered it a form of alliance with France and attacked Denmark, destroying parts of its fleet in the first Battle of Copenhagen and forcing it to withdraw from the League. Britain also occupied the Danish West Indies between March 1801 and April 1802.\n\nIn addition to this, Prussia invaded Hanover in April 1801 as a way to attack the British. Paul's death in March 1801 and the accession of Alexander I led to a change of policy in Russia, and the alliance collapsed. Russia later joined the British in a coalition against Napoleonic France.\n\nThe prospect of a third league of armed neutrality potentially including Britain and France was briefly proposed in the 1860s, during the American Civil War, following the Trent Incident in which the US Navy stopped a British vessel and removed two Confederate diplomats. Ultimately the two countries did not form a league but did maintain the principle of the freedom of the seas, and both remained neutral.\n"}
{"id": "19454384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19454384", "title": "Serbian Progressive Party", "text": "Serbian Progressive Party\n\nThe Serbian Progressive Party ( or CHC/SNS) is a populist conservative political party in Serbia.\n\nFounded in 2008 as a split from the Serbian Radical Party (SRS), the culmination of a decade-long conflict within the SRS between the party's moderate and hard-line wings, the SNS managed to retain the former's national conservative outlook, while adopting distinct pro-European policies.\n\nThis combination has transformed the SNS into the current ruling party in Serbia, being the senior party in the current government coalition, the party's leader Aleksandar Vučić in turn serving as the President of Serbia. As of August 2018, the party holds 96 seats in the National Assembly.\n\nThe Serbian Progressive Party was formed by a group of 21 former Serbian Radical Party (SRS) MPs led by Tomislav Nikolić. Disenchanted with the direction of the party, the pro-EU members left and formed the \"Forward Serbia\" parliamentary group. The SNS was founded and held its first congress meeting on 21 October 2008.\n\nOf the Serbian Radical Party's representatives elected in the 2008 parliamentary election, 21 moved to the Serbian Progressive Party, while 57 remained in the SRS.\n\nIn 2011, the SNS formed a pre-election coalition with New Serbia, the Strength of Serbia Movement and the Movement of Socialists to participate in the 2012 election.\n\nIn the 2012 parliamentary election, the party led the \"Let's Get Serbia Moving\" coalition and gained 55 seats out of 73 won by the coalition in the National Assembly. Party leader Tomislav Nikolić defeated Boris Tadić of the Democratic Party in the second round of the 2012 presidential election.\n\nFollowing his election as President of Serbia, Nikolić stepped down as leader of the party on 24 May 2012, leaving deputy president Aleksandar Vučić in charge until a successor was elected. Vučić was the only candidate who ran for the party leadership, and was elected on 29 September 2012, with Jorgovanka Tabaković as his deputy.\n\nIn December 2012, the People's Party led by ex-Mayor of Novi Sad Maja Gojković, merged into the SNS.\n\nThe Serbian Progressive Party maintains cooperation with the Christian Democratic Union of Germany, Freedom Party of Austria and United Russia party. On 24 April 2013 the SNS' representatives in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe joined the Group of the European People's Party.\n\nMajor positions held by Serbian Progressive Party members:\n\n"}
{"id": "45596376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45596376", "title": "Sons of the American Legion", "text": "Sons of the American Legion\n\nThe Sons of the American Legion is a patriotic service organization formed on September 12–15, 1932. The S.A.L. is made up of male descendants of people who served in the United States Armed Forces during times specified by the American Legion. The Sons of the American Legion's mission to serve veterans, the military and their families is carried out through its hundreds of outreach programs delivered by its members, volunteers and national headquarters. The Sons of the American Legion's national headquarters is located in Indianapolis.\n\nTheir main mission is to sponsor programs that its parent organization, The American Legion, does to improve veterans communities, such as scholarships, veterans help programs (i.e. ending veterans homelessness), and youth sports. They also promote national security, patriotism, and devotion to veterans.\n\nThe establishment of the \"Sons of the American Legion\" as a non-political, no-sectarian civilian organization was authorized by action of the 14th National Convention of the \"American Legion\" in Portland, Oregon September 12–15, 1932.\n\nIn 1939, the S.A.L. was riding the crest and had a numerical size of about seven percent as large as the parent organization. The S.A.L. organization seemed destined to grow even larger, but looming on the horizon was World War II. With the passing of time, thousands of young men suddenly found themselves old enough to be in the armed services.\n\nMany of the S.A.L. members never returned from World War II and those that did found that their service had made them eligible to join the ranks of the \"American Legion\" itself, which, in 1942 opened the door to the returning World War II veterans.\n\nMembership dropped from a high of 72,633 in 1939 to a low of 5,631 in 1953. Many factors caused the lean years for the S.A.L. program. The former S.A.L., now veterans of World War II, had no grown children in the immediate postwar years. Housing shortages, a nation on the move, the G.I. Bill that sent thousands of veterans back to school, and the Korean War that put reservists back in uniform were some of the contributing factors.\n\nHowever, by 1963, enrollment had climbed to nearly 17,000. In noting this renewed growth, the National Executive Committee, in regular meetings assembled in Indianapolis, Indiana, April 30 – May 1, 1964, [passed Resolution 22, urging that the S.A.L. program \"be encouraged and implemented by internal promotion and increased public recognition through the national Headquarters staff and the various Departments of the \"American Legion\".\" Approval was given for the S.A.L. to conduct their first National S.A.L. Workshop during the Legion's National Convention in Dallas, Texas in 1964.\n\nIn noting a need for a small national body to give the S.A.L. program national direction and stimulation, the Legion's NEC gave its approval to Resolution 60 at its May 8–9, 1969, meeting in St. Louis, Missouri. Resolution 60 created a four-member Sons of the American Legion Committee.\n\nAfter conducting a long and detailed study of the over-all organizational structure of the S.A.L., the \"Sons of the American Legion Committee\" reported that there was a \"definite need for a national \"Sons of the American Legion\" organization and the updating of the National Constitution and By-Laws of the S.A.L., as approved by the Legion's NEC back in May 1933, and be subsequently amended\".\n\nAt its fall meeting in Indianapolis, IN, October 17–18, 1973, the Legion gave its approval to Resolution 15, abolishing the National S.A.L. Committee created by Resolution 60 by the Legion's NEC at its meeting May 8–9, 1969, in St. Louis, MO. Residual responsibilities of the National S.A.L. Committee are now assigned to the Legion's National Internal Affairs Commission.\n\nSince 1988, The Sons have raised more than $7 million for the American Legion Child Welfare Foundation.\n\nIn early to mid 2014, \"mySAL\" was launched to \"Sons of the American Legion\" squadron adjutants can now access membership information, reports and electronic membership tools online. On September 2, 2014, \"MyVA\" was launched as an initiative to help veterans. As of 2016, the membership total is over 360,000.\n\nAt the state level, the S.A.L. is organized into \"departments\", which run annual civic training events for high school juniors called Boys State. Two members from each Boys State are selected for Boys Nation. The American Legion Auxiliary runs Girls State and Girls Nation. In addition to Boys State, the S.A.L., division of the \"American Legion\", features numerous programs including American Legion Baseball, Scouting, Oratorical Contests, Junior Shooting Sports, Youth Alumni, the American Legion Riders, and Scholarships at every level of the organization.\n\nLaunched on September 2, 2014, MyVA is an initiative which will reorient VA around Veteran needs and empower employees to assist them in delivering excellent customer service to improve the Veteran experience. It is the largest department-wide transformation in VA’s history and will be a product of ideas and insights shared by Veterans, employees, members of Congress, VSOs, and other stakeholders.\nThe first phase of MyVA has included creating the task force and building the team to support the mission and an organizational change of this breadth. MyVA is focused on five areas of improvement:\n\n\nThe Regional Map can be found here.\n\nEligibility for the Sons of the American Legion membership is limited to those male descendants that have honorably discharged veterans and current personnel of the United States Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Coast Guard or Air Force who served at least one day of active duty during any of the following periods:\n\n\nThe squadron is the basic unit of the Legion and usually represents a small geographic area such as a single town or part of a county. There are roughly 14,900 posts in the United States. The squadron is used for formal business such as meetings and a coordination point for community service projects. Often the squadron will host community events such as bingo, Hunter breakfasts, holiday celebrations, and available to the community, churches in time of need. It is also not uncommon for the Post to contain a bar open during limited hours. An S.A.L. squadron member is distinguished by a French blue garrison cap with red, white and blue piping.\n\nEach U.S. county comprises several squadrons and oversees their operations, led by a County Council of elected officers. The County Commander performs annual inspections of the Posts within their jurisdiction and reports the findings to both the District and the Department level. An S.A.L. County member is distinguished by a French blue garrison cap with white piping.\n\nEach squadron is divided into Divisions and/or Districts. Each District oversees several squadrons, generally about 20, to help each smaller group have a larger voice. Divisions are even larger groups of about four or more Districts. The main purpose of these \"larger\" groups (Districts—Divisions) is to allow one or two delegates to represent an area at conferences, conventions, and other gatherings, where large numbers of Legionnaires may not be able to attend. A District member is distinguished by a French blue garrison cap with a white crown and red, white and blue piping.\n\nThe squadrons are grouped together into a state level organization known as a Detachment for the purposes of coordination and administration. There is a total of 55 Detachments; one for each of the 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, France, Mexico, and the Philippines. Canada was merged into Department of New York several years ago. The three Detachments located overseas are intended to allow active duty military stationed and veterans living overseas to be actively involved with the American Legion similar to as if they were back in the States. The Detachment of France consists of 29 Posts located in 10 European counties, the Detachment of Mexico consists of 22 Posts located in Central America, and the Detachment of Philippines covers Asia and the Pacific Islands. A Detachment member is distinguished by a French blue garrison cap with a gold crown and red, white and blue piping.\n\nThe main S.A.L. Headquarters is located on the Indiana World War Memorial Plaza in Indianapolis. It is the primary office for the National Commander and also houses the historical archives, library, Membership, Internal Affairs, Public Relations, and the Magazine editorial offices. The Legion also owns a building in Washington D.C. that contains many of the operation offices such as Economics, Legislative, Veterans Affairs, Foreign Relations, National Security, and Media Relations. A National member is distinguished by a gold garrison cap with a gold crown and red, white and blue piping.\n\nNational Headquarters developed the website to mimic myLegion, which assists a post, district, county, and state officers with their membership needs. Download an authorization form at mySAL to start the process of creating a squadron account. Once an account is created, you can login here: mySAL.\"Sons of the American Legion\" squadron adjutants can now access membership information, reports and electronic membership tools online. As of April 2015, Detachments now have access to the website which provides membership information, reports and electronic membership tools such as data change forms for all squadrons within their Detachment.\n\nThe following list is from the S.A.L. website:\n\n"}
{"id": "4103378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4103378", "title": "Swraj Paul, Baron Paul", "text": "Swraj Paul, Baron Paul\n\nSwraj Paul, Baron Paul, PC (born 18 February 1931) is an Indian-born, British-based business magnate and philanthropist. In 1996 he was appointed a life peer by Conservative Prime Minister John Major, and sits in the House of Lords as a crossbencher with the title Baron Paul, of Marylebone, in the City of Westminster. In December 2008 he was appointed deputy speaker of the Lords; in October 2009 he was appointed to the Privy Council. \n\nAccording to his official biography, Swraj Paul was born in Jalandhar, Punjab Province in 1931, in what was then British India. His father Payare Lal ran a small foundry, making steel buckets and farming equipment. His mother's name was Mongwati. The site of his childhood home is now Apeejay School.\n\nSwraj Paul completed his high school education at Labbu Ram Doaba School. Paul was educated at Forman Christian College in Lahore, and Doaba College in Jalandhar. He went to the United States to study mechanical engineering, obtaining BSc, MSc and MechE degrees from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.\n\nAfter leaving MIT he returned to India to work for the family business, Apeejay Surrendra Group, which was founded by his father, and was, at the time, managed by his two older brothers, Stya Paul and Jit Paul.\n\nIn 1966 he relocated to the United Kingdom to get medical treatment for his young daughter, who had leukaemia. He spent a year grieving her death, after which he founded Natural Gas Tubes. Starting with one steel unit, he went on to acquire more. This led to his founding the Caparo Group in 1968, which became one of the UK’s largest steel conversion and distribution businesses, manufacturing an extensive range of structural steels, precision tube, spirally welded tube, special bar qualities, industrial wires, cold rolled strip and spring steel strip. Lord Paul stepped down from the management of the Caparo Group in 1996.\n\nUp until Autumn 2015, Caparo employed over 10,000 people across North America, Europe, India and, the Middle East. In October 2015, 16 of the 20 limited companies that formed most of Caparo Group UK collapsed into administration, and on 8 November his son Angad Paul, the Group's CEO, died in an apparent suicide from his eight floor penthouse flat.\n\nLord Paul has held many public positions. In 2006, as part of his parliamentary work, he made a declaration of interest; he was involved with more than a dozen organisations outside his family business and foundation. This foundation, named in memory of his daughter, channels profits from Caparo India into charitable endeavours. For example, Paul is an honorary patron of the Zoological Society of London and has funded major projects at the Regent's Park site, including the Ambika Paul children's zoo.\n\nThe Foundation has established the Ambika Paul School of Technology in Jalandhar, India.\n\nLord Paul held the Pro-Chancellorship of Thames Valley University in 1997, and Chancellorship in 1998.\n\nHe has been the Chancellor of the University of Wolverhampton since 1998. In 2010 the student union centre was renamed \"The Ambika Paul Student Union Centre\", following his donation towards its refurbishment. In 2015 he gave, through his family foundation, £1 million, the largest single donation in the university's history.\n\nLord Paul was Chancellor of University of Westminster, from 2006 to 2014; his foundation donated £300,000. to establish the Ambika P3 event and exhibition space.\n\nHe sat on MIT's Mechanical Engineering Visiting Committee between 1998 and 2001, when he established the Ambika Paul Mezzanine and Study Space, and the Swraj Paul Scholarship fund for undergraduate and graduate students.\n\nLord Paul is a member of the President's Cabinet for Chapman University in Orange, California.\n\nLord Paul has taken an interest in international relations. He was appointed by the government to act as an ambassador for British business from 1998 –2010. He was a member of the Foreign Policy Centre Advisory Council. He contested for the chairmanship of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association, with an agenda to reduce the gap between the West and the East. Lord Paul was Co-Chairman of the Indo-British Roundtable from 2000–2005. He was a member of Panel 2000, an appointment by the Prime Minister to re-brand Britain.\n\nLord Paul has donated £500,000 to the Labour Party, being the largest donor to Gordon Brown's leadership campaign and offering in 2007 to give \"as much as [he] can afford\" in the case of an early election. He is also close to the former UK Prime Minister's wife, Sarah Brown, for whom he shows paternal concern Lord Paul was chairman and trustee of Theirworld and chairman Theirworld Projects Ltd (formerly PiggyBankKids) from 2002 to 2015; the charity was founded by Sarah Brown.\n\nHe was the first person of Indian origin to hold the post of deputy speaker of the House of Lords, one of twelve people in that post. He was sworn of the Privy Council on 15 October 2009.\n\nLord Paul was involved with the London Olympics from its inception; he was a member of the board responsible for the 2005 submission of the bid for the 2012 Summer Olympics. He travelled to Singapore as part of the bidding team that successfully persuaded the International Olympic Committee to award the games to London for 2012. He chaired the Olympic Delivery Committee, part of the London Development Agency, with the job of obtaining the land on which to build the new venues, and delivering the land on time and on budget. (See Legacy of the 2012 Summer Olympics.)\n\nLord Paul has received various awards and honours including 15 honorary degrees from universities in the UK, USA, India, Russia and Switzerland. In 1983 he was awarded the Padma Bhushan, by Indira Gandhi, the Prime Minister of India, and the Bharat Gaurav award by the Indian Merchants' Chamber. Freedom of the City of London, 1998; Asian Business Awards, Lifetime Achievement Award, 2008; Donald C. Burnham Manufacturing Management Award, Society of Manufacturing Engineers, USA, 1995; First Asian of the Year Award, Asian Who's Who, 1987; \nAsian Woman Magazine Lifetime Achievement Award, 2008. PowerBrands Hall of Fame nominated him Global Indian of the Year, 2011. Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Corporate Leadership Award, 1989.\n\nHe was awarded \"International Indian of Decade\" for his outstanding achievements in the fields of industry, education and philanthropy at the 20th anniversary of the publication of India Link International, a monthly magazine on 15 November 2013.\n\nMost recently Lord Paul was presented with a Lifetime Achievement Award by the Black Country Asian Business Association for his \"outstanding achievements in the fields of industry, education and philanthropy\".\n\nIn 2014 Lord Paul received a further Lifetime Achievement Award in recognition of his work in promoting India-UK educational ties from the Global Skill Tree consortium,an India Based think tank, which hopes to promote India as a global hub of international education through its \"Great Place to Study – India\" initiative.\n\nIn July 2014 Lord Paul was given the ‘International Icon of the Decade Award’ by the World Consulting Research Corporation at its Global Indian Excellence Summit held in London, this was in recognition of \"his outstanding achievements in the fields of manufacturing, education and philanthropy\".\n\nIn 2018 Lord Paul received two awards during a trip to India: the IOD Golden Peacock Award For Lifetime Achievement in Business Leadership which was presented on 6 April and the Global Punjabi Society Lifetime Achievement Award which was given on 11 April 2018.\n\nIn May 2018 Lord Paul was given the Int+ WCRC International Iconic Leader Award for Lifetime Achievement, at the UK & Asia Business Awards ceremony in London.\n\nIn October 2018 he was awarded the Mahatma Gandhi Honour by the NRI Institute in celebration of their 30th anniversary.\n\nIn October 2009 \"The Sunday Times\" reported that Lord Paul had been unable satisfactorily to explain claiming expenses of £38,000 for the period January 2005 to July 2006. Lord Paul immediately requested the Clerk of the Parliaments to investigate his expenses at the same time repaying, £41,982 instead of £26,988 – £15,000, more than the House of Lords would have requested at the conclusion of their investigation. A refund of the difference was never issued by the House of Lords. The Metropolitan Police opened an investigation concerning these expense claims, but by the end of February 2010 concluded there was no case. Lord Paul appeared before various committees for Lord's Conduct with ultimately the Privileges Committee concluding that Lord Paul had not acted dishonestly or in bad faith. They did determine however that he had been negligent and acted in ignorance and that his actions did render him liable to sanction by the House.\" Lord Paul's suspension was for four months. Lord Paul completely disagreed with their finding, calling it \"unreasonable.\" Lord Paul gave a Speech in the House of Lords in June 2011 calling for reform and revision of the structure of the constitution.\n\nPaul tendered his resignation as Deputy Speaker to the Lord Speaker on 1 November 2010. His letter, printed in \"The House Magazine\" a week later, expressed his reservations about the process, calling it \"a sad saga for parliamentary democracy – an unfortunate series of events having evidently been inspired by the electoral politics of the media\". He has spoken on this topic many times since the expenses scandal initially made news, and maintains that no wrongdoing had occurred in his case.\n\nLord Paul is on the Sunday Times Rich List as the 38th richest person in Britain, although he claims to take public transport in London \"like everybody else\". Since the 1960s he has lived in Portland Place, in central London. He and his family own a dozen flats in the block, each one worth close to a million pounds. He also has a country estate, in Beaconsfield, Buckinghamshire.\n\nHis son Angad Paul, CEO of Caparo plc, died after falling from his Marylebone penthouse flat on 8 November 2015. A police statement stated they considered there to be no suspicious circumstances.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30808999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30808999", "title": "Tea Party Review", "text": "Tea Party Review\n\nThe Tea Party Review is a magazine first published in February 2011 by the Tea Party movement. The magazine is published on a monthly basis.\n"}
{"id": "1325116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1325116", "title": "Technocracy", "text": "Technocracy\n\nTechnocracy is a proposed system of governance where decision-makers are selected on the basis of their expertise in their areas of responsibility, particularly scientific knowledge. This system explicitly contrasts with the notion that elected representatives should be the primary decision-makers in government, though it does not necessarily imply eliminating elected representatives. Leadership skills for decision-makers are selected on the basis of specialized knowledge and performance, rather than political affiliations or parliamentary skills.\n\nThe term \"technocracy\" was originally used to advocate the application of the scientific method to solving social problems. Concern could be given to sustainability within the resource base, instead of monetary profitability, so as to ensure continued operation of all social-industrial functions. In its most extreme sense technocracy is an entire government run as a technical or engineering problem and is mostly hypothetical. In more practical use, technocracy is any portion of a bureaucracy that is run by technologists. A government in which elected officials appoint experts and professionals to administer individual government functions and recommend legislation can be considered technocratic. Some uses of the word refer to a form of meritocracy, where the ablest are in charge, ostensibly without the influence of special interest groups.\n\nThe term \"technocracy\" is derived from the Greek words τέχνη, \"tekhne\" meaning \"skill\" and κράτος, \"kratos\" meaning \"power\", as in \"governance\", or \"rule\". William Henry Smyth, a Californian engineer, is usually credited with inventing the word \"technocracy\" in 1919 to describe \"the rule of the people made effective through the agency of their servants, the scientists and engineers\", although the word had been used before on several occasions. Smyth used the term \"Technocracy\" in his 1919 article \"'Technocracy'—Ways and Means to Gain Industrial Democracy,\" in the journal \"Industrial Management\" (57). Smyth's usage referred to Industrial democracy: a movement to integrate workers into decision making through existing firms or revolution.\n\nIn the 1930s, through the influence of Howard Scott and the technocracy movement he founded, the term technocracy came to mean, 'government by technical decision making', using an energy metric of value. Scott proposed that money be replaced by energy certificates denominated in units such as ergs or joules, equivalent in total amount to an appropriate national net energy budget, and then distributed equally among the North American population, according to resource availability.\n\nThere is in common usage found the derivative term \"technocrat\". The word \"technocrat\" can refer to someone exercising governmental authority because of their knowledge, or \"a member of a powerful technical elite\", or \"someone who advocates the supremacy of technical experts\". McDonnell and Valbruzzi define a prime minister or minister as a technocrat if “at the time of his/her appointment to government, he/she: has never held public office under the banner of a political party; is not a formal member of any party; and is said to possess recognized non-party political expertise which is directly relevant to the role occupied in government”. In Russia, the President of Russia has often nominated ministers based on technical expertise from outside political circles, and these have been referred to as \"technocrats\".\n\nBefore the term \"technocracy\" was coined, technocratic or quasi-technocratic ideas involving governance by technical experts were promoted by various individuals, most notably early socialist theorists such as Henri de Saint-Simon. This was expressed by the belief in state ownership over the economy, with the function of the state being transformed from one of pure philosophical rule over men into a scientific administration of things and a direction of processes of production under scientific management. According to Daniel Bell:\n\"St. Simon's vision of industrial society, a vision of pure technocracy, was a system of planning and rational order in which society would specify its needs and organize the factors of production to achieve them.\" Citing the ideas of St. Simon, Bell comes to the conclusion that the \"administration of things\" by rational judgement is the hallmark of technocracy.\n\nAlexander Bogdanov, a Russian scientist and social theorist, also anticipated a conception of technocratic process. Both Bogdanov’s fiction and his political writings, which were highly influential, suggest that he expected a coming revolution against capitalism to lead to a technocratic society.\n\nFrom 1913 until 1922, Bogdanov immersed himself in the writing of a lengthy philosophical treatise of original ideas, \"Tectology: Universal Organization Science\". Tectology anticipated many basic ideas of systems analysis, later explored by cybernetics. In \"Tectology\", Bogdanov proposed to unify all social, biological, and physical sciences by considering them as systems of relationships and by seeking the organizational principles that underlie all systems.\n\nArguably, the Platonic idea of philosopher-kings represents a sort of technocracy in which the state is run by those with specialist knowledge, in this case, knowledge of the Good, rather than scientific knowledge. The Platonic claim is that those who best understand goodness should be empowered to lead the state, as they would lead it toward the path of happiness. Whilst knowledge of the Good is different to knowledge of science, rulers are here appointed based on a certain grasp of technical skill, rather than democratic mandate.\n\nTechnocrats are individuals with technical training and occupations who perceive many important societal problems as being solvable, often while proposing technology-focused solutions. The administrative scientist Gunnar K. A. Njalsson theorizes that technocrats are primarily driven by their cognitive \"problem-solution mindsets\" and only in part by particular occupational group interests. Their activities and the increasing success of their ideas are thought to be a crucial factor behind the modern spread of technology and the largely ideological concept of the \"information society\". Technocrats may be distinguished from \"econocrats\" and \"bureaucrats\" whose problem-solution mindsets differ from those of the technocrats.\n\nThe former government of the Soviet Union has been referred to as a technocracy. Soviet leaders like Leonid Brezhnev often had a technical background in education; in 1986, 89% of Politburo members were engineers.\n\nSeveral governments in European parliamentary democracies have been labeled 'technocratic' based on the participation of unelected experts ('technocrats') in prominent positions. Since the 1990s, Italy has had several such governments (in Italian, \"governo tecnico\") in times of economic or political crisis, including the formation in which economist Mario Monti presided over a cabinet of unelected professionals. The term 'technocratic' has been applied to governments where a cabinet of elected professional politicians is led by an unelected prime minister, such as in the cases of the 2011-2012 Greek government led by economist Lucas Papademos, and the Czech Republic's 2009–2010 caretaker government presided over by the state's chief statistician, Jan Fischer. In December 2013, in the framework of the national dialogue facilitated by Tunisian National Dialogue Quartet, political parties in Tunisia agreed to install a technocratic government led by Mehdi Jomaa.\n\nIn the article \"Technocrats: Minds Like Machines\", it is stated that Singapore is perhaps the best advertisement for technocracy: the political and expert components of the governing system there seem to have merged completely. This was underlined in a 1993 article in \"Wired\" by Sandy Sandfort, where he describes the information technology system of the island even at that early date making it effectively intelligent.\n\nFollowing Samuel Haber, Donald Stabile argues that engineers were faced with a conflict between physical efficiency and cost efficiency in the new corporate capitalist enterprises of the late nineteenth century United States. The profit-conscious, non-technical managers of firms where the engineers work, because of their perceptions of market demand, often impose limits on the projects that engineers desire to undertake.\n\nThe prices of all inputs vary with market forces thereby upsetting the engineer's careful calculations. As a result, the engineer loses control over projects and must continually revise plans. To keep control over projects the engineer must attempt to exert control over these outside variables and transform them into constant factors.\n\nLeaders of the Communist Party of China are mostly professional engineers. The Five-year plans of the People's Republic of China have enabled them to plan ahead in a technocratic fashion to build projects such as the National Trunk Highway System, the China high-speed rail system, and the Three Gorges Dam.\n\nThe American economist and sociologist Thorstein Veblen was an early advocate of technocracy, and was involved in the Technical Alliance as was Howard Scott and M. King Hubbert (who later developed the theory of peak oil). Veblen believed that technological developments would eventually lead toward a socialistic organization of economic affairs. Veblen saw socialism as one intermediate phase in an ongoing evolutionary process in society that would be brought about by the natural decay of the business enterprise system and by the inventiveness of engineers.\nDaniel Bell sees an affinity between Veblen and the Technocracy movement.\n\nIn 1932, Howard Scott and Marion King Hubbert founded Technocracy Incorporated, and proposed that money be replaced by energy certificates. The group argued that apolitical, rational engineers should be vested with authority to guide an economy into a thermodynamically balanced load of production and consumption, thereby doing away with unemployment and debt.\n\nThe technocracy movement was highly popular in the USA for a brief period in the early 1930s, during the Great Depression. By the mid-1930s, interest in the movement was declining. Some historians have attributed the decline of the technocracy movement to the rise of Roosevelt's New Deal.\n\nHistorian William E. Akin rejects the conclusion that technocracy ideas declined because of the attractiveness of Roosevelt and the New Deal. Instead Akin argues that the movement declined in the mid-1930s as a result of the technocrats' failure to devise a 'viable political theory for achieving change'. Akin postulates that many technocrats remained\nvocal and dissatisfied and often sympathetic to anti-New Deal third party efforts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4040200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4040200", "title": "Track and trace", "text": "Track and trace\n\nIn distribution and logistics of many types of products, track and trace or tracking and tracing, concerns a process of determining the current and past locations (and other information) of a unique item or property.\n\nThis concept can be supported by means of reckoning and reporting of the position of vehicles and containers with the property of concern, stored, for example, in a real-time database. This approach leaves the task to compose a coherent depiction of the subsequent status reports.\n\nAnother approach is to report the arrival or departure of the object and recording the identification of the object, the location where observed, the time, and the status. This approach leaves the task to verify the reports regarding consistency and completeness. An example of this method might be the package tracking provided by shippers, such as Deutsche Post, United Parcel Service, AirRoad, or FedEx.\n\nThe international standards organization EPCglobal under GS1 has ratified the EPC network standards (esp. the EPC information services EPCIS standard) which codify the syntax and semantics for supply chain events and the secure method for selectively sharing supply chain events with trading partners. These standards for Tracking and Tracing have been used in successful deployments in many industries and there are now a wide range of products that are certified as being compatible with these standards.\n\nIn response to a growing number of recall incidents (food, pharmaceutical, toys, etc.), a wave of software, hardware, consulting and systems vendors have emerged over the last few years to offer a range of traceability solutions and tools for industry.\nRadio-frequency identification and barcodes are two common technology methods used to deliver traceability.\n\nRFID is synonymous with track-and-trace solutions, and has a critical role to play in supply chains. RFID is a code-carrying technology, and can be used in place of a barcode to enable non-line of sight-reading. Deployment of RFID was earlier inhibited by cost limitations but the usage is now increasing.\n\nBarcoding is a common and cost-effective method used to implement traceability at both the item and case-level. Variable data in a barcode or a numeric or alphanumeric code format can be applied to the packaging or label. The secure data can be used as a pointer to traceability information and can also correlate with production data such as time to market and product quality.\n\nPackaging converters have a choice of three different classes of technology to print barcodes:\n\nConsumers can access web sites to trace the origins of their purchased products or to find the status of shipments. Consumers can type a code found on an item into a search box at the tracing website and view information. This can also be done via a smartphone taking a picture of a 2D barcode and thereby opening up a website that verifies the product (i.e. product authentication).\n\n"}
{"id": "57490103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57490103", "title": "United Nations Disarmament Commission", "text": "United Nations Disarmament Commission\n\nThe United Nations Disarmament Commission (UNDC) is a United Nations commission under the United Nations General Assembly which primarily deals with issues relating to Disarmament.\n\nThe United Nations Disarmament Commission was first established on 11 January 1952 by United Nations General Assembly Resolution 502 (VI). This commission was put under the jurisdiction of the United Nations Security Council and its mandate included: preparing proposals for a treaty for the regulation, limitation and balanced reduction of all armed forces and all armaments, including the elimination of all weapons of mass destruction. \nHowever, this commission only met a few times, and was followed by a succession of other disarmament-focused bodies: the Ten-Nation Disarmament Committee (1960), the Eighteen Nation Committee on Disarmament (1962), the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament (1969) and, finally, the Conference on Disarmament (1979), which still meets to this day. \n\nThe second iteration of the commission was formed on 30 June 1978 by the General Assembly as a subsidiary organ of the Assembly. This commissions includes all members states of the United Nations and meets yearly in New York for approximately three weeks. It is a deliberative body, whose mandate is considering and making recommendations on various issues in the field of disarmament. Due to the fact that disarmament is a substantial topic, the UNDC has traditionally focused on a limited number of agenda items at each session, typically three or four. In 1998, this tendency was made official by the General assembly, who through decision 52/492, limited the work of the UNDC to \"two agenda items per year from the whole range of disarmament issues, including one on nuclear disarmament.\" Additionally, each topic is considered in the UNDC for a three-year period. Each session, working groups are created, the number of which is dependent on the number of agenda items being discussed by the body.\n\n"}
{"id": "52536379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52536379", "title": "Women in Iceland", "text": "Women in Iceland\n\nWomen in Iceland generally enjoy good gender equality. As of 2018, 88% of working-age women are employed, 65% of students attending university are female, and 41% of members of parliament are women. Nevertheless, women still earn about 14% less than men. Iceland has the world's highest proportion of women in the labour market, significant child care allocations for working women, and three months' parental leave for both men and women.\n\nIceland is arguably one of the world's most feminist countries, having been awarded this status in 2011 for the second year in a row. Iceland was the first country to have a female president, Vigdís Finnbogadóttir, elected in 1980. It also has the world's first female and openly gay head of government, Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, who was elected prime minister in 2003.\n\nIceland enjoys the smallest overall gender gap, according to the World Economic Forum ranking Global Gender Gap Report, a position it has held since 2008. In 2016 Iceland had a 12.6% gap, as measured across four categories: health, education, economic participation and opportunity, and political advancement.\n\nThe pay gap between women and men is decreasing at a rate which would lead to parity in 2068. Women earn about 72% of men's salaries on average, and are still subject to domestic and sexual violence.\n\nBoth Norse men and Norse women colonised England, the Shetland and Orkney Islands, and Iceland during Viking Age migrations from Scandinavia. Norse women journeyed with men as explorers, and later as settlers in the Settlement of Iceland. The settler Aud the Deep-Minded was one of the earliest known Icelandic women. She was one of the four main settlers in early Icelandic history. Other notable early Icelanders include the explorer Gudrid Thorbjarnardóttir, the poet Steinunn Refsdóttir, and Thorgerd Egilsdottir wife of Olaf the Peacock. The age of settlement is considered to have ended in the year 930 with the establishment of Alþingi.\n\nDuring the Viking Age, Norse women worked in farming and commerce alongside men, and were often left in charge while their husbands were away or had been killed. Women's workshops for making woolen textiles have been found in Iceland. \n\nViking Age society was male-dominated, with defined gender roles. The dead were buried with some of their possessions: men were buried with tools and weapons, women with needlework, jewelry, rings of keys, and household items, although beads have been found in both male and female burials. Viking Age women could own their own property, ask for a divorce and were entitled to reclaim their dowries. If a woman's husband died, she would take his place on a permanent basis; in this way, women were often running farms or trading businesses. The Icelandic Sagas make reference to women acting as nurses and midwives, and attending to the wounds of men injured in battle.\n\nIcelandic women first got the right to vote in parliamentary elections in 1915.\n\nIn 1845 the vote was limited to men above a certain age who owned property and paid taxes. These restrictions were lifted over time, and in 1903 all men could vote except farm labourers. In 1907 the right to vote in municipal elections was extended to all women, having been granted to widows and single women of independent means in 1882.\n\nA bill for women's suffrage was agreed on by the Althing in 1911, ratified by the Althing in 1913, and enacted on 19 June 1915 by the Danish king but only granted the vote to women over 40, and did not grant the right to vote to servants. At the time this was around 12,000 Icelandic women. In 1920 these restrictions were lifted after Iceland became an independent state under the Danish crown in 1918.\n\nIt is said that in 1975, women in the workplace made 60% less than their male counterparts. Many were unable to work as they had to stay at home to do the housework and raise the children. On Friday, October 24, women left their formal and informal work at 14:05 (2:05p.m.), the time at which they would have earned their day's wage had they been paid at the same average rate as men. The scale of the event was very large, involving 25,000 women in a country with just 220,000 inhabitants. In Reykjavik, almost 90% of the women participated..\n\nThe first strike in 1975 affected many things. Many schoolteachers were women, so schools closed or nearly so. The walkout disrupted the telephone service, and halted the printing of newspapers, as the typesetters were all women. Daycares were mostly closed, because the daycare workers were women, so men had to take their children to work. Easy-to-cook meals ran out in many stores, as did sweets and items to distract children. The strike continued until midnight, when women returned to work. The typesetters returned to set newspapers which were almost entirely devoted to the womens' strike.\n\nWoman achieved their intended goal, basically shutting down Iceland for the day. Men referred to this day as \"the Long Friday\". Vigdís says she would not have become president without the strike which she said was the \"first step for women's emancipation in Iceland\", which \"completely paralysed the country and opened the eyes of many men\". In the year following the strike, Iceland set up the Gender Equality Council, and passed the Gender Equality Act, which prohibited gender discrimination in the workplace and in schools.\n\nThe strike was repeated; in 1975, 2005, 2010, and 2016 women in Iceland walked out in accordance to the time of day that they would stop being paid if their wage was the same as men. On October 24, 2016 women left work at 2:38pm, for the 41st anniversary of the original women's day off. This indicated that women have gained only a half an hour more in pay in 11 years, that is slightly less than three minutes per year. The International Women's Strike, a global version inspired by the Icelandic strike, spread in 2017 and 2018.\n\n45.5% of the Icelandic formal workforce was women in 2010. In the 2000s, just under 80% of Icelandic women were in formal employment, the highest rate in the OECD (about 86% of men were in formal employment). Rates of mothers in work are also high, perhaps due to high childcare coverage and generous parental leave policies. Women were in formal work for an average of 35 hours a week, compared to 44 hours for men. In 2008, 65% of women working were doing so full-time, compared to 90% of men. \n\n14% of Icelandic families have single mothers, while 2% have single fathers. 40% have both parents, while the remainder of families are childless. Among those not in formal employment, a 2010 survey found that 95% of those describing themselves as homemakers were women. The survey also found 1200 people on unpaid family leave, all of them women. \n\nIn 1987 Icelandic fathers were given the right to share some of the mother's six month family entitlement. This was enacted due to the passing of similar laws in Norway and Sweden. In 2000, Iceland passed a law for a father's quota; three months of paid leave were reserved for the father, three for the mother, and the remaining three could be used by either parent. This was enacted in stages, with the amount of leave increased each year, being fully implemented in 2003.\n\nAfter the law was brought in, more than 90% of fathers used their paternal leave. Research found that this put men and women on a more equal footing in the workplace, but did not seem to affect the pay gap. In 2012, there were plans to gradually increase the leave to be five months for each parent, plus two months of transferrable leave, by 2016.\n\nThe Icelandic labour market is strongly gender-segregated, with substantial differences in gender ratios in different sectors. Women in Iceland are more likely to get university degrees than men, up to the PhD level. They made up forty percent of tertiary graduates in science, mathematics and computing, and 35% of graduates in engineering, manufacturing, and construction, in 2012/2013. Over 80% of health graduates, and over 70% of veterinary, agricultural, and education graduates, are women. Less than a quarter of those working as plant and machine operators and in crafts and trades, agriculture, fisheries, and management are women (although, against this trend, 60% of managers in the civil society sector are women). Women are more likely to work in the public sector, men in the private sector, which means women's employment is not as strongly affected by economic fluctuations. Women are less likely to get trade and vocational qualifications. Journalists are slightly less likely to be women than men, but less than one in three interviewees in news programs is a woman.\n\nIn the wake of the 2008–2011 Icelandic financial crisis, there was a swing towards female leadership. Women had been all but absent from pre-crisis banking boards; after the crisis, they were appointed to the new boards, and two-thirds of the bank managers appointed after nationalization were female. Women were also more successful in running for political office, with the proportion of women in parliament rising to a record 43%.\n\nIceland is arguably one of the world's most gender-equal countries. It is listed as number one in the 2016 best places to work by \"The Economist\"'s women index. It has been named the most feminist country in the world, and has been listed number one on the World Economic Forum gender pay gap index since 2009. For the past eight years \"Iceland has finished first of more than a hundred countries in the World Economic Forum’s annual Global Gender Gap ranking, which quantifies disparities between men and women in health, politics, education, and employment (the higher a country’s ranking, the smaller its gender disparities).\"\n\nIn Iceland women are paid about 18% less than their male counterparts, if working in the same job with the same level of experience; for comparison, the average European wage gap is 16.2%. Excluding ranking, position, and hours worked, the average annual income for women is 28% less than men. In rural areas, the pay gap is generally larger. At the current rate, women will not experience equal pay until 2068. The Icelandic government has said it aims to close the gender pay gap in Iceland by 2022.\n\nIn 2018, Iceland made unequal pay for equal work illegal; companies and government agencies with over 25 employees face heavy fines.\n\nIceland became the third modern democratic country in which women gained the vote in 1915. However, by 1975, there were only three parlimentarians (5% of all parliamentarians), and there had only been nine female parlimentarians in total. Other Nordic countries had 16%-23%. After the 1975 Icelandic women's strike, more women were elected. In 2015, 28 parlimentarians (44%) were female.\n\nIceland has had a woman as either president or prime minister for 20 of the last 36 years. In the 2016 parliamentary election covering 63 seats, 30 women were elected, increasing the number of females in the Alþingi to over 47%. Compared to the United States which sits at twenty percent, Iceland was said to have the \"most equal parliament\" in the world when women won 48% of the seats in 2016.\n\nOn June 29, 1980 Vigdís Finnbogadóttir was voted in as the first female president of Iceland, and the fourth president of the republic. She was the first woman to be elected head of state in a national election, and the world's first democratically elected female president. After becoming president without opposition in 1984, 1988, and 1992, she retired from the presidency in 1996. Vigdis also was an artistic Director of the Reykjavík Theatre Company, she was a teacher of French at the University of Iceland, and was the press officer at the National Theatre of Iceland (1954-1957 and 1961-1964). She broadcast lectures on local television, and trained local tour guides.\n\nDuring her time as president she used her position to focus on youth and to support forestry, while promoting Icelandic language and culture. After her retirement as president in 1996, Vigdis went on to become \"founding chair of the Council of Women World Leaders at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University\". Two years later, in 1998, she was appointed president of the Unesco World Commission on the Ethics of Scientific Knowledge and Technology.\n\nIn 2003 Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir was elected as the first female Prime Minister of Iceland as well as the world's first openly lesbian head of government. She held that position for 16 years and used her leadership to attempt to ban strip clubs \"explaining it as a necessary measure to bring about justice, which is impossible, as she concluded, when women are treated like commodities\". Before this Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir was already a very active member of government. In 1978 she was elected into the Althing as a member of the Social Democratic Party. She became minister of social affairs in 1987, a position she held until 1994. She started her own party in 1994 called National Movement, which joined with the Social Democratic Party, Women’s Alliance and the People’s Alliance in 1999, and in 2000 merged to become the Social Democratic Alliance. On June 27, 2010 Iceland declared same-sex marriage legal, and Jóhanna and her partner Jónína Leósdóttir were officially married.\n\nKatrín Jakobsdóttir, a member of the left-leaning Left-Green Movement, became Iceland's second female prime minister. One of her actions as prime minister was to organise a new law which requires Icelandic companies to demonstrate that they pay men and women equally. Katrín is the youngest female leader in Europe. She became a member of the Althing aged 31, the Minister of Education, Science and Culture at 33, and the leader of the Left-Green Movement at 37.\n\nBefore the Icelandic Reformation, Iceland had two convents, Kirkjubæjar Abbey and Reynistaðarklaustur. The Church of Iceland, Iceland's established church, elected its first female bishop, Agnes M. Sigurðardóttir, in 2012.\n\nIceland has national women's teams for basketball, handball, volleyball, and the women's national football team which represents Iceland in international women's football.\n\nWomen's football clubs in Iceland include Breiðablik, Grindavík, Haukar, Íþróttabandalag Vestmannaeyja, Knattspyrnufélag Reykjavíkur, Stjarnan, and Valur. The Úrvalsdeild kvenna is the top-tier women's football league in Iceland. It features 10 teams that play a double round robin to decide the champion, which qualifies for a spot in the UEFA Women's Champions League. The 2018 champion was Breiðablik.\n\nThe women's national football team has successfully qualified for and competed in the UEFA Women's Championship's in 2009, 2013, and 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "1352952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1352952", "title": "World Agudath Israel", "text": "World Agudath Israel\n\nWorld Agudath Israel (), usually known as the Aguda, was established in the early twentieth century as the political arm of Ashkenazi Torah Judaism. It succeeded \"Agudas Shlumei Emunei Yisroel\" (Union of Faithful Jewry) in 1912. Its base of support was located in Eastern Europe before the Second World War but, due to the revival of the Hasidic movement, it included Orthodox Jews throughout Europe.\n\nWorld Agudath Israel was established by Jewish religious leaders at a conference held at Kattowitz (Katowice) in 1912. They were concerned that the Tenth World Zionist Congress had defeated a motion by the Torah Nationalists Mizrachi movement for funding religious schools. The aim of World Agudath Israel was to strengthen Orthodox institutions independent of the Zionist movement and Mizrachi organization. The advent of the First World War delayed development of the organisation, however.\n\nDuring the First World War, Rabbi Dr. Pinchas Kohn and Rabbi Dr. Emmanuel Carlebach (both from Germany), were appointed as the rabbinical advisors to the German occupying forces in Poland. In this position, they worked closely with the Grand Rabbi of Ger, Rabbi Avraham Mordechai Alter. As a result of this collaboration, they formed Agudath Israel, whose aim was to unify Eastern European and Western European Orthodox Judaism.\n\nAgudath Israel gained a significant following, particularly among Hasidic Jews. It had representatives running in the Polish elections after the First World War, and they won seats in that country's parliament (Sejm). Among the elected representatives were Alexander Zusia Friedman, Rabbi Meir Shapiro, Rabbi Yosef Nechemya Kornitzer of Kraków, and Rabbi Aharon Lewin of Reysha. \n\nProminent Torah scholars who led Agudath Yisroel included the Gerrer Rebbe, the Radziner Rebbe, Rabbi Mordechai Yosef Elazar Leiner, and the Chafetz Chaim. In Latvia between 1922-1934, members of the Agudath Israel faction, led by Mordechai Dubin, were elected to Saeima (The Parliament). Another prominent member of Agudath Israel was Michoel Ber Weissmandl.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the Agudath Israel movement was represented by the Adath Israel Synagogue, formed in 1909, and the Union of Orthodox Hebrew Congregations, formed in 1926. By 1943 Agudath Israel represented approximately 5000 families and was led by Rabbi Dr Solomon Schonfeld. The British secretary of the Agudath Israel World Organization, the political wing of the movement, was Harry Goodman, publisher and editor of \"Jewish Weekly.\" He played a key part in maintaining the Agudath Israel organization through World War II.\n\nPrior to World War II and the Holocaust, Agudath Israel operated a number of Jewish educational institutions throughout Europe. After the war, it has continued to operate such institutions in the United States as Agudath Israel of America, and in Israel. Agudath Israel is guided by its Moetzes Gedolei HaTorah (Council of Sages) in Israel and the USA.\n\nIn the post-War period, Agudath Israel reached a modus vivendi with the State of Israel, which was predominantly led by secularists. It helped secure an agreement between Ashkenazi Rabbinical leaders and David Ben-Gurion which ensured Ashkenazi rabbinical co-ordination with the state, as well as the implementation of such guarantees as public observance consistent with the laws of the Sabbath and \"Kashrut\". It has established itself as an Israeli political party winning seats in the Knesset either as the Agudat Israel or in coalition with other Orthodox groups running under the name United Torah Judaism.\n\nThe World Agudath Israel Federation holds international conferences and Torah congressional meetings known as a \"Knessia Gedola\".\n\n\n\n"}
