{"id": "18933176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18933176", "title": "Abandonware", "text": "Abandonware\n\nAbandonware is a product, typically software, ignored by its owner and manufacturer, and for which no support is available. Although such software is usually still under copyright, the owner may not be tracking copyright violations.\n\nIn intellectual rights context, abandonware is a software (or hardware) special case of the general concept of \"orphan works\".\n\nDefinitions of \"abandoned\" vary, but in general it is like any item that is abandoned – it is ignored by the owner, and as such product support and possibly copyright enforcement are also \"abandoned\". It can refer to a product that is no longer available for legal purchase, over the age where the product creator feels an obligation to continue to support it, or where operating systems or hardware platforms have evolved to such a degree that the creator feels continued support cannot be financially justified. In such cases, copyright and support issues are often ignored. Software might also be considered abandoned when it can be used only with obsolete technologies, such as pre-Macintosh Apple computers. A difference between \"abandonware\" and a \"discontinued product\" is that the manufacturer has not officially 'discontinued' the software, but only ended their official efforts at technical support.\n\nAbandonware may be computer software or physical devices which are usually computerised in some fashion, such as personal computer games, productivity applications, utility software, or mobile phones.\n\nThe term \"abandonware\" is broad, and encompasses many types of old software.\n\nIf a software product reaches end-of-life and becomes abandonware, users are confronted with several potential problems: missing purchase availability (besides used software) and missing technical support, e.g. compatibility fixes for newer hardware and operating systems. These problems are exacerbated if software is bound (\"dongle\") to physical media with a limited life-expectancy (floppy discs, optical media etc.) and backups are impossible because of copy protection or copyright law. If a software is distributed only in a digital, DRM-locked form or as SaaS, the shutdown of the servers will lead to a public loss of the software. If the software product is without alternative, the missing replacement availability becomes a challenge for continued software usage.\n\nAlso, once a software product has become abandonware for a developer, even historically important software might get lost forever very easily, as numerous cases have shown. One of many examples is the closure of Atari in Sunnyvale, California in 1996, when the original source code of several milestones of video game history (like Asteroids or Centipede) was thrown out as trash.\n\nAlso, the missing availability of software and the associated source code can be a hindrance for software archaeology and research.\n\nAs response to the missing availability of abandonware, people have distributed old software since shortly after the beginning of personal computing, but the activity remained low-key until the advent of the Internet. While trading old games has taken many names and forms, the term \"abandonware\" was coined by Peter Ringering in late 1996. Ringering found classic game websites similar to his own, contacted their webmasters, and formed the original \"Abandonware Ring\" in February 1997. This original webring was little more than a collection of sites linking to adventureclassicgaming.com. Another was a site indexing them all to provide a rudimentary search facility. In October 1997, the Interactive Digital Software Association sent cease and desist letters to all sites within the Abandonware Ring, which led to most shutting down. An unintended consequence (called the Streisand effect in Internet parlance) was that it spurred others to create new abandonware sites and organizations that came to outnumber the original Ring members. Sites formed after the demise of the original Abandonware Ring include Abandonia, Bunny Abandonware and Home of the Underdogs. In later years abandonware websites actively acquired and received permissions from developers and copyright holders (e.g. Jeff Minter, Magnetic Fields or Gremlin Interactive) for legal redistribution of abandoned works, an example is \"World of Spectrum\" who acquired the permission from many developers and successfully retracted a DMCA case.\n\nSeveral websites archive abandonware for download, including old versions of applications which are difficult to find by any other means. Much of this software fits the definition of \"software that is no longer current, but is still of interest\", but the line separating the use and distribution of abandonware from copyright infringement is blurry, and the term \"abandonware\" could be used to distribute software without proper notification of the owner.\n\nThe Internet Archive has created an archive of what it describes as \"vintage software\", as a way to preserve them. The project advocated for an exemption from the United States Digital Millennium Copyright Act to permit them to bypass copy protection, which was approved in 2003 for a period of three years. The exemption was renewed in 2006, and , has been indefinitely extended pending further rulemakings. The Archive does not offer this software for download, as the exemption is solely \"for the purpose of preservation or archival reproduction of published digital works by a library or archive.\" Nevertheless, in 2013 the Internet Archive began to provide antique games as browser-playable emulation via MESS, for instance the Atari 2600 game \"E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial\". Since 23 December 2014 the Internet Archive presents via a browser based DOSBox emulation thousands of archived DOS/PC games for \"scholarship and research purposes only\".\n\nStarting around 2006, The Library of Congress began the long-time preservation of video games with the \"Game canon\" list. In September 2012 the collection had nearly 3,000 games from many platforms and also around 1,500 strategy guides. For instance, the source code of the unreleased PlayStation Portable game was discovered in August 2014 to be preserved at the Library of Congress.\n\nSince around 2009 the International Center for the History of Electronic Games (ICHEG) has taken a five-pronged approach to video game preservation: original software and hardware, marketing materials and publications, production records, play capture, and finally the source code. In December 2013 the ICHEG received a donation of several SSI video games, for instance Computer Bismarck, including the source code for preservation. In 2014 a collection of Brøderbund games and a \"virtually complete\" Atari arcade machine source code and asset collection was added.\n\nIn 2010 Computer History Museum began with the preservation of source code of important software, beginning with Apple's MacPaint 1.3. In 2012 the APL programming language followed. Adobe Systems, Inc. donated the Photoshop 1.0.1 source code to the collection in February 2013. The source code is made available to the public under an own non-commercial license. On March 25, 2014, Microsoft followed with the donation of MS-DOS variants as well as Word for Windows 1.1a under their own license. On October 21, 2014, Xerox Alto's source code and other resources followed.\n\nIn 2012 a group of European museums and organizations started the \"European Federation of Game Archives, Museums and Preservation Projects\" (EFGAMP) to join forces to \"Preserve Gaming Legacy\". Also in Japan video game software archival happens since several years.\n\nIn 2012 the MOMA started with archiving video games and explicitly tries to get the source code of them.\n\nThere are also some cases in which the source code of games was given to a fan community for long-time preservation, e.g. several titles of the \"Wing Commander\" video game series or Ultima 9 of the Ultima series. In 2008 a hard-drive with all Infocom video game source code appeared from an anonymous source and was archived additionally by the Internet Archive.\n\nIn response to the missing software support, sometimes the software's user community begins to provide support (bug fixes, compatibility adaptions etc.) even without available source code, internal software documentation and original developer tools. Methods are debugging, reverse engineering of file and data formats, and hacking the binary executables. Often the results are distributed as unofficial patches. Notable examples are \"Fallout 2\", \"\" or even Windows 98. For instance in 2012, when the multiplayer game \"\" became unsupported abandonware as the official multiplayer server and support was shut down, the game community itself took over with a self-developed multiplayer server and client.\n\nWith the new possibility of digital distribution arising in mid-2000, the commercial distribution for many old titles became feasible again as deployment and storage costs dropped significantly. A digital distributor specialized in bringing old games out of abandonware is \"GOG.com\" (formerly called \"Good Old Games\") who started in 2008 to search for copyright holders of classic games to release them legally and DRM-free again. For instance, on December 9, 2013 the real-time strategy video game \"\" was, after ten years of non-availability, re-released by gog.com, also including the source code.\n\nProponents of abandonware preservation argue that it is more ethical to make copies of such software than new software that still sells. Those ignorant of copyright law have incorrectly taken this to mean that abandonware is legal to distribute, although no software written since 1964 is old enough for copyright to have expired in the US. Even in cases where the original company no longer exists, the rights usually belong to someone else, though no one may be able to trace actual ownership, including the owners themselves.\n\nAbandonware advocates also frequently cite historical preservation as a reason for trading abandoned software. Older computer media are fragile and prone to rapid deterioration, necessitating transfer of these materials to more modern, stable media and generation of many copies to ensure the software will not simply disappear. Users of still-functional older computer systems argue for the need of abandonware because re-release of software by copyright holders will most likely target modern systems or incompatible media instead, preventing legal purchase of compatible software.\n\nThose who oppose these practices argue that distribution denies the copyright holder potential sales, in the form of re-released titles, official emulation, and so on. Likewise, they argue that if people can acquire an old version of a program for free, they may be less likely to purchase a newer version if the old version meets their needs.\n\nSome game developers showed sympathy for abandonware websites as they preserve their classical game titles.\n\nIn most cases, software classed as abandonware is not in the public domain, as it has never had its original copyright officially revoked and some company or individual may still own rights. While sharing of such software is usually considered copyright infringement, in practice copyright holders rarely enforce their abandonware copyrights for a number of reasons – chiefly among which the software is technologically obsolete and therefore has no commercial value, therefore rendering copyright enforcement a pointless enterprise. By default, this may allow the product to de facto lapse into the public domain to such an extent that enforcement becomes impractical.\n\nRarely has any abandonware case gone to court, but it is still unlawful to distribute copies of old copyrighted software and games, with or without compensation, in any Berne Convention signatory country.\n\nOld copyrights are usually left undefended. This can be due to intentional non-enforcement by owners due to software age or obsolescence, but sometimes results from a corporate copyright holder going out of business without explicitly transferring ownership, leaving no one aware of the right to defend the copyright.\n\nEven if the copyright is not defended, copying of such software is still unlawful in most jurisdictions when a copyright is still in effect. Abandonware changes hands on the assumption that the resources required to enforce copyrights outweigh benefits a copyright holder might realize from selling software licenses. Additionally, abandonware proponents argue that distributing software for which there is no one to defend the copyright is morally acceptable, even where unsupported by current law. Companies that have gone out of business without transferring their copyrights are an example of this; many hardware and software companies that developed older systems are long since out of business and precise documentation of the copyrights may not be readily available.\n\nOften the availability of abandonware on the Internet is related to the willingness of copyright holders to defend their copyrights. For example, unencumbered games for Colecovision are markedly easier to find on the Internet than unencumbered games for Mattel Intellivision in large part because there is still a company that sells Intellivision games while no such company exists for the Colecovision.\n\nThe Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) can be a problem for the preservation of old software as it prohibits required techniques. In October 2003, the US Congress passed 4 clauses to the DMCA which allow for reverse engineering software in case of preservation. \n\nIn November 2006 the Library of Congress approved an exemption to the DMCA that permits the cracking of copy protection on software no longer being sold or supported by its copyright holder so that they can be archived and preserved without fear of retribution.\n\nCurrently, US copyright law does not recognize the term or concept of \"abandonware\" while the general concept \"orphan works\" is recognized (see Orphan works in the United States). There is a long-held concept of abandonment in trademark law as a direct result of the infinite term of trademark protection. Currently, a copyright can be released into the public domain if the owner clearly does so in writing; however this formal process is not considered abandoning, but rather releasing. Those who do not own a copyright cannot merely claim the copyright abandoned and start using protected works without permission of the copyright holder, who could then seek legal remedy.\n\nHosting and distributing copyrighted software without permission is illegal. Copyright holders, sometimes through the Entertainment Software Association, send cease and desist letters, and some sites have shut down or removed infringing software as a result. However, most of the Association's efforts are devoted to new games, due to those titles possessing the greatest value.\n\nHowever, the original copyright holder may be barred from bringing a court action, via a civil doctrine known as laches, which requires litigants to bring a viable civil action within a reasonable amount of time.\n\nIn the EU in 2012 an \"Orphan Works Directive\" (Directive 2012/28/EU) was constituted and is transferred into the member's laws. While the terminology has ambiguities regarding software and especially video games, some scholars argue that abandonware software video games fall under the definition of \"audiovisual works\" mentioned there.\n\nOnce the copyright on a piece of software has expired, it automatically falls into public domain. Such software can be legally distributed without restrictions. However, due to the length of copyright terms in most countries, this has yet to happen for most software. All countries that observe the Berne Convention enforce copyright ownership for at least 50 years after publication or the author's death. However, individual countries may choose to enforce copyrights for longer periods. In the United States, copyright durations are determined based on authorship. For most published works, the duration is 70 years after the author's death. However, for anonymous works, works published under a pseudonym or works made for hire, the duration is 120 years after publication. In France, copyright durations are 70 years after the relevant date (date of author's death or publication) for either class.\n\nHowever, because of the length of copyright enforcement in most countries, it is likely that by the time a piece of software defaults to public domain, it will have long become obsolete, irrelevant, or incompatible with any existing hardware. Additionally, due to the relatively short commercial, as well as physical, lifespans of most digital media, it is entirely possible that by the time the copyright expires for a piece of software, it will no longer exist in any form. However, since the largest risk in dealing with abandonware is that of distribution, this may be mitigated somewhat by private users (or organizations such as the Internet Archive) making private copies of such software, which would then be legally redistributable at the time of copyright expiry.\n\nThere are alternatives for companies with a software product which faces the end-of-life instead of abandoning the software in an unsupported state.\n\nSometimes user-communities convince companies to voluntarily relinquish copyright on software, putting it into the public domain, or re-license it as free software or as freeware. Transfer of public domain or freely licensed software is perfectly legal, distinguishing it from abandonware which still has full copyright restrictions.\n\nAmstrad is an example which supports emulation and free distribution of CPC and ZX Spectrum hardware ROMs and software. Borland is another example for a company who released \"antique software\" as freeware. Smith Engineering permits not-for-profit reproduction and distribution of Vectrex games and documentation.\n\nThere are groups that lobby companies to release their software as freeware. These efforts have met with mixed results. One example is the library of educational titles released by MECC. MECC was sold to Brøderbund, which was sold to The Learning Company. When TLC was contacted about releasing classic MECC titles as freeware, the documentation proving that TLC held the rights to these titles could not be located, and therefore the rights for these titles are \"in limbo\" and may never be legally released. That the copyright situation of vintage out-of-print software is lost or unclear is not uncommon.\n\nThe problem of missing technical support for a software can be most effectively solved when the source code becomes available. Therefore, several companies decided to release the source code specifically to allow the user communities to provide further technical software support (bug fixes, compatibility adaptions etc.) themselves, e.g. by community patches or source ports to new computing platforms. For instance, in December 2015 Microsoft released the Windows Live Writer source code to allow the community to continue the support.\n\nId Software and 3D Realms are early proponents in this practice, releasing the source code for the game engines of some older titles under a free software license (but not the actual game content, such as levels or textures). Also Falcon 4.0's lead designer Kevin Klemmick argued in 2011 that availability of the source code of his software for the community was a good thing: \n\nThe chilling effect of drawing a possible lawsuit can discourage release of source code. Efforts to persuade IBM to release OS/2 as open source software were ignored since some of the code was co-developed by Microsoft.\n\nNevertheless, several notable examples of successfully opened commercial software exist, for instance, the web browser Netscape Communicator, which was released by Netscape Communications on March 31, 1998. The development was continued under the umbrella of the Mozilla Foundation and Netscape Communicator became the basis of several browsers, such as Mozilla Firefox.\n\nAnother important example for open sourced general software is the office suite StarOffice which was released by Sun Microsystems in October 2000 as OpenOffice.org and is in continued development as LibreOffice and Apache OpenOffice.\n\nThere are also many examples in the video game domain: Revolution Software released their game \"Beneath a Steel Sky\" as freeware and gave the engine's source code to the authors of ScummVM to add support for the game. Other examples are \"Myth II\", \"Call to Power II\" and Microsoft's \"Allegiance\" which were released to allow the community to continue the support.\n\n"}
{"id": "4343823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4343823", "title": "Abatement in pleading", "text": "Abatement in pleading\n\nAt common law an abatement in pleading or plea in abatement, was a defence to legal proceedings, which did not contest the principle of the plaintiff's right to relief, but contended that the plaintiff had made a procedural error, and needed to bring fresh proceedings, which followed the correct procedure. The objection could deal with (among others) place, time, or method of assertion. The plea in abatement was abolished as a particular form of response by the defendant when common-law pleading was replaced by Code Pleading and later by pleading rules, such as the federal Rules of Civil Procedure.\n\nSuccessful assertion of pleas in abatement merely pause proceedings until the problem is remedied. There were two fundamental styles of abatement. The first was abatement in proceedings which would merely suspend the proceeding until the error was fixed. Abatement in law would terminate it completely, although it could be restarted at the plaintiff's request. The second term is more common. It has now been abolished in most if not all common law jurisdictions.\n\n"}
{"id": "3871309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3871309", "title": "Administrative guidance", "text": "Administrative guidance\n\nAdministrative guidance is non-binding advice given by an administrative agency to the public regarding how best to comply with a particular law or regulation. It may also be referred to by terms such as \"advice\" or \"recommendation.\" \nGuidance is often used to explain the objective or interpretation of a vague or nonspecific law or requirement.\n\nWhile guidance documents are not usually enforceable rules or requirements by themselves, they often define standards or expectations which are part of a rule or requirement. For example, a regulation might require adequate testing for relevant microorganisms in sterile containers and a guidance document would be used to explain what testing is adequate and which organisms are relevant.\n\nGuidance documents are also used to explain internal policies or practices to simplify an organization's interactions with other parties. For example, a guidance document could explain how to prepare a report or what information should be gathered before submitting a complaint.\n\n is a Japanese government practice defined under Article 2 of the Administrative Procedure Act of 1993 as \"guidance, recommendations, advice, or other acts by which an Administrative Organ may seek, within the scope of its duties or affairs under its jurisdiction, certain action or inaction on the part of specified persons in order to realize administrative aims, where such acts are not Dispositions.\"\n\nHistorically, the government of Japan employed this practice in imposing its policies on individuals and organizations, implying poorer treatment for those who failed to comply with its non-binding advice.\n\nThe Act of 1993 was the first statute to specifically regulate the practice of administrative guidance. Under the Act:\n\n\nIn United States law, although administrative guidance is not generally binding on the public as a whole, it may serve as persuasive authority regarding the correct interpretation of the law. Additionally, if guidance has been voluntarily sought by a member of the public, it may be binding on the person who sought it.\n\nIn the United States, guidance documents published by federal agencies are required to follow a set of requirements to ensure that the documents they publish are useful and accurate. These rules are referred to as \"good guidance practice\" (GGP) and require specific controls. For example, agencies have to ask for public comment before publishing major guidance documents, similar to the requirements for new rules and regulations.\n\n"}
{"id": "8490989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8490989", "title": "Allied Forces Act 1940", "text": "Allied Forces Act 1940\n\nThe Allied Forces Act 1940 (3 & 4 Geo. VI c. 51) was an Act of Parliament of the Parliament of the United Kingdom passed in late 1940, after the fall of France.\n\nThe Act gave legal authority for the recognised sovereign governments of Belgium, Czechoslovakia, the Netherlands, Norway and Poland – all countries then under German occupation – to raise, equip and maintain independent armed forces on British soil. A sixth country, France, was provided for by authorising the activity of the Free French forces under General de Gaulle. The forces would be fully independent, under their own operational command and military law, though in practice it was expected that the British high command would direct general strategy and control joint operations. The Act would later be extended to cover Luxembourg, Greece and Yugoslavia.\n\nIt allowed these nations to remain active and independent allies in the war, rather than simply providing manpower and moral support to the United Kingdom and the remainder of the British Empire.\n\nAfter the Act was passed, national units were quickly formed or reconstituted; by late October, the size of the Allied contingents serving with Home Forces were given as 18,000 Poles, 15,000 Norwegians and 3,000 Czechs, as well as around 3,000 Belgian, Dutch and French soldiers, as well as a large number of naval and air-force personnel.\n"}
{"id": "12935920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12935920", "title": "Arsalyn Program", "text": "Arsalyn Program\n\nThe Arsalyn Program of Ludwick Family Foundation (formerly Arsalyn Foundation) is a small 501(c)(3) non-profit foundation in the United States headquartered in Glendora, California. It is dedicated to increasing youth civic engagement. It is categorized under Voter Education/Registration programs\n\nArsalyn Program's mission statement:\nThe Arsalyn Program of Ludwick Family Foundation was created to encourage young Americans to become informed and active participants in the electoral process. The Arsalyn Program views the civic and political engagement of young people as beneficial to country, community and character. The Arsalyn Program is firmly committed to a non-partisan, non-issue-based and inclusive approach to ensure that voting become a lifetime commitment on the part of our nation's young adults.\nArsalyn Foundation hosts a variety of events, including town halls in Southern California and a national conference in Washington, D.C., with many different speakers. Previous speakers at events have included:\n\n"}
{"id": "57994511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57994511", "title": "Attorney General of the United States Virgin Islands", "text": "Attorney General of the United States Virgin Islands\n\nThe Attorney General of the United States Virgin Islands supervises and directs the Department of Justice. In 1962, the Virgin Islands Department of Law was established as an executive department in the Government of the U.S. Virgin Islands pursuant to the Virgin Islands Code (Title 3, Chapter 8). With the passage of Act No. 5265 in 1987, the department was now referred to as the Virgin Islands Department of Justice. Additionally, the passage of Act No. 5265 placed the Bureau of Corrections under the jurisdiction and administration of the Department of Justice—remaining there until October 1, 2009. The department has the following divisions:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33903167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33903167", "title": "Bamberg State Library", "text": "Bamberg State Library\n\nThe Bamberg State Library () is a combined universal, regional and research library with priority given to the humanities. Today it is housed in the New Residence, the former prince-bishop's new palace. The Free State of Bavaria is responsible for the library.\n\nThe Bamberg State Library supplies the town of Bamberg and the region Upper Franconia with literature for research and higher education purposes, professional work and advanced training. The historically grown holdings of more than 500,000 volumes are continuously supplemented and enlarged by acquisitions in all general fields, and in specialized areas such as the history and geography of (Upper) Franconia, art history and appreciation, manuscripts and the printed book.\n\nIt cooperates in all areas of librarianship with the University Library of Bamberg.\n\nOne of its regional tasks is to acquire documentary material on and of persons who are connected with the region.\n\nMore over it gets the legal deposit for the region of Upper Franconia; that means the Bamberg State Library receives a copy of every book published in Upper Franconia and continues to compile a complete bibliography of the region.\n\nIt also provides space for book collections belonging to Bamberg institutions such as the Bamberg Historical Society (), the Bamberg Society of Naturalists (), the Bamberg Art Association () the E.-T.-A.-Hoffmann-Gesellschaft and the Bamberg group of the Frankenbund.\n\nIts high esteem to be a research library of international rank is based on its rich manuscripts holdings. This collection may be traced back to the emperor Henry II, who founded the bishopric of Bamberg on November 1, 1007. Three of these manuscripts became part of UNESCO's Memory of the World: \n\n\nThe nucleus of the collection may be traced back to the emperor Henry II, who founded the bishopric of Bamberg in 1007. Among his gifts to the cathedral were many precious manuscripts, which he and his predecessors had collected or commissioned. Manuscripts from various spiritual centres of the Western world were brought to Bamberg as a result. In the ensuing period many books were written and illuminated in the town, notably in the 12th century by the Benedictine monks of the Michaelsberg Abbey.\n\nBamberg was the first place where printed books in the German language were illustrated with woodcuts. Although only fragments of the very first period of printing in Bamberg can be found in the library, the collection of 3,500 incunabula documents the wide range of book production in the 15th century.\n\nAll that remained of these manuscripts and books in the monasteries of the town and bishopric up to 1802/1803 was incorporated into one library (now the Bamberg State Library) during the period of German Mediatisation and merged with the library of the old University of Bamberg, which had been founded in 1648 as a Jesuit academy and was closed at that time. Bamberg became part of the Electorate of Bavaria. In the course of the 19th century the library was enriched by gifts such as Joseph Heller's collection, which today comprises 80,000 prints and drawings. The E. T. A. Hoffmann material became a special collection in our times, as did, more recently, autograph books from the 18th and 19th century.\n\nThe Bamberg State Library nowadays is housed in the east wing of the New Residence of Bamberg which was built in 1697–1703 by Johann Leonhard Dientzenhofer on behalf of Prince-Bishop Lothar Franz von Schönborn. Originally, the administration of the bishopric was placed in that wing of the building.\n\nThe so-called Dominikanerräume are part of the library's showrooms which are not open to public. They are so called because of the bookshelves from Bamberg's Dominican monastery that were brought to the library during the secularisation when the monastery was closed down.\n\nThe Vierzehnheiligenpavillion on the third floor also belongs to the internal showrooms. It was the prince-bishop's library room. Since 1978, the former wine cellar serves as closed access stacks.\nThe library presents in the entrance hall precious stained glass dating from the 16th and 17th centuries. Joseph Heller, an art historian and collector, left them as legacy to the library.\nThe reading room can be reached from the entrance hall. In former times, it served the prince-bishop as audience room and summer room. The reading room provides a view over the rose garden which also was built on behalf of Prince-Bishop Lothar Franz von Schönborn.\nDuring the exhibitions taking place several times a year the Sternengewölbe and the former Gartensaal – or Scagliolasaal – can be visited.\n\n"}
{"id": "25866506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25866506", "title": "Brussels Convention on Assistance and Salvage at Sea", "text": "Brussels Convention on Assistance and Salvage at Sea\n\nThe Brussels Convention for the Unification of Certain Rules with Respect to Assistance and Salvage at Sea () is a treaty on marine salvage that was concluded on 23 September 1910, in Brussels, Belgium.\n\nAs of 2013, the convention remains in force in over 70 states. The states that have denounced the convention after accepting it are Canada, Croatia, Denmark, Germany, Iran, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Spain, and Sweden.\n\nThe Brussels Convention forms the basis of current international marine salvage law. The Convention was amended by a Protocol issued in Brussels on 27 May 1967. However, the Brussels Convention has been overridden in some countries by the 1989 International Convention on Salvage, which took effect in 1996. Some states that have ratified the 1989 Convention have denounced the 1910 Convention.\n\n"}
{"id": "1171036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1171036", "title": "Business judgment rule", "text": "Business judgment rule\n\nThe business judgment rule is a case law-derived doctrine in corporations law that courts defer to the business judgment of corporate executives. It is rooted in the principle that the \"directors of a corporation... are clothed with [the] presumption, which the law accords to them, of being [motivated] in their conduct by a bona fide regard for the interests of the corporation whose affairs the stockholders have committed to their charge\". The rule exists in some form in most common law countries, including the United States, Canada, England and Wales, and Australia.\n\nTo challenge the actions of a corporation's board of directors, a plaintiff assumes \"the burden of providing evidence that directors, in reaching their challenged decision, breached any one of the triads of their fiduciary duty — good faith, loyalty, or due care\". Failing to do so, a plaintiff \"is not entitled to any remedy unless the transaction constitutes waste... [that is,] the exchange was so one-sided that no business person of ordinary, sound judgment could conclude that the corporation has received adequate consideration\".\n\nGiven that the directors cannot ensure corporate success, the business judgment rule specifies that the court will not review the business decisions of directors who performed their duties (1) in good faith; (2) with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would exercise under similar circumstances; and (3) in a manner the directors reasonably believe to be in the best interests of the corporation. As part of their duty of care, directors have a duty not to waste corporate assets by overpaying for property or employment services. The business judgment rule is very difficult to overcome and courts will not interfere with directors unless it is clear that they are guilty of fraud or misappropriation of the corporate funds, etc.\n\nIn effect, the business judgment rule creates a strong presumption in favor of the board of directors of a corporation, freeing its members from possible liability for decisions that result in harm to the corporation. The presumption is that \"in making business decisions not involving direct self-interest or self-dealing, corporate directors act on an informed basis, in good faith, and in the honest belief that their actions are in the corporation's best interest.\" In short, it exists so that a board will not suffer legal action simply from a bad decision. As the Delaware Supreme Court has said, a court \"will not substitute its own notions of what is or is not sound business judgment\" if \"the directors of a corporation acted on an informed basis, in good faith and in the honest belief that the action taken was in the best interests of the company.\"\n\nAlthough a distinct common law concept from duty of care, duty of loyalty is often evaluated by courts in certain cases dealing with violations by the board. While the business judgment rule is historically linked particularly to the duty of care standard of conduct, shareholders who sue the directors often charge both the duty of care and duty of loyalty violations. \n\nThis forced the courts to evaluate duty of care (employing the business judgment rule standard of review) together with duty of loyalty violations that involve self-interest violations (as opposed to gross incompetence with duty of care). Violations of the duty of care are reviewed under a gross negligence standard, as opposed to simple negligence. \n\nConsequently, over time, one of the points of review that has entered the business judgment rule was the prohibition against self-interest transactions. Conflicting interest transactions occur when a director, who has a conflicting interest with respect to a transaction, knows that she or a related person is (1) a party to the transaction; (2) has a beneficial financial interest in, or closely linked to, the transaction that the interest would reasonably be expected to influence the director's judgment if she were to vote on the transaction; or (3) is a director, general partner, agent, or employee of another entity with whom the corporation is transacting business and the transaction is of such importance to the corporation that it would in the normal course of business be brought before the board.\n\nThe following test was constructed in the opinion for \"Grobow v. Perot\", 539 A.2d 180 (Del. 1988), as a guideline for satisfaction of the business judgment rule. Directors in a business should:\n\nUnder the Delaware General Corporation Law, the business judgment rule is the offspring of the fundamental principle, codified in Del. Code Ann. tit. 8, § 141(a), that the business and affairs of a Delaware corporation are managed by or under its board of directors. In carrying out their managerial roles, directors are charged with an unyielding fiduciary duty to the corporation. The rationale for the rule is the recognition by courts that, in the inherently risky environment of business, Boards of Directors need to be free to take risks without a constant fear of lawsuits affecting their judgment.\n\nThe presumption raised by the Business Judgment Rule may be rebutted by the plaintiff. \"The business judgment rule is a presumption that in making a business decision, the directors of a corporation acted on an informed basis, in good faith and in the honest belief that the action taken was in the best interests of the company. Thus, the party attacking a board decision as uninformed must rebut the presumption that its business judgment was an informed one.\" Further, rebuttal typically requires a showing that the defendants violated duty of care or loyalty (with courts assuming director's good faith otherwise). \n\nIf the plaintiff can show that an action should not be protected by the business judgment rule (such as when a director decides to give over a certain percentage of the company's profits to charity (duty of care violation) or lines his/her own pockets with company's money (self-interest/duty of loyalty violation)), then the burden will shift to the defendant to show that the action meets the burden of good faith/rational decision. In many cases, it is relatively easy for a director to find some rational reason for his actions and, with the courts using the business judgment rule, the case will likely be dismissed (U.S. courts disdain getting involved in business matters). All directors must have the option of vetoing the decision.\n\nFrequently, the winning cases for plaintiffs involving the business judgment rule involve acts constituting corporate waste. Also, note that some Board decisions lie outside the business judgment rule. For instance, in the takeover context, courts will apply the more stringent \"Unocal\" test, also called intermediate scrutiny. Illegal decisions are also not protected by the business judgment rule. \n\nOne of the earliest cases, \"Dodge v. Ford Motor Co.\", ruled, for example, that \"courts of equity will not interfere in the management of the directors unless it is clearly made to appear that they are guilty of fraud or misappropriation of the corporate funds, or refuse to declare a dividend when the corporation has a surplus of net profits which it can, without detriment to its business, divide among its stockholders, and when a refusal to do so would amount to such an abuse of discretion as would constitute a fraud, or breach of that good faith which they are bound to exercise towards the stockholders.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33442837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33442837", "title": "Capitol Square Review &amp; Advisory Board v. Pinette", "text": "Capitol Square Review &amp; Advisory Board v. Pinette\n\nCapitol Square Review & Advisory Board v. Pinette, 515 U.S. 753 (1995), is a United States Supreme Court case that focused on First Amendment rights and the Establishment Clause. Vincent Pinette, an active member of the Ku Klux Klan in Columbus, Ohio, wanted to place an unattended cross on the lawn of the Capitol Square during the 1993 Christmas season. Pinette and his fellow members of the KKK submitted their request. The advisory board originally denied this request. However, Pinette and the other members of the Ohio Chapter of the Klan fought this decision in the United States District Court of Southern Ohio. The court found in favor of the Klan and the Advisory Board issued the permit. The Board appealed to the United States Court of Appeals, which affirmed the decision of the district court. The board made one last petition to the Supreme Court where the decision was made, by a vote of seven to two, that the Klan was permitted to display the cross at the public forum.\n\nThe land in question was the Capitol Square in Columbus, Ohio. The ten acre area had always been \"available for discussion of public questions and for public activities an advisory board was responsible for regulating public access to the square, and to use the square a group simply had to submit an application to the board and meet several criteria that were neutral as to the speech content of the proposed use.\" In the past, the advisory board approved displays had included Christmas trees, menorahs, and various other religious-based decorations.\n\nBeneath the surface, there was an issue that was more worrisome than the religious implications of the cross itself. The cross's association with the Ku Klux Klan was a concern to the State of Ohio. In 1993, racial tensions between whites and blacks in the United States were high. There were race riots in Los Angeles, the KKK had several active chapters across the country, and the United States was struggled to maintain equality and peace for all citizens. These underlying tensions accounted for much of the conflict in Capitol Square. Allowing the Ku Klux Klan to erect one of their white crosses on the lawn of the Statehouse in Ohio went much deeper than religion. However, as recognized by the Justices, \"the facts before us and the opinions address only the Establishment Clause issue, and that is the sole question before us to decide.\" The Advisory Board could do nothing to prevent the Klan from displaying their cross on state-owned land.\n\nThe case surrounded the issue of the interpretation of both the First Amendment and the Establishment Clause in the United States Constitution. The Capitol Square in Columbus, Ohio was a state-owned piece of land and any and all unattended displays had to be approved by the Advisory Board. However, over the years the area had become a public forum where people were permitted to hold public gatherings and leave unattended displays that were both secular and religious in nature. \nThe job of the Advisory Board was to issue permits and regulate the content of the displays that took place in the Square. They were to make their decisions within the bounds of the First Amendment and the Establishment Clause. The Establishment Clause states that Congress cannot make a law \"respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof,\" so the Board had to follow the same protocol in their decisions as well. The Board denied the Ku Klux Klan's permit request \"on the grounds that the permit would violate the Establishment Clause,\" on the same day that they approved the display of a menorah on the square. Pinette and the other Klansmen appealed this decision.\n\nJustice Antonin Scalia delivered the majority opinion of the court on June 22, 1995. He was joined by Justice Anthony Kennedy, Justice Stephen Breyer, and Chief Justice William Rehnquist. The court held that:\n\n\nTraditionally, the square had been recognized as a public forum by the general population and because the display of religion was purely private it could not violate the Establishment Clause.\nThe Advisory Board was still responsible for the content displayed on the square, but they could not intentionally block a religious display from being set up.\n\n\nStevens felt that the situation violated the establishment clause under the Endorsement Test. Even though Capitol Square in Ohio had turned into a public forum and it had allowed other various private groups to place unattended displays on the property, that did not prove that it was not in violation of the Establishment Clause. Stevens wanted to strengthen the separation of church and state. \n\nCapital Square Review v. Pinette is an important case because of its relationship to the various other cases dealing with the Establishment Clause and the First Amendment. \nCases such as \"Lemon v. Kurtzman\", \"Lynch v. Donnelly\", and \"County of Allegheny v. ACLU\" are similarly themed situations. All of these cases showcase the Supreme Court's unclear stance on issues involving the First Amendment and the Establishment Clause.\n\n\nAll of these court cases, along with the numerous others, show that American courts have not articulated a consistent, clear rule explaining the government's relationship to religious expression, particularly if that expression occurs in government-supported settings. The Supreme Court is still searching for a consistent rationale for deciding cases in which the First Amendment's speech and establishment clauses intersect.\n\n"}
{"id": "54227240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54227240", "title": "Chinese Laws on Religious Activities", "text": "Chinese Laws on Religious Activities\n\nThe People's Republic of China is an officially atheist state, which while having freedom of religion as a principle nominally enshrined with the laws and constitution of the country, nevertheless possesses a number of laws that restrict religious activities within China.\n\nThis article details the various pieces of legislation governing religious activities in China. For a more detailed look at the topic of freedom of religion in China, see article: Religious freedom in China.\n\nArticle 36 of the Chinese constitution explicitly deals with religious affairs. It states:\n\n\"The People's Republic of China has freedom of faith and religion\n\nNo state organization, social group or individual may force a citizen to accept or not to accept a religious faith, nor can they discriminate against either religious or non-religious citizens.\n\nThe state protects normal religious activities. No one may use religion to make an attack on the order of society, harm the physical health of citizens, or impede the activities of the state's education system.\n\nReligious groups and religious affairs shall not be subject to the power of foreign domination.\" \n\nBanning discrimination against religious citizens in China is usually not interpreted to mean that positions in the government or military are equally open to believers in religions. Communist party membership is often a prerequisite for many government or military positions, and the communist party will frequently not allow religious believers to be members on account of their religious beliefs.\n\n'Normal religious activities' is interpreted to mean religious activities carried out by religious bodies that have official government approval. Religions that are not legally permitted to exist in China, like the Falun Gong or Jehovah's witnesses are not protected by the constitution. Religious groups that are not registered by the government, like Catholics who are part of an underground church or protestant house churches, are not protected by the constitution. Furthermore, religious activities by approved groups that do not conform to the many regulations governing religion in China are also not protected by the constitution.\n\n'impede the activities of the state's education system' is usually interpreted to mean that educational institutions in China are not permitted to teach religion to students. What this means is that religion can be taught as a subject, but actual religious teaching (ie. teaching that is intended to help a person to follow a particular religious faith) is considered to be a form of 'impeding the activities of the state's education system' and as such, it is banned by the constitution.\n\n'the power of foreign domination' is usually interpreted to mean that religious bodies in China may not be under the control of foreigners. For example, Roman Catholics may not be under the control of the Pope and the bishops of China must not be subject to the Vatican.\n\nIn 2004, the Chinese government issued a detailed set of regulations governing religious activities in China. These regulations replaced a previous set of regulations from 1994.\n\nThe regulations required that religious sites, religious ministers, religious schools, religious publications and collective religious activities in general needed government registration or approval, and the regulations set out the procedures by which registration or permissions were to be given. Most of these activities or items were placed under the supervision of religious affairs departments at different levels of the Chinese government and religious bodies in China were obligated to accept government supervision from these departments.\n\nThe regulations also gave a number of protections to religions in China. For example, it banned Chinese citizens from going to approved religious sites with the purpose of disrupting religious activities or of trying to spread atheism. It also guaranteed the lawful rights of believers in carrying out religious activities within approved religious sites.\n\nOne of the key parts of the document is chapter 3, governing 'religious activity centres'. In article 12, it states:\n\n\"Article 12 – Collective religious activities of believing citizens, in general should be held in the registered religious activity centre (Buddhist temple, Taoist temple, mosque, church and other fixed religious activity centres), under the management of the religious activity centre or the religious organization, conducted by the religious ministers or others who meet the relevant rules of the religion, and done in accordance with the religious creeds and canons.\"\n\nWhile the text of the document itself places no explicit universal ban on religious activities from taking place outside of approved religious sites, these regulations are usually interpreted to mean that religious activities involving a large number of people are not allowed to be conducted outside of an approved religious site. There is no definition given as to how many people constitute a 'collective religious activity', however, the regulations in article 6 state:\n\n\"Article 6 - The establishment, alteration or cancellation of religious groups shall be handled in accordance with the «Regulations on Administration and Registration of Social Groups»\n\nThe statutes of religious groups should conform with the relevant rules of the «Regulations on Administration and Registration of Social Groups».\n\nReligious groups that conduct activities in accordance with the statutes, are protected by the law.\"\n\nThe 'Regulations on Administration and Registration of Social Groups' (社会团体登记管理条例) are a group of regulations from 1998 governing the registration of any social group (whether religious or not) within China, and those regulations themselves state that a minimum of 50 persons is required in order to make the application to become a registered group.\n\nThese regulations concerning religious sites in China are usually interpreted to mean that things like house churches or other similar sites where believers of a particular religion congregate in large numbers on a regular basis to conduct religious services or religious activities, are not permitted to legally exist.\n\nThings that involve tiny numbers of believers, like religious believers who read scriptures or pray at home, are usually not interpreted to be banned by these regulations. Similarly, the burning of joss paper, a traditional Chinese religious practice wherein people will burn fake paper money or similar things as a ritual offering to dead ancestors or Taoist gods, is actually widely practiced in the open public in China (literally on the city streets themselves), but these laws are usually not interpreted to forbid this.\n\nThese rules from 1994 are rules governing the religious activities of foreigners within China. The rules protect the rights of foreigners in China to attend religious services or participate in religious activities at approved religious sites. The rules even allow for foreigners to engage in religious preaching or teaching within approved religious sites, so long as they do so with the permission of the approved Chinese religious group.\n\nHowever, these rules also place a number of restrictions on foreigners in China. They do not allow for foreigners to engage in missionary activities, such as ordaining new religious ministers or converting Chinese citizens to their religion.\n\nForeign missionaries who come to China are permitted to carry out preaching or religious services within approved religious sites, by these rules, so long as they have the permission of the Chinese religious group, however, outside of the approved religious sites, they are not permitted to carry out most kinds of missionary activities. They can be a religious 'presence', but they cannot engage in preaching in the open public.\n\n(see \n\nIn 2000, the Chinese government issued guidelines regarding the rules for the religious activities of foreigners. These guidelines reiterated, clarified and expanded many of the things from the previous rules. Included among the things mentioned were such things like the explicit banning of foreigners from making religious publications in China, banning foreigners from spreading religious materials in China, banning foreigners from running religious training classes and requiring foreign religious ministers (other than visitors) that preach at Chinese religious sites to be registered with the government.\n\nThese instructions provided guidelines for how relations between foreigners and Chinese should occur in the religious sphere, such as rules regarding foreign teachers hired by Chinese religious schools, rules regarding Chinese ministers that give religious rites to foreigners or rules regarding foreign students that study at Chinese religious schools.\n\nThe rules once again allowed for foreigners to take part or engage in religious activities at approved religious sites, including preaching or teaching, so long as the relevant rules and guidelines were followed. It once again also did not allow for foreigners to convert Chinese citizens or ordain Chinese citizens as religious ministers.\n\nThese rules from 2006 simply detail the procedures used in order to register religious ministers in China. Religious ministers who do not conform to these procedures are not permitted to serve in Chinese religious bodies.\n"}
{"id": "76381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=76381", "title": "Civil procedure", "text": "Civil procedure\n\nCivil procedure is the body of law that sets out the rules and standards that courts follow when adjudicating civil lawsuits (as opposed to procedures in criminal law matters). These rules govern how a lawsuit or case may be commenced; what kind of service of process (if any) is required; the types of pleadings or statements of case, motions or applications, and orders allowed in civil cases; the timing and manner of depositions and discovery or disclosure; the conduct of trials; the process for judgment; various available remedies; and how the courts and clerks must function.\n\nSome systems, including the English and French, allow governmental persons to bring a criminal prosecution against another person. Prosecutions are nearly always started by the state in order to punish the accused. Civil actions, on the other hand, are started by private individuals, companies or organizations, for their own benefit. In addition, governments (or their subdivisions or agencies) may also be parties to civil actions. The cases are usually in different courts. However this is distinguished from civil penal actions.\n\nIn jurisdictions based on English common-law systems, the party bringing a criminal charge (in most cases, the state) is called the \"prosecution\", but the party bringing most forms of civil action is the \"plaintiff\" or \"claimant\". In both kinds of action the other party is known as the \"defendant\". A criminal case against a person called Ms. Sanchez would be described as “The People v. (= \"versus\", \"against\" or \"and\") Sanchez,” \"The State (or Commonwealth) v. Sanchez\" or \"[The name of the State] v. Sanchez\" in the United States and “R. (Regina, that is, the Queen) v. Sanchez” in England and Wales. But a civil action between Ms. Sanchez and a Mr. Smith would be “Sanchez v. Smith” if it were started by Sanchez, and “Smith v. Sanchez” if it were started by Mr. Smith (though the order of parties' names can change if the case is appealed).\n\nMost countries make a clear distinction between civil and criminal procedure. For example, a criminal court may force a convicted defendant to pay a fine as punishment for his crime, and the legal costs of both the prosecution and defence. But the victim of the crime generally pursues his claim for compensation in a civil, not a criminal, action. In France and England, however, a victim of a crime may incidentally be awarded compensation by a criminal court judge.\n\nEvidence from a criminal trial is generally admissible as evidence in a civil action about the same matter. For example, the victim of a road accident does not directly benefit if the driver who injured him is found guilty of the crime of careless driving. He still has to prove his case in a civil action, unless the doctrine of collateral estoppel applies, as it does in most American jurisdictions. In fact he may be able to prove his civil case even when the driver is found not guilty in the criminal trial, because the standard to determine guilt is higher than the standard to determine fault. However, if a driver is found by a civil jury not to have been negligent, a prosecutor may be estopped from charging him criminally.\n\nIf the plaintiff has shown that the defendant is liable, the main remedy in a civil court is the amount of money, or \"damages\", which the defendant should pay to the plaintiff. Alternative civil remedies include restitution or transfer of property, or an injunction to restrain or order certain actions.\n\nThe standards of proof are higher in a criminal case than in a civil one, since the state does not wish to risk punishing an innocent person. In English law the prosecution must prove the guilt of a criminal “beyond reasonable doubt”; but the plaintiff in a civil action is required to prove his case “on the balance of probabilities”. Thus, in a criminal case a crime cannot be proven if the person or persons judging it doubt the guilt of the suspect and have a reason (not just a feeling or intuition) for this doubt. But in a civil case, the court will weigh all the evidence and decide what is most probable.\n\nCivil procedure is traditionally divided into inquisitorial and adversarial.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1310579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1310579", "title": "Collateralized debt obligation", "text": "Collateralized debt obligation\n\nA collateralized debt obligation (CDO) is a type of structured asset-backed security (ABS). Originally developed as instruments for the corporate debt markets, after 2002 CDOs became vehicles for refinancing mortgage-backed securities (MBS). Like other private label securities backed by assets, a CDO can be thought of as a promise to pay investors in a prescribed sequence, based on the cash flow the CDO collects from the pool of bonds or other assets it owns. Distinctively, CDO credit risk is typically assessed based on a PD derived from ratings on those bonds or assets. The CDO is \"sliced\" into \"tranches\", which \"catch\" the cash flow of interest and principal payments in sequence based on seniority. If some loans default and the cash collected by the CDO is insufficient to pay all of its investors, those in the lowest, most \"junior\" tranches suffer losses first. The last to lose payment from default are the safest, most senior tranches. Consequently, coupon payments (and interest rates) vary by tranche with the safest/most senior tranches receiving the lowest rates and the lowest tranches receiving the highest rates to compensate for higher default risk. As an example, a CDO might issue the following tranches in order of safeness: Senior AAA (sometimes known as \"super senior\"); Junior AAA; AA; A; BBB; Residual.\n\nSeparate special purpose entities—rather than the parent investment bank—issue the CDOs and pay interest to investors. As CDOs developed, some sponsors repackaged tranches into yet another iteration, known as \"CDO-Squared\", \"CDOs of CDOs\" or \"synthetic CDOs\".\n\nIn the early 2000s, the debt underpinning CDOs was generally diversified, but by 2006–2007—when the CDO market grew to hundreds of billions of dollars—this had changed. CDO collateral became dominated by high risk (BBB or A) tranches recycled from other asset-backed securities, whose assets were usually subprime mortgages. These CDOs have been called \"the engine that powered the mortgage supply chain\" for subprime mortgages, and are credited with giving lenders greater incentive to make subprime loans, leading to the 2007-2009 subprime mortgage crisis.\n\nIn 1970, the US government backed mortgage guarantor Ginnie Mae created the first MBS (mortgage-backed security), based on FHA and VA mortgages. It guaranteed these MBSs. This would be the precursor to CDOs that would be created two decades later. In 1971, Freddie Mac issued its first Mortgage Participation Certificate . This was the first mortgage-backed security made of ordinary mortgages. All through the 1970s, private companies began mortgage asset securitization by creating private mortgage pools.\n\nIn 1974, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act in USA imposed heavy sanctions for financial institutions found guilty of discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, or age This led to a more open policy of giving loans (sometimes subprime) by banks, guaranteed in most cases by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. In 1977, the Community Reinvestment Act was enacted to address historical discrimination in lending, such as 'redlining'. The Act encouraged commercial banks and savings associations (Savings and loan banks) to meet the needs of borrowers in all segments of their communities, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods (who might earlier have been thought of as too risky for home loans).\n\nIn 1977, the investment bank Salomon Brothers created a \"private label\" MBS (mortgage backed security) - one that did not involve GSE mortgages. However, it failed in the marketplace. Subsequently, Lewis Ranieri (Salomon) and Larry Fink (First Boston) invented the idea of securitization; different mortgages were pooled together and this pool was then sliced into tranches, each of which was then sold separately to different investors. Many of these tranches were in turn bundled together, earning them the name CDO (Collateralised debt obligation). \n\nThe first CDOs to be issued by a private bank were seen in 1987 by the bankers at the now-defunct Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. for the also now-defunct Imperial Savings Association. During the 1990s the collateral of CDOs was generally corporate and emerging market bonds and bank loans. After 1998 \"multi-sector\" CDOs were developed by Prudential Securities, but CDOs remained fairly obscure until after 2000. In 2002 and 2003 CDOs had a setback when rating agencies \"were forced to downgrade hundreds\" of the securities, but sales of CDOs grew—from $69 billion in 2000 to around $500 billion in 2006. From 2004 through 2007, $1.4 trillion worth of CDOs were issued.\n\nEarly CDOs were diversified, and might include everything from aircraft lease-equipment debt, manufactured housing loans, to student loans and credit card debt. The diversification of borrowers in these \"multisector CDOs\" was a selling point, as it meant that if there was a downturn in one industry like aircraft manufacturing and their loans defaulted, other industries like manufactured housing might be unaffected. Another selling point was that CDOs offered returns that were sometimes 2-3 percentage points higher than corporate bonds with the same credit rating.\n\n\nAround 2005, as the CDO market continued to grow, subprime mortgages began to replace the diversified consumer loans as collateral. By 2004, mortgage-backed securities accounted for more than half of the collateral in CDOs. According to the \"Financial Crisis Inquiry Report\", \"the CDO became the engine that powered the mortgage supply chain\", promoting an increase in demand for mortgage-backed securities without which lenders would have \"had less reason to push so hard to make\" non-prime loans. CDOs not only bought crucial tranches of subprime mortgage-backed securities, they provided cash for the initial funding of the securities. Between 2003 and 2007, Wall Street issued almost $700 billion in CDOs that included mortgage-backed securities as collateral. \nDespite this loss of diversification, CDO tranches were given the same proportion of high ratings by rating agencies on the grounds that mortgages were diversified by region and so \"uncorrelated\"—though those ratings were lowered after mortgage holders began to default.\n\nThe rise of \"ratings arbitrage\"—i.e., pooling low-rated tranches to make CDOs—helped push sales of CDOs to about $500 billion in 2006, with a global CDO market of over US$1.5 trillion. CDO was the fastest-growing sector of the structured finance market between 2003 and 2006; the number of CDO tranches issued in 2006 (9,278) was almost twice the number of tranches issued in 2005 (4,706).\n\nCDOs, like mortgage-backed securities, were financed with debt, enhancing their profits but also enhancing losses if the market reversed course.\n\nSubprime mortgages had been financed by mortgage-backed securities (MBS). Like CDOs, MBSs were structured into tranches, but issuers of the securities had difficulty selling the more lower level/lower-rated \"mezzanine\" tranches—the tranches rated somewhere from AA to BB.\nBecause most traditional mortgage investors are risk-averse, either because of the restrictions of their investment charters or business practices, they are interested in buying the higher-rated segments of the loan stack; as a result, those slices are easiest to sell. The more challenging task is finding buyers for the riskier pieces of at the bottom of the pile. The way mortgage securities are structured, if you cannot find buyers for the lower-rated slices, the rest of the pool cannot be sold.\n\nTo deal with the problem investment bankers \"recycled\" the mezzanine tranches, selling them to underwriters making more structured securities—CDOs. Though the pool that made up the CDO collateral might be overwhelmingly mezzanine tranches, most of the tranches (70 to 80%)\nof the CDO were rated not BBB, A-, etc., but triple A. The minority of the tranches that were mezzanine were often bought up by other CDOs, concentrating the lower rated tranches still further. (See the chart on \"The Theory of How the Financial System Created AAA-rated Assets out of Subprime Mortgages\".)\n\nAs one journalist (Gretchen Morgenson) put it, CDOs became \"the perfect dumping ground for the low-rated slices Wall Street couldn't sell on its own.\"\n\nOther factors explaining the popularity of CDOs include:\n\nIn the summer of 2006, the Case-Shiller index of house prices peaked. In California, home prices had more than doubled since 2000 and median house prices in Los Angeles had risen to ten times the median annual income. To entice those with low and moderate income to sign up for mortgages, down payments, income documentation were often dispensed with and interest and principal payments were often deferred upon request. Journalist Michael Lewis gave as an example of unsustainable underwriting practices a loan in Bakersfield, California, where \"a Mexican strawberry picker with an income of $14,000 and no English was lent every penny he needed to buy a house of $724,000\". As two-year \"teaser\" mortgage rates—common with those that made home purchases like this possible—expired, mortgage payments skyrocketed. Refinancing to lower mortgage payment was no longer available since it depended on rising home prices. Mezzanine tranches started to lose value in 2007, by mid year AA tranches were worth only 70 cents on the dollar. By October triple-A tranches had started to fall. Regional diversification notwithstanding, the mortgage backed securities turned out to be highly correlated.\n\nBig CDO arrangers like Citigroup, Merrill Lynch and UBS experienced some of the biggest losses, as did financial guaranteers such as AIG, Ambac, MBIA.\n\nAn early indicator of the crisis came in July 2007 when rating agencies made unprecedented mass downgrades of mortgage-related securities (by the end of 2008 91% of CDO securities were downgraded), and two highly leveraged Bear Stearns hedge funds holding MBSs and CDOs collapsed. Investors were informed by Bear Stearns that they would get little if any of their money back.\n\nIn October and November the CEOs of Merrill Lynch and Citigroup resigned after reporting multibillion-dollar losses and CDO downgrades. As the global market for CDOs dried up the new issue pipeline for CDOs slowed significantly, and what CDO issuance there was usually in the form of collateralized loan obligations backed by middle-market or leveraged bank loans, rather than home mortgage ABS. The CDO collapse hurt mortgage credit available to homeowners since the bigger MBS market depended on CDO purchases of mezzanine tranches.\n\nWhile non-prime mortgage defaults affected all securities backed by mortgages, CDOs were especially hard hit. More than half—$300 billion worth—of tranches issued in 2005, 2006, and 2007 rated most safe (triple-A) by rating agencies, were either downgraded to junk status or lost principal by 2009. In comparison, only small fractions of triple-A tranches of Alt-A or subprime mortgage-backed securities suffered the same fate. (See the Impaired Securities chart.)\n\nCollateralized debt obligations also made up over half ($542 billion) of the nearly trillion dollars in losses suffered by financial institutions from 2007 to early 2009.\n\nPrior to the crisis, a few academics, analysts and investors such as Warren Buffett (who famously disparaged CDOs and other derivatives as \"financial weapons of mass destruction, carrying dangers that, while now latent, are potentially lethal\"), and the IMF's former chief economist Raghuram Rajan warned that rather than reducing risk through diversification, CDOs and other derivatives spread risk and uncertainty about the value of the underlying assets more widely.\n\nDuring and after the crisis, criticism of the CDO market was more vocal. According to the radio documentary \"Giant Pool of Money\", it was the strong demand for MBS and CDO, that drove down home lending standards. Mortgages were needed for collateral and by approximately 2003, the supply of mortgages originated at traditional lending standards had been exhausted.\n\nThe head of banking supervision and regulation at the Federal Reserve, Patrick Parkinson, termed \"the whole concept of ABS CDOs\", an \"abomination\".\n\nIn December 2007, journalists Carrick Mollenkamp and Serena Ng wrote of a CDO called Norma created by Merrill Lynch at the behest of Illinois hedge fund, Magnetar. It was a tailor-made bet on subprime mortgages that went \"too far.\" Janet Tavakoli, a Chicago consultant who specializes in CDOs, said Norma \"is a tangled hairball of risk.\" When it came to market in March 2007, \"any savvy investor would have thrown this...in the trash bin.\"\n\nAccording to journalists Bethany McLean and Joe Nocera, no securities became \"more pervasive -- or [did] more damage than collateralized debt obligations\" to create the Great Recession.\n\nGretchen Morgenson described the securities as \"a sort of secret refuse heap for toxic mortgages [that] created even more demand for bad loans from wanton lenders.\"\nCDOs prolonged the mania, vastly amplifying the losses that investors would suffer and ballooning the amounts of taxpayer money that would be required to rescue companies like Citigroup and the American International Group.\" ...\n\nIn the first quarter of 2008 alone, credit rating agencies announced 4,485 downgrades of CDOs. At least some analysts complained the agencies over-relied on computer models with imprecise inputs, failed to account adequately for large risks (like a nationwide collapse of housing values), and assumed the risk of the low rated tranches that made up CDOs would be diluted when in fact the mortgage risks were highly correlated, and when one mortgage defaulted, many did, affected by the same financial events.\n\nThey were strongly criticized by economist Joseph Stiglitz, among others. Stiglitz considered the agencies \"one of the key culprits\" of the crisis that \"performed that alchemy that converted the securities from F-rated to A-rated. The banks could not have done what they did without the complicity of the ratings agencies.\" According to Morgenson, the agencies had pretended to transform \"dross into gold.\"\n\n\"As usual, the ratings agencies were chronically behind on developments in the financial markets and they could barely keep up with the new instruments springing from the brains of Wall Street's rocket scientists. Fitch, Moody's, and S&P paid their analysts far less than the big brokerage firms did and, not surprisingly wound up employing people who were often looking to befriend, accommodate, and impress the Wall Street clients in hopes of getting hired by them for a multiple increase in pay. ... Their [the rating agencies] failure to recognize that mortgage underwriting standards had decayed or to account for the possibility that real estate prices could decline completely undermined the ratings agencies' models and undercut their ability to estimate losses that these securities might generate.\"\n\nMichael Lewis also pronounced the transformation of BBB tranches into 80% triple A CDOs as \"dishonest\", \"artificial\" and the result of \"fat fees\" paid to rating agencies by Goldman Sachs and other Wall Street firms. However, if the collateral had been sufficient, those ratings would have been correct, according to the FDIC.\n\nSynthetic CDOs were criticized in particular, because of the difficulties to judge (and price) the risk inherent in that kind of securities correctly. That adverse effect roots in the pooling and tranching activities on every level of the derivation.\n\nOthers pointed out the risk of undoing the connection between borrowers and lenders—removing the lender's incentive to only pick borrowers who were creditworthy—inherent in all securitization. According to economist Mark Zandi: \"As shaky mortgages were combined, diluting any problems into a larger pool, the incentive for responsibility was undermined.\"\n\nZandi and others also criticized lack of regulation. \"Finance companies weren't subject to the same regulatory oversight as banks. Taxpayers weren't on the hook if they went belly up [pre-crisis], only their shareholders and other creditors were. Finance companies thus had little to discourage them from growing as aggressively as possible, even if that meant lowering or winking at traditional lending standards.\"\n\nCDOs vary in structure and underlying assets, but the basic principle is the same. A CDO is a type of asset-backed security. To create a CDO, a corporate entity is constructed to hold assets as collateral backing packages of cash flows which are sold to investors. A sequence in constructing a CDO is:\n\nA common analogy compares the cash flow from the CDO's portfolio of securities (say mortgage payments from mortgage-backed bonds) to water flowing into cups of the investors where senior tranches were filled first and overflowing cash flowed to junior tranches, then equity tranches. If a large portion of the mortgages enter default, there is insufficient cash flow to fill all these cups and equity tranche investors face the losses first.\n\nThe risk and return for a CDO investor depends both on how the tranches are defined, and on the underlying assets. In particular, the investment depends on the assumptions and methods used to define the risk and return of the tranches. CDOs, like all asset-backed securities, enable the originators of the underlying assets to pass credit risk to another institution or to individual investors. Thus investors must understand how the risk for CDOs is calculated.\n\nThe issuer of the CDO, typically an investment bank, earns a commission at the time of issue and earns management fees during the life of the CDO. The ability to earn substantial fees from originating CDOs, coupled with the absence of any residual liability, skews the incentives of originators in favor of loan volume rather than loan quality.\n\nIn some cases, the assets held by one CDO consisted entirely of equity layer tranches issued by other CDOs. This explains why some CDOs became entirely worthless, as the equity layer tranches were paid last in the sequence and there wasn't sufficient cash flow from the underlying subprime mortgages (many of which defaulted) to trickle down to the equity layers.\n\nUltimately the challenge is in accurately quantifying the risk and return characteristics of these constructs. Since the introduction of David Li's 2001 model, there have been material advances in techniques that more accurately model dynamics for these complex securities.\n\nCDO refers to several different types of products. The primary classifications are as follows:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe issuer of a CDO—usually a special purpose entity—is typically a corporation established outside the United States to avoid being subject to U.S. federal income taxation on its global income. These corporations must restrict their activities to avoid U.S. tax liabilities; corporations that are deemed to engage in trade or business in the U.S. will be subject to federal taxation. Foreign corporations that only invest in and hold portfolios of U.S. stock and debt securities are not. Investing, unlike trading or dealing, is not considered to be a trade or business, regardless of its volume or frequency.\n\nIn addition, a safe harbor protects CDO issuers that do trade actively in securities, even though trading in securities technically is a business, provided the issuer's activities do not cause it to be viewed as a dealer in securities or engaged in a banking, lending or similar businesses.\n\nCDOs are generally taxable as debt instruments except for the most junior class of CDOs which are treated as equity and are subject to special rules (such as PFIC and CFC reporting). The PFIC and CFC reporting is very complex and requires a specialized accountant to perform these calculations and manage the tax reporting obligations.\n\nA) Based on the underlying asset:\n\nB) Other types of CDOs by assets/collateral include:\n\nThe collateral for cash CDOs include:\n\nParticipants in a CDO transaction include investors, the underwriter, the asset manager, the trustee and collateral administrator, accountants and attorneys. Beginning in 1999, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act allowed banks to also participate.\n\nInvestors—buyers of CDO—include insurance companies, mutual fund companies, unit trusts, investment trusts, commercial banks, investment banks, pension fund managers, private banking organizations, other CDOs and structured investment vehicles. Investors have different motivations for purchasing CDO securities depending on which tranche they select. At the more senior levels of debt, investors are able to obtain better yields than those that are available on more traditional securities (e.g., corporate bonds) of a similar rating. In some cases, investors utilize leverage and hope to profit from the excess of the spread offered by the senior tranche and their cost of borrowing. This is true because senior tranches pay a spread above LIBOR despite their AAA-ratings. Investors also benefit from the diversification of the CDO portfolio, the expertise of the asset manager, and the credit support built into the transaction. Investors include banks and insurance companies as well as investment funds.\n\nJunior tranche investors achieve a leveraged, non-recourse investment in the underlying diversified collateral portfolio. Mezzanine notes and equity notes offer yields that are not available in most other fixed income securities. Investors include hedge funds, banks, and wealthy individuals.\n\nThe underwriter of a CDO is typically an investment bank, and acts as the structurer and arranger. Working with the asset management firm that selects the CDO's portfolio, the underwriter structures debt and equity tranches. This includes selecting the debt-to-equity ratio, sizing each tranche, establishing coverage and collateral quality tests, and working with the credit rating agencies to gain the desired ratings for each debt tranche.\n\nThe key economic consideration for an underwriter that is considering bringing a new deal to market is whether the transaction can offer a sufficient return to the equity noteholders. Such a determination requires estimating the after-default return offered by the portfolio of debt securities and comparing it to the cost of funding the CDO's rated notes. The excess spread must be large enough to offer the potential of attractive IRRs to the equityholders.\n\nOther underwriter responsibilities include working with a law firm and creating the special purpose legal vehicle (typically a trust incorporated in the Cayman Islands) that will purchase the assets and issue the CDO's tranches. In addition, the underwriter will work with the asset manager to determine the post-closing trading restrictions that will be included in the CDO's transaction documents and other files.\n\nThe final step is to price the CDO (i.e., set the coupons for each debt tranche) and place the tranches with investors. The priority in placement is finding investors for the risky equity tranche and junior debt tranches (A, BBB, etc.) of the CDO. It is common for the asset manager to retain a piece of the equity tranche. In addition, the underwriter was generally expected to provide some type of secondary market liquidity for the CDO, especially its more senior tranches.\n\nAccording to Thomson Financial, the top underwriters before September 2008 were Bear Stearns, Merrill Lynch, Wachovia, Citigroup, Deutsche Bank, and Bank of America Securities. CDOs are more profitable for underwriters than conventional bond underwriting because of the complexity involved. The underwriter is paid a fee when the CDO is issued.\n\nThe asset manager plays a key role in each CDO transaction, even after the CDO is issued. An experienced manager is critical in both the construction and maintenance of the CDO's portfolio. The manager can maintain the credit quality of a CDO's portfolio through trades as well as maximize recovery rates when defaults on the underlying assets occur.\n\nIn theory, the asset manager should add value in the manner outlined below, although in practice, this did not occur during the credit bubble of the mid-2000s (decade). In addition, it is now understood that the structural flaw in all asset-backed securities (originators profit from loan volume not loan quality) make the roles of subsequent participants peripheral to the quality of the investment.\n\nThe asset manager's role begins in the months before a CDO is issued, a bank usually provides financing to the manager to purchase some of the collateral assets for the forthcoming CDO. This process is called warehousing.\n\nEven by the issuance date, the asset manager often will not have completed the construction of the CDO's portfolio. A \"ramp-up\" period following issuance during which the remaining assets are purchased can extend for several months after the CDO is issued. For this reason, some senior CDO notes are structured as delayed drawdown notes, allowing the asset manager to draw down cash from investors as collateral purchases are made. When a transaction is fully ramped, its initial portfolio of credits has been selected by the asset manager.\n\nHowever, the asset manager's role continues even after the ramp-up period ends, albeit in a less active role. During the CDO's \"reinvestment period\", which usually extends several years past the issuance date of the CDO, the asset manager is authorized to reinvest principal proceeds by purchasing additional debt securities. Within the confines of the trading restrictions specified in the CDO's transaction documents, the asset manager can also make trades to maintain the credit quality of the CDO's portfolio. The manager also has a role in the redemption of a CDO's notes by auction call.\n\nThere are approximately 300 asset managers in the marketplace. CDO Asset Managers, as with other Asset Managers, can be more or less active depending on the personality and prospectus of the CDO. Asset Managers make money by virtue of the senior fee (which is paid before any of the CDO investors are paid) and subordinated fee as well as any equity investment the manager has in the CDO, making CDOs a lucrative business for asset managers. These fees, together with underwriting fees, administration—approx 1.5 - 2% -- by virtue of capital structure are provided by the equity investment, by virtue of reduced cashflow.\n\nThe trustee holds title to the assets of the CDO for the benefit of the \"noteholders\" (i.e., the investors). In the CDO market, the trustee also typically serves as collateral administrator. In this role, the collateral administrator produces and distributes noteholder reports, performs various compliance tests regarding the composition and liquidity of the asset portfolios in addition to constructing and executing the priority of payment waterfall models. In contrast to the asset manager, there are relatively few trustees in the marketplace. The following institutions offer trustee services in the CDO marketplace:\n\nThe underwriter typically will hire an accounting firm to perform due diligence on the CDO's portfolio of debt securities. This entails verifying certain attributes, such as credit rating and coupon/spread, of each collateral security. Source documents or public sources will typically be used to tie-out the collateral pool information. In addition, the accountants typically calculate certain collateral tests and determine whether the portfolio is in compliance with such tests.\n\nThe firm may also perform a cash flow tie-out in which the transaction's waterfall is modeled per the priority of payments set forth in the transaction documents. The yield and weighted average life of the bonds or equity notes being issued is then calculated based on the modeling assumptions provided by the underwriter. On each payment date, an accounting firm may work with the trustee to verify the distributions that are scheduled to be made to the noteholders.\n\nAttorneys ensure compliance with applicable securities law and negotiate and draft the transaction documents. Attorneys will also draft an offering document or prospectus the purpose of which is to satisfy statutory requirements to disclose certain information to investors. This will be circulated to investors. It is common for multiple counsels to be involved in a single deal because of the number of parties to a single CDO from asset management firms to underwriters.\n\nIn the 2015 biographical film \"The Big Short\", CDOs are described metaphorically as \"dog shit wrapped in cat shit\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26640055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26640055", "title": "Constitutional history of Bolivia", "text": "Constitutional history of Bolivia\n\nBolivia has had seventeen constitutions, including the present one, since its foundation in 1825.\n\nThe Constituent Assembly that founded Bolivia in 1825 wrote the nation's first constitution establishing a centralized government with executive, legislative, and judicial branches. Based on the United States Constitution and borrowing a few premises from the French Republic, the first charter adopted liberal and representative democracy granting the congress autonomy and policy-making prerogatives. This constitution, however, was never adopted.\n\nOn November 26, 1826, the Bolivarian constitution, written in Lima by the liberator Simón Bolívar Palacio, replaced the original document and instituted a fourfold separation of powers among a lifetime presidency, an independent judiciary, a tricameral congress, and an electoral body. The tricameral congress comprised the Senate and the Chamber of Tribunes, whose members had fixed terms, as well as a Chamber of Censors, whose members served for life. Theoretically, the Senate was responsible for codifying laws and reorienting church and court officials, the Chamber of Tribunes possessed general legislative powers, and the Chamber of Censors had oversight powers that included impeachment of members of the executive. In reality, the legislature's key functions were to name the president and to approve a list of successors submitted by the president. One of the long-lasting effects of the Bolivarian constitution was the establishment of an executive-based system. The Bolivarian constitution reflected the Spanish tradition of bureaucratic patrimonialism in which power rested in the executive branch.\n\nIn many ways, the Bolivarian constitution reflected Bolívar's desire to prevent rule by the masses. As a result, the franchise was extended only to those literate in Spanish who either possessed property then worth 400 bolivianos or engaged in an art, in a science, or in some other remunerative position. Domestic and personal servants were also denied the franchise. In short, voting rights were limited to a very small and privileged elite. Voting qualifications and restrictions remained until universal suffrage was adopted during the 1952 Revolution. Bolívar also feared that rival elite factions would wage battle against each other for control over the new nation and became convinced that the best way to prevent instability and chaos was to institutionalize a strong, centralized, and lifetime presidency.\n\nHowever, the Bolivarian constitution did not last long because of the great disparity that existed between the national aspirations of the state and its effective power over Bolivia's disparate regions and population. Between 1825 and 1880, Bolivian political life was dominated by a series of quasi-military leaders, known as caudillos, who had emerged with the collapse of the Spanish Empire. Within the context of economic crisis, warring caudillos, and a semifeudal social structure, constitutions and the national government became prizes to be captured by one or another caudillo.\n\nUnder the presidency of General Andrés de Santa Cruz y Calahumana, a new constitution was adopted on August 31, 1831. The new constitution introduced bicameralism, dividing the body between the Chamber of Senators (Senate) and the Chamber of Deputies elected by proportional representation. Annual sessions for the National Congress (hereafter, Congress) were to run between sixty and ninety days. Although the president was given the power to dissolve congress, the new constitution abolished the lifetime presidency and limited the president to renewable four-year terms. Despite these limitations, however, presidential power actually increased during the presidency of Santa Cruz, and the trend toward greater concentration of power in the executive continued throughout Bolivia's history.\n\nUnder the short-lived Peru-Bolivian Confederation of 1836-39, Santa Cruz promulgated a new constitution that basically applied the principles of the 1831 charter to the alliance. The end of the confederation motivated Santa Cruz to institutionalize the strong executive model embodied in the 1831 charter. Because the president was given the power to dissolve the legislature, Congress was condemned to a passive and submissive role.\n\nFor the next forty-two years, Bolivia was subjected to the whims of caudillos who dictated constitutional charters almost as regularly as changes of government occurred. Between 1839 and 1880, six constitutions were approved by the legislative power. Except for the constitution of 1839, which limited presidential power, the constitutions promulgated under José Ballivián y Segurola (1843), Manuel Isidoro Belzú Humérez (1851), José María Achá Valiente (1861), Mariano Melgarejo Valencia (1868), and Agustín Morales Hernández (1871) further concentrated power in the hands of the executive. As a rule, during this era Congress responded to the demands of whatever caudillo was in power.\n\nCaudillo politics came to an end after the War of the Pacific (1879–80), in which the combined forces of Bolivia and Peru suffered a humiliating defeat against Chile's armed forces. The end of the war gave rise to a new mining elite oriented to laissez-faire capitalism. Aided by the failure of Bolivia's armed forces in the war effort, this new elite was able to design a new civilian regime of \"order and progress.\"\n\nIn 1880 Bolivia's most durable constitution was approved; it was to remain in effect for the next fifty-eight years. Under this constitution, bicameralism was fully adopted, and the legislative power became an important arena for political debate. During this period, Bolivia achieved a functioning constitutional order complete with political parties, interest groups, and an active legislature. The country was also a prime example of a formal democracy with legally limited participation. Literacy and property requirements were still enforced to exclude the Indian population and the urban working class from politics. Political life was reserved for the privileged and a minuscule upper class.\n\nThe basic premises of representative democracy introduced in 1880 still prevailed in 1989. Specifically, congressional oversight prerogatives over executive behavior were introduced by law in 1884 when Bolivia emerged from the War of the Pacific. The Law Governing Trials of Responsibilities was to become an integral part of Bolivia's restricted democracy.\n\nThe economic crisis of the 1930s and the disastrous Chaco War (1932–35) exacerbated social tensions. The effects of the war would in turn have a dramatic effect on Bolivian political life and its institutions. Between 1935 and 1952, middle-class reformist efforts converged into populist movements led by both military officers and middle-class civilian intellectuals. Under Colonel Germán Busch Becerra (1937–39), a constituent assembly approved reforms in 1938 that were to have a lasting and profound impact on Bolivian society. Of greatest significance were changes that altered the pattern of relations between state and society. According to its provisions, human rights outweighed property rights, the national interest in the subsoil and its riches predominated, the state had a right to intervene in economic life and to regulate commerce, workers could organize and bargain collectively, and educational facilities for all children were mandated. The labor provision helped establish the basis for political parties by allowing the formation of miners' and peasants' unions that eventually played central roles in the 1952 Revolution.\n\nBolivia's constitution was again reformed in 1944 during the presidency of Colonel Gualberto Villarroel López (1943–46), another populist reformer. The principal changes included suffrage rights for women, but only in municipal elections, and the establishment of presidential and vice presidential terms of six years without immediate reelection. Reforms undertaken by military-populist governments, however, were partially rolled back following the overthrow and assassination of Villarroel in 1946. In 1947 a new constitution reduced the presidential term to four years and increased the powers of the Senate.\n\nThe post-Chaco War reformist efforts increased the role of the state, especially in terms of redressing social and economic grievances. The constitutions of this period reflected the rise of movements and groups that were to dominate Bolivian politics for the next forty years. For example, the Nationalist Revolutionary Movement(Movimiento Nacionalista Revolucionario—MNR) espoused a broad multiclass alliance of workers, peasants, and middle-class elements to do battle with the antinational forces of the mining oligarchy and its foreign allies. It went on to conduct the 1952 Revolution, and in 1988 the MNR was back in power with Paz Estenssoro, its founder and leader, as president. Although the 1952 Revolution fundamentally transformed Bolivian society, a new political order was never fully implemented. Between 1952 and 1956, factions of the MNR debated alternative and novel modes of political organization, including proposals to implement a worker's assembly. By 1956, however, the 1947 constitution had been ratified. Apart from a powerful labor movement, organized as the Bolivian Labor Federation (Central Obrera Boliviana—COB), the MNR failed to create new institutions capable of channeling and controlling the demands of the groups mobilized by the 1952 Revolution.\n\nThe 1961 constitution institutionalized the gains of the 1952 Revolution by adopting universal suffrage, the nationalization of the mines, and agrarian reform. Factional disputes within the MNR, rooted in demands for access to state employment, undermined the party's capacity to carry out further reforms. In fact, the 1961 constitution served mainly the interests of Paz Estenssoro's faction of the MNR by providing for his reelection in 1964.\n\nThe overthrow of the MNR by General René Barrientos Ortuño (president, 1964–65; copresident, May 1965-January 1966; and president, 1966–69) in 1964 initiated the contemporary era in Bolivian constitutional development. After calling elections in 1966 and invoking the 1947 constitution, Barrientos attempted to force through Congress a new corporatist charter. Because he sought democratic legitimacy, however, he was forced to give up his original project in favor of a constitution rooted firmly in the liberal democratic tradition that had inspired the authors of the 1880 charter.\n\nUnder the terms of the Constitution of 1967, Bolivia was a unitary republic that retains a democratic and representative democracy. Article 2 stipulated that sovereignty resides in the people, that it is inalienable, and that its exercise is delegated to the legislative, executive, and judicial powers. The functions of the public power—executive, legislative, and judicial—could not be united in a single branch of government. Although the Constitution of 1967 recognized Roman Catholicism as the official state religion, it also guaranteed to all faiths the right to worship publicly. In theory, the people governed through their representatives and through other authorities established by law. The Constitution of 1967 became known to most Bolivians only in the 1980s because, for all practical purposes, it was in effect only until 1969 when a coup by General Alfredo Ovando Candia (copresident, May 1965-January 1966, and president, January-August 1966 and 1969–70) overthrew the civilian regime. Between then and 1979, the Constitution of 1967 was given only lip service by the military rulers who governed Bolivia.\n\nBolivia's most recent Constitution was drafted by the Constituent Assembly, an elected body that met in Sucre and Oruro from 6 August 2006 to 9 December 2007. The constitution was further modified by an Editing Commission before being present to Congress on 14 December 2007; by the Cochabamba Dialogue between the President and opposition Prefects in September 2008; and in Congress during negotiations for a referendum in October 2008.\n\nIt came into effect on February 7, 2009, when it was promulgated by President Evo Morales after being approved in a referendum with 90.24% participation. The referendum was held on January 25, 2009, and the constitution was approved by 61.43% of voters.\n\nThe 2009 Constitution defines Bolivia as a unitary plurinational, and secular (rather than a Catholic, as before) state, formally known as the Plurinational State of Bolivia. It calls for a mixed economy of state, private, and communal ownership; restricts private land ownership to a maximum of 5,000 hectares (12,400 acres); recognizes a variety of autonomies at the local and departmental level. It elevates the electoral authorities, to become a fourth constitutional power; introduces the possibility of recall elections for all elected officials; and enlarges the Senate. Members of the enlarged National Congress will be elected by first past the post voting in the future, in a change from the previous mixed member proportional system. The judiciary is reformed, and judges will be elected in the future and no longer appointed by the National Congress. It declares natural resources to be the exclusive dominion of the Bolivian people, administered by the state. Sucre will be acknowledged as Bolivia's capital, but the institutions will remain where they are (executive and legislative in La Paz, judiciary in Sucre). The electoral authorities will be situated in Sucre.\n"}
{"id": "41012467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41012467", "title": "Content delivery network interconnection", "text": "Content delivery network interconnection\n\nContent delivery network interconnection (CDNI) is a set of interfaces and mechanisms required for interconnecting two independent content delivery networks (CDNs) that enables one to deliver content on behalf of the other. Interconnected CDNs offer many benefits, such as footprint extension, reduced infrastructure costs, higher availability, etc., for content service providers (CSPs), CDNs, and end users. Among its many use cases, it allows small CDNs to interconnect and provides services for CSPs that allows them to compete against the CDNs of global CSPs.\n\nThanks to the many benefits of CDNs, e.g. reduced delivery cost, improved quality of experience (QoE), and increased robustness of delivery, CDNs have become popular for large-scale content delivery of cacheable content. For this reason, CDN providers are scaling up their infrastructure and many Internet service providers (ISPs)/network service providers (NSPs) have deployed or are deploying their own CDNs for their own use or for lease, if a business and technical arrangement between them and a CDN provider were made. Those stand-alone CDNs with well-defined request routing, delivery, acquisition, accounting systems and protocols may sooner or later face either footprint, resource or capability limits. The CDNI targets at leveraging separate CDNs to provide end-to-end delivery of content from CSPs to end users, regardless of their location or attachment network.\n\nLet’s consider an interconnection of two CDNs as presented in the below figure. The ISP-A deploys an authoritative upstream CDN (uCDN), and he has established a technical and business arrangement with the CSP. Because the CDN-A is authorised to serve on behalf of the CSP, a user in the network of ISP-B requests content from CDN-A (1). The uCDN can either serve the request itself or redirect it to a downstream CDN (dCDN) if, for example, dCDN is closer to the user equipment (UE). If the request is redirected, the interconnected CDNs must provide the requested content to the dCDN. If the content is not available in the uCDN, it can be acquired first from CSP (2) and then submitted to a surrogate in the dCDN (3). The UE following the redirection will request the content from the dCDN (4), and finally, the requested content will be distributed from the surrogate.\n\nIn this example, all four parties can benefit from the interconnection: the end users can benefit from better quality of service (QoS); the CSP benefits because it has to make only one business and technical arrangement with uCDN; the uCDN benefits because it does not have to deploy such an extensive CDN; and the dCDN will receive some compensation for the delivery. The procedures and algorithms responsible for choosing the right dCDN, choosing a surrogate and the procedure for acquiring the content to be submitted to the surrogate can differ, but the dCDN serves the content on behalf of the uCDN.\n\nBelow is an incomplete list of use cases for which CDNI was presented. The use cases seem to be convergent among the standardisation approaches (see Standardisation status section).\n\nFootprint is defined as a region for which a CDN is able to deliver content. With a deployed CDNI, non-global CDN providers may offer CSPs an extended geographical footprint without\n\n\nAn interconnection may be attractive to a large CDN provider who possesses many CDNs in various locations and who may want to make them interoperable.\n\nA CDNI footprint extension is also beneficial for cases in which CDN providers deliver a lot of popular content to networks of a few ISPs. If so, interconnection of such CDNs would offer improved QoS and QoE to end users, reduce and allow control of ingress traffic in the ISP’s network, reduce hardware capacity and footprint of uCDN and allow the ISP to derive some revenue.\n\nAdditionally, interconnected networks may allow nomadic end users to access content with a consistent QoE across a range of devices and/or geographic regions.\n\nA CDNI can be very useful in overload handling because it allows the unexpected spikes in traffic, e.g. a ﬂash crowd that exceeds the peaks for which a CDN was dimensioned, to be spread between the uCDN and the dCDN. If the CDNs share their resources, they may benefit from dimensioning savings. For such a mechanism to work properly, the uCDN requires information in real time from a dCDN on the amount of traﬃc it can oﬄoad. Whereas for planned events, such as maintenance or special event distribution, a static resource reservation can be sufficient.\n\nAdditionally, a CDNI provides means for resiliency against content delivery and acquisition failure. Deploying it, for cases in which the CSPs’ surrogates and origin servers are unavailable, allows delivery requests to be redirected towards another CDN. Similarly, with a deployed CDNI, if a default acquisition source fails, other sources within the interconnection, e.g. an alternate uCDN, can be used. This, in turn, provides load balancing between content acquisition sources.\n\nA CDNI can be a means of extending a supported range of devices and network technologies if a CDN is not able to support them or if its provider is not willing to provide them. For example, a CDN provider may want to extend its portfolio of services to HTTP Adaptive streaming and/or IPv6 while supporting HTTP streaming and/or IPv4 only. This extension can be realized by interconnecting to a CDN that can provide the requested protocols. Similarly, an interconnection may enable a fixed-line CDN provider to extend its services to mobile devices.\n\nWhen a CDN provider runs many networks in different technologies, has a multi-vendor strategy or deploys separate networks for many CSPs an interconnection can ease its establishing technology and vendor interoperability by simplification or automatisation of some inter-CDN operations.\n\nAnother use case would be an improvement of QoS and QoE for a CDN provider if an interconnection option with a network of surrogates closer to end users existed.\n\nThe Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) (see Standardisation status section) defines five interfaces required to interconnect a pair of CDNs from a technical perspective, as depicted in Figure 2. The interfaces are control plane interfaces operating at the application layer that aim to reuse or leverage existing protocols, e.g. HTTP, rather than to define a new one. This model of the CDNI does not define content acquisition, delivery, request interfaces and mechanisms because today CDNs already use standardised protocols for them, e.g. HTTP, FTP, rsync, etc. are used for content acquisition. The interconnection allows a number of CDNs to be connected in various topologies, such as line, mesh or start topology. It is important to note that in order to deploy a CDNI, additional business arrangements have to be established between the CSP and the uCDN and between the uCDN and the dCDN. At the time of this writing detailed operations of interfaces and the structure of exchanged objects are under standardisation process. The defined interfaces are briefly described as follows.\n\nThe CI is designed to initiate an interconnection across two CDNs and bootstrap the other CDNI interfaces. For example, the control interface can be used to provide the address of the logging server in order to bootstrap the logging interface, or it can be used to establish security associations for other interfaces. It can also allow an uCDN to preposition, revalidate or purge metadata and content on a dCDN.\n\nRedirects and selects a delivery dCDN for a given user request. This interface provides loop prevention and detection mechanism for the served requests.\n\nEnables asynchronous exchange of routing information on capabilities and footprint to support dCDN selection for subsequent user requests. The union of the RI and FCI interfaces denotes the request interface.\n\nAllows a dCDN to provide content metadata from an uCDN. The metadata may include information on required authorization, geo-blocking, availability windows and delegation white- and blacklists. This information can, for example, limit the distribution to a given country or make content intended for adults available only in late-night hours. The collected metadata is used later for CDNI redirection and user content request responses.\n\nEnables content distribution and delivery activity details to be exchanged via interconnection. Real-time exchange can be used for traﬃc monitoring and offline exchange can be used for billing of end user or billing between interconnected CDNs.\n\nFor selection of a dCDN, the information on its footprint and capabilities is mainly used. The footprint can be specified with the use of IP subnets, autonomous systems (AS) numbers or country, state and code combinations. The capabilities describe features, services and states a CDN can or cannot meet and includes network and administrative capabilities, information about caches and the resources. The network information may disclose details on QoS or the supported streaming bandwidth. The administrative capabilities may inform on established limits and policies. The data about the caches may inform about the load and the available resources. The resource information may specify supported delivery technologies and content types, such as the ability to stream video to a particular device type.\n\nGiven the information on footprint and capabilities, the uCDN may proceed to the initial selection of a dCDN—first on the basis of footprint and then on the basis of capabilities. However, such procedures may lead to suboptimal or incorrect decisions; for example when the dCDN is selected on the basis of footprint, it cannot provide the requested delivery technology. Therefore, a more approved procedure involves making the footprint information part of the capabilities requirements.\n\nVarious protocols are considered for exchange of information on either footprint, such as BGP, on capabilities, such as HTTP, or on both footprint and capabilities, such as Application Layer Traffic Optimization (ALTO).\n\nFor user request redirection, two mechanisms, among others, are used in CDNs: mainly HTTP and DNS redirection.\n\nThe HTTP method uses the HTTP redirection response, e.g. 302, containing a new URL to visit. Besides the option of changing the name of the server in the new URL, the URL can contain the name of the original server, which provides a means for an in-band communication. Moreover, the redirection mechanism can use the information on the IP address of a client, the requested content type or user agent for target surrogate selection. Unfortunately, change of a URL’s domain will cause web browsers to not send cookies.\n\nThe DNS redirection is completely transparent to the end user in comparison to the HTTP method. In the simple DNS redirection, the authoritative DNS server for the name returns an IP address based on the characteristic of a client. Which IP address is returned as a result depends, among other factors, on either the localisation of the end user or the surrogate server’s load. There is another DNS redirection method in which the authoritative server returns a CNAME response. This forces the peer to restart the name lookup using a new name. To preserve the freshness of the redirection in case of cached DNS responses, an appropriate value of the time-to-live parameter is set. A drawback of this method is that DNS caches hide the end user’s IP address.\n\nBoth redirection methods, HTTP and DNS based, can be performed in the CDNI, either iteratively or recursively. The recursive redirection is more transparent for the end user because it involves only one UE redirection, but it has other dependencies on the interconnection realisation. A single UE redirection may be preferable if the number of interconnected CDNs exceeds two.\n\nThe sequence diagram presented in the figure below provides some details on CDNI and the iterative DNS redirection operation. In the depicted example, a UE downloads content from the address cdn.csp.com/foo, which is primarily delivered by the CDN-A on behalf of a CSP with the address csp.com.\n\n\nIf addressed in CDNI specifications, support of HTTP adaptive streaming (HAS) is particularly realised. Large objects are broken into a sequence of small, independent chunks, e.g. videos, that are perceived as if there were no relationship between the chunks. As a result, content acquisition and chunk purging are performed on a per-chunk basis. In order to reduce the CDNI load, specifications either allow relative Uniform Resource Locators (URLs) or modify absolute URLs in the manifest file of a resource distributed via HAS.\n\nThe security of the CDNI is optional, and its support is introduced as a capability of a CDN. Security of the CDNI involves content confidentiality protection, authenticated peers communication and data origin authentication. The data origin authentication is of high importance if the trust of the link between CDN is questioned. The security is enforced by switching to secure versions of protocols deployed in the CDNI, e.g. HTTPS. Usually, if a CDNI is established via secure protocols, secure protocols are also used for content acquisition and distribution.\n\nFurther issues related to security could be various end user privacy requirements in relation to the exchanged logs across different countries or authenticity of logs for delivery charging across CDNs. What consequences a security breakage would have depends on the interface and its function; for example, a corruption of the control interface could corrupt other interfaces, while a corrupted logging interface could enable a fraud in charging.\n\nA number of organisations and projects, i.e. IETF, European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI), Alliance for Telecommunications Industry Solutions (ATIS) and Open ContEnt Aware Networks (OCEAN), have been working or are working on the standardisation of CDNI interfaces and methods. There exist some mismatches and differences between the specifications in the defined interfaces as well as in terminology.\n\nThe ETSI specifications \n\nThe OCEAN framework exhaustively specifies the open interfaces and processes of the proposed CDNI. The documents define additional business, acquisition and inner metadata interfaces. Further, the metadata interface as defined by the ETSI is split into two more specialised interfaces that, together, result in the reference model with nine interfaces.\n\nThe paid ATIS standards and technical reports define specification of use cases and high-level requirements for a CDNI. According to the freely available abstracts these specifications cover, among other aspects, the interconnection of two CDN providers as a foundation for using multicast as a means for distributing content across two CDN providers and for joining together a multiple of CDN providers to form a CDN federation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28801671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28801671", "title": "Deviation (law)", "text": "Deviation (law)\n\nThe doctrine of deviation is a particular aspect of contracts of carriage of goods by sea. A deviation is a departure from the \"agreed route\" or the \"usual route\", and it can amount to a serious a breach of contract. The consequences of unjustified deviation are very grave for the carrier, who is thereby prevented from relying upon any exclusion clause which limits his liability.\n\nThe \"agreed route\" is identified from the contract of carriage, as evidenced by the bill of lading. The ports of origin and destination (e.g. \"Piraeus to Liverpool\"') define the route. The \"usual route\" is not necessarily the shortest route, but is a version of the agreed route, taking into account safety issues, distances, seasonal conditions and war zones. For instance, the route \"Auckland to London\" could be via Suez, Panama, the Cape of Good Hope, or Cape Horn, but the usual route will be identified by reference to current practice or to any previous dealings of the parties.\n\nAlthough a deviation is primarily a departure from the agreed route or the usual route, the concept of deviation extends beyond this. Deviation may include any unjustified delay such as remaining at authorised ports longer than necessary, or acting beyond the agreed scope of the voyage. For example, if a ship makes an authorised call at a port, but stays on to trade or break bulk, this action may amount to a deviation.\n\nThe concept of deviation has been extended (\"sub nom\" “quasi deviation”) to cover wrongful transhipment, careless stowage, and stowage in the wrong part of the ship (such as on deck, rather than below decks). The consequences of quasi-deviation are the same as for ordinary deviation.\nArticle IV Rule 4 of the Hague-Visby Rules provides: \"Any deviation in saving or attempting to save life or property at sea or any reasonable deviation shall not be deemed to be an infringement or breach of these Rules or of the contract of carriage, and the carrier shall not be liable for any loss or damage resulting therefrom\". The Hague-Visby Rules do not define deviation, but rely on existing common law definitions. Nor do the Rules define “any reasonable deviation”, but in decided cases the phrase has been taken to include deviation…..\n\nIf a justified deviation is followed by an unjustified deviation, the doctrine of deviation will apply from the unjustified deviation.\n\nDeviation in carriage of goods by sea is treated as a serious breach because it undermines the carrier's prime duty to the shipper of the cargo, namely to carry the cargo to its destination will \"all due despatch\".\n\nThe English common law of deviation is establish by two cases, \"Glynn v Margetson\" and \"Leduc v Ward\".\n\nIn \"Glynn v Margetson\" (1893), a vessel was to carry a perishable consignment of Seville marmalade oranges from Malaga to Liverpool. The contract included a \"liberty clause\" which allowed the vessel \"liberty to proceed and stay at any ports in any rotation in the Mediterranean, Levant, Black sea or Adriatic, or on the coasts of Africa, Spain, Portugal or France..\" On leaving Malaga, the vessel did not head straight for Liverpool, but made her way to Burriana, 350 miles up the coast. As a result of the delay, the cargo had deteriorated by the time it reached England. The House of Lords (establishing the so-called \"main purpose rule\"), held that the clause, if given full effect, would defeat the main purpose of the contract and would be, in effect, an exemption clause which should be ignored. They gave the clause a limited construction, namely that the vessel could have liberty to proceed and stay only at ports reasonably close to the agreed route from Malaga to Liverpool, such as Cadiz or Lisbon.\n\nIn \"Leduc v Ward\"(1882), a vessel was to voyage from Fiume (modern day Rijeka) to Dunkirk. The bill of lading gave \"liberty to call at any ports in any order\". She did not proceed to Dunkirk, but headed for Glasgow, and was lost in a storm near Ailsa Craig. Just as in \"Glynn v Margetson\", the Court of Appeal held that the deviation was unjustifiable and was not permitted by the liberty clause, so the carrier was liable for the lost cargo. (Had the court held that the deviation was justified, the carrier would have avoided liability as the storm would have been an \"Act of God\"). Even though it was accepted that the shipper had been verbally informed that the vessel might make passage to Glasgow, this evidence was not admissible, because the parol evidence rule prevents recourse to extraneous evidence when construing a written document. Using the criteria of differential bargaining strength of the parties, whereby the carrier is usually deemed to have greater bargaining power than the shipper, note that the parol evidence rule may be relaxed if a shipper seeks to rely on any verbal promises of the carrier (rather than \"vice versa\", as in \"Leduc v Ward\") .\n\nAn unjustified deviation can be a serious breach of the contract of carriage, and the carrier will be prevented from relying upon any exclusion clause which limits his liability. Such clauses include the \"liberty clauses\" of \"Leduc v Ward\", but in particular include the huge range of exemptions granted to carriers by Article IV of the Hague-Visby Rules.\n\nAlthough a shipping case, the \"Main Purpose Rule\" within \"Glynn v Margetson\" for a time became the basis of the common law of exemption clauses in English contract law, as shown in the case of \"Karsales v Wallis\". Here, a comprehensive and well-drafted exemption clause could not protect a car dealer who had supplied a used Buick with its cylinder head adrift. The court held that the contract was to supply a car (\"a vehicle capable of self-propulsion\"), so the Buick was not a \"car\", and the seller could not rely on a clause when there was \"breach of a fundamental obligation\". (Note that \"breach of a fundamental obligation\" seems little more than a rewording of \"Glynn v Margetson's\" \"breach of the main purpose\").\n\nHowever, the English law of contract has progressed beyond the \"Karsales\" case. The definitive statements of the common law of contract are the \"Suisse Atlantique\" and \"Photo Productions v Securicor\" These two cases provide that in the event of really serious breach, or fundamental breach, whether or not an exemption clause is effective is a question of construction, not of law; so that exemption clauses may not be automatically be ignored after a fundamental breach. The common law approach has been to some extent superseded by statutory provisions, such as the Unfair Contract Terms Act 1977, as amended by the Consumer Rights Act 2015. However, although the general law of contract has \"moved on\", the strict rule of \"Glynn v Margetson\" is, for the time being, still central to the law of deviation.\n\nWhen goods are carried by sea, they are effectively insured twice. First, prudent cargo-owners (shippers or consignees) will insure their cargo, and, secondly, carriers (shipowners) will have cover for third-party liability from their P&I Club. If the carrier is responsible for causing loss or damage, the P&I Club will pay; but if the carrier can avoid liability, say, via an exemption clause or via Article IV of the Hague-Visby Rules, the cargo-owner will have to make a claim on his own insurance.\n\nIf an unjustified deviation occurs, the voyage has changed, and the insurer may be discharged from subsequent liability. Under the policy, the insurer accepts only the agreed risks. A crucial policy requirement is that the ship shall proceed to her port of destination by the shortest and safest route (or usual route), and not to make any unjustified deviation.\n\nAn unjustifiable deviation does not necessarily avoid the policy, but it may cancel any liability of the underwriters for any loss incurred after the time of the deviation; but the insurer remains bound to indemnify any losses sustained prior to the deviation. Although the insurer is discharged from subsequent responsibility, he is normally entitled to retain the whole premium.\n\n"}
{"id": "10133683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10133683", "title": "Duke Journal of Gender Law &amp; Policy", "text": "Duke Journal of Gender Law &amp; Policy\n\nThe Duke Journal of Gender Law & Policy (DJGLP) is an interdisciplinary law journal published by students at the Duke University School of Law.\n\nThe journal describes itself as focusing on topics \"relating to gender, sexuality, race, and class in the context of law and public policy\" and with the mission to \"foster debate, to publish work largely overlooked by other law reviews, and to encourage scholarship outside the bounds of conventional law school curricula...[t]aking an expansive view of law, engaging other disciplines including literature, sociology, anthropology, psychology, politics, and critical theory. Our goal is not only to explore what the law was and is, but what it could and should be.\"\n\nPublished twice yearly, \"DJGLP\" issues are usually centered on a selected topic which in past years has included \"Gender and Race in Adoption,\" \"HIV Law and Policy,\" \"Gender and Sports,\" \"Gender Issues in Divorce,\" and \"Queer Theory.\" In January 2007, \"DJGLP\" published \"Makeup, Identity Performance & Discrimination,\" the largest issue ever published by any journal at Duke Law School. In May 2007, \"DJGLP\" published \"Gender, Sexuality & the Military,\" the second largest issue ever published by any journal at Duke Law School.\n\nThe staff of \"DJGLP\" consists of 25-30 student editors, selected for membership based on performance in the 1L Casenote Competition and the 2L Work-on/Note-on Program. The faculty advisor is Professor Katharine Bartlett, who provides general guidance and advises the editors in topic and author selection.\n\n"}
{"id": "47699841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47699841", "title": "EVidyaloka", "text": "EVidyaloka\n\neVidyaloka is a Bangalore-based NGO that focuses on imparting education to the rural students in India by crowdsourcing volunteer teachers and providing IT infrastructure to link the students in remote classrooms. \n\neVidyaloka as of Jan 2018 is focused on teaching English, maths and science subjects up to high school grade in Indian states of Andhra Pradesh, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and West Bengal. . Skype, Webex and Google Hangouts are preferred means of communication between teachers and students while Workplace by Facebook is used for internal communication..\n\nEVidyaloka recruits volunteer teachers ranging from retired teachers and housewives to graduate students, PhD scholars and working professionals, who need to be present online during school hours .\n\n"}
{"id": "248344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=248344", "title": "Edict", "text": "Edict\n\nAn edict is a decree or announcement of a law, often associated with monarchism, but it can be under any official authority. Synonyms include dictum and pronouncement.\n\n\"Edict\" derives from the Latin edictum. In the late 15th century the spelling was edycte and known as meaning a \"proclamation having the force of law\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3895674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3895674", "title": "Enjoining good and forbidding wrong", "text": "Enjoining good and forbidding wrong\n\nEnjoining what is right and forbidding what is wrong () are two important Islamic requisites from the Quran, \"you enjoin what is right and forbid what is reprehensible\", and are considered positive roles in helping others to take the straight path and abstain from reprehensible acts.\n\nThis expression is the base of the Islamic institution of \"hisbah\". It forms a central part of the Islamic doctrine for all Muslims. It is also explicitly referred to in two Ancillaries of the Faith in Shia Islam, commanding what is just and forbidding what is evil.\n\nalternative translation:\n\nalternative translation:\n\nOther examples include:\n\nAbu Sa‘id al-Khudri reported that the prophet Muhammad said, \"Whoever amongst you sees an evil, he must change it with his hand. If he is not able to do so, then with his tongue. And if he is not able to do so, then with his heart, and that is the weakest form of faith\".\n\nA standard medieval interpretation of this Hadith is, as Al-Nawawi had explained, that such passages of scripture had to be interpreted in accordance with established Shariah principles, such as the state's sole prerogative in declaring jihad. 'Changing the reprehensible by hand,' or by compulsion, was the purview of the state alone. 'Changing with the tongue' was the right of the ulama. Ordinary, individual Muslims should only reject the reprehensible with their hearts.\n\nA person should have knowledge of what is considered \"wajib\" (obligatory or duty) and \"haram\" (sinful or forbidden) in relation to interpreting the two requisites although in a broad-spectrum.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36188092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36188092", "title": "Fa (concept)", "text": "Fa (concept)\n\nFa (;) is a concept in Chinese philosophy that covers ethics, logic, and law. It can be translated as \"law\" in some contexts, but more often as \"model\" or \"standard.\" First gaining importance in the Mohist school of thought, the concept was principally elaborated in Legalism. In Han Fei's philosophy, the king is the sole source of \"fa\" (law), taught to the common people so that there would be a harmonious society free of chance occurrences, disorder, and \"appeal to privilege\". High officials were not to be held above \"fa\" (law or protocol), nor were they to be allowed to independently create their own \"fa\", uniting both executive fiat and rule of law.\n\nXunzi, a philosopher that would end up being foundational in Han dynasty Confucianism, also took up \"fa\", suggesting that it could only be properly assessed by the Confucian sage (ruler), and that the most important \"fa\" were the very rituals that Mozi had ridiculed for their ostentatious waste and lack of benefit for the people at large.\n\nThe concept of \"fa\" first gained importance in the Mohist school of thought. To Mozi, a standard must stand \"three tests\" in order to determine its efficacy and morality. The first of these tests was its origin; if the standard had precedence in the actions or thought of the semi-mythological sage kings of the Xia dynasty whose examples are frequently cited in classical Chinese philosophy. The second test was one of validity; does the model stand up to evidence in the estimation of the people? The third and final test was one of applicability; this final one is a utilitarian estimation of the net good that, if implemented, the standard would have on both the people and the state.\n\nThe third test speaks to the fact that to the Mohists, a \"fa\" was not simply an abstract model, but an active tool. The real-world use and practical application of \"fa\" were vital. Yet \"fa\" as models were also used in later Mohist logic as principles used in deductive reasoning. As classical Chinese philosophical logic was based on analogy rather than syllogism, \"fa\" were used as benchmarks to determine the validity of logical claims through comparison. There were three \"fa\" in particular that were used by these later Mohists (or \"Logicians\") to assess such claims, which were mentioned earlier. The first was considered a \"root\" standard, a concern for precedence and origin. The second, a \"source\", a concern for empiricism. The third, a \"use\", a concern for the consequence and pragmatic utility of a standard. These three \"fa\" were used by the Mohists to both promote social welfare and denounce ostentation or wasteful spending.\n\n"}
{"id": "38509288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38509288", "title": "Ficha Limpa", "text": "Ficha Limpa\n\nLei da Ficha Limpa (\"English:\" Clean Record Act) or Supplementary Law no. 135 of 2010 is a Brazilian act that amended the \"Conditions of Ineligibility Act\" (\"Supplementary Law no. 64\" of 1990). It was the fourth bill proposed by direct people's initiative as law in Brazil. It was devised by Judge Marlon Reis and received about 1.3 million signatures before being submitted to the National Congress. The act makes a candidate who has been impeached, has resigned to avoid impeachment, or been convicted by a decision of a collective body (with more than one judge) ineligible to hold public office for eight years, even if possible appeals remain.\n\nThe project was approved in the Chamber of Deputies on May 5, 2010 and by the Federal Senate on May 19, 2010 by unanimous vote. It was sanctioned by the President, Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, and became the Supplementary Law no. 135 of June 4, 2010. In February 2012, the Supreme Federal Court (STF) deemed the law constitutional and valid for the next elections to be held in Brazil, which was considered a victory for the position advocated by the Superior Electoral Court in the 2010 elections.\n\nThe story of the Bill 519/09 began with an anti-corruption campaign in February 1997 by the Brazilian Commission for Justice and Peace (CBJP), and the National Conference of Bishops of Brazil (CNBB). This project continued a 1996 fraternity campaign of the CNBB titled \"Brotherhood and Politics\".\n\nThe petition was delivered to Congress on September 24, 2009, with 85% of the signatures collected in the parishes and dioceses of the CNBB (24 September 2009). was approved after a national campaign for its approval, the Clean Record campaign, led by the Movement to Combat Electoral Corruption (MCCE). The movement worked over a year to collect 1.3 million signatures (1% of the national electorate) in 26 states of the federation and the Federal District. The campaign to send the Chamber of Delegates a bill of popular initiative also included mobilizing through Twitter, Facebook, Orkut and the Brazilian chapter of Avaaz, a global network of activists.\n\nThe first major challenge to the Clean Record Act for elections took place in the Supreme Electoral Tribunal. It concerned the 2010 general elections, presided by Justice Ricardo Lewandowski. By six votes to one, Justice Marco Aurélio's vote prevailed, holding that the law would apply to that year's election. Lewandowski, as president of the TSE, visited many Regional Electoral Courts, seeking the enforcement of the law.\n\nVisiting TRE Ceará, on 29 July 2010, the then-president of the Supreme Electoral Tribunal said:The TSE guides all TREs to adopt the Clean Record earlier this year. This is the orientation of the TSE, as we move away from the article 16 of the Constitution which deals with the principle of annuality, which is one device that law says that all entailing changes in the electoral process only comes into force a year later. But we said that this does not apply because there was a change in the electoral process|author=Enrique Ricardo Lewandowski|source=\n\nThis guidance told Regional Electoral Courts to apply the Clean Slate Law to the current elections. President of the Supreme Electoral Tribunal and Justice of the Supreme Court Ricardo Lewandowski in his 36-page opinion contended that the Clean Record Act already applied to the 2010 elections and should apply to candidates who were convicted or who resigned to escape impeachment, even before the new rules had come into force. For Lewandowski, the Law of Clean Record put a \"filter\" on Brazilian politics.\n\nons\nAfter the electoral court decision that upheld the validity for the 2010 elections, on account of criticisms made by members of the Supreme Court against the application of the law, such as Justice Gilmar Mendes and Marcus Aurelius. Several candidates barred by law from Clean Slate filed legal motions with the Supreme, for the right to run for office on the grounds that the law was unconstitutional or not in effect yet since another law bars changes in the electoral process that take effect the same election year. Those who were in favour of the law taking effect that year claimed, among other things, that the law would not change the election process, but only the rules for registration of candidates.\n\nOn Sept. 22, less than a month to the elections, the justices of the Federal Supreme Court (STF) began the trial of the case of Joaquim Roriz, a former senator who resigned in 2007 to escape a lawsuit for breach of parliamentary decorum. So Roriz, trying to fight the government of the Federal District for the fourth time, had his record challenged by lower courts. The outcome of this trial was important because it would define all other cases in that election. After Justice Carlos Ayres Britto, rapporteur for the case, voted in favour of the law being applied to Roriz, President Cezar Peluso interrupted the proceedings to question the constitutionality of the law. This surprised the other magistrates, and after a standoff, justice Dias Toffoli asked for in-chambers review. The trial resumed the next day, the 23rd, and the vote was tied, with five justices voting in favour and five against:\nIn favor: Carlos Ayres Britto, Carmen Lucia, Joaquim Barbosa, Ricardo Lewandowski, Ellen Gracie Northfleet.\nCons: Gilmar Mendes, Dias Toffoli, Marco Aurélio Mello, Celso de Mello, Cezar Peluso.\n\nThe court had at the time of the trial only ten justices, since justice had retired voluntarily on August 2, 2010 and the position had not been filled. Since the full court had an even number of justices and the vote tied at 5-5, intense arguments broke out between the justices. Cezar Peluso, the chief justice, chose to suspend judgement without announcing the result. According to \"O Globo\" the \"expectation is that the justices will return to the issue next Wednesday, four days before the election.\" The report also noted that possible results, according to the votes cast:\n\n\nThe Supreme Federal Court ruled in 2010 that the Clean Record law applies to that year's elections and applied to resigning the political office to escape impeachment process, even in situations that occurred before the law. The trial on the case of Congressman Jader Barbalho, again ended in a draw. Ricardo Lewandowski, Carmen Lucia, Ellen Gracie, Joaquim Barbosa and Ayres Britto again manifest by the immediate application of the law. Were against Marcus Aurelius, Dias Toffoli, Gilmar Mendes, Celso de Mello and Cezar Peluso. As a tiebreaker, by seven votes to three, it was decided that they would use Article 205 of the by-laws of the Supreme Court which says that \"having all justices voted, unless prevented or licensed by the remaining period exceeding three months, the impugned act shall prevail. \"well worth the decision of the Superior Electoral Court applicability in the elections of 2010.\n\nOn March 23, 2011, the validity of the election law was overturned in 2010 6-5 by the Supreme Court. The vote of Justice Luiz Fux - who had succeeded Eros Grau - ruled the law invalid under the constitution. The decision not to apply the law in that election directly benefited several candidates whose eligibility had been barred because of legal actions, such as Jader Barbalho, Joaquim Roriz and João Capiberibe. The Clean Record Act took effect only after the 2012 municipal elections, and was to be applied only if actually passed another vote on its constitutionality.\n\nEven though the law was found to have been applied on a constitutional basis, protests broke out and some politicians such as Senators Marinor Brito, Heloisa Helena and Pedro Simon, who remembered the popular mobilization and society entities for the civil construction of democracy in Brazil, and that the Law of Clean Record was a popular initiative that had over 1.6 million signatures.\n\nThe Order of Attorneys of Brazil (OAB) filed a declaratory action of constitutionality of the law, expected to be tried in the second half of 2011. [28] The trial was suspended from the beginning of November to the 28th due to a request from justice Joaquim Barbosa for in-chambers review. Besides its scope -- when it would take effect -- the Supreme Court was debating the constitutionality of the provision itself. This discussion was initiated by a lawsuit filed by OAB that tried to resolve any doubt about the constitutionality of the law.\n\nAfter that two more actions were entered. The three actions were:\n\n\nThey were tried jointly. The plenary session on February 15, 2012 was closed, suspending the trial, scheduled to resume on February 16, 2012 (Thursday). They expressed the parties as follows:\n\n\nOn February 16, 2012, the Supreme Court ruled that the law did not violate the Brazilian Constitution and was in force for the 2012 elections and for elections to come.\n\nSTF justices voted 7-4 in favour of the law. The affirmative votes were based on the \"principle of morality,\" in the ninth paragraph of Article 14 of the Constitution of Brazil: \"conditions of ineligibility to protect the administrative probity, morality for the exercise of mandate, considered the candidate's past life.\" The four dissenting opinions argued on the basis of the principle of presumption of innocence, in section 57 of Article 5 (an entrenched clause) of the Constitution of Brazil, which says that no one shall be considered guilty until a penal sentence was final and unappealable. The Clean Record Act says that anyone convicted of crime was ineligible for a collective body, even though recourse was still available, would become ineligible. Justices opposed to the constitutionality of the law deemed that section of the legislation unconstitutional. However, justice Ricardo Lewandowski said the presumption of innocence that applies to criminal cases, is not being wide enough to reach the text of the Clean Record.\n\nIn Novo Hamburgo a law was proposed to prohibit persons, convicted among other offences, of crimes against public faith and popular economy from being appointed to executive positions in the city administration. The city already had a similar law. In Ijuí on March 5, 2012 the Law of Clean Record (Law No. 5586) was enacted by the president of the City Council disciplining appointments in committee and functions gratified in the bodies of the executive and legislative branches.\n\nIn 2012 many municipalities are adapting their legislation to implement the Clean Record.\nBased on data released by the Superior Electoral Court, the Movement to Combat Electoral Corruption released a balance on 4 October 2007 with the parties that include the largest number of parliamentarians quashed by electoral corruption since 2000. The Brazilian Social Democracy Party appeared in third place on the list with 58 cases, behind only the Democrats and the Brazilian Democratic Movement.\n\nAccording to analysis released on 8 September 2012, of 317 Brazilian politicians who were barred from running in elections by the Clean Record Act the Brazilian Social Democracy Party is the party that has the largest number of barred candidates with 56 party members.\n\nThe law provides for the ineligibility of candidates who have been found guilty by courts of account, among other associations, without, however, requiring a final and unappealable conviction. Thus, some argue that the law goes against Article 5 subsection LVII of the Constitution of Brazil, the clause concerning the presumption of innocence. And furthermore, since these courts and entities do not hold the last word in the Brazilian courts, note justice Gilmar Mendes and columnist Reinaldo Azevedo. So could create up several courts with broad discretion in decision outside the legal framework. For instance, courts of accounts that can not pass the bill mayors, who would thus ineligible. Since the appointment of judges of the courts of account is made by state governors, it is feared the political use of state courts account, making ineligible mayors opposing the state government. Moreover, it is feared that the legislation hurts innocent people.\n\nTo this list are considered the number of candidates released by the Senate on record clean before the elections.\n\nObservations in this table:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9486941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9486941", "title": "Geltungsjude", "text": "Geltungsjude\n\nGeltungsjude was the term for people who were considered Jews by the first supplementary decree to the Nuremberg Laws from 14 November 1935. The term wasn't used officially, but was coined because the persons were deemed (\"gelten\" in German) Jews rather than exactly belonging to any of the categories of the previous Nuremberg Laws. There were three categories of Geltungsjuden: 1. offspring of an intermarriage who belonged to the Jewish community after 1935; 2. offspring of an intermarriage who was married to a Jew after 1935; 3. illegitimate child of a Geltungsjude, born after 1935.\n\nThe definition of these persons in the decree is as follows:\n\nEach of these is \"considered\" a Jew, hence the name \"Geltungsjude\". The term \"jüdischer Mischling\" in the first sentence means \"Jewish half-breed\". A person with two Jewish grandparents who satisfied none of the criteria (a) through (d) was not considered a \"Geltungsjude\" but a Mischling of the First Degree. (See also the article on the Mischling test.)\n\n\"Geltungsjuden\" were not citizens of the Reich anymore and did not have the right to vote. They were also prohibited to marry a \"quarter Jew\". In the Protectorate, they were routinely deported. They were sometimes deported from the \"Old Reich\" (Altreich), and only very rarely from Austria.\n\nIn contrast, while Mischlinge of the First Degree within the Old Reich were subject to various forms of discrimination, they were at least in principle exempt from deportation. Their status as \"provisional citizens\" was subject of an intra-regime tug-of-war between maximalists like Heydrich (who wanted them treated like Jews) and minimalists who pleaded against \"throwing out the Aryan with the Jewish blood\" (such as Wilhelm Stuckart and his assistant Hans Globke).\n\n"}
{"id": "39167062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39167062", "title": "Geographical Indications of Goods (Registration and Protection) Act, 1999", "text": "Geographical Indications of Goods (Registration and Protection) Act, 1999\n\nThe Geographical Indications of Goods (Registration and Protection) Act, 1999 (GI Act) is a \"sui generis\" Act of the Parliament of India for protection of geographical indications in India. India, as a member of the World Trade Organization (WTO), enacted the Act to comply with the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights. The GI tag ensures that none other than those registered as authorised users (or at least those residing inside the geographic territory) are allowed to use the popular product name. Darjeeling tea became the first GI tagged product in India, in 2004–05, since then 323 goods had been added to the list as of August 2018.\n\nAccording to section 2 (1)(e) of the Act, Geographical indication has been defined as \"an indication which identifies such goods as agricultural goods, natural goods or manufactured goods as originating, or manufactured in the territory of a country, or a region or locality in that territory, where a given quality, reputation or other characteristic of such goods is essentially attributable to its geographical origin and in case where such goods are manufactured goods one of the activities of either the production or of processing or preparation of the goods concerned takes place in such territory, region or locality, as the case may be.\"\n\nSome of the registered geographical indications includes, agricultural goods like Darjeeling tea, Malabar Pepper, Bangalore Blue Grapes, manufactured goods like Pochampalli Ikat, Kancheepuram Silk, solapuri chadars Bagh Prints, Madhubani paintings etc. The complete list is available at List of Geographical Indications in India.\n\n\nA GI is registered for an initial period of ten years, which may be renewed from time to time.\n\nUnder Section 9 of the Act, the following indications cannot be registered: \n\nRegistration of a GI gives its owner and the authorised users the exclusive right to use the indications on the good in which it is registered. Further, registration gives right to institution of suit against infringement and recovery of damages for such infringement. Infringement can be caused by use of the GI on such goods which indicates that such goods originate in such place other than its true place of origin or due to unfair competition. However, in case of non-registered GIs, a case of passing off can be instituted. Registration acts as a prima facie evidence of validity of the indication and ownership. The registration cannot be transferred, mortgaged, assigned or licensed, except in case of inheritance of the mark upon death of an authorised user.\n\nAny person who falsely applies or falsifies any geographical indication, tampers the origin of a good, make or have in possession of dye, blocks, machines to use in falsification of GI may be punished shall not be less than six months but which may extend to three years and with fine which shall not be less than fifty thousand rupees but which may extend to two lakhs rupees. In case of second and for every subsequent offence, a person can be punished with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than one year but which may extend to three years and with fine which shall not be less than one lakh rupees but which may extend to two lakh rupees. However, the judge may under certain condition may reduce the sentence, and reasons for reduction of punishment must be written in the judgment. Other offences includes, falsely represent a GI to be registered, falsification of entries in register, falsely representing a place to be connected with GI Registry.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3207104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3207104", "title": "Green development", "text": "Green development\n\nGreen development is a real estate development concept that carefully considers social and environmental impacts of development. It is defined by three sub-categories: environmental responsiveness, resource efficiency, and community and cultural sensitivity. Environmental responsiveness respects the intrinsic value of nature, and minimizes damage to an ecosystem. Resource efficiency refers to the use of fewer resources to conserve energy and the environment. Community and cultural sensitivity recognizes the unique cultural values that each community hosts and carefully considers them in real estate development, unlike more discernable signs of sustainability, like solar energy, (solar panels are more visibly \"green\" than the use of local materials). Green development manifests itself in various forms, however it is generally based on solution multipliers: features of a project that provide additional benefits, which ultimately reduce the projects' environmental impacts.\n\nGreen development emerged as a result of the environmental movement in the 1970s. In the real estate industry, use of the term commenced in 1987 with a report from the World Commission on Environment and Development, entitled \"Our Common Future\". The report includes 16 principles of environmental management, designed to foster green development. It also discusses the traditional model of macroeconomic growth, and its disregard for environmental consequences. Following this initial movement, the real estate industry experienced a back-and-forth relationship with \"green\" methodologies; environmental issues often came second behind purely economic factors. Incessant environmental concern and legislation affecting the real estate sector began to emerge, i.e. Green development. However, a common concern of green development is that it may increase project costs and completion times. Hence there has been an ongoing argument of whether green strategies can be sustainable as well as economically stimulating. National environmental attention has since worked its way down to real estate developers, and become an increasing priority. Developers today must work within the parameters of legislation that now considers the environmental implications of development.\n\nIn response to increasing public concern regarding environmental issues, governments have enacted legislation that regulates various aspects of the real estate industry, as well as other sectors of the economy. In the United States such legislation includes the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Coastal Zone Management Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA; also known as \"Superfund.\"). NEPA, enacted in 1970, changed how federal agencies made decisions because it required them to propose environmental analysis before starting a project. The Clean Air Act (1970) requires the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to set national standards for clean air and pollution control regulations. The Clean Water Act (1972) was designed to minimize pollution in natural bodies of water, and also to ensure water quality that protects drinking water sources and supports recreational activities such as fishing or swimming. The Coastal Zone Management Act (1972) manages the nation's coastal resources such as Great Lakes and estuaries. CERCLA is commonly referred to as \"Superfund\" because it comprises two trust funds that provide help to improve areas that have been polluted by hazardous waste. The Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 allows the government to lien a property that is being cleaned up. Additionally, the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) is California's most comprehensive piece of legislation regarding the environment. This act applies to all decisions made by cities and counties in California, and includes the mandate of an Environmental Impact Report (EIR), to both public and private projects. Subsequently, any new real estate development is subject to a detailed environmental analysis before starting a project.\n\nCalifornia's Senate Bill (SB) 375 (2008) is another piece of legislation that promotes green development. It aims to achieve California's climate goals via more efficient land use and development patterns. More specifically, SB 375 seeks to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions through close coordination between land-use and transportation. One way this is achieved is through demand-side measures. This strategy would decrease driving demand, and therefore reduce vehicle miles traveled (VMT), and ultimately reduce GHG emissions. For example, a demand-side policy component may include placing public transit stops near development, in order to maximize walkability.\n\nAdditionally, California state law requires minimum energy conservation levels for all new and/or existing development projects. The seller of a home is required to include information regarding energy conservation retrofitting and thermal insulation in the sales contract.\n\nSenate Bill 375 demonstrates an urban planning strategy called growth management. It is defined by a close coordination between land-use controls and capital investment and heavily motivated by environmental issues. It is defined by \"the regulation of the amount, timing, location, and character of development.\" As the name may suggest, growth management may not imply limiting any growth. \"Growth control\" carries the connotation of managing or limiting growth, and \"no growth\" would indicate stopping growth all together. Moreover, Growth Management requires the cooperation of all three of these connotations.\n\nUrban Growth Boundaries (UBG's), are popular growth management strategies. They are designed to encourage growth within a given boundary and discourage it outside the boundary. The goal of the UGB is to promote dense development, in order to decrease urban sprawl. This growth management technique ultimately seeks to revitalize central cities, and create vibrant, walk-able spaces for community development.\n\nThese clustered development patterns are solution multipliers. Reducing demand for infrastructure can save money and resources. These multipliers can increase walkability, which fosters social interaction and community togetherness.\n\nIn the US, commercial and residential buildings are the highest consumers of electricity and HVAC systems comprise a large portion of this usage. In fact, the US Department of Energy projects that 70% of the electricity used in the US is from buildings. Intelligent building methods such as occupancy detection systems, wireless sensor networks, and HVAC control systems aim to more efficient energy usage. A team of researchers at the University of San Diego, project that their smart building automation systems will save 10–15% in building energy.\n\nThe city of Pasadena, California has recently adopted a general plan based on seven guiding principles: community needs and quality of life, preservation of Pasadena's historic character, economic vitality, a healthy family community, lack of need for automobiles, promoted as a cultural, scientific, corporate, entertainment and educational center for the region, and community participation.\n\nThis project included environmental concern and social considerations in the process of construction. The Holly Street Village Apartments in Pasadena address several of the principles outlined in Pasadena's general plan. It incorporates mixed-use development with ground-floor retail center including a deli, a convenience store and an art gallery. Also, the Holly Street Village Apartments is located near a light rail station. The goal of these strategies is to reduce the demand for automobiles, and making it easier for people to use public transportation.\n\nZimmer Associates International, a real estate development firm, completed the Inn of the Anasazi in Santa Fe, New Mexico in 1991. Robert Zimmer (co-founder) and his partners, Steve Conger and Michael Fuller, set a goal to construct a building that would, \"showcase energy- and resource-saving technologies, strengthen local community, offer first class elegance, and financially reward its participants.\" The interior design of the hotel pays respect to the ancient Anasazi Indians, including locally crafted furniture, hand-made rugs, and Native American, Hispanic and cowboy wall art. The use of adobe on the exterior of the hotel includes the historic pueblo style. Also, Zimmer and his partners repurposed a steel-framed building that had previously been used in the 1960s as a juvenile detention center, instead of starting the project from the beginning. Other \"green\" characteristics of this Santa Fe hotel are skylights, energy-efficient lighting, and water-saving fixtures. Also, the Inn of the Anasazi stimulates the regional economy by purchasing locally grown organic food from Hispanic farmers. Lastly the Inn encourage that the staff participate in local nonprofit organizations and events that sponsor diverse local cultures. The Inn of the Anasazi integrates \"social and environmental goals with financial considerations…\"\n\nTaipei 101, stylized as TAIPEI 101, is a tall skyscraper located in Taipei, Taiwan which has received LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) certification from the U.S. Green Building Council as the highest score in history. In this project, \"TAIPEI\" is an acronym for \"technology,\" \"art,\" \"innovation,\" \"people,\" \"environment,\" and \"identity. Dr. Hubert Keiber, CEO of Siemens Building Automation in Taipei, stresses energy efficiency on the grounds that energy is the single largest expense for commercial buildings. Since 2011, the Taipei 101 has become the world's most environmentally responsible skyscraper, reducing water use, energy use, and carbon emissions all by 10%.\n\nGrowth management/limitation (discussed previously) manifests itself in Boulder, Colorado. The city of Boulder very tightly restricts housing development by limiting housing permits to 400 per year, which is 1 percent of the city's total housing stock. Additionally, the city has purchased land outside of the city limits, designated for permanent, green open space. This 400-unit cap seriously hinders population growth in the city.\n\nThis shortage of housing has several repercussions. First, it increases housing prices. Also, because Boulder restricts housing development more than it does commercial development, the number of available workers in Boulder grows faster than the housing stock. This results in many workers who commute from beyond the city limits.\n\nA common critique of green development is that it negatively affects the way real estate developers do business, as it can increase cost and create delay. For example, becoming LEED-certified can contribute to additional costs. This includes additional building design and construction fees, interior design and construction fees, building operations and maintenance fees, neighborhood development fees, home and campus fees, and volume program fees.\n\nAdditionally, green development has been critiqued on a residential level. High-performance homes have proven to save energy in the long run, but they rapidly increase up-front capital costs, via tankless water heaters, radiant barriers and reflective insulation systems, and high efficiency air conditioning systems. Also, developers are often unable to develop on certain portions of land due to conservation easements. These easements are purchased by governments or non-governmental organizations, in order to \"preserve land in its natural, scenic, agricultural, historical, forested, or open-space condition.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35124394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35124394", "title": "Helsinki Convention on the Protection of the Marine Environment of the Baltic Sea Area", "text": "Helsinki Convention on the Protection of the Marine Environment of the Baltic Sea Area\n\nConvention on the Protection of the Marine Environment of the Baltic Sea Area, 1992 (Helsinki Convention) is an international convention encompassing various measures for the prevention and elimination of pollution of the Baltic Sea.\n\nThe first Convention on the Protection of the Marine Environment of the Baltic Sea Area was signed by Denmark, Finland, West Germany, East Germany, Poland, USSR and Sweden in 1974 and entered into force on 3 May 1980.\nA new convention was signed in 1992 by Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Estonia, the European Community, Finland, Germany, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Russia and Sweden. The Convention on the Protection of the Marine Environment of the Baltic Sea Area, 1992, entered into force on 17 January 2000.\n\nThe States-Parties to the Convention agreed individually or jointly to take all appropriate legislative, administrative or other relevant measures to prevent and eliminate pollution in order to promote the ecological restoration of the Baltic Sea Area and the preservation of its ecological balance.\n\nThe Parties undertake to apply:\n\n\nThe aim of the States-Parties to the Convention is to prevent and eliminate pollution of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area caused by harmful substances from all sources, including:\n\n\nThe States-Parties to the Convention are obligated to notify and enter into consultations with each other when an environmental impact assessment of a proposed activity is likely to cause a significant adverse impact on the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area. Similarly, they are to notify and consult each other whenever a pollution incident in their territory is likely to cause pollution to the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area outside its territory and adjacent maritime area.\n\nThe Convention sets up a Baltic Marine Environment Protection Commission (HELCOM)(originally set up pursuant to the first Helsinki Convention, its functions subsequently reviewed), whose responsibilities are to implement the Convention, make recommendations to the Parties, define pollution control criteria and objectives and promote additional measures in co-operation with respective governmental bodies of the Parties.\n\nThe Parties also undertake to implement measures to maintain adequate ability and to respond to pollution incidents in order to eliminate or minimize the consequences of these incidents and regularly report to the HELCOM commission on and inform the general public of the measures taken in accordance with the Convention.\n"}
{"id": "57009374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57009374", "title": "IDA Indoor Climate and Energy", "text": "IDA Indoor Climate and Energy\n\nIDA Indoor Climate and Energy (IDA ICE) is a Building performance simulation (BPS) software. IDA ICE is a simulation application for the multi-zonal and dynamic study of indoor climate phenomenas as well as energy use. The implemented models are state of the art, many studies show that simulation results and measured data compare well.\n\nThe user interface of IDA ICE makes it easy to create simple cases but also offers the flexibility to go into detail of advanced studies. Many inputs are adaptable to local requirements such as climate data, material data, system components or result reports. IDA ICE provides a 3D environment for geometry modeling, the table-based input of boundary conditions provide good visual feedback and enables efficient quality check. A simple procedure for calculating and reporting cooling, heating, air demand, and energy, together with a built-in version handling system, makes it efficient to compare different systems and results. \n\nAdvanced daylight calculation are achieved by interfacing the Radiance lighting simulation tool with result visualization in the 3D environment. A module for Appendix G of ASHRAE 90.1-2010 is available, this is used for example in LEED and BREEAM. The integrated radiosity method with single reflexion and one measuring point can be used for whole-year daylight analysis and allows modeling daylight-based control strategies (e.g. shading devices, artificial lightening).\n\nThere is also the \"Early Stage Building Optimization\" (ESBO) user interface which makes it possible for users to experiment with variations in both buildings and systems at an early stage with a minimum of user input. A full range of component models for renewable energy studies is available, with boreholes, stratified tanks, heat pumps, solar collectors, CHP, PV, wind turbines, etc.\n\nAn interface with OpenFOAM for detailed CFD studies is in development.\n\nIDA ICE can be used for complete energy and design studies, involving the envelope, systems, plant and control strategies. The equation-based approach enables solving more complex mathematical problems than software using imperative programming languages. The IDA ICE model library is open source, the model equations can be viewed and adapted, every variable in the whole system can be logged. The flexible architecture of the software makes it easy to develop the software continuously to adapt it to local requirements and languages, and to expand it with new capabilities. Additional features like parametric simulation runs and visual scripting support decision making in a parametric design process. The coupling with optimization engines like GenOpt is available directly in the program.\n\nThe big advantage compared to other BPS software is the coupled simulation of building envelope, systems and controls. IDA ICE library components are either written in the Neutral Model Format (NMF) or Modelica. The software is fully scriptable with Common LISP. The IDA general purpose solver comes with a variable timestep, which guarantees that no event in the system will be missed.\n\nIDA ICE supports IFC BIM models generated by tools such as ArchiCAD, Revit, MagiCAD, and others. Geometry an shading on site can also be imported from SketchUp, Rhino or other geometry tools. Solar influx is evaluated through windows (also internal) with full 3D accounting for the local shading situation. Additionally it has an integrated geometry editor where building and zone geometry can be modeled with 2D architectural drawings or pictures serving as template.\n\nClimate files like EnergyPlus weather files (EPW) or ASHRAE climate files, can be downloaded and installed. The table-based input structure allows full interoperability with MS Excel and comparable software. Modern features like copy and paste and Drag&drop combined with visual input data check make input data management easier.\n\nIDA ICE output include tables, charts, reports and plots. 3D visualizations (both stills and animations) show geometry, solar shadings, color coded input data as well as results. Arrow animations in 3D visualize ventilation air flows, window energy balance, and wind driven flows. There are special reports for LEED submittal forms included. The diagram plots deliver vector graphics which allows detailed result analysis in custom reports. Results can be exported to Microsoft Word or Excel. A single zone IDA ICE model with default systems comprises a total of approximately 2 000 time dependent variables, any of which may be plotted.\n\nPredfined output files and reports cover\n"}
{"id": "33621198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33621198", "title": "Indirect infringement in Canadian copyright law", "text": "Indirect infringement in Canadian copyright law\n\n\"Authorization\" and \"Secondary Infringement\" are two instances of \"indirect infringement\" in Canadian Copyright law. In cases of indirect infringement, individuals can be held liable for infringement even where they did not personally make the copies of the copyrighted subject-matter. This expands the scope of liability. The Canadian courts have dealt with these concepts in a number of cases, several of which will be elaborated upon below.\n\nA copyright owner has the right to authorize any of the acts found in S. 3(1) of the Copyright Act [see below]. Anyone who grants, or purports to grant, the right to reproduce or perform a work has authorized it. He is liable for copyright infringement.\n\nS. 27(1): Infringement Generally: It is an infringement of copyright for any person to do, without the consent of the owner of the copyright, anything that by this Act only the owner of the copyright has the right to do.\n\nS. 3. (1): For the purposes of this Act, \"copyright\", in relation to a work, means the sole right to produce or reproduce the work or any substantial part thereof in any material form whatever, to perform the work or any substantial part thereof in public or, if the work is unpublished, to publish the work or any substantial part thereof, and includes the sole right\n\n(a) to produce, reproduce, perform or publish any translation of the work,\n\n(b) in the case of a dramatic work, to convert it into a novel or other non-dramatic work,\n\n(c) in the case of a novel or other non-dramatic work, or of an artistic work, to convert it into a dramatic work, by way of performance in public or otherwise,\n\n(d) in the case of a literary, dramatic or musical work, to make any sound recording, cinematograph film or other contrivance by means of which the work may be mechanically reproduced or performed,\n\n(e) in the case of any literary, dramatic, musical or artistic work, to reproduce, adapt and publicly present the work as a cinematographic work,\n\n(f) in the case of any literary, dramatic, musical or artistic work, to communicate the work to the public by telecommunication,\n\n(g) to present at a public exhibition, for a purpose other than sale or hire, an artistic work created after June 7, 1988, other than a map, chart or plan,\n\n(h) in the case of a computer program that can be reproduced in the ordinary course of its use, other than by a reproduction during its execution in conjunction with a machine, device or computer, to rent out the computer program, and\n\n(i) in the case of a musical work, to rent out a sound recording in which the work is embodied,\n\nand to authorize any such acts \n\nThe Supreme Court of Canada defines and discusses the definition of \"authorization\" in a 2004 case, CCH Canadian Ltd. v. Law Society of Upper Canada. In this case, the LSUC, which maintains and operates the Great Library at Osgoode Hall, engaged in two relevant behaviours.\n\nThe relevant issue for the court with regard to \"authorization\" is whether the Law Society authorized copyright infringement by maintaining self-service photocopy machines, allowing members to illegally photocopy copyrighted material. The court found that it did not. In the court’s analysis, it concluded that \"authorization\" in Canadian Copyright law has the following characteristics:\n\n\nHowever, some aspects of authorization remain unclear. While \"authorization\" is considered a primary infringement (rather than secondary infringement, which will be discussed later), it is not clear whether liability for authorizing infringement requires that actual infringement has taken place. According to Vaver, an expert in the field, actual infringement is required. According to University of Toronto Law Professor, Ariel Katz, the decision in CCH is policy driven: preventing photocopying in libraries would shift the balance of copyright too far in favour of owner’s rights, and unnecessarily interfere with the proper use of copyrighted works for the good of society as a whole.\n\nBMG was an attempt by the record companies to sue individuals for copyright infringement of their songs. The court said that, according to S. 80(1) of the Copyright Act, making a personal copy of a sound recording for one's own private purposes is not infringement. The record companies went further, suggesting that the individuals were involved in authorization of copyright infringement, since they were members of a peer (shared) network. The court disagreed, and suggested that there is no difference between making personal copies and making a shared folder. The court uses an analogy: there is no difference between a library full of copyrighted materials with a self-service photocopier, per CCH, and making a shared folder on the Internet. Therefore, the mere fact of placing a copy on a shared directory in a computer where that copy can be accessed via a peer-to-peer service does not amount to distribution, and hence authorization. According to the case, \"before it constitutes distribution, there must be a positive act by the owner of the shared directory, such as sending out the copies or advertising that they are available for copying.\" Some experts, such as University of Toronto Law Professor Ariel Katz, suggest that the analogy to CCH is flawed, since library use is far more constrained and requires higher transaction costs than does Internet use.\n\nA person is a secondary infringer where he knows or should have known that a work either a) infringes a copyright or, b) would infringe a copyright had it been made in Canada (hypothetical infringement test) and, without the consent of the copyright owner he does anything set out in S. 27(2) of the Copyright Act [see below]. If a person turns a blind eye or honestly but mistakenly believes the goods are non-infringing, he will still be presumed to have the requisite knowledge. There can only be secondary infringement if there has been a primary infringement.\n\nS. 27(2) It is an infringement of copyright for any person to\n\n(a) sell or rent out,\n\n(b) distribute to such an extent as to affect prejudicially the owner of the copyright,\n\n(c) by way of trade distribute, expose or offer for sale or rental, or exhibit in public,\n\n(d) possess for the purpose of doing anything referred to in paragraphs (a) to (c), or\n\n(e) import into Canada for the purpose of doing anything referred to in paragraphs (a) to (c),\n\na copy of a work, sound recording or fixation of a performer’s performance or of a communication signal that the person knows or should have known infringes copyright or would infringe copyright if it had been made in Canada by the person who made it.\n\nAccording to CCH, S. 27(2) requires 3 things:\n\nEuro-Excellence Inc. v. Kraft Canada Inc. involves the plaintiff, Kraft Canada, who sues the defendant, Euro-Excellence, for importing chocolate bars with a copyrighted logo into Canada for the purpose of sale and distribution (parallel importation). Parallel importation takes place where a product is imported from abroad to be sold locally. The issue is whether parallel importation is secondary infringement pursuant to s. 27(2)(e).\n\nThe case is composed of four distinct judgments:\n\n\nWith four judgments, it is hard to grasp where the law lies. According to Vaver, the case stands for the following: that an exclusive licensee cannot sue the importer of non-copyrighted materials (i.e. the chocolate bars) based on the incidental copyrighted subject matter associated with it (i.e. the wrappers). That is, if the copyright had been assigned to Kraft Canada (rather than exclusively licensed), parallel importation of a genuinely copyrighted product (rather than the incidental copyright of the chocolate wrapper) would be an infringement according to S. 27(2)(e). Therefore, parallel importation of copyright materials is an infringement according to S. 27(2)(e) where the copyright owner is an assignee.\n\nAccording to intellectual property expert and professor, Ariel Katz, S. 27(2)(e) is not meant to prevent parallel importation and the resulting market arbitrage. Rather, its purpose is to prevent regulatory arbitrage (protecting the integrity of Canada’s regulatory sovereignty). Section 3 of the Copyright Act does not give a general distribution right; it only gives the right to make copies and publish a work if it is unpublished. This means that a copyright owner does not have the right to prevent parallel importation if he owns the copyright in both countries, since he does not have the general right to distribute (so cannot exclude others). Thus, he should not be able to prevent parallel importation merely by assigning his copyright. He cannot assign a right that did not exist in the first place. Moreover, Canadian law does not prevent parallel trade domestically (that is, between provinces), so there is no reason to prevent it internationally.\n"}
{"id": "986842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=986842", "title": "Insubordination", "text": "Insubordination\n\nInsubordination is the act of willfully disobeying an order of one's superior. Refusing to perform an action that is unethical or illegal is not insubordination; neither is refusing to perform an action that is not within the scope of authority of the person issuing the order.\n\nInsubordination is generally a punishable offense in hierarchical organizations which depend on people lower in the chain of command doing what they are expected to do.\n\nInsubordination is when a serviceman or servicewoman willfully disobeys the lawful orders of a superior officer. If a military officer were to disobey the lawful orders of their civilian superiors, this would also count. For example, the head of state in many countries, is also the most superior officer of the military as the Commander in Chief. (see Civilian control of the military) Generally, an officer or soldier may be insubordinate to the point of mutiny if given an unlawful order, however. (see Nuremberg defense)\n\nIn the U.S. military, insubordination is covered under Article 91 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice. It covers disobeying lawful orders as well as disrespectful language or even striking a superior. The article for insubordination should not be confused with the article for contempt. While Article 91 of the UCMJ deals predominately with disobeying or disrespecting a superior and applies to enlisted members and warrant officers, Article 88 involves the use of contemptuous words against certain appointed or elected officials and only applies to commissioned officers.\n\nOther types of hierarchical structures, especially corporations, may use insubordination as a reason for dismissal or censure of an employee.\n\nThere have been court cases in the United States which have involved charges of insubordination from the employer with counter charges of infringement of First Amendment rights from the employee. A number of these cases have reached the U.S. Supreme Court usually involving a conflict between an institution of higher education and a faculty member.\n\nIn the modern workplace in the Western world, hierarchical power relationships are usually sufficiently internalized so that the issue of formal charges of insubordination are rare. In his book \"Disciplined Minds\", American physicist and writer Jeff Schmidt points out that professionals are trusted to run organizations in the interests of their employers. Because employers cannot be on hand to manage every decision, professionals are trained \"to make sure that the subtext of each and every detail of their work advances the right interests—or skewers the disfavored ones\" in the absence of overt control.\n\nThere have been a number of famous and notorious people who have committed insubordination or publicly objected to an organizational practice.\n\n"}
{"id": "20165898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20165898", "title": "Integrated circuit layout design protection", "text": "Integrated circuit layout design protection\n\nLayout designs (topographies) of integrated circuits are a field in the protection of intellectual property.\n\nIn United States intellectual property law, a \"mask work\" is a two or three-dimensional layout or topography of an integrated circuit (IC or \"chip\"), i.e. the arrangement on a chip of semiconductor devices such as transistors and passive electronic components such as resistors and interconnections. The layout is called a \"mask\" work because, in photolithographic processes, the multiple etched layers within actual ICs are each created using a mask, called the photomask, to permit or block the light at specific locations, sometimes for hundreds of chips on a wafer simultaneously.\n\nBecause of the functional nature of the mask geometry, the designs cannot be effectively protected under copyright law (except perhaps as decorative art). Similarly, because individual lithographic mask works are not clearly protectable subject matter, they also cannot be effectively protected under patent law, although any processes implemented in the work may be patentable. So since the 1990s, national governments have been granting copyright-like exclusive rights conferring time-limited exclusivity to reproduction of a particular layout. Term of integrated circuit rights are usually shorter than copyrights applicable on pictures.\n\nA diplomatic conference was held at Washington, D.C., in 1989, which adopted a Treaty on Intellectual Property in Respect of Integrated Circuits, also called the Washington Treaty or IPIC Treaty. The Treaty, signed at Washington on May 26, 1989, is open to States Members of WIPO or the United Nations and to intergovernmental organizations meeting certain criteria. The Treaty has been incorporated by reference into the TRIPS Agreement of the World Trade Organization (WTO), subject to the following modifications: the term of protection is at least 10 (rather than eight) years from the date of filing an application or of the first commercial exploitation in the world, but Members may provide a term of protection of 15 years from the creation of the layout-design; the exclusive right of the right-holder extends also to articles incorporating integrated circuits in which a protected layout-design is incorporated, in so far as it continues to contain an unlawfully reproduced layout-design; the circumstances in which layout-designs may be used without the consent of right-holders are more restricted; certain acts engaged in unknowingly will not constitute infringement.\n\nThe IPIC Treaty is currently not in force, but was partially integrated into the TRIPS agreement.\n\nArticle 35 of TRIPS in Relation to the IPIC Treaty states:\n\nMembers agree to provide protection to the layout-designs (topographies) of integrated circuits (referred to in this Agreement as \"layout-designs\") in accordance with Articles 2 through 7 (other than paragraph 3 of Article 6), Article 12 and paragraph 3 of Article 16 of the Treaty on Intellectual Property in Respect of Integrated Circuits and, in addition, to comply with the following provisions.TRIPS Document\n\nArticle 2 of the IPIC Treaty gives the following definitions:\n(i) 'integrated circuit' means a product, in its final form or an intermediate form, in which the elements, at least one of which is an active element, and some or all of the inter-connections are integrally formed in and/or on a piece of material and which is intended to perform an electronic function,\n\n(ii) 'layout-design (topography)' means the three-dimensional disposition, however expressed, of the elements, at least one of which is an active element, and of some or all of the interconnections of an integrated circuit, or such a three-dimensional disposition prepared for an integrated circuit intended for manufacture ...\nUnder the IPIC Treaty, each Contracting Party is obliged to secure, throughout its territory, exclusive rights in layout-designs (topographies) of integrated circuits, whether or not the integrated circuit concerned is incorporated in an article. Such obligation applies to layout-designs that are original in the sense that they are the result of their creators' own intellectual effort and are not commonplace among creators of layout designs and manufacturers of integrated circuits at the time of their creation.\n\nThe Contracting Parties must, as a minimum, consider the following acts to be unlawful if performed without the authorization of the holder of the right: the reproduction of the lay-out design, and the importation, sale or other distribution for commercial purposes of the layout-design or an integrated circuit in which the layout-design is incorporated. However, certain acts may be freely performed for private purposes or for the sole purpose of evaluation, analysis, research or teaching.\n\nThe United States Code (USC) defines a mask work as \"a series of related images, however fixed or encoded, having or representing the predetermined, three-dimensional pattern of metallic, insulating, or semiconductor material present or removed from the layers of a semiconductor chip product, and in which the relation of the images to one another is such that each image has the pattern of the surface of one form of the semiconductor chip product\" [(17 U.S.C. § 901(a)(2))]. Mask work exclusive rights were first granted in the US by the Semiconductor Chip Protection Act of 1984.\n\nAccording to , rights in semiconductor mask works last 10 years. This contrasts with a term of 95 years for modern copyrighted works with a corporate authorship; alleged infringement of mask work rights are also not protected by a statutory fair use defense, nor by the typical backup copy exemptions that provides for computer software. Nevertheless, as fair use in copyrighted works was originally recognized by the judiciary over a century before being codified in the Copyright Act of 1976, it is possible that the courts might likewise find a similar defense applies to mask work.\n\nThe non-obligatory symbol used in a mask work protection notice is Ⓜ (M enclosed in a circle; Unicode code point codice_1 or HTML numeric character entity codice_2) or *M*.\n\nThe exclusive rights in a mask work are somewhat like those of copyright: the right to reproduce the mask work or (initially) distribute an IC made using the mask work. Like the first sale doctrine, a lawful owner of an authorized IC containing a mask work may freely import, distribute or use, but not reproduce the chip (or the mask). Mask work protection is characterized as a \"sui generis\" right, i.e., one created to protect specific rights where other (more general) laws were inadequate or inappropriate.\n\nNote that the exclusive rights granted to mask work owners are more limited than those granted to copyright or patent holders. For instance, modification (derivative works) is not an exclusive right of mask work owners. Similarly, the exclusive right of a patentee to \"use\" an invention would not prohibit an independently created mask work of identical geometry. Furthermore, reproduction for reverse engineering of a mask work is specifically permitted by the law. As with copyright, mask work rights exist when they are created, regardless of registration, unlike patents, which only confer rights after application, examination and issuance.\n\nMask work rights have more in common with copyrights than with other exclusive rights such as patents or trademarks. On the other hand, they are used alongside copyright to protect a read-only memory (ROM) component that is encoded to contain computer software.\n\nThe publisher of software for a cartridge-based video game console may seek simultaneous protection of its property under several legal constructs:\n\n\nOrdinary copyright law applies to the underlying software (source, binary) and original characters and art.\nBut the expiration date for the term of \"additional\" exclusive rights in a work distributed in the form of a mask ROM would depend on an untested interpretation of the originality requirement of § 902(b):\n(b) Protection under this chapter (i.e., as a mask work) shall not be available for a mask work that—\n\nUnder one interpretation, a mask work containing a given game title is either entirely unoriginal, as mask ROM in general is likely a familiar design, or a minor variation of the mask work for any of the first titles released for the console in the region.\n\nEquivalent legislation exists in Australia, India and Hong Kong.\n\nAustralian law refers to mask works as \"eligible layouts\" or ELs.\n\nIn Canada these rights are protected under the [Integrated Circuit Topography Act (1990, c. 37)].\n\nIn the European Union, a \"sui generis\" design right protecting the design of materials was introduced by the Directive 87/54/EEC which is transposed in all member states.\n\nIndia has the Semiconductor Integrated Circuits Layout Design Act, 2000 for the similar protection.\n\nJapan relies on \"The Act Concerning the Circuit Layout of a Semiconductor Integrated Circuit\".\n\nBrazil has enacted Law No. 11484, of 2007, to regulate the protection and registration of integrated circuit topography.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32901939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32901939", "title": "Interdicts in Scots law", "text": "Interdicts in Scots law\n\nIn Scots law, an interdict is a court order to stop someone from breaching someone else's rights. They can be issued by the Court of Session or a Sheriff Court. The equivalent term in England is an injunction. A temporary interdict is called an interim interdict. A court will grant an interim interdict if there is a prima facie case and on the balance of convenience the remedy should be granted. Breaching an interdict can result in a fine or imprisonment.\n\n"}
{"id": "10502486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10502486", "title": "Internet police", "text": "Internet police\n\nInternet police is a generic term for police and government agencies, departments and other organizations in charge of policing Internet in a number of countries. The major purposes of Internet police, depending on the state, are fighting cybercrime, as well as censorship and propaganda.\n\nSeveral attempts have been made to introduce tools that would allow law enforcement and security agencies to eavesdrop online communications without a warrant, the latest of which was bill C-30, tabled in February 2012 which was abandoned because of strong public opposition.\n\nThe Computer Emergency Response Team of Estonia (CERT Estonia), established in 2006, is an organization responsible for the management of security incidents in .ee computer networks. Its task is to assist Estonian Internet users in the implementation of preventive measures in order to reduce possible damage from security incidents and to help them in responding to security threats. CERT Estonia deals with security incidents that occur in Estonian networks, are started there, or have been notified of by citizens or institutions either in Estonia or abroad.\n\n\"Cyber Crime Investigation Cell\" is a wing of Mumbai Police, India, to deal with computer crimes, and to enforce provisions of India's Information Technology Law, namely, The Information Technology Act, 2000, and various cyber crime related provisions of criminal laws, including the Indian Penal Code, and the Companies Act of India subsection on IT-Sector responsibilities of corporate measures to protect cybersecurity. Cyber Crime Investigation Cell is a part of Crime Branch, Criminal Investigation Department of the Mumbai Police.\n\n\"Andhra Pradesh Cyber Crime Investigation Cell\" is a wing of Hyderabad Police, India, to deal with Cyber crimes.\n\nIndian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In) also deals with Cyber Security.\n\"Cyber Police\", the Hi-Tech Crime Enquire Cell of the Kerala Police.\n\nDutch police were reported to have set up an Internet Brigade to fight cybercrime. It will be allowed to infiltrate Internet newsgroups and discussion forums for intelligence gathering, to make pseudo-purchase and to provide services.\n\nIt has been reported that in 2005, departments of provincial and municipal governments in mainland China began creating teams of Internet commentators from propaganda and police departments and offering them classes in Marxism, propaganda techniques, and the Internet. They are reported to guide discussion on public bulletin boards away from politically sensitive topics by posting opinions anonymously or under false names.\n\nChinese Internet police also erase anti-communist comments and posts pro-government messages. Chinese Communist Party leader Hu Jintao has declared the party's intent to strengthen administration of the online environment and maintain the initiative in online opinion.\n\nAfter the 2006 coup in Thailand, the Thai police has been active in monitoring and silencing dissidents online. Censorship of the Internet is carried out by the Ministry of Information and Communications Technology of Thailand and the Royal Thai Police, in collaboration with the Communications Authority of Thailand and the Telecommunication Authority of Thailand.\n\nOn 29 April 2010, Wipas Raksakulthai was arrested on charges of lèse majesté following a post to his Facebook account criticizing King Bhumibol. In May 2011, Amnesty International named him a prisoner of conscience.\"\n\nThe Internet Watch Foundation (IWF) is the only recognised organisation in the United Kingdom operating an Internet 'Hotline' for the public and IT professionals to report their exposure to potentially illegal content online. It works in partnership with the police, Government, the public, Internet service providers and the wider online industry.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "697336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=697336", "title": "Judge Advocate General of the Armed Forces", "text": "Judge Advocate General of the Armed Forces\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the Judge Advocate General and Judge Martial of all the Forces is a judge responsible for the court-martial process within the Royal Navy, British Army and Royal Air Force. As such the post has existed since 2008; prior to this date the Judge Advocate General's authority related to the Army and the RAF while the Judge Advocate of the Fleet was his equivalent with regard to the Royal Navy.\n\nA Judge Martial is recorded as serving under the Earl of Leicester in the Netherlands in 1587-88. There were Judge Advocates on both sides during the English Civil War and following the Restoration the office of Judge Advocate of the Army (soon to be known as Judge Advocate General) was established on a permanent basis in 1666. Since 1682 the Judge Advocate General has been appointed by Letters patent of the Sovereign; until 1892 most Judge Advocates were Members of Parliament, indeed from 1806 the office was a political one, the holder resigning on a change of Government. After 1892 the role of Judge Advocate General became a judicial rather than a ministerial office; at first it was combined with the President of the Probate Divorce and Admiralty Division before being made fully independent in 1905.\n\nThe Judge Advocate General has been entitled to appoint Deputies since 1682.\n\nThe Judge Advocate General is Head of the Service Justice System and is one of the Law Officers of the Crown. The Judge Advocate General is the senior Judge Advocate and is the overall lead for the jurisdiction (i.e. is not under the authority of the Lord Chief Justice or any other presiding judge).\n\nThe Judge Advocate General is assisted by a team of judges who comprise the permanent judiciary, plus a small staff of civil servants. There is a total of seven judges, comprising one Vice-Judge Advocate General, and six Assistant Judge Advocates General, all of whom must be barristers or advocates of seven years standing. As Judge Advocates they preside over all proceedings in the Service courts, which comprise the Court Martial, the Summary Appeal Court, and the Service Civilian Court. The judges control the practice and procedure, give rulings on legal matters, and sum up the evidence for the jury (known as a \"Board\"). Defendants are entitled to a defending counsel or solicitor, and their unit may provide an Accused's Assisting Officer if they so wish.\n\nThe Judge Advocate General's office holds cases deposited the originals of all Records of Proceedings, which are kept for at least six years. \n\nHistorically the Judge Advocate General had responsibility for prosecuting cases as well as for summoning and supervising the court. In 1923 moves were made to separate responsibility for prosecutions from the judicial responsibilities of the Judge Advocate General's office; complete separation was achieved 25 years later with the establishment of the Directorate of Army Legal Services in the War Office (and a parallel Directorate in the Air Ministry).\n\nIn the 1990s significant changes to the courts-martial system were instigated following European Court of Human Rights judgments. The Judge Advocate General was formerly the legal adviser of the Armed Forces, a role that ended in 2000. In both naval and military cases, all proceedings in the Military Courts of the United Kingdom are held under his or her authority (the former office of Judge Advocate of the Fleet having been amalgamated into that of the Judge Advocate General in 2008). Previously the Royal Navy, the British Army and the Royal Air Force had separate court martial arrangements, but all three Services have operated under a single system of Service law since November 2009.\n\nThe former practice of reviewing the findings and sentences of all trials of the old courts-martial was abolished in October 2009. Now the outcome of each trial in the Court Martial (now a standing court) is final, subject to appeal to the Court Martial Appeal Court. The Judge Advocate General also has power to refer a case to the Court Martial Appeal Court if it gives rise to an important point of law.\nThe post is regulated by the Courts-Martial (Appeals) Act 1951. The appointment is made by the British Sovereign on the recommendation of the Lord Chancellor. Formerly, the Judge Advocate General had to be a barrister, advocate, or solicitor with higher rights of audience, of 10 years' standing. As of 21 July 2008 the experience needed to qualify was reduced in line with a general move to broaden diversity in the judiciary. An appointee who has practised in England and Wales now has to satisfy the judicial-appointment eligibility condition on a 7-year basis, while a practitioner from Scotland or Northern Ireland will need 7-years' standing as barrister, advocate or solicitor. The post is always held by a civilian rather than a commissioned officer, however an appointee may have previously been a member of the armed forces. In practice the post is held by a Senior Circuit Judge.\n\nThe Judge Advocate General can also be appointed from the Vice Judge Advocate General or Assistant Judge Advocates General.\n\nThrough 1847, the dates are those of actual entrance upon office, not of the appointment, which is usually a few days earlier; or of the patent, commonly some days later than those adopted in this list. After 1847 the dates are those of the \"Gazette\" notices of the appointment.\n\nIncludes material from: Haydn's \"Book of Dignities\", 12th ed. (1894; reprinted 1969)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58765288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58765288", "title": "Maine Wabanaki-State Truth and Reconciliation Commission", "text": "Maine Wabanaki-State Truth and Reconciliation Commission\n\nThe Maine-Wabanaki State Child Welfare Truth and Reconciliation Commission, also known as the MWTRC was a commission looking at events relating to Wabanaki children and families from 1978, when the Indian Child Welfare Act (ICWA) was passed, until now. The Commission was officially established on February 12, 2012 and issued its final report on June 14, 2015. The MWTRC's mandate was to find Truth, Healing and Change by giving the Wabanaki people and others involved within the Maine Child Welfare System a place to voice their stories and experiences. The final report addressed findings made my the commission and provided recommendations to improve compliance with the ICWA.\nThe \"Algonquian-speaking Wabanaki People\" have occupied many of the Maritime areas in Canada (Quebec, Newfoundland, Prince Edward Island, Nova-Scotia and New Brunswick) and the United States (Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont and Massachusetts) for thousands of years. According to the \"Institute for the Study of Human Rights at Columbia University\", the Wabanaki people share a history of experiencing discriminatory policies. The Doctrine of Discovery (DOD) is one of the policies which was cited a number of times by individuals interviewed by the MWTRC as \"the foundation of oppression of Wabanaki Tribes.\" It has been institutionalized in Unites States Law by Supreme Court Cases and was responsible for giving Christian Colonizers the power to enslave Indigenous People and take control of their lands. The DOD was also responsible for the creation of the Indian Schooling Board System in the United States which developed schools like the Carlisle Indian Industrial School (1879-1918) whose main purpose was to assimilate Indian children into mainstream culture. More than 10 000 aboriginal children attended Carlisle, 186 of whom died while attending.\n\nIn 1958, the Indian Adoption Project (IAP) was put in place by the help of the United States federal government, the Child Welfare League and the Bureau of Indian Affairs. The IAP replaced the institutionalization of Native Children within Boarding School \"with a policy of placing Native children for adoption into white homes.\" In 1966, the IAP was replaced by the Adoption Resource Exchange of North America (ARENA), which continued the work of the IAP by placing Native Indian Children in white homes. Although official numbers cite the IAP as being responsible for only 395 Native Children, others have argued that in its scope (IAP & ARENA) it has been responsible for the adoption of over 12,486 Native children between 1961 and 1976. \n\nIn 1978, the United States Federal Government put in place the Indian Child Welfare Act in response to the crisis affecting Native children and families. Research had found 25% to 30% of Native children were being taken from their homes and that 85% of these children were being placed outside of their families and communities even when relatives deemed fit and willing were available. The ICWA was created to protect \"Indian Childrens' best interest\" while promoting \"the stability and security of Indian tribes and families\".\n\nWhen the Maine Wabanaki-State Truth and Reconciliation Commission was created, it had seven objectives: \n\n\n\nWhen the WBTRC submitted its final report it had gathered approximately a hundred and fifty nine statements from native and non-native individuals which included native elders, foster parents, former children who were in the child welfare system, judges, tribal attorneys, former DHHS caseworkers and leaders, service providers and adoptees. Members from all four Wabanaki groups -- the Maliseet, Micmac, Passamaquoddy and Penobscot -- participated in the WBTRC.\n\nPrincipal findings from the MWTRC included that aboriginal children were 5.1 times more likely to be put into foster care than other children, and that federal reviews from from 2006 and 2009 indicated that over fifty percent of aboriginal children did not have their native ancestry verified. This means that the number of aboriginal children within the system who would be eligible within the ICWA is unknown. \n\nThe WBTRC found that there continues to be significant public and institutional racism towards the Wabanaki people as well as issues over contested sovereignty and jurisdiction which have made administrating child welfare more challenging. They also concluded that their findings constituted cultural genocide as defined in the 1948 United Nations Convention on Genocide by “Causing serious bodily or mental harm” and “Forcibly transferring members of the group to another group.” \n\nIn total the WBTRC made fourteen recommendations. Among these recommendations were: \n\n"}
{"id": "57904244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57904244", "title": "Ministry of Justice (Cambodia)", "text": "Ministry of Justice (Cambodia)\n\nThe Ministry of Justice of Cambodia provides the administrative framework for the judges and prosecutors such as their professional training and salary and duty allowances. Additionally, with regard to prosecutors, the Minister of Justice is the chief of the prosecution and has the right to issue an injunction (order) to the prosecutions of all level of courts. The General Departments of Prosecutor and Criminal Affairs of the Ministry of Justice is the staff to the Minister of Justice on any related issues.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57912983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57912983", "title": "Ministry of Justice (Liechtenstein)", "text": "Ministry of Justice (Liechtenstein)\n\nAccording to their official website, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Justice and Culture of Liechtenstein unites three complimentary policy areas. For instance, the foreign policy tasks involve maintaining the independence of the country and handling policies that pertain to foreign economics, human rights, and international solidarity. The justice sector of the ministry handles civil law, criminal law, penal system, victim assistance, coordination of official liability, basic traffic and land valuation. Lastly, cultural policy means addressing Liechtenstein's national identity by way of institutions such as museums and the state library.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3902432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3902432", "title": "Moist county", "text": "Moist county\n\nIn the United States, a moist county is a county in between a \"dry county\" (where the sale of alcoholic beverages is prohibited) and a \"wet county\" (where alcohol is sold). The term is typically used for any county that allows alcohol to be sold in certain situations, but has limitations on alcohol sales that a normal \"wet\" county would not have. Some historically \"dry\" counties are switching to this system to avoid losing money to businesses in other counties, but do not wish to become completely \"wet.\" The term in itself does not have any specific meaning, just that the county is not completely \"wet\" but is not \"dry\", either. The terms are applicable in states in which each county makes its own rules on alcohol sales. A \"dry\" county that contains one or more \"wet\" cities is typically called \"moist\".\n\nIn Kentucky, the term can be used in two different senses:\n\nNote that once a city votes itself fully wet, state law mandates a 60-day period, starting on the date that the election results are certified, before vendors can apply for licenses to sell distilled spirits and wine. At the end of that period, the state will then advertise in that city's newspaper of record to announce the number of licenses that will be granted. However, beer licenses are not subject to quotas, and can be applied for once the city enacts a governing ordinance.\n"}
{"id": "804098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=804098", "title": "Multi-Use Radio Service", "text": "Multi-Use Radio Service\n\nIn the United States, the Multi-Use Radio Service (MURS) is a licensed by rule two-way radio service similar to Citizens Band (CB). Established by the U.S. Federal Communications Commission in the fall of 2000, MURS created a radio service allowing for licensed by rule (Part 95) operation in a narrow selection of the VHF band, with a power limit of 2 watts. The FCC formally defines MURS as \"a private, two-way, short-distance voice or data communications service for personal or business activities of the general public.\" MURS stations may not be connected to the public telephone network, may not be used for store and forward operations, and radio repeaters are not permitted.\n\nIn 2009 Industry Canada (IC) established a five-year transition plan, which would have permitted the use of MURS in Canada starting June 2014. In August 2014 IC announced a deferral of MURS introduction, as \"the Department does not feel that the introduction of MURS devices in Canada is warranted at this time, and has decided to defer the introduction of MURS devices in Canada until a clearer indication of actual need is provided by Canadian MURS advocates and/or stakeholders ...\"\n\nNo licenses are required or issued for MURS within the United States.\n\nMURS comprises the following five frequencies:\nChannels 1–3 must use \"narrowband\" frequency modulation (2.5 kHz deviation). Channels 4 and 5 may use either \"wideband\" FM (5 kHz deviation) or \"narrowband\" FM. MURS falls under part 95 and was not mandated for narrow-banding, such as those of Part 90 in the public service bands by January 2013.\n\nBecause previous business band licensees who have maintained their active license remain grandfathered with their existing operating privileges, it is possible to find repeaters or other operations not authorized by Part 95 taking place. These are not necessarily illegal. If legal, such operations may enjoy primary status on their licensed frequency and as such are legally protected from harmful interference by MURS users.\n\nMURS range will vary, depending on antenna size and placement. With an external antenna, ranges of or more can be expected. Full line-of-sight propagation is usually not possible due to the relatively low power restriction of 2 watts. \n\nMURS operation is authorized anywhere a CB station is authorized and within or over any area of the world where radio services are regulated by the FCC. Those areas are within the territorial limits of:\n\n\nThere are a wide variety of radio products that use MURS frequencies. MURS devices consist of wireless base station intercoms, handheld two-way radios, wireless dog training collars, wireless public address units, customer service callboxes, wireless remote switches, and wireless callboxes with or without gate opening ability. Since MURS uses standard frequencies, most devices that use MURS are compatible with each other.\n\nThe goTenna version1 (non-mesh) digital radio product operates on the MURS band and pairs with smartphones to enable users to send texts and share locations on a peer-to-peer basis. goTenna is not interoperable with other MURS devices, even though they operate on the same spectrum, employing \"listen-before-talk\" to reduce interference in the band's five channels.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "146265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146265", "title": "Munn v. Illinois", "text": "Munn v. Illinois\n\nMunn v. Illinois, 94 U.S. 113 (1876), was a United States Supreme Court case in which the Court upheld the power of government to regulate private industries.\n\nThe case was developed because in 1871, the legislature of Illinois responded to pressure from the National Grange, an association of farmers, by setting maximum rates that private companies could charge for the storage and transport of agricultural products. The Chicago grain warehouse firm of Munn and Scott was found guilty of violating the law but appealed the conviction on the grounds that the law was an unconstitutional deprivation of property without due process of law that violated the Fourteenth Amendment.\n\nThe Supreme Court decided the appeal in 1877. Chief Justice Morrison Remick Waite spoke for the majority, which affirmed the constitutionality of state regulation extending to private industries that affect public interests. Because grain storage facilities were devoted to public use, their rates were subject to public regulation.\n\nMoreover, Waite declared that even if Congress alone is granted control over interstate commerce, a state could take action in the public interest without impairing that federal control.\n\nThe decision was reversed in Wabash, St. Louis and Pacific Railway Co. v. Illinois.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27935157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27935157", "title": "National Library of Indonesia", "text": "National Library of Indonesia\n\nThe National Library of Indonesia (, PNRI) is the legal deposit library of Indonesia. It is located at Gambir, on the south side of Merdeka Square, Jakarta. It serves primarily as a humanities library alongside several others holding national responsibilities for science and agriculture. The national library was established in 1980 through a decree of the Ministry of Education and Culture and the consolidation of four different libraries. It maintains the status of a non-departmental government institution and is responsible to the President of Indonesia. The earliest collections originated from the library of the National Museum, opened in 1868 and formerly operated by the Royal Batavian Society of Arts and Sciences. The previous library building was opened in 1988 with financial support from Tien Suharto. The new twenty-four storey building is claimed to be the tallest library building in the world. It was inaugurated by Indonesian president Joko Widodo on 14 September, 2017.\n\nThe origins of the national library date back to the 1778 foundation of the Royal Batavian Society of Arts and Sciences, the first of its kind in Asia. Through its promotion of scholarship in the Dutch East Indies, the society created numerous publications and accumulated a number of collections, including establishing a library. After increasing its collections during the first half of the 19th century, the society and its library moved in 1868 to a new location at the current National Museum at Merdeka Square. Attempts to divert some collections to the new Royal Netherlands Institute of Southeast Asian and Caribbean Studies (KITLV) were resisted by members. Between 1846 and 1920, the library's collection grew from 1,115 items to over 100,000.\n\nThe Society's library survived the years of conflict during and following World War II. Japanese forces occupying Indonesia during the war years were impressed by the number Japanese scholars in the society and did not interfere with the affairs of the museum. Because authorities also upheld the library's powers of legal deposit, it holds a substantial collection of official wartime publication. Following independence, the society was renamed the Indonesian Institute of Culture (\"\") before being dissolved in 1962. The library was then placed under the museum's jurisdiction.\n\nAlthough a plan for a national library was included in the 1961 First National Development Plan, it was not sustained in the following years. In 1973, Mastini Hardjoprakoso, an employee of the National Museum library, developed a concept for the national library, but it was not immediately adopted by the Ministry of Education and Culture. However, the plan caught the attention of the National Development Planning Agency (Bappenas) and other information services. When a new culture director took office in 1978, the ministry finally gave its support for the project. Funding for the library was also provided by Madam Tien Suharto, who was impressed by a 1968 exhibition of colonial and national newspapers at the National Museum.\n\nThe National Library of Indonesia was created through a 1980 decree by the Minister of Education and Culture Daoed Joesoef. Four libraries were consolidated in the process: two departments of the Library Development Centre (the Library of Political and Social History, founded in 1952, and the Department of Bibliography and Deposits, founded in 1953); the library of the Jakarta regional office of the Ministry of Education and Culture, founded in 1953; and the library of the National Museum. In addition to the establishment of a national library system, the decree granted the library powers of legal deposit. The library was placed under the jurisdiction of the Directorate General for Culture within the ministry. The new library building opened in 1988.\n\nUnder Presidential Decree 11 of (6 March) 1989, the National Library fully subsumed the assets of the Library Development Centre and became a non-departmental government institution. It no longer reports to the ministry and is responsible to the President of Indonesia through the State Secretariat. The library's operations were once again revised through a 1997 decree in order to meet the needs of globalization.\n\nThe new library building, which took almost three years to build, is 126.3 meters tall, and has 24 floors. It was planned in line with \"green building\" concepts. Membership cards and books are equipped with Radio-frequency identification devices for security and to monitor the inventory.\nThe new building of National Library consists of 24 operational floors.\nAt the entrance of the main building, there is a plaza, four large rooms, two each on the right and left, displaying the history of Indonesian reading. The script room displays a map of Indonesia on a digital screen on one side of the wall with a recording telling the story of literacy in people of Indonesia. Next to the script room, there is a room that presents an explanation of the development of writing media as well as items that bear witness to history, such as bamboo writing media, alim wood, lontar leaves, gebang, dluwang daluwang, European paper to Chinese paper. In the hallway to the new building, there are glass cases with displays of scripts from around Indonesia, such as the Nagarakretagama by Empu Prapanca, and the Babad Diponegoro written by Prince Diponegoro. In the museum's pavilion there are also books about and photographs of Indonesia's first president, Sukarno. There is a green open space with colorful flowers leading to the new building. At the main lobby, there is a giant bookshelf adorned with an Indonesian map in the upper area. Some of the books available here include encyclopedias, novels, biographies and books on traditional fabrics.Rows of paintings of Indonesian presidents are hung in the lobby, which features a bookcase reaching to the fourth floor. Above it on the ceiling is an illustrated map of Indonesia.\n\nThe second floor there is an information center, member card making, and baggage locker. The third and fourth floors are often used as exhibition areas, while the fifth floor is to the library's office. The 10th to 13th floors are dedicated to deposits and closed monograph collections. On the 14th floor there is a collection of rare books. The 15th floor is the center of reference in Indonesia. All kinds of maps, including the first map in Indonesia, photos and classic paintings can be found on the 16th floor, while the 17th and 18th floors serve as an office for the Indonesian Sciences Academy (AIPI). The 19th floor is home to the library's multimedia room. 20th floor is to read current and old newspapers and journals. Floor 21-24 is dedicated for the collection of general books. The 21st and 22nd floors are allocated for books for military, religion, literature, novels, computer techniques, health and languages. Some of them are in English, but most are in Bahasa Indonesian. The 23rd floor offers books on international affairs, while the 24th floor for books about Indonesia. On the top floor, 24th floor there is also an executive lounge and a great place to see the panorama of Monas area. The seventh floor is dedicated to children, elderly and disabled people. A colorful Children Service room is located on the left side, while the service room for the elderly and disabled people is on the right. Children's service room is filled with books, toys, a playground, outdoor balcony and nursery room, while the latter boasts a collection of books on health as well as books in Braille. A canteen is located on the seventh floor and prayer room on sixth floor. The eighth floor contains audiovisual room with facilities of enjoying films from different genres or read old newspapers from the 1800s and more in microfilm form. This floor also has a private discussion room and a mini theater that can accommodate over 35 people. The ninth floor is home to a collection of ancient texts from across the archipelago. Not infrequently there is also a regular exhibition in the National Library of Indonesia.\n\nThe library serves the entire Indonesian people and is primarily a humanities library. National responsibility for science belongs to the Centre for Scientific Documentation and Information ('). The Centre for Agricultural Library and Technology Dissemination ('), formerly part of the Bogor Botanical Gardens, holds the responsibility for an agriculture library. Other libraries of national importance include the library of the Bandung Institute of Technology and the University of Indonesia medical faculty library.\n\nUnder the national library, Indonesia began its own International Standard Book Number and Cataloging in Publication programs. The library maintains bibliographies of the state ideology Pancasila and Javanese manuscripts. It also develops an independent computer housekeeping system and implements the MARC standards. Both the United States Library of Congress and the National Library of Australia maintain regional offices in Jakarta.\n\nIn January 2017, the National Library of Indonesia partnered with Neliti, a freely available repository of publications from Indonesian research institutions. \n\nThe 1980 ministerial decree also outlined a library system for the country. Aside from the national library, the decree established libraries at the provincial and other administrative levels. It outlined plans for an integrated system of school, academic/university, and mobile libraries.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7160586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7160586", "title": "National Library of Israel", "text": "National Library of Israel\n\nThe National Library of Israel (NLI; ; ), formerly Jewish National and University Library (JNUL; ), is the library dedicated to collecting the cultural treasures of Israel and of Jewish heritage. The library holds more than 5 million books, and is located on the Givat Ram campus of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. \n\nThe National Library owns the world's largest collections of Hebraica and Judaica, and is the repository of many rare and unique manuscripts, books and artifacts.\n\nThe B'nai Brith library, founded in Jerusalem in 1892, was the first public library in Palestine to serve the Jewish community. The library was located on B'nai Brith street, between the Meah Shearim neighborhood and the Russian Compound. Ten years later, the Bet Midrash Abrabanel library, as it was then known, moved to Ethiopia Street. In 1920, when plans were drawn up for the Hebrew University, the B'nai Brith collection became the basis for a university library. The books were moved to Mount Scopus when the university opened five years later. \n\nIn 1948, when access to the university campus on Mount Scopus was blocked, most of the books were moved to the university's temporary quarters in the Terra Sancta building in Rehavia. By that time, the university collection included over one million books. For lack of space, some of the books were placed in storerooms around the city. In 1960, they were moved to the new JNUL building in Givat Ram.\n\nIn the late 1970s, when the new university complex on Mount Scopus was inaugurated and the faculties of Law, Humanities and Social Science returned there, departmental libraries opened on that campus and the number of visitors to the Givat Ram library dropped. In the 1990s, the building suffered from maintenance problems such as rainwater leaks and insect infestation. \n\nIn 2007 the library was officially recognized as The National Library of the State of Israel after the passage of the National Library Law. The law, which came into effect on 23 July 2008, changed the library's name to \"National Library of Israel\" and turned it temporarily to a subsidiary company of the University, later to become a fully independent community interest company, jointly owned by the Government of Israel (50%), the Hebrew University (25%) and other organizations.\n\nIn 2011, the library launched a website granting public access to books, periodicals, maps, photos and music from its collections.\n\nIn 2014, the project for a new home of the Library in Jerusalem was unveiled. The 34,000 square meters building, designed by the Swiss architecture firm Herzog & de Meuron, is scheduled for full completion in 2021.\n\nThe library's mission is to secure copies of all material published in Israel, in any language; all publications on the subject of Israel, the Land of Israel, Judaism and the Jewish people, published in any language, in any country in the world; and all material published in Hebrew or any of the languages spoken in the Jewish Diaspora (such as Yiddish and Ladino). \n\nBy law, two copies of all printed matter published in Israel must be deposited in the National Library. In 2001, the law was amended to include audio and video recordings, and other non-print media. Many manuscripts, including some of the library's unique volumes such the 13th century Worms Mahzor, have been scanned and are now available on the Internet.\n\nAmong the library's special collections are the personal papers of hundreds of outstanding Jewish figures, the National Sound Archives, the Laor Map Collection and numerous other collections of Hebraica and Judaica. The library also possesses some of Isaac Newton's manuscripts dealing with theological subjects. The collection, donated by the family of the collector Abraham Yahuda, includes a large number of works by Newton about mysticism, analyses of holy books, predictions about the end of days and the appearance of the ancient Temple in Jerusalem. It also contains maps that Newton sketched about mythical events to assist him in his end of days calculations. The library houses the personal archives of Martin Buber and Gershom Scholem.\n\nFollowing the occupation of West Jerusalem by Haganah forces in May 1948, the libraries of a number Palestinians who fled the country as well as of other well-to-do Palestinians were transferred to the National Library. These collections included those of Henry Cattan, Khalil Beidas, Khalil al-Sakakini and Aref Hikmet Nashashibi. About 30,000 books were removed from homes in West Jerusalem, with another 40,000 taken from other cities in Mandatory Palestine. It is unclear whether the books were being kept and protected or if they were looted from the abandoned houses of their owners. About 6,000 of these books are in the library today indexed with the label AP – \"Abandoned Property\". The books are cataloged, can be viewed from the Library's general catalog and are regularly consulted by the public, including Arab scholars from all over the world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28732762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28732762", "title": "Poverty law", "text": "Poverty law\n\nPoverty law is the body of law which concerns the rights of low-income individuals and families to access government benefits. In the United States, these government benefits are provided by the federal government as well as by state governments. Federal government benefits include Medicaid; cash public assistance (more commonly known as Welfare); and the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) program, previously known as the food stamps program. Poverty law frequently involves questions of administrative law, civil rights law, constitutional law, employment law, and health law.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3976426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3976426", "title": "Progressive Party (United States, 1948)", "text": "Progressive Party (United States, 1948)\n\nThe United States Progressive Party of 1948 was a left-wing political party that served as a vehicle for former Vice President Henry A. Wallace's 1948 presidential campaign. The party sought desegregation, the establishment of a national health insurance system, an expansion of the welfare system, and the nationalization of the energy industry. The party also sought conciliation with the Soviet Union during the early stages of the Cold War.\n\nWallace had served as vice president under Franklin D. Roosevelt but was dumped from the Democratic ticket in 1944. After the end of World War II, Wallace emerged as a prominent critic of President Harry S. Truman's Cold War policies. Wallace's supporters held the 1948 Progressive National Convention, which nominated a ticket consisting of Wallace and Democratic Senator Glen H. Taylor of Idaho. Despite challenges from Wallace, Republican nominee Thomas E. Dewey, and Strom Thurmond of the segregationist Dixiecrats, Truman won re-election in the 1948 election. Wallace won 2.4% of the vote, which was far less than the share received by Theodore Roosevelt and Robert La Follette, the presidential candidates of the 1912 and 1924 Progressive Party tickets, respectively. Neither of those parties were directly related to Wallace's party, though these parties did carry over ideological groups and influenced many members of the 1948 Progressive Party.\n\nAfter the election, Wallace recanted his foreign policy views and became estranged from his former supporters. The party nominated attorney Vincent Hallinan in the 1952 presidential election, and Hallinan won 0.2% of the national popular vote. The party began to disband in 1955 as opponents of anti-Communism became increasingly unpopular, and was mostly fully dissolved by the late 1960s with the exception of a few affiliated state Progressive Parties.\n\nThe Progressive Party of Henry Wallace was, and remains, controversial due to the issue of communist influence. The party served as a safe haven for communists, fellow travelers, and anti-war liberals during the Second Red Scare. Prominent Progressive Party supporters included U.S. Representative Vito Marcantonio and writer Norman Mailer.\n\nThe formation of the Progressive Party began in 1946, after Secretary of Commerce and former Vice President Henry A. Wallace quit the Truman administration and began to publicly agitate against Truman's policies. Calls for a third party had been growing even before Wallace, who was replaced as vice president by Franklin D. Roosevelt with the more conservative Truman at the 1944 Democratic National Convention, left the Truman Administration. One of the ironies of the contest between Wallace and Truman was that, if FDR had not replaced Wallace with Truman at the 1944 Democratic convention—at the behest of Democratic Party bosses who felt that Wallace was too liberal and too erratic—Wallace would have been President of the United States, not Truman.\n\nWallace disliked the hard line that Truman had taken against the Soviet Union, a stance that won him favor among liberals and fellow travelers who were opposed to what became known as the Cold War. He received support from two major organizations, the National Citizens Political Action Committee (NCPAC) and the Independent Citizens Committee of the Arts, Sciences and Professions (ICCASP), political action committees (PACs) that had been created to support FDR. These two organizations merged in December 1946 as the Progressive Citizens of America (PCA), which formed the backbone of the Progressive Party and Henry Wallace's bid for US President on July 23–25, 1948, when the 1948 Progressive National Convention in Philadelphia launched a \"New Party\" to a crowd of enthusiastic liberal and left-leaning citizens.\n\nIn her 1954 book \"School of Darkness\", Bella Dodd, a Communist Party US National Committee member who later left and went on to give anti-Communist testimony before Congress, wrote about a June 1947 Communist National Committee meeting she attended at which the founding of the 1948 Progressive Party was planned:\n\nThe point of it all came near the end, when [John] Gates read that a third party would be very effective in 1948, but only if we could get Henry Wallace to be its candidate.\n\nThere it was, plainly stated. The Communists were proposing a third party, a farmer-labor party, as a political maneuver for the 1948 elections. They were even picking the candidate.\n\nWhen Gates had finished, I took the floor. I said that while I would not rule out the possibility of building a farmer-labor party, surely the decision to place a third party in 1948 should be based not on whether Henry Wallace would run, but on whether a third party would help meet the needs of workers and farmers in America. And if a third party were to participate in the 1948 elections, the decision should be made immediately by bona-fide labor and farmer groups, and not delayed until some secret and unknown persons made the decision.\n\nMy remarks were heard in icy silence. When I had finished, the committee with no answer to my objection simply went on to other work.\n\nHowever, it was becoming evident that the top clique was having a hard time with this proposition. It was also clear that [Eugene] Dennis and his clique of smart boys were reserving to themselves the right to make the final decision, and that the Party in general was being kept pretty much in the dark.\n\nIn February 1948, two days before a special election put American Labor Party candidate Leo Isacson into Congress, the \"New York Times\" analyzed the shifting background of the Progressive Party: The question involved in the special election is how strongly the Labor [ALP] party vote will hold up after withdrawal of the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America and other anti-Communist unions from the Labor party because of its support of Mr. Wallace's candidacy for President, which has left the Communists and other left-wing elements in complete control of that party's organization. More broadly, in the run-up to the presidential election, Harry Truman was nominated by the Democrats while New York Governor Thomas Dewey, who had lost to Roosevelt in 1944, was renominated by the Republican Party. Dewey had defeated the isolationist, non-interventionist Robert A. Taft for the GOP nomination and favored an aggressive policy against the USSR.\n\nThe Communist Party USA did not field a presidential candidate, and instead endorsed Wallace for President; given that the Cold War was beginning to gain momentum and with it the Red Scare and anti-Communist sentiment. This endorsement was to hinder Wallace far more than it would help him. Wallace had served Franklin D. Roosevelt as Secretary of Agriculture, Vice President, and Secretary of Commerce. He was fired by President Harry S. Truman because he denounced Truman's foreign policy regarding the Cold War. When Wallace refused to expel Communists working in the party during the 1948 election, his campaign was severely criticized by both the rigidly anti-Communist Truman and Dewey camps.\n\nThe former Communist National Committee member Bella Dodd asserts in her 1954 memoir \"School of Darkness\" that the Progressive Party of 1948 had Wallace as its voice and \"inspirational leader\" but was really controlled by top U.S. Communists, particularly William Z. Foster and Eugene Dennis, who filled the staff of the new party with people loyal to themselves and dictated self-defeating policies to the Progressive Party. Dodd concluded: The reason they wanted a small limited Progressive Party was because it was the only kind they could control. They wanted to control it because they wanted a political substitute for the Communist Party, which they expected would soon be made illegal. A limited and controlled Progressive Party would be a cover organization and a substitute for the Communist Party if the latter were outlawed.\" Historians have disputed the degree to which Communists shaped the party. Most agree that Wallace himself was not a Communist, but they also agree that he paid very little attention to internal party affairs. Historians Schapsmeier and Schapsmeier argue (1970 p 181):\n\n[The Progressive Party] stood for one thing and Wallace another. Actually the party organization was controlled from the outset by those representing the radical left and not liberalism per se. This made it extremely easy for Communists and fellow travelers to infiltrate into important positions within the party machinery. Once this happened, party stands began to resemble a party line. Campaign literature, speech materials, and campaign slogans sounded strangely like echoes of what Moscow wanted to hear. As if wearing moral blinkers, Wallace increasingly became an imperceptive ideologue. Words were uttered by Wallace that did not sound like him, and his performance took on a strange Jekyll and Hyde quality—one moment he was a peace protagonist and the next a propaganda parrot for the Kremlin.\n\nOne historian (further to the left than the Schapsmeiers) explores the internal dynamic (Schmidt 258-9):\n\nU.S. Senator Robert M. La Follette, Jr., whose father \"Fighting Bob\" La Follette had run for president on the Progressive Party ticket in 1924, had been head of the Wisconsin Progressive Party (which was not related to Wallace's party), though he had returned to the Republican fold by 1946. He was defeated by McCarthy in the Republican primary.\n\nOrson Welles, a friend of Roosevelt who had endorsed him in the 1944 election, refused to be involved with Wallace's Presidential campaign. Welles later described Wallace as \"a prisoner of the [U.S.] Communist Party. He would never do anything to upset them.\"\n\nThe slogan of the \"New Party\", and the name many used to refer to the party forming around Henry Wallace, was appropriately \"Fight for Peace\". A major drive for Henry Wallace had always been the ending of the hostile relations between the Soviet Union and the United States and the acceptance of Russian influence in Europe. These sentiments were first put forward by Wallace in 1944, but those same sentiments soon began to take a more dramatic tone, as a sense of urgency and anxiety for peace settled in with the beginning of the arms race and the Cold War. Yet, while the \"New Party\" may be most famous for its anti-war, pro-Russian relations, it sought to include an incredibly broad range of issues and interests. The quote by Henry Wallace above shows how he, and many others in the party, sought to create something more than a single-issue party, to the objection of other leaders in the party who felt that would be their undoing. Nevertheless, the platform of the party and the range of issues it covered show the diversity of the people who formed the \"New Party\" in 1948, which included many socialists as well as communists. Among the policies the Progressive Party hoped to implement were the end of all Jim Crow laws/segregation in the South, the advancement of women's rights, the continuation of many New Deal policies including national health insurance and unemployment benefits, the expansion of the welfare system, and the nationalization of the energy industry among others.\n\nThe American Labor Party (ALP) \"formally organized itself as the New York branch of the Progressive Party.\"\n\nThe ALSP also helped form a \"New York State Wallace for President\" conference, held on April 3, 1948. ALP leaders Isacson and Marcantonio both spoke there.\n\nDuring the Progressive Party's convention in July 1948 in Philadelphia, the following committees had the following ALP members:\n\nHenry Wallace's bid for the presidency attracted the support of many prominent people in academia and the arts. Among those who publicly supported Wallace were Larry Adler, George Antheil, Marc Blitzstein, Kermit Bloomgarden, Morris Carnovsky, Lee J. Cobb, Aaron Copland, Howard da Silva, W. E. B. DuBois, Howard Fast, Uta Hagen, Dashiell Hammett, Lillian Hellman, Judy Holliday, Libby Holman, John Huston, Burl Ives, Sam Jaffe, Garson Kanin, Howard E. Koch, John Howard Lawson, Canada Lee, Norman Mailer, Albert Maltz, Thomas Mann, Lewis Milestone, Arthur Miller, Clifford Odets, Linus Pauling, S. J. Perelman, Anne Revere, Budd Schulberg, Adrian Scott, Artie Shaw, Philip Van Doren Stern, I. F. Stone, Louis Untermeyer, Mark Van Doren, and Frank Lloyd Wright. \n\nLawson, Maltz and Scott were members of the Hollywood 10, members of the movie industry who were called before the House Un-American Activities Committee (HUAC) for suspected membership in the Communist Party. Many of Wallace's public supporters were similarly hauled before HUAC and were blacklisted if they did not cooperate.\n\nRunning as peace candidates in the nascent Cold War era, the Wallace-Taylor ticket garnered no electoral votes and only 2.4 percent of the popular vote, far less than most pundits had anticipated; some historians have suggested that the Progressive campaign did Truman more good than harm, as their strident criticism of his foreign policy helped to undercut Republican claims that the administration's policies were insufficiently anti-Communist. Nearly half of these votes were obtained in New York State (tipping the state and its 47 electoral votes from Truman to Dewey), where Wallace ran on the American Labor Party ballot line.\n\nOn September 11, 1948, for instance, the national committee of the Progressive Party passed a resolution which observed:\n\nThe totally unjustified decisions of the Illinois Electoral Board to rule the Progressive Party off the ballot is a clear violation of the most basic democratic concepts.\n\nThe decisions rob millions of the free citizens of Illinois of their right to vote for the Party and candidate of their choice. They force the war policies of the old parties down the throats of freedom and peace-loving Americans.\n\nFree Americans cannot—and will not—tolerate stolen elections.\nThis reflects a growing move by states to limit ballot access by any candidate other than the Republican or Democratic party candidates.\n\nIn Massachusetts, the anti-war Progressive Party was active in 1948 and faced discrimination in this state also. On May 31, 1948, for instance, the Democratic Mayor of Boston, James Curley, denied the use of the bandstand on the Boston Common to the Progressive Party of Massachusetts. The following month, however, on June 29, one of the African-American leaders of the Progressive Party, Paul Robeson, was allowed to speak in the Crystal Ballroom in Boston's Hotel Bradford.\n\nIn Virginia, in 1948, Virginia Foster Durr ran for the U.S. Senate seat on the Progressive ticket.\n\nOne of the Kingston Trio's most popular folk songs in the 1950s, \"The MTA Song\", was written by supporters of the Progressive Party of Massachusetts' 1949 Boston mayoralty candidate, Walter A. O'Brien. After Boston's publicly funded MTA purchased the privately owned Boston Elevated Railway's subway and trolley system for $30 per share more than each share was worth, the MTA imposed a fare increase on the citizens of Boston. Progressive Party mayoral candidate O'Brien then led unusually large protests against the MTA fare increase before the 1949 mayoral election. But although his campaign's anti-fare increase song was subsequently turned into a national hit record in the 1950s, O'Brien failed to win the local Boston election in 1949. When the Kingston Trio decided to record \"The MTA Song\", it was apparently agreed to change the first name of the O'Brien referred to in the song from \"Walter\" to \"George\", because it was feared that a hit record which referred to \"Walter O'Brien\" would make it even more difficult than it already was for the former Progressive Party candidate to find a New England employer who was willing to hire him during the McCarthy Era.\n\nAfter the 1948 election, Henry Wallace grew increasingly estranged from the Progressive Party. His speeches started to include mild criticism of Soviet foreign policy, which was anathema to many leftists in the party. The final break came in 1950, when the Progressive Party's executive committee issued a policy statement against US military involvement in Korea, and soundly rejected Wallace's proposed language criticizing the invasion by communist North Korea. Wallace came out in support of the US intervention in the Korean War, and quit the Progressive Party three weeks later.\n\nIn 1952, the Progressive Party ran lawyer Vincent Hallinan for president. Their vice presidential candidate was Charlotta Bass, the first African-American woman ever to run for national office. The campaign attracted little media attention and few votes, and was not even on the ballot in many states. Erstwhile Progressive candidate Henry A. Wallace supported Dwight D. Eisenhower, published an article in the September 7, 1952, issue of \"This Week\" magazine (a Sunday supplement that was included in 37 American newspapers) entitled \"Where I Was Wrong,\" detailing some of his mistakes in not having opposed Stalin strenuously enough. The Progressive Party disbanded in 1955, as the Cold War dominated the political spectrum, and any party which had not taken an anti-Communist position was deemed to be unviable.\n\nThe 1948 Progressive Party is but tenuously connected to the original Progressive Party (1912-1932) (although Henry A. Wallace's father had been a fervent Bull Mooser, and Wallace himself had only officially left the Republican party in 1936); members of the 1948 Progressive Party, however, have joined the later state Progressive Parties, thus linking the 1948 group to the Vermont Progressive Party, the Wisconsin Prodanes, and the Progressive Party of Washington.\n\n\nEyewitness accounts of Lyle Mercer, early Progressive Party activist, and founder of the Young Progressives on the University of Washington campus in 1948, and Bobby Mercer, his activist wife.\n\n"}
{"id": "25586988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25586988", "title": "Smith and Grady v United Kingdom", "text": "Smith and Grady v United Kingdom\n\nSmith and Grady v UK (1999) 29 EHRR 493 was a notable decision of the European Court of Human Rights that unanimously found that the investigation into and subsequent discharge of personnel from the Royal Navy on the basis they were homosexual was a breach of their right to a private life under Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights. The decision, which caused widespread controversy at the time led the UK to adopt a revised sexual-orientation-free Armed Forces Code of Social Conduct in January 2000. In UK law the decision is notable because the applicants' case had previously been dismissed in both the High Court and Court of Appeal, who had found that the authorities' actions had not violated the principles of legality including Wednesbury unreasonableness, thus highlighting the difference in approach of the European Court of Human Rights and the domestic courts.\n\nSmith had been a member of the Royal Air Force since 1989. In June 1994 a woman telephoned the air force alleging that Smith was a lesbian and had been sexually harassing the caller. Smith was questioned by the service police and admitted that she was gay and that she had a same-sex relationship while in the RAF. The service police asked her intimate questions on the details of her sexual life, asking for the names of previous partners, her HIV status and other details. A few months later Smith was given an administrative discharge from the Royal Air Force.\nGrady had been a member of the Armed forces since 1980 but was discharged following disclosures of a nanny working for the British Defence Liaison Service.\nThe applicants sought to challenge their discharges first through a domestic judicial review, and when this was unsuccessful they launched an application to the European Court of Human Rights.\n\nThe British government conceded that there had been an interference with the applicants' right to a private life under article 8 of the European Convention. The issue for the court was therefore whether such an interference could be justified. In order for an interference under article 8 to be justified it is necessary that it is in accordance with the law, in the pursuit of a legitimate aim, and must be considered necessary in a democratic society. The government policy had been given both statutory recognition and recognition by the lower courts and the court considered that the policy could be said to be in the pursuit of the legitimate aim interests of national security\" and \"the prevention of disorder\". However, the court was not satisfied that the policy could be considered \"necessary in a democratic society\".\nThe court was not satisfied that the government had provided credible justification for its treatment of homosexual personnel. Observing that:\n\n”these attitudes, even if sincerely felt by those who expressed them, ranged from stereotypical expressions of hostility to those of homosexual orientation, to vague expressions of unease about the presence of homosexual colleagues. To the extent that they represent a predisposed bias on the part of a heterosexual majority against a homosexual minority, these negative attitudes cannot, of themselves, be considered by the Court to amount to sufficient justification for the interferences with the applicants’ rights outlined above any more than similar negative attitudes towards those of a different race, origin or colour.”\n\nThe court considered that the government had not offered convincing and weighty reasons for the investigation of the applicants sexual orientation or their subsequent discharge and therefore considered that there had been a breach of their right to a private life under Article 8 of the European Convention.\n\nMowbray has suggested that the court may have been influenced in its decision by the doubts expressed by some of the Obiter dicta of the domestic proceedings which expressed doubts about the durability of the armed forces policy towards homosexuals.\n\nThe decision was initially controversial, with gay rights advocates arguing that it represented a breakthrough but some politicians and commentators expressing concerns that the decision would disrupt army morale. Today, such fears are widely regarded as having been proven unfounded. The Ministry of Defence has concluded that the policy had \"been hailed as a solid achievement\" and that \"there has been no perceived effect on morale, unit cohesion or operational effectiveness\".\n\nThe decision has come to be widely accepted both within the military and outside it with Wing Commander Phil Sagar of the armed forces' joint equality and diversity training centre issuing a formal apology on behalf of the Ministry of Defence in 2007 to those affected by the MOD's former policy. The current attitude of the Armed Forces was demonstrated in October 2008 when the outgoing head of the British Army, General Sir Richard Dannatt told delegates at a lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender conference that \"respect for others is not an optional extra\" and in July 2009 diversity within the armed service was actively celebrated with the first openly gay serviceman featured on the front cover of the armed forces' \"Soldier\" magazine.\n\n"}
{"id": "31083479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31083479", "title": "Tajik constitutional referendum, 1999", "text": "Tajik constitutional referendum, 1999\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in Tajikistan on 26 September 1999. The changes included legalising religious political parties, introducing a bicameral parliament, and lengthening the president's term from five to seven years. They were approved by 75.3% of voters, with a turnout of 91.5%.\n"}
{"id": "30448763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30448763", "title": "Tax in kind", "text": "Tax in kind\n\nTax in kind or tax-in-kind usually refers to any taxation that is paid in kind, that is with goods or services rather than money, including: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1268656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1268656", "title": "Terry stop", "text": "Terry stop\n\nA Terry stop in the United States allows the police to briefly detain a person based on reasonable suspicion of involvement in criminal activity. Reasonable suspicion is a lower standard than probable cause which is needed for arrest. When police stop and search a pedestrian, this is commonly known as a stop and frisk. When police stop an automobile, this is known as a traffic stop. If the police stop a motor vehicle on minor infringements in order to investigate other suspected criminal activity, this is known as a pretextual stop. Additional rules apply to stops that occur on a bus.\n\nThere is a difference between one police officer stopping one individual, which is a tactical definition, and systematic promotion of this tactic on either the departmental or municipal level, which can damage police–community trust and lead to charges of racial profiling.\n\nAlthough the Supreme Court has published many cases that define the intersection between policing and the Fourth Amendment in America, the U.S. Congress has not defined a baseline for police behavior. There has been some state action at both the legislative and judicial levels, and also some cities have passed laws on these issues. Except where noted, this article will primarily deal with these issues on a national level. Local and state laws may vary, but that is the exception and not the rule.\n\nThe concept of a Terry stops originated in the 1968 Supreme Court case \"Terry v. Ohio\", in which a police officer detained three Cleveland men on the street behaving suspiciously, as if they were preparing for armed robbery. The police conducted a pat down search and discovered a revolver, and subsequently, two of the men were convicted of carrying a concealed weapon. The men appealed their case to the Supreme Court, arguing that the revolver was found during an illegal search under the Fourth Amendment. This brief detention and search were deemed admissible by the court, judging that the office had reasonable suspicion which could be articlulated (not just a hunch) that the person detained may be armed and dangerous. It is key to note that not just \"mere\" suspicion was used, but \"reasonable\" suspicion which could be articulated at a later date.\n\nThis decision was made during a period of great social unrest in America in the 1960s, with rising crime, antiwar protests and race riots. It was thought that law enforcement needed to be provided with tools to deal with the unrest and new issues of urban crime. Some criticized the decision for watering down the prohibition against unreasonable searches and seizures, others praised it for balancing safety and individual rights.\n\nTo have reasonable suspicion that would justify a stop, police must have \"specific and articulable facts\" that indicate the person to be stopped is or is about to be engaged in criminal activity. Reasonable suspicion depends on the \"totality of the circumstances.\" Reasonable suspicion is a vague term and the Supreme Court concluded it should be decided on a case-by-case basis. Often it is built out of a combination of facts, each of which would, in itself, not be enough justification for the stop.\n\nThe suspicion must be individualized. Suspecting people because they fit into a broad category, such as being in a particular location, being of a particular race or ethnicity, or fitting a profile, are insufficient for reasonable suspicion. However, stop-and-frisk has been validated on the basis of furtive movements; inappropriate attire; carrying suspicious objects such as a television or a pillowcase; vague, nonspecific answers to routine questions; refusal to identify oneself; and appearing to be out of place.\n\nThe cases following \"Terry\" expanded the power of the police. While the original case was concerned with armed violence and firsthand observation by officers, \"Adams v. Williams\" (1972) extended the doctrine to drug possession backed up by the secondhand hearsay of an informant. \"United States v. Hensley\" (1985) ruled that police officers may stop and question suspects when they believe they recognize them from \"wanted\" flyers issued by another police department. In \"Illinois v. Wardlow\" (2000), a person's unprovoked flight from Chicago police officers in \"an area known for heavy narcotics trafficking\" constituted reasonable suspicion to stop him.\n\nUsually during a Terry stop, the police ask those they detain to identify themselves. Several states require people to provide their names to the police. In \"Hiibel v. Sixth Judicial District Court of Nevada\" (2004), these stop and identify statutes were deemed constitutional.\n\nA frisk, also known as a patdown, of the surface of a suspect's garments is permitted during a Terry stop, but must be limited to what is necessary to discover weapons, and must be based on a reasonable suspicion the individual may be armed. However, pursuant to the plain feel doctrine, police may seize contraband discovered in the course of a frisk, but only if the contraband's identity is immediately apparent., \n\nThe Supreme Court has placed very liberal requirements on what is \"immediately apparent\" in regards to contraband. For example, in conducting a pat-down search, an officer feels a hard pack of cigarettes, the officer removes the pack and examines the inside, discovering drugs. He can be allowed to do this because he has prior knowledge, based on experience, that a small switchblade or tiny gun could be hidden in such a box.\n\nSubsequent court cases have expanded the definition of what constitutes a frisk, and what is considered as admissible evidence. In \"Michigan v. Long\", Terry stops were extended to searching the inside of a car passenger compartment if police have reasonable suspicion an occupant may have access to a weapon there. In \"Minnesota v. Dickerson\", the court ruled that \"immediately recognized\" contraband discovered during a Terry stop is also a lawful seizure.\n\nJust as important to understanding Fourth Amendment rights surrounding terry stops are cases which fall outside of Fourth Amendment protection. Based on the Supreme Court decision in \"Schneckloth v. Bustamonte\" (1972), a person waives Fourth Amendment protections when giving voluntary consent to a search. The police are not required to inform a person of their right to decline the search. Justice Marshall, in his dissent in the case, stated the obvious by saying it is a \"\"curious result\" that one can choose to relinquish a constitutional right — the right to be free from unreasonable searches — without knowing that he has the alternative of refusing to accede to a police request\". Currently, several cities and states require police to inform citizens of their right to deny a search (see Consent search).\n\nFor practical purposes, a traffic stop is essentially the same as a \"Terry stop\"; for the duration of a stop, driver and passengers are \"seized\" within the meaning of the Fourth Amendment. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that drivers and passengers may be ordered out of the vehicle without violating the Fourth Amendment's proscription of unreasonable searches and seizures. Drivers and passengers may be patted down for weapons upon reasonable suspicion they are armed and dangerous. If police reasonably suspect the driver or any of the occupants may be dangerous and that the vehicle may contain a weapon to which an occupant may gain access, police may perform a protective search of the passenger compartment. Otherwise, lacking a warrant or the driver's consent, police may not search the vehicle, but under the \"plain view\" doctrine may seize and use as evidence weapons or contraband that are visible from outside the vehicle.\n\nAs decided in \"Ohio v. Robinette\" (1996), once an officer returns the drivers identification, there is no requirement that the officer inform the driver they are free to go. Therefore, although the encounter has been turned into a consensual encounter, questioning can continue, including a request to search the vehicle.\n\nPretextual stops are a subset of traffic stops deemed constitutional by the Supreme Court in \"Whren v. United States\" (1996). They occur when a police officer wishes to investigate a motorist on other suspicions, generally related to drug possession, and uses a minor traffic infringement as a \"pretext\" to stop the driver. In the case of \"Whren\", the defense used a \"would have\" rule; would a reasonable police officer have made the stop without the suspicion of other criminal behavior. On the surface, this is a sensible ruling, but there is much controversy about whether it leaves the door open to racial profiling. This is due to the fact that there are numerous petty violations a driver may violate and the officer can be selective about who to pull over to investigate. Currenty the following 17 states ban pretextual stops: AZ, AR, CA, CO, CT, KS, MD, MS, MT, NE, NJ, NM, OK, RI, UT, and WV.\n\nThe following states require stop-and-frisk data collection: AL, CA, CT, FL, IL, LA, MD, MA, MN, MO, MT, NC, NE, NV, RI, TX, WA, and WV. State that require this data to be published are: AL, CA, CT, FL, IL, KS, LA, MD, MA, MO, NE, NV, RI, TX, and WV. Using public records requests, the Stanford Open Policing project amassed 60 million state traffic stops in 20 states over the period 2011 through 2015.\n\nNorth Carolina was the first state in the country to require the release of all traffic stop data starting in 2000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "233859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233859", "title": "Thomas Howard, 4th Duke of Norfolk", "text": "Thomas Howard, 4th Duke of Norfolk\n\nThomas Howard, 4th Duke of Norfolk, (10 March 1536 – 2 June 1572) was an English nobleman and politician. Although hailing from a family with strong Catholic leanings, he was raised a Protestant. He was a second cousin of Queen Elizabeth I through her maternal grandmother, and held many high offices during her reign.\n\nNorfolk was the son of the poet Henry Howard, Earl of Surrey. He commissioned Thomas Tallis, probably in 1567, to compose his renowned motet in forty voice-parts \"Spem in alium\".\n\nNorfolk was taught as a child by John Foxe, the Protestant martyrologist, who remained a lifelong recipient of Norfolk's patronage. His father predeceased his grandfather, so Norfolk inherited the Dukedom of Norfolk upon the death of his grandfather, Thomas Howard, 3rd Duke of Norfolk in 1554.\n\nHe was a second cousin of Queen Elizabeth I through her maternal grandmother, Lady Elizabeth Howard, and he was trusted with public office despite his family's history and leanings towards Catholicism (although he was brought up a Protestant). He commissioned Thomas Tallis, probably in 1567, to compose his renowned motet in forty voice-parts \"Spem in alium\".\n\nNorfolk was Earl Marshal of England and Queen's Lieutenant in the North. From February to July 1560, Norfolk was commander of the English army in Scotland in support of the Lords of the Congregation opposing Mary of Guise. He negotiated the Treaty of Berwick (1560) by which the Congregation invited English assistance.\n\nNorfolk was the Principal of the commission at York in 1568 to hear evidence against Mary, Queen of Scots presented by Regent Moray, including the casket letters.\n\nQueen Elizabeth imprisoned Norfolk in 1569 for scheming to marry Mary, Queen of Scots.\n\nFollowing his release, he participated in the Ridolfi plot with King Philip II of Spain to put Mary on the English throne and restore Catholicism in England. After a 1571 trial, he was executed for treason in 1572. He is buried at the Church of St Peter ad Vincula within the walls of the Tower of London.\n\nNorfolk's lands and titles were forfeit, although much of the estate was later restored to his sons. The title of Duke of Norfolk was restored, four generations later, to Thomas Howard.\n\nThomas Howard's first wife was Mary FitzAlan, who after the death of her brother Henry in 1556 became heiress to the Arundel estates of her father Henry FitzAlan, 19th Earl of Arundel. She died after a year of marriage, having given birth to a son:\n\n\nIt is from this marriage that modern Dukes of Norfolk derive their surname of 'FitzAlan-Howard' and their seat in Arundel. Though her funeral effigy is found at Framlingham church, Mary FitzAlan was not buried there but first at the church of St. Clement Danes, Temple Bar and then, under the direction of her grandson's will, at Arundel.\n\nNorfolk next married another heiress, Margaret Audley, widow of Sir Henry Dudley and daughter of Thomas Audley, 1st Baron Audley of Walden. Margaret's children by her marriage to Norfolk were:\n\nMargaret Audley Howard's tomb effigies is found at St Michael the Archangel, Framlingham.\n\nAfter Margaret's death in 1563, Norfolk married Elizabeth Leyburne (1536 – 4 September 1567), widow of Thomas Dacre, 4th Baron Dacre of Gillesland and daughter of Sir James Leyburne.\n\nNorfolk's three sons by his first two wives, Philip, Thomas, and William, married, respectively, Anne, Margaret, and Elizabeth Dacre. The Dacre sisters were the daughters of Elizabeth Leyburne by her marriage to Thomas Dacre and were, thereby, stepsisters to Norfolk's sons.\n\nFollowing the death of his third wife, Norfolk made an effort in 1569 to marry Mary, Queen of Scots. The marriage, of course, never happened, and Norfolk was imprisoned by Queen Elizabeth and executed for this.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25775731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25775731", "title": "Treaty of Limits", "text": "Treaty of Limits\n\nA Treaty of Limits is a treaty that establishes or confirms a border between two countries. It may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "8427804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8427804", "title": "Uniform Firearms Act", "text": "Uniform Firearms Act\n\nThe Uniform Firearms Act (UFA) is a set of statutes in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania that defines the limits of Section 21 of the Pennsylvania Constitution, the right to bear arms, which predates the United States Constitution and reads: \"The right of the citizens to bear arms in defense of themselves and the State shall not be questioned.\" The laws range in scope from use of force in self-defense situations, to specific categories citizens that are ineligible to purchase or possess firearms.\n\nUFA for Pennsylvania is generally a more liberal interpretation of the Right to Bear Arms, in that it does not prohibit the sale and transfer of Class III NFA firearms, contains no duty for a citizen lawfully carrying a weapon to notify law enforcement, and mandates shall-issue licenses to carry firearms to eligible citizens.\n\nThe object of concealed weapons statutes is to protect the public by preventing an individual from having at hand, a weapon of which the public is unaware. The Pennsylvania Uniform Firearms Act (Pa. UFA) follows the practice of the majority of states in prohibiting and criminalizing the carrying of concealed weapons. However, the title of the law is a bit of a misnomer as the Pa. UFA does not follow the \"Model Penal Code\". The Pa. UFA, prohibits the carrying of certain firearms in vehicles or concealed on the person without a license; prohibits ownership or possession of firearms by certain persons; provides for the licensing for concealed carry; provided strictures for dealers in firearms and; provides penalties for violations of the law. The regulation of firearms in the Commonwealth is preempted by the Legislature. That means that local municipalities, including the large municipalities, cannot regulate firearms as this is the sole province of the State Legislature. By way of illustration, a Philadelphia ordinance requiring a city license to transfer a firearm was held to be \"ultra-vires\" and struck down. Notwithstanding Sec. 6108 makes it a violation of State law to carry a firearm, rifle or shotgun, at any time on the public street or public property of any city of the first class (currently only Philadelphia), without first obtaining a license to carry a firearm.\n\nThe Pa. UFA at Sec. 6106 (a), provides that no person shall carry a firearm in any vehicle or concealed on or about his person, except in his place of abode or fixed place of business, without a license to do so. Carrying a gun in the trunk of an automobile has been held to be a violation of the law, but the Commonwealth has to establish that the person had both the power of control over the weapon and the intention to exercise that control. The burden of proof of the fact that a person carried a firearm outside of his place of abode or fixed place of business without a license rests with the Commonwealth. Where the Commonwealth cannot prove that a person carried a concealed weapon, it may nonetheless prove that the firearm was carried without a license as that offense does not require intent.\n\nUFA establishes mandatory, statewide procedures for issuing a license to carry firearms. No municipality may establish their own rules regarding firearms, and changes to any firearms-related regulations must go through the Pennsylvania General Assembly. The act outlines the express right to a license in §6109:\n\n\nSection 6111(i) of the act provides that \"[a]ll information provided by the potential purchaser, transferee or applicant, including, but not limited to, the potential purchaser, transferee or applicant's name or identity, furnished by a potential purchaser or transferee under this section or any applicant for a license to carry a firearm as provided by section 6109 shall be confidential and not subject to public disclosure.\" A violation of this section gives rise to a private right of action against the violator for damages of \"$1,000 per occurrence or three times the actual damages incurred as a result of the violation, whichever is greater, as well as reasonable attorney fees.\"\n\nOn December 31, 2012, a class action lawsuit captioned \"Doe, et al. v. City of Philadelphia, et al.\", was filed in the Philadelphia Court of Common Pleas against the City of Philadelphia and several of its departments for placing on its website the confidential information of more than 1,500 individuals who appealed from the denial or revocation of their gun permit, in alleged violation of Section 6111(i). In 2014, the lawsuit was settled for $1.425 million, with the City paying the cost of administering the settlement. In addition, the City agreed to make expansive changes to its firearm-related and gun permit-related policies and procedures.\n\nOnce a permit to carry a firearm is issued in Pennsylvania in accordance with the requirement and strictures of the law, pursuant to Sec. 6109 (k) (2) and any agreements brokers between the Attorney General of the Commonwealth and the appropriate legislatively authorizes official in a sister State, that license will be recognized in those subscribing States. This is called \"reciprocity\" and it is enjoyed (at this time) with the States listed below. Under Pennsylvania law, there are six categories of firearms reciprocity status.\n\nCategory 1: States that have entered into written reciprocity agreements with Pennsylvania. These agreements provide for reciprocal recognition of valid permits issued by both states. Recognition in Pennsylvania varies based on the written agreement.\n\nCategory 2: States that have statutory reciprocity under 6106(b)(15) of the Uniform Firearms Act. The following states have been granted statutory reciprocity without a formal written agreement, based on the determination of the Attorney General that the other state has granted reciprocity to Pennsylvania license holders, and that the other state's laws governing firearms are similar:\n\nCategory 3: Unilateral reciprocity granted by another state for Pennsylvania license holders. \nThis category encompasses states which allow an individual issued a valid License To Carry Firearms from Pennsylvania to carry a firearm while in those respective states:\n\nCategory 4: Pennsylvanians may apply for a permit from another state (\"Application states\"):\nCategory 5: Pennsylvanians may carry without a license, included here for reference:\n\n\nThe act does not address the carrying of firearms in the open (also known as \"open carry\"). Thus it is legal to do so without a permit. However, the act states that any person may not carry a firearm in a city of the first class (Philadelphia is the only one in the Commonwealth) without a permit or falling under an exception. While carrying a firearm in the open in Philadelphia is legal for license holders, it is not a commonly used carrying technique. Philadelphia law enforcement officers are likely to detain an individual who is openly carrying a firearm.\n\nShould a citizen break one or more of the enumerated statutes in the UFA, they are subject to penalties outlined in the act. Police and court officers commonly refer to the charges collectively as VUFA; or, Violation of the Uniform Firearms Act. Penalties depend on the severity of the infraction.\n\nSome jurisdictions within the Pennsylvania Unified Court System have set up specialized court sessions to deal with violations of the Uniform Firearms Act. For example, the First Judicial District of Pennsylvania has allocated \"Gun Court\" sessions for defendants accused of violating certain parts of UFA. Upon conviction, the defendants can be sentenced to serve Probation under the supervision of special Gun Court Probation Officers.\n\n"}
