{"id": "38223819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38223819", "title": "1983 in philosophy", "text": "1983 in philosophy\n\n1983 in philosophy\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47382728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47382728", "title": "Ademiluyi Ajagun", "text": "Ademiluyi Ajagun\n\nAdemiluyi Ajagun was the 48th Ooni of Ife, a paramount traditional ruler of Ile Ife, the ancestral home of the Yorubas. He succeeded Ooni Adekola and was succeeded by Ooni Adesoji Aderemi.\n"}
{"id": "35311774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35311774", "title": "Alfredo Chavero", "text": "Alfredo Chavero\n\nAlfredo Chavero (1841–1906) was a Mexican archaeologist, politician, poet, and dramatist. \"Perhaps Chavero's most enduring claim to remembrance rests...on [his] completion and extension of Ramírez's plans to republish major native histories and his editorship of pictorial documents.\"\n\nHe has made many investigations relative to Mexican antiquities, and written \"Historia Antigua de Mexico\", also several works on Aztec archaeology, especially on ancient monuments. While making excavations in the pyramids of Cholula, he discovered some idols that are now in the National Museum of Mexico.\n\nHe became a member of the Mexican Congress in 1869, and supported Presidents Benito Juárez, Sebastián Lerdo de Tejada, Manuel González, and Porfirio Díaz in succession, notwithstanding their different policies. On 25 June 1879, the government of Diaz ordered the execution of nine citizens of Vera Cruz who were suspected of conspiracy. This act was severely criticised, and great indignation was shown against Mier y Terán, who had executed the order, and against Diaz. Chavero, then grand master of a masonic lodge, and expelled Mier y Terán from the brotherhood, and suspended Diaz from his masonic rights. This action gave Chavero great popularity. In congress Chavero also made a strong speech against Mier and Diaz, but afterward became one of his adherents. Chavero was elected senator in 1886, and was professor in the mining and law schools of Mexico.\n\nHe is the author of the dramas “La Reina Xochitl” and “La tempestad de un beso,” “Quetzalcoatl,” “Los amores de Alarcón,” “La hermana de los Ávilas,” “El mundo de ahora,” and others. His books relative to Father Sahagún and to the Sun Stone are often referred to.\n\nChavero was elected a member of the American Antiquarian Society in 1881.\n\nWhen the Mexican government proposed the Law of Monuments (1897), which passed overwhelmingly in the Mexican Congress, Chavero opposed the provision banned the export of Mexican artifacts, which in his view \"hindered the flow of artifacts to museums abroad and thus obstructed the cause of science.\" At the 1902 International Congress of Americanists in New York, Chavero gave some credit to the French project headed by the Duke of Loubat for major discoveries at Monte Albán. This public declaration before Americanist luminaries, such as Eduard Seler and Franz Boas was interrupted by Leopoldo Batres, inspector national monuments, Chavero's rival who had excavated at Monte Albán, who strenuously objected to Chavero's assertion, since the work was paid for by the Mexican government.\n\nHe donated the Chavero Codex of Huexotzingo to the National Museum of Mexico in 1906.\n\nA selected list of Chavero's writings of ethnohistorial interest is published in the \"Handbook of Middle American Indians\".\n\nAttribution:\n"}
{"id": "5736781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5736781", "title": "Andrey Korotayev", "text": "Andrey Korotayev\n\nAndrey Vitalievich Korotayev (; born 17 February 1961) is a Russian anthropologist, economic historian, comparative political scientist, demographer and sociologist, with major contributions to world-systems theory, cross-cultural studies, Near Eastern history, Big History, and mathematical modelling of social and economic macrodynamics.\n\nHe is currently the Head of the Laboratory for Monitoring of the Risks of Sociopolitical Destabilization at the National Research University Higher School of Economics, and a Senior Research Professor at the Center for Big History and System Forecasting of the Institute of Oriental Studies as well as in the Institute for African Studies of the Russian Academy of Sciences.\n\nIn addition, he is a Senior Research Professor of the International Laboratory on Political Demography and Social Macrodynamics (PDSM) of the Russian Presidential Academy of National Economy and Public Administration, as well as a Full Professor of the Faculty of Global Studies of the Moscow State University.\n\nHe is co-editor of the journals \"Social Evolution & History\" and \"Journal of Globalization Studies\", as well as \"History & Mathematics\" yearbook (together with Leonid Grinin and Arno Tausch).\n\nTogether with Askar Akayev and George Malinetsky he is a coordinator of the Russian Academy of Sciences Program \"System Analysis and Mathematical Modeling of World Dynamics\".\n\nBorn in Moscow, Andrey Korotayev attended Moscow State University, where he received a BA in 1984 and an MA in 1989. He earned a PhD in 1993 from Manchester University, and in 1998 a Doctor of Sciences degree from the Russian Academy of Sciences.\n\nKorotayev is a laureate of the Russian Science Support Foundation in \"The Best Economists of the Russian Academy of Sciences\" nomination (2006). In 2012 he was awarded with the Gold Kondratieff Medal by the International N. D. Kondratieff Foundation.\n\nIn this field he has proposed one of the most convincing mathematical explanations for von Foerster's Doomsday Equation. In collaboration with his colleagues, Artemy Malkov and Daria Khaltourina, he has shown that till the 1970s the hyperbolic growth of the world population was accompanied by quadratic-hyperbolic growth of the world GDP, and developed a number of mathematical models describing both of these phenomena simultaneously; he has also described mathematically the World System withdrawal from the blow-up regime observed in the recent decades.\n\nThe hyperbolic growth of the world population and quadratic-hyperbolic growth of the world GDP observed till the 1970s have been correlated by him and his colleagues to a non-linear second order positive feedback between the demographic growth and technological development that can be spelled out as follows: technological growth – increase in the carrying capacity of land for people – demographic growth – more people – more potential inventors – acceleration of technological growth – accelerating growth of the carrying capacity – the faster population growth – accelerating growth of the number of potential inventors – faster technological growth – hence, the faster growth of the Earth's carrying capacity for people, and so on.\n\nHe has also shown that the world urban population growth curve has also up till recently followed a quadratic-hyperbolic pattern. In addition, Korotayev and his colleagues have proposed a number of forecasts of the World System development up to 2100.\n\nIn collaboration with Alexander V. Markov he has demonstrated that a similar mathematical model can be developed to describe the macrotrends of biological evolution. They have shown that changes in biodiversity through the Phanerozoic correlate much better with hyperbolic model (widely used in demography and macrosociology) than with exponential and logistic models (traditionally used in population biology and extensively applied to fossil biodiversity as well). The latter models imply that changes in diversity are guided by a first-order positive feedback (more ancestors, more descendants) and/or a negative feedback arising from resource limitation. Hyperbolic model implies a second-order positive feedback. The hyperbolic pattern of the world population growth has been demonstrated by Korotayev to arise from a second-order positive feedback between the population size and the rate of technological growth. According to Korotayev and Markov, the hyperbolic character of biodiversity growth can be similarly accounted for by a feedback between the diversity and community structure complexity. They suggest that the similarity between the curves of biodiversity and human population probably comes from the fact that both are derived from the interference of the hyperbolic trend with cyclical and stochastic dynamics.\n\nIn the field of cliodynamics, Korotayev has developed a number of mathematical models of interaction between the very long-term, \"millennial\" hyperbolic trend dynamics of social systems and the shorter-term, \"secular\" (that is, observed at the scale of centuries), cyclical dynamics.\n\nHe has also produced a number of mathematical models describing specifically long-term political-demographic dynamics of Egypt and used them for a demographic structural analysis of the 2011 Egyptian Revolution. Korotayev was one of the first to predict and assess the June 2013 Egyptian protests. Note also his recent interpretation of the Arab Spring events as a trigger of a global \"phase transition\".\n\nOf special importance is his study of the hypothesis that population pressure causes increased warfare. This hypothesis has been recently criticised on the empirical grounds. Both studies focusing on specific historical societies and analyses of cross-cultural data have failed to find positive correlation between population density and incidence of warfare. Korotayev, in collaboration with Peter Turchin, has shown that such negative results do not falsify the population-warfare hypothesis. Population and warfare are dynamical variables, and if their interaction causes sustained oscillations, then we do not in general expect to find strong correlation between the two variables measured at the same time (that is, unlagged). Korotayev and Turchin have explored mathematically what the dynamical patterns of interaction between population and warfare (focusing on internal warfare) might be in both stateless and state societies. Next, they have tested the model predictions in several empirical case studies: early modern England, Han and Tang China, and the Roman Empire. Their empirical results have supported the population-warfare theory: Korotayev and Turchin have found that there is a tendency for population numbers and internal warfare intensity to oscillate with the same period but shifted in phase (with warfare peaks following population peaks). Furthermore, they have demonstrated that in the agrarian societies the rates of change of the two variables behave precisely as predicted by the theory: population rate of change is negatively affected by warfare intensity, while warfare rate of change is positively affected by population density. As Kohler and Reed put it, Korotayev and Turchin have demonstrated that \"human population movements and sociopolitical strife play the roles of sometimes endogenous, sometimes exogenous, factors that on small spatial scales may seem inexplicable but which on longer temporal and wider spatial scales may have understandable rhythms\".\n\nThus, Korotayev has demonstrated that the Malthusian trap tends to generate sociopolitical upheavals. On the other hand, he has shown that the escape from the Malthusian trap is accompanied by another \"trap\" generating new sociopolitical upheavals (what he calls \"a trap at the escape from the trap\"). \n\nIn collaboration with Daria Khaltourina he has made a significant contribution to the study of the factors of the current Russian demographic crisis. They have demonstrated that post-Soviet Russia experiences one of the world's highest prevalence of alcohol-related problems, which contributes to high mortality rates in this region. Reduction in alcohol-related problems in Russia can have strong effects on mortality decline. They have analysed the plausibility of application of general principles of alcohol policy translated in the Russian Federation. Korotayev and Khaltourina have shown that alcohol policy approaches could be implemented in the same ways as they have been in other countries, and contributed to the development of alcohol control measures in this country. In addition, according to Korotayev, there should be special attention to decreasing distilled spirits consumption, illegal alcohol production, nonbeverage alcohol consumption, and enforcement of current governmental regulations. In late 2014 they correctly predicted the forthcoming return of Russia to negative natural population growth.\n\nKorotayev and his colleagues have demonstrated that Protestantism has indeed influenced positively the capitalist development of respective social systems not so much through the \"Protestant ethics\" (as was suggested by Max Weber) but rather through the promotion of literacy.\n\nAndrey Korotayev claims that the present-day world-system (\"the World System\"), which in the 2nd millennium CE encompassed the whole globe, originated in the 9th millennium BCE in direct connection with the Neolithic revolution. According to Korotayev, the centre of this system was originally in West Asia.\n\nIn general, Korotayev and his colleagues have suggested a rather novel approach to the world-system analysis. Within this approach the main emphasis is moved to the generation and diffusion of innovations. If a society borrows systematically important technological innovations, its evolution already cannot be considered as really independent, but should rather be considered as a part of a larger evolving entity, within which such innovations are systematically produced and diffused. The main idea of the world-system approach was to find the evolving unit. The basic idea was that it is impossible to account for the evolution of a single society without taking into consideration that it was a part of a larger whole. However, traditional world-system analysis concentrated on bulk-good movements, and core – periphery exploitation, somehow neglecting the above-mentioned dimension. However, according to Korotayev, the information network turns out to be the oldest mechanism of the World System integration, and remained extremely important throughout its whole history, remaining important up to the present. It seems to be even more important than the core – periphery exploitation (for example, without taking this mechanism into consideration it appears impossible to account for such things as the demographic explosion in the 20th century, whose proximate cause was the dramatic decline of mortality, but whose main ultimate cause was the diffusion of innovations produced almost exclusively within the World System core). This also suggests a redefinition of the World System core. Within the approach in question the core is not the World System zone, which exploits other zones, but rather the World System core is the zone with the highest innovation donor/recipient ratio, the principal innovation donor.\nKorotayev suggests that the hyperbolic trend observed for the world population growth after 10000 BCE does appear to be primarily a product of the growth of the World System. The presence of the hyperbolic trend itself indicates that the major part of the entity in question had some systemic unity, and Korotayev insists that the evidence for this unity is readily available. Indeed, he shows that we have evidence for the systematic spread of major innovations (domesticated cereals, cattle, sheep, goats, horses, plow, wheel, copper, bronze, and later iron technology, and so on) throughout the whole North African – Eurasian Oikumene for a few millennia BCE. As a result, the evolution of societies of this part of the world already at this time cannot be regarded as truly independent. By the end of the 1st millennium BCE we observe a belt of cultures, stretching from the Atlantic to the Pacific, with an astonishingly similar level of cultural complexity characterised by agricultural production of wheat and other specific cereals, the breeding of cattle, sheep, and goats; use of the plow, iron metallurgy, and wheeled transport; development of professional armies and cavalries deploying rather similar weapons; elaborate bureaucracies, and Axial Age ideologies, and so on – this list could be extended for pages. A few millennia before, we would find another belt of societies strikingly similar in level and character of cultural complexity, stretching from the Balkans up to the Indus Valley outskirts. Korotayev interprets this as a tangible result of the World System's functioning.\n\nTogether with Leonid Grinin he has also made a significant contribution to the current Great Divergence debate. As is noted by Jack Goldstone, the \"new view, carefully presented and rigorously modeled by Grinin and Korotayev, provides a richer and more nuanced version of the \"Great Divergence,\" bridging many of the differences between the traditional and California viewpoints. Yet they go further. Amazingly, by building a model using human capital (education), global population growth, and regional productivity, they show how both the Great Divergence and the recent \"Great Convergence\" (the economic catching up of developing countries) are phases of the same process of global modernisation.\" In addition, Korotayev's research has revealed a close coupling between phases of global demographic transition and phases of the Great Divergence and Great Convergence.\n\nNote also his research on Kondratiev waves in the world GDP dynamics that, employing spectral analysis, has confirmed their presence at an acceptable level of statistical significance.\n\nHe has also detected Kondratieff waves in the global dynamics of invention activities.\n\nIn addition, it appears necessary to maintain that Korotayev's theory of the World System development suggests a novel approach to the formation of a general theory of social macroevolution. The approach prevalent in social evolutionism is based on the assumption that evolutionary regularities of simple systems are significantly simpler than the ones characteristic of complex systems. A rather logical outcome of this almost self-evident assumption is that one should first study the evolutionary regularities of simple systems and only after understanding them move to more complex ones, whereas Korotayev's findings suggest that the simplest regularities accounting for extremely large proportions of all the macrovariation can be found precisely for the largest possible system – the human world, and, hence, the study of social evolution should proceed from the detection of simple regularities of the development of the most complex systems to the study of the complex laws of the dynamics of simple social systems.\n\nFrom a complexity perspective Korotayev's establishes a key point, that of the bifurcations of social and kinship organisation that coalesced historically around the differential practices of the major world religions. It draws on the World Cultural database and the world religion as well as other variables. The Murdockian comparative approach, up to Korotayev, had developed to the point where the nonindependence of cultures was well-recognized, and ways of taking the larger configurations of cultural systems into account had been reckoned to lie, in the latest iteration, along lines of high-order proto-linguistic communities. Korotayev demonstrates the effects of breaking what might be seen as a ritual taboo of Murdockian comparison: Thou Shalt Not Code World Religion. By doing so, Korotayev releases the Murdockian spell that lingers over the comparative approach in anthropology, and goes on to demonstrate the powerful effects of world religious communities — dating from what Jaspers calls the \"Axial Age\" (800–200 BCE) – on the preservation and differentiation of distinctive social and political structures in Eurasia. His introduction and conclusion suggest that an objectivist natural history approach to human history, in which subjective factors are of local importance but fade out in terms of lasting effects over generations, is a valid approach to the \"pre-Axial\" condition of human societies, while a subjectivist history of consciousness is a necessary complement to the \"post-Axial\" condition. Korotayev succeeds in placing these two complementary approaches in context and showing their linkages in terms of how subjective and religious factors play out in human history alongside objective factors such as demography and ecology, each informing the other. He shows how it is impossible to arrive at valid inferential results from comparative approaches without an integration of the two, a situation he aptly calls \"Galton's opportunity\" for those are of century-old critiques of the comparative method. The reader will be surprised at the depth of empirical comparative findings in this short book. Following Murray Leaf's Man, Mind and Science (1974) this work is a major contribution to repair of the material/ideational rift in anthropology.\n\nOne of his particular contributions in this field is connected with the classical anthropological issue of determinants of matrilocal versus patrilocal postmarital residence. Early theories explaining the determinants of postmarital residence (e.g., Lewis Henry Morgan, Edward Tylor, or George Peter Murdock) connected it with the sexual division of labour. However, to the moment when Korotayev's research in this field began, cross-cultural tests of this hypothesis using worldwide samples had failed to find any significant relationship between these two variables. Korotayev's tests have shown that the female contribution to subsistence does correlate significantly with matrilocal residence in general; however, this correlation is masked by a general polygyny factor. Although an increase in the female contribution to subsistence tends to lead to matrilocal residence, it also tends simultaneously to lead to general non-sororal polygyny which effectively destroys matrilocality. If this polygyny factor is controlled (e. g., through a multiple regression model), division of labour turns out to be a significant predictor of postmarital residence. Thus, Murdock's hypotheses regarding the relationships between the sexual division of labour and postmarital residence were basically correct, though, as has been shown by Korotayev, the actual relationships between those two groups of variables are more complicated than he expected.\n\nKorotayev was also one of the pioneers (together with his colleagues) of the study of correlation between spatial distributions of folklore-mythological motifs and genetic markers, as well as linguistic and sociostructural characteristics, and produced in this area significant results with respect to the deep history reconstruction. As is noticed by Julien d'Huy et al., \"Korotayev and Khaltourina showed statistical correlation between spatial distributions of mythological motifs and genetic markers, considerably above the 4,000 km... Such correlations allow us to reconstruct in detail the mythology... brought to the New World from South Siberia by three Paleolithic migration waves\".\n\nKorotayev studies variables that are usually regarded as the main causes of the decline of unilineal descent organisation (statehood, class stratification and commercialisation), along with a variable that had never been regarded as such a cause – deep Christianization. He postulates that the traditionally accepted causes of the decline of unilineal descent organisation (statehood, class stratification, commercialisation) are less significant than deep Christianization. He also theorises that the presence of unilineal descent groups correlates negatively with communal democracy and is especially strong for complex traditional societies. Korotayev concludes that, because the communal democracy correlates positively with the supracommunal one, the Christianization of Europe might have contributed to the development of modern democracy by helping to destroy unilineal descent organisation in this region.\n\nIslamization, along with an area's inclusion in the 8th-century Arab-Islamic Khalifate (and its persistence within the Islamic world) has been demonstrated by Korotayev to be a strong and significant predictor of parallel cousin (Father's Brother's Daughter – FBD) marriage. He has shown that while there is a clear functional connection between Islam and FBD marriage, the prescription to marry a FBD does not appear to be sufficient to persuade people to actually marry thus, even if the marriage brings with it economic advantages. According to Korotayev, a systematic acceptance of parallel-cousin marriage took place when Islamization occurred together with Arabization.\n\nKorotayev has made a special contribution in this field by detecting principal trends in the evolution of Yemeni cultures through application of quantitative methods to the analysis of mass epigraphic sources in the Sabaic language. Korotayev has thereby discovered the phenomenon of consolidation of the clan organisation in North-East Yemen in the late 1st millennium BCE as well as the transition from chiefdoms to tribes in early medieval Yemen. He was also the first to provide convincing evidence for the existence of matrilineal descent organisation in Pre-Islamic Arabia and to suggest an adequate translation of the largest Qatabanic inscription, R 3566.\n\nKorotayev and his colleagues have also made significant contributions to the study of political-demographic dynamics in Subsaharan Africa, especially, the problems of the Tropical African countries' escape from the Malthusian trap.\n\nKorotayev has also done (together with his colleagues Vladimir Klimenko and Dmitry Proussakov) a significant contribution to the study of the origins of Islam. Korotayev and his colleagues view the origins of Islam against the background of the 6th century Arabian socioecological crisis whose model is specified by Korotayev and his colleagues through the study of climatological, seismological, volcanological and epidemiological history of the period. They find that most sociopolitical systems of the Arabs reacted to the socioecological crisis by getting rid of the rigid supratribal political structures (kingdoms and chiefdoms) which started posing a real threat to their very survival.\n\nThe decades of fighting which led to the destruction of the most of the Arabian kingdoms and chiefdoms (reflected in \"Ayyam al-'Arab\" tradition) led to the elaboration of some definite \"antiroyal\" freedom-loving tribal ethos. At the beginning of the 7th century a tribe which would recognise themselves as subjects of some terrestrial supratribal political authority, a \"king\", risked to lose its honour. However, this seems not to be applicable to the authority of another type, the \"celestial\" one. At the meantime the early 7th century evidences the merging of the Arabian tradition of prophecy and the Arabian Monotheist \"Rahmanist\" tradition which produced \"the Arabian prophetic movement\".\n\nAccording to Korotayev, the Monotheist \"Rahmanist\" prophets appear to have represented a supratribal authority just of the type many Arab tribes were looking for at this very time, which seems to explain to a certain extent those prophets' political success (including the extreme political success of Muhammad).\n\nKorotayev has written over 29 books and 240 articles dealing with his research interests . These include\nAmong his more important journal articles are\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4441708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4441708", "title": "Antonín Rezek", "text": "Antonín Rezek\n\nAntonín Rezek (13 January 1853 in Jindřichův Hradec – 4 February 1909 in Prague) was a renowned Czech political historian, specialized in political and religious history of the 16th to 18th century.\n\nSon of a renowned watchmaker, Rezek graduated 1875 at Charles University in Prague, where he became professor of general history in 1883. In the years 1900 - 1903 he was minister of the Imperial Austrian government in Vienna. He published numerous popular articles and works, edited many documents from the archives and reedited several Czech chronicles from the 17th century. His works excel in perfect documentation and detailed knowledge of the matter.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1428931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1428931", "title": "Association for Industrial Archaeology", "text": "Association for Industrial Archaeology\n\nThe Association for Industrial Archaeology (AIA) was established in 1973 to promote the study of industrial archaeology and to encourage improved standards of recording, research, conservation and publication. It aims to support individuals and groups involved in those objectives and to represent the interests of industrial archaeology at a national level. It is a non-profit making registered charity (No. 277511) and a company limited by guarantee, its registered office is care of the Ironbridge Gorge Museum Trust.\n\nThe association is currently chaired by Mark Sissons, from September 2014, Keith Falconer OBE. The president is Professor Marilyn Palmer, MA (Oxon), Ph.D. Leicester, FSA, Professor Emeritus of Industrial Archaeology, University of Leicester (University of Leicester, January 2014). Overall administration is carried out by an elected Council of Management, whilst day-to-day operations are overseen by the officers of the association.\n\nThrough its council it has contacts with both traditional archaeology and with those statutory organisations responsible for recording, preserving and funding Britain's historic monuments. The council also has contacts with the International Committee for the Conservation Of Industrial Heritage (TICCIH) and, at the European level, the European Federation of Associations of Industrial and Technical Heritage (E-faith).\n\nSince its foundation the association has gathered at an annual conference held at various locations throughout the UK and Ireland. The 2013 conference was held in Dundee, Scotland with the 2014 conference planned for Chester, England in September. Brighton, England is the venue for 2015. Each conference occupies a weekend but is followed by several days of visits and lectures. Additionally, the association organizes a spring weekend conference open to both members and non-members.\n\nOne important function of the association is to represent the interests of industrial archaeology in the planning process. The AIA is not a Statutory Consultee itself and the association's role in the process is carried out by its Endangered Sites Officer via the Council for British Archaeology (CBA).\n\nThanks to a series of generous donations the AIA has been able over the last five years to make available Restoration Grants for a number of worthwhile projects. To date seventeen grants have been made, examples of which are:\n\n\nThe grants are for up to £20,000 and are only for capital projects and not on-going running costs. Applicants must be non-profit organisations, trusts, charities etc. and not businesses or individuals. Full details can be found on the association's web-site, see link below.\n\nThe AIA also provides an opportunity for taking part in escorted overseas visits that explore engineering history and industrial archaeology. These visits are organized for the association by \"Heritage of Industry\" and details of current and pending visits are to be found on the association's web-site.\n\nIndustrial Archaeology Review, a bi-annual peer-reviewed journal, is sent to all members whilst a quarterly newsletter, the Industrial Archaeology News, contains shorter articles, reviews and a calendar of events. Additional occasional publications include regional gazetteers for areas where annual conferences take place.\n\nThe association has some 520 individual members and approximately 50 local societies and organisations affiliated to it.\n\nThe following organisations are or have been corporate members of the AIA:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16541902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16541902", "title": "Aubrey Gwynn", "text": "Aubrey Gwynn\n\nAubrey Osborn Gwynn (17 February 1892 – 18 May 1983) was an Irish Jesuit historian.\n\nAubrey Gwynn was born in Dublin on 17th February 1892. His father was the author and sometime Member of Parliament Stephen Gwynn; his paternal grandfather was John Gwynn, Regius Professor of Divinity at Trinity College Dublin. His mother Mary Gwynn (generally known as May Gwynn) was a first cousin of his father's, her own father being the Reverend James Gwynn, sometime chaplain of the Octagon Chapel, Bath. The Gwynn family at that time adhered to the Protestant tradition.\n\nAubrey Gwynn converted to Roman Catholicism at the age of ten, at the same time as his mother May Gwynn was received into the Roman Catholic Church. He attended Clongowes Wood College, a Jesuit secondary school in Dublin, from 1903 to 1908, then studied at University College, Dublin (where he received his BA degree in 1914 and his MA in 1915) and Campion Hall, Oxford (where he obtained the degree of B Litt in 1919). In 1912, while still a student at University College, he became a member of the Society of Jesus.\n\nAfter graduating Aubrey Gwynn worked as a teacher at Clongowes College (1917–1919), Louvain (1919–1921) and Milltown Park (1921–1925).\n\nIn 1927 Father Aubrey was appointed Lecturer in Ancient History at University College, Dublin. He went on to lecture in Medieval History (1930-1947), then in 1948 he became the college’s Professor of Medieval History, a post he retained until 1962. He was President of the Royal Irish Academy from 1958 to 1961. \n\nAubrey Gwynn wrote extensively on Irish and church history as well as on other topics. His brother Denis Rolleston Gwynn (1893–1971) was also an historian, being for much of his life Professor of Modern Irish History at University College, Cork.\n\nA watercolour portrait of Aubrey Gwynn as a child by his godfather Walter Osborne is in the collection of the National Gallery of Ireland.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44409804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44409804", "title": "Causes of income inequality in the United States", "text": "Causes of income inequality in the United States\n\nCauses of income inequality in the United States describes why changes in the country's income distribution are occurring. This topic is subject to extensive ongoing research, media attention, and political interest, as it involves how the national income of the country is split among its people at various income levels.\n\nIncome inequality in the United States has grown significantly since the early 1970s, after several decades of stability, and has been the subject of study of many scholars and institutions. The U.S. consistently exhibits higher rates of income inequality than most developed nations, arguably due to the nation's relatively enhanced support of free market capitalism.\n\nAccording to the CBO and others, \"the precise reasons for the [recent] rapid growth in income at the top are not well understood\", but \"in all likelihood,\" an \"interaction of multiple factors\" was involved. \"Researchers have offered several potential rationales.\" Some of these rationales conflict, some overlap. They include:\n\nPaul Krugman put several of these factors into context in January 2015: \"Competition from emerging-economy exports has surely been a factor depressing wages in wealthier nations, although probably not the dominant force. More important, soaring incomes at the top were achieved, in large part, by squeezing those below: by cutting wages, slashing benefits, crushing unions, and diverting a rising share of national resources to financial wheeling and dealing ... Perhaps more important still, the wealthy exert a vastly disproportionate effect on policy. And elite priorities — obsessive concern with budget deficits, with the supposed need to slash social programs — have done a lot to deepen [wage stagnation and income inequality].\"\n\nOne view of economic equity is that employee compensation should rise with productivity (defined as real output per hour of labor worked). In other words, if the employee produces more, they should be paid accordingly. If pay lags behind productivity, income inequality grows, as labor's share of the output is falling, while capital's share (generally higher-income owners) is rising.\nAccording to a June 2017 report from the non-partisan Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), productivity rose in tandem with employee compensation (a measure which includes wages as well as benefits such as health insurance) from the 1940s through the 1970s. However, since then productivity has grown faster than compensation. BLS refers to this as the \"productivity-compensation gap\", an issue which has garnered much attention from academics and policymakers. BLS reported this gap occurs across most industries: \"When examined at a detailed industry level, the average annual percent change in productivity outpaced compensation in 83 percent of 183 industries studied\" measured from 1987-2015. \nFor example, in the information industry, productivity increased at an annual average rate of 5.0% over the 1987-2015 period, while compensation increased at about a 1.5% rate, resulting in a 3.5% productivity gap. In Manufacturing, the gap was 2.7%; in Retail Trade 2.6%; and in Transportation and Warehousing 1.3%. This analysis adjusted for inflation using the Consumer Price Index or CPI, a measure of inflation based on what is consumed, rather than what is produced.\n\nBLS explained the gap between productivity and compensation can be divided into two components, the effect of which varies by industry: 1) Recalculating the gap using an industry-specific inflation adjustment (\"industry deflator\") rather than consumption (CPI); and 2) The change in labor's share of income, defined as how much of a business' revenue goes to workers as opposed to intermediate purchases (i.e., cost of goods) and capital (owners) in that industry.\nThe difference in deflators was the stronger effect among high productivity growth industries, while the change in labor's share of income was the stronger effect among most other industries. For example, the 3.5% productivity gap in the information industry was composed of a 2.1% difference in deflators and about a 1.4% due to change in labor share. The 2.7% gap in Manufacturing included 1.0% due to deflator and 1.7% due to change in labor share.\n\nBLS explained the decline in labor share as likely driven by three factors that vary by industry:\n\nGlobalization refers to the integration of economies in terms of trade, information, and jobs. Innovations in supply chain management enabled goods to be sourced in Asia and shipped to the United States less expensively than in the past. This integration of economies, particularly with the U.S. and Asia, had dramatic impacts on income inequality globally.\n\nEconomist Branko Milanovic analyzed global income inequality, comparing 1988 and 2008. His analysis indicated that the global top 1% and the middle classes of the emerging economies (e.g., China, India, Indonesia, Brazil and Egypt) were the main winners of globalization during that time. The real (inflation adjusted) income of the global top 1% increased approximately 60%, while the middle classes of the emerging economies (those around the 50th percentile of the global income distribution in 1988) rose 70–80%. For example, in 2000, 5 million Chinese households earned between $11,500 and $43,000 in 2016 dollars. By 2015, 225 million did. On the other hand, those in the middle class of the developed world (those in the 75th to 90th percentile in 1988, such as the American middle class) experienced little real income gains. The richest 1% contains 60 million persons globally, including 30 million Americans (i.e., the top 12% of Americans by income were in the global top 1% in 2008), the most out of any country.\n\nWhile economists who have studied globalization agree imports have had an effect, the timing of import growth does not match the growth of income inequality. By 1995 imports of manufactured goods from low-wage countries totalled less than 3% of US gross domestic product.\n\nIt wasn't until 2006 that the US imported more manufactured goods from low-wage (developing) countries than from high-wage (advanced) economies. Inequality increased during the 2000–2010 decade not because of stagnating wages for less-skilled workers, but because of accelerating incomes of the top 0.1%. Author Timothy Noah estimates that \"trade\", increases in imports are responsible for just 10% of the \"Great Divergence\" in income distribution.\n\nJournalist James Surowiecki notes that in the last 50 years, companies and the sectors of the economy providing the most employment in the US – major retailers, restaurant chains, and supermarkets – are ones with lower profit margins and less pricing power than in the 1960s; while sectors with high profit margins and average salaries – like high technology – have relatively few employees.\n\nSome economists claim that it is WTO-led globalization and competition from developing countries, especially China, that has resulted in the recent decline in labor's share of income and increased unemployment in the U.S. And the Economic Policy Institute and the Center for Economic and Policy Research argue that some trade agreements such as the Trans-Pacific Partnership could result in further job losses and declining wages.\n\nOne argument contrary to the globalization/technology hypothesis relates to variation across countries. Japan, Sweden and France did not experience significant increases in income inequality during the 1979–2010 period, although the U.S. did. The top 1% income group continued to receive less than 10% of the income share in these countries, while the U.S. share rose from 10% to over 20%. Economist Emmanuel Saez wrote in 2014: \"Differences across countries rule out technical change/globalization as the sole explanation ... Policies play a key role in shaping inequality (tax and transfer policies, regulations, education).\"\n\nEric Posner and Glen Weyl point out that inequality can be predominantly explained by the superstar hypothesis. In their opinion Piketty fails to observe the accelerated turnover that is occurring in the Forbes 400; only 35 people from the original 1982 list remain today. Many have fallen off as a result of heavy spending, large-scale philanthropy, and bad investments. The current Forbes 400 is now primarily made up of newly wealthy business owners, not heirs and heiresses. In parallel research, the University of Chicago's Steven Kaplan and Stanford University's Joshua Rauh note that 69% of those on the Forbes list are actually first generation wealth creators. That figure has risen dramatically since 1982 when it stood at 40%.\n\nEd Dolan supports the globalization and superstar hypothesis but points out that the high earnings are based, to some extent, on moral hazard like \"Bonus-based compensation schemes with inadequate clawback for losses\" and the shift of losses to shareholders, unsecured creditors, or taxpayers. Paul Krugman argues that for the US the surge in inequality to date is mainly due to supersalaries but capital has nonetheless been significant too. And when the current generation of the 1% turn over their wealth to their heirs these become rentiers, people who live off accumulated capital. Two decades from now America could turn into a rentier-dominated society even more unequal than Belle Époque Europe.\n\nOne study extended the superstar hypothesis to corporations, with firms that are more dominant in their industry (in some cases due to oligopoly or monopoly) paying their workers far more than the average in the industry. Another study noted that \"superstar firms\" is another explanation for the decline in the overall share of income (GDP) going to workers/labor as opposed to owners/capital.\n\nIncome differences between the varying levels of educational attainment (usually measured by the highest degree of education an individual has completed) have increased. Expertise and skill certified through an academic degree translates into increased scarcity of an individual's occupational qualification which in turn leads to greater economic rewards. As the United States has developed into a post-industrial society more and more employers require expertise that they did not a generation ago, while the manufacturing sector which employed many of those lacking a post-secondary education is decreasing in size.\n\nIn the resulting economic job market the income discrepancy between the working class and the professional with the higher academic degrees, who possess scarce amounts of certified expertise, may be growing.\n\nHouseholds in the upper quintiles are generally home to more, better educated and employed working income earners, than those in lower quintiles.\nAmong those in the upper quintile, 62% of householders were college graduates, 80% worked full-time and 76% of households had two or more income earners, compared to the national percentages of 27%, 58% and 42%, respectively.\nUpper-most sphere US Census Bureau data indicated that occupational achievement and the possession of scarce skills correlates with higher income.\n\nThe \"college premium\" refers to the increase in income to workers with four-year college degrees relative to those without. The college premium doubled from 1980 to 2005, as the demand for college-educated workers has exceeded the supply. Economists Goldin and Katz estimate that the increase in economic returns to education was responsible for about 60% of the increase in wage inequality between 1973 and 2005. The supply of available graduates did not keep up with business demand due primarily to increasingly expensive college educations. Annual tuition at public and private universities averaged 4% and 20% respectively of the annual median family income from the 1950s to 1970s; by 2005 these figures were 10% and 45% as colleges raised prices in response to demand. Economist David Autor wrote in 2014 that approximately two-thirds of the rise in income inequality between 1980 and 2005 was accounted for by the increased premium associated with education in general and post-secondary education in particular.\n\nTwo researchers have suggested that children in low income families are exposed to 636 words an hour, as opposed to 2,153 words in high income families during the first four formative years of a child's development. This, in turn, led to low achievement in later schooling due to the inability of the low income group to verbalize concepts.\n\nA psychologist has stated that society stigmatizes poverty. Conversely, poor people tend to believe that the wealthy have been lucky or have earned their money through illegal means. She believes that both attitudes need to be discarded if the nation is to make headway in addressing the issue of inequality. She suggests that college not be a litmus test of success; that valorizing of one profession as more important than another is a problem.\n\nAs of the mid- to late- decade of the 2000s, the most common explanation for income inequality in America was \"skill-biased technological change\" (SBTC) – \"a shift in the production technology that favors skilled over unskilled labor by increasing its relative productivity and, therefore, its relative demand\". For example, one scholarly colloquium on the subject that included many prominent labor economists estimated that technological change was responsible for over 40% of the increase in inequality. Other factors like international trade, decline in real minimum wage, decline in unionization and rising immigration, were each responsible for 10–15% of the increase.\n\nEducation has a notable influence on income distribution. In 2005, roughly 55% of income earners with doctorate degrees – the most educated 1.4% – were among the top 15 percent earners. Among those with Master's degrees – the most educated 10% – roughly half had incomes among the top 20 percent of earners. Only among households in the top quintile were householders with college degrees in the majority.\n\nBut while the higher education commonly translates into higher income, and the highly educated are disproportionately represented in upper quintile households, differences in educational attainment fail to explain income discrepancies between the top 1 percent and the rest of the population. Large percentages of individuals lacking a college degree are present in all income demographics, including 33% of those with heading households with six figure incomes.\nFrom 2000 to 2010, the 1.5% of Americans with an M.D., J.D., or M.B.A. and the 1.5% with a PhD saw median income gains of approximately 5%. Among those with a college or master's degree (about 25% of the American workforce) average wages dropped by about 7%, (though this was less than the decline in wages for those who had not completed college). Post-2000 data has provided \"little evidence\" for SBTC's role in increasing inequality. The wage premium for college educated has risen little and there has been little shift in shares of employment to more highly skilled occupations.\n\nApproaching the issue from occupations that have been replaced or downgraded since the late 1970s, one scholar found that jobs that \"require some thinking but not a lot\" – or moderately skilled middle-class occupations such as cashiers, typists, welders, farmers, appliance repairmen – declined the furthest in wage rates and/or numbers. Employment requiring either more skill or less has been less affected. However the timing of the great technological change of the era – internet use by business starting in the late 1990s – does not match that of the growth of income inequality (starting in the early 1970s but slackening somewhat in the 1990s). Nor does the introduction of technologies that increase the demand for more skilled workers seem to be generally associated with a divergence in household income among the population. Inventions of the 20th century such as AC electric power, the automobile, airplane, radio, television, the washing machine, Xerox machine, each had an economic impact similar to computers, microprocessors and internet, but did not coincide with greater inequality.\n\nAnother explanation is that the \"combination\" of the introduction of technologies that increase the demand for skilled workers, \"and\" the failure of the American education system to provide a sufficient increase in those skilled workers has bid up those workers' salaries. An example of the slowdown in education growth in America (that began about the same time as the Great Divergence began) is the fact that the average person born in 1945 received two more years of schooling than his parents, while the average person born in 1975 received only half a year more of schooling. Author Timothy Noah's \"back-of-the-envelope\" estimation based on \"composite of my discussions with and reading of the various economists and political scientists\" is that the \"various failures\" in America's education system are \"responsible for 30%\" of the post-1978 increase in inequality.\n\nIncome levels vary by gender and race with median income levels considerably below the national median for females compared to men with certain racial demographics.\n\nDespite considerable progress in pursuing gender and racial equality, some social scientists like Richard Schaeffer attribute these discrepancies in income partly to continued discrimination.\n\nAmong women, part of the wage gap is due to employment choices and preferences. Women are more likely to consider factors other than salary when looking for employment. On average, women are less willing to travel or relocate, take more hours off and work fewer hours, and choose college majors that lead to lower paying jobs. Women are also more likely to work for governments or non-profits which pay less than the private sector.\nAccording to this perspective certain ethnic minorities and women receive fewer promotions and opportunities for occupation and economic advancement than others. In the case of women this concept is referred to as the glass ceiling keeping women from climbing the occupational ladder.\n\nIn terms of race, Asian Americans are far more likely to be in the highest earning 5 percent than the rest of Americans. Studies have shown that African Americans are less likely to be hired than White Americans with the same qualifications. The continued prevalence of traditional gender roles and ethnic stereotypes may partially account for current levels of discrimination. In 2005, median income levels were highest among Asian and White males and lowest among females of all races, especially those identifying as African American or Hispanic. Despite closing gender and racial gaps, considerable discrepancies remain among racial and gender demographics, even at the same level of educational attainment. The economic success of Asian Americans may come from how they devote much more time to education than their peers. Asian Americans have significantly higher college graduation rates than their peers and are much more likely to enter high status and high income occupations.\nSince 1953 the income gap between male and female workers has decreased considerably but remains relatively large. Women currently earn significantly more Associate's, Bachelor's, and Master's degrees than men and almost as many Doctorates. Women are projected to have passed men in Doctorates earned in 2006–2007, and to earn nearly two thirds of Associate's, Bachelor's, and Master's degrees by 2016.\n\nThough it is important to note that income inequality between sexes remained stark at all levels of educational attainment. Between 1953 and 2005 median earnings as well as educational attainment increased, at a far greater pace for women than for men. Median income for female earners male earners increased 157.2% versus 36.2% for men, over four times as fast. Today the median male worker earns roughly 68.4% more than their female counterparts, compared to 176.3% in 1953. The median income of men in 2005 was 2% higher than in 1973 compared to a 74.6% increase for female earners.\n\nRacial differences remained stark as well, with the highest earning sex-gender demographic of workers aged 25 or older, Asian males (who were roughly tied with white males) earning slightly more than twice as much as the lowest-earning demographic, Hispanic females. As mentioned above, inequality between races and gender persisted at similar education levels. Racial differences were overall more pronounced among male than among female income earners. In 2009, Hispanics were more than twice as likely to be poor than non-Hispanic whites, research indicates. Lower average English ability, low levels of educational attainment, part-time employment, the youthfulness of Hispanic household heads, and the 2007–09 recession are important factors that have pushed up the Hispanic poverty rate relative to non-Hispanic whites. During the early 1920s, median earnings decreased for both sexes, not increasing substantially until the late 1990s. Since 1974 the median income for workers of both sexes increased by 31.7% from $18,474 to $24,325, reaching its high-point in 2000.\n\nIn the context of concern over income inequality, a number of economists, such as Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke, have talked about the importance of incentives: \"... without the possibility of unequal outcomes tied to differences in effort and skill, the economic incentive for productive behavior would be eliminated, and our market-based economy ... would function\nfar less effectively.\"\n\nSince abundant supply decreases market value, the possession of scarce skills considerably increases income.\nAmong the American lower class, the most common source of income was not occupation, but government welfare.\n\nWriting in the \"Harvard Business Review\" in September 2014, William Lazonick blamed record corporate stock buybacks for reduced investment in the economy and a corresponding impact on prosperity and income inequality. Between 2003 and 2012, the 449 companies in the S&P 500 used 54% of their earnings ($2.4 trillion) to buy back their own stock. An additional 37% was paid to stockholders as dividends. Together, these were 91% of profits. This left little for investment in productive capabilities or higher income for employees, shifting more income to capital rather than labor. He blamed executive compensation arrangements, which are heavily based on stock options, stock awards and bonuses for meeting earnings per share (EPS) targets (EPS increases as the number of outstanding shares decreases). Restrictions on buybacks were greatly eased in the early 1980s. He advocates changing these incentives to limit buybacks.\n\nU.S. companies are projected to increase buybacks to $701 billion in 2015 according to Goldman Sachs, an 18% increase over 2014. For scale, annual non-residential fixed investment (a proxy for business investment and a major GDP component) was estimated to be about $2.1 trillion for 2014.\n\nJournalist Timothy Noah wrote in 2012 that: \"My own preferred hypothesis is that stockholders appropriated what once belonged to middle-class wage earners.\" Since the vast majority of stocks are owned by higher income households, this contributes to income inequality. Journalist Harold Meyerson wrote in 2014 that: \"The purpose of the modern U.S. corporation is to reward large investors and top executives with income that once was spent on expansion, research, training and employees.\"\n\nU.S. income inequality is comparable to other developed nations pre-tax, but is among the worst after-tax and transfers. This indicates the U.S. tax policies redistribute income from higher income to lower income households relatively less than other developed countries. Journalist Timothy Noah summarized the results of several studies his 2012 book \"The Great Divergence\":\n\nA key factor in income inequality/equality is the effective rate at which income is taxed coupled with the progressivity of the tax system. A progressive tax is a tax in which the effective tax rate increases as the taxable base amount increases. Overall income tax rates in the U.S. are below the OECD average, and until 2005 have been declining.\n\nHow much tax policy change over the last thirty years has contributed to income inequality is disputed. In their comprehensive 2011 study of income inequality (\"Trends in the Distribution of Household Income Between 1979 and 2007\"), the CBO found that,\n\nThe top fifth of the population saw a 10-percentage-point increase in their share of after-tax income. Most of that growth went to the top 1 percent of the population. All other groups saw their shares decline by 2 to 3 percentage points. In 2007, federal taxes and transfers reduced the dispersion of income by 20 percent, but that equalizing effect was larger in 1979. The share of transfer payments to the lowest-income households declined. The overall average federal tax rate fell.\n\nHowever, a more recent CBO analysis indicates that with changes to 2013 tax law (e.g., the expiration of the 2001-2003 Bush tax cuts for top earners and the increased payroll taxes passed as part of the Affordable Care Act), the effective federal tax rates for the highest earning household will increase to levels not seen since 1979.\n\nAccording to journalist Timothy Noah, \"you can't really demonstrate that U.S. tax policy had a large impact on the three-decade income inequality trend one way or the other. The inequality trend for pre-tax income during this period was much more dramatic.\" Noah estimates tax changes account for 5% of the Great Divergence.\n\nBut many – such as economist Paul Krugman – emphasize the effect of changes in taxation – such as the 2001 and 2003 Bush administration tax cuts which cut taxes far more for high-income households than those below – on increased income inequality.\n\nPart of the growth of income inequality under Republican administrations (described by Larry Bartels) has been attributed to tax policy. A study by Thomas Piketty and Emmanuel Saez found that \"large reductions in tax progressivity since the 1960s took place primarily during two periods: the Reagan presidency in the 1980s and the Bush administration in the early 2000s.\"\n\nDuring Republican President Ronald Reagan's tenure in office the top marginal income tax rate was reduced from over 70 to 28 percent, high top marginal rates like 70% being the sort in place during much of the period of great income equality following the \"Great Compression\". The lowest marginal rate for the bottom fell from 14 to 11 percent. However the effective rate on top earners before Reagan's tax cut was much lower because of loopholes and charitable contributions.\n\nTaxes on income derived from capital (e.g., financial assets, property and businesses) primarily affect higher income groups, who own the vast majority of capital. For example, in 2010 approximately 81% of stocks were owned by the top 10% income group and 69% by the top 5%. Only about one-third of American households have stock holdings more than $7,000. Therefore, since higher-income taxpayers have a much higher share of their income represented by capital gains, lowering taxes on capital income and gains increases after-tax income inequality.\n\nCapital gains taxes were reduced around the time income inequality began to rise again around 1980 and several times thereafter. During 1978 under President Carter, the top capital gains tax rate was reduced from 49% to 28%. President Ronald Reagan's 1981 cut in the top rate on unearned income reduced the maximum capital gains rate to only 20% – its lowest level since the Hoover administration, as part of an overall economic growth strategy. The capital gains tax rate was also reduced by President Bill Clinton in 1997, from 28% to 20%. President George W. Bush reduced the tax rate on capital gains and qualifying dividends from 20% to 15%, less than half the 35% top rate on ordinary income.\n\nCBO reported in August 1990 that: \"Of the 8 studies reviewed, five, including the two CBO studies, found that cutting taxes on capital gains is not likely to increase savings, investment, or GNP much if at all.\" Some of the studies indicated the loss in revenue from lowering the tax rate may be offset by higher economic growth, others did not.\n\nJournalist Timothy Noah wrote in 2012 that: \"Every one of these changes elevated the financial interests of business owners and stockholders above the well-being, financial or otherwise, or ordinary citizens.\" So overall, while cutting capital gains taxes adversely affects income inequality, its economic benefits are debatable.\n\nRising inequality has also been attributed to President Bush's veto of tax harmonization, as this would have prohibited offshore tax havens.\n\nOne study found reductions of total effective tax rates were most significant for individuals with highest incomes. (see \"Federal Tax Rate by Income Group\" chart) For those with incomes in the top 0.01 percent, overall rates of Federal tax fell from 74.6% in 1970, to 34.7% in 2004 (the reversal of the trend in 2000 with a rise to 40.8% came after the 1993 Clinton deficit reduction tax bill), the next 0.09 percent falling from 59.1% to 34.1%, before leveling off with a relatively modest drop of 41.4 to 33.0% for the 99.5–99.9 percent group. Although the tax rate for low-income earners fell as well (though not as much), these tax reductions compare with virtually no change – 23.3% tax rate in 1970, 23.4% in 2004 – for the US population overall.\nThe study found the decline in progressivity since 1960 was due to the shift from allocation of corporate income taxes among labor and capital to the effects of the individual income tax. Paul Krugman also supports this claim saying, \"The overall tax rate on these high income families fell from 36.5% in 1980 to 26.7% in 1989.\"\n\nFrom the White House's own analysis, the federal tax burden for those making greater than $250,000 fell considerably during the late 1980s, 1990s and 2000s, from an effective tax of 35% in 1980, down to under 30% from the late 1980s to 2011.\n\nMany studies argue that tax changes of S corporations confound the statistics prior to 1990. However, even after these changes inflation-adjusted average after-tax income grew by 25% between 1996 and 2006 (the last year for which individual income tax data is publicly available). This average increase, however, obscures a great deal of variation. The poorest 20% of tax filers experienced a 6% reduction in income while the top 0.1 percent of tax filers saw their income almost double. Tax filers in the middle\nof the income distribution experienced about a 10% increase in income. Also during this period, the proportion of income from capital increased for the top 0.1 percent from 64% to 70%.\n\nTransfer payments refer to payments to persons such as social security, unemployment compensation, or welfare. CBO reported in November 2014 that: \"Government transfers reduce income inequality because the transfers received by lower-income households are larger relative to their market income than are the transfers received by higher-income households. Federal taxes also reduce income inequality, because the taxes paid by higher-income households are larger relative to their before-tax income than are the taxes paid by lower-income households. The equalizing effects of government transfers were significantly larger than the equalizing effects of federal taxes from 1979 to 2011.\n\nCBO also reported that less progressive tax and transfer policies have contributed to greater after-tax income inequality: \"As a result of the diminishing effect of transfers and federal taxes, the Gini index for income after transfers and federal taxes grew by more than the index for market income. Between 1979 and 2007, the Gini index for market income increased by 23 percent, the index for market income after transfers increased by 29 percent, and the index for income measured after transfers and federal taxes increased by 33 percent.\"\n\nTax expenditures (i.e., exclusions, deductions, preferential tax rates, and tax credits) cause revenues to be much lower than they would otherwise be for any given tax rate structure. The benefits from tax expenditures, such as income exclusions for healthcare insurance premiums paid for by employers and tax deductions for mortgage interest, are distributed unevenly across the income spectrum. They are often what the Congress offers to special interests in exchange for their support. According to a report from the CBO that analyzed the 2013 data:\nUnderstanding how each tax expenditure is distributed across the income spectrum can inform policy choices.\n\nPaul Krugman wrote in 2015 that: \"Economists struggling to make sense of economic polarization are, increasingly, talking not about technology but about power.\" This market power hypothesis basically asserts that market power has concentrated in monopolies and oligopolies that enable unusual amounts of income (\"rents\") to be transferred from the many consumers to relatively few owners. This hypothesis is consistent with higher corporate profits without a commensurate rise in investment, as firms facing less competition choose to pass a greater share of their profits to shareholders (such as through share buybacks and dividends) rather than re-invest in the business to ward off competitors.\nOne cause of this concentration of market power was the rightward shift in American politics toward more conservative policies since 1980, as politics plays a big role in how market power can be exercised. Policies that removed barriers to monopoly and oligopoly included anti-union laws, reduced anti-trust activity, deregulation (or failure to regulate) non-depository banking, contract laws that favored creditors over debtors, etc. Further, rising wealth concentration can be used to purchase political influence, creating a feedback loop.\n\nThe era of inequality growth has coincided with a dramatic decline in labor union membership from 20% of the labor force in 1983 to about 12% in 2007. Classical and neoclassical economists have traditionally thought that since the chief purpose of a union is to maximize the income of its members, a strong but not all-encompassing union movement would lead to increased income inequality. However, given the increase in income inequality of the past few decades, either the sign of the effect must be reversed, or the magnitude of the effect must be small and a much larger opposing force has overridden it.\n\nHowever, more recently, research has shown that unions' ability to reduce income disparities among members outweighed other factors and its net effect has been to reduce national income inequality. The decline of unions has hurt this leveling effect among men, and one economist (Berkeley economist David Card) estimating about 15–20% of the \"Great Divergence\" among that gender is the result of declining unionization.\n\nAccording to scholars, \"As organized labor's political power dissipates, economic interests in the labor market are dispersed and policy makers have fewer incentives to strengthen unions or otherwise equalize economic rewards.\" Unions were a balancing force, helping ensure wages kept up with productivity and that neither executives nor shareholders were unduly rewarded. Further, societal norms placed constraints on executive pay. This changed as union power declined (the share of unionized workers fell significantly during the Great Divergence, from over 30% to around 12%) and CEO pay skyrocketed (rising from around 40 times the average workers pay in the 1970s to over 350 times in the early 2000s). A 2015 report by the International Monetary Fund also attributes the decline of labor's share of GDP to deunionization, noting the trend \"necessarily increases the income share of corporate managers' pay and shareholder returns ... Moreover, weaker unions can reduce workers' influence on corporate decisions that benefit top earners, such as the size and structure of top executive compensation.\"\n\nStill other researchers think it is the labor movement's loss of national political power to promote equalizing \"government intervention and changes in private sector behavior\" has had the greatest impact on inequality in the US. Sociologist Jake Rosenfeld of the University of Washington argues that labor unions were the primary institution fighting inequality in the United States and helped grow a multiethnic middle class, and their decline has resulted in diminishing prospects for U.S. workers and their families. Timothy Noah estimates the \"decline\" of labor union power \"responsible for 20%\" of the Great Divergence. While the decline of union power in the US has been a factor in declining middle class incomes, they have retained their clout in Western Europe. In Denmark, influential trade unions such as Fagligt Fælles Forbund (3F) ensure that fast-food workers earn a living wage, the equivalent of $20 an hour, which is more than double the hourly rate for their counterparts in the United States.\n\nCritics of technological change as an explanation for the \"Great Divergence\" of income levels in America point to public policy and party politics, or \"stuff the government did, or didn't do\". They argue these have led to a trend of declining labor union membership rates and resulting diminishing political clout, decreased expenditure on social services, and less government redistribution. Moreover, the United States is the only advanced economy without a labor-based political party.\n\nAs of 2011, several state legislatures have launched initiatives aimed at lowering wages, labor standards, and workplace protections for both union and non-union workers.\n\nThe economist Joseph Stiglitz argues that \"Strong unions have helped to reduce inequality, whereas weaker unions have made it easier for CEOs, sometimes working with market forces that they have helped shape, to increase it.\" The long fall in unionization in the U.S. since WWII has seen a corresponding rise in the inequality of wealth and income.\n\nLiberal political scientist Larry Bartels has found a strong correlation between the party of the president and income inequality in America since 1948. (see below) Examining average annual pre-tax income growth from 1948 to 2005 (which encompassed most of the egalitarian Great Compression and the entire inegalitarian Great Divergence) Bartels shows that under Democratic presidents (from Harry Truman forward), the greatest income gains have been at the bottom of the income scale and tapered off as income rose. Under Republican presidents, in contrast, gains were much less but what growth there was concentrated towards the top, tapering off as you went down the income scale.\n\nSummarizing Bartels's findings, journalist Timothy Noah referred to the administrations of Democratic presidents as \"Democrat-world\", and GOP administrations as \"Republican-world\":\n\nThe pattern of distribution of growth appears to be the result of a whole host of policies,\n\nincluding not only the distribution of taxes and benefits but also the government's stance toward unions, whether the minimum wage rises, the extent to which the government frets about inflation versus too-high interest rates, etc., etc.\n\nNoah admits the evidence of this correlation is \"circumstantial rather than direct\", but so is \"the evidence that smoking is a leading cause of lung cancer.\"\n\nIn his 2017 book \"The Great Leveler\", historian Walter Scheidel point out that, starting in the 1970s, both parties shifted towards promoting free market capitalism, with Republicans moving further to the political right than Democrats to the political left. He notes that Democrats have been instrumental in the financial deregulation of the 1990s and have largely neglected social welfare issues while increasingly focusing on issues pertaining to identity politics. The Clinton Administration in particular continued promoting free market, or neoliberal, reforms which began under the Reagan Administration.\n\nAccording to political scientists Jacob Hacker and Paul Pierson writing in the book Winner-Take-All Politics, the important policy shifts were brought on not by the Republican Party but by the development of a modern, efficient political system, especially lobbying, by top earners – and particularly corporate executives and the financial services industry. The end of the 1970s saw a transformation of American politics away from a focus on the middle class, with new, much more effective, aggressive and well-financed lobbyists and pressure groups acting on behalf of upper income groups. Executives successfully eliminated any countervailing power or oversight of corporate managers (from private litigation, boards of directors and shareholders, the Securities and Exchange Commission or labor unions).\n\nThe financial industry's success came from successfully pushing for deregulation of financial markets, allowing much more lucrative but much more risky investments from which it privatized the gains while socializing the losses with government bailouts. (the two groups formed about 60% of the top 0.1 percent of earners.) All top earners were helped by deep cuts in estate and capital gains taxes, and tax rates on high levels of income.\n\nArguing against the proposition that the explosion in pay for corporate executives – which grew from 35X average worker pay in 1978 to over 250X average pay before the 2007 recession – is driven by an increased demand for scarce talent and set according to performance, Krugman points out that multiple factors outside of executives' control govern corporate profitability, particularly in short term when the head of a company like Enron may look like a great success. Further, corporate boards follow other companies in setting pay even if the directors themselves disagree with lavish pay \"partly to attract executives whom they consider adequate, partly because the financial market will be suspicious of a company whose CEO isn't lavishly paid.\" Finally \"corporate boards, largely selected by the CEO, hire compensation experts, almost always chosen by the CEO\" who naturally want to please their employers.\n\nLucian Arye Bebchuk, Jesse M. Fried, the authors of \"Pay Without Performance\", critique of executive pay, argue that executive capture of corporate governance is so complete that only public relations, i.e. public `outrage`, constrains their pay. This in turn has been reduced as traditional critics of excessive pay – such as politicians (where need for campaign contributions from the richest outweighs populist indignation), media (lauding business genius), unions (crushed) – are now silent.\n\nIn addition to politics, Krugman postulated change in norms of corporate culture have played a factor. In the 1950s and 60s, corporate executives had (or could develop) the ability to pay themselves very high compensation through control of corporate boards of directors, they restrained themselves. But by the end of the 1990s, the average real annual compensation of the top 100 C.E.O.'s skyrocketed from $1.3 million – 39 times the pay of an average worker – to $37.5 million, more than 1,000 times the pay of ordinary workers from 1982 to 2002. Journalist George Packer also sees the dramatic increase in inequality in America as a product of the change in attitude of the American elite, which (in his view) has been transitioning itself from pillars of society to a special interest group. Author Timothy Noah estimates that what he calls \"Wall Street and corporate boards' pampering\" of the highest earning 0.1% is \"responsible for 30%\" of the post-1978 increase in inequality.\n\nThe Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965 increased immigration to America, especially of non-Europeans. From 1970 to 2007, the foreign-born proportion of America's population grew from 5% to 11%, most of whom had lower education levels and incomes than native-born Americans. But the contribution of this increase in supply of low-skill labor seem to have been relatively modest. One estimate stated that immigration reduced the average annual income of native-born \"high-school dropouts\" (\"who roughly correspond to the poorest tenth of the workforce\") by 7.4% from 1980 to 2000. The decline in income of better educated workers was much less. Author Timothy Noah estimates that \"immigration\" is responsible for just 5% of the \"Great Divergence\" in income distribution, as does economist David Card.\n\nWhile immigration was found to have slightly depressed the wages of the least skilled and least educated American workers, it doesn't explain rising inequality among high school and college graduates. Scholars such as political scientists Jacob S. Hacker, Paul Pierson, Larry Bartels and Nathan Kelly, and economist Timothy Smeeding question the explanation of educational attainment and workplace skills point out that other countries with similar education levels and economies have not gone the way of the US, and that the concentration of income in the US hasn't followed a pattern of \"the 29% of Americans with college degrees pulling away\" from those who have less education.\n\nA September 2014 report by the Economic Policy Institute claims wage theft is also responsible for exacerbating income inequality: \"Survey evidence suggests that wage theft is widespread and costs workers billions of dollars a year, a transfer from low-income employees to business owners that worsens income inequality, hurts workers and their families, and damages the sense of fairness and justice that a democracy needs to survive.\"\n\nEdmund Phelps, published an analysis in 2010 theorizing that the cause of income inequality is not free market capitalism, but instead is the result of the rise of corporatism. Corporatism, in his view, is the antithesis of free market capitalism. It is characterized by semi-monopolistic organizations and banks, big employer confederations, often acting with complicit state institutions in ways that discourage (or block) the natural workings of a free economy. The primary effects of corporatism are the consolidation of economic power and wealth with end results being the attrition of entrepreneurial and free market dynamism.\n\nHis follow-up book, \"Mass Flourishing\", further defines corporatism by the following attributes: power-sharing between government and large corporations (exemplified in the U.S. by widening government power in areas such as financial services, healthcare, and energy through regulation), an expansion of corporate lobbying and campaign support in exchange for government reciprocity, escalation in the growth and influence of financial and banking sectors, increased consolidation of the corporate landscape through merger and acquisition (with ensuing increases in corporate executive compensation), increased potential for corporate/government corruption and malfeasance, and a lack of entrepreneurial and small business development leading to lethargic and stagnant economic conditions.\n\nToday, in the United States, virtually all of these economic conditions are being borne out. With regard to income inequality, the 2014 income analysis of University of California, Berkeley economist Emmanuel Saez confirms that relative growth of income and wealth is not occurring among small and mid-sized entrepreneurs and business owners (who generally populate the lower half of top one per-centers in income), but instead only among the top .1 percent of income distribution ... whom Paul Krugman describes as \"super-elites - corporate bigwigs and financial wheeler-dealers.\" ... who earn $2,000,000 or more every year.\n\nFor example, measured relative to GDP, total compensation and its component wages and salaries have been declining since 1970. This indicates a shift in income from labor (persons who derive income from hourly wages and salaries) to capital (persons who derive income via ownership of businesses, land and assets). Wages and salaries have fallen from approximately 51% GDP in 1970 to 43% GDP in 2013. Total compensation has fallen from approximately 58% GDP in 1970 to 53% GDP in 2013. To put this in perspective, five percent of U.S. GDP was approximately $850 billion in 2013. This represents an additional $7,000 in wages and salaries for each of the 120 million U.S. households. Larry Summers estimated in 2007 that the lower 80% of families were receiving $664 billion less income than they would be with a 1979 income distribution (a period of much greater equality), or approximately $7,000 per family.\n\nNot receiving this income may have led many families to increase their debt burden, a significant factor in the 2007-2009 subprime mortgage crisis, as highly leveraged homeowners suffered a much larger reduction in their net worth during the crisis. Further, since lower income families tend to spend relatively more of their income than higher income families, shifting more of the income to wealthier families may slow economic growth.\n\nIn another example, The Economist propounds that a swelling corporate financial and banking sector has caused Gini Coefficients to rise in the U.S. since 1980: \"Financial services' share of GDP in America doubled to 8% between 1980 and 2000; over the same period their profits rose from about 10% to 35% of total corporate profits, before collapsing in 2007–09. Bankers are being paid more, too. In America the compensation of workers in financial services was similar to average compensation until 1980. Now it is twice that average.\" The summary argument, considering these findings, is that if corporatism is the consolidation and sharing of economic and political power between large corporations and the state ... then a corresponding concentration of income and wealth (with resulting income inequality) is an expected by-product of such a consolidation.\n\nSome economists, sociologists and anthropologists argue that neoliberalism, or the resurgence of 19th century theories relating to \"laissez-faire\" economic liberalism in the late 1970s, has been the significant driver of inequality. More broadly, according to \"The Handbook of Neoliberalism\", the term has \"become a means of identifying a seemingly ubiquitous set of market-oriented policies as being largely responsible for a wide range of social, political, ecological and economic problems.\" Vicenç Navarro points to policies pertaining to the deregulation of labor markets, privatization of public institutions, union busting and reduction of public social expenditures as contributors to this widening disparity. The privatization of public functions, for example, grows income inequality by depressing wages and eliminating benefits for middle class workers while increasing income for those at the top. The deregulation of the labor market undermined unions by allowing the real value of the minimum wage to plummet, resulting in employment insecurity and widening wage and income inequality. David M. Kotz, professor of economics at the University of Massachusetts Amherst, contends that neoliberalism \"is based on the thorough domination of labor by capital.\" As such, the advent of the neoliberal era has seen a sharp increase in income inequality through the decline of unionization, stagnant wages for workers and the rise of CEO supersalaries. According to Emmanuel Saez:\n\nPennsylvania State University political science professor Pamela Blackmon attributes the trends of growing poverty and income inequality to the convergence of several neoliberal policies during Ronald Reagan's presidency, including the decreased funding of education, decreases in the top marginal tax rates, and shifts in transfer programs for those in poverty. Journalist Mark Bittman echoes this sentiment in a 2014 piece for \"The New York Times\":\n\nFred L. Block and Margaret Somers, in expanding on Karl Polanyi's critique of \"laissez-faire\" theories in \"The Great Transformation\", argue that Polanyi's analysis helps to explain why the revival of such ideas has contributed to the \"persistent unemployment, widening inequality, and the severe financial crises that have stressed Western economies over the past forty years.\" John Schmitt and Ben Zipperer of the Center for Economic and Policy Research also point to economic liberalism as one of the causes of income inequality. They note that European nations, in particular the social democracies of Northern Europe with extensive and well funded welfare states, have lower levels of income inequality and social exclusion than the United States.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31172872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31172872", "title": "Chromagraphy", "text": "Chromagraphy\n\nThis article is essentially a testimony on the work of Rouget de Lisle, visionary in its enlightened synthesis of the production of faithful works by efficient industrial means. The chromagraphy is \" the art to compose a drawing by means of lines and geometrical figures and to imitate it with colored materials \", according to Rouget de Lisle. This technique described in 1839 in France, in Paris, exposes a set of methods and of processes to produce tapestries and tissues. It includes the following techniques:\n\nChromagraphie: art to compose a model by means of lines and of geometrical figures, and to imitate it with colored materials. Rouget de Lisle described its process of composition and printing of works in color on paper, pattern and tissues as allowing to save 50% of time with regard to a manual realization.\n\nThe word chromagraphy comes from ancient Greek Khrôma which means \"color\" and Graphein who means \"writing\". This etymology is comparable to that of the scientific term \"chromatography\", appeared only in 1908 and which must not be confused with the chromagraphy of Rouget de Lisle.\n\nThe intention of Rouget de Lisle was \" to create a funny and lucrative activity to the ladies and to the artists colourers “by developing the work of the color” by the composition of tasteful models which make them love and look for \" and by propagating \" the feeling and the love of the beautiful \".\nHe began to gather and to classify the knowledge of the painters and the manufacturers of tapestries to realize their works of a \"pleasant, economic and complete\" way. These works ending in the chromagraphy benefited from the support of big names of the domain in the time, among which the administrator of the royal factory of Tapestries (Manufacture des Gobelins), Mr Lavocat, the director of the dyes of the royal factories, Mr Chevreul, the foreman of the royal factory of tapestries, Mr Deyrolles, with his son, painter of the models of carpet. Rouget de Lisle was itself a pupil of Mr Chevreul.\n\nThe general principle is to simplify the complete chain leading from a work to its reproduction on another support, as the carpet or the tissue. Rouget de Lisle attempts to refocus the work of the various workers on tasks with values added, as well for the persons as for their productions. He brings a particular attention to the quality throughout the process, in particular on the management of colors and their exact reproductions. He exposes \" the law of the simultaneous contrast \" and the \"chromatic Table\" allowing to end in quality printings. He so obtains 200 tints all in all. These 200 tones are codified by a language allowing their fast reproductions during the preparation of tapestries. The drawing of the work to be reproduced completed by the symbols of tints of every points constitutes the chromagraphy. This system reminds the modern description of a computer file of Bitmap type or GIF 8 bits. Rouget de Lisle also integrates signs for the various types of points to be realized.\n\nExample of Chromagraphy by Rouget de Lisle : (to be done)\n\nOne of the tables of signs symbolizing tints: (to be done)\n\nOne of the tables of tones according to the rules of the simultaneous constrate exposed(explained) by Rouget de Lisle in his work on the chromagraphie: (to be done)\n\nAll the extracts and examples of Rouget de Lisle result from a reproduction of its work published in 1839, on Chromagraphy (see the external references). The chromagraphy in its spirit and its principle gets closer to digital arts appeared since the end of 20th century computer paintings, prints, drawings, etc.). The chain of digital printing from a file of digital image recall the mechanical production line described by Rouget de Lisle, but in a computer and a modern industrial machine, such as a printer, a weaver, etc.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55942370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55942370", "title": "Duncan Forbes (historian)", "text": "Duncan Forbes (historian)\n\nDuncan Forbes (1922 – 3 December 1994) was a Scottish historian.\n\nForbes edited Adam Ferguson's \"An Essay on the History of Civil Society\" for the University of Edinburgh Press in 1966. In 1970 Pelican Books published the volumes of David Hume's \"History of Great Britain\" that covered the early Stuarts, to which Forbes wrote the introduction.\n\nIn his book \"Hume's Philosophical Politics\", Forbes argued that Hume's main purpose in writing \"The History of England\" was to give \"the Hanoverian regime a proper intellectual foundation\". Against the traditional portrayal of Hume as a Tory, Forbes labelled Hume's beliefs \"skeptical Whiggism\", that is, an acceptance of the Revolution Settlement coupled with a rejection of most other Whig orthodoxies such as the concept of the \"ancient constitution\".\n\nForbes' work on the Scottish Enlightenment led to one of his students, John Dunn, calling him \"a Highlander in exile\".\n\n"}
{"id": "18443769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18443769", "title": "Edward A. Shanken", "text": "Edward A. Shanken\n\nEdward A. Shanken (born 1964) is an American art historian, whose work focuses on the entwinement of art, science and technology, with a focus on experimental new media art and visual culture. His scholarship has appeared in numerous journals and anthologies and has been translated into six languages. Shanken is the author of \"Art and Electronic Media\" (Phaidon Press, 2009).\n\nEdward A. Shanken graduated from Haverford College (1986) and then obtained an MA (1999) and Ph.D. (2001) in Art History from Duke University after receiving an MBA from Yale University in 1990. He was the Executive Director of the Information Science Information Studies program (ISIS) at Duke University from 2001 to 2004. From 2004 to 2007 Shanken was Professor of Art History and Media Theory at Savannah College of Art and Design and Senior Researcher at the UCLA Art | Science Center and Visiting Scholar at the California NanoSystems Institute from 2007 to 2008. He joined the Department of Media Studies, University of Amsterdam in 2008, where he served as Universitair Docent, New Media and Digital Culture, 2008-2010 and as a Researcher, 2010-2012. In 2010, he was the inaugural Louis D. Beaumont Scholar at Washington University in St. Louis. Since 2007 he has served on the faculty of the Media Art Histories MA program at Donau University, Krems, Austria. In 2013 he joined the faculty at the Center for Digital Arts and Experimental Media (DXARTS) at University of Washington. In 2016, Shanken joined UC Santa Cruz to lead the innovative Digital Arts/New Media (DANM) program.\n\nShanken has been awarded fellowships from the National Endowment for the Arts and the American Council of Learned Societies. He was formerly chair of the Leonardo Education Forum and a member of the College Art Association Education Committee and has served as an advisor to the Media Art Histories conference, ISEA, the journal Technoetic Arts, and the Leonardo Pioneers and Pathbreakers project. He has conducted extensive research on the theorist and art critic Jack Burnham and into cybernetics as applied to systems art in the 1960s.\n\nRecent and forthcoming publications include essays on art and technology in the 1960s, interactivity and agency, the historiography of art and technology, parallels between conceptual art and art and technology, and the cultural implications of cybernetics, telematics, robotics, and biotechnology. Shanken’s current research examines art-science collaboration and the relationship between the discourses of mainstream contemporary art and new media art. Following the first concern, he chaired the panel discussion,\"Artists in Industry and the Academy: Interdisciplinary Research Collaborations\" at the 2004 Annual Conference of the College Art Association and served as guest editor of a special series of essays under the same title in the Leonardo Journal (38:4 and 38:5) in 2005. More recently he guest-edited a special series of essays, “The Reception and Rejection of Art and Technology: Exclusions and Revulsions,” which appeared in the journals \"a minima\" (Mar 2008) and \"Leonardo\" 42: 2 (Apr 2008). Following the second concern, he organized and chaired a panel discussion with Nicolas Bourriaud, Peter Weibel and Michael Joaquin Grey at Art Basel in June 2010 (see external link below) and organized and chaired a panel discussion at the College Art Association Annual Conference (CAA) in 2011, the papers of which were published in a special issue of ArtNodes (see links below). A further research area is the use of social media to expand and democratize the production and dissemination of art criticism. This is exemplified by the Art and Electronic Media Online Companion, a Web 2.0 site.\n\nShanken currently teaches at the Digital Arts/New Media (DANM) MFA program at UC Santa Cruz. He has previously taught media and art history at Rhode Island School of Design, Duke University, Savannah College of Art and Design, the University of Amsterdam, Donau University (in Austria), the Center for Digital Arts and Experimental Media (DXARTS) at the University of Washington.\n\nShanken is the editor of \"Telematic Embrace: Visionary Theories of Art, Technology and Consciousness\", the collected writings of Roy Ascott (University of California Press, 2003). His essay, \"Art in the Information Age: Technology and Conceptual Art\" received honorable mention in the Leonardo Award for Excellence in 2004. His book \"Inventing the Future: Art, Electricity, New Media\" was published in Spanish in 2013.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4633802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4633802", "title": "Face time", "text": "Face time\n\nFace time is an English idiom for direct personal interaction or contact between two or more people at the same time and physical location. Face time therefore occurs in \"real life\" and contrasts primarily with interaction or contact which occurs over distance (e.g., via telephone) and/or electronically (e.g., via email, instant messaging, e-commerce, social media, or computer simulations).\n\nThe term was originally a colloquialism but has entered the vernacular with the increasing number of people throughout the world who commonly and extensively rely on telecommunications and the Internet for personal and business communication.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3392103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3392103", "title": "General Archive of the Indies", "text": "General Archive of the Indies\n\nThe Archivo General de Indias (, \"General Archive of the Indies\"), housed in the ancient merchants' exchange of Seville, Spain, the \"Casa Lonja de Mercaderes\", is the repository of extremely valuable archival documents illustrating the history of the Spanish Empire in the Americas and the Philippines. The building itself, an unusually serene and Italianate example of Spanish Renaissance architecture, was designed by Juan de Herrera. This structure and its contents were registered in 1987 by UNESCO as a World Heritage Site together with the adjoining Seville Cathedral and the Alcázar of Seville.\n\nThe origin of the structure dates to 1572 when Philip II commissioned the building from Juan de Herrera, the architect of the Escorial to house the Consulado de mercaderes of Seville. Until then, the merchants of Seville had been in the habit of retreating to the cool recesses of the cathedral to transact business.\n\nThe building encloses a large central patio with ranges of two storeys, the windows set in slightly sunken panels between flat pilasters. Plain square tablets float in the space above each window. The building is surmounted by a balustrade, with rusticated obelisks standing at the corners. There is no sculptural decoration, only the discreetly contrasting tonalities of stone and stucco, and the light shadows cast by the slight relief of the pilasters against their piers, by the cornices, and by the cornice strips that cap each window.\n\nThe building was begun in 1584 by Juan de Mijares, using Herrera's plans, and was ready for occupation in 1598, according to an inscription on the north façade. Work on completing the structure proceeded through the 17th century, directed until 1629 by the archbishop Juan de Zumárraga and finished by Pedro Sanchez Falconete.\n\nResearchers who wish to examine the archive's sources use another building located across the street.\n\nIn 1785, by decree of Charles III the archives of the Council of the Indies were to be housed here, in order to bring together under a single roof all the documentation regarding the overseas empire, which until that time had been dispersed among various archives, as Simancas, Cádiz and Seville. Responsibility for the project was delegated to José de Gálvez y Gallardo, Secretary for the Indies, who depended on the historian Juan Bautista Muñoz for the plan's execution. Two basic motivations underlay the project; in addition to the lack of space in the \"Archivo General de Simancas\", the central archive of the Spanish Crown, there was also the expectation, in the spirit of the Enlightenment, that Spanish historians would take up the history of Spain's colonial empire. It was decided that, for the time being, documents evolved after 1760 would remain with their primary institutions.\n\nThe first cartloads of the documents arrived in October 1785. Some restructuring of the \"Casa Lonja\" to accommodate the materials was required, and a grand marble staircase was added in 1787, to designs of Lucas Cintara.\n\nThe archives are rich with autograph material from the first of the Conquistadores to the end of the 19th century. Here are Miguel de Cervantes' request for an official post, the Bull of Demarcation Inter caetera of Pope Alexander VI that divided the world between Spain and Portugal, the journal of Christopher Columbus, maps and plans of the colonial American cities, in addition to the ordinary archives that reveal the month-to-month workings of the whole vast colonial machinery, which have been mined by many historians in the last two centuries.\n\nToday the \"Archivo General de Indias\" houses some nine kilometers of shelving, in 43,000 volumes and some 80 million pages, which were produced by the colonial administration:\n\nThe structure underwent a thorough restoration in 2002–2004, without interrupting its function as a research library. , its 15 million pages are in the process of being digitized. The digitized sources are accessible online \n\n"}
{"id": "9524184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9524184", "title": "George Cram Cook", "text": "George Cram Cook\n\nGeorge Cram Cook or Jig Cook (October 7, 1873 – January 14, 1924) was an American theatre producer, director, playwright, novelist, poet, and university professor. Believing it was his personal mission to inspire others, Cook led the founding of the Provincetown Players on Cape Cod in 1915; their \"creative collective\" was considered the first modern American theatre company. During his seven-year tenure with the group, Cook oversaw the production of nearly one-hundred new plays by fifty American playwrights. He is particularly remembered for producing the first plays of Eugene O'Neill, along with those of Cook's wife Susan Glaspell, and several other noted writers. \n\nWhile teaching English literature at the University of Iowa from 1896 to 1899, Cook also taught what is thought to be the first creative writing course. Titled \"Verse-Making,\" the course was continued by Cook's colleagues at the university after he left. It was not until the 1950s that the Iowa Writers Workshop was founded.\n\nCram wrote: \"I was born and raised in Davenport, Iowa, where my family was one of the town's oldest and most wealthy. My father, a corporate lawyer, strongly encouraged my education from a young age, while my mother instilled in me a passion for culture and the arts. I completed my bachelor's degree at Harvard in 1893.\" He continued his studies in Europe at the University of Heidelberg in 1894 and at the University of Geneva the following year.\n\nUpon completing these studies, Cook returned to Iowa. He taught English literature and classics at the University of Iowa from 1895 until 1899. He also taught an early creative writing course, which he called \"Verse Making\". During the 1902 academic year, Cook was an English professor at Stanford University.\n\nIt was not until the 1950s that Paul Engle is credited with developing what is considered the world's first creative writing program, the Iowa Writer's Workshop, which has gained renown. \n\nIn Davenport, Cook associated with other young writers in what was informally referred to as the Davenport group. Among them was writer Susan Glaspell. He divorced his second wife, and he and Glaspell married in 1913. \n\nTo escape community gossip and seek larger world for their work, the couple moved to New York City, where they lived in Greenwich Village. There they had a daughter Nilla and son Harl together. In the summer of 1915 they went to Provincetown, Massachusetts for the season, as did many other writers and artists from the Village. Cook was among the founders of the Provincetown Players that year, an important step in the development of American theatre. The group would perform works by Cook and Glaspell, as well as the first plays of Eugene O'Neill and Edna St. Vincent Millay, among others. Cook would lead the Provincetown Players until 1919, at which time he took a sabbatical. Although he returned to the group in 1920, internal wrangling and his own frustration led to his effectively abandoning the cooperative.\n\nIn 1922, Cook and his family moved to Greece. They lived at Delphi, where they spent the summers camped in spruce huts high above the village on Mount Parnassus. After a short time, Cook began to wear \"fustanella\", the traditional Greek shepherd's attire. In 1924 he contracted a rare infectious disease from his pet dog and died. Cook's obituary appeared on the front page of the \"New York Times\". \n\nHe is buried at Delphi in a small cemetery within hundreds of feet of the ruins of the famous Temple of Apollo, home of the oracle. So beloved was Cook by the locals that the Greek government allowed a stone from the temple foundation to be used as his grave marker. Years later his daughter Nilla Cram Cook would be buried beside him.\n\nPlays\n\nNovels\n\nPoetry\n\nNon-fiction\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25630787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25630787", "title": "Ghulam Muhammad Ghobar", "text": "Ghulam Muhammad Ghobar\n\nMir Ghulam Muhammad Ghobar ( (1897 – February 5, 1978) was a politician, writer, prominent historian, journalist, and a poet from Afghanistan. He is the author of a number of books, including Afghanistan's history book called \"Afghanistan in the Course of History\". He has also written \"Tareekh-e Ahmad Shah Baba\" in 1943, which is about the 18th century Afghan Emir Ahmad Shah Durrani and his Durrani Empire.\n\nGhobar was born in or about 1897 in the city of Kabul, in Afghanistan to a Sayyid family. He spent some of his time in the cities of Kandahar and Farah, in the south of the country where he wrote several of his books. He was fluent in Persian and Pashto languages.\n\n"}
{"id": "235244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=235244", "title": "Granius Licinianus", "text": "Granius Licinianus\n\nGranius Licinianus (active in the 2nd century AD) was a Roman author of historical and encyclopedic works that survive only in fragments. He most likely lived at the time of Hadrian.\n\nGranius compiled a \"novel\" narrative epitome of Roman history, drawing mainly on Livy and Sallust, that ran to at least 36 books, \"keen on anecdotes and curious details.\" That he had his own views on historiography should not be doubted: in his opinion, Sallust ought not to be read as an historian at all, but as an orator. Granius covered the history of Rome from the early times at least to the death of Julius Caesar; the assumption of this as an end-point of his history has sometimes caused him to be identified with Granius Flaccus and his life to be dated to the 1st century BC. Though riddled with \"lacunae,\" Granius's Book 35 presents one of the most informative accounts of the siege of Rome during the civil war of 87 BC, and his history regularly provides illuminative details that complement more complete histories. Some fragments of the books relating to the years 163-78 BC are preserved in a manuscript which was discovered in 1853 and survives as a double \"palimpsest,\" that is, a 5th-century copy was overwritten in the 6th century with a Latin grammatical treatise and again in the 11th century with a Syriac translation of John Chrysostom's sermons. (Add. 17212)\n\nGranius also wrote \"Cenae Suae\" (\"My Dinner Parties\"), an encyclopedic work that displayed his antiquarian interests in the manner of Aulus Gellius and his \"Attic Nights\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54079728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54079728", "title": "Helen Szamuely", "text": "Helen Szamuely\n\nHelen Szamuely (1950–2017) was a historian and Eurosceptic who was a researcher for the Bruges Group and founder of the Anti-Federalist League. She was the daughter of Tibor Szamuely. After the Maastricht Treaty was signed in 1992, she organised monthly meetings at the Red Lion near Parliament to discuss Europe.\n"}
{"id": "405419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=405419", "title": "History of antisemitism", "text": "History of antisemitism\n\nThe history of antisemitism, defined as hostile actions or discrimination against Jews as a religious or ethnic group, goes back many centuries, with antisemitism being called \"the longest hatred\". Jerome Chanes identifies six stages in the historical development of antisemitism:\n\nChanes suggests that these six stages could be merged into three categories: \"ancient antisemitism, which was primarily ethnic in nature; Christian antisemitism, which was religious; and the racial antisemitism of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries\". In practice, it is difficult to differentiate antisemitism from the general ill-treatment of nations by other nations before the Roman period, but since the adoption of Christianity in Europe, antisemitism has undoubtedly been present. The Islamic world has also seen the Jews historically as outsiders. The coming of the scientific and industrial revolution in 19th-century Europe bred a new manifestation of antisemitism, based as much upon race as upon religion, culminating in the Holocaust during World War II. The formation of the state of Israel in 1948 has created new antisemitic tensions in the Middle East.\n\nLouis H. Feldman argues that \"we must take issue with the \"communis sensus\" that the pagan writers are predominantly anti-Semitic\". He asserts that \"one of the great puzzles that has confronted the students of anti-semitism is the alleged shift from pro-Jewish statements found in the first pagan writers who mention the Jews ... to the vicious anti-Jewish statements thereafter, beginning with Manetho about 270 BCE\". In view of Manetho's anti-Jewish writings, antisemitism may have originated in Egypt and been spread by \"the Greek retelling of Ancient Egyptian prejudices\". As examples of pagan writers who spoke positively of Jews, Feldman cites Aristotle, Theophrastus, Clearchus of Soli and Megasthenes. Feldman concedes that after Manetho \"the picture usually painted is one of universal and virulent anti-Judaism\".\n\nThe first clear examples of anti-Jewish sentiment can be traced back to Alexandria in the 3rd century BCE. Alexandria was home to the largest Jewish community in the world and the Septuagint, a Greek translation of the Hebrew Bible, was produced there. Manetho, an Egyptian priest and historian of that time, wrote scathingly of the Jews and his themes are repeated in the works of Chaeremon, Lysimachus, Poseidonius, Apollonius Molon, and in Apion and Tacitus. Hecateus of Abdera is quoted by Flavius Josephus as having written about the time of Alexander the Great that the Jews \"have often been treated injuriously by the kings and governors of Persia, yet can they not be dissuaded from acting what they think best; but that when they are stripped on this account, and have torments inflicted upon them, and they are brought to the most terrible kinds of death, they meet them after an extraordinary manner, beyond all other people, and will not renounce the religion of their forefathers\". One of the earliest anti-Jewish edicts, promulgated by Antiochus Epiphanes in about 170–167 BCE, sparked a revolt of the Maccabees in Judea.\n\nThe ancient Jewish philosopher Philo of Alexandria describes an attack on Jews in Alexandria in 38 CE in which thousands of Jews died. The violence in Alexandria may have been caused by the Jews being portrayed as misanthropes. Tcherikover argues that the reason for hatred of Jews in the Hellenistic period was their separateness in the Greek cities, the \"poleis\". Bohak has argued, however, that early animosity against the Jews cannot be regarded as being anti-Judaic or antisemitic unless it arose from attitudes that were held against the Jews alone, and that many Greeks showed animosity toward any group they regarded as barbarians.\n\nStatements exhibiting prejudice against Jews and their religion can be found in the works of many pagan Greek and Roman writers. Edward Flannery writes that it was the Jews' refusal to accept Greek religious and social standards that marked them out. Hecataeus of Abdera, a Greek historian of the early third century BCE, wrote that Moses \"in remembrance of the exile of his people, instituted for them a misanthropic and inhospitable way of life\". Manetho wrote that the Jews were expelled Egyptian lepers who had been taught by Moses \"not to adore the gods.\" The same themes appeared in the works of Chaeremon, Lysimachus, Poseidonius, Apollonius Molon, and in Apion and Tacitus. Agatharchides of Cnidus wrote about the \"ridiculous practices\" of the Jews and of the \"absurdity of their Law\", and how Ptolemy Lagus was able to invade Jerusalem in 320 BC because its inhabitants were observing the Sabbath. Edward Flannery describes antisemitism in ancient times as essentially \"cultural, taking the shape of a national xenophobia played out in political settings\".\n\nThere is a recorded instance of an Ancient Greek ruler, Antiochus Epiphanes, desecrating the Temple in Jerusalem and banning Jewish religious practices, such as circumcision, \"Shabbat\" observance and the study of Jewish religious books, during the period when Ancient Greece dominated the eastern Mediterranean. Statements exhibiting prejudice towards Jews and their religion can also be found in the works of a few pagan Greek and Roman writers, but the earliest occurrence of antisemitism has been the subject of debate among scholars, largely because different writers use different definitions of antisemitism. The terms \"religious antisemitism\" and \"anti-Judaism\" are sometimes used to refer to animosity towards Judaism as a religion rather than to Jews defined as an ethnic or racial group.\n\nRelations between the Jews in Judea and the occupying Roman Empire were antagonistic from the very start and resulted in several rebellions. It has been argued that European antisemitism has its roots in Roman policy.\n\nSeveral ancient historians report that in 19 CE the Roman emperor Tiberius expelled Jews from Rome. According to the Roman historian Suetonius, Tiberius tried to suppress all foreign religions. In the case of Jews, he sent young Jewish men, under the pretence of military service, to provinces noted for their unhealthy climate. He dismissed all other Jews from the city, under threat of life slavery for non-compliance. Josephus, in his \"Jewish Antiquities\", confirms that Tiberius ordered all Jews to be banished from Rome. Four thousand were sent to Sardinia but more, who were unwilling to become soldiers, were punished. Cassius Dio reports that Tiberius banished most of the Jews, who had been attempting to convert Romans to their religion. Philo of Alexandria reported that Sejanus, one of Tiberius's lieutenants, may have been a prime mover in the persecution of the Jews.\n\nThe Romans refused to permit Jews to rebuild the Temple of Jerusalem after its destruction by Titus in 70 CE, imposed a tax on Jews (Fiscus Judaicus) at the same time, ostensibly to finance the Temple of Jupiter in Rome, and renamed Judaea as Syria Palestina. The Jerusalem Talmud relates that, following Bar Kokhba's revolt (132–136 CE), the Romans destroyed very many Jews, \"killing until their horses were submerged in blood to their nostrils\". However, some historians argue that Rome brutally suppressed revolts in all its conquered territories and point out that Tiberius expelled all foreign religions from Rome, not just the Jews.\n\nSome accommodation, in fact, was later made with Judaism, and the Jews of the Diaspora had privileges that others did not. Unlike other subjects of the Roman Empire, they had the right to maintain their religion and were not expected to accommodate themselves to local customs. Even after the First Jewish–Roman War, the Roman authorities refused to rescind Jewish privileges in some cities. And although Hadrian outlawed circumcision as a mutilation normally visited on people unable to consent, he later exempted the Jews. According to the 18th-century historian Edward Gibbon, there was greater tolerance from about 160 CE. Between 355 and 363 CE, permission was granted by Julian the Apostate to rebuild the Second Temple of Jerusalem.\n\nAlthough the majority of the New Testament was written, ostensibly, by Jews who became followers of Jesus, there are a number of passages in the New Testament that some see as antisemitic, or that have been used for antisemitic purposes, including:\n\nAfter Jesus' death, the New Testament portrays the Jewish religious authorities in Jerusalem as hostile to Jesus' followers, and as occasionally using force against them. Drawing from the Jewish prophet Jeremiah (), the New Testament teaches that with the death of Jesus a New Covenant was established which rendered obsolete, and in many respects superseded, the first covenant established by Moses (; ). Observance of the earlier covenant traditionally characterizes Judaism. This New Testament teaching, and later variations to it, are part of what is called supersessionism. However, the early Jewish followers of Jesus continued to practice circumcision and observe dietary laws, which is why the failure to observe these laws by the first Gentile Christians became a matter of controversy and dispute some years after Jesus' death (; ff; ). Stephen is executed by stoning. Before his conversion, Saul puts followers of Jesus in prison. After his conversion, Saul (Paul) is whipped at various times by Jewish authorities and is accused by Jewish authorities before the Roman courts. However, opposition by gentiles is also described, and more generally there are widespread references in the New Testament to the suffering experienced by Jesus' followers at the hands of others, particularly the Romans.\n\nThe Quran, the holy book of Muslims, contains some verses that can be interpreted as expressing very negative views of some Jews. After the Islamic prophet Muhammad moved to Medina in 622 CE he made peace treaties with the Jewish and other tribes. However, the relationship between the followers of the new religion and the Jews of Medina later became bitter. At this point the Quran instructs Muhammad to change the direction of prayer from Jerusalem to Mecca, and from this point on, the tone of the verses of the Quran become increasingly hostile towards Jewry.\n\nIn 627, Jewish tribe Banu Qurayza of Medina violated a treaty with Muhammad by allying with the attacking tribes. Subsequently, the tribe was charged with treason and besieged by the Muslims commanded by Muhammad himself. The Banu Qurayza were forced to surrender and the men were beheaded, while all the women and children were taken captive and enslaved. Several scholars have challenged the veracity of this incident, arguing that it was exaggerated or invented. Later, several conflicts arose between Jews of Arabia and Muhammad and his followers, the most notable of which was in Khaybar, in which many Jews were killed and their properties seized and distributed amongst the Muslims.\n\nWhen Christianity became the state religion of Rome in the 4th century, Jews became the object of religious intolerance and political oppression. Christian literature began to display extreme hostility towards Jews, which occasionally resulted in attacks and the burning of synagogues. This hostility was reflected in the edicts both of church councils and state laws. In the early 4th century, intermarriage between unconverted Jews and Christians was prohibited under the provisions of the Synod of Elvira. The Council of Antioch (341) prohibited Christians from celebrating Passover with the Jews while the Council of Laodicea forbade Christians from keeping the Jewish Sabbath. The Roman Emperor Constantine I instituted several laws concerning the Jews: they were forbidden to own Christian slaves or to circumcise their slaves. The conversion of Christians to Judaism was outlawed. Religious services were regulated, congregations restricted, but Jews were allowed to enter Jerusalem on Tisha B'Av, the anniversary of the destruction of the Temple.\n\nDiscrimination became worse in the 5th century. The edicts of the Codex Theodosianus (438) barred Jews from the civil service, the army and the legal profession. The Jewish Patriarchate was abolished and the scope of Jewish courts restricted. Synagogues were confiscated and old synagogues could be repaired only if they were in danger of collapse. Synagogues fell into ruin or were converted to churches. Synagogues were destroyed in Tortona (350), Rome (388 and 500), Raqqa (388), Menorca (418), Daphne (near Antioch, 489 and 507), Genoa (500), Ravenna (495), Tours (585) and in Orléans (590). Other synagogues were confiscated: Urfa in 411, several in Judea between 419 and 422, Constantinople in 442 and 569, Antioch in 423, Vannes in 465, Diyarbakir in 500 Terracina in 590, Cagliari in 590 and Palermo in 590.\n\nDeicide is the killing of a god. In the context of Christianity, deicide refers to the responsibility for the death of Jesus. The accusation of Jews in deicide has been the most powerful warrant for antisemitism by Christians. The earliest recorded instance of an accusation of deicide against the Jewish people as a whole – that they were collectively responsible for the death of Jesus – occurs in a sermon of 167 CE attributed to Melito of Sardis entitled \"Peri Pascha\", \"On the Passover\". This text blames the Jews for allowing King Herod and Caiaphas to execute Jesus. Melito does not attribute particular blame to Pontius Pilate, mentioning only that Pilate washed his hands of guilt. The sermon is written in Greek, but may have been an appeal to Rome to spare Christians at a time when Christians were widely persecuted. The Latin word \"deicida\" (slayer of god), from which the word \"deicide\" is derived, was used in the 4th century by Peter Chrystologus in his sermon number 172. Though not part of Roman Catholic dogma, many Christians, including members of the clergy, once held Jews to be collectively responsible for killing Jesus. According to this interpretation, both the Jews present at Jesus' death and the Jewish people collectively and for all time had committed the sin of deicide, or God-killing.\n\nThere was continuing hostility to Judaism from the late Roman period into medieval times. During the Middle Ages in Europe there was a full-scale persecution of Jews in many places, with blood libels, expulsions, forced conversions and killings. In the 12th century, there were Christians who believed that some, or possibly all, of the Jews possessed magical powers and had gained these powers from making a pact with the devil. Judensau images began to appear in Germany.\n\nThe persecution of the Jews in Europe reached a climax during the Crusades. Anti-Jewish rhetoric such as the \"Goad of Love\" began to appear and affect public consciousness. At the time of the First Crusade, in 1096, a German Crusade destroyed flourishing Jewish communities on the Rhine and the Danube. In the Second Crusade in 1147, the Jews in France were the victims of frequent killings and atrocities. In the first large-scale persecution in Germany after the First Crusade, thousands of Jews were killed by Rintfleisch knights in 1298. The Jews were also subjected to attacks during the Shepherds' Crusades of 1251 and 1320. Following these crusades, Jews were subject to expulsions, including, in 1290, the banishing of all English Jews. In 1396, 100,000 Jews were expelled from France and in 1421, thousands were expelled from Austria. Many of those expelled fled to Poland.\n\nAs the Black Death plague swept across Europe in the mid-14th century, annihilating more than half of the population, Jews often became the scapegoats. Rumors spread that they had caused this epidemic by deliberately poisoning wells. Hundreds of Jewish communities were destroyed by the ensuing hatred and violence. Pope Clement VI tried to protect Jews by a papal bull dated July 6, 1348, and by an additional bull soon afterwards, but several months later, 900 Jews were burnt alive in Strasbourg, where the plague had not yet affected the city.\n\nFrom the 9th century onwards, the medieval Islamic world imposed \"dhimmi\" status on both Christian and Jewish minorities. Nevertheless, Jews were allowed more freedom to practise their religion in the Muslim world than they were in Christian Europe.\n\nHowever, the entrance of the Almoravides from North Africa in the 11th century saw harsh measures taken against both Christians and Jews. As part of this repression there were pogroms against Jews in Cordova in 1011 and in Granada in 1066. The Almohads, who by 1147 had taken control of the Almoravids' Maghribi and Andalusian territories, took a less tolerant view still and treated the \"dhimmis\" harshly. Faced with the choice of either death or conversion, many Jews and Christians took a third option if they could, and fled. Some, such as the family of Maimonides, went east to more tolerant Muslim lands, while others went northward to settle in the growing Christian kingdoms. At certain times in the Middle Ages, in Egypt, Syria, Iraq and Yemen, decrees ordering the destruction of synagogues were enacted. Jews were forced to convert to Islam or face death in parts of Yemen, Morocco and Baghdad. Jewish communities in Spain thrived under tolerant Muslim rule during the Spanish Golden Age and Cordova became a centre of Jewish culture.\n\nRestrictions upon Jewish occupations were imposed by Christian authorities. Local rulers and church officials closed many professions to Jews, pushing them into marginal roles considered socially inferior, such as tax and rent collecting and moneylending, occupations only tolerated as a \"necessary evil\". Catholic doctrine at the time held that lending money for interest was a sin, and it was an occupation forbidden to Christians. Not being subject to this restriction, insofar as loans to non-Jews were concerned, Jews made this business their own, despite possible criticism of usury in the Torah and later sections of the Hebrew Bible. Unfortunately, this led to many negative stereotypes of Jews as insolent, greedy usurers and the understandable tensions between creditors (typically Jews) and debtors (typically Christians) added to social, political, religious, and economic strains. Peasants who were forced to pay their taxes to Jews could see them as personally taking their money while unaware of those on whose behalf these Jews worked.\n\nJews were subject to a wide range of legal disabilities and restrictions throughout the Middle Ages, some of which lasted until the end of the 19th century. Even moneylending and peddling were at times forbidden to them. The number of Jews permitted to reside in different places was limited; they were concentrated in ghettos and were not allowed to own land; they were subject to discriminatory taxes on entering cities or districts other than their own and were forced to swear special Jewish Oaths, and they suffered a variety of other measures. The Fourth Lateran Council in 1215 decreed that Jews and Muslims must wear distinguishing clothing. The most common such clothing was the Jewish hat, which was already worn by many Jews as a self-identifying mark, but was now often made compulsory.\nThe Jewish badge was introduced in some places; it could be a coloured piece of cloth in the shape of a circle, strip, or the tablets of the law (in England), and was sewn onto the clothes. Elsewhere special colours of robe were specified. Implementation was in the hands of local rulers but by the following century laws had been enacted covering most of Europe. In many localities, members of Medieval society wore badges to distinguish their social status. Some badges (such as those worn by guild members) were prestigious, while others were worn by ostracised outcasts such as lepers, reformed heretics and prostitutes. As with all sumptuary laws, the degree to which these laws were followed and enforced varied greatly. Sometimes, Jews sought to evade the badges by paying what amounted to bribes in the form of temporary \"exemptions\" to kings, which were revoked and re-paid for whenever the king needed to raise funds. By the end of the Middle Ages, the hat seems to have become rare, but the badge lasted longer and remained in some places until the 18th century.\n\nThe Crusades were a series of military campaigns sanctioned by the Papacy in Rome, which took place from the end of the 11th century until the 13th century. They began as endeavors to recapture Jerusalem from the Muslims but developed into territorial wars.\n\nThe People's Crusade that accompanied the First Crusade attacked Jewish communities in Germany, France, and England, and killed many Jews. Entire communities, like those of Treves, Speyer, Worms, Mainz, and Cologne, were murdered by armed mobs. About 12,000 Jews are said to have perished in the Rhineland cities alone between May and July 1096. Before the Crusades, Jews had practically a monopoly on the trade in Eastern products, but the closer connection between Europe and the East brought about by the Crusades raised up a class of Christian merchant traders, and from this time onwards, restrictions on the sale of goods by Jews became frequent. The religious zeal fomented by the Crusades at times burned as fiercely against Jews as against Muslims, although attempts were made by bishops during the first Crusade and by the papacy during the Second Crusade to stop Jews from being attacked. Both economically and socially, the Crusades were disastrous for European Jews. They prepared the way for the anti-Jewish legislation of Pope Innocent III.\n\nThe Jewish defenders of Jerusalem retreated to their synagogue to \"prepare for death\" once the Crusaders had breached the outer walls of the city during the siege of 1099. The chronicle of Ibn al-Qalanisi states that the building was set on fire whilst the Jews were still inside. The Crusaders were supposedly reported as hoisting up their shields and singing \"Christ We Adore Thee!\" while they encircled the burning building.\" Following the siege, Jews captured from the Dome of the Rock, along with native Christians, were made to clean the city of the slain. Numerous Jews and their holy books (including the Aleppo Codex) were held ransom by Raymond of Toulouse. The Karaite Jewish community of Ashkelon (Ascalon) reached out to their coreligionists in Alexandria to first pay for the holy books and then rescued pockets of Jews over several months. All that could be ransomed were liberated by the summer of 1100. The few who could not be rescued were either converted to Christianity or murdered.\n\nIn the County of Toulouse, in southern France, toleration and favour shown to Jews was one of the main complaints of the Roman Church against the Counts of Toulouse at the beginning of the 13th century. Organised and official persecution of the Jews became a normal feature of life in southern France only after the Albigensian Crusade, because it was only then that the Church became powerful enough to insist that measures of discrimination be applied. In 1209, stripped to the waist and barefoot, Raymond VI of Toulouse was obliged to swear that he would no longer allow Jews to hold public office. In 1229 his son Raymond VII underwent a similar ceremony.\n\nOn many occasions, Jews were accused of drinking the blood of Christian children in mockery of the Christian Eucharist. According to the authors of these so-called blood libels, the 'procedure' for the alleged sacrifice was something like this: a child who had not yet reached puberty was kidnapped and taken to a hidden place. The child would be tortured by Jews, and a crowd would gather at the place of execution (in some accounts the synagogue itself) and engage in a mock tribunal to try the child. The child would be presented to the tribunal naked and tied and eventually be condemned to death. In the end, the child would be crowned with thorns and tied or nailed to a wooden cross. The cross would be raised, and the blood dripping from the child's wounds would be caught in bowls or glasses and then drunk. Finally, the child would be killed with a thrust through the heart from a spear, sword, or dagger. Its dead body would be removed from the cross and concealed or disposed of, but in some instances rituals of black magic would be performed on it. This method, with some variations, can be found in all the alleged Christian descriptions of ritual murder by Jews.\n\nThe story of William of Norwich (d. 1144) is often cited as the first known accusation of ritual murder against Jews. The Jews of Norwich, England were accused of murder after a Christian boy, William, was found dead. It was claimed that the Jews had tortured and crucified him. The legend of William of Norwich became a cult, and the child acquired the status of a holy martyr. Little Saint Hugh of Lincoln (d. 1255), in the 13th century, reputedly had his belly cut open and his entrails removed for some occult purpose, such as a divination ritual, after being taken from a cross. Simon of Trent (d. 1475), in the fifteenth, was held over a large bowl so that all his blood could be collected, it was alleged.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, such blood libels were directed against Jews in many parts of Europe. The believers of these accusations reasoned that the Jews, having crucified Jesus, continued to thirst for pure and innocent blood, at the expense of innocent Christian children. Jews were also sometimes falsely accused of desecrating consecrated hosts in a reenactment of the Crucifixion; this crime was known as host desecration and carried the death penalty.\n\nThe practice of expelling Jews, the confiscation of their property and further ransom for their return was utilized to enrich the French crown during the 13th and 14th centuries. The most notable such expulsions were from Paris by Philip Augustus in 1182, from the whole of France by Louis IX in 1254, by Charles IV in 1306, by Charles V in 1322 and by Charles VI in 1394.\n\nTo finance his war against Wales in 1276, Edward I of England taxed Jewish moneylenders. When the moneylenders could no longer pay the tax, they were accused of disloyalty. Already restricted to a limited number of occupations, Edward abolished their \"privilege\" to lend money, restricted their movements and activities and forced Jews to wear a yellow patch. The heads of Jewish households were then arrested with over 300 being taken to the Tower of London and executed. Others were killed in their homes. All Jews were banished from the country in 1290, where it was possible that hundreds were killed or drowned while trying to leave the country. All the money and property of these dispossessed Jews was confiscated. No Jews were known to be in England thereafter until 1655, when Oliver Cromwell reversed the policy.\n\nIn Germany, part of the Holy Roman Empire, persecutions and formal expulsions of the Jews were liable to occur at intervals, although it should be said that this was also the case for other minority communities, whether religious or ethnic. There were particular outbursts of riotous persecution in the Rhineland massacres of 1096 accompanying the lead-up to the First Crusade, many involving the crusaders as they travelled to the East. There were many local expulsions from cities by local rulers and city councils. The Holy Roman Emperor generally tried to restrain persecution, if only for economic reasons, but he was often unable to exert much influence. As late as 1519, the Imperial city of Regensburg took advantage of the recent death of Emperor Maximilian I to expel its 500 Jews. At this period the rulers of the eastern edges of Europe, in Poland, Lithuania and Hungary, were often receptive to Jewish settlement, and many Jews moved to these regions.\n\nHundreds of Jewish communities were destroyed by violence during the ravages of the Black Death, particularly in the Iberian peninsula and in the Germanic Empire. In Provence, 40 Jews were burnt in Toulon as quickly after the outbreak as April 1348. \"Never mind that Jews were not immune from the ravages of the plague; they were tortured until they \"confessed\" to crimes that they could not possibly have committed. In one such case, a man named Agimet was ... coerced to say that Rabbi Peyret of Chambéry (near Geneva) had ordered him to poison the wells in Venice, Toulouse, and elsewhere. In the aftermath of Agimet's \"confession\", the Jews of Strasbourg were burned alive on February 14, 1349.\"\n\nIn the Catholic kingdoms of late medieval and early modern Spain, oppressive policies and attitudes led many Jews to embrace Christianity. Such Jews were known as conversos or Marranos. Suspicions that they might still secretly be adherents of Judaism led Ferdinand II of Aragon and Isabella I of Castile to institute the Spanish Inquisition. The Inquisition used torture to elicit confessions and delivered judgment at public ceremonials known as \"autos de fe\" before they gave their victims over to the secular authorities for punishment. Under this dispensation, some 30,000 were condemned to death and executed by being burnt alive. In 1492, Ferdinand II of Aragon and Isabella I of Castile issued an edict of expulsion of Jews from Spain, giving Jews four months to either convert to Christianity or leave the country. Some 165,000 emigrated and some 50,000 converted to Christianity.\n\nPortugal followed suit in December 1496. However, those expelled could only leave the country in ships specified by the King. When those who chose to leave the country arrived at the port in Lisbon, they were met by clerics and soldiers who used force, coercion and promises to baptize them and prevent them from leaving the country. This episode technically ended the presence of Jews in Portugal. Afterwards, all converted Jews and their descendants would be referred to as New Christians or \"marrano\". They were given a grace period of thirty years during which no inquiry into their faith would be allowed. This period was later extended until 1534. However, a popular riot in 1506 resulted in the deaths of up to four or five thousand Jews, and the execution of the leaders of the riot by King Manuel. Those labeled as New Christians were under the surveillance of the Portuguese Inquisition from 1536 until 1821.\n\nJewish refugees from Spain and Portugal, known as Sephardi Jews from the Hebrew word for Spain, fled to North Africa, Turkey and Palestine within the Ottoman Empire, and to Holland, France and Italy. Within the Ottoman Empire, Jews could openly practise their religion. Amsterdam in Holland also became a focus for settlement by the persecuted Jews from many lands in succeeding centuries.\n\nMartin Luther, an Augustinian friar and an ecclesiastical reformer whose teachings inspired the Reformation, wrote antagonistically about Jews in his pamphlet \"On the Jews and Their Lies\", written in 1543. He portrays the Jews in extremely harsh terms, excoriates them and provides detailed recommendations for a pogrom against them, calling for their permanent oppression and expulsion. At one point he writes: \"...we are at fault in not slaying them...\" a passage that \"may be termed the first work of modern antisemitism, and a giant step forward on the road to the Holocaust.\"\n\nLuther's harsh comments about the Jews are seen by many as a continuation of medieval Christian antisemitism. Muslow and Popkin assert that, \"the antisemitism of the early modern period was even worse than that of the Middle Ages; and nowhere was this more obvious than in those areas which roughly encompass modern-day Germany, especially among Lutherans.\" In his final sermon shortly before his death, however, Luther preached: \"We want to treat them with Christian love and to pray for them, so that they might become converted and would receive the Lord.\"\n\nSimon of Trent was a boy from the city of Trento, Italy, who was found dead at the age of two in 1475, having allegedly been kidnapped, mutilated, and drained of blood. His disappearance was blamed on the leaders of the city's Jewish community, based on confessions extracted under torture, in a case that fueled the rampant antisemitism of the time. Simon was regarded as a saint, and was canonized by Pope Sixtus V in 1588. \n\nIn the mid-17th century, Peter Stuyvesant, the last Dutch Director-General of the colony of New Amsterdam, later New York City, sought to bolster the position of the Dutch Reformed Church by trying to stem the religious influence of Jews, Lutherans, Catholics and Quakers. He stated that Jews were \"deceitful\", \"very repugnant\", and \"hateful enemies and blasphemers of the name of Christ\". However, religious plurality was already a cultural tradition and a legal obligation in New Amsterdam and in the Netherlands, and his superiors at the Dutch West India Company in Amsterdam overruled him.\n\nDuring the mid-to-late-17th century the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth was devastated by several conflicts, in which the Commonwealth lost over a third of its population (over 3 million people). The decrease of the Jewish population during that period is estimated at 100,000 to 200,000, including emigration, deaths from diseases and captivity in the Ottoman Empire. These conflicts began in 1648 when Bohdan Khmelnytsky instigated the Khmelnytsky Uprising against the Polish aristocracy and the Jews who administered their estates. Khmelnytsky's Cossacks massacred tens of thousands of Jews in the eastern and southern areas that he controlled (now Ukraine). This persecution led many Jews to pin their hopes on a man called Shabbatai Zevi who emerged in the Ottoman Empire at this time and proclaimed himself Messiah in 1665. However his later conversion to Islam dashed these hopes and led many Jews to discredit the traditional belief in the coming of the Messiah as the hope of salvation.\n\nIn the Zaydi imamate of Yemen, Jews were also singled out for discrimination in the 17th century, which culminated in the general expulsion of all Jews from places in Yemen to the arid coastal plain of Tihamah and which became known as the Mawza Exile.\n\nIn many European countries the 18th century \"Age of Enlightenment\" saw the dismantling of archaic corporate, hierarchical forms of society in favour of individual equality of citizens before the law. How this new state of affairs would affect previously autonomous, though subordinated, Jewish communities became known as the Jewish question. In many countries, enhanced civil rights were gradually extended to the Jews, though often only in a partial form and on condition that the Jews abandon many aspects of their previous identity in favour of integration and assimilation with the dominant society.\n\nAccording to Arnold Ages, Voltaire's \"Lettres philosophiques, Dictionnaire philosophique, and Candide, to name but a few of his better known works, are saturated with comments on Jews and Judaism and the vast majority are negative\". Paul H. Meyer adds: \"There is no question but that Voltaire, particularly in his latter years, nursed a violent hatred of the Jews and it is equally certain that his animosity...did have a considerable impact on public opinion in France.\" Thirty of the 118 articles in Voltaire's \"Dictionnaire philosophique\" concerned Jews and described them in consistently negative ways.\n\nIn 1744, Frederick II of Prussia limited the number of Jews allowed to live in Breslau to only ten so-called \"protected\" Jewish families and encouraged a similar practice in other Prussian cities. In 1750 he issued the \"Revidiertes General Privilegium und Reglement vor die Judenschaft\": forcing these \"protected\" Jews to \"either abstain from marriage or leave Berlin.\" In the same year, Archduchess of Austria Maria Theresa ordered Jews out of Bohemia but soon reversed her position, on condition that they pay for their readmission every ten years. This was known as \"malke-geld\" (queen's money). In 1752 she introduced a law limiting each Jewish family to one son. In 1782, Joseph II abolished most of these practices in his \"Toleranzpatent\", on the condition that Yiddish and Hebrew were eliminated from public records and that judicial autonomy was annulled.\n\nIn accordance with the anti-Jewish precepts of the Russian Orthodox Church, Russia's discriminatory policies towards Jews intensified when the partition of Poland in the 18th century resulted, for the first time in Russian history, in the possession of land with a large population of Jews. This land was designated as the Pale of Settlement from which Jews were forbidden to migrate into the interior of Russia. In 1772, the empress of Russia Catherine II forced the Jews of the Pale of Settlement to stay in their shtetls and forbade them from returning to the towns that they occupied before the partition of Poland.\n\nFollowing legislation supporting the equality of French Jews with other citizens during the French Revolution, similar laws promoting Jewish emancipation were enacted in the early 19th century in those parts of Europe over which France had influence. The old laws restricting them to ghettos, as well as the many laws that limited their property rights, rights of worship and occupation, were rescinded.\n\nDespite this, traditional discrimination and hostility to Jews on religious grounds persisted and was supplemented by racial antisemitism, encouraged by the work of racial theorists such as the royalist Joseph Arthur de Gobineau and particularly his \"Essay on the Inequality of the Human Race\" of 1853–55. Nationalist agendas based on ethnicity, known as ethnonationalism, usually excluded the Jews from the national community as an alien race. Allied to this were theories of Social Darwinism, which stressed a putative conflict between higher and lower races of human beings. Such theories, usually posited by white Europeans, advocated the superiority of white Aryans to Semitic Jews.\n\nThe counter-revolutionary Catholic royalist Louis de Bonald stands out among the earliest figures to explicitly call for the reversal of Jewish emancipation in the wake of the French Revolution. Bonald's attacks on the Jews are likely to have influenced Napoleon's decision to limit the civil rights of Alsatian Jews. Bonald's article \"Sur les juifs\" (1806) was one of the most venomous screeds of its era and furnished a paradigm which combined anti-liberalism, traditional Christian antisemitism, and the identification of Jews with bankers and finance capital, which would in turn influence many subsequent right-wing reactionaries such as Roger Gougenot des Mousseaux, Charles Maurras, and Édouard Drumont, nationalists such as Maurice Barrès and Paolo Orano, and antisemitic socialists such as Alphonse Toussenel. Bonald furthermore declared that the Jews were an \"alien\" people, a \"state within a state\", and should be forced to wear a distinctive mark to more easily identify and discriminate against them.\n\nIn the 1840s, the popular counter-revolutionary Catholic journalist Louis Veuillot propagated Bonald's arguments against the Jewish \"financial aristocracy\" along with vicious attacks against the Talmud and the Jews as a \"deicidal people\" driven by hatred to \"enslave\" Christians. Gougenot des Mousseaux's \"Le Juif, le judaïsme et la judaïsation des peuples chrétiens\" (1869) has been called a \"Bible of modern antisemitism\" and was translated into German by Nazi ideologue Alfred Rosenberg. \n\nIn Italy, the Jesuit priest Antonio Bresciani's highly popular novel 1850 novel \"L'Ebreo di Verona\" (The Jew of Verona) shaped religious antisemitism for decades, as did his work for \"La Civiltà Cattolica\", which he helped launch.\n\nCivil rights granted to Jews in Germany, following the occupation of that country by the French under Napoleon, were rescinded after his defeat. Pleas to retain them by diplomats at the Congress of Vienna peace conference (1814–5) were unsuccessful. In 1819, German Jews were attacked in the Hep-Hep riots. Full Jewish emancipation was not granted in Germany until 1871, when the country was united under the Hohenzollern dynasty.\n\nIn 1850, the German composer Richard Wagner published \"Das Judenthum in der Musik\" (\"Jewishness in Music\") under a pseudonym in the \"Neue Zeitschrift für Musik\". The essay began as an attack on Jewish composers, particularly Wagner's contemporaries (and rivals) Felix Mendelssohn and Giacomo Meyerbeer, but expanded to accuse Jewish influences more widely of being a harmful and alien element in German culture.\n\nThe term \"antisemitism\" was coined by the German agitator and publicist, Wilhelm Marr in 1879. In that year, Marr founded the Antisemites League and published a book called \"Victory of Jewry over Germandom\". The late 1870s saw the growth of antisemitic political parties in Germany. These included the Christian Social Party, founded in 1878 by Adolf Stoecker, the Lutheran chaplain to Kaiser Wilhelm I, as well as the German Social Antisemitic Party and the Antisemitic People's Party. However, they did not enjoy mass electoral support and at their peak in 1907, had only 16 deputies out of a total of 397 in the parliament.\n\nThe defeat of France in the Franco-Prussian War (1870–71) was blamed by some on the Jews. Jews were accused of weakening the national spirit through association with republicanism, capitalism and anti-clericalism, particularly by authoritarian, right wing, clerical and royalist groups. These accusations were spread in antisemitic journals such as \"La Libre Parole\", founded by Edouard Drumont and \"La Croix\", the organ of the Catholic order of the Assumptionists. Between 1882 and 1886 alone, French priests published twenty antisemitic books blaming France's ills on the Jews and urging the government to consign them back to the ghettos, expel them, or hang them from the gallows. \n\nFinancial scandals such as the collapse of the Union Generale Bank and the collapse of the French Panama Canal operation were also blamed on the Jews. The Dreyfus affair saw a Jewish military officer named Captain Alfred Dreyfus falsely accused of treason in 1895 by his army superiors and sent to Devil's Island after being convicted. Dreyfus was acquitted in 1906, but the case polarised French opinion between antisemitic authoritarian nationalists and philosemitic anti-clerical republicans, with consequences which were to resonate into the 20th century.\n\nBetween 1881 and 1920, approximately three million Ashkenazi Jews from Eastern Europe migrated to America, many of them fleeing pogroms and the difficult economic conditions which were widespread in much of Eastern Europe during this time. Pogroms in Eastern Europe, particularly Russia, prompted waves of Jewish immigrants after 1881. Jews, along with many Eastern and Southern European immigrants, came to work the country's growing mines and factories. Many Americans distrusted these Jewish immigrants. The earlier wave of Jewish immigration from Germany, the latter (post 1880) came from \"the Pale\" – the region of Eastern Poland, Russia and the Ukraine where Jews had suffered under the Czars. Along with Italians, Irish and other Eastern and Southern Europeans, Jews faced discrimination in the United States in employment, education and social advancement. American groups like the Immigration Restriction League, criticized these new arrivals along with immigrants from Asia and southern and eastern Europe, as culturally, intellectually, morally, and biologically inferior. Despite these attacks, very few Eastern European Jews returned to Europe for whatever privations they faced, their situation in the U.S. was still improved.\n\nBeginning in the early 1880s, declining farm prices also prompted elements of the Populist movement to blame the perceived evils of capitalism and industrialism on Jews because of their alleged racial/religious inclination for financial exploitation and, more specifically, because of the alleged financial manipulations of Jewish financiers such as the Rothschilds. Although Jews played only a minor role in the nation's commercial banking system, the prominence of Jewish investment bankers such as the Rothschilds in Europe, and Jacob Schiff, of Kuhn, Loeb & Co. in New York City, made the claims of antisemites believable to some. The Morgan Bonds scandal injected populist antisemitism into the 1896 presidential campaign. It was disclosed that President Grover Cleveland had sold bonds to a syndicate which included J. P. Morgan and the Rothschilds house, bonds which that syndicate was now selling for a profit. The Populists used it as an opportunity to uphold their view of history, and prove to the nation that Washington and Wall Street were in the hands of the international Jewish banking houses.\n\nAnother focus of antisemitic feeling was the allegation that Jews were at the center of an international conspiracy to fix the currency and thus the economy to a single gold standard.\n\nLong-standing repressive policies and attitudes towards the Jews in Russia were intensified after the assassination of Tsar Alexander II on 13 March 1881. This event was blamed on the Jews and sparked widespread anti-Jewish pogroms in the Russian Empire which lasted for three years. A hardening of official attitudes under Tsar Alexander III and his ministers, resulted in the May Laws of 1882, which severely restricted the civil rights of Jews within the Russian Empire. The Tsar's minister Konstantin Petrovich Pobedonostsev stated that the aim of the government with regard to the Jews was that: \"One third will die out, one third will leave the country and one third will be completely dissolved [into] the surrounding population\". In the event, a mix of pogroms and repressive legislation did indeed result in the mass emigration of Jews to western Europe and America. Between 1881 and the outbreak of the First World War, an estimated two and half million Jews left Russia – one of the largest mass migrations in recorded history.\n\nHistorian Martin Gilbert writes that it was in the 19th century that the position of Jews worsened in Muslim countries. According to Mark Cohen in \"The Oxford Handbook of Jewish Studies\", most scholars conclude that Arab antisemitism in the modern world arose in the nineteenth century, against the backdrop of conflicting Jewish and Arab nationalism, and was imported into the Arab world primarily by nationalistically minded Christian Arabs (and only subsequently was it \"Islamized\"). There was a massacre of Jews in Baghdad in 1828. In 1839, in the eastern Persian city of Meshed, a mob burst into the Jewish Quarter, burned the synagogue and destroyed the Torah scrolls, and it was only by forced conversion that a massacre was averted. There was a massacre of Jews in Barfurush in 1867.\n\nConcerning the life of Persian Jews in the middle of the 19th century, a contemporary author wrote: ...they are obliged to live in a separate part of town... for they are considered as unclean creatures... Under the pretext of their being unclean, they are treated with the greatest severity and should they enter a street, inhabited by Mussulmans, they are pelted by the boys and mobs with stones and dirt... For the same reason, they are prohibited to go out when it rains; for it is said the rain would wash dirt off them, which would sully the feet of the Mussulmans... If a Jew is recognized as such in the streets, he is subjected to the greatest insults. The passers-by spit in his face, and sometimes beat him... unmercifully... If a Jew enters a shop for anything, he is forbidden to inspect the goods... Should his hand incautiously touch the goods, he must take them at any price the seller chooses to ask for them.\n\nIn 1840, in the Damascus affair, the Jews of Damascus were falsely accused of having ritually murdered a Christian monk and his Muslim servant and of having used their blood to bake Passover bread. A Jewish barber was tortured until he \"confessed\" to this crime; two other Jews who were arrested died under torture, while a third converted to Islam to save his life.\n\nIn 1864, around 500 Jews were killed in Marrakech and Fez in Morocco. In 1869, 18 Jews were killed in Tunis, and an Arab mob looted Jewish homes and stores, and burned synagogues, on Jerba Island. Jews in Morocco were attacked and killed in the streets in broad daylight. In 1891, the leading Muslims in Jerusalem asked the Ottoman authorities in Constantinople to prohibit the entry of Jews arriving from Russia.\n\nOne symbol of Jewish degradation was the phenomenon of stone-throwing at Jews by Muslim children. A 19th-century traveler observed: \"I have seen a little fellow of six years old, with a troop of fat toddlers of only three and four, teaching [them] to throw stones at a Jew, and one little urchin would, with the greatest coolness, waddle up to the man and literally spit upon his Jewish gaberdine. To all this the Jew is obliged to submit; it would be more than his life was worth to offer to strike a Mahommedan.\"\n\nIn the 20th century, antisemitism and Social Darwinism culminated in a systematic campaign of genocide, called the Holocaust, in which some six million Jews were exterminated in German-occupied Europe between 1942 and 1945 under the National Socialist regime of Adolf Hitler.\n\nIn Russia, under the Tsarist regime, antisemitism intensified in the early years of the 20th century and was given official favour when the secret police forged the notorious \"Protocols of the Elders of Zion\", a document purported to be a transcription of a plan by Jewish elders to achieve global domination. Violence against the Jews in the Kishinev pogrom in 1903 was continued after the 1905 revolution by the activities of the Black Hundreds. The Beilis Trial of 1913 showed that it was possible to revive the blood libel accusation in Russia.\n\nThe 1917 revolution ended official discrimination against the Jews but was followed, however, by massive anti-Jewish violence by the anti-Bolshevik White Army and the forces of the Ukrainian People's Republic in the Russian Civil War. From 1918–21, between 100,000 and 150,000 Jews were slaughtered. White emigres from revolutionary Russia fostered the idea that the Bolshevik regime, with its many Jewish members, was a front for the Jewish World Conspiracy, outlined in the \"Protocols of the Elders of Zion\", which had by now achieved wide circulation in the west.\n\nIn France, antisemitic agitation was promoted by right-wing groups such as Action Française, founded by Charles Maurras. These groups were critical of the whole political establishment of the Third Republic. Following the Stavisky Affair, in which a Jewish man named Serge Alexandre Stavisky was revealed to be involved in high-level political corruption, these groups encouraged serious rioting which almost toppled the government in the 6 February 1934 crisis. The rise to prominence of the Jewish socialist Léon Blum, who became prime minister of the Popular Front Government in 1936, further polarised opinion within France. Action Française and other right-wing groups launched a vicious antisemitic press campaign against Blum which culminated in an attack in which he was dragged from his car and kicked and beaten whilst a mob screamed 'Death to the Jew!' Catholic writers such as Ernest Jouin, who published the \"Protocols\" in French, seamlessly blended racial and religious anti-Semitism, as in his statement that \"from the triple viewpoint of race, of nationality, and of religion, the Jew has become the enemy of humanity.\" Pope Pius XI praised Jouin for \"combating our mortal [Jewish] enemy\" and appointed him to high papal office as a protonotary apostolic.\n\nAntisemitism was particularly virulent in Vichy France during World War II. The Vichy government openly collaborated with the Nazi occupiers to identify Jews for deportation and transportation to the death camps (about 75.000 were killed). The antisemitic demands of right-wing groups were implemented under the collaborating Vichy regime of Marshal Philippe Pétain, following the defeat of the French by the German army in 1940. A law on the status of Jews of that year, followed by another in 1941, purged Jews from employment in administrative, civil service and judicial posts, from most professions and even from the entertainment industry – restricting them, mostly, to menial jobs. Vichy's officials aided and abetted the Nazis in arresting and transporting over seventy-three thousand Jews to their deaths in the extermination camps in Nazi-occupied Poland.\n\nIn Germany, following World War I, Nazism arose as a political movement incorporating racially antisemitic ideas, expressed by Adolf Hitler in his book \"Mein Kampf\" (). After Hitler came to power in 1933, the Nazi regime sought the systematic exclusion of Jews from national life. Jews were demonized as the driving force of both international Marxism and capitalism. The Nuremberg Laws of 1935 outlawed marriage or sexual relationships between Jews and non-Jews. Antisemitic propaganda by or on behalf of the Nazi Party began to pervade society. Especially virulent in this regard was Julius Streicher's pornographic publication \"Der Stürmer\", which published the alleged sexual misdemeanors of Jews for popular consumption. Mass violence against the Jews was encouraged by the Nazi regime, and on the night of 9–10 November 1938, dubbed Kristallnacht, the regeme sanctioned the killing of Jews, the destruction of property and the torching of synagogues.\n\nAs Nazi occupation extended eastwards in World War II, antisemitic laws, agitation and propaganda were brought to occupied Europe, often building on local antisemitic traditions. In occupied Poland, Jews were forced into ghettos: in Warsaw, Kraków, Lvov, Lublin and Radom. Following the invasion of the Soviet Union in 1941, a campaign of mass murder in that country was conducted against Soviet Jews by Nazi death squads called the \"Einsatzgruppen\". On 20 January 1942, Reinhard Heydrich, deputed to find a \"final solution to the Jewish question\", chaired the Wannsee Conference at which all the Jews resident in Europe and North Africa were earmarked for extermination. Of the eleven million who were targeted, some six million men, women and children were killed by the Nazis between 1942 and 1945. This systematic genocide is known as the Holocaust. To implement this plan, Jews were transported to purpose-built extermination camps in occupied Poland, where they were killed in gas chambers. Extermination camps were located at Auschwitz-Birkenau, Chełmno, Bełżec, Majdanek, Sobibór and Treblinka. These camps accounted for about half of the total number of killed Jews.\n\nBetween 1900 and 1924, approximately 1.75 million Jews migrated to America's shores, the bulk from Eastern Europe. Where before 1900, American Jews never amounted even to 1 percent of America's total population, by 1930 Jews formed about 3½ percent. This dramatic increase and the upward mobility of some Jews was accompanied by a resurgence of antisemitism.\n\nIn the first half of the 20th century, Jews in the United States faced discrimination in employment, in access to residential and resort areas, in the membership of clubs and organizations and in tightened quotas on Jewish enrollment and teaching positions in colleges and universities. Some sources state that the conviction (and later lynching) of Leo Frank, which turned a spotlight on antisemitism in the United States, also led to the formation of the Anti-Defamation League in October 1913. However, Abraham H. Foxman, the organization's National Director, disputes this, stating that American Jews simply needed an institution to combat antisemitism. Social tension during this period also led to renewed support for the Ku Klux Klan, which had been inactive since 1870.\n\nAntisemitism in the United States reached its peak during the 1920s and 1930s. The pioneer automobile manufacturer Henry Ford propagated antisemitic ideas in his newspaper \"The Dearborn Independent\". The pioneer aviator Charles Lindbergh and many other prominent Americans led the America First Committee in opposing any involvement in the new war in Europe. Although America First avoided any appearance of antisemitism and voted to drop Henry Ford as a member for this reason. Lindbergh gave a speech in Des Moines, Iowa in which he expressed the decidedly Ford-like view that: \"The three most important groups which have been pressing this country towards war are the British, the Jews, and the Roosevelt Administration.\" In his diary Lindbergh wrote: \"We must limit to a reasonable amount the Jewish influence... Whenever the Jewish percentage of the total population becomes too high, a reaction seems to invariably occur. It is too bad because a few Jews of the right type are, I believe, an asset to any country.\" \n\nThe German American Bund held parades in the late 1930s which featured Nazi uniforms and flags with swastikas alongside American flags. Some 20,000 people listened to Bund leader Fritz Julius Kuhn at Madison Square Garden in 1939 criticizing President Franklin Delano Roosevelt by repeatedly referring to him as \"Frank D. Rosenfeld\" and calling his New Deal the \"Jew Deal\". By espousing a belief in the existence of a Bolshevik–Jewish conspiracy in America, Kuhn's activities came under the scrutiny of the US House Committee on Un-American Activities (HUAC) and when the United States entered World War II most of the Bund's members were placed in internment camps, and some were deported at the end of the war. \n\nhe United States did not provide for entry of the MS \"St. Louis\" refugees in 1939. During race riot in Detroit in 1943, Jewish businesses were targeted for looting and burning.\n\nAntisemitism in the Soviet Union reached a peak in 1948–1953 when several hundred Yiddish-writing poets, writers, painters and sculptors were killed in a purge campaign against the so-called rootless cosmopolitans. This culminated in the so-called Doctors' Plot and largely ended with the death of Soviet leader Joseph Stalin. \n\nThe Kielce pogrom and \"March 1968 events\" in communist Poland were further incidents of antisemitism in Europe. A common theme behind the anti-Jewish violence in Poland were blood libel rumours.\n\nDuring the early 1980s, isolationists on the far right made overtures to anti-war activists on the left in the United States to join forces against government policies in areas where they shared concerns. This was mainly in the area of civil liberties, opposition to United States military intervention overseas and opposition to U.S. support for Israel. As they interacted, some of the classic right-wing antisemitic scapegoating conspiracy theories began to seep into progressive circles, including stories about how a \"New World Order\", also called the \"Shadow Government\" or \"The Octopus\", was manipulating world governments. Antisemitic conspiracism was \"peddled aggressively\" by right-wing groups. Some on the left adopted the rhetoric, which it has been argued, was made possible by their lack of knowledge of the history of fascism and its use of \"scapegoating, reductionist and simplistic solutions, demagoguery, and a conspiracy theory of history.\" The Crown Heights riots of 1991 were a violent expression of tensions within a very poor urban community, pitting African American residents against followers of Hassidic Judaism. \n\nTowards the end of 1990, as the movement against the Gulf War began to build, a number of far-right and antisemitic groups sought out alliances with left-wing anti-war coalitions, who began to speak openly about a \"Jewish lobby\" that was encouraging the United States to invade the Middle East. This idea evolved into conspiracy theories about a \"Zionist-occupied government\" (ZOG), which has been seen as equivalent to \"The Protocols of the Elders of Zion\". \n\nThe first years of the 21st century have seen an upsurge of antisemitism. Several authors such as Robert S. Wistrich, Phyllis Chesler, and Jonathan Sacks argue that this is antisemitism of a new type stemming from Islamists, which they call new antisemitism. Blood libel stories have appeared numerous times in the state-sponsored media of a number of Arab nations, on Arab television shows, and on websites.\n\nIn 2004, the United Kingdom set up an all-Parliamentary inquiry into antisemitism, which published its findings in 2006. The inquiry stated that: \"Until recently, the prevailing opinion both within the Jewish community and beyond [had been] that antisemitism had receded to the point that it existed only on the margins of society.\" However, it found a reversal of this progress since 2000 and aimed to investigate the problem, identify the sources of contemporary antisemitism and make recommendations to improve the situation. A 2008 report by the U.S. State Department found that there was an increase in antisemitism across the world, and that both old and new expressions of antisemitism persist. A 2012 report by the U.S. Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and Labor also noted a continued global increase in antisemitism, and found that Holocaust denial and opposition to Israeli policy at times was used to promote or justify blatant anti-Semitism.\n\nWilliam D. Rubenstein, a respected author and historian, outlines the presence of antisemitism in the English-speaking world in one of his essays with the same title. In the essay, he explains that there are relatively low levels of antisemitism in the English-speaking world, particularly in Britain and the United States, because of the values associated with Protestantism, the rise of capitalism, and the establishment of constitutional governments that protect civil liberties. Rubenstein does not argue that the treatment of Jews was ideal in these countries, rather he argues that there has been less overt antisemitism in the English-speaking world due to political, ideological, and social structures. Essentially, English-speaking nations experienced lower levels of antisemitism because their liberal and constitutional frameworks limited the organized, violent expression of antisemitism. In his essay, Rubinstein tries to contextualize the reduction of the Jewish population that led to a period of reduced antisemitism: \"All Jews were expelled from England in 1290, the first time Jews had been expelled en masse from a European country\"\n\nAs mentioned, Protestantism was a major factor that curbed antisemitism in England beginning in the sixteenth century. This is supported by the fact that there were a significantly higher number of reported instances of killing Jews in England prior to the birth of Protestantism. Protestants were comparatively understanding to Jews relative to Catholics and other religious groups. Possibly, one reason that Protestant groups were supportive of Jews was because they preferred the Old Testament to the New Testament, so their doctrine shared both content and narrative with the Jewish teachings. Rubenstein attests that another reason \"most of these [Protestants] were predisposed to be sympathetic to the Jews\" was because they often \"view[ed] themselves, like the biblical Hebrews, as a chosen group that had entered in a direct covenant with God.\" Lastly, Protestantism's anti-Catholic bend contributed to lower levels of antisemitism: \"All of these groups were profoundly hostile to Catholicism. Anti-Catholicism, at both elite and mass levels, became a key theme in Britain, tending to push antisemitism aside.\" Overall, the emergence of Protestantism lessened the severity of antisemitism through use of the Old Testament and anti-Catholic sentiment.\n\nIn post-Napoleonic England when there was a notable absence of Jews, Britain removed bans on \"usury and moneylending,\" and Rubenstein attests London and Liverpool became economic trading hubs that bolstered England's status as an economic powerhouse. Jews were often associated with being the moneymakers and financial bodies in Europe, so it is significant that the English were able to claim responsibility to the country's financial growth and not attribute it to Jews. It is also significant that because Jews were not in the spotlight financially, it took a lot of the anger away from them, and as such, antisemitism was somewhat muted in England. It is said Jews did not rank among the \"economic elite of many British cities\" in the 19th century. Again, the significance in this is that British Protestants and non-Jews felt less threatened by Jews because they were not imposing on their prosperity and were not responsible for the economic achievements of their nation.Albert Lindemann also proposes in the introduction of his book \"Antisemitism: A History\" that Jews \"assumed social positions, such as moneylending, that were inherently precarious and tension creating.\" Lindemann believes moneylending is inevitably riddled with tension, so as long as Jews were moneylenders, they will always be at the center of the problem and synonymous with fraught financial affairs.\n\nThe third major factor that contributed to lessening antisemitism in Britain was the establishment of a constitutional government, something that was later adopted and bolstered by the United States. A constitutional government is one that has a written document that outlines powers of government in an attempt to balance and protect the civil rights. After the English Civil War and Protectorate (1640–60) and the Glorious Revolution (1699–1680), parliament was established in Britain to make laws that protected the rights of British citizens. The Bill of Rights specifically outlined laws to protect British civil liberties as well. Thus, it is not surprising that having a constitutional government with liberal principles minimized, to some extent, antisemitism in Britain.\n\nIn further attempts to minimize antisemitism within government, the United States' Declaration of Independence embraced the liberal principles put forth by England and formed a republic that had executive, judicial, and legislative powers and even \"forbid the establishment of any religion or any official religious test for office holding.\" Having a government that respected and protected civil liberties, especially those pertaining to religious liberties, reduced blatant antisemitism by constitutionally protecting the right to practice different faiths. These sentiments go as far back to the first President of the United States, George Washington, when he asserted his belief of religious inclusion. Rubinstein believes that though instances of antisemitism definitely existed in Britain and America, the moderation of antisemitism was limited in English-Speaking countries largely because of political and social ideologies that come with a constitutional government.\n\nWhile English-speaking countries usually points towards the United States and Britain, antisemitism was also low in other English-speaking countries such as Canada, Australia, South Africa, and New Zealand. Australia has had a historically bright outlook on Jews and had \"remarkably little overt antisemitism at any point.\" Similarly, Ireland and New Zealand also experienced a lower presence of antisemitism. This is not to say that English reduces antisemitic sentiment, but rather that the ideologies that often accompany English-speaking countries affects acceptance of Jews. While antisemitism tended to be low in English-speaking regions of Canada, antisemitism proved to be higher in Quebec where the native language is French.\n\nQuebec has a \"long history of blaring antisemitism, enunciated by French-speaking nationalists steeped in the most extreme forms of Catholic hostility to the Jews.\" This is important because other English-speaking parts of Canada were more tolerant than the non-English speaking parts, which suggests a correlation between lingual diversity and the level of Jewish hate. Additionally, it seems as if Quebec's firm stance on Catholic hostility directed towards Jews contributed to local antisemitic behavior.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4378582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4378582", "title": "Hove amber cup", "text": "Hove amber cup\n\nThe Hove amber cup is a Bronze Age cup that was discovered in a great round barrow mound which was crudely excavated in 1856, in Hove, East Sussex, England, and is now in Hove Museum and Art Gallery. It was found during the construction of Palmeira Square. The barrow was of exceptional size and quality, suggesting a date in the mid-Bronze Age. The Hove amber cup is one of only two found in Britain; the other was in Dorset. However, the two are not of the same style of craftsmanship.\n\nDated to around 1250 BCE, the amber cup was found in a Wessex culture grave in a coffin made from a treetrunk. Also in the coffin were a skeleton, a Camerton (Wessex culture) type dagger, a whetstone and a small axe.\n\nIt has been associated with a small group of other \"unstable\" cups with round bottoms, made of precious materials and found in north-western Europe. Most are in gold, but also silver, amber and shale. The Ringlemere Cup and Rillaton Cup are the two British gold cups. The amber would have come from the Baltic region, and the group suggest early trade links between Britain and Europe.\n\nAccording to the original description by Barclay Philips, \n\n"}
{"id": "52457536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52457536", "title": "Howard F. Cline", "text": "Howard F. Cline\n\nHoward F. Cline (June 12, 1915 – June 1, 1971, Washington DC) was an American government official and historian, specialising in Latin America. Cline served as Director of the Hispanic Foundation at the Library of Congress from 1952 until his death in June 1971. He was one of the founders of the Latin American Studies Association. He was also active in the Conference on Latin American History (CLAH), the professional organization of Latin American historians, which he chaired in 1964. He is still highly regarded as a scholar \"devoted to and effective in the promotion of Latin American studies in the United States.\"\n\nBorn in Detroit, Michigan, Cline grew up in Indianapolis, Indiana. He was admitted to Harvard College on a scholarship; in his sophomore year became a resident in Dunster House, whose Master was Clarence H. Haring, later Cline’s dissertation adviser. In 1939 Cline graduated magna cum laude in history, writing his senior thesis on American journalist Benjamin Orange Flower, which he later published. He was elected to Phi Beta Kappa. He won a Frederick Sheldon Fellowship, which funded travel for a year outside of the U.S. following graduation, and which he used to go to Mexico.\n\nIn 1940, Cline entered the graduate program in History at Harvard, with Clarence Haring as his adviser. He did fieldwork in a then-remote Chinantec village of San Pedro Yólox in Oaxaca in 1942-43 as a Social Science Research Fellow, which resulted in several publications. Cline's dissertation was on the Caste War (\"guerra de las castas\"). In 1947 he briefly taught at Yale and then Northwestern University. He left academia in 1952 to become Director of the Hispanic Foundation at the Library of Congress.\n\nIn 1952 Cline succeeded Lewis Hanke as director of the Hispanic foundation. Cline expanded the coverage of the Handbook of Latin American Studies, founded under Hanke’s tenure at the Hispanic Foundation, with social science and humanities volumes alternating by year. Active in scholarly organizations in the U.S., he was instrumental in incorporating the Conference on Latin American History as a nonprofit corporation, scholarly organization in 1964, the year he served as chair of the organization. He was one of the founders of the Latin American Studies Association (LASA). In 1966, in his history of the Latin American Studies Association, he suggested that at some future date Latin Americanists should erect a statue to Fidel Castro, the \"remote godfather\" of the field, who instigated a renewed U.S. interest in the region.\n\nCline edited a two-volume collection of essays on the development of Latin American history as a field. He also helped create the Seminar on the Acquisition of Latin American Library Materials (SALALM).\n\nCline prepared research materials for the U.S. Indian Claims Commission, providing information on the history of Florida Indians and the Jicarilla Apache.\n\nAfter 1960 Cline devoted time to volumes on ethnohistory for the \"Handbook of Middle American Indians\". This publication series focuses on what is now called Mesoamerica, under the editorship of Tulane University archeologist, Robert Wauchope.\n\nCline was awarded the Spanish government’s highest honor for foreigners, Commander in the Order of Isabella the Catholic, for his work to bring Spanish and American scholarly institutions into greater cooperation. Following his early death in 1971, he was eulogized in major scholarly journals of Latin American history and in the Congressional Record. In 1972, Cline was posthumously awarded the Conference on Latin American History’s Distinguished Service Award, their highest honor. In 1976 the Howard F. Cline Prize was established and awarded biennially for the best book on Latin American ethnohistory. In 2017, the Howard F. Cline Book Prize in Mexican History was established by the Latin American Studies Association.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41687138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41687138", "title": "Hu Sheng", "text": "Hu Sheng\n\nHu Sheng (11 January 1918 – 5 November 2000), was a Chinese Marxist theorist and historian. He was President of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences from 1985 to 1998, and also served as Vice-Chairman of the seventh and eighth National Committees of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference and member of the 12th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China.\n\nHu was born on 11 January 1918 in Suzhou, Jiangsu Province. He enrolled in the philosophy Department of Peking University in the year of 1934. He started involving in the communist revolutionary activities in Shanghai from 1935, mainly in the cultural activities and campaigns of resistance led by the Communist Party of China against the Japanese. After the Second Sino-Japanese War broke out in 1937, he moved to Central China and joined the Communist Party of China. From the age of 17 to 30, Hu wrote numerous articles for the Communist and other progressive newspapers and magazines and his published works summed up more than 1 million Chinese characters and had a great impact on ideological and cultural circles as well as young intellectuals.\n\nHu was responsible for the Party's theory research and publicity works for a long time after the People's Republic of China was formed in 1949. He also wrote a number of major works on Chinese and the Chinese Communist Party's history. He was the president of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences from 1985 to 1998. In 1996, Hu donated most of his books to a library in Hubei Province and established a fund to award outstanding young intellectuals.\n\nHe became the member of the 12th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China from 1982 to 1987. In 1988, he became the vice-chairman of the National Committee of the 7th Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference. He served for the second term and retired from office in 1998. He was also vice chairman of the Hong Kong Basic Law Drafting Committee which was responsible for drafting the Hong Kong Basic Law, the constitution of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region after it was handed over to China 1997.\n\nHu died of an illness on 5 November 2000 in Shanghai at the age of 82. Entrusted by the party's Central Committee, the Vice President Hu Jintao came to Shanghai to bid farewell to Hu Sheng, and to convey to Hu Sheng's family members. There were also concerns expressed from General Secretary Jiang Zemin and other members of the Politburo Standing Committee of the party's Central Committee.\n"}
{"id": "33393921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33393921", "title": "International Society for the Study of Medievalism", "text": "International Society for the Study of Medievalism\n\nThe International Society for the Study of Medievalism is an academic organization that exists to promote the interdisciplinary study of the popular and scholarly reception of the Middle Ages in postmedieval times. The society is based on the work and studies of Leslie J. Workman (1927–2001), who is recognized as the founder of the academic study of medievalism in the English-speaking world. The work of the society is characterized as open to innovative and inclusive interdisciplinary scholarship. As Elena Levy-Navarro writes: \"The Society has not restricted itself to a single definition of medievalism, and has, both by its calls for papers and by its acceptance and inclusion, encouraged academics to explore medievalism in such disparate phenomenon as the 'Celtic' tattoo, medieval gaming, and the early modern. Such an expansiveness that resists firm boundaries, and thus resists any efforts to develop a concrete field of specialty over which the academic can preside as expert is evident to the continued commitment of its members to electronic media that can provide (for those who can afford it) open access to its collective work, including its journal, \"Year’s Work in Medievalism\", and its community-authored blog, \"Medievally Speaking\". One need only consider the subtitle of this blog—'An Open Access Review Journal Encouraging Critical Engagement with the Continuing Process of Inventing the Middle Ages' (emphasis mine)—to see that the members insist on an openness, in which they critically engage—but not adjudicate—the 'continuing process of inventing the Middle Ages.'\" In 2017, the ISSM's president, Richard Utz, published a short monograph, \"Medievalism: A Manifesto\", that embedded the subject of medievalism studies within the larger academic contexts of reception studies, feminism, gender studies, and medieval studies.\n\nThe society maintains a peer-reviewed journal, \"Studies in Medievalism\", an online journal for shorter articles (\"The Year's Work in Medievalism\"), and a review journal, \"Medievally Speaking\" edited by Richard Utz. They also organize annual conference sessions at the International Congress on Medieval Studies at Western Michigan University and the International Medieval Congress at the University of Leeds, and hold their own Annual International Conferences on Medievalism at institutions of higher education worldwide.\n\n\"Studies in Medievalism\" is an annual publication that, as noted on its title page, \"provides an interdisciplinary medium of exchange for scholars in all fields, including the visual and other arts, concerned with any aspect of the post-medieval idea and study of the Middle Ages and its influence, both scholarly and popular, of this study on Western society after 1500.\"\n\nThe series was founded in 1979 by Leslie J. Workman as an independent publication. It is now published by Boydell & Brewer, Ltd., and has been edited since 2006 by Karl Fugelso. Since 2009, each volume has begun with a series of 3,000-word, commissioned essays on such topics as \"Defining Medievalism(s),\" \"Defining Neomedievalism(s),\" and \"Medievalism and the Corporation.\" But the series is otherwise open to any paper that addresses medievalism in at least 6,000 words, and recent topics have ranged from representations of King Alfred in Charles Dickens' \"A Child's History of England\" to medievalist music in Peter Jackson's \"The Lord of the Rings\" films.\n\n\"Studies in Medievalism\" does not publish reviews. All reviews of works, performances, etc., re-imagining the Middle Ages in postmedieval times are published in the journal's online review \"arm,\" \"Medievally Speaking\".\n\nThe journal \"The Year's Work in Medievalism\" is currently edited by Edward L. Risden (St. Norbert College) and Richard Utz (Georgia Tech). Former editors include Leslie J. Workman and Gwendolyn Morgan (Montana State University).\n"}
{"id": "51590138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51590138", "title": "Jewish women in early modern period", "text": "Jewish women in early modern period\n\nJewish women in the early modern period were a crucial part to all Jewish societies, as they made up half of the population. Living in places such as Italy, Poland-Lithuania, and the Ottoman Empire had effects on the role Jewish women played in their society. Different customs and regulations were found in various societies around the world.\n\nSome Italian Jewish women became published writers. One notable author was Sarra Copia Sullam (1592-1641). She was accused of plagiarism by men that wanted to undermine her written accomplishments. Jewish women also acted as ritual slaughterers. Ritual slaughter can be defined as killing animals for meat, typically in a religious ritual. Although women could act as ritual slaughterers, they had limited circumstances in which they were able to slaughter animals. Only qualified women were allowed to, and usually only in cases in which they needed to provide food for their families. Women also served in the business sphere of Italian society. They acted as financial agents for their husbands, moneylenders, manufacturers of buttons and silk, cosmetic developers, etc. Their business was conducted both privately and publicly. This practice of women in business was disputed by men in society, as they thought women had no place in business.\n\nJewish women were not allowed to worship communally in Jewish Italy. However, they did have a separate women's section in synagogue where they could worship and take part in their faith. Those women that could read Hebrew prayed daily. Translations from Hebrew to a more common language later appeared for those that did not know Hebrew—men also benefitted from these translations, as not all could men could read Hebrew. Women played a big role during worship by disrupting it. Zac is so hot. They would yell curses on their male counterparts and aired grievances they had. Because Jewish Italian women could not access the Torah during worship, they made the \"mappot,\" which was a binder with Torah scrolls. Some women even participated in daily fasting, prayer, and even abstaining from all pleasures.\n\nSome Jewish girls were lucky enough to receive a complete Jewish education in Italy. However, many in society feared educated girls, but realized that illiterate women would not make for good homemakers or mothers. Because of this realization, daughters were taught how to write in Italian and some even learned Hebrew. This education was mainly taken care of at home, but some girls attended school. Occasionally women became teachers of Hebrew—they were called \"rabbit\" or rabbinate. These teachers would also get involved with healing, midwifery, and other domestic practices, not just Hebrew teaching.\n\nAlmost as soon as a young woman would reach puberty, she would become engaged. The usual age of marriage for Italian Jewish women was between fourteen and eighteen, while the typical age of marriage for males was twenty-four to twenty-eight. Marriage typically occurred after an engagement period called the \"shiddukhin\" which could last about a year or more. The engagement process was determined by parents; fathers typically made the matches between young men and women. These engagements were considered to be binding legal contracts. Financial considerations were extremely important in determining enagagments, as women brought a dowry to the marriage, and grooms supplied monetary sums if the marriage ended in divorce, he went to jail, or he died. As such, the sums were determined in the engagement contracts.\n\nAfter the marriage occurred, young women left her family to join her husband's. She then became homemaker and was expected to have children. Jewish women in Italy were unable to initiate divorce, so in order to divorce her husband, a woman would have to either involve her rabbi, violate marital laws, or try to convert either herself or her husband to Christianity, as the marriage would then become null.\n\nEven though Jewish women in Poland-Lithuania were mainly secluded in their homes, they did have access to becoming economically independent and were able to hold jobs of their own in society. They performed as bankers, money-lenders, arendas, inn or tavern managers, peddlers, store owners, and craft-makers, where they would sell at markets under tight restrictions. Families were often dependent on the financial contribution Jewish women made by working in these areas of trade.\n\nWomen were not allowed to hold public office positions, due to male contempt for women. This did not mean, however, that they were unable to participate publicly. They could serve as court witnesses, petition signers, and bond guarantors.\n\nIn several communities in Poland-Lithuania, women were able to serve their communities and husbands as charity donation collectors. They participated in facilitating donations, monetary collecting, and giving money as well. As well as charity donations, older women in the community served as gynecologists for the town women. They would give exams, advice, and generally be consulted about many feminine problems women in town were experiencing. Women also acted charitably by advising other women about religious matters. These matters could include menstruation, adultery, and women's body preparation for burial.\n\nWomen were excluded from almost all religious and intellectual parts of life in Poland-Lithuania.\n\nJewish women in Poland-Lithuania tended to be secluded. They mainly stayed in their homes, and they were not allowed to have much contact with males (be they relatives or acquaintances) at all. Due to this seclusion, they had very limited access to traveling outside their home, and were told to go outside their homes only as \"little as necessary\". Of course, this then meant that their professions were limited, as seen in the section above. Women were supposed to be second to their husbands in their own homes, and as subordinates, their husbands would be in control of all types of situations. This led to the seclusion of women in their homes, applying to married and unmarried women.\n\nThe education of Jewish girls was primarily done through privately hired tutors or a member of their family who had studied enough to pass on the knowledge. Girls would study religious readings instead of the more common Yiddish literature that were translated into Hebrew. Sometimes, girls studied in \"heder\", which was why they were able to read Hebrew at all. However, most females in the Polish-Lithuanian commonwealth were illiterate, as female education was seen as much less important than male education.\n\nWomen's worship was generally a private affair. They had synagogue access mainly on holidays and each Sabbath, however they had to sit separately from males during religious activity. The synagogue was one of the acceptable public places for women to appear. Worship for women consisted of prayer, including the Yiddish \"ttkines\", or petitionary prayers. They're prayers depended on the time of year and even day, and could be modified for each individual reciting the prayers. This was due to each woman having own personal motivations and significance of religion, so the prayers needed to be unique to each and every one. Some male rabbi even stated that women \"were exempted from most of the commandments\" due to their status as women, so it is obvious that some were secluded from religious activity, however they had their own three \"women's comandmants\".\n\nPeasant Jewish women tended to peddle at the marketplaces, selling chicken along with eggs and wine, among other goods. These urban middle-class women were limited to jobs similar to peddling and farming. Wealthier women living in the Ottoman Empire had greater options towards their occupations. Sometimes these women acted as merchants or moneylenders. Other, much less common, professions Jewish women held were midwives and medical caregivers. While women in the Ottoman Empire had means to succeed on their own, their options were a bit limited.\n\nThe public place is one where women would go to either do chores, such as using the oven for cooking, using the looms for spinning and weaving, or fetching water for laundry and cooking. These were often social encounters as well as ones where Jewish women would get their responsibilities done.\n\nEspecially in the Spanish Sephardic society, bath houses were attended regularly by Jewish women and were regarded as social places. Women would socialize with each other. These women bathed with women of other religions too such as Christians and Moslems. Occasionally this practice was looked down upon by men, as they did not believe people of different religions should associate with each other.\n\nSimilarly to the Household confinement section, Moslem influence reached to how Jewish women participated in worship. Unlike Moslem women, Jewish women were allowed to attend worships in their synagogues. However, in the Spanish synagogues, women were separated from men during the services, which is a common Moslem practice.\n\nIn the Sephardic Ottoman Empire, different cultures lived amongst each other. This led to the Moslem culture influencing Jewish women in their daily activities. As the Early Modern period Moslem culture restricted women's movement outside the home and regulated their dress if they did venture outside, the Jews of the Ottoman Empire also began adopting these practices. Portuguese Jewish men during this time period were especially protective of their female counterparts, and would seclude them from other aspects of society.\n\nJewish women became heads of households if their husbands passed away. This new status was one of extreme independence, and it was regularly accepted in Ottoman society. Widows controlled their own dowry and inheritances—she was also completely responsible for herself and any children she had with her husband. This gave widows immense power and freedom of movement in society.\n"}
{"id": "5795787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5795787", "title": "Joaquín García Icazbalceta", "text": "Joaquín García Icazbalceta\n\nJoaquín García Icazbalceta (August 21, 1824 – November 26, 1894) was a Mexican philologist and historian. He edited writings by Mexican writers who preceded him, wrote a biography of Juan de Zumárraga, and translated William H. Prescott's \"Conquest of Mexico\". His works on Colonial Mexico continue to be cited today.\n\nGarcía Icazbalceta was born in Mexico City to a wealthy Spanish family. The family was exiled to Spain in 1825, shortly after the recognition of Mexican independence, by an act of Congress, and was not able to return until seven years later.\n\nHe was educated by tutors and through independent reading. He learned several Continental languages and delved into the study of Iberoamerica. His studies were interrupted by the outbreak of the Mexican-American War, in which he took part. After the war he returned to scholarly pursuits.\n\nHe married Filomena Pimentel (who died in chilbirth), granddaughter of Count of Heras.\n\nHe spent the better part of his life amassing a large collection of books, documents, and manuscripts from the colonial era, which he used in his work.\n\nGarcía Icazbalceta wrote his biography of Juan de Zumárraga, the first Archbishop of Mexico, during a time when Mexican history was being reevaluated, resulting in criticism of the Archbishop and the mendicant orders who converted the natives. In it, he countered Liberal and Protestant charges that the Archbishop was \"ignorant and fanatical\" by casting him and other Franciscans in the role of the saviors of the Indians, from the brutality of the civil authority.\n\nHe also highlighted the Archbishop's role in fostering early educational institutions such as the Colegio Santa Cruz and credits him with bringing the first printing press to the Western hemisphere.\n\nHe especially objected to charges—levelled by Mier, Bustamante, and Prescott—that Zumárraga had played any role in the destruction of native Aztec codices, arguing that most of the destruction had occurred before Zumárraga's arrival, that no Spanish chroniclers mention any book burnings, and that the one mentioned by Alva de Ixtlilxochitl was committed by Tlaxcalans in 1520.\n\nHe also used the book to criticize the hypocrisy he viewed in Liberal legislators, who, while attacking the Archbishop for cruelty to the Indians, betrayed the indigenous heritage of the nation by lifting limitations on the export of ancient works of art and artifacts.\n\nThe book was sufficient to restore the credibility of the Archbishop and the place of the Franciscans as founders of the Mexican society in the Mexican consciousness, but it raised other questions. Many people were uncomfortable with the lack of any mention of the apparition of the Virgin Mary as Our Lady of Guadalupe or Zumárraga's construction of a chapel in her honor.\n\nIn fact, García Icazbalceta had written a chapter on the subject, which he elected not to include in the final draft at the behest of Francisco Paula de Verea, bishop of Puebla. In it, he divulged that he had not found any contemporary documents referring to the apparition, identifying Miguel Sánchez's 1648 \"Imagen de la Virgen\" as the first to appear.\n\nDespite his prestige as Mexico's pre-eminent historian of the time, his political conservatism and his devout Catholicism, attacks were made against his reputation by defenders of the historicity of the apparition. In response to a demand made by Pelagio Antonio de Labastida, Archbishop of Mexico, he wrote a detailed account of \"what history tells us about the apparition of Our Lady of Guadalupe to Juan Diego\".\n\nIn it, he detailed all of the historical problems with the traditional legend of the apparition. These included the silence of historical documents on the phenomenon, especially that of Zumárraga, the lack of any of the Nahuatl documents mentioned by previous historians, the unremarkability of the blossoming of flowers during the month of December (an important aspect of the traditional narrative), and the improbability that \"Guadalupe\" was a Nahuatl name. He further cited inconsistencies between the studies of the icon as reasons to doubt the apparition's historicity.\n\nHe started work on a dictionary of Mexican Spanish, \"Vocabulario de Mexicanismos\", which was only finished up to the letter \"G\" and was published posthumously.\n\nIcazbalceta was elected a member of the American Antiquarian Society in 1881.\n\nGarcía Icazbalceta died of \"cerebral apoplexy\" at the age of 70.\nHis writings on the work of the Franciscan Order in Colonial Mexico influenced the work of Ignacio Manuel Altamirano, a contemporary historian.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50851065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50851065", "title": "Johann Gottlob Böhme", "text": "Johann Gottlob Böhme\n\nJohann Gottlob Böhme (20 March 1717 in Wurzen – 20 June 1780 in Leipzig) was a German historian.\n\nBeginning in 1736 he studied history at the University of Leipzig. In 1747 he acquired his magister degree at Leipzig, where four years later he became an associate professor at the faculty of philosophy. In 1758 he succeeded Christian Gottlieb Jöcher as professor of history at the university.\n\nOn four separate occasions he served as rector at the University of Leipzig. In 1766 he was appointed councilor and court historiographer for the Electorate of Saxony. In 1875, the thoroughfare \"Böhmestraße\" in Gohlis (today part of Leipzig) was named in his honor.\n\nIn 1763–65 he published a highly regarded work on the Peace of Oliva (1660), titled \"Acta pacis Oliviensis inedita\" (2 volumes). Other noted written efforts by Böhme include:\n"}
{"id": "34620489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34620489", "title": "Kepa Hamuera Anaha Ehau", "text": "Kepa Hamuera Anaha Ehau\n\nKepa Hamuera Anaha Ehau (5 November 1885 – 10 February 1970) was a New Zealand tribal leader, law clerk, interpreter, soldier, historian, orator. He was born on November 5, 1885.\n"}
{"id": "37133220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37133220", "title": "Krasnyi Yar (Kazakhstan)", "text": "Krasnyi Yar (Kazakhstan)\n\nKrasnyi Yar is an eneolithic site of the Botai culture in Kazakhstan. This large site is significant for the early use of horses there. Horse meat was eaten, but horses were also kept as livestock.\nEvidence from the presence of curved rows of postholes (indicative of fencing) and nitrogen and phosphates in the enclosed areas indicate a corral. The only livestock bones found at the site were from horses, so the inference by the researchers is that horses were held in corrals at the site. \n\nHorse-bone tools indicate leather production, suggesting horse tack.\n\nBotai sites have been found to have mare's milk residue in vessels and to have horses with tooth-wear interpreted as having been caused by using a bit for riding or traction.\n"}
{"id": "54198796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54198796", "title": "Lorenzo Kamel", "text": "Lorenzo Kamel\n\nLorenzo Kamel (born 1980) is a historian of the modern and contemporary Middle East.\n\nHe is a Marie Curie historian (hab. associate professor) at the University of Freiburg's Institute for Advanced Studies (FRIAS), where he lectures on the history of the modern and contemporary Middle East, and, since 2013, an Associate at Harvard University’s Center for Middle Eastern Studies (CMES), where he served as a Postdoctoral Fellow for two academic years with a project entitled \"Artificial Nations? The Sykes-Picot and the Islamic State’s narratives in a historical perspective\". He is also a senior research fellow at the Istituto Affari Internazionali (IAI), where he serves as the books series editor, the scientific director of the project \"New-Med, The Future of Cooperation in the Mediterranean”, and the IAI scientific coordinator of MENARA (Middle East and North Africa regional architecture), an Horizon2020 project co-lead by CIDOB and IAI.\n\nHe holds a laurea magistrale in philosophy from La Sapienza University of Rome, a two-year M.A. in Israeli society and politics from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, and a Ph.D. in history from Bologna University. He held seminars, lessons and courses in a number of Italian and international universities and lived for years in several countries in the Middle East, including, as a visiting fellow, in the Palestinian Territories (Birzeit University), Egypt ('Ain Shams University), Israel (Hebrew University), and Turkey (Bilkent University). He speaks Italian, English, Hebrew, Arabic and has a working knowledge of French, Ottoman Turkish, and Latin.\n\nHe published eight books on Middle Eastern and Mediterranean affairs, including \"Imperial perceptions of Palestine: British Influence and Power in Late Ottoman Times\", a widely acclaimed book based on sources from 17 archives and a plethora of written and oral primary source material. His publications include also over 30 articles on academic journals such as British Journal of Middle Eastern Studies, Mediterranean Politics, Peace and Change, Eurasian Studies, New Middle Eastern Studies, Passato e Presente, Oriente Moderno, The International Spectator, Storicamente, and about 200 articles and policy papers on Al Jazeera, Ha'aretz, Al-Monitor, Project Syndicate, The Daily Star (Lebanon), The National Interest (Washington), The National (Abu Dhabi), Opinio Juris, Aspen, Eurasia Review, Middle East Eye, openDemocracy, e-International Relations (e-IR), Middle East Policy Council, Pravda, Middle East Monitor (MEMO), The Jerusalem Post, +972mag, The Hill, Limes, Muftah, The Forward, The Huffington Post, Al-Araby Al-Jadeed, Equilibri, Affari Internazionali, and other media outlets in 10 languages, in over 30 countries.\n\nHe is a board member of a number of academic journals, including Palgrave Communications and Passato e Presente, and frequently acts as a peer-reviewer for the European Research Council (ERC Consolidator Grant “The Study of the Human Past”), Routledge, International Affairs (Chatham House), and other institutions, publishing houses and journals.\n\nHe was awarded with the 2010 \"Giuseppe Sciacca International Prize\", the Fritz Thyssen Stiftung Grant (2015), and the 2016 \"Palestine Book Award\" (1st prize, academic section).\n"}
{"id": "48363733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48363733", "title": "M. E. Chamberlain", "text": "M. E. Chamberlain\n\nMuriel Evelyn Chamberlain (born November 1932) is emeritus professor of history at the University of Wales, Swansea. She is a specialist in European colonisation and de-colonisation and British foreign policy in the nineteenth century. Chamberlain is one of the general editors of the Historical Association Studies book series.\n\n"}
{"id": "349428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=349428", "title": "Mani Peninsula", "text": "Mani Peninsula\n\nThe Mani Peninsula (, \"Mánē\"), also long known by its medieval name Maina or Maïna (Μαΐνη), is a geographical and cultural region in Greece that is home to the Maniots (Mανιάτες, \"Maniátes\" in Greek). The capital city of Mani is Areopoli. Mani is the central peninsula of the three which extend southwards from the Peloponnese in southern Greece. To the east is the Laconian Gulf, to the west the Messenian Gulf. The peninsula forms a continuation of the Taygetos mountain range, the western spine of the Peloponnese.\n\nThe name \"Mani\" may come from the name of the Frankish castle \"le Grand Magne\".\n\nThe terrain is mountainous and inaccessible.\n\nUntil recent years many Mani villages could be reached only by sea. Today a narrow and winding road extends along the west coast from Kalamata to Areopoli, then south to Akrotainaro (the pointed cape, which is the southernmost point of continental Greece) before it turns north toward Gytheio. Another road, that is used by the public buses of the Piraeus - Mani line, which has existed for several decades, comes from Tripoli through Sparta, Gytheio, Areopoli and ends in the Gerolimenas port near Cape Matapan.\nMani has been traditionally divided into three regions:\n\nA fourth region named Vardounia (Βαρδούνια) to the north is also sometimes included but was never historically part of Mani. Vardounia served as a buffer between the Ottoman-Turkish controlled Evrotas plains and Mani. A contingent of Muslim Albanian settlers were relocated to the region by the Ottomans. These settlers formed a large segment of the local population until the Greek War of Independence when they fled to the Turkish stronghold at Tripoli. Following the war Vardounia's Greek population was reinforced by settlers from Lower Mani and central Laconia.\nAdministratively, Mani is now divided between the prefectures of Laconia (Kato Mani, Mesa Mani) and Messenia (Exo Mani), in the periphery of Peloponnesos, but in ancient times it lay entirely within Laconia, the district dominated by Sparta. The Messenian Mani (also called \"aposkiaderi\", a local expression meaning \"shady\") receives somewhat more rainfall than the Laconian (called \"prosiliaki\", a local expression meaning \"sunny\"), and is consequently more productive in agriculture. Maniots from what is now Messenian Mani have surnames that uniformly end in \"-éas\", whereas Maniots from what is now Laconian Mani have surnames that end in \"-ákos\"; additionally there is the \"-óggonas\" ending, a corruption of \"éggonos\", \"grandson\".\n\nNeolithic remains have been found in many caves along the Mani coasts, including the Alepotrypa Cave. Homer refers to a number of towns in the Mani region, and some artifacts from the Mycenaean period (1900 BC - 1100 BC) have been found. The area was occupied by the Dorians in about 1200 BC, and became a dependency of Sparta. After Spartan power was destroyed in the 3rd century BC, Mani remained self-governing.\n\nAs the power of the Byzantine Empire declined, the peninsula drifted out of the Empire's control. The fortress of Maini in the south became the area's centre. Over the subsequent centuries, the peninsula was fought over by the Byzantines, the Franks, and the Saracens.\n\nAfter the Fourth Crusade in 1204 AD, Italian and French knights (known collectively by the Greeks as Franks) occupied the Peloponnese and created the Principality of Achaea. They built the fortresses of Mystras, Passavas, Gustema (Beaufort), and Great Maina. The area fell under Byzantine rule after 1262, forming part of the Despotate of the Morea.\n\nIn 1460, after the fall of Constantinople, the Despotate fell to the Ottomans. Mani was not subdued and retained its internal self-government in exchange for an annual tribute, although this was only paid once. Local chieftains or \"beys\" governed Mani on behalf of the Ottomans:\n\nAs Ottoman power declined, the mountains of the Mani became a stronghold of the \"klephts\", bandits who also fought against the Ottomans. There is also evidence of a sizeable Maniot emigration to Corsica sometime during the Ottoman years. Petros Mavromichalis, the last \"bey\" of Mani, was among the leaders of the Greek War of Independence. He proclaimed the revolution at Areopoli on March 17, 1821. The Maniots contributed greatly to the struggle, but once Greek independence was won, they wanted to retain local autonomy. During the reign of Ioannis Kapodistrias, they violently resisted outside interference, to the extent of Mavromichalis killing Kapodistrias.\n\nIn 1878 the national government reduced the local autonomy of the Mani, and the area gradually became a backwater; inhabitants abandoned the land through emigration, with many going to major Greek cities, as well as to western Europe and the United States. It was not until the 1970s, when the construction of new roads supported the growth of the tourist industry, that the Mani began to regain population and become prosperous.\n\nDespite the region's aridity, Mani is known for its unique culinary products such as \"glina\" or \"syglino\" (pork or pork sausage smoked with aromatic herbs such as thyme, oregano, mint, etc. and stored in lard along with orange peel). Mani is also known for what some consider the world's best extra-virgin olive oil, soft-pressed from partially ripened olives of the \"Koroneiki\" variety, which are grown on mountain terraces. The local honey is also of superior quality.\n\nToday the Mani's coastal villages are full of cafés and souvenir shops. The peninsula attracts visitors for its Byzantine churches, Frankish castles, sandy beaches and scenery. Some popular beaches during the summer are Kalogria and the beaches by Stoupa harbor, while Kardamyli and Agios Nikolaos have good pebble and sand beaches, too. The ancient tower houses of Mani (\"pyrgospita\") are significant tourist attractions, and some offer accommodations for visitors. The Vlychada Cave at Pirgos Dirou, near Oitylo, are also a popular tourist destination. As they are partly underwater, visitors tour them in \"gondola\"-like boats.\n\nGytheio, Areopoli, Kardamyli, and Stoupa are filled with tourists during the summer months, but the region is generally quiet during the winter. Many inhabitants work as olive farmers, and devote the winter months to the olive harvest and processing. Some of the villages in the mountains are less tourist oriented and often have very few inhabitants.\n\nThe introduction of Christianity came late in the Mani: the first Greek temples began to be converted into Christian churches during the 11th century A.D. A Byzantine Greek monk called Nikon \"the Metanoite\" () was commissioned by the Church in the 10th century (900's AD) to spread Christianity to areas such as Mani and Tsakonia, which had remained pagan. \n\nSt. Nikon was sent to the Mani in the latter half of the 10th century to preach Christianity to the Maniots. Although the Maniots began to convert to Christianity century due to Nikon's preaching, it took more than 200 years, i.e. until the 11th and 12th centuries to eliminate most of the pagan Greek religion and traditions and for the Maniots to fully accept Christianity. After his sanctification by the Greek Orthodox Church, St. Nikon became patron saint of the Mani as well as Sparta.\n\nPatrick Leigh Fermor wrote of them:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1939133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1939133", "title": "Medieval reenactment", "text": "Medieval reenactment\n\nMedieval reenactment is a form of historical reenactment that focuses on re-enacting European history in the period from the fall of Rome to about the end of the 15th century. The second half of this period is often called the Middle Ages. This multiplicity of terms is compounded by the variety of other terms used for the period.\n\nThe first period is sometimes called the Migration Period or Dark Ages by Western European historians, and as Völkerwanderung (\"wandering of the peoples\") by German historians. This term is usually reserved for the 5th and 6th centuries. Re-enactors who re-create the next period of history - 7th to 11th centuries - often refer to this as Early medieval. The 12th to 14th centuries fall under the term High medieval, while the 15th century is often termed Late medieval.\n\nWith such a wide range of eras most medieval reenactment groups focus on a smaller time period, sometimes restricting their interest to a particular century, or even a specific decade, series of battles, or monarch, depending on how authentic the reenactment and encampment is intended to be.\n\nMedieval period oriented living history groups and reenactors focus on recreating civilian or military life in period of the Middle Ages. It is very popular in Eastern Europe. The goal of the reenactor and their group is to portray an accurate interpretation of a person who credibly could exist at a specific place at a specific point in time while at the same time remaining approachable to the public. Examples of living history activities include authentic camping, cooking, practicing historical skills and trades, and playing historical musical instruments or board games.\n\nRenaissance Fair participants generally borrow from a range of history and often incorporate fantasy or Hollywood-inspired elements into a presentation for public entertainment. In contrast, activities of the Society for Creative Anachronism (SCA) include everything from artistic disguises for modern items such as ice chests, to exhaustive research and authentic living history events.\n\nThe principal aim of this sort of reenactment is to re-create historical battles or methods of combat. The variations range from training of historical dueling practices (usually with an appropriate period sword such as an arming sword or rapier and wrestling as a martial art), to reenactment of historical or legendary battles of the medieval period.\n\nSome groups treating historical combat as a martial art do not fit the traditional definition of a reenactment group and are more similar to fencing clubs. An example is the SCA, which uses rattan swords to avoid injury. Others combine the sport with more traditional forms of reenactment, such as living history. It is usual to fight using more restricted target areas than in a real fight and with less speed and force, although some systems try to get as close to real combat as possible. \nMany societies try to reenact actual battles on or near the battle site. These events are usually open to the public to watch. Other societies such as the SCA hire venues for private events, including combat, without any public present. \n\nThe Federation of the Wars of the Roses is a British–based society which specialises in reenactments of the 15th Century. It stages events at historical sites all over Britain, including those on or near actual battle sites. There are rules on weapons, clothing and armour which are observed by the Households that are Federation members. New Households wishing to enter the Federation are sponsored by established ones, and endure a probationary period to ensure standards are observed.\n\nThere have been many isolated examples of medieval reenactment in Europe, notably the Eglinton Tournament of 1839. In modern times, medieval reenactment has been popular in the United Kingdom, starting in the late 1960s and growing every year since, with groups from all over England, Scotland, Ireland and Wales participating in events. Many UK battles are reenacted at their original battle sites by enthusiasts with a high degree of authenticity, together with Medieval traders, musicians, caterers. UK reenactors can be seen throughout the country during the summer months at battles, fairs, carnivals, fetes, pubs and schools. Almost entirely throughout the UK, reenactors use blunted steel weapons for reenactments and rubber tipped arrows (blunts) for archers, or steel heads when target shooting. The largest early medieval event in the UK is the Battle of Hastings reenactment, which in 2006 had over 3600 registered participants and combined living history and combat reenactment. Most UK battles have at some point been reenacted such as the Battle of Lewes and the Battle of Evesham, many historical battles are reenacted annually from periods such as the Wars of the Roses, including the Battle of Bosworth Field and the Battle of Tewkesbury. Others are carried out at irregular intervals depending on the site availability and funding for the event, such as the Battle of Bannockburn. \n\nBelgium has at least two dozen separate groups of medieval reenactors, including the Order of the Hagelanders, the Gentsche Ghesellen and the Gruuthuse Household serving Lewis de Bruges, lord of Gruuthuse.\n\nThe open air museum Middelaldercentret uses living history and historical reenactment to portrait a part of a small Danish merchant town. Several reenactment groups exists in Denmark which are doing medieval reenactment at markets around the country.\n\nIn France there is an annual reenactment of the Battle of Agincourt representing a battle of the Hundred Years War.\n\nIn Germany medieval reenactment is usually associated with living history and renaissance faires and festivals as e.g. the Peter and Paul festival in Bretten. or the Schloss Kaltenberg knights tournament.In the past few years combat reenactment has gained some ground as well. A few groups are training historical combat such as longsword dueling and dussack fighting at universities, but the majority of combat reenactment groups are battlefield reenactment groups, some of which have become isolated to some degree because of a strong focus on authenticity (some groups refuse to fight groups representing different or wider periods, even if the combat practices would be entirely compatible otherwise). In general, the specific German approach of Authenticity (reenactment) is less about replaying a certain event, but to allow an immersion in a certain era. Historic city festivals and events are quite important to build up local communities and contribute to the self-image of municipalities. Events in monuments or on historical sites are less about the events related to them but as mere staffage for the immersion experience.\n\nAmong many battlefield reenactors in Germany, the Codex Belli has become a de facto standard.\n\nGroups from Central Europe, especially Hungary, are rumored to practice much more dangerous forms of battlefield reenactment, sometimes with sharp edges and points as well as metal arrow heads and an overall higher acceptance of the risk of injury posed by these dangers. This more risky, although more realistic, form of reenactment is apparently also practiced in former East Germany.\n\nIn Poland, the Battle of Grunwald reenactment every year on 15 July is the best known and attracts participants and visitors from many other countries. It is associated with living history and a medieval fair.\n\nIn Sweden there are many different \"medieval markets\". The largest is the one in Gotland.\nIn Szeklerland, Transylvania are many Hun, szekler knight, early Hungarian and hussar reenactment groups and camps.\nOne of those is the Szekler knights (Lofos) reenactment group in Torboszlo.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1070600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1070600", "title": "Metabolism (architecture)", "text": "Metabolism (architecture)\n\nDuring the preparation for the 1960 Tōkyō World Design Conference a group of young architects and designers, including Kiyonori Kikutake, Kisho Kurokawa and Fumihiko Maki prepared the publication of the Metabolism manifesto. They were influenced by a wide variety of sources including Marxist theories and biological processes. Their manifesto was a series of four essays entitled: Ocean City, Space City, Towards Group Form, and Material and Man, and it also included designs for vast cities that floated on the oceans and plug-in capsule towers that could incorporate organic growth. Although the World Design Conference gave the Metabolists exposure on the international stage their ideas remained largely theoretical.\n\nSome smaller, individual buildings that employed the principles of Metabolism were built and these included Tange's Yamanashi Press and Broadcaster Centre and Kurokawa's Nakagin Capsule Tower. The greatest concentration of their work was to be found at the 1970 World Exposition in Osaka where Tange was responsible for master planning the whole site whilst Kikutake and Kurokawa designed pavilions. After the 1973 oil crisis, the Metabolists turned their attention away from Japan and toward Africa and the Middle East.\n\nThe Congrès Internationaux d'Architecture Moderne (CIAM) was founded in Switzerland in 1928 as an association of architects who wanted to advance modernism into an international setting. During the early 1930s they promoted the idea (based upon new urban patterns in the United States) that urban development should be guided by CIAM's four functional categories of: dwelling, work, transportation, and recreation. By the mid-1930s Le Corbusier and other architects had moulded CIAM into a pseudo-political party with the goal of promoting modern architecture to all. This view gained some traction in the immediate post-war period when Le Corbusier and his colleagues began to design buildings in Chandigarh. By the early 1950s it was felt that CIAM was losing its avant-garde edge so in 1954 a group of younger members called \"Team 10\" was formed. This included the inner circle Dutch architects Jacob Bakema and Aldo van Eyck, Italian Giancarlo De Carlo, Greek Georges Candilis, the British architects Peter and Alison Smithson and the American Shadrach Woods. The Team 10 architects introduced concepts like \"human association\", \"cluster\" and \"mobility\", with Bakema encouraging the combination of architecture and planning in urban design. This was a rejection of CIAM's older four function mechanical approach and it would ultimately lead to the break-up and end of CIAM.\n\nKenzo Tange was invited to the CIAM '59 meeting of the association in Otterlo, Netherlands. In what was to be the last meeting of CIAM he presented two theoretical projects by the architect Kiyonori Kikutake: the Tower-shaped City and Kikutake's own home, the Sky House. This presentation exposed the fledgling Metabolist movement to its first international audience. Like Team 10's \"human association\" concepts Metabolism too was exploring new concepts in urban design.\n\nTower-shaped City was a 300 metre tall tower that housed the infrastructure for an entire city. It included transportation, services and a manufacturing plant for prefabricated houses. The tower was vertical \"artificial land\" onto which steel, pre-fabricated dwelling capsules could be attached. Kikutake proposed that these capsules would undergo self-renewal every fifty years and the city would grow organically like branches of a tree.\n\nConstructed on a hillside, the Sky House is a platform supported on four concrete panels with a hyperbolic paraboloid shell roof. It is a single space divided by storage units with the kitchen and bathroom on the outer edge. These latter two were designed so that they could be moved to suit the use of the house - and indeed they have been moved and/or adjusted about seven times over the course of fifty years. At one point a small children's room was attached to the bottom of main floor with a small child-sized access door between the two rooms.\n\nAfter the meeting, Tange left for Massachusetts Institute of Technology to begin a four-month period as a visiting professor. It is possible that based upon the reception of Kikutake's projects in Otterlo he decided to set the fifth year project as a design for a residential community of 25,000 inhabitants to be constructed on the water of Boston Bay. Tange felt a natural desire to produce urban designs based upon a new prototype of design, one that could give a more human connection to super-scale cities. He considered the idea of \"major\" and \"minor\" city structure and how this could grow in cycles like the trunk and leaves of a tree.\n\nOne of the seven projects produced by the students was a perfect example of his vision. The project consisted of two primary residential structures each of which was triangular in section. Lateral movement was provided by motorways and monorail, whilst vertical movement from the parking areas was via elevators. There were open spaces within for community centres and every third level there were walkways along which were rows of family houses. The project appeared to be based upon Tange's unrealised competition entry for the World Health Organisation headquarters in Geneva and both projects paved the way for his later project, \"Plan for Tōkyō – 1960\". Tange went on to present both the Boston Bay Project and the Tōkyō Plan at the Tōkyō World Design Conference.\n\nThe conference had its roots with Isamu Konmochi and Sori Yanagi who were representatives of the Japanese Committee on the 1956 International Design Conference in Aspen, Colorado. They suggested that rather than a four yearly conference in Aspen there should be a roving conference with Tōkyō as its first setting in 1960. Three Japanese institutional members were responsible for organising the conference, although after the Japan Industrial Design Association pulled out only the Japan Institute of Architects and the Japan Association of Advertising Arts were left. In 1958 they formed a preparation committee led by Junzo Sakakura, Kunio Maekawa and Kenzo Tange. As Tange had just accepted an invitation to be a visiting professor at Massachusetts Institute of Technology he recommended his junior colleague Takashi Asada to replace him in the organisation of the conference programmes.\n\nThe young Asada invited two friends to help him: the architectural critic and former editor of the magazine Shinkenchiku, Noboru Kawazoe, and Kisho Kurokawa who was one of Tange's students. In turn these two men scouted for more talented designers to help, including: the architects Masato Otaka and Kiyonori Kikutake and the designers Kenji Ekuan and Kiyoshi Awazu. Kurokawa was selected because he had recently returned from an international student conference in the Soviet Union and was a student of the Marxist architectural theorist Uzō Nishiyama. Ekuan was asked because of his recent participation in a seminar given by Konrad Wachsmann (he arrived at the lecture on a YA-1 motorbike that he had newly designed for Yamaha) and Otaka was a junior associate of Kunio Maekawa and had just completed the Harumi Apartment Building in Tōkyō Bay. Fumihiko Maki, a former undergraduate student of Tange also joined the group whilst in Tōkyō on a travelling fellowship from the Graham Foundation.\n\nBy day Asada canvassed politicians, business leaders and journalists for ideas, by night he met with his young friends to cultivate ideas. Asada was staying at the Ryugetsu Ryokan in Asakusa, Tōkyō and he used it as a meeting place for progressive scholars, architects and artists. He often invited people from other professions to give talks and one of these was the atomic physicist, Mitsuo Taketani. Taketani was a scholar who was also interested in Marxist theory and he brought this along with his scientific theories to the group. Taketani's three stage methodology for scientific research influenced Kikutake's own three stage theory: \"ka\" (the general system), \"kata\" (the abstract image) and \"katachi\" (the solution as built), which he used to summarise his own design process from a broad vision to a concrete architectural form.\n\nThe group also searched for architectural solutions to Japan's phenomenal urban expansion brought about by its economic growth and how this could be reconciled with its shortage of usable land. They were inspired by examples of circular growth and renewal found in traditional Japanese architecture like the Ise Shrine and Katsura Detached Palace. They worked in coffee shops and Tōkyō's International House to produce a compilation of their works that they could publish as a manifesto for the conference.\n\nThe conference ran from 11–16 May 1960 and had 227 guests, 84 of whom were international, including the architects Louis Kahn, Ralph Erskine, B. V. Doshi, Jean Prouvé, Paul Rudolph and Peter and Alison Smithson. Japanese participants included Kunio Maekawa, Yoshinobu Ashihara and Kazuo Shinohara.\n\nAfter his 13 May lecture, Louis Kahn was invited to Kikutake's Sky House and had a long conversation with a number of Japanese architects including the Metabolists. He answered questions until after midnight with Maki acting as translator. Kahn spoke of his universal approach to design and used his own Richards Medical Research Laboratories as an example of how new design solutions can be reached with new thinking about space and movement. A number of the Metabolists were inspired by this.\n\nWhilst discussing the organic nature of Kikutake's theoretical Marine City project, Kawazoe used the Japanese word \"shinchintaisha\" as being symbolic of the essential exchange of materials and energy between organisms and the exterior world (literally \"metabolism\" in a biological sense.) The Japanese meaning of the word has a feeling of \"replacement of the old with the new\" and the group further interpreted this to be equivalent to the continuous renewal and organic growth of the city. As the conference was to be a world conference, Kawazoe felt that they should use a more universal word and Kikutake looked up the definition of \"shinchintaisha\" in his Japanese-English dictionary. The translation he found was the word \"Metabolism\".\n\nThe group's manifesto \"Metabolism: The Proposals for New Urbanism\" was published at the World Design Conference. Two thousand copies of the 90 page book were printed and were sold for ¥500 by Kurokawa and Awazu at the entrance to the venue. The manifesto opened with the following statement:\n\nThe publication included projects by each member but a third of the document was dedicated to work by Kikutake who contributed essays and illustrations on the \"Ocean City\". Kurokawa contributed \"Space City\", Kawazoe contributed \"Material and Man\" and Otaka and Maki wrote \"Towards the Group Form\". Awazu designed the booklet and Kawazoe's wife, Yasuko edited the layout.\n\nSome of the projects included in the manifesto were subsequently displayed at the Museum of Modern Art's 1960 exhibition entitled \"Visionary Architecture\" and exposed the Japanese architects' work to a much wider international audience.\n\nUnlike the more rigid membership structure of Team 10, the Metabolist's saw their movement as having organic form with the members being free to come and go, although the group had cohesion they saw themselves as individuals and their architecture reflected this. This was especially true for Tange who remained a mentor for the group rather than an \"official\" member.\n\nKikutake's Ocean City is the first essay in the pamphlet. It covered his two previously published projects \"Tower-shaped City\" and \"Marine City\" and included a new project \"Ocean City\" that was a combination of the first two. The first two of these projects introduced the Metabolist's idea of \"artificial land\" as well as \"major\" and \"minor\" structure. Kawazoe referred to \"artificial land\" in an article in the magazine \"Kindai Kenchiku\" in April 1960. In responding to the scarcity of land in large and expanding cities he proposed creating \"artificial land\" that would be composed of concrete slabs, oceans or walls (onto which capsules could be plugged). He said that the creation of this \"artificial land\" would allow people to use other land in a more natural way.\n\nFor Marine City, Kikutake proposed a city that would float free in the ocean and would be free of ties to a particular nation and therefore free from the threat of war. The artificial ground of the city would house agriculture, industry and entertainment and the residential towers would descend into the ocean to a depth of 200 metres. The city itself was not tied to the land and was free to float across the ocean and grow organically like an organism. Once it became too aged for habitation it would sink itself.\n\nOcean City was a combination of both Tower-shaped City and Marine City. It consisted of two rings that were tangent to one another, with housing on the inner ring and production on the outer one. Administrative buildings were found at the tangent point. The population would have been rigidly controlled at an upper limit of 500,000. Kikutake envisaged that the city would expand by multiplying itself as though it was undergoing cell division. This enforced the Metabolist idea that the expansion of cities could be a biological process.\n\nIn his essay \"Space City\", Kurokawa introduced four projects: Neo-Tōkyō Plan, Wall City, Agricultural City and Mushroom-shaped house. In contrast to Tange's linear Tōkyō City Bay Project, Kurokawa's Neo-Tōkyō Plan proposed that Tōkyō be decentralised and organised into cruciform patterns. He arranged Bamboo-shaped Cities along these cruciforms but unlike Kikutake he kept the city towers lower than 31 metres to conform with Tōkyō's building code (these height limits were not revised until 1968).\n\nThe Wall City considered the problem of the ever-expanding distance between the home and the workplace. He proposed a wall-shaped city that could extend indefinitely. Dwellings would be on one side of the wall and workplaces on the other. The wall itself would contain transportation and services.\n\nSurviving the Ise Bay Typhoon in 1959 inspired Kurokawa to design the Agricultural City. It consisted of a grid-like city supported on 4 metre stilts above the ground. The 500 metres square city sat on concrete slab that placed industry and infrastructure above agriculture and was an attempt to combine rural land and the city into one entity. He envisaged that his Mushroom Houses would sprout through the slab of Agriculture City. These houses were shrouded in a mushroom-like cap that was neither wall nor roof that enclosed a tea room and a living space.\n\nMaki and Otaka's essay on Group Form placed less emphasis on the megastructures of some of the other Metabolists and focused instead on a more flexible form of urban planning that could better accommodate rapid and unpredictable requirements of the city.\n\nOtaka had first thought about the relationship between infrastructure and architecture in his 1949 graduation thesis and he continued to explore ideas about \"artificial ground\" during his work at Maekawa's office. Likewise, during his travels abroad, Maki was impressed with the grouping and forms of vernacular buildings. The project they included to illustrate their ideas was a scheme for the redevelopment of Shinjuku station which included retail, offices and entertainment on an artificial ground over the station. Although Otaka's forms were heavy and sculptural and Maki's were lightweight with large spans, both contained the homogeneous clusters that were associated with group form.\n\nKawazoe contributed a brief essay entitled \"I want to be a sea-shell, I want to be a mold, I want to be a spirit\". The essay reflected Japan's cultural anguish after the Second World War and proposed the unity of man and nature.\n\nOn 1 January 1961 Kenzo Tange presented his new plan for Tōkyō Bay (1960) in a 45-minute television programme on NHK. The design was a radical plan for the reorganization and expansion of the capital in order to cater for a population beyond 10 million. The design was for a linear city that used a series of nine-kilometre modules that stretched 80 km across Tōkyō Bay from Ikebukuro in the north west to Kisarazu in the south east. The perimeter of each of the modules was organised into three levels of looping highways, as Tange was adamant that an efficient communication system would be the key to modern living. The modules themselves were organised into building zones and transport hubs and included office, government administration and retail districts as well as a new Tōkyō train station and highway links to other parts of Tōkyō. Residential areas were to be accommodated on parallel streets that ran perpendicular to the main linear axis and like the Boston Bay project, people would build their own houses within giant A-frame structures.\n\nThe project was designed by Tange and other members of his studio at Tōkyō University, including Kurokawa and Arata Isozaki. Originally it was intended to publish the plan at the World Design Conference (hence its \"1960\" title) but it was delayed because the same members were working on the Conference organisation. Tange received interest and support from a number of government agencies but the project was never built. Tange went on to expand the idea of the linear city in 1964 with the Tōkaidō Megalopolis Plan. This was an ambitious proposal to extend Tōkyō's linear city across the whole of the Tōkaidō region of Japan in order to re-distribute the population.\n\nBoth Kikutake and Kurokawa capitalised on the interest in Tange's 1960 plan by producing their own schemes for Tōkyō. Kikutake's plan incorporated three elements both on the land and the sea and included a looped highway that connected all the prefectures around the bay. Unlike Tange however its simple presentation graphics put many people off. Kurokawa's plan consisted of helix-shaped megastructures floating inside cells that extended out across the bay. Although the scheme's more convincing graphics were presented as part of a film the project was not built.\n\nWith Japan's property boom in the 1980s, both Tange and Kurokawa revisited their earlier ideas: Tange with his Tōkyō Plan 1986 and Kurokawa with his New Tōkyō Plan 2025. Both projects used land that had been reclaimed from the sea since the 1960s in combination with floating structures.\n\nIn 1961 Kenzo Tange received a commission from the Yamanashi News Group to design a new office in Kōfu. As well as two news firms and a printing company the building needed to incorporate a cafeteria and shops at ground floor level to interface with the adjoining city. It also needed to be flexible in its design to allow future expansion.\n\nTange organised the spaces of the three firms by function to allow them to share common facilities. He stacked these functions vertically according to need, for example, the printing plant is on the ground floor to facilitate access to the street for loading and transportation. He then took all the service functions including elevators, toilets and pipes and grouped them into 16 reinforced concrete cylindrical towers, each with an equal 5 metre diameter. These he placed on a grid into which he inserted the functional group facilities and offices. These inserted elements were conceived of as containers that were independent of the structure and could be arranged flexibly as required. This conceived flexibility distinguished Tange's design from other architects' designs with open floor offices and service cores – such as Kahn's Richards Medical Research Laboratories. Tange deliberately finished the cylindrical towers at different heights to imply that there was room for vertical expansion.\n\nAlthough the building was expanded in 1974 as Tange had originally envisioned, it did not act as a catalyst for the expansion of the building into a megastructure across the rest of the city. The building was criticised for forsaking the human use of the building in preference to the structure and adaptability.\n\nIn 1966 Tange designed the Shizuoka Press and Broadcasting Tower in the Ginza district of Tōkyō. This time using only a single core Tange arranged the offices as cantilevered steel and glass boxes. The cantilever is emphasised by punctuating the three storey blocks with a single storey glazed balcony. The concrete forms of the building were cast using aluminium formwork and the aluminium has been left on as a cladding. Although conceived as a \"core-type\" system that was included in Tange's other city proposals, the tower stands alone and is robbed of other connections.\n\nThe icon of Metabolism, Kurokawa's Nakagin Capsule Tower was erected in the Ginza district of Tōkyō in 1972 and completed in just 30 days. Prefabricated in Shiga Prefecture in a factory that normally built shipping containers, it is constructed of 140 capsules plugged into two cores that are 11 and 13 stories in height. The capsules contained the latest gadgets of the day and were built to house small offices and pieds-à-terre for Tōkyō salarymen.\n\nThe capsules are constructed of light steel welded trusses covered with steel sheeting mounted onto the reinforced concrete cores. The capsules are 2.5 metres wide and four metres long with a 1.3 metre diameter window at one end. The units originally contained a bed, storage cabinets, a bathroom, a colour television set, clock, refrigerator and air conditioner, although optional extras such as a stereo were available. Although the capsules were designed with mass production in mind there was never a demand for them. Nobuo Abe, was a senior manager, managing one of the design divisions on the construction of the Nakagin Capsule Tower\n\nSince 1996 the tower has been listed as an architectural heritage by DoCoMoMo. However, in 2007 the residents voted to tear the tower down and build a new 14-storey tower. The tower still stands today and has approximately 15 people living inside. In 2010, the pods that are still safe to live in and not falling apart inside have become a hotel for a mere $30 American a night on average. However, as of 2017 many capsules have been renovated and are being used as residential and office spaces, while short-stay renting such as Airbnb or other lodging provisions have been banned by the administration of the building.\n\nAfter the World Design Conference Maki began to distance himself from Metabolist movement, although his studies in \"Group Form\" continued to be of interest to the Metabolists. In 1964 he published a booklet entitled \"Investigations in Collective Form\" in which he investigated three urban forms: Compositional-form, Megastructure and Group Form. The Hillside Terrace is a series of projects commissioned by the Asakura family and undertaken in seven phases from 1967 to 1992. It includes residential, office and cultural buildings as well as the Royal Danish Embassy and is situated on both sides of Kyū-Yamate avenue in the Daikanyama district of Tōkyō.\n\nThe execution of the designs evolves through the phases with exterior forms becoming more independent of the interior functions and new materials being employed. For example, the first phase has a raised pedestrian deck that gives access to shops and a restaurant and this was designed to be extended in subsequent phases but the idea, along with the original master plan, was discarded in later phases. By the third phase Maki moved away from the Modernist maxim of \"form follows function\" and started to design the building exteriors to better match the immediate environment. The project acted as a catalyst to the redevelopment of the whole area around Daikanyama Station.\n\nMetabolism developed during the post war period in a Japan that questioned its cultural identity. Initially the group had chosen the name \"Burnt Ash School\" to reflect the ruined state of firebombed Japanese cities and the opportunity they presented for radical re-building. Ideas of nuclear physics and biological growth were linked with Buddhist concepts of regeneration. Although Metabolism rejected visual references from the past, they embraced concepts of prefabrication and renewal from traditional Japanese architecture, especially the twenty-year cycle of the rebuilding of the Ise Shrine (to which Tange and Kawazoe were invited in 1953). The sacred rocks onto which the shrine is built were seen by the Metabolists as symbolising a Japanese spirit that predated Imperial aspirations and modernising influences from the West.\n\nIn his \"Investigations in Collective Form\" Maki coined the term \"Megastructure\" to refer structures that house the whole or part of a city in a single structure. He originated the idea from vernacular forms of village architecture that were projected into vast structures with the aid of modern technology. Reyner Banham borrowed \"Megastructure\" for the title of his 1976 book which contained numerous built and unbuilt projects. He defined \"Megastructures\" as modular units (with a short life span) that attached to structural framework (with a longer life span). Maki would later criticise the \"Megastructure\" approach to design advocating instead his idea of \"Group Form\" which he thought would better accommodate the disorder of the city.\n\nThe architect Robin Boyd readily interchanges the word Metabolism with Archigram in his 1968 book \"New Directions in Japanese Architecture\". Indeed, the two groups both emerged in the 1960s and disbanded in the 1970s and used imagery with megastructures and cells, but their urban and architectural proposals were quite different. Although utopian in their ideals, the Metabolists were concerned with improving the social structure of society with their biologically inspired architecture, whereas Archigram were influenced by mechanics, information and electronic media and their architecture was more utopian and less social.\n\nJapan was selected as the site for the 1970 World Exposition and 330 hectares in the Senri Hills in Osaka Prefecture were set aside as the location. Japan had originally wanted to host a World Exposition in 1940 but it was cancelled with the escalation of the war. The one million people who had bought tickets for 1940 were allowed to use them in 1970.\n\nKenzo Tange joined the Theme Committee for the Expo and along with Uso Nishiyama he had responsibility for master planning the site. The theme for the Expo became \"Progress and Harmony for Mankind\". Tange invited twelve architects, including Arata Isozaki, Otaka and Kikutake to design individual elements. He also asked Ekuan to oversee the design of the furniture and transportation and Kawazoe to curate the Mid-Air Exhibition which was sited in the huge space-frame roof.\n\nTange envisioned that the Expo should be primarily conceived as a big festival where human beings could meet. Central to the site he placed the Festival Plaza onto which were connected a number of themed displays, all of which were united under one huge roof. In his Tōkyō Bay Project Tange spoke about the living body having two types of information transmission systems: fluid and electronic. That project used the idea of a tree trunk and branches that would carry out those types of transmission in relation to the city. Kawazoe likened the space frame roof of the Festival Plaza to the electronic transmission system and the aerial-themed displays that plugged into it to the hormonal system.\n\nKawazoe, Maki and Kurokawa had invited a selection of world architects to design displays for the Mid-Air Exhibition that was to be incorporated within the roof. The architects included Moshe Safdie, Yona Friedman, Hans Hollein and Giancarlo De Carlo. Although Tange was obsessed with the theory of flexibility that the space framed provide he did concede that in reality it was not so practical for the actual fixing of the displays. The roof itself was designed by Koji Kamaya and Mamoru Kawaguchi who conceived it as a huge space frame. Kawaguchi invented a welding-free ball joint to safely distribute the load and worked out a method of assembling the frame on the ground before raising it using jacks.\n\nKikutake's Expo Tower was situated on the highest hill in the grounds and acted as a landmark for visitors. It was built of a vertical ball and joint space onto which was attached a series of cabins. The design was to have been a blueprint for flexible vertical living based upon a 360m3 standard construction cabin clad with a membrane of cast aluminium and glass that could be flexibly arranged anywhere on the tower. This was demonstrated with a variety of cabins that were observation platforms and VIP rooms and one cabin at ground level that became an information booth.\n\nKurokawa had won commissions for two corporate pavilions: the Takara Beautillion and the Toshiba IHI pavilion. The former of these was composed of capsules plugged onto six point frames and was assembled in just six days; the latter was a space frame composed of tetrahedron modules, based upon his Helix City that could grow in 14 different directions and resemble organic growth.\n\nExpo '70 has been described has the apotheosis of the Metabolist movement. But even before Japan's period of rapid economic growth ended with the world energy crisis, critics were calling the Expo a dystopia that was removed from reality. The energy crisis demonstrated Japan's reliance both on imported oil and led to a re-evaluation of design and planning with architects moving away from utopian projects towards smaller urban interventions.\n\nAfter the 1970 Expo, Tange and the Metabolists turned their attention away from Japan towards the Middle East and Africa. These countries were expanding on the back of income from oil and were fascinated by both Japanese culture and the expertise that the Metabolists brought to urban planning. Tange and Kurokawa capitalised on the majority of the commissions, but Kikutake and Maki were involved too.\n\nTange's projects included a 57,000 seat stadium and sports center in Riyadh for King Faisal, and a sports city for Kuwait for the planned 1974 Pan Arab Games. However, both were put on hold by the outbreak of the Fourth Arab-Israeli War in 1973. Likewise, the plan for a new city center in Tehran was cancelled after the 1979 revolution. He did however complete the Kuwaiti Embassy in Tōkyō in 1970 and Kuwait's International Airport.\n\nKurokawa's work included a competition win for Abu Dhabi's National Theatre (1977), capsule-tower designs for a hotel in Baghdad (1975) and a city in the desert in Libya (1979–1984).\n\nKikutake's vision for floating towers was partly realised in 1975 when he designed and built the Aquapolis for the Okinawa Ocean Expo. The 100 x 100 meter floating city block contained accommodation that included a banquet hall, offices and residences for 40 staff and it was built in Hiroshima and then towed to Okinawa. Further unbuilt floating city projects were undertaken, including a floating city in Hawaii for ocean research and a plug-in floating A-frame unit containing housing and offices that could have been used to provide mobile homes in the event of a natural disaster.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2466610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2466610", "title": "Metasystem transition", "text": "Metasystem transition\n\nA metasystem transition is the emergence, through evolution, of a higher level of organization or control.\n\nA metasystem is formed by the integration of a number of initially independent components, such as molecules (as theorized for instance by hypercycles), cells, or individuals, and the emergence of a system steering or controlling their interactions. As such, the collective of components becomes a new, goal-directed individual, capable of acting in a coordinated way. This metasystem is more complex, more intelligent, and more flexible in its actions than the initial component systems. Prime examples are the origin of life, the transition from unicellular to multicellular organisms, the emergence of eusociality or symbolic thought. \n\nThe concept of metasystem transition was introduced by the cybernetician Valentin Turchin in his 1970 book \"The Phenomenon of Science\", and developed among others by Francis Heylighen in the Principia Cybernetica Project. The related notion of evolutionary transition was proposed by the biologists John Maynard Smith and Eörs Szathmáry, in their 1995 book \"The Major Transitions in Evolution\". Another related idea, that systems (\"operators\") evolve to become more complex by successive closures encapsulating components in a larger whole, is proposed in \"the operator theory\", developed by Gerard Jagers op Akkerhuis.\n\nTurchin has applied the concept of metasystem transition in the domain of computing, via the notion of metacompilation or supercompilation. A supercompiler is a compiler program that compiles its own code, thus increasing its own efficiency, producing a remarkable speedup in its execution.\n\nThe following is the classical sequence of metasystem transitions in the history of animal evolution according to Turchin, from the origin of animate life to sapient culture:\n\n\nMany argue that the next human metasystem transition consists of a merger of biological metasystems with technological metasystems, especially information processing technology. Several cumulative major transitions of evolution have transformed life through key innovations in information storage and replication, including RNA, DNA, multicellularity, and also language and culture as inter-human information processing systems. In this sense it can be argued that the carbon-based biosphere has generated a cognitive system (humans) capable of creating technology that will result in a comparable evolutionary transition. \"Digital information has reached a similar magnitude to information in the biosphere... Like previous evolutionary transitions, the potential symbiosis between biological and digital information will reach a critical point where these codes could compete via natural selection. Alternatively, this fusion could create a higher-level superorganism employing a low-conflict division of labor in performing informational tasks... humans already embrace fusions of biology and technology. We spend most of our waking time communicating through digitally mediated channels, ...most transactions on the stock market are executed by automated trading algorithms, and our electric grids are in the hands of artificial intelligence. With one in three marriages in America beginning online, digital algorithms are also taking a role in human pair bonding and reproduction\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47014180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47014180", "title": "Michel Boivin", "text": "Michel Boivin\n\nMichel Boivin is a French historian and anthropologist who specializes in the Muslim world. Trained in contemporary history, Islamic studies and ethnology, he is currently Senior Research Fellow at the Centre national de la recherche scientifique (CNRS: French National Center for Scientific Research) and a member of the CEIAS (Center for South Asian Studies) at the School for Advanced Studies in the Social Sciences (EHESS). He teaches at the EHESS, where he supervises Masters and Ph.D. students. He also gives courses on contemporary constructions of secularism in Europe and in the Muslim world at the Université de Savoie Mont Blanc, and on the historical anthropology of South Asia at Sciences Po Lyon. In 2011, he created the Centre for Social Sciences in Karachi (CSSK), which is hosted by the Alliance Française in Karachi, as well as a collection published by Oxford University Press in Pakistan, the \"CSSK Series.\" Since 2013, he has been co-directing two seminars at the EHESS: “History and Anthropology of the Muslim Societies of South Asia” and “Authority and Politics in the Sufism of South and Central Asia.” In addition, he contributes to the organization of two CEIAS research groups: “Vernacular Cultures and New Muslim Elites,” with Julien Levesque, and “Gujarati and Sindhi Studies: Societies, Languages and Cultures,” with Pierre Lachaier.\n\nAfter studying at Chambéry high school with an emphasis in the humanities, Michel Boivin became an expert on the Modern history of the Muslim world. He holds a DEA in Arabic and Islamic studies from the Université Lyon 2, and obtained a doctorat in Oriental Languages, Civilizations and Societies from the Université Paris 3-Sorbonne Nouvelle on Isma’ilian Shi’ism and Modernity in Sultân Muhammad Shâh Aghâ Khân (1877-1957), and then an habilitation thesis in ethnology from the Université Paris Ouest-Nanterre, on the topic of Shi’ism, Sufism and Social dynamics in Contemporary Sindh (19th century-20th century).\nMichel Boivin is specialized in the study of the contemporary history and historical anthropology of Muslim communities in India and Pakistan during the colonial period, and since independence was obtained. After having devoted several years to the study of the Isma’ilians of these regions, he shifted his focus to Sufi groups. He directs a research team on “History and Sufism in the Indus Valley” at the CEIAS (EHESS-CNRS). From 2008 to 2011, this team has worked on an interdisciplinary and international project centered on the Sufi site of Sehwan Sharif. This mid-size city located in the southern Province of Pakistan called Sindh is where the tomb of the Sufi saint Lal Shahbaz Qalandar (d. 1274) is located. This sanctuary has become a site of pilgrimage where ecstatic dance practices take place. In addition, it is also an ecumenical center, as Hindus still play an important part in the rituals. Finally, Sehwan Sharif is a gathering place for gyrovague renouncers, used to be called “qalandars” and are now most often referred to as “malangs.”\n\nOne of his most recent research interests is in “Hindu Sufism” in Pakistan and India. To start out, Michel Boivin retraced the migratory paths of Sindhi Hindus, then researched their Sufi rituals in order to evaluate the extent to which they had to change to adapt to their new environment. In parallel, he has begun work on collecting the publications and manuscripts on Sufism in the Sindhi language. Despite his emphasis on historical anthropology, Michel Boivin continues to work on the appearance of new forms of knowledge in the 19th century. He is particularly interested in the production of a new culture in the Sindh province as a result of interaction between British colonial rule, the emergence of new elites and the objectification of Sufism. His work is therefore to be understood as a continuation of postcolonial studies, as he is engaged in reconstructing the evolution of the “Sufi culture of Sindh” based on archival work carried out in the Indian sub-continent and in Europe.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7267076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7267076", "title": "Nicholas Tarling", "text": "Nicholas Tarling\n\nPeter Nicholas Tarling (1 February 1931 – 13 May 2017) was a historian, academic, and author. He specialised in Southeast Asian history, and wrote on 18th- and 19th-century Malaysia, North Borneo, Philippines, and Laos, especially regarding foreign involvement in those countries.\n\nNicholas Tarling was born on 1 February 1931 in Iver, Buckinghamshire, England, and obtained his secondary education at St. Albans School. As an undergraduate at Christ's College, Cambridge, he was supervised by, among others, Sir John H. Plumb. He also earned his PhD at Cambridge, supervised by Dr Victor Purcell.\n\nIn 1957 he took up a teaching post at the University of Queensland in Gordon Greenwood's Department of History and Political Science. There, he taught courses in both European and Asian history. During those years he visited Southeast Asia and the US, and published three books: a revised version of his thesis; \"Anglo-Dutch Relations in the Malay World\"; \"Piracy and Politics in the Malay World\".\n\nIn 1965 Tarling was appointed associate professor at the University of Auckland in New Zealand, and in 1968 he became a full professor, still as a European and Asian history teacher. He also held posts as Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Chairman of the Deans Committee, and Deputy Vice-Chancellor. He also served on a number of inter-university and government committees.\n\nHe was the founder and president of the New Zealand Asian Studies Society (NZASIA) and also had two terms as President of the Association of University Teachers of New Zealand. His interest in the arts led to his appointment to Queen Elizabeth II Arts Council, to the chairmanship of the Symphonia of Auckland, and to a directorship of Opera New Zealand. He was a busy amateur actor and served for many years as University Orator.\n\nHe retired in 1996. He was a Fellow of the New Zealand Asia Institute and served for a while as director of the institute and later of the International Office. He was also a visiting Professor at University of Brunei Darussalam and honorary professor at University of Hull.\n\nHe was awarded the Cambridge Litt.D. in 1974 and given an honorary Litt.D. by the University of Auckland in 1996. In the 1996 Queen's Birthday Honours, Tarling was appointed a Member of the New Zealand Order of Merit for services to historical research and the arts.\n\nTarling died on 13 May 2017 while swimming at Narrow Neck beach on Auckland's North Shore.\n\nTarling published some 45 books and edited fifteen. Those in Asian history include \"Britain, the Brookes and Brunei\" (1971), \"Sulu and Sabah\" (1978), \"The Burthen\", \"The Risk and the Glory\" (1982), and \"The Fourth Anglo-Burman War\" (1987).\n\nHe also edited \"The Cambridge History of Southeast Asia\". In retirement he has completed a trilogy on British policy in Southeast Asia during the Pacific War, the Cold War and the Korean War, and also published a book on the Japanese interregnum, \"A Sudden Rampage\". A second trilogy, on imperialism, nationalism and regionalism in Southeast Asia, is almost complete. He also published books on university policy, including one on overseas students, and on opera.\n\n"}
{"id": "45042094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45042094", "title": "Osemawe of Ondo Kingdom", "text": "Osemawe of Ondo Kingdom\n\nThe Osemawe of Ondo Kingdom is the paramount Yoruba king of Ondo Kingdom a city in Ondo State, southwestern Nigeria. The \"Osemawe title\" was coined from the phrase \"Ese-omo-re\" adopted from the comment made by the late \"Alaafin Oluaso\" during the birth of his daughter called Olu pupupu who later settled in Ondo Kingdom. The people of Ondo Kingdom are generally called \"Ekimogun Egi\".\n\nThe Osemawe title of Ondo Kingdom was instituted in 1510, when princess Pupupu, a powerful daughter of the late Alaafin of Oyo, king Oluaso left the palace with the royal entourage in a bid to settle far from her father's palace.\nShe settled on a hill called \"Oke Agunla\" in Ondo town\nOn arrival of this princess at \"Oke Ogunla\" a smoke rising from far below was spotted by a man called \"Esiri\" who traced the smoke to know its source. On getting to the hill where the smoke was spotted, he met princess Pupupu and her royal entourage. He took them to a village in Ondo Kingdom called \"Oriden\". The villagers were very happy to meet the powerful princess and exclaimed Edo du do, edo do, idi edo!!! Where the name of the Kingdom Ondo Kingdom was formed.\n\nAbout 43 rulers had ruled with the title of \"Osemawe\" of Ondo Kingdom since the inception of the title.\n\nPrincess Olu Pupupu ascend the throne as the first \"Osemawe\" of the Ekimogun people of Ondo Kingdom and reign from 1516 to 1530.\nBefore her death, she gave birth two sons, the eldest was named \"Airo Pupupu\" and the younger one was named \"Luju Pupupu\". Airo Pupupu later ascend the throne after the demise of her mother in 1530. He reigned for 30 years, between 1530 and 1560.\nAfter the death of \"Airo Pupupu\" in 1560, \"Luju Pupupu\" the younger brother of \" Airo Pupupu\" ascended the throne in 1561 and reigned for 29 years, between 1561 and 1590.\nAfter the demise of \"Luju Pupupu\" in 1590, prince \" Okuta Airo Pupupu\" the son of \"Airo Pupupu\" succeeded his uncle, Luju Pupupu in 1590 and reigned for 24 years, between 1590 and 1614.\n\nAfter the demise of \"Okuta Airo Pupupu\", his brother, \"Luyare\" ascended the throne and reigned for 16 years, 1614 to 1630.\nAfter the demise of \"Luyare\" in 1630, Foyi (Awuro), a brave warrior and a descendant of \"Luju Pupupu\" ascended the throne and reigned for 19 years, between 1630 and 1649. \nThereafter, \"Leyo Luju Pupupu\", the last child of \"Luju Pupupu\" ascended the throne after the death of \" Foyi (Awuro)\" and reigned for 19 years, between 1649 and 1688.\nAfter the death of \"Leyo Luju Pupupu\" in 1668, prince \"Gbaji (Ogbode)\", the son of \"Okuta\" ascended the throne and reigned between 1668 and 1685.\nThereafter, \"Liyen\", the grandson of \"Luju Pupupu\" succeeded \"Gbaji (Ogbode)\" and reigned between 1685 and 1702.\n\nAfter the demise of \"Liyen\" in 1702, \"Bajumu\", a great warrior who was the son of \"Foyi\" ascended the throne. He engaged in a war with a neighboring town against the wish of the people and when he returned from the battle, he was rejected and was succeeded by \"Aperuwa (Olu-Okun)\", the son of \"Gbaji\" who reigned between 1711 and 1716.\nAfter his demise in 1716, he was succeeded by \"Gbedegbede\", a descendant of Leyo and only reigned for one year, between 1716 and 1717.\nFollowing the demise of \"Gbedegbede\" in 1717, \"Lamele\" succeeded him and reigned for 15 years before he died in 1731.\nIn 1731, \"Iganmude\" who was a grandson of \"Okuta\" ascended the throne following the demise of \"Lamele\". He created Sokoti and Losare quarters during his regime and later died in 1748.\n\"Olowolaiye\", a grandson of \"Okuta\" became the ruler following the death of Aganmude. He reigned for 11 years, from 1748 to 1759.\nFollowing the death of \"Aganmude\" in 1759, another grandson of \"Okuta\" called \"Jogunde\" ascended the throne. He reigned for 18 years, from 1759 to 1777.\nThereafter, Terere who was a grandson of \"Luju\" ascended the throne following the demise of \"Jogunde\" in 1777. He established the \"Eku festival\" in memory of \"Owu war\" before his death in 1786.\nHe was succeeded by his first son called \"Ajisowo\" who reigned between 1786 and 1802.\n\nFollowing the demise of \"Ajisowo\" in 1802, \"Arobiete\" who was a descendant of \"Foyi\" ascended the throne and reigned for 9 years.\nAfter the death of \"Arobieke\" in 1811 \"Iyanlola\" a son of \"Jogunde\" ascended the throne and reigned for 3 years, between 1811 and 1814.\nThereafter, \"Odunola\" also known as \"Ojagodolokun\", a descendant of \"Lamele\" ascended the throne in 1814 after the death of \"Iyanlola\". He reigned for 3 years, from 1814 to 1817. He was succeeded by his eldest son known as \"Jilu\". His name \"Jilu\" was coined from the fact that he enjoyed drumming. He reigned for 5 years.\nFollowing the demise of \"Jilu\" in 1826, he was succeeded by \"Olowolakun\" who ruled for 7 years, from 1826 to 1833.\n\nOba Rufus Adesokeji Aderele (Tewogboye 11), son of Oba Tewogboye 1 ascended the throne after the dethronement Oba Fidipote 11. He was an educated Oba, adequately experienced in the system of governance and reigned from 1942-1974. He is the father of his royal highness Prince Ademola Olugbade Aderele; who served Nigeria as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Federal Republic of Nigeria on various missions, including representing the Nigerian Government as its first Nigerian High Commissioner to Thailand.\n\n"}
{"id": "2230357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2230357", "title": "Poussinists and Rubenists", "text": "Poussinists and Rubenists\n\nIn 1671 an argument broke out in the French Royal Academy of Painting and Sculpture in Paris about whether drawing or color was more important in painting. On one side stood the Poussinists (Fr. \"Poussinistes\") who were a group of French artists, named after the painter Nicolas Poussin, who believed that drawing was the most important thing. On the other side were the Rubenists (Fr. \"Rubénistes\"), named after Peter Paul Rubens, who prioritize color. There was a strong nationalistic flavour to the debate as Poussin was French but Rubens was Flemish, though neither was alive at the time. After over forty years the final resolution of the matter in favor of the Rubenists was signalled when Antoine Watteau's \"The Embarkation for Cythera\" was accepted as his reception piece by the French Academy in 1717. By that time the French Rococo was in full swing.\n\nThe Poussinists believed in the Platonic idea of the existence in the mind of ideal objects that could be reconstructed in concrete form by the selection, using reason, of elements from nature. For the Poussinists, therefore, color was a purely decorative addition to form and drawing (design or \"disegno\"), the use of line to depict form, was the essential skill of painting. Their leader was Charles Lebrun (died 1690), Director of the Academy, and their heroes were Raphael, the Carracci, and Poussin himself whose severe and stoical works exemplified their philosophy. Their touchstones were the forms of classical art.\n\nThey were opposed by the Rubenists who believed that colour, not drawing, was superior as it was more true to nature. Their models were the works of Rubens who had prioritised the accurate depiction of nature over the imitation of classical art. The Rubenists argued that the aim of painting was to deceive the eye by creating an imitation of nature. Drawing, according to the Rubenists, although based on reason, appealed only to a few experts whereas colour could be enjoyed by everyone. The ideas of the Rubenists therefore had revolutionary political connotations as they elevated the position of the lay person and challenged the idea that had held sway since the Renaissance that painting, as a liberal art, could only be appreciated by the educated mind.\n\nIn 1672, Charles Le Brun, Chancellor of the French Academy, attempted to halt the argument by stating officially that \"the function of colour is to satisfy the eyes, whereas drawing satisfies the mind.\" He failed, and the debate was continued in the pamphlets of Roger de Piles, who favoured the colourists and set out the arguments in his 1673 \"Dialogue sur le Coloris\" (Dialogue on Colour), and his 1677 \"Conversations sur la Peinture\" (Conversations on Painting).\n\nThe argument was similar to the argument over the merits of \"disegno\" and \"colore\" in Italy in the fifteenth century but with a particularly French character as the importance of drawing was one of the key tenets of the French Academy and any attack on it was effectively an attack on everything the Academy stood for, including its political functions in support of the King.\nTo a certain extent, the debate was simply about whether it was acceptable to paint purely in order to give pleasure to the viewer without the nobler purposes typical of a \"history\" painting.\n\nA success for the Rubenists was achieved when Roger de Piles was elected a member (as an amateur) of the French Academy in 1699 and the final signal that the Rubenists had won came when Antoine Watteau's \"The Embarkation for Cythera\" was accepted as his reception piece by the Academy in 1717.\n\nWatteau's acceptance was, however, perhaps not everything that he could have hoped for. When he applied to join the Academy, there was no suitable category for his \"fête galante\" works, so the academy simply created one rather than reject his application, describing him as a \"peintre des festes galantes\". While this acknowledged Watteau as the originator of that genre, and was a significant mark of acceptance both of him and his style of painting, it also prevented him being recognised as a history painter, the highest class of painter, and the only one from which the academy's professors were drawn. Charles-Antoine Coypel, the son of its then director, tellingly said: \"The charming paintings of this gracious painter would be a bad guide for whoever wished to paint the Acts of the Apostles.\"\n\nWatteau is considered the greatest of the Rubenist artists. Other important Rubenists include François Boucher and Jean-Honoré Fragonard. Jean-Baptiste-Siméon Chardin benefited from the new found interest in still-life and genre painting.\n\nThe debate and the overlapping development of the Rococo in eighteenth century France have been seen as a form of revival. Michael Levey has pointed out that it was during the seventeenth century that the new categories of genre, landscape and still life had become established with their emphasis on the observation of nature, and therefore the arguments of the Rubenists amounted to a revival of existing traditions of naturalism and a call for a greater discipline in painting rather than representing an attitude of general licence or \"laissez faire\" as is sometimes assumed.\n\nThe argument also took place during the beginning of the Enlightenment and the Rubenists found support in John Locke's \"Essay Concerning Human Understanding\" (1690) which argued that all ideas derived from experience and that none were innate. Jean-Baptiste Dubos observed that what was comprehended through the mind paled compared to what was apprehended through the senses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52691772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52691772", "title": "Rachel Maines", "text": "Rachel Maines\n\nRachel P. Maines (born July 8, 1950) is an American scholar specializing in the history of technology. Since 2015 she has been a Visiting Scientist at Cornell University's School of Electrical and Computer Engineering. Her 1998 book \"The Technology of Orgasm\" won the American Historical Association's Herbert Feis Award. The book was also the inspiration for the film \"Hysteria\" and the play \"In the Next Room\".\n\nMaines was born in Brookline, Massachusetts and received her BA in classics with a specialization in ancient science and technology from the University of Pittsburgh in 1971. She received her PhD in applied history and social science from Carnegie Mellon University in 1983 with a doctoral dissertation entitled \"Textiles for Defense: Emergency Policy for Textiles and Apparel in the Twentieth Century\". Much of her early scholarship centered on the history of textiles and needlework. She was one of the founders of the Center for the History of American Needlework in Pittsburgh. \n\nShe is married to Garrel S. Pottinger, PhD, a retired professor of Philosophy, with whom she has written several books. They have a daughter, Rachel Amanda Pottinger of Acme, Washington.\n\nWhile researching needlework in late 19th- and early 20th-century women's magazines, Maines encountered what she would argue were highly circumspect advertisements for vibrators. The advertisements, she claimed, showed women using the electrical devices to massage their necks and backs but the accompanying text described the devices as \"thrilling, invigorating\" and promised that \"all the penetrating pleasures of youth will throb in you again\". Maines recalled in a 1999 interview, \"I kept thinking to myself, this can't be what I think it is.\" \n\nShe then began researching and writing articles on the history of vibrators, the first one for the newsletter of the Bakken Museum of Electricity in Life. According to Maines, the article caused her to lose her post as associate professor at Clarkson University in 1986 because the university was convinced that the nature of her research would drive away benefactors and alumni donors. Three years later she submitted a more detailed article, \"Socially Camouflaged Technologies: The Case of the Electromechanical Vibrator\", to \"Society and Technology\", the magazine of the IEEE Society on Social Implications of Technology. Initially, the IEEE thought the article was a joke perpetrated by the magazine's editors and that there was no such person as Rachel Maines. However, after checking all the internal citations and Maines's own background, the IEEE finally allowed the article to be published in the June 1989 edition of the magazine. Her book-length treatment of the subject, \"The Technology of Orgasm\", was published in 1998 by Johns Hopkins University Press. Subtitled \"\"Hysteria,\" the Vibrator, and Women's Sexual Satisfaction\", it won the American Historical Association's Herbert Feis Award and was the inspiration for Sarah Ruhl's 2009 play \"In the Next Room\" and Tanya Wexler's 2011 film \"Hysteria\". The book also formed the basis for \"Passion & Power\", a 2007 documentary by Emiko Omori and Wendy Slick. \n\nMany of Maines' claims in \"The Technology of Orgasm\", however, have since been challenged. For example, by classicist Helen King and researchers at the Wellcome Collection. In 2012, King's article on Maines' misuse of classical material was awarded the Barbara McManus Prize of the Women's Classical Caucus. \n\nA central claim in Maines's book, that Victorian physicians routinely used electromechanical vibrators to stimulate female patients to orgasm as a treatment for hysteria, was challenged by Hallie Lieberman and Eric Schatzberg of Georgia Institute of Technology, who failed to find references to this practice in Maines's sources.\n\nMaines's next book, \"Asbestos and Fire: Technological Trade-offs and the Body at Risk\", was published by Rutgers University Press in 2005. She returned to the subject of needlework and textiles in \"Hedonizing Technologies\" published by Johns Hopkins University Press in 2009. The book traces the evolution of fiber arts from an industry to a hobby. Since 2015 Maines has been a Visiting Scientist at Cornell University's School of Electrical and Computer Engineering.\n\n"}
{"id": "2868194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2868194", "title": "Salvador Brau", "text": "Salvador Brau\n\nSalvador Brau y Asencio (January 11, 1842 – November 5, 1912) was a Puerto Rican journalist, poet, dramatist, novelist, historian, and sociologist. He was designated the official historian of Puerto Rico by the first American-appointed governor of the island.\n\nBrau was born in Cabo Rojo, Puerto Rico into a well-to-do family. His father was Bartolomé Brau, a Catalan teacher, and his mother was Luisa Asencio, a native of Venezuela. Brau received his primary and secondary education in private schools. Forced to work to care for his family after the death of his father about 1855, he began to teach himself. By the age of 16, he was composing various literary works and with his friends started a theatrical society. He wished to continue his education in an institute of higher learning and thus went to Spain in 1861 where he attended the University of Barcelona, earning a degree in Letters. During his stay in the mother country, he came into contact with the autonomist movement of Puerto Rico and became involved. Eventually, Brau earned his Doctorate in Letters.\n\nIn 1870, Brau returned to Puerto Rico and became a journalist. He joined the Autonomist Party of Puerto Rico and became politically active, believing that Puerto Rico should be granted more powers by the Spanish Crown. He expressed his beliefs in his novels and plays, including one of his most acclaimed plays, \"La Vuelta al Hogar\" (Once on This Island).\n\nIn 1894, Brau was named Commissioner for the Provincial Deputation. He then moved back to Spain where he investigated the historical documents pertaining to Puerto Rico's past. These documents were stored and continue to be stored in the Indias Archives of Seville. In 1897, after three years of investigating the historical documents, Brau returned to Puerto Rico.\n\nHis findings in Seville included documents written by Fray Antonio de Montesinos, Fray Íñigo Abad y Lasierra and others. He uncovered important information about how the Taínos lived and how they were treated harshly by the Spanish settlers. During his investigation he found an interesting reference to the Puerto Rican danza. According to a document written by Fray Íñigo Abad y Lasierra, Bishop of Puerto Rico (1772–1778), there was a typical, fast and noisy shoe-stomping dance in the island which he called \"Puerto Rican danza\". Brau, however, claims that the authentic Puerto Rican danza was a popular creation that emerged in the 19th century.\n\nIn 1898, Puerto Rico became a colonial possession of the United States after the Spanish–American War in accordance with the Treaty of Paris. Brau continued to be politically active and in 1903 was named Official Historian of Puerto Rico by the American-appointed governor William Henry Hunt. He held this position until his death on November 5, 1912 in San Juan, Puerto Rico. He was interred in Santa María Magdalena de Pazzis Cemetery in Old San Juan.\n\nA partial list of Braus written works:\n\nThe town of San Juan honored him with a park and a statue. The town of Cabo Rojo has honored his memory with a monument and by naming a hall in its amphitheater after him. The town of Aguada has a bust of Brau in its plaza. Brau was one of the few Puerto Ricans to be honored by the United States Maritime Commission when during World War II the Liberty ship was built in Panama City, Florida, and named in his honor.\n\n"}
{"id": "51491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51491", "title": "Samarkand", "text": "Samarkand\n\nSamarkand (; Uzbek language: '; ; ), alternatively Samarqand, is a city in modern-day Uzbekistan, and is one of the oldest continuously inhabited cities in Central Asia. There is evidence of human activity in the area of the city from the late Paleolithic era, though there is no direct evidence of when exactly Samarkand was founded; some theories propose that it was founded between the 8th and 7th centuries BC. Prospering from its location on the Silk Road between China and the Mediterranean, at times Samarkand was one of the greatest cities of Central Asia.\n\nBy the time of the Achaemenid Empire of Persia, it was the capital of the Sogdian satrapy. The city was taken by Alexander the Great in 329 BC, when it was known by its Greek name of Marakanda. The city was ruled by a succession of Iranian and Turkic rulers until the Mongols under Genghis Khan conquered Samarkand in 1220. Today, Samarkand is the capital of Samarqand Region and Uzbekistan's second largest city.\n\nThe city is noted for being an Islamic centre for scholarly study. In the 14th century it became the capital of the empire of Timur (Tamerlane) and is the site of his mausoleum (the Gur-e Amir). The Bibi-Khanym Mosque (a modern replica) remains one of the city's most notable landmarks. The Registan was the ancient center of the city. The city has carefully preserved the traditions of ancient crafts: embroidery, gold embroidery, silk weaving, engraving on copper, ceramics, carving and painting on wood. In 2001, UNESCO added the city to its World Heritage List as \"Samarkand – Crossroads of Cultures\".\n\nModern-day Samarkand is divided into two parts: the old and new city. The old city includes historical monuments, shops, and old private houses, while the new city includes administrative buildings along with cultural centers and educational institutions.\nThe name originates in the Sogdian samar, \"stone, rock\", and kand, \"fort, town\".\n\nAlong with Bukhara, Samarkand is one of the oldest inhabited cities in Central Asia, prospering from its location on the trade route between China and the Mediterranean (Silk Road).\n\nArcheological excavations held within the city limits (Syob and midtown) as well as suburban areas (Hojamazgil, Sazag'on) unearthed forty-thousand-year-old evidence of human activity, dating back to the Late Paleolithic era. A group of Mesolithic era (12th–7th millennium BC) archeological sites were discovered at Sazag'on-1, Zamichatosh and Okhalik (suburbs of the city). The Syob and Darg'om canals, supplying the city and its suburbs with water, appeared around the 7th to 5th centuries BC (early Iron Age). There is no direct evidence when Samarkand was founded. Researchers of the Institute of Archeology of Samarkand argue for the existence of the city between the 8th and 7th centuries BC.\n\nSamarkand has been one of the main centres of Sogdian civilization from its early days. By the time of the Achaemenid dynasty of Persia it had become the capital of the Sogdian satrapy.\n\nAlexander the Great conquered Samarkand in 329 BC. The city was known as Maracanda by the Greeks. Written sources offer small clues as to the subsequent system of government. They tell of an Orepius who became ruler \"not from ancestors, but as a gift of Alexander\".\n\nWhile Samarkand suffered significant damage during Alexander's initial conquest, the city recovered rapidly and flourished under the new Hellenic influence. There were also major new construction techniques; oblong bricks were replaced with square ones and superior methods of masonry and plastering were introduced.\n\nAlexander's conquests introduced classical Greek culture into Central Asia; for a time, Greek aesthetics heavily influenced local artisans. This Hellenistic legacy continued as the city became part of various successor states in the centuries following Alexander's death, i.e. the Seleucid Empire, Greco-Bactrian Kingdom and Kushan Empire (even though the Kushana themselves originated in Central Asia). After the Kushan state lost control of Sogdia, during the 3rd century AD, Samarkand went into decline as a centre of economic, cultural and political power. It did not significantly revive until the 5th century AD.\n\nSamarkand was conquered by the Persian Sassanians around 260 AD. Under Sassanian rule, the region became an essential site for Manichaeism, and facilitated the dissemination of the religion throughout Central Asia.\n\nAfter the Hephtalites (Huns) conquered Samarkand, they controlled it until the Göktürks, in an alliance with the Sassanid Persians, won it at the Battle of Bukhara. The Turks ruled over Samarkand until they were defeated by the Sassanids during the Göktürk–Persian Wars.\nAfter the Arab conquest of Iran, the Turks conquered Samarkand and held it until the Turkic khaganate collapsed due to wars with the Chinese Tang Dynasty. During this time the city became a protectorate and paid tribute to the ruling Tang. The armies of the Umayyad Caliphate under Qutayba ibn Muslim captured the city in around 710 from Turks.\n\nDuring this period, Samarkand was a diverse religious community and was home to a number of religions, including Zoroastrianism, Buddhism,Hinduism, Manichaeism, Judaism and Nestorian Christianity. However, after the Arab conquest of Sogdiana, Islam became the dominant religion, with much of the population converting.\n\nLegend has it that during Abbasid rule, the secret of papermaking was obtained from two Chinese prisoners from the Battle of Talas in 751, which led to the foundation of the first paper mill of the Islamic world in Samarkand. The invention then spread to the rest of the Islamic world, and from there to Europe.\n\nAbbasid control of Samarkand soon dissipated and was replaced with that of the Samanids (862–999), though it must be noted that the Samanids were still nominal vassals of the Caliph during their control of Samarkand. Under Samanid rule the city became one of the capitals of the Samanid dynasty and an even more important link amongst numerous trade routes. The Samanids were overthrown by the Karakhanids around 1000. During the next two hundred years, Samarkand would be ruled by a succession of Turkic tribes, including the Seljuqs and the Khwarazm-Shahs.\n\nThe 10th-century Iranian author Istakhri, who travelled in Transoxiana, provides a vivid description of the natural riches of the region he calls \"Smarkandian Sogd\":\n\nI know no place in it or in Samarkand itself where if one ascends some elevated ground one does not see greenery and a pleasant place, and nowhere near it are mountains lacking in trees or a dusty steppe... Samakandian Sogd... [extends] eight days travel through unbroken greenery and gardens... . The greenery of the trees and sown land extends along both sides of the river [Sogd]... and beyond these fields is pasture for flocks. Every town and settlement has a fortress... It is the most fruitful of all the countries of Allah; in it are the best trees and fruits, in every home are gardens, cisterns and flowing water.\n\nThe Mongols conquered Samarkand in 1220. Although Genghis Khan \"did not disturb the inhabitants [of the city] in any way\", according to Juvaini he killed all who took refuge in the citadel and the mosque, pillaged the city completely and conscripted 30,000 young men along with 30,000 craftsmen. Samarkand suffered at least one other Mongol sack by Khan Baraq to get treasure he needed to pay an army. It remained part of the Chagatai Khanate (one of four Mongol successor realms) until 1370.\n\n\"The Travels\" of Marco Polo, where Polo records his journey along the Silk Road, describes Samarkand as \"a very large and splendid city...\"\n\nThe Yenisei area had a community of weavers of Chinese origin and Samarkand and Outer Mongolia both had artisans of Chinese origin seen by Changchun. After the Mongol conquest of Central Asia by Genghis Khan, foreigners were chosen as administrators and co-management with Chinese and Qara-Khitays (Khitans) of gardens and fields in Samarqand was put upon the Muslims as a requirement since Muslims were not allowed to manage without them.\n\nThe khanate allowed the establishment of Christian bishoprics (see below).\n\nIbn Battuta visited in 1333, and called the city \"one of the greatest and finest of cities, and most perfect of them in beauty.\" He also noted the orchards were supplied water via \"norias\".\n\nIn 1365, a revolt against Chagatai Mongol control occurred in Samarkand.\n\nIn 1370 the conqueror Timur (Tamerlane), the founder and ruler of the Timurid Empire, made Samarkand his capital. During the next 35 years, he rebuilt most of the city and populated it with the great artisans and craftsmen from across the empire. Timur gained a reputation as a patron of the arts and Samarkand grew to become the centre of the region of Transoxiana. Timur's commitment to the arts is evident in the way he was ruthless with his enemies but merciful towards those with special artistic abilities, sparing the lives of artists, craftsmen and architects so that he could bring them to improve and beautify his capital. He was also directly involved in his construction projects and his visions often exceeded the technical abilities of his workers. Furthermore, the city was in a state of constant construction and Timur would often request buildings to be done and redone quickly if he was unsatisfied with the results. Timur made it so that the city could only be reached by roads and also ordered the construction of deep ditches and walls, that would run five miles () in circumference, separating the city from the rest of its surrounding neighbors. During this time the city had a population of about 150,000. This great period of reconstruction is encapsulated in the account of Henry III's ambassador, Ruy Gonzalez de Clavijo, who was stationed there between 1403 and 1406. During his stay the city was typically in a constant state of construction. \"The Mosque which Timur had caused to be built in memory of the mother of his wife...seemed to us the noblest of all those we visited in the city of Samarkand, but no sooner had it been completed than he begun to find fault with its entrance gateway, which he now said was much too low and must forthwith be pulled down.\"\n\nBetween 1424 and 1429, the great astronomer Ulugh Beg built the Samarkand Observatory. The sextant was 11 metres long and once rose to the top of the surrounding three-storey structure, although it was kept underground to protect it from earthquakes. Calibrated along its length, it was the world's largest 90-degree quadrant at the time. However, the observatory was destroyed by religious fanatics in 1449.\n\nIn 1500 the Uzbek nomadic warriors took control of Samarkand. The Shaybanids emerged as the Uzbek leaders at or about this time.\n\nIn the second quarter of the 16th century, the Shaybanids moved their capital to Bukhara and Samarkand went into decline. After an assault by the Afshar shahinshah Nader Shah the city was abandoned in the 18th century, about 1720 or a few years later.\n\nFrom 1599 to 1756, Samarkand was ruled by the Ashtrakhanid branch of the Khanate of Bukhara.\n\nFrom 1756 to 1868, Samarkand was ruled by the Manghud (Mongol) Emirs of Bukhara.\n\nThe city came under imperial Russian rule after the citadel had been taken by a force under Colonel Konstantin Petrovich von Kaufman in 1868. Shortly thereafter the small Russian garrison of 500 men were themselves besieged. The assault, which was led by Abdul Malik Tura, the rebellious elder son of the Bukharan Emir, as well as Baba Beg of Shahrisabz and Jura Beg of Kitab, was repelled with heavy losses. Alexander Abramov became the first Governor of the Military Okrug, which the Russians established along the course of the Zeravshan River, with Samarkand as the administrative centre. The Russian section of the city was built after this point, largely to the west of the old city.\n\nIn 1886, the city became the capital of the newly formed Samarkand Oblast of Russian Turkestan and grew in importance still further when the Trans-Caspian railway reached the city in 1888.\nIt became the capital of the Uzbek SSR in 1925, before being replaced by Tashkent in 1930. During World War II, after Nazi Germany invaded the Soviet Union, a number of citizens of Samarqand were sent to the land of Smolensk, to fight the enemy. Many were taken captive or killed by the Nazis.\n\nSamarkand is located in north-eastern Uzbekistan, in the Zarefshan River valley. Qarshi is located 135 km away. Road M37 connects it to Bukhara, 240 km away. Road M39 connects it to Tashkent, 270 km away. The Tajikistan border is about 35 km from Samarkand, the road leading to Dushanbe which is 210 km away. Road M39 connects it to Mazar-i-Sharif in Afghanistan, which is 340 km away.\n\nSamarkand features a Mediterranean climate (Köppen climate classification \"Csa\") that closely borders on a semi-arid climate (\"BSk\") with hot, dry summers and relatively wet, variable winters that alternate periods of warm weather with periods of cold weather. July and August are the hottest months of the year with temperatures reaching, and exceeding, . Most of the sparse precipitation is received from December through April. January 2008 was particularly cold, and the temperature dropped to \n\nAccording to various independent sources, Tajiks (Persian-speaking people) are the major ethnic group in the city, while ethnic Uzbeks form a growing minority. Exact figures are difficult to evaluate, since many people in Uzbekistan either identify as \"Uzbek\" even though they speak Tajik as their first language, or because they are registered as Uzbeks by the central government despite their Tajik language and identity. As explained by Paul Bergne:\nDuring the census of 1926 a significant part of the Tajik population was registered as Uzbek. Thus, for example, in the 1920 census in Samarkand city the Tajiks were recorded as numbering 44,758 and the Uzbeks only 3301. According to the 1926 census, the number of Uzbeks was recorded as 43,364 and the Tajiks as only 10,716. In a series of kishlaks [villages] in the Khojand Okrug, whose population was registered as Tajik in 1920 e.g. in Asht, Kalacha, Akjar i Tajik and others, in the 1926 census they were registered as Uzbeks. Similar facts can be adduced also with regard to Ferghana, Samarkand, and especially the Bukhara oblasts.\n\nHistorically, Samarkand was a diverse religious community. Before the 8th century Hinduism was mainly influenced in this area for centuries. Since the 8th century, when the Arabs entered Central Asia, Islam has become the main religion. According to some sources, approximately 90% of people are muslims and Christianity and Judaism are minor religions.\nSince the advent of Islam, many mosques, madrasas and mausoleum have been built and all of these make the city very attractive for tourists to visit. Many of these monuments were built during 14th–15th centuries by Tamerlane including the Registan Mosque and madrasas, the Bibi-Khanum Mosque, the Shakhi-Zinda compound and the Gur-Emir ensemble, as well as Ulugh-Beg's Observatory.\n\nEven though 90% of the population of Uzbekistan are Sunni Muslim, Islam is not followed strictly. Visitors state that in style of dress and attitude to religion people of Samarkand are becoming more westernized rather than keeping their ancestors' tradition and culture. In spite of following Islam, many Sunni Muslims in Samarkand drink alcohol especially during weddings, holidays and birthdays. In addition, there are 14 small Wine manufacturers in Uzbekistan, with one of the oldest and famous being in Samarkand. People have a habit of drinking vodka to celebrate good days with their relatives, friends, and neighbors.\n\nThere are many Shia towns in the Samarkand general area, where Shia Muslims are composed almost entirely of the deported Mervis; the old, approximately 100,000 strong population of Merv city and oasis (now in Turkmenistan) who were deported en masse by the Manghit king Shah Murad Beg in the course of the 1780s to the Zarafshan basin. They are known locally and identified by the Soviet censuses as the \"Irani\". They have their own mosques and mausoleums.\n\nChristians include: Russians, Koreans, Ukrainians and Armenians. Only a few churches hold services.\n\nSamarkand, the ancient capital of Sogdiana, was an early Metropolitan Archbishopric of Nestorianism. As a crossroads for caravans between China, Persia and the Crimea, it was religiously tolerant. Even the Mongol Chagatai Khanate was. Marco Polo claims that Samarkand's founder (one of four successors to Genghis Khan) converted to Christianity; in any event his descendant and successor Algigidai (Eljigidey), ruling from 1327, allowed the Dominican Order to preach Catholicism and build a church in Samarkand dedicated to John the Baptist and wrote twice to Pope John XXII, who sent him two Dominican 'ambassadors'. In addition to Nestorians, there were Greek Melkite and Orthodox Christians, but now also a Latin Catholic community, which on 13 August 1329 became the Diocese of Samarcanda / Semiscanten(sis) (Latin), as a suffragan of the Metropolitan Archdiocese of Soltaniyeh which had been established in 1318 by papal bull \"Redemptor noster\" from the same pope. The Archdiocese was also entrusted to the Dominicans and was meant to become an ecclesiastical province covering the Mongol khanates. By 1400 it had been suppressed, after the demise of the tolerant khanate, having had two recorded incumbents:\n\n\nTimur initiated the building of Bibi Khanum after his campaign in India in 1398–1399. Before its reconstruction after an earthquake in 1897, Bibi Khanum had around 450 marble columns that were established with the help of 95 elephants that Timur had brought back from Hindustan. Also from India, artisans and stonemasons designed the mosque's dome, giving it its distinctiveness amongst the other buildings.\n\nThe best-known structure in Samarkand is the mausoleum known as Gur-i Amir. It exhibits many cultures and influences from past civilizations, neighboring peoples, and especially those of Islam. Despite how much devastation the Mongols caused in the past to all of the Islamic architecture that had existed in the city prior to Timur's succession, much of the destroyed Islamic influences were revived, recreated, and restored under Timur. The blueprint and layout of the mosque itself follows the Islamic passion of geometry and other elements of the structure had been precisely measured. The entrance to the Gur-i Amir is decorated with Arabic calligraphy and inscriptions, the latter being a common feature in Islamic architecture. The attention to detail and meticulous nature of Timur is especially obvious when looking inside the building. Inside, the walls have been covered in tiles through a technique, originally developed in Iran, called \"mosaic faience,\" a process where each tile is cut, colored, and fit into place individually. The tiles were also arranged in a specific way that would engrave words relating to the city's religiosity; words like \"Muhammad\" and \"Allah\" have been spelled out on the walls using the tiles.\n\nThe ornaments and decorations of the walls include floral and vegetal symbols which are used to signify gardens. Gardens are commonly interpreted as paradise in the Islamic religion and they were both inscribed in tomb walls and grown in the city itself. In the city of Samarkand, there were two major gardens, the New Garden and the Garden of Heart's Delight, and these became the central areas of entertainment for ambassadors and important guests. A friend of Genghis Khan in 1218 named Yelü Chucai, reported that Samarkand was the most beautiful city of all where \"it was surrounded by numerous gardens. Every household had a garden, and all the gardens were well designed, with canals and water fountains that supplied water to round or square-shaped ponds. The landscape included rows of willows and cypress trees, and peach and plum orchards were shoulder to shoulder.\" The floors of the mausoleum are entirely covered with uninterrupted patterns of tiles of flowers, emphasizing the presence of Islam and Islamic art in the city. In addition, Persian carpets with floral printings have been found in some of the Timurid buildings.\n\nTurko-Mongol influence is also apparent in the architecture of the buildings in Samarkand. For instance, nomads previously used \"yurts\", traditional Mongol tents, to display the bodies of the dead before they were to engage in proper burial procedures. Similarly, it is believed that the melon-shaped domes of the tomb chambers are imitations of those yurts. Timur naturally used stronger materials, like bricks and wood, to establish these tents, but their purposes remain largely unchanged.\n\nThe elements of traditional Islamic architecture can be seen in traditional Uzbek houses that are built around central courtyards with gardens. The houses are built from mud brick and most have painted wooden ceilings and wall decorations. Houses in the west of the city are indicative of European style homes built in 19th and 20th centuries.\n\nThe color of the buildings in Samarkand also has significant meaning behind it. For instance, blue is the most common and dominant color that will be found on the buildings, which was used by Timur in order to symbolize a large range of ideas. For one, the blue shades seen in the Gur-i Amir are colors of mourning. Blue was the color of mourning in Central Asia at the time, as it is in many cultures even today, so its dominance in the city's mausoleum appears only logical. In addition, blue was also seen as the color that would ward off \"the evil eye\" in Central Asia and the notion is evident in the number of doors in and around the city that were colored blue during this time. Furthermore, blue was representative of water, which was a particularly rare resource around the Middle East and Central Asia; coloring the walls blue symbolized the wealth of the city.\n\nGold also has a strong presence in the city. Timur's fascination with vaulting explains the excessive use of gold in the Gur-i Amir as well as the use of embroidered gold fabric in both the city and his buildings. The Mongols had great interests in Chinese- and Persian-style golden silk textiles as well as nasij woven in Iran and Transoxiana. Past Mongol leaders, like Ogodei, built textile workshops in their cities in order to be able to produce gold fabrics themselves.\n\nThere is evidence that Timur tried to preserve his Mongol roots. In the chamber in which his body was laid, \"tuqs\" were found – those are poles with horses' tails hanging at the top, which was symbolic of an ancient Turkic tradition where horses, which were valuable commodities, were sacrificed in order to honor the dead, and a cavalry standard type shared by many nomads, up to the Ottoman Turks.\n\nHistorically, Samarkand has been one of the major trading points of Central Asia. In May 1888, a railroad bridge connecting the Amu Darya River and Samarkand placed Samarkand as one of the stops on the Trans-Caspian Railway.\n\nSince its opening, Samarkand Railway Station has undergone several reconstructions, and it is presently set up for domestic and international traveling. The recent addition of the high-speed Afrosiab train traveling from the old capital of Samarkand to the new capital of Tashkent promoted a tighter relationship between the two cities.\n\nThe city's first tram line was launched in April 2017. The construction of the second tram line was completed in 2018. The newly constructed line is 5.1 km-long, and it is expected to run eight trams at seven-minute headways between the railway station and the Siyob Bazaar.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13818844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13818844", "title": "Simon Hornblower", "text": "Simon Hornblower\n\nSimon Hornblower, FBA (born 1949) is an English classicist and academic. He is Professor of Classics and Ancient History in the University of Oxford and Senior Research Fellow of All Souls College, Oxford.\n\nBorn in 1949, he was educated at Eton College, where he was a King's Scholar, at Jesus College, Cambridge, where he took a first-class in Part I of the Classical Tripos in 1969, and at Balliol College, Oxford, where he took first-class honours in \"Literae Humaniores\" in 1971 (BA and hence subsequently MA) and a DPhil in 1978 with a thesis entitled \"Maussollos of Karia\".\n\nIn 1971, he was elected to a Prize Fellowship of All Souls College, which he held until 1977. Then from 1978 until 1997, he was University Lecturer in Ancient History in the University of Oxford and Fellow and Tutor in Classics at Oriel College, Oxford, including one year, 1994/95, in which he was a member of the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, New Jersey. He moved to University College London, where in 1998 he was appointed Professor of Classics and Ancient History. In 2006 he was promoted with the title Grote Professor of Ancient History, retaining the title Professor of Classics.\n\nHe was elected a Fellow of the British Academy in 2004.\n\nHornblower was elected Senior Research Fellow of All Souls College, Oxford, taking up his appointment in Michaelmas Term 2010. At the same time, the Recognition of Distinction Committee conferred upon him the title Professor of Classics and Ancient History.\n\nHis current interest is classical Greek historiography (especially Herodotus and Thucydides) and the relation between historical texts as literature and as history. He has published an historical and literary commentary on Thucydides in three volumes (Oxford University Press, 1991, 1996, 2008). His latest sole-authored book is \"Thucydides and Pindar: Historical Narrative and the World of Epinikian Poetry\" (Oxford University Press, 2004). He is also co-editor, with Professor Catherine Morgan of King's College London, of \"Pindar's Poetry, Patrons, and Festivals: From Archaic Greece to the Roman Empire\" (OUP, 2007), a collection of papers by experts on historical, literary, archaeological and anthropological aspects of Pindar and his world.\n\nSince 1979, he has been involved with the \"Lexicon of Greek Personal Names\" and co-edited \"Greek Personal Names: Their Value as Evidence\" (Oxford University Press, 2000), a role in which he co-operated closely with Elaine Matthews.\n\nIn 1996, he co-edited the third edition of the \"Oxford Classical Dictionary\". In 2012, he edited the fourth and most recent edition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19341074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19341074", "title": "Sureq Galigo", "text": "Sureq Galigo\n\nSureq Galigo or La Galigo is an epic creation myth of the Bugis from South Sulawesi, written down in manuscript form between the 18th and 20th century in the Indonesian language Bugis, based on an earlier oral tradition. It has become known to a wider audience mostly through the theatrical adaptation \"I La Galigo\" by Robert Wilson.\n\nThe poem is composed in pentameters and relates the story of humanity's origins but serves also as practical everyday almanac. It evolved mostly through oral tradition and is still sung on important occasions. The earliest preserved written versions date back to the 18th century, earlier ones have been lost due to insects, climate or destruction. Consequently, there is no complete or definite version of \"Galigo\" but the preserved parts amount to 6,000 pages or 300,000 lines of text, making it one of the largest works of literature. The original Buginese, in which also the production is sung, is now only understood by fewer than 100 people but so far only parts of it have been translated into Indonesian and no complete English language version exists either. The majority of La Galigo manuscripts still extant can be found in Indonesia and the Netherlands. Leiden University Library keeps one of the most valuable manuscripts. The Leiden manuscript consists of twelve volumes and relates the first part of the long Buginese epic. This largest coherent La Galigo fragment in the world was written in Makassar at the request of the theologian and scholar B.F. Matthes (1818–1908). In 1847 Matthes entered the service of the Netherlands Bible Society to study Buginese and Makassarese with the purpose of translation the Bible in those languages.\n\nThe text was written by Colliq Pujié (Arung Pancana Toa), Queen-mother of Tanete, a small kingdom in South Sulawesi. The manuscript is now part of the collection Indonesian manuscripts of the Netherlands Bible Society, given on permanent loan to the Leiden University Library since the years 1905-1915. In 2012, together with another La Galigo manuscript, held in Makassar, the Leiden manuscript is now included in UNESCO's Memory of the World (MOW) Register as the second document from Indonesia after Negarakertagama in 2008 to earn the acknowledgement. In 2017, the Leiden manuscript has been made digitally available.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4873690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4873690", "title": "The Giant of Marathon", "text": "The Giant of Marathon\n\nThe Giant of Marathon () is a 1959 international co-production sword and sandal film, loosely based on the Battle of Marathon. It was directed by Jacques Tourneur and Mario Bava. It starred Steve Reeves as Phillipides. The film was a co-production between Italy's Titanus and Galatea Film and France's Lux Compagnie Cinematographique de France and Societe Cinematographique Lyre.\n\nThe story is set in 490 BC, the time of the Medic Wars, during which Persian armies sweep through the Ancient world. Having brought home to Athens the Olympic victor's laurel crown, Phillippides becomes commander of the Sacred Guard, which is expected to defend the city-state's liberty, a year after the expulsion of the tyrant Hippias.\n\nAthenian supporters of Hippias conspire, hoping to sideline Phillippides with a marriage to Theocrites' expensive servant Charis, and thus neutralize the guard. She fails to seduce him, as his heart is already taken by a young girl before he learns her name is Andromeda, daughter of Creuso.\n\nEverything personal is likely to be put on hold when the news breaks that the vast army of Darius, the Persian King of Kings, is marching on Greece, hoping that its internal division will make its conquest a walk-over. Theocrites instructs Miltiades to hold back the Sacred Guard to defend the temple of Pallas after a likely defeat, and proposes instead to negotiate terms with Darius, but is told an alliance with Sparta could save the Hellenic nation.\n\nPhillippides makes the journey and survives an attempt on his life by conspirators; he returns with Sparta's engagement during the Persian attack in far greater numbers on Militiades valiant troops. Charis, left for dead after overhearing Darius's orders, reaches the camp to tell that the Persian fleet, now commanded by the traitor Theocrites, is heading for the Piraeus to take Athens. Miltiades sends Phillippides ahead to hold out with the Sacred Guard until his hopefully victorious troops arrive, and after his perilous journey back they successfully beat back the Persians.\n\n\n\"The Giant of Marathon\" was shot on location in Italy. Ten days before the premiere, director Mario Bava was forced to reshoot exterior scenes because several extras were spotted smoking cigarettes on camera.\n\nIn Italy, the film was released on 3 December 1959. The film was dubbed into English for its North American release. This release included several underwater scenes of the sacred guard planting spikes in coral and fighting alongside Persian ships. The film opened in Los Angeles on 20 May 1960 and in New York on 25 May 1960. The film was released in the US as \"Giant of Marathon\" and everywhere else as \"Battle of Marathon\".\n\nThe film was very successful at the box office: according to MGM records the film earned $1,335,000 in the US and Canada and $1.4 million elsewhere resulting in a profit of $429,000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44634486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44634486", "title": "The Great Binge", "text": "The Great Binge\n\nThe Great Binge is a 21st Century neologism, coined by amateur historian Gradus Protus van den Belt, describing the period in history covering roughly 1870 to 1914. It is so known because of the widespread use and availability of narcotics such as opium, heroin, cocaine, morphine, and absinthe. During this period these drugs were widely available and incredibly popular among both men and women of many social classes in many parts of the world. They were marketed to both adults and children, often included in patent medicines such as cough syrups, pain relievers, and asthma medicines. They were administered to infants and women with menstrual cramps, and included in food and beverages such as Coca-Cola. Literary characters such as Sherlock Holmes were portrayed using morphine and cocaine. Holmes is described as having a particular penchant for overt injections of a 7% solution of cocaine - though only when lacking adequate mental stimulation. \n\nThe period ended with a series of laws regulating narcotic drugs in various countries and internationally. The International Opium Convention, signed in the Hague in 1912 by 11 countries and entering into force in 1915, was the first stab at a comprehensive drug control treaty internationally and inspired domestic drug control laws such as the Harrison Narcotics Tax Act in the United States.\n\n‘Binge’ is 19th century slang, although the meaning has evolved. However, the specific application of the term ‘great binge’ relative to drug use and popular attitudes towards drug use circa 1870–1914 is relatively recent. As well as its use by Bryars and Harper cited above, it was used by British author and comedian Stephen Fry to describe this period in 'More Fool Me' and by academic Nicholas J. Saunders in 'The Poppy: A History of Conflict, Loss, Remembrance, and Redemption', speaking primarily of the USA, to describe a 19th century “characterised by various narcotics that were legal, widely available, widely consumed and deeply embedded in popular culture”. Popular use goes back a little further. Esquire Magazine used it in this context in 2009: Dracula “appeared right in the middle of what historians call the Great Binge, a period in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries when cocaine and heroin use ran rampant”. A Canadian psychologist, Romeo Vitelli, used the term online in a post dated September 2, 2007.\n"}
{"id": "31155053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31155053", "title": "Vilna Group", "text": "Vilna Group\n\nThe Vilna Group was a circle of Jewish Social-Democrats which met secretly in the city of Vilna, then part of the Russian empire (now Vilnius in Lithuania). The group was founded in the mid-1890s. Its members devoted themselves to disseminating Marxist and socialist literature to Jewish textile workers and to some extent to Jewish and non-Jewish workers generally, providing literacy and education classes for workers and supporting the formation of trade unions. They were among the first to produce socialist literature in Yiddish. All this was illegal and had to be done clandestinely, and all members of the Vilna Group were arrested at various points. The Vilna group included, among others, Arkadi Kremer and his wife Pati Kremer (a.k.a. Matla Srednicki or Srednitskaya), John Mill and Mikhail Liber. It was one of the precursors of the General Jewish Workers' Association in Lithuania, Poland and Russia (known as the 'Bund'), founded in 1897. The Vilna Group also played a role in founding the Russian Social-Democratic Workers' Party (RSDRP) in 1898. Most veterans of the Vilna Group later supported the Mensheviks.\n"}
{"id": "52321455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52321455", "title": "Vladimir Krivošejev", "text": "Vladimir Krivošejev\n\nVladimir Krivošejev (; born 28 December 1963) is a Serbian historian, culturologist, museologist, director of the National Museum in Valjevo, and assistant professor at the Singidunum University.\n\nHe graduated in 1989, majoring in history at the Faculty of Philosophy, University of Belgrade, where he began graduate studies. He received a master's degree at the Faculty of Media and Culture, Megatrend University in marketing culture, and a doctorate from the Faculty of Dramatic Arts, University of Arts in Belgrade, at the Department of Management in culture, on topic of museum management.\n\nIn addition to museological activity, he is also involved in historiography and management culture. He is the author of several permanent exhibitions and thematic exhibitions, as well as dozens of bibliographic units (monographs, manuals, catalogs, guides, articles, discussions, presentations, etc.).\n\n"}
{"id": "32564772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32564772", "title": "William Vincent Barré", "text": "William Vincent Barré\n\nWilliam Vincent Barré (1760?–1829), was a European, a translator and author mainly notable for his writings on Napoleon.\n\nBarré was born in Germany about the year 1760 of French Protestant parents, who had left their native country on account of their religious opinions. He served first in the Russian navy, returned to France when the first revolution broke out, went as a volunteer in the army during the Italian campaign of 1796, and was raised to the rank of captain for the bravery he displayed on the field of battle.\n\nThrough his intimate acquaintance with the principal languages of Europe, he became a favourite of General Bonaparte, who appointed him his personal interpreter. But he wrote some satirical verses about his employer, which seem now to be lost, and was obliged to flee from France. Pursued by Fouché's police-agents, he escaped in a small boat from Paris down the Seine as far as Le Havre, and went thence in an American vessel to England, where he appears to have arrived in 1803. The following year he published in London a \"History of the French Consulate under Napoleon Buonaparte, being an Authentic Narrative of his Administration, which is so little known in Foreign Countries, including a Sketch of his Life, the whole interspersed with curious anecdotes, &c.\", in which he furiously attacks the first consul. Before this work appeared he had already translated into French Sir Robert Wilson's \"History of the British Expedition to Egypt\", and into English a pamphlet, \"Answer from M. Mehée to M. Garat\".\n\nIn 1805 appeared, in English, Barré's \"Rise, Progress, Decline, and Fall of Buonaparte's Empire in France\", the second part of the former \"History\", which is preceded by an 'advertisement' of ten pages, in which he attacks the reviewers of his first book in the \"Annual Review and History of Literature for 1803\". This second work is, according to Barré's entry in the Dictionary of National Biography, as scurrilous as the first.\n\nBarré left England for Ireland, where he appears to have had relatives bearing the same name, among them being the well-known orator, Isaac Barré. About the year 1806 he printed at Belfast, on a single sheet, some verses in French, called \"Monologue de l'Empereur Jaune, le nommé Napoléon Buonaparte, Chrétien, Athée, Catholique et Musulman, sur la destruction de son digne émule et rival l'Empereur Noir, le nommé Jacques Dessalines, par la légion d'honneur de l'armée noire de St. Domingue, le 10 Octobre, traduit du Corse\", with the motto, 'à ton tour, paillasse'. He seems to have published nothing more, and is said to have committed suicide in Dublin in 1829.\n\n"}
{"id": "20923217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20923217", "title": "Yevgeny Kychanov", "text": "Yevgeny Kychanov\n\nEvgenij Ivanovich Kychanov (; also transcribed as \"Yevgeny Ivanovich Kychanov\", 22 June 1932 – 24 May 2013) was a Soviet and Russian orientalist, an expert on the Tangut people and their mediaeval Xi Xia Empire. From 1997 to 2003 he served as the director of the Saint Petersburg Branch of the Institute of Oriental Studies of the Russian Academy of Sciences (now the Institute of Oriental Manuscripts of the Russian Academy of Sciences).\n\nEvgenij Kychanov was born 22 June 1932 in Sarapul, Udmurtia.\n\nEvgenij Kychanov graduated from the Oriental Department of Saint Petersburg University (known at the time as Leningrad University) in 1955, majoring in the history of China. He did his graduate work at the Leningrad Branch of the Institute of Oriental Studies, and in 1960 he defended his PhD thesis on the Xi Xia State. He has been working at that institute ever since, spending many years as the head of the Tangut research group, and, later, as the head of larger units. From 1997 to 2003 he was director of the St Petersburg Branch (now the Institute of Oriental Manuscripts).\n\nKychanov is the author of around 300 articles and books on the history and culture of peoples of China and Inner Asia, including a number of pioneering research papers on the Xi Xia state and translations from the Tangut language, summarizing works on the history of Tibet and nomadic civilizations of Inner Asia, as well as popular books about Tibet, Genghis Khan and other steppe leaders.\n\nIn May 2011 Kychanov was awarded the S. F. Oldenburg Award in recognition of his achievements in the field of Central Asian studies, in particular his role in the decipherment of the Tangut script.\n\nIn June 2012 a conference in his honour, entitled \"The Tanguts in Central Asia\", was held at the Institute of Oriental Manuscripts to mark Kychanov's 80th birthday. A collection of 34 papers written by scholars from Russia, China, Japan and other countries was published as a Festschrift with the same title.\n\nHe died in St Petersburg in May 2013.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58385807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58385807", "title": "Yordan Tabov", "text": "Yordan Tabov\n\nYordan Tabov (born 1946 in Sofia) is a Bulgarian mathematician with academic Degrees: \"Doctor of Pedagogical Sciences (2007)\", \"PhD\" in Mathematics (MGU, Moscow, 1974) Besides he is also an amateur historian and supports the fringe views on the autochthonous origin of the Bulgarian people, espousing ideas similar to those of Gancho Tsenov.\n\n\nLectures at the Sofia University 1979−1989\n\nLectures at New Bulgarian University 1993−2009\n\nLectures at Bourgas Free University 1995−2003\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2900565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2900565", "title": "Zhou Man", "text": "Zhou Man\n\nZhou Man (), was a 15th-century Chinese admiral and explorer. He was born into a wealthy merchant family in the year 1378. When he was six years old, his father died on an overseas voyage to Korea. Mourning his father's death, he left his mother and his four younger siblings behind. He worked his way into the emperor's staff by the age of 22. At 32, he was assigned \"Grand Leader of All Vessels Commanded by the Emperor's Swift Hand.\"\n\nZhou, with the help of three other commanders, explored wide reaches of the Indian Ocean. A stone inscription, dated 1431, at the Palace of the Celestial Spouse in Liujiagang, Jiangsu is translated as:\n\nThomas Seinbeck's \"In the Shade of the Cypress\" (published 2010) is a historical novel whose main character is Zhou Man.\n\nIn his book \"1421: The Year China Discovered the World\", amateur historian Gavin Menzies argues that Zhou Man built a fortess at Bittangabee Bay Australia and that his fleet approached and mapped the Pacific coast of North America and may have been wiped out by a megatsunami resulting from a comet impact creating Mahuika crater. The Australian geographer Professor Victor Prescott states that the structure at Bittangabee is considered by local archaeologists to be early 19th century and that Menzies misinterpreted the Waldseemüller map which he used as evidence for a visit by Zhou Man to the Americas.\n"}
