{"id": "667459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=667459", "title": "Acceptance", "text": "Acceptance\n\nAcceptance in human psychology is a person's assent to the reality of a situation, recognizing a process or condition (often a negative or uncomfortable situation) without attempting to change it or protest it. The concept is close in meaning to \"acquiescence\", derived from the Latin \"acquiēscere\" (to find rest in).\n\nThe term \"acceptance\" is a noun with various different meanings. When the person to whom a proposal is made signifies their assent, it is an \"acceptance\" of their offer, also called an agreement. For example, if someone gives a gift and another receives it, then they have accepted the gift; therefore, having acceptance. Another definition of acceptance has to do with positive welcome and belonging, favor, and endorsement. For instance, one can like someone and accept them due to their approval of that person. Another description is that acceptance can be an act of believing or assenting. The definition overlaps with \"toleration\", but acceptance and tolerance are not synonyms.\n\nAcceptance – \"An express act or implication by conduct that manifests assent to the terms of an offer in a manner invited or required by the offer so that a binding contract is formed. The exercise of power conferred by an offer by performance of some act. The act of a person to whom something is offered of tendered by another, whereby the offered demonstrates through an act invited by the offer an intention of retaining the subject of the offer.\"\n\nEckhart Tolle, a spiritual teacher who is alive today, defines acceptance as a \"this is it\" response to anything occurring in any moment of life. There, strength, peace and serenity are available when one stops struggling to resist, or hang on tightly to what is so in any given moment. What do I have right now? Now what am I experiencing? The point is, can one be sad when one is sad, afraid when afraid, silly when silly, happy when happy, judgmental when judgmental, overthinking when overthinking, serene when serene, etc. \n\nTo simplify, acceptance means allowing; allowing unwanted private experiences (thoughts, feelings and urges) to come and go without struggling with them.\n\nBefore any breakdown to types, it should be recognized that \"acceptance\" is treating whatever happens, the actual event which is the outcome of all combined previous events, as overall the best outcome. Acceptance typically contains the concept of approval; the psycho-spiritual use of the term infers a non-judgmental mindset. Acceptance is contrasted with \"resistance\", a term that has strong political and psychoanalytic connotations that do not apply in most contexts. Groups and individuals can show acceptance of various events and conditions in the world; individuals may accept elements of their own thoughts, feelings, and personal histories. For example, psychotherapeutic treatment of a person with depression or anxiety can involve fostering acceptance either for whatever personal circumstances may give rise to those feelings or for the feelings themselves. Psychotherapy can also involve lessening an individual's acceptance of various situations.\n\nNotions of acceptance are prominent in many faiths and meditation practices. For example, Buddhism's first noble truth, \"All life is suffering\", invites people to accept that suffering is a natural part of life. The term \"Kabbalah\" literally means acceptance. Minority groups in society often describe their goal as acceptance, wherein the majority will not marginalize the minority's full participation in society. A majority may be said to tolerate minorities when it confines their participation to certain aspects of society, but not accept them.\n\nAcceptance is the fifth stage of the Kübler-Ross model (commonly known as the \"stages of dying\").\n\n\"The Big Book of Alcoholics Anonymous\" describes the importance of acceptance in the treatment of alcoholism. It states that acceptance can be used to resolve situations where a person feels disturbed by a \"person, place, thing or situation – some fact of [their] life – [which is] unacceptable to [them]\". It claims that an alcoholic person cannot find serenity until they accept that \"nothing happens in God's world by mistake\" and that the condition of alcoholism must be accepted as a given.\n\nSelf-acceptance is being satisfied with one's current self. It is an agreement with oneself to appreciate, validate, and support the self as it is, despite deficiencies and negative past behavior. People have trouble accepting themselves because of a lack of motivation. Some people have the misconception that if one is happy with themself, they would not change anything about themself. Individuals do not have to be unhappy with themselves to know and can actively change things they don't like.\n\nSocial acceptance affects people of all social and age groups. Social acceptance can be defined as tolerating the differences and diversity in others because most people attempt to look and act like others do in order to fit in.\n\nChildren and teenagers tend to desire to be accepted among friends as part of that group, and act upon that desire through peer pressure. Peer pressure sometimes determines how people style their hair and clothing to \"look cool\". A desire to be accepted by those whose friendship one values can determine their openness towards popular behavior smoking, drinking, swearing, and more. People exhibit and avoid certain behaviors out of the desire for the approval of their friends, which may include drinking or taking drugs.\n\nWhen it comes to mental disabilities, social acceptance plays a big role in recovery. Many people don't understand mental illness, so they are unsure of how to embrace people who have a disease, leaving these people with feelings of isolation in friend groups.\n\nA type of acceptance that requires modification of the initial conditions before the final acceptance is made, is called conditional acceptance, or qualified acceptance. For example, a contract that needs to be accepted from two parties may be adjusted or modified so that it fits both parties' satisfactions. A person has been made an offer that they are willing to agree on as long as some changes are made in its terms or that some conditions or event occurs gives conditional acceptance. In a contract that is made from a business to the employer, both parties may change and modify the contract until both parties agree or accept the details in the business contract.\n\nExpressed acceptance involves making an overt and unambiguous acceptance of the set conditions. For example, a person clearly and explicitly agreeing to an offer. They accept the terms without any changes.\n\nImplied acceptance has one's intents to consent to the presented conditions made. Acceptance is implied by demonstrating any act indicating a person's assent to the proposed bargain. If a lady selects an item in a department store and pays the cashier for it, the lady has indicated that she has agreed to the department stores owner's offer to sell the item for the price stated on the price tag.\n\nAcceptance is fundamental to the core beliefs of most Abrahamic religions: the word \"Islam\" can be translated as \"acceptance\", \"surrender\" or \"voluntary submission\", and Christianity is based upon the \"acceptance\" of Jesus of Nazareth as the Christ and acceptance of God's will. Religions and psychological treatments often suggest a path of acceptance when a situation is both disliked and fated, or when change may be possible only at great cost or risk. Acceptance may imply only a lack of outward, behavioral attempts at possible change, but the word is also used more specifically for a felt or hypothesized cognitive or emotional state.\n\nWithin Christian beliefs, acceptance is characterized as embracing the reality of a situation based on one's trust in God's perfect will and control. In the Muslim community, acceptance of Allah is similar to people that are considered Christian and how they accept God as their higher being (Bates, 2002). Jewish people accept the Commandments as a way to live and have a good and fulfilling life (Mcdowell and Stewart, 1983).\n\nBeliefs and acceptance overlap in meaning. The acceptance of one's beliefs is important to show commitment and structure of one's life. Not only is it vital for survival, but it is used in everyday relationships. Being accepted by a friend has shown to positively affect an individual's self-esteem and well-being. In fact, without acceptance, it could lead to a host of psychological issues.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1271776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1271776", "title": "Ad extirpanda", "text": "Ad extirpanda\n\nAd extirpanda (named for its Latin incipit) was a papal bull promulgated on Wednesday, May 15, 1252 by Pope Innocent IV which authorized in limited and defined circumstances the use of torture by the Inquisition for eliciting confessions from heretics.\n\nThe bull was issued in the wake of the murder of the papal inquisitor of Lombardy, St. Peter of Verona, who was killed by a conspiracy of Cathar sympathizers on 6 April 1252. The bull argued that as heretics are \"murderers of souls as well as robbers of God’s sacraments and of the Christian faith ...\", they are \"to be coerced—as are thieves and bandits—into confessing their errors and accusing others, although one must stop short of danger to life or limb.\" The following parameters were placed on the use of torture:\n\nThe bull conceded to the State a portion of the property to be confiscated from convicted heretics. The State in return assumed the burden of carrying out the penalty. The relevant portion of the bull read: \"When those adjudged guilty of heresy have been given up to the civil power by the bishop or his representative, or the Inquisition, the podestà or chief magistrate of the city shall take them at once, and shall, within five days at the most, execute the laws made against them.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "50658452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50658452", "title": "All India Dalit Mahila Adhikar Manch", "text": "All India Dalit Mahila Adhikar Manch\n\nAll India Dalit Mahila Adhikar Manch (AIDMAM) is a platform for women from the Dalit community to raise their voices for justice. This platform has raised several struggles and movements for self-respect and dignity. AIDMAM is a movement which was initiated by the National Campaign on Dalit Human Rights (NCDHR). The aim of the movement is to recognize how the class, caste, and gender identity of a dalit woman overlap and place them at the very bottom of the social hierarchy. They work to empower dalit women to challenge these caste, class, and gender hierarchies and move forward in their struggle for justice. They do so through networking, enhancing skills and leadership at the state and district level.\n\nAIDMAM was founded in 2006 by convener, Vimal Thorat and general secretary, Asha Kowtal. They primarily work in North India and have intervened in six states: Haryana, Orissa, Punjab, Bihar, MP and Rajasthan. As a movement they are constantly networking with dalit, women and human rights organisations and facilitate the building of dalit women's perspective. They monitor violence against dalit women and also conduct research on these issues which facilitated their advocacy efforts. Building on the capacities of dalit women connected with the movement is one of their main activities.\n\nIn 2009, AIDMAM started a programme which worked with dalit women who were elected representatives of panchayats in five states. The aim was to train these women to act upon issues of violence against women. They also started a dalit women's self-respect \"yatra\", which was a monthlong \"yatra\" in 2014 where they traveled across states and organised the dalit community and campaigned against violence against dalit women. In 2015, AIDMAM traveled in the United States and spoke to black activists in that country. AIDMAM held additional marches in 2018. Also in 2018, they presented a \"side event\" at the 38th session of the United Nations Human Rights Council which included testimonies of caste-based violence against women. A social media campaign, called #DalitWomenFight, is used by AIDMAM to increase support for their work.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "89525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89525", "title": "Allegory of the Cave", "text": "Allegory of the Cave\n\nThe Allegory of the Cave, or Plato's Cave, was presented by the Greek philosopher Plato in his work \"Republic\" (514a–520a) to compare \"the effect of education () and the lack of it on our nature\". It is written as a dialogue between Plato's brother Glaucon and his mentor Socrates, narrated by the latter. The allegory is presented after the analogy of the sun (508b–509c) and the analogy of the divided line (509d–511e). All three are characterized in relation to dialectic at the end of Books VII and VIII (531d–534e).\n\nPlato has Socrates describe a group of people who have lived chained to the wall of a cave all of their lives, facing a blank wall. The people watch shadows projected on the wall from objects passing in front of a fire behind them, and give names to these shadows. The shadows are the prisoners' reality. Socrates explains how the philosopher is like a prisoner who is freed from the cave and comes to understand that the shadows on the wall are not reality at all, for he can perceive the true form of reality rather than the manufactured reality that is the shadows seen by the prisoners. The inmates of this place do not even desire to leave their prison, for they know no better life. The prisoners manage to break their bonds one day, and discover that their reality was not what they thought it was. They discovered the sun, which Plato uses as an analogy for the fire that man cannot see behind. Like the fire that cast light on the walls of the cave, the human condition is forever bound to the impressions that are received through the senses. Even if these interpretations (or, in Kantian terminology, intuitions) are an absurd misrepresentation of reality, we cannot somehow break free from the bonds of our human condition—we cannot free ourselves from phenomenal state just as the prisoners could not free themselves from their chains. If, however, we were to miraculously escape our bondage, we would find a world that we could not understand—the sun is incomprehensible for someone who has never seen it. In other words, we would encounter another \"realm\", a place incomprehensible because, theoretically, it is the source of a higher reality than the one we have always known; it is the realm of pure Form, pure fact.\n\nSocrates remarks that this allegory can be paired with previous writings, namely the analogy of the sun and the analogy of the divided line.\n\nThe allegory of the cave is also called the analogy of the cave, myth of the cave, metaphor of the cave, parable of the cave, and Plato's Cave.\n\nPlato begins by having Socrates ask Glaucon to imagine a cave where people have been imprisoned from birth. These prisoners are chained so that their legs and necks are fixed, forcing them to gaze at the wall in front of them and not look around at the cave, each other, or themselves (514a–b). Behind the prisoners is a fire, and between the fire and the prisoners is a raised walkway with a low wall, behind which people walk carrying objects or puppets \"of men and other living things\" (514b). The people walk behind the wall so their bodies do not cast shadows for the prisoners to see, but the objects they carry do (\"just as puppet showmen have screens in front of them at which they work their puppets\" (514a)). The prisoners cannot see any of what is happening behind them, they are only able to see the shadows cast upon the cave wall in front of them. The sounds of the people talking echo off the walls, and the prisoners believe these sounds come from the shadows (514c).\n\nSocrates suggests that the shadows are reality for the prisoners because they have never seen anything else; they do not realize that what they see are shadows of objects in front of a fire, much less that these objects are inspired by real things outside the cave which they do not see (514b-515a).\n\nPlato then supposes that one prisoner is freed. This prisoner would look around and see the fire. The light would hurt his eyes and make it difficult for him to see the objects casting the shadows. If he were told that what he is seeing is \"real\" instead of the other version of reality he sees on the wall, he would not believe it. In his pain, Plato continues, the freed prisoner would turn away and run back to what he is accustomed to (that is, the shadows of the carried objects). He writes \"... it would hurt his eyes, and he would escape by turning away to the things which he was able to look at, and these he would believe to be clearer than what was being shown to him.\"\n\nPlato continues: \"Suppose... that someone should drag him... by force, up the rough ascent, the steep way up, and never stop until he could drag him out into the light of the sun.\" The prisoner would be angry and in pain, and this would only worsen when the radiant light of the sun overwhelms his eyes and blinds him.\n\n\"Slowly, his eyes adjust to the light of the sun. First he can only see shadows. Gradually he can see the reflections of people and things in water and then later see the people and things themselves. Eventually, he is able to look at the stars and moon at night until finally he can look upon the sun itself (516a).\" Only after he can look straight at the sun \"is he able to reason about it\" and what it is (516b). (See also Plato's Analogy of the Sun, which occurs near the end of \"The Republic\", Book VI.)\n\nPlato continues, saying that the freed prisoner would think that the world outside the cave was superior to the world he experienced in the cave; \"he would bless himself for the change, and pity [the other prisoners]\" and would want to bring his fellow cave dwellers out of the cave and into the sunlight (516c).\n\nThe returning prisoner, whose eyes have become accustomed to the sunlight, would be blind when he re-enters the cave, just as he was when he was first exposed to the sun (516e). The prisoners, according to Plato, would infer from the returning man's blindness that the journey out of the cave had harmed him and that they should not undertake a similar journey. Plato concludes that the prisoners, if they were able, would therefore reach out and kill anyone who attempted to drag them out of the cave (517a).\n\n The allegory contains many forms of symbolism used to describe the illusions of the world. The cave represents the superficial world for the prisoners. The chains that prevent the prisoners from leaving the cave represent ignorance, meaning the chains are stopping them from learning the truth. The shadows that cast on the walls of the cave represent the superficial truth, which is an illusion that the prisoners see in the cave. The freed prisoner represents those in society who see the physical world for the illusion that it is. The sun that is glaring the eyes of the prisoners represents the real truth of the actual world.\n\nThe allegory is probably related to Plato's theory of Forms, according to which the \"Forms\" (or \"Ideas\"), and not the material world known to us through sensation, possess the highest and most fundamental kind of reality. Only knowledge of the Forms constitutes real knowledge or what Socrates considers \"the good\". Socrates informs Glaucon that the most excellent people must follow the highest of all studies, which is to behold the Good. Those who have ascended to this highest level, however, must not remain there but must return to the cave and dwell with the prisoners, sharing in their labors and honors.\n\nPlato's \"Phaedo\" contains similar imagery to that of the allegory of the Cave; a philosopher recognizes that before philosophy, his soul was \"a veritable prisoner fast bound within his body... and that instead of investigating reality of itself and in itself is compelled to peer through the bars of a prison.\"\n\nScholars debate the possible interpretations of the allegory of the Cave, either looking at it from an epistemological standpoint – one based on the study of how Plato believes we come to know things – or through a political (Politeia) lens. Much of the scholarship on the allegory falls between these two perspectives, with some completely independent of either. The epistemological view and the political view, fathered by Richard Lewis Nettleship and A.S. Ferguson respectively, tend to be discussed most frequently. Nettleship interprets the allegory of the cave as representative of our innate intellectual incapacity, in order to contrast our lesser understanding with that of the philosopher, as well as an allegory about people who are unable or unwilling to seek truth and wisdom. Ferguson, on the other hand, bases his interpretation of the allegory on the claim that the cave is an allegory of human nature and that it symbolizes the opposition between the philosopher and the corruption of the prevailing political condition.\n\nCleavages have emerged within these respective camps of thought, however. Much of the modern scholarly debate surrounding the allegory has emerged from Martin Heidegger's exploration of the allegory, and philosophy as a whole, through the lens of human freedom in his book \"The Essence of Human Freedom: An Introduction to Philosophy and The Essence of Truth: On Plato's Cave Allegory and Theaetetus\". In response, Hannah Arendt, an advocate of the political interpretation of the allegory, suggests that through the allegory, Plato \"wanted to apply his own theory of ideas to politics\". Conversely, Heidegger argues that the essence of truth is a way of being and not an object. Arendt criticised Heidegger's interpretation of the allegory, writing that \"Heidegger…is off base in using the cave simile to interpret and 'criticize' Plato's theory of ideas\".\n\nThe themes and imagery of Plato's cave have appeared throughout Western thought and culture. Some examples include:\n\n\n\nThe following is a list of supplementary scholarly literature on the Allegory of the Cave that includes articles from epistemological, political, alternative, and independent viewpoints on the allegory:\n\n"}
{"id": "33404319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33404319", "title": "Argument from analogy", "text": "Argument from analogy\n\nArgument from analogy is a special type of inductive argument, whereby perceived similarities are used as a basis to infer some further similarity that has yet to be observed. Analogical reasoning is one of the most common methods by which human beings attempt to understand the world and make decisions. When a person has a bad experience with a product and decides not to buy anything further from the producer, this is often a case of analogical reasoning. It is also implicit in much of science; for instance, experiments on laboratory rats typically proceed on the basis that some physiological similarities between rats and humans entails some further similarity (e.g. possible reactions to a drug).\n\nThe process of analogical inference involves noting the shared properties of two or more things, and from this basis inferring that they also share some further property. The structure or form may be generalized like so:\n\nThe argument does not assert that the two things are \"large and very big\", only that they are \"similar\". The argument may provide us with \"good evidence\" for the conclusion, but the conclusion does not follow as a matter of logical necessity. Determining the strength of the argument requires that we take into consideration more than just the \"form\": the \"content\" must also come under scrutiny.\n\nSeveral affect the strength of the argument from analogy:\n\nArguments from analogy may be attacked by use of disanalogy, counteranalogy, and by pointing out unintended consequences of an analogy. In order to understand how one might go about analyzing an argument from analogy, consider the teleological argument and the criticisms of this argument put forward by the philosopher David Hume.\n\nAccording to the analogical reasoning in the teleological argument, it would be ridiculous to assume that a complex object such as a watch came about through some random process. Since we have no problem at all inferring that such objects must have had an intelligent designer who created it for some purpose, we ought to draw the same conclusion for another complex and apparently designed object: the universe.\n\nHume argued that the universe and a watch have many relevant dissimilarities; for instance, the universe is often very disorderly and random. This is the strategy of \"disanalogy\": just as the amount and variety of relevant similarities between two objects strengthens an analogical conclusion, so do the amount and variety of relevant dissimilarities weaken it. Creating a \"counteranalogy,\" Hume argued that some natural objects seem to have order and complexity — snowflakes for example — but are not the result of intelligent direction. But then just as the snowflake's order and complexity itself might not have direction, the causes of the order and complexity might. So this would be an example of disproof by begging the question. Finally, Hume provides many possible \"unintended consequences\" of the argument; for instance, given that objects such as watches are often the result of the labor of groups of individuals, the reasoning employed by the teleological argument would seem to lend support to polytheism.\n\nA false analogy is a faulty instance of the argument from analogy.\n\nAn argument from analogy is weakened if it is inadequate in any of the above respects. The term \"false analogy\" comes from the philosopher John Stuart Mill, who was one of the first individuals to engage in a detailed examination of analogical reasoning. One of Mill's examples involved an inference that some person is lazy from the observation that his or her sibling is lazy. According to Mill, sharing parents is not all that relevant to the property of laziness.\n\nA basic example:\n\"The model of the solar system is similar to that of an atom, with planets orbiting the sun like electrons orbiting the nucleus. Electrons can jump from orbit to orbit; so we should study ancient records for sightings of planets jumping from orbit to orbit.\"\n\nAnother example is:\n\nPerson A: \"I think that people can have some affection for their cultural heritage.\"\n\nPerson B: \"You're just like Hitler!\"\n\nIn the above example, Person B has evaded a reasoned discussion by tarring Person A with an irrelevant association to an idea that Hitler used.\nNo one person is identical to another to the extent that their proposals can be disparaged by a mere reference to that other person. It is a form of ad hominem: Attacking the messenger, rather than the message. The above example is also an example of Reductio ad Hitlerum and, in an online context, invokes Godwin's law.\n\n"}
{"id": "3309687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3309687", "title": "Axiomatic design", "text": "Axiomatic design\n\nAxiomatic design is a systems design methodology using matrix methods to systematically analyze the transformation of customer needs into functional requirements, design parameters, and process variables. Specifically, functional requirements (FRs) are related to design parameters (DPs):\n\nThe method gets its name from its use of design principles or design Axioms (i.e., given without proof) governing the analysis and decision making process in developing high quality product or system designs. The two axioms used in Axiomatic Design (AD) are:\n\n\nAxiomatic design is considered to be a design method that addresses fundamental issues in Taguchi methods.\n\nThe methodology was developed by Dr. Suh Nam Pyo at MIT, Department of Mechanical Engineering since the 1990s. A series of academic conferences have been held to present current developments of the methodology. The most recent International Conference on Axiomatic Design (ICAD) was the 11th ICAD hosted in Romania in 2017.\n\n\nA discussion of the methodology is given here: \n\nPast proceedings of International Conferences on Axiomatic Design can be downloaded here:\n"}
{"id": "26477248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26477248", "title": "Behavioral cusp", "text": "Behavioral cusp\n\nA behavioral cusp is any behavior change that brings an organism's behavior into contact with new contingencies that have far-reaching consequences. A behavioral cusp is a special type of behavior change because it provides the learner with opportunities to access new reinforcers, new contingencies, new environments, new related behaviors (generativeness) and competition with archaic or problem behaviors. It affects the people around the learner, and these people agree to the behavior change and support its development after the intervention is removed.\n\nThe concept has far reaching implications for every individual, and for the field of developmental psychology, because it provides a behavioral alternative to the concept of maturation and change due to the simple passage of time, such as developmental milestones. The cusp is a behavior change that presents special features when compared to other behavior changes.\nThe concept was first proposed by Sidney W. Bijou, an American developmental psychologist. The idea of the cusp was to link behavioral principles to rapid spurts in development (see Behavior analysis of child development).\n\nA behavioral cusp as conceptualized by Jesus Rosales-Ruiz & Donald Baer in 1997 is an important behavior change that affects future behavior changes. The behavioral cusp, like the reinforcer, is apprehended by its effects. Whereas a reinforcer acts on a single response or a group of related responses, the effects of a behavioral cusp regulate a large number of responses in a more distant future.\n\nThe concept has been compared to a developmental milestone, however, not all cusps are milestones. For example, learning to play soccer is not a milestone, but it was life-changing for Pelé. As a result of learning to kick grapefruits (the initial important change or cusp), Pelé accessed (1) new environments, (2) new reinforcers, (3) new soccer moves, (4) dropped competing behaviors (smoking), and (5) gained international acclaims for his skill. Soccer is not a developmental milestone because it is not a necessary skill in most environments.\n\nThe following properties are special features of a behavioral change that lead to more change, and an increased likelihood of social adaptation, independence, and cultural fitness.\n\nNew reinforcers are accessible and enrich the perspective of the learner. Additionally these reinforcers may lead to an increase in the variety of behaviors. If the reinforcers are promoting health and social behaviors, they will lead to an improved quality of life.\n\nA child who learns to open a door may access the swing for the first time and learns to use the swing. Here, the new skill (swinging motion is the reinforcer) may lead to more complex and social activities such as (1) turn taking, (2) asking someone to share the swing, (3) taking turns pushing someone, which in turn (4) may provide more social opportunities to speak and (5) interact with the play partners, etc.\n\nA child learns to open a door and walks outside. He finds some ants behind a shrubbery and watches the ants. His parents are looking for him, they get worried and are calling him. The child is unusually mesmerized by columns of ants on the ground and does not hear the calls. His parents find him shortly after, but they are frantic from their 5-minute search and accidentally scare him from going outside. In this non-example, learning to open doors that lead outside resulted in consequences that did not directly benefit the child and maybe decrease important skills related to exploration and search. In this case, no new reinforcers were contacted and learning to open the backyard door (that has a special latch) was effectively a waste of time because the child's parents don't usually approve being alone in the backyard.\n\nNew contingencies are responsible for the selection of novel and more adaptive behaviors while decreasing problematic or archaic behaviors. Contingencies of reinforcement (before > R > Reinforcer) produce and maintain each and every learned behavior. New contingencies establish the control of new stimuli over our behaviors, and therefore make us more sensitive and aware of our surrounding.\n\nNew environments are geographical and/or virtual areas of potential change (receiving environments). New environments regulate, maintain, and set the micro-cultural boundaries for reinforcers (and punishers), and their antecedents. They include tools and stakeholders controlling the pace and content of instruction and, as a result, they regulate boundary of what the learner learns (e.g., school curriculum). New environments must contain some of the stakeholders' preferences and reinforcers to create lasting positive reinforcement practices for the learner.\n\nGenerativeness describes the ability of the receiving environment to regulate novel responses, functions, values or response products derived from the original cusp response. For a behavior, it is the ability to recombine or merge into more complex units, or the ability to contact environments.\n\nA child learns phonetic reading and can recombine the 50 or so English phonemes into 50,000 words by recombining the individual sounds he has learned to read. The generative index for this act of learning the basic English phonemes is approximately 10,000 (where one new behavior results in a potential 10,000 applications).\n\nA child learns sight reading for 50 words. When a new word is presented, the child learns by listening to a teacher and memorizes the words rather than using what he has previously learned, thus becoming able to read only 50 words using this method. Additionally, he is now dependent on someone for learning each new vocabulary word.\n\nBehavior competition is the ability of cusp behaviors to displace previously established behaviors on a continuum of intensity and rate, across repertoires, and environments. Competing archaic behaviors occur on a corresponding continuum of severity.\n\nEffect on others comes from the learner's behavior affecting the stakeholders who control reinforcers and punishers in a specific environment. It is important to identify these stakeholders' motivations and reinforcers in selecting potential cusps. Effect refers to the changes in values and behaviors of the stakeholder resulting from a cusp in the learner. The initial and gradually more complex behaviors that constituted the entry point for an important behavior change that, once initiated, so profoundly alters, displaces, or transforms one's behavioral repertoire that it renders preexisting behavioral repertoires obsolete. A behavioral cusp is an important behavior change that alters the probability of the learner's future repertoires and interactions with stakeholders' repertoires.\n\nSocial validity is an indicator of social acceptability of a behavior and its consequences for the stakeholders representing the communities which the learner is accessing or will access. Some seemingly insignificant changes in a stakeholder may dramatically affect the learner. All stakeholders (e.g., government officials, teachers, parents, and other interventionists) should agree to the goals, methods, and tools for the intervention and the norms from the local community suggest the boundaries of what should be learned.\n\nThe behavioral cusp has implications for the selection and sequencing of skills during the life span. While milestones are mainly concerned with the chronology of behaviors, the concept of behavioral cusp is concerned with the fitness of the behavior within a context or a receiving environment. As Rosales-Ruiz and Baer (1997) stated, \"One child's cusp may be another child's waste of time.\" Thus, there is a great need for empirically-based guidelines in making decisions related to the initial selection of skills.\n\nThe applications of the concepts are related to the prediction, selection, and retention of successful and adaptive behaviors to the treatment of childhood autism, Down syndrome, and other developmental disabilities is humane and based on evidence from the field of behavior analysis. The first applications of the concept derive from a set of guidelines proposed by Bosch and Fuqua in \"The Journal of Applied Behavior Analysis\".\n\nA new technology and methodology, necessary to measure the effects of a small change over time, will reveal a strong dependence on the initial conditions selected by a cusp specialist (butterfly effect).\n\nFuture research will elucidate the nature and parameters of the criteria and the tools used in the selection and sequencing of skills. \n\nAs importantly, the existing parameters (proposed by Rosales-Ruiz, Baer, Bosch, & Fuqua) provides justifications for behavioral interventions.\n\n"}
{"id": "4003963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4003963", "title": "Causal closure", "text": "Causal closure\n\nPhysical causal closure is a metaphysical theory about the nature of causation in the physical realm with significant ramifications in the study of metaphysics and the mind. In a strongly stated version, physical causal closure says that \"all physical states have \"pure\" physical causes\" — Jaegwon Kim, or that \"physical effects have \"only\" physical causes\" — Agustin Vincente, p. 150.\n\nThose who accept the theory tend, in general although not exclusively, to the physicalist view that all entities that exist are physical entities. As Karl Popper says, \"The physicalist principle of closedness of the physical ... is of decisive importance and I take it as the characteristic principle of physicalism or materialism.\"\n\nPhysical causal closure has stronger and weaker formulations.\n\nThe stronger formulations assert that \"No physical event has a cause outside the physical domain.\" — Jaegwon Kim. That is, they assert that for physical events, causes \"other\" than physical causes do not exist. (Physical events that are not causally \"determined\" may be said to have their objective \"chances of occurrence\" determined by physical causes.)\n\nWeaker forms of the theory state that \"Every physical event has a physical cause.\" — Barbara Montero, or that \"Every physical effect (that is, caused event) has physical sufficient causes\" — Agustin Vincente, (According to Vincente, a number of caveats have to be observed, among which is the postulate that \"physical entities\" are entities postulated by a true theory of physics, a theory of which we are ignorant today, and that such a true theory \"will not include mental (or in general, dubious) concepts\" (Note 5, p. 168).) or that \"if we trace the causal ancestry of a physical event we need never go outside the physical domain.\" — Jaegwon Kim. Weaker forms of physical causal closure are synonymous with the \"causal completeness\", the notion that \"Every physical effect that has a sufficient cause has a sufficient physical cause.\" That is, weaker forms allow that \"in addition\" to physical causes, there may be other kinds of causes for physical events.\n\nThe notion of reductionism supplements physical causal closure with the claim that \"all\" events ultimately can be reduced to physical events. Under these circumstances, mental events are a subset of physical events and caused by them.\n\nPhysical causal closure is especially important when considering dualist theories of mind. If no physical event has a cause outside the physical realm, it would follow that non-physical mental events would be causally impotent in the physical world. However, as Kim has agreed, it seems intuitively problematic to strip mental events of their causal power. Only epiphenomenalists would agree that mental events do not have causal power, but epiphenomenalism is objectionable to many philosophers. One way of maintaining the causal powers of mental events is to assert token identity non-reductive physicalism—that mental properties supervene on neurological properties. That is, there can be no change in the mental without a corresponding change in the physical. Yet this implies that mental events can have two causes (physical and mental), a situation which apparently results in overdetermination (redundant causes), and denies the strong physical causal closure. Kim argues that if the strong physical causal closure argument is correct, the only way to maintain mental causation is to assert type identity reductive physicalism—that mental properties are neurological properties.\n\nThe validity of the physical causal closure has long been debated. In modern times, it has been pointed out that science is based on removing the subject from investigations, and by seeking objectivity. This outsider status for the observer, a third-person perspective, is said by some philosophers to have automatically severed science from the ability to examine subjective issues like consciousness and free will. A different attack upon the physical causal closure discussed by Hodgson is to claim science itself does not support the physical causal closure. Some philosophers have criticized the argument for the physical causal closure by supporting teleology and mental-to-physical causation via a \"soul\".\n\nThere seem \"prima facie\" to be irreducible purpose-based (or teleological) explanations of some natural phenomena. For instance, the movement of a writer's fingers on the keyboard and a reader's eyes across the screen is irreducibly explained in reference to the \"goal\" of writing an intelligible sentence or of learning about the physical causal closure arguments, respectively. On the face of it, an exclusively non-teleological (descriptive) account of the neurological and biological features of hand movement and eye movement misses the point. To say, \"I am moving my fingers \"because\" my brain signals are triggering muscle motion in my arms\" is true, but does not exhaustively explain all the causes. Both are causes. In Aristotelian terms, a neurological account explains the efficient cause, while the purpose-based account explains the final cause.\n\nThe physical causal closure thesis challenges this account. It attempts to reduce all teleological final (and formal) causes to efficient causes. Goetz and Taliaferro urge that this challenge is unjustified, partly because it would imply that the \"real\" cause of arguing for the physical causal closure is neurobiological activity in the brain, not (as we know it is) the purpose-based attempt to understand the world and explain it to others.\n\nOne way of clarifying the physical causal closure argument is to add a premise specifying that there are no irreducible teleological causes. This, of course, is the attempted conclusion of the argument. Putting the conclusion as one of the premises of the argument is formally valid, but fallacious (begging the question). It is no more sound than the argument that \"I believe in the Bible because it is the written word of God through his prophets. Obviously, God would not lie to his prophets. After all, the Bible says so.\"\n\nAnother way of clarifying the physical causal closure argument is to specify that \"Every physical effect [that has a physical cause] has a physical cause.\" But this is a tautology, and therefore true but trivial, like the statement \"Every angel that has wings is an angel that has wings\" or \"Every white male who is bald is a bald white male.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "720902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=720902", "title": "Compulsory sterilization", "text": "Compulsory sterilization\n\nCompulsory sterilization, also known as forced or coerced sterilization, programs are government policies which force people to undergo surgical or other sterilization. The reasons governments implement sterilization programs vary in purpose and intent. In the first half of the 20th century, several such programs were instituted in countries around the world, usually as part of eugenics programs intended to prevent the reproduction of members of the population considered to be carriers of defective genetic traits.\n\nOther bases for compulsory sterilization have included general population growth management, sex discrimination, \"sex-normalizing\" surgeries of intersex persons, limiting the spread of HIV, and reducing the population of ethnic groups. The last is counted as an act of genocide under the Statute of Rome. Some countries require transgender people to undergo sterilization before gaining legal recognition of their gender, a practice that Juan E. Méndez, the United Nations Special Rapporteur on torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment cites as a violation of the Yogyakarta Principles.\n\nCompulsory sterilization has been proposed as a means of human population planning.\n\nIn May 2014, the World Health Organization, OHCHR, UN Women, UNAIDS, UNDP, UNFPA and UNICEF issued a joint statement on \"Eliminating forced, coercive and otherwise involuntary sterilization, An interagency statement\". The report references the involuntary sterilization of a number of specific population groups. They include:\n\n\nThe report recommends a range of guiding principles for medical treatment, including ensuring patient autonomy in decision-making, ensuring non-discrimination, accountability and access to remedies.\n\nHuman population planning is the practice of artificially altering the rate of growth of a human population. Historically, human population planning has been implemented by limiting the population's birth rate, usually by government mandate, and has been undertaken as a response to factors including high or increasing levels of poverty, environmental concerns, religious reasons, and overpopulation. While population planning can involve measures that improve people's lives by giving them greater control of their reproduction, some programs have exposed them to exploitation.\n\nIn the 1977 textbook \"\", the authors discussed in this encyclopedic textbook the possible role of a wide variety of formulations to address human overpopulation. This included the possibility of compulsory sterilization. A government might utilize sortition to select those to be sterilized in order to avoid accusations of bias or having any other adverse agenda. In \"Ecoscience\", in the chapter entitled \"The Human Predicament: Finding A Way Out\", the authors speculate about pharmaceuticals that might be developed to sterilize people. Some partial fulfillments of these predictions are the birth control drugs in Norplant and Depo-Provera. See also sterilization (medicine)#Pharmacological. One can further speculate about pharmaceuticals designed to permanently sterilize the gestating human fetus \"in utero\".\n\nThe Istanbul Convention prohibits forced sterilization (Article 39).\nWidespread or systematic forced sterilization has been recognized as a Crime against Humanity by the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court in the explanatory memorandum. This memorandum defines the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court.\nRebecca Lee wrote in the Berkeley Journal of International Law that, , twenty-one Council of Europe member states require proof of sterilization in order to change one's legal sex categorization. Lee wrote that requiring sterilization is a human rights violation and LGBT specific international treaties may need to be developed in order to protect LGBT human rights.\n\nBangladesh has a long running government operated civilian exploitative sterilization program as a part of its population control policy, where poor women and men are mainly targeted. The government offers 2000 Bangladeshi Taka (24 USD) for the woman who are persuaded to undergo tubal ligation and for the man who are persuaded to undergo vasectomy. Women are also offered a sari (a garment worn by women in Indian subcontinent) and men are offered a lungi (a garment for men) to wear for undergoing sterilization. The referrer, who persuades the woman or man to undergo sterilization gets 300 Bangladeshi Taka (3.60 USD). In 1965, the targeted number of sterilizations per month was 600-1000 in contrast to the insertion of 25,000 IUDs, which was increased in 1978 to about 50,000 sterilizations per month on average. A 50% rise in the amount paid to men coincided with a doubling of the number of vasectomies between 1980 and 1981. One study done in 1977, when incentives were only equivalent to US $1.10 (at that time), indicated that between 40 and 60% of the men chose vasectomy because of the payment, who otherwise did not have any serious urge to get sterilized. The \"Bangladesh Association for Voluntary Sterilization\", alone performed 67,000 tubal ligations and vasectomies in its 25 clinics in 1982. The rate of sterilization increased 25 percent each year. On 16 December 1982, Bangladesh's military ruler Lieutenant General Hussain Muhammad Ershad launched a two-year mass sterilization program for Bangladeshi women and men. About 3,000 women and men were planned to be sterilized on 16 December 1982 (the opening day). Ershad's government trained 1,200 doctors and 25,000 field workers who must conduct two tubal ligations and two vasectomies each month to earn their salaries. And the government wanted to persuade 1.4 million people, both women and men to undergo sterilization within two years. One population control expert called it 'the largest sterilization program in the world'. By January 1983, 40,000 government field workers were employed in Bangladesh's 65,000 villages to persuade women and men to undergo sterilization and to promote usage of birth-control across the country. Food subsidies under the group feeding program (VGF) were given to only those women with certificates showing that they had undergone tubal ligation. In the 1977 study, a one-year follow-up of 585 men sterilized at vasectomy camps in Shibpur and Shalna in rural Bangladesh showed that almost half of the men were dissatisfied with their vasectomies. 58% of the men said their ability to work had decreased in the last year. 2%–7% of the men said their sexual performance decreases. 30.6% of the Shibpur and 18.9% of the Shalna men experienced severe pain during the vasectomy. The men also said they had not received all of the incentives they had been promised. According to another study on 5042 women and 264 men who underwent sterilization, complications such as painful urination, shaking chills, fever for at least 2 days, frequent urination, bleeding from the incision, sore with pus, stitches or skin breaking open, weakness and dizziness arose after the sterilization. The person's sex, the sponsor and workload in the sterilization center, and the dose of sedatives administered to women were significantly associated with specific postoperative complaints. Five women died during the study, resulting in a death-to-case rate of 9.9/10,000 tubectomies (tubal ligations); four deaths were due to respiratory arrest caused by overuse of sedatives. The death-to-case rate of 9.9/10,000 tubectomies (tubal ligation) in this study is similar to the 10.0 deaths/10,000 cases estimated on the basis of a 1979 follow-up study in an Indian female sterilization camp. The presence of a complaint before the operation was generally a good predictor of postoperative complaints. Centers performing fewer than 200 procedures were associated with more complaints. According to another study based on 20 sterilization-attributable deaths in Dacca (now Dhaka) and Rajshahi Divisions in Bangladesh, from January 1, 1979 to March 31, 1980, overall, the sterilization-attributable death-to-case rate was 21.3 deaths/100,000 sterilizations. The death rate for vasectomy was 1.6 times higher than that for tubal ligation. Anesthesia overdosage was the leading cause of death following tubal ligation along with tetanus (24%), where intraperitoneal hemorrhage (14%), and infection other than tetanus (5%) was other leading causes of death. 2 women (10%) died from pulmonary embolism after tubal ligation; 1 (5%) died from each of the following: anaphylaxis from anti-tetanus serum, heat stroke, small bowel obstruction, and aspiration of vomitus. All 7 men died from scrotal infections after vasectomy. According to a second epidemiologic investigation of deaths attributable to sterilization in Bangladesh, where all deaths resulting from sterilizations performed nationwide between September 16, 1980, and April 15, 1981, were investigated and analyzed, nineteen deaths from tubal ligation were attributed to 153,032 sterilizations (both tubal ligation and vasectomy), for an overall death-to-case rate of 12.4 deaths per 100,000 sterilizations. This rate was lower than that (21.3) for sterilizations performed in Dacca (now Dhaka) and Rajshahi Divisions from January 1, 1979, to March 31, 1980, although this difference was not statistically significant. Anesthesia overdosage, tetanus, and hemorrhage (bleeding) were the leading causes of death. There are reports that often when a woman had to undergo a gastrointestinal surgery, doctors took this opportunity to sterilize her without her knowledge. According to Bangladesh governmental website \"National Emergency Service\", the 2000 Bangladeshi Taka (24 USD) and the sari/lungi given to the persons undergoing sterilizations are their \"compensations\". Where Bangladesh government also assures the poor people that it will cover all medical expenses if complications arise after the sterilization. For the women who are persuaded to have IUD inserted into uterus, the government also offers 150 Bangladeshi Taka (1.80 USD) after the procedure and 80+80+80=240 Bangladeshi Taka (0.96+0.96+0.96=2.88 USD) in 3 followups, where the referrer gets 50 Bangladeshi Taka (0.60 USD). And for the women who are persuaded to have etonogestrel birth control implant placed under the skin in upper arm, the government offers 150 Bangladeshi Taka (1.80 USD) after the procedure and 70+70+70=210 Bangladeshi Taka (0.84+0.84+0.84=2.52 USD) in 3 followups, where the referrer gets 60 Bangladeshi Taka (0.72 USD). These civilian exploitative sterilization programs are funded by the countries from northern Europe and the United States. World bank is also known to have sponsored these civilian exploitative sterilization programs in Bangladesh. Historically, World Bank is known to have pressured 3rd World governments to implement population control programs. Bangladesh is the 8th largest country in the world by population, having a population of 163,466,000 as of 12 November 2017, despite being ranked 94th by total area having an area of 147,570 km². Bangladesh has the highest population density in the world among the countries having at least 10 million population. The capital Dhaka is the 4th most densely populated city in the world, which ranked as the world's 2nd most unlivable city, just behind Damascus, Syria according to the annual \"Liveability Ranking\" 2015 by the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU).\n\nBangladesh is planning to introduce sterilization program in its overcrowded Rohingya refugee camps, where nearly a million refugees are fighting for space, after efforts to encourage birth control failed. Since 25 August 2017, more than 600,000 Rohingya Muslims have been fled from Rakhine state, Myanmar to neighboring Bangladesh, which is a Muslim majority country, following a military crackdown against Rohingya Muslims in Rakhine state, Myanmar. Sabura, a Rohingya mother of seven, said her husband believed the couple could support a large family.\n\n“I spoke to my husband about birth control measures. But he is not convinced. He was given two condoms but he did not use them,” she said.\n\n“My husband said we need more children as we have land and property (in Rakhine). We don’t have to worry to feed them,” she said.\n\nDistrict family planning authorities have managed to distribute just 549 packets of condoms among the refugees, amid reports they are reluctant to use them. They have asked the government to approve a plan to provide vasectomies for men and tubectomies (tubal ligation) for women in the camps.\n\nOne volunteer, Farhana Sultana, said the women she spoke to believed birth control was a sin and others saw it as against the tenets of Islam.\n\nBangladeshi officials say about 20,000 Rohingya refugee women are pregnant and 600 have given birth since arriving in the country, but this may not be accurate as many births take place without formal medical help.\n\nEvery month 250 Bangladeshi people undergo sterilization routinely under government's sterilization program in the border town of Cox’s Bazar, where the Rohingya refugee Muslims have taken shelter.\n\nTwo Canadian provinces (Alberta and British Columbia) performed compulsory sterilization programs in the 20th century with eugenic aims. Canadian compulsory sterilization operated via the same overall mechanisms of institutionalization, judgment, and surgery as the American system. However, one notable difference is in the treatment of non-insane criminals. Canadian legislation never allowed for punitive sterilization of inmates.\n\nThe Sexual Sterilization Act of Alberta was enacted in 1928 and repealed in 1972. In 1995, Leilani Muir sued the Province of Alberta for forcing her to be sterilized against her will and without her permission in 1959. Since Muir’s case, the Alberta government has apologized for the forced sterilization of over 2,800 people. Nearly 850 Albertans who were sterilized under the Sexual Sterilization Act were awarded C$142 million in damages.\n\nAs recently as 2017, a number of Indigenous women were not permitted to see their newborn babies unless they agreed to sterilization. Over 60 women are involved in a lawsuit in this case.\n\nIn 1978, Chinese authorities became concerned with the possibility of a baby boom that the country could not handle, and they initialized the one-child policy. In order to effectively deal with the complex issues surrounding childbirth, the Chinese government placed great emphasis on family planning. Because this was such an important matter, the government thought it needed to be standardized, and so to this end laws were introduced in 2002. These laws uphold the basic tenets of what was previously put into practice, outlining the rights of the individuals and outlining what the Chinese government can and cannot do to enforce policy.\n\nHowever, recently accusations have been raised from groups such as Amnesty International, who have claimed that practices of compulsory sterilization have been occurring for people who have already reached their one child quota. These practices run contrary to the stated principles of the law, and seem to differ on a local level. An especially egregious example, according to Amnesty International, has been occurring in Puning City, Guangdong Province. The sterilization drive in this city was in accordance with regulations outlined by the government in the Population and Family Planning Law of 2002. This drive, also known as the Iron Fist Campaign, also is said to have used coercive methods in order to ensure that close to 10,000 women were sterilized, including detaining elderly family members. It is unclear whether support of the increase of the now 90% Han Chinese majority here plays a role\n\nThe Chinese government appears to be aware of these discrepancies in policy implementation on a local level. For example, The National Population and Family Planning Commission put forth in a statement that, “Some persons concerned in a few counties and townships of Linyi did commit practices that violated law and infringed upon legitimate rights and interests of citizens while conducting family planning work.” This statement comes in reference to some charges of forced sterilization and abortions in Linyi city of Shandong Province. However, it remains unclear to what extent the government has prosecuted or disciplined the officials in charge of family planning in the country.\n\nThe policy requires a \"social compensation fee\" for those who have more than the legal number of children. According to Forbes editor Heng Shao, critics claims this fee is a toll on the poor but not the rich. There are cases registered in the Chinese legal system (cf. Si Bu Tuo Zhe Renmin) which could prove infractions in the field.\nUntil June 11, 2014, sterilization was requisite for legal sex change in Denmark.\n\nOne of the first acts by Adolf Hitler after the Reichstag Fire Decree and the Enabling Act of 1933 gave him de facto legal dictatorship over the German state was to pass the Law for the Prevention of Hereditarily Diseased Offspring (\"Gesetz zur Verhütung erbkranken Nachwuchses\") in July 1933. The law was signed by Hitler himself, and over 200 eugenic courts were created specifically as a result of this law. Under it, all doctors in the Third Reich were required to report any patients of theirs who were deemed intellectually disabled, characterized mentally ill (including schizophrenia and manic depression), epileptic, blind, deaf, or physically deformed, and a steep monetary penalty was imposed for any patients who were not properly reported. Individuals suffering from alcoholism or Huntington's Disease could also be sterilized. The individual's case was then presented in front of a court of Nazi officials and public health officers who would review their medical records, take testimony from friends and colleagues, and eventually decide whether or not to order a sterilization operation performed on the individual, using force if necessary. Though not explicitly covered by the law, 400 mixed-race \"Rhineland Bastards\" were also sterilized beginning in 1937. The sterilization program went on until the war started, with about 600,000 people sterilized.\n\nBy the end of World War II, over 400,000 individuals were sterilised under the German law and its revisions, most within its first four years of being enacted. When the issue of compulsory sterilisation was brought up at the Nuremberg trials after the war, many Nazis defended their actions on the matter by indicating that it was the United States itself from whom they had taken inspiration. The Nazis had many other eugenics-inspired racial policies, including their \"euthanasia\" programme in which around 70,000 people institutionalised or suffering from birth defects were killed.\n\nIndia's state of emergency between 1975 and 1977 included a family planning initiative that began in April 1976 through which the government hoped to lower India's ever increasing population. This program used propaganda and monetary incentives to, some may construe, inveigle citizens to get sterilized. People who agreed to get sterilized would receive land, housing, and money or loans. Because of this program, thousands of men received vasectomies and even more women received tubal ligations, both possibly reversible. However, the program focused more on sterilizing women than men. An article in The New York Times titled “For Sterilization, Target Is Women” states, “There were 114,426 vasectomies in India in 2002-03, and 4.6 million tubal ligations, the analogous operation on women, though ligation is a more complicated operation.” Son of the Prime Minister at the time Indira Gandhi, Sanjay Gandhi was largely blamed for what turned out to be a failed program. A strong backlash against any initiative associated with family planning followed the highly controversial program, the backlash of which continues into the 21st century.\n\nIn the late 2000s, reports in the Israeli media claimed that injections of long-acting contraceptive Depo-Provera had been forced on hundreds of Ethiopian-Jewish immigrants both in transit camps in Ethiopia and after their arrival in Israel. In 2009, feminist NGO Haifa Women's Coalition published a first survey on the story, which was followed up by Israeli Educational Television a few years later. Ethiopian-Jewish women said they were intimidated or tricked into taking the shot every three months, sometimes presented to them as vaccine. In 2016 Israel's State Comptroller concluded his inquiry into the affair by claiming that injections of Depo-Provera had not been forced on the women; however, the Comptroller had refused to hear complainants' testimony, and his probe into the role of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee (JDC), whose activists had looked after the women in the Ethiopian transit camps, left open questions, since the JDC official who had handled family programming in Ethiopia refused to give the Comptroller any information.\n\nIn the first part of the Shōwa era, Japanese governments promoted increasing the number of healthy Japanese, while simultaneously decreasing the number of people deemed to have mental retardation, disability, genetic disease and other conditions that led to inferiority in the Japanese gene pool.\n\nThe \"Leprosy Prevention laws\" of 1907, 1931 and 1953, permitted the segregation of patients in sanitariums where forced abortions and sterilization were common and authorized punishment of patients \"disturbing peace\". Under the colonial Korean \"Leprosy prevention ordinance\", Korean patients were also subjected to hard labor.\n\nThe \"Race Eugenic Protection Law\" was submitted from 1934 to 1938 to the Diet. After four amendments, this draft was promulgated as a \"National Eugenic Law\" in 1940 by the Konoe government. According to Matsubara Yoko, from 1940 to 1945, sterilization was done to 454 Japanese persons under this law. Appx. 800,000 people were surgically processed until 1995.\n\nAccording to the \"Eugenic Protection Law\" (1948), sterilization could be enforced on criminals \"with genetic predisposition to commit crime\", patients with genetic diseases including mild ones such as total color-blindness, hemophilia, albinism and ichthyosis, and mental affections such as schizophrenia, manic-depression possibly deemed occurrent in their opposition and epilepsy, the sickness of Caesar. The mental sicknesses were added in 1952.\n\nIn Peru, President Alberto Fujimori (in office from 1990 to 2000) has been accused of genocide and crimes against humanity as a result of the \"Programa Nacional de Población\", a sterilization program put in place by his administration. During his presidency, Fujimori put in place a program of forced sterilizations against indigenous people (mainly the Quechuas and the Aymaras), in the name of a \"public health plan\", presented on July 28, 1995. The plan was principally financed using funds from USAID (36 million dollars), the Nippon Foundation, and later, the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA). On September 9, 1995, Fujimori presented a Bill that would revise the \"General Law of Population\", in order to allow sterilization. Several contraceptive methods were also legalized, all measures that were strongly opposed by the Roman Catholic Church, as well as the Catholic organization Opus Dei. In February 1996, the World Health Organization (WHO) itself congratulated Fujimori on his success in controlling demographic growth.\n\nOn February 25, 1998, a representative for USAID testified before the U.S. government's House Committee on International Relations, to address controversy surrounding Peru's program. He indicated that the government of Peru was making important changes to the program, in order to:\n\n\nIn September 2001, Minister of Health Luis Solari launched a special commission into the activities of the voluntary surgical contraception, initiating a parliamentary commission tasked with inquiring into the \"irregularities\" of the program, and to put it on an acceptable footing. In July 2002, its final report ordered by the Minister of Health revealed that between 1995 and 2000, 331,600 women were sterilized, while 25,590 men submitted to vasectomies. The plan, which had the objective of diminishing the number of births in areas of poverty within Peru, was essentially directed at the indigenous people living in deprived areas (areas often involved in internal conflicts with the Peruvian government, as with the Shining Path guerilla group). Deputy Dora Núñez Dávila made the accusation in September 2003 that 400,000 indigenous people were sterilized during the 1990s. Documents proved that President Fujimori was informed, each month, of the number of sterilizations done, by his former Ministers of Health, Eduardo Yong Motta (1994–96), Marino Costa Bauer (1996–1999) and Alejandro Aguinaga (1999–2000). A study by sociologist , \"Nada Personal\" (in English: Nothing Personal), showed that doctors were required to meet quotas. According to \"Le Monde diplomatique\", \"tubal ligation festivals\" were organized through program publicity campaigns, held in the \"pueblos jóvenes\" (in English: shantytowns). In 1996 there were, according to official statistics, 81,762 tubal ligations performed on women, with a peak being reached the following year, with 109,689 ligatures, then only 25,995 in 1998.\n\nOn October 21, 2011, Peru's Attorney General José Bardales decided to reopen an investigation into the cases, which had been halted in 2009 under the statute of limitations, after the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights ruled that President Fujimori’s sterilization program involved crimes against humanity, which are not time-limited. It is unclear as to any progress in matter of the execution (debido ejecución sumaria) of the suspect in the course of any proof of their relevant accusations in the legal sphere of the constituted people in vindication of the rights of the people of South America. It may carry a parallel to any suspect cases for international investigation in any other continent, and be in the sphere of medical genocide.\n\nIn 2008, the Perm Krai ombudswoman Tatyana Margolina reported that 14 women with disabilities were subjected to compulsory medical sterilization in the Ozyorskiy psychoneurological nursing home whose director was Grigory Bannikov. The sterilizations were performed not on the basis of a mandatory court decision appropriate for them, but only on the basis of the application by the guardian Bannikov. On 2 December 2010, the court did not find corpus delicti in the compulsory medical sterilizations performed by his consent. The order by the health minister of the Russian Federation that was issued in 1993 and neatly determined the procedure of forced abortion and sterilization of women with disabilities was repealed by the head of Ministry of Health and Social Development of the Russian Federation Tatyana Golikova in 2009. Therefore, now women can be subjected to compulsory sterilization without court decision, according to Tatyana Margolina, which may place some types of people within their nation at risk. In Russia, one of the supporters of preventive eugenics is the president of the Independent Psychiatric Association of Russia Yuri Savenko, who justifies forced sterilization of women, which is practiced in Moscow psychoneurological nursing homes, and states that “one needs a more strictly adjusted and open control for the practice of preventive eugenics, which, in itself, is, in its turn, justifiable.”\n\nIn South Africa, there have been multiple reports of HIV-positive women sterilized without their informed consent and sometimes without their knowledge.\n\nThe eugenistic legislation was enacted in 1934 and was formally abolished in 1976. According to the 2000 governmental report, 21,000 were estimated to have been forcibly sterilized, 6,000 were coerced into a 'voluntary' sterilization while the nature of a further 4,000 cases could not be determined. The Swedish state subsequently paid out damages to victims who contacted the authorities and asked for compensation. Of those sterilized 93% were women.\n\nIn October 1999, Margrith von Felten suggested to the National Council of Switzerland in the form of a general proposal to adopt legal regulations that would enable reparation for persons sterilized against their will. According to the proposal, reparation was to be provided to persons who had undergone the intervention without their consent or who had consented to sterilization under coercion. According to Margrith von Felten:\nSwitzerland refused, however, to vote a reparations Act.\n\nThe United States during the Progressive era, ca. 1890 to 1920, was the first country to concertedly undertake compulsory sterilization programs for the purpose of eugenics. Thomas C. Leonard, professor at Princeton University, describes American eugenics and sterilization as ultimately rooted in economic arguments and further as a central element of Progressivism alongside wage controls, restricted immigration, and the introduction of pension programs. The heads of the programs were avid proponents of eugenics and frequently argued for their programs which achieved some success nationwide mainly in the first half of the 20th Century.\n\nEugenics had two essential components. First, its advocates accepted as axiomatic that a range of mental and physical handicaps—blindness, deafness, and many forms of mental illness—were largely, if not entirely, hereditary in cause. Second, they assumed that these scientific hypotheses could be used as the basis of social engineering across several policy areas, including family planning, education, and immigration. The most direct policy implications of eugenic thought were that “mental defectives” should not produce children, since they would only replicate these deficiencies, and that such individuals from other countries should be kept out of the polity. The principal targets of the American sterilization programs were the intellectually disabled and the mentally ill, but also targeted under many state laws were the deaf, the blind, people with epilepsy, and the physically deformed. While the claim was that the focus was mainly the mentally ill and disabled, the definition of this during that time was much different than today's. At this time, there were many women that were sent to institutions under the guise of being “feeble-minded\" because they were promiscuous or became pregnant while unmarried.\n\nSome sterilizations took place in prisons and other penal institutions, targeting criminality, but they were in the relative minority. In the end, over 65,000 individuals were sterilized in 33 states under state compulsory sterilization programs in the United States, in all likelihood without the perspectives of ethnic minorities.\n\nThe first state to introduce a compulsory sterilization bill was Michigan, in 1897, but the proposed law failed to pass. Eight years later Pennsylvania's state legislators passed a sterilization bill that was vetoed by the governor. Indiana became the first state to enact sterilization legislation in 1907, followed closely by California and Washington in 1909. Several other states followed, but such legislation remained controversial enough to be defeated in some cases, as in Wyoming in 1934. Sterilization rates across the country were relatively low, with the sole exception of California, until the 1927 U.S. Supreme Court decision in \"Buck v. Bell\" which legitimized the forced sterilization of patients at a Virginia home for the intellectually disabled. In the wake of that decision, over 62,000 people in the United States, most of them women, were sterilized. The number of sterilizations performed per year increased until another Supreme Court case, \"Skinner v. Oklahoma\", 1942, complicated the legal situation by ruling against sterilization of criminals if the equal protection clause of the constitution was violated. That is, if sterilization was to be performed, then it could not exempt white-collar criminals.\n\nAfter World War II, public opinion towards eugenics and sterilization programs became more negative in the light of the connection with the genocidal policies of Nazi Germany, though a significant number of sterilizations continued in a few states through the 1970s. The Oregon Board of Eugenics, later renamed the Board of Social Protection, existed until 1983, with the last forcible sterilization occurring in 1981. The U.S. commonwealth Puerto Rico had a sterilization program as well. Some states continued to have sterilization laws on the books for much longer after that, though they were rarely if ever used. California sterilized more than any other state by a wide margin, and was responsible for over a third of all sterilization operations. Information about the California sterilization program was produced into book form and widely disseminated by eugenicists E.S. Gosney and Paul B. Popenoe, which was said by the government of Adolf Hitler to be of key importance in proving that large-scale compulsory sterilization programs were feasible.\nIn recent years, the governors of many states have made public apologies for their past programs beginning with Virginia and followed by Oregon and California. Few have offered to compensate those sterilized, however, citing that few are likely still living (and would of course have no affected offspring) and that inadequate records remain by which to verify them. At least one compensation case, \"Poe v. Lynchburg Training School & Hospital\" (1981), was filed in the courts on the grounds that the sterilization law was unconstitutional. It was rejected because the law was no longer in effect at the time of the filing. However, the petitioners were granted some compensation because the stipulations of the law itself, which required informing the patients about their operations, had not been carried out in many cases.\n\nThe 27 states where sterilization laws remained on the books (though not all were still in use) in 1956 were: Arizona, California, Connecticut, Delaware, Georgia, Idaho, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Maine, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Montana, Nebraska, New Hampshire, North Carolina, North Dakota, Oklahoma, Oregon, South Carolina, South Dakota, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia and Wisconsin. Some states still have forced sterilization laws in effect, such as Washington state.\n\nAs of January 2011, discussions were underway regarding compensation for the victims of forced sterilization under the authorization of the Eugenics Board of North Carolina. Governor Bev Perdue formed the NC Justice for Sterilization Victims Foundation in 2010 in order \"to provide justice and compensate victims who were forcibly sterilized by the State of North Carolina\". In 2013 North Carolina announced that it would spend $10 million beginning in June 2015 to compensate men and women who were sterilized in the state's eugenics program; North Carolina sterilized 7,600 people from 1929 to 1974 who were deemed socially or mentally unfit.\n\nThe Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) believes that mental disability is not a reason to deny sterilization. The opinion of ACOG is that \"the physician must consult with the patient’s family, agents, and other caregivers\" if sterilization is desired for a mentally limited patient. In 2003, Douglas Diekema wrote in Volume 9 of the journal Mental Retardation and Developmental Disabilities Research Reviews that \"involuntary sterilization ought not be performed on mentally retarded persons who retain the capacity for reproductive decision-making, the ability to raise a child, or the capacity to provide valid consent to marriage.\" The Journal of Medical Ethics claimed, in a 1999 article, that doctors are regularly confronted with request to sterilize mentally limited people who cannot give consent for themselves. The article recommend that sterilization should only occur when there is a \"situation of necessity\" and the \"benefits of sterilization outweigh the drawbacks.\" The American Journal of Bioethics published an article, in 2010, that concluded the interventions used in the Ashley treatment may benefit future patients. These interventions, at the request of the parents and guidance from the physicians, included a hysterectomy and surgical removal of the breast buds of the mentally and physically disabled child.\n\nThe inability to pay for the cost of raising children has been a reason courts have ordered coercive or compulsory sterilization. In June 2014, a Virginia judge ruled that a man on probation for child endangerment must be able to pay for his seven children before having more children; the man agreed to get a vasectomy as part of his plea deal. In 2013, an Ohio judge ordered a man owing nearly $100,000 in unpaid child support to \"make all reasonable efforts to avoid impregnating a woman\" as a condition of his probation. Kevin Maillard wrote that conditioning the right to reproduction on meeting child support obligations amounts to \"constructive sterilization\" for men unlikely to make the payments.\n\n148 female prisoners in two California institutions were sterilized between 2006 and 2010 in a supposedly voluntary program, but it was determined that the prisoners did not give consent to the procedures. In September 2014, California enacted Bill SB 1135 that bans sterilization in correctional facilities, unless the procedure shall be required in a medical emergency to preserve inmate's life.\n\nDiscussions have yet to begin regarding compensation for victims of forced sterilization in other states.\n\nPuerto Rican physician, Dr. Lanauze Rolón, founded the League for Birth Control in Ponce, Puerto Rico in 1925, but the League was quickly squashed by opposition from the Catholic church. A similar League was founded seven years later, in 1932, in San Juan, Puerto Rico and continued in operation for two years before opposition and lack of support forced its closure. Yet another effort at establishing birth control clinics was made in 1934 by the Federal Emergency Relief Administration in a relief response to the conditions of the Great Depression. As a part of this effort, 68 birth control clinics were opened on the island. The next mass opening of clinics occurred in January 1937 when American Dr. Clarence Gamble, in association with a group of wealthy and influential Puerto Ricans, organized the Maternal and Infant Health Association and opened 22 birth control clinics.\n\nThe Governor of Puerto Rico, Menendez Ramos, enacted Law 116, which went into effect on May 13, 1937. It was a birth control and eugenic sterilization law that allowed the dissemination of information regarding birth control methods as well as legalized the practice of birth control. The government cited a growing population of the poor and unemployed as motivators for the law. Abortion remained heavily restricted. By 1965, approximately 34 percent of women of childbearing age had been sterilized, two thirds of whom were still in their early twenties The law was repealed on June 8, 1960.\n\nUnemployment and widespread poverty would continue to grow in Puerto Rico in the 40s, threatening both U.S. private investment in Puerto Rico and acting as a deterrent for future investment. In an attempt to attract additional U.S. private investment in Puerto Rico, another round of liberalizing trade policies were implemented and referred to as “Operation Bootstrap.” Despite these policies and their relative success, unemployment and poverty in Puerto Rico remained high, high enough to prompt an increase in emigration from Puerto Rico to the United States between 1950 and 1955. The issues of immigration, Puerto Rican poverty, and threats to U.S. private investment made population control concerns a prime political and social issue for the United States.\n\nThe 50s also saw the production of social science research supporting sterilization procedures in Puerto Rico. Princeton’s Office of Population Research, in collaboration with the Social Research Department at the University of Puerto Rico, conducted interviews with couples regarding sterilization and other birth control. Their studies concluded that there was a significant need and desire for permanent birth control among Puerto Ricans. In response, Puerto Rico’s governor and Commissioner of health opened 160 private, temporary birth control clinics with the specific purpose of sterilization.\n\nAlso during this era, private birth control clinics were established in Puerto Rico with funds provided by wealthy Americans. Joseph Sunnen, a wealthy American Republican and industrialist, established the Sunnen Foundation in 1957. The foundation funded new birth control clinics under the title “La Asociación Puertorriqueña el Biensestar de la Familia” and spent hundreds of thousands of dollars in an experimental project to determine if a formulaic program could be used to control population growth in Puerto Rico and beyond.\n\nFrom beginning of the 1900s, U.S. and Puerto Rican governments espoused rhetoric connecting the poverty of Puerto Rico with overpopulation and the “hyper-fertility” of Puerto Ricans. Such rhetoric combined with eugenics ideology of reducing “population growth among a particular class or ethnic group because they are considered...a social burden,” was the philosophical basis for the 1937 birth control legislation enacted in Puerto Rico. A Puerto Rican Eugenics Board, modeled after a similar board in the United States, was created as part of the bill, and officially ordered ninety-seven involuntary sterilizations.\n\nThe legalization of sterilization was followed by a steady increase in the popularity of the procedure, both among the Puerto Rican population and among physicians working in Puerto Rico. Though sterilization could be performed on men and women, women were most likely to undergo the procedure. Sterilization was most frequently recommended by physicians because of a pervasive belief that Puerto Ricans and the poor were not intelligent enough to use other forms of contraception. Physicians and hospitals alike also implemented hospital policy to encourage sterilization, with some hospitals refusing to admit healthy pregnant women for delivery unless they consented to be sterilized. This has been best documented at Presbyterian Hospital, where the unofficial policy for a time was to refuse admittance for delivery to women who already had three living children unless she consented to sterilization. There is additional evidence that true informed consent was not obtained from patients before they underwent sterilization, if consent was solicited at all.\n\nBy 1949 a survey of Puerto Rican women found that 21% of women interviewed had been sterilized, with sterilizations being performed in 18% of all hospital births statewide as a routine post-partum procedure, with the sterilization operation performed before women left the hospitals after giving birth. As for the birth control clinics founded by Sunnen, the Puerto Rican Family Planning Association reported that around 8,000 women and 3,000 men had been sterilized in Sunnen's privately funded clinics. At one point, the levels of sterilization in Puerto Rico were so high that they alarmed the Joint Committee for Hospital Accreditation, who then demanded that Puerto Rican hospitals limit sterilizations to ten percent of all hospital deliveries in order to receive accreditation. The high popularity of sterilization continued into the 60s and 70s, during which the Puerto Rican government made the procedures available for free and reduced fees. The effects of the sterilization and contraception campaigns of the 1900s in Puerto Rico are still felt in Puerto Rican cultural history today.\n\nThere has been much debate and scholarly analysis concerning the legitimacy of choice given to Puerto Rican women with regards to sterilization, reproduction, and birth control, as well as with the ethics of economically motivated mass sterilization programs.\n\nSome scholars, such as Bonnie Mass and Iris Lopez, have argued that the history and popularity of mass sterilization in Puerto Rico represents a government-led eugenics initiative for population control., They cite the private and government funding of sterilization, coercive practices, and the eugenics ideology of Puerto Rican and American governments and physicians as evidence of a mass sterilization campaign.\n\nOn the other side of the debate, scholars like Laura Briggs have argued that evidence does not substantiate claims of a mass sterilization program. She further argues that reducing the popularity of sterilization in Puerto Rico to a state initiative ignores the legacy of Puerto Rican feminist activism in favor or birth control legalization and the individual agency of Puerto Rican women in making decisions about family planning.\n\nWhen the United States took census of Puerto Rico in 1899, the birth rate was 40 births per one thousand people. By 1961, the birth rate had dropped to 30.8 per thousand. In 1955, 16.5% of Puerto Rican women of childbearing age had been sterilized, this jumped to 34% in 1965.\n\nIn 1969, sociologist Harriet Presser analyzed the 1965 Master Sample Survey of Health and Welfare in Puerto Rico. She specifically analyzed data from the survey for women ages 20 to 49 who had at least one birth, resulting in an overall sample size of 1,071 women. She found that over 34% of women aged 20–49 had been sterilized in Puerto Rico in 1965.\n\nPresser’s analysis also found that 46.7% of women who reported they were sterilized were between the ages of 34 and 39. Of the sample of women sterilized, 46.6% had been married 15 to 19 years, 43.9% had been married for 10 to 14 years, and 42.7% had been married for 20 to 24 years. Nearly 50% of women sterilized had three or four births. Over 1/3 of women who reported being sterilized were sterilized in their twenties, with the average age of sterilization being 26.\n\nA survey by a team of Americans in 1975 confirmed Presser's assessment that nearly 1/3 of Puerto Rican women of childbearing age had been sterilized. As of 1977, Puerto Rico had the highest proportion of childbearing-aged persons sterilized in the world. In 1993, ethnographic work done in New York by anthropologist Iris Lopez showed that the history of sterilization continued to effect the lives of Puerto Rican women even after they immigrated to the United States and lived there for generations. The history of the popularity of sterilization in Puerto Rico meant that Puerto Rican women living in America had high rates of female family members who had undergone sterilization, and it remained a highly popular form of birth control among Puerto Rican women living in New York.\n\n“Civil Society Organizations such as Balance, Promocion para el Desarrollo y Juventud, A.C., have received in the last years numerous testimonies of women living with HIV in which they inform that misinformation about the virus transmission has frequently lead to compulsory sterilization. Although there is enough evidence regarding the effectiveness of interventions aimed to reduce mother-to-child transmission risks, there are records of HIV-positive women forced to undergo sterilization or have agreed to be sterilized without adequate and sufficient information about their options.”\n\n“A report made in El Salvador, Honduras, Mexico, and Nicaragua concluded that women living with HIV, and whose health providers knew about it at the time of pregnancy, were six times more likely to experience forced or coerced sterilization in those countries. In addition, most of these women reported that health providers told them that living with HIV cancelled their right to choose the number and spacing of the children they want to have as well as the right to choose the contraceptive method of their choice; provided misleading information about the consequences for their health and that of their children and denied them access to treatments that reduce mother-to-child HIV transmission in order to coerce them into sterilization.\n\nThis happens even when the health norm NOM 005-SSA2-1993 states that family planning is “the right of everyone to decide freely, responsibly and in an informed way the number and spacing of their children and to obtain specialized information and proper services” and that “the exercise of this right is independent of gender, age, and social or legal status of persons”.\n\nAccording to reports, , forced and coerced sterilization are current Government policy in Uzbekistan for women with two or three children as a means of forcing population control and to improve maternal mortality rates. In November 2007, a report by the United Nations Committee Against Torture reported that \"the large number of cases of forced sterilization and removal of reproductive organs of women at reproductive age after their first or second pregnancy indicate that the Uzbek government is trying to control the birth rate in the country\" and noted that such actions were not against the national Criminal Code in response to which the Uzbek delegation to the associated conference was \"puzzled by the suggestion of forced sterilization, and could not see how this could be enforced.\"\n\nReports of forced sterilizations, hysterectomies and IUD insertions first emerged in 2005, although it is reported that the practice originated in the late 1990s, with reports of a secret decree dating from 2000. The current policy was allegedly instituted by Islam Karimov under Presidential Decree PP-1096, \"on additional measures to protect the health of the mother and child, the formation of a healthy generation\" which came into force in 2009. In 2005 Deputy Health Minister Assomidin Ismoilov confirmed that doctors in Uzbekistan were being held responsible for increased birth rates.\n\nBased on a report by journalist Natalia Antelava, doctors reported that the Ministry of Health told doctors they must perform surgical sterilizations on women. One doctor reported, “It's ruling number 1098 and it says that after two children, in some areas after three, a woman should be sterilized.”, in a loss of the former surface decency of Central Asian mores in regard of female chastity. In 2010, the Ministry of Health passed a decree stating all clinics in Uzbekistan should have sterilization equipment ready for use. The same report also states that sterilization is to be done on a voluntary basis with the informed consent of the patient. In the 2010 Human Rights Report of Uzbekistan, there were many reports of forced sterilization of women along with allegations of the government pressuring doctors to sterilize women in order to control the population. Doctors also reported to Antelava that there are quotas they must reach every month on how many women they need to sterilize. These orders are passed on to them through their bosses and, allegedly, from the government.\n\nOn May 15, 2012, during a meeting with the Russian president Vladimir Putin in Moscow the Uzbek president Islam Karimov said: \"we are doing everything in our hands to make sure that the population growth rate [in Uzbekistan] does not exceed 1.2-1.3\"<ref name=\"RFE/RL\"></ref> The Uzbek version of RFE/RL reported that with this statement Karimov indirectly admitted that forced sterilization of women is indeed taking place in Uzbekistan. The main Uzbek television channel, O'zbekiston, cut out Karimov's statement about the population growth rate while broadcasting his conversation with Putin.\nIt is unclear if there is any genocidal conspiracy in regard of the Mongol type involved, in connection with genetic drain of this type through lack of their reproduction.\n\nDespite international agreement concerning the inhumanity and illegality of forced sterilization, it has been suggested that the Government of Uzbekistan continues to pursue such programs.\n\nEugenics programs including forced sterilization existed in most Northern European countries, as well as other more or less Protestant countries. Other countries that had notably active sterilisation programmes include Denmark, Norway, Finland, Estonia, Switzerland, Iceland, and some countries in Latin America (including Panama).\n\nIn the United Kingdom, Home Secretary Winston Churchill was a noted advocate, and his successor Reginald McKenna introduced a bill that included forced sterilisation. Writer G. K. Chesterton led a successful effort to defeat that clause of the 1913 Mental Deficiency Act.\n\nIn 2015, the Court of Protection of the United Kingdom ruled that a woman with six children and an IQ of 70 should be sterilized for her own safety because another pregnancy would have been a \"significantly life-threatening event\" for her and the fetus.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "996149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=996149", "title": "Cultural system", "text": "Cultural system\n\nA cultural system, is the interaction of different elements in culture. While a cultural system is very different from a social system, sometimes both systems together are referred to as the sociocultural system.\n\nA major concern in the social sciences is the problem of order. One way that social order has been theorized is according to the degree of integration of cultural and social factors.\n\nTalcott Parsons, a major figure in sociology, who was the main originator of action theory in the early 20th century, based his sociological theory of action system is built up around a general theory of society, which is codified within a cybernetic model featuring four functional imperatives: adaptation, goal-attainment, integration, and pattern maintenance. The hierarchy of systems is, from least to most encompassing system, respectively, behavioral organism, personality system, social system, and cultural system as well. Ritzer and Goodman (2004) summarize Parsons view, \"Parsons saw these action systems acting at different levels of analysis, starting with the behavioral organism and building to the cultural system. He saw these levels hierarchically, with each of the lower levels providing the impetus for the higher levels, with the higher levels controlling the lower levels.\" In an article, late in life, Parsons maintained that the term \"functionalism\" was an inappropriate characterization of his theory.\n\nThe British Sociologist David Lockwood argued for a contrast between social content and social transmission in his work on social structure and agency. Noting that social systems were distinct in structure and transmission. Lockwood's conceptual distinction influenced Jürgen Habermas' discussion in the classic \"Legitimation Crises\", who made the now famous distinction between system integration and social integration of the lifeworld.\n\nMargaret Archer (2004) in a revised edition of her classic work \"Culture and Agency\", argues that the grand idea of a unified, integrated culture system, as advocated by early Anthropologists such as Bronisław Malinowski and later by Mary Douglas, is a myth. Archer reads this same myth through Pitirim Sorokin's influence and then Talcott Parsons' approach to cultural systems (2004:3). The myth of a unified, integrated cultural system was also advanced by Western Marxists such as by Antonio Gramsci through the theory of cultural hegemony through a dominant culture. Basic to these mistaken conceptions was the idea of culture as a community of meanings, which function independently in motivating social behavior. This combined two independent factors, community and meanings which can be investigated quasi-independently (2004:4)\n\nArcher, a proponent of critical realism, suggests that cultural factors can be objectively studied for the degree of compatibility (and that various aspects of cultural systems may be found to contradict each other in meaning and use). And, social or community factors in socialization may be studied in the context of the transmission of cultural factors by studying the social uniformity (or lack thereof) in the transmitted culture. Cultural systems are used (and inform society) both through idea systems and the structuring of social systems. To quote Archer in this regard:\n\nArcher notes that the opposite may be the case: low cultural logical consistency and high social consistency. Complex societies can include complex sociocultural systems that mix of cultural and social factors with various levels of contradiction and consistency.\n\nAccording to Burrowes (1996), in two recent approaches to the study of culture, in the 1980-1990s, the \"cultural studies\" and \"cultural indicators\" approaches, investigators explored the traditionally functionalist concern of \"cultural systems integration.\" These two approaches could be synthesized in the investigating cultural systems. Burrowes (1996) writes, \"If functionalism offers to this cross-fertilization a focus on the normative orders of society, the cultural indicators approach provides a rigorous methodology, and cultural studies caution a greater sensitivity to social hierarchies.\" Constrained by Merton's middle range theory [note: to be discussed here], the specification of cultural elements and social structures makes possible the investigation of specific cultural and social systems and their interaction.\n\n"}
{"id": "209966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=209966", "title": "Daniel Goleman", "text": "Daniel Goleman\n\nDaniel Goleman (born March 7, 1946) is an author and science journalist. For twelve years, he wrote for \"The New York Times\", reporting on the brain and behavioral sciences. His 1995 book \"Emotional Intelligence\" was on \"The New York Times\" Best Seller list for a year-and-a-half, a best-seller in many countries, and is in print worldwide in 40 languages. Apart from his books on emotional intelligence, Goleman has written books on topics including self-deception, creativity, transparency, meditation, social and emotional learning, ecoliteracy and the ecological crisis, and the Dalai Lama’s vision for the future.\n\nDaniel Goleman grew up in a Jewish household in Stockton, California, the son of Fay Goleman (née Weinberg; 1910–2010), professor of sociology at the University of the Pacific, and Irving Goleman (1898–1961), humanities professor at the Stockton College (now San Joaquin Delta College). His mother's brother was nuclear physicist Alvin M. Weinberg.\n\nGoleman studied in India using a pre-doctoral fellowship from Harvard and a post-doctoral grant from the Social Science Research Council. While in India, he spent time with spiritual teacher Neem Karoli Baba, who was also the guru to Ram Dass, Krishna Das and Larry Brilliant. He wrote his first book based on travel in India and Sri Lanka.\n\nGoleman then returned as a visiting lecturer to Harvard, where during the 1970s his course on the psychology of consciousness was popular. David McClelland, his mentor at Harvard, recommended him for a job at \"Psychology Today\", from which he was recruited by \"The New York Times\" in 1984.\n\nGoleman co-founded the Collaborative for Academic, Social, and Emotional Learning at Yale University's Child Studies Center, which then moved to the University of Illinois at Chicago. Currently he co-directs the Consortium for Research on Emotional Intelligence in Organizations at Rutgers University. He sits on the board of the Mind & Life Institute.\n\nGoleman authored the internationally best-selling book \"Emotional Intelligence\" (1995, Bantam Books), which spent more than one-and-a-half years on \"The New York Times\" Best Seller list. In \"Working with Emotional Intelligence\" (1998, Bantam Books), Goleman developed the argument that non-cognitive skills can matter as much as IQ for workplace success, and made a similar argument for leadership effectiveness in \"Primal Leadership\" (2001, Harvard Business School Press). Goleman's most recent best-seller is \"Focus: The Hidden Driver of Excellence\" (Harper, 2013).\n\nIn his first book, \"The Varieties of Meditative Experience\" (1977) (republished in 1988 as \"The Meditative Mind\"), Goleman describes almost a dozen different meditation systems. He wrote that \"the need for the meditator to retrain his attention, whether through concentration or mindfulness, is the single invariant ingredient in the recipe for altering consciousness of every meditation system\".\n\nGoleman has received many awards, including: \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2012721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2012721", "title": "Deva (New Age)", "text": "Deva (New Age)\n\nA deva in the New Age movement refers to any of the spiritual forces or beings behind nature. The origin of the word 'deva' comes from the Sanskrit language. According to Theosophist Charles Webster Leadbeater devas represent a separate evolution to that of humanity. The concept of devas as nature-spirits was further developed in the writings of Theosophist Geoffrey Hodson. It is believed that there are numerous different types of devas with a population in the millions performing different functions on Earth to help the ecology function better. It is asserted they can be observed by those whose third eyes have been activated.\n\nIn addition, it is believed by Theosophists that there are millions of devas living inside the Sun, the indwelling solar deity of which Theosophists call the \"Solar Logos\"—these devas are called \"solar angels\", or sometimes \"solar devas\" or \"solar spirits\". Sometimes, it is believed, they visit Earth and can be observed, like other devas, by humans whose third eyes have been activated. Theosophists believe that there are also devas living inside all the other stars besides Sol; these are called \"stellar angels\".\n\nIn the Findhorn material, the term refers to archetypal spiritual intelligences behind species, in other words the group soul of a species.\n\nSome New Age sources use the term as a generic term to designate any being regarded as being composed of etheric matter--elementals, nature spirits (including the various types of nature spirits such as fairies, ondines, etc.). The pre-New Age etymology of the term is described in the article Deva (Hinduism).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12002936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12002936", "title": "Displacement–length ratio", "text": "Displacement–length ratio\n\nThe displacement–length ratio (DLR or D/L ratio) is a calculation used to express how heavy a boat is relative to its waterline length. (Rousmaniere, 1999)\n\nA DLR is calculated by dividing a boat's displacement in long tons (2,240 pounds) by the cube of one one-hundredth of the waterline length (in feet):\n\nThe DLR can be used to compare the relative mass of various boats no matter what their length. A DLR less than 200 is indicative of a racing boat, while a DLR greater than 300 or so is indicative of a heavy cruising boat.\n\n"}
{"id": "1147032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1147032", "title": "Doctrine of equivalents", "text": "Doctrine of equivalents\n\nThe doctrine of equivalents is a legal rule in many (but not all) of the world's patent systems that allows a court to hold a party liable for patent infringement even though the infringing device or process does not fall within the literal scope of a patent claim, but nevertheless is equivalent to the claimed invention. U.S. Judge Learned Hand has described its purpose as being \"to temper unsparing logic and prevent an infringer from stealing the benefit of the invention\".\n\nGerman courts typically apply a three-step test known as Schneidmesser's questions. These questions are:\n\nAll of the above questions need to be answered in the affirmative in order to demonstrate equivalent infringement. In addition, an allegation of equivalent infringement needs to withstand the Formstein test. The corresponding question reads:\n\nIreland appears to subscribe to a doctrine of equivalents. In \"Farbwerke Hoechst v Intercontinental Pharmaceuticals (Eire) Ltd\" (1968), a case involving a patent of a chemical process, the High Court found that the defendant had infringed the plaintiff's patent despite the fact that the defendant had substituted the starting material specified in the patent claim for another material. Expert evidence showed that any technician who failed to obtain a good result using the specified starting material would try the replacement material. The two materials were therefore held to be chemically equivalent, and the replacement of one with the other by the defendant did not prevent a finding and injunction against him.\n\nOn 21 March 2013, the Federal Patent Court of Switzerland adopted an approach similar to the three-prong test applied in Germany. The court based its decision on the three questions:\n\nThe court denied equivalent infringement of EP0918791B3, since paragraph 19 of EP0918791B3 explicitly teaches that toxic chromium compounds may be replaced by metallic catalysts. A person skilled in the art would not consider the organic catalyst TEMPO as a solution of equal value to the ruthenium salts specified in claim 1. The answer to the third question was negative.\n\nThe court also ruled that there was equivalent infringement of EP1149840B1, since all questions of the three-prong test were answered in the affirmative. The court set forth that the replacement of the claimed p-Toluenesulfonic acid with pyridine/water constituted basic knowledge taught during the first years of an undergraduate course in organic chemistry.\n\nIn \"Urinal valve II\", the Federal Supreme Court of Switzerland basically affirmed the three-prong test applied by the Federal Patent Court. The Supreme Court still partly reversed the Federal Patent Court’s earlier ruling on case O2014_002. The Supreme Court contended (reasons 6.4) that a second embodiment of the urinal valve fully implemented the key teachings of the asserted patent EP1579133, even though the second embodiment was not literally covered by the wording of the relevant claim. The Court went on to establish equivalent infringement.\n\nAs a signatory to the European Patent Convention (EPC), the UK is required to follow the Protocol on the Interpretation of Article 69 of the EPC, which requires member states to draw a balance between interpreting patent claims with strict literalism (with the description and drawings only helping resolve ambiguity) and regarding the claims as a mere guideline only.\n\nThe United Kingdom had historically never employed a doctrine of equivalents approach. Instead, the UKIPO employed a purposive approach to assessing the scope of the claims, which applied to both patentability and infringement. The latest UK case law on claim interpretation is found in 'Improver Corp v Remington Consumer Products Ltd' (1990) and the House of Lords decision in 'Kirin-Amgen' (2004). The so-called 'Improver' (or Protocol) questions found in the former are a widely used three-step test for deciding direct patent infringement. \n\nIn July 2017, Lord Neuberger in \"Actavis UK v Eli Lilly\" introduced a new doctrine of equivalents test. The Supreme Court set out three questions to consider when determining whether a patent infringed the claims as an equivalent:\n\n\nThe first two questions must be answered in the affirmative, and the third question in the negative to demonstrate equivalent infringement.\n\nIn the United States, the doctrine of equivalents analysis is applied to individual claim limitations, not to the invention as a whole. The legal test, articulated in \"Warner-Jenkinson Co. v. Hilton Davis Chem. Co.\" (1997), is whether the difference between the feature in the accused device and the limitation literally recited in the patent claim is \"insubstantial.\"\n\nOne way of determining whether a difference is \"insubstantial\" or not is called the \"triple identity\" test. Under the triple-identity test, the difference between the feature in the accused device and the limitation literally recited in the patent claim may be found to be \"insubstantial\" if the feature in the accused device:\nas the limitation literally recited in the patent claim. See \"Graver Tank & Manufacturing Co. v. Linde Air Products Co.\", (1950).\n\nThe Court also explained that the doctrine of equivalents applies if two elements are interchangeable and a person with ordinary skill in the art would have known that the elements were interchangeable at the time of infringement.\n\nIn the United States, the doctrine of equivalents is limited by prosecution history estoppel. Under prosecution history estoppel, if the patentee abandoned through an amendment to the patent application certain literal claim coverage (e.g., by narrowing the literal scope of the patent claim), then the patentee is estopped from later arguing that the surrendered coverage is insubstantially different from the literally claimed limitation. The proposed equivalents also cannot cover, or ensnare, the prior art.\n\nThe United States also has a statutory equivalents doctrine that is codified in 35 U.S.C. § 112 ¶ 6, which extends to structural equivalents. However, while the general doctrine of equivalents extends to technological equivalents developed after the issuance of a claim, the statutory structural equivalents in 35 U.S.C. § 112 ¶ 6 extends only to equivalents available at issuance.\n\nAttempts have been made to harmonize the doctrine of equivalents.\n\nFor instance, Article 21(2) of 1991 WIPO's \"Basic Proposal\" for a Treaty Supplementing the Paris Convention states:\n\nThe EPC 2000, which came into effect on 13 December 2007, included an amended \"Protocol on the interpretation of \" intended to bring about uniformity at a national level between contracting states to the EPC when interpreting claims. The amended text reads:\nHowever, no definition of what was meant by an \"equivalent\" was included in the Protocol and it is expected that this lack of a binding definition will do little to achieve the desired uniform interpretation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17928005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17928005", "title": "Dyadics", "text": "Dyadics\n\nIn mathematics, specifically multilinear algebra, a dyadic or dyadic tensor is a second order tensor, written in a notation that fits in with vector algebra.\n\nThere are numerous ways to multiply two Euclidean vectors. The dot product takes in two vectors and returns a scalar, while the cross product returns a pseudovector. Both of these have various significant geometric interpretations and are widely used in mathematics, physics, and engineering. The dyadic product takes in two vectors and returns a second order tensor called a \"dyadic\" in this context. A dyadic can be used to contain physical or geometric information, although in general there is no direct way of geometrically interpreting it.\n\nThe dyadic product is distributive over vector addition, and associative with scalar multiplication. Therefore, the dyadic product is linear in both of its operands. In general, two dyadics can be added to get another dyadic, and multiplied by numbers to scale the dyadic. However, the product is not commutative; changing the order of the vectors results in a different dyadic.\n\nThe formalism of dyadic algebra is an extension of vector algebra to include the dyadic product of vectors. The dyadic product is also associative with the dot and cross products with other vectors, which allows the dot, cross, and dyadic products to be combined together to obtain other scalars, vectors, or dyadics.\n\nIt also has some aspects of matrix algebra, as the numerical components of vectors can be arranged into row and column vectors, and those of second order tensors in square matrices. Also, the dot, cross, and dyadic products can all be expressed in matrix form. Dyadic expressions may closely resemble the matrix equivalents.\n\nThe dot product of a dyadic with a vector gives another vector, and taking the dot product of this result gives a scalar derived from the dyadic. The effect that a given dyadic has on other vectors can provide indirect physical or geometric interpretations.\n\nDyadic notation was first established by Josiah Willard Gibbs in 1884. The notation and terminology are relatively obsolete today. Its uses in physics include continuum mechanics and electromagnetism.\n\nIn this article, upper-case bold variables denote dyadics (including dyads) whereas lower-case bold variables denote vectors. An alternative notation uses respectively double and single over- or underbars.\n\nA \"dyad\" is a tensor of order two and rank one, and is the result of the dyadic product of two vectors (complex vectors in general), whereas a \"dyadic\" is a general tensor of order two (which may be full rank or not).\n\nThere are several equivalent terms and notations for this product:\n\nIn the dyadic context they all have the same definition and meaning, and are used synonymously, although the tensor product is an instance of the more general and abstract use of the term.\n\nDirac's bra–ket notation makes the use of dyads and dyadics intuitively clear, see Cahill (2013).\n\nTo illustrate the equivalent usage, consider three-dimensional Euclidean space, letting:\n\nbe two vectors where i, j, k (also denoted e, e, e) are the standard basis vectors in this vector space (see also Cartesian coordinates). Then the dyadic product of a and b can be represented as a sum:\n\nor by extension from row and column vectors, a 3×3 matrix (also the result of the outer product or tensor product of a and b):\n\nA \"dyad\" is a component of the dyadic (a monomial of the sum or equivalently an entry of the matrix) — the dyadic product of a pair of basis vectors scalar multiplied by a number.\n\nJust as the standard basis (and unit) vectors i, j, k, have the representations:\n\n(which can be transposed), the \"standard basis (and unit) dyads\" have the representation:\n\nFor a simple numerical example in the standard basis:\n\nIf the Euclidean space is \"N\"-dimensional, and\n\nwhere e and e are the standard basis vectors in \"N\"-dimensions (the index \"i\" on e selects a specific vector, not a component of the vector as in \"a\"), then in algebraic form their dyadic product is:\n\nThis is known as the \"nonion form\" of the dyadic. Their outer/tensor product in matrix form is:\n\nA \"dyadic polynomial\" A, otherwise known as a dyadic, is formed from multiple vectors a and b:\n\nA dyadic which cannot be reduced to a sum of less than \"N\" dyads is said to be complete. In this case, the forming vectors are non-coplanar, see Chen (1983).\n\nThe following table classifies dyadics:\n\nThe following identities are a direct consequence of the definition of the tensor product:\n\nThere are four operations defined on a vector and dyadic, constructed from the products defined on vectors.\n\nThere are five operations for a dyadic to another dyadic. Let a, b, c, d be vectors. Then:\n\nLetting\n\nbe two general dyadics, we have:\n\nThere are two ways to define the double dot product, one must be careful when deciding which convention to use. As there are no analogous matrix operations for the remaining dyadic products, no ambiguities in their definitions appear.\n\nThe double-dot product is commutative due to commutativity of the normal dot-product:\n\nThere is a special double dot product with a transpose\n\nAnother identity is:\n\nWe can see that, for any dyad formed from two vectors a and b, its double cross product is zero.\n\nHowever, by definition, a dyadic double-cross product on itself will generally be non-zero. For example, a dyadic A composed of six different vectors\n\nhas a non-zero self-double-cross product of\n\nThe \"spur\" or \"expansion factor\" arises from the formal expansion of the dyadic in a coordinate basis by replacing each dyadic product by a dot product of vectors:\n\nin index notation this is the contraction of indices on the dyadic:\n\nIn three dimensions only, the \"rotation factor\" arises by replacing every dyadic product by a cross product\n\nIn index notation this is the contraction of A with the Levi-Civita tensor\n\nThere exists a unit dyadic, denoted by I, such that, for any vector a,\n\nfor any vector a.\n\nGiven a basis of 3 vectors a, b and c, with reciprocal basis formula_38, the unit dyadic is expressed by\n\nIn the standard basis,\n\nExplicitly, the dot product to the right of the unit dyadic is\n\nand to the left\n\nThe corresponding matrix is\n\nThis can be put on more careful foundations (explaining what the logical content of \"juxtaposing notation\" could possibly mean) using the language of tensor products. If \"V\" is a finite-dimensional vector space, a dyadic tensor on \"V\" is an elementary tensor in the tensor product of \"V\" with its dual space.\n\nThe tensor product of \"V\" and its dual space is isomorphic to the space of linear maps from \"V\" to \"V\": a dyadic tensor \"vf\" is simply the linear map sending any \"w\" in \"V\" to \"f\"(\"w\")\"v\". When \"V\" is Euclidean \"n\"-space, we can use the inner product to identify the dual space with \"V\" itself, making a dyadic tensor an elementary tensor product of two vectors in Euclidean space.\n\nIn this sense, the unit dyadic ij is the function from 3-space to itself sending \"a\"i + \"a\"j + \"a\"k to \"a\"i, and jj sends this sum to \"a\"j. Now it is revealed in what (precise) sense ii + jj + kk is the identity: it sends \"a\"i + \"a\"j + \"a\"k to itself because its effect is to sum each unit vector in the standard basis scaled by the coefficient of the vector in that basis.\n\n\nwhere \"tr\" denotes the trace.\n\nA nonzero vector a can always be split two perpendicular components, one parallel (‖) to the direction of a unit vector n, and one perpendicular (⊥) to it;\n\nThe parallel component is found by vector projection, which is equivalent to the dot product of a with the dyadic nn,\n\nand the perpendicular component is found from vector rejection, which is equivalent to the dot product of a with the dyadic ,\n\nThe dyadic\n\nis a 90° anticlockwise rotation operator in 2d. It can be left-dotted with a vector r = \"xi + \"yj to produce the vector,\n\nin summary\n\nor in matrix notation\n\nFor any angle \"θ\", the 2d rotation dyadic for a rotation anti-clockwise in the plane is\n\nwhere I and J are as above, and the rotation of any 2d vector a = \"ai + \"aj is\n\nA general 3d rotation of a vector a, about an axis in the direction of a unit vector ω and anticlockwise through angle \"θ\", can be performed using Rodrigues' rotation formula in the dyadic form\n\nwhere the rotation dyadic is\n\nand the Cartesian entries of ω also form those of the dyadic\n\nThe effect of Ω on a is the cross product\n\nwhich is the dyadic form the cross product matrix with a column vector.\n\nIn special relativity, the Lorentz boost with speed \"v\" in the direction of a unit vector n can be expressed as\n\nwhere\n\nis the Lorentz factor.\n\nSome authors generalize from the term \"dyadic\" to related terms \"triadic\", \"tetradic\" and \"polyadic\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21985775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21985775", "title": "Eliminationism", "text": "Eliminationism\n\nEliminationism is the belief that one's political opponents are \"a cancer on the body politic that must be excised—either by separation from the public at large, through censorship or by outright extermination—in order to protect the purity of the nation\".\n\nThe term \"eliminationism\" was coined by American political scientist Daniel Goldhagen in his 1996 book \"Hitler's Willing Executioners\" in which he posits that ordinary Germans not only knew about, but also supported, the Holocaust because of a unique and virulent \"eliminationist antisemitism\" in the German identity, which had developed in the preceding centuries.\n\nIn his 2009 book \"Worse Than War: Genocide, Eliminationism, and the Ongoing Assault on Humanity\", Goldhagen argues that eliminationism is the root cause of every mass murder perpetrated in the 20th and 21st centuries, including:\n\n\nAmerican journalist David Neiwert argued in 2009 that eliminationist rhetoric is becoming increasingly mainstream within the American right wing, fueled in large part by the extremist discourse found on conservative blogs and talk radio, which may provoke a resurgence of lone wolf terrorism.\n\nAmerican professor of law Phyllis E. Bernard argues that interventions in Rwanda and Nigeria, which adapted American dispute prevention and resolution methods to African media and dispute resolution traditions, may provide a better fit and forum for the U.S. to address eliminationist media messages and their impact on society.\n\nTheodore N. Kaufman self-published \"Germany Must Perish!\" in the United States in 1941. In the 104-page book, Kaufman advocated genocide through forced sterilization of all Germans and the territorial disassociation of Germany. The obscure book received very little attention in the US, but was eventually cited by the Nazi regime as proof of a vast Jewish conspiracy to annihilate Germany and Germans (Kaufman was a Jew). The Nazis published quotes from the book in wartime propaganda, pretending that the book was indicative of the views of the Allied Powers, which in turn was added justification for Nazi Germany's continued persecution of the Jews as part of the Holocaust.\n\nDuring the 1991–2002 Algerian Civil War the predominant faction of the conflict's first phase was known as \"les éradicateurs\" for their ideology and for their rural and urban tactics. These hardliners were opposed in the Army and the FLN by \"les dialoguistes\".\n"}
{"id": "1908618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1908618", "title": "Endogeneity (econometrics)", "text": "Endogeneity (econometrics)\n\nIn econometrics, endogeneity broadly refers to situations in which an explanatory variable is correlated with the error term. The distinction between endogenous and exogenous variables originated in simultaneous equations models, where one separates variables whose values are determined by the model from variables which are predetermined; ignoring simultaneity in the estimation leads to biased estimates as it violates the exogeneity assumption of the Gauss–Markov theorem. The problem of endogeneity, is, unfortunately, oftentimes ignored by researchers conducting non-experimental research and doing so precludes making policy recommendations. Instrumental variable techniques are commonly used to address this problem.\n\nBesides simultaneity, correlation between explanatory variables and the error term can arise when an unobserved or omitted variable is confounding both independent and dependent variables, or when dependent variables are measured with error.\n\nIn a stochastic model, the notion of the \"usual exogeneity\", \"sequential exogeneity\", \"strong/strict exogeneity\" can be defined. Exogeneity is articulated in such a way that a variable or variables is exogenous for parameter formula_1. Even if a variable is exogenous for parameter formula_1, it might be endogenous for parameter formula_3.\n\nWhen the explanatory variables are not stochastic, then they are strong exogenous for all the parameters.\nIf the independent variable is correlated with the error term in a regression model then the estimate of the regression coefficient in an ordinary least squares (OLS) regression is biased; however if the correlation is not contemporaneous, then the coefficient estimate may still be consistent. There are many methods of correcting the bias, including instrumental variable regression and Heckman selection correction.\n\nThe following are some common sources of endogeneity.\n\nIn this case, the endogeneity comes from an uncontrolled confounding variable. A variable is correlated with both an independent variable in the model, and with the error term. (Equivalently, the omitted variable both affects the independent variable and separately affects the dependent variable.) Assume that the \"true\" model to be estimated is,\nbut we omit formula_5 (perhaps because we don't have a measure for it) when we run our regression. formula_5 will get absorbed by the error term and we will actually estimate,\n\nIf the correlation of formula_9 and formula_10 is not 0 and formula_10 separately affects formula_12 (meaning formula_13), then formula_9 is correlated with the error term formula_15.\n\nHere, \"x\" and 1 are not exogenous for \"α\" and \"β\", since, given \"x\" and 1, the distribution of \"y\" depends not only on \"α\" and \"β\", but also on \"z\" and gamma.\n\nSuppose that we do not get a perfect measure of one of our independent variables. Imagine that instead of observing formula_16 we observe formula_17 where formula_18 is the measurement \"noise\". In this case, a model given by\nis written in terms of observables and error terms as\nSince both formula_24 and formula_25 depend on formula_18, they are correlated, so the OLS estimation of formula_3 will be biased downward. Measurement error in the dependent variable, however, does not cause endogeneity (though it does increase the variance of the error term).\n\nSuppose that two variables are codetermined, with each affecting the other. Suppose that there are two \"structural\" equations,\nEstimating either equation by itself results in endogeneity. In the case of the first structural equation, formula_30. Solving for formula_5 we get (assuming that formula_32),\nAssuming that formula_24 and formula_35 are uncorrelated with formula_25, we have that,\nTherefore, attempts at estimating either structural equation will be hampered by endogeneity.\n\nThe endogeneity problem is particularly relevant in the context of time series analysis of causal processes. It is common for some factors within a causal system to be dependent for their value in period \"t\" on the values of other factors in the causal system in period \"t\" − 1. Suppose that the level of pest infestation is independent of all other factors within a given period, but is influenced by the level of rainfall and fertilizer in the preceding period. In this instance it would be correct to say that infestation is exogenous within the period, but endogenous over time.\n\nLet the model be \"y\" = \"f\"(\"x\", \"z\") + \"u\". If the variable \"x\" is sequential exogenous for parameter formula_1, and y does not cause x in Granger sense, then the variable \"x\" is strong/strict exogenous for the parameter formula_1.\n\nGenerally speaking, simultaneity occurs in the dynamic model just like in the example of static simultaneity above.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "396022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=396022", "title": "Euler equations (fluid dynamics)", "text": "Euler equations (fluid dynamics)\n\nIn fluid dynamics, the Euler equations are a set of quasilinear hyperbolic equations governing adiabatic and inviscid flow. They are named after Leonhard Euler. The equations represent Cauchy equations of conservation of mass (continuity), and balance of momentum and energy, and can be seen as particular Navier–Stokes equations with zero viscosity and zero thermal conductivity. In fact, Euler equations can be obtained by linearization of some more precise continuity equations like Navier–Stokes equations in a local equilibrium state given by a Maxwellian. The Euler equations can be applied to incompressible and to compressible flow – assuming the flow velocity is a solenoidal field, or using another appropriate energy equation respectively (the simplest form for Euler equations being the conservation of the specific entropy). Historically, only the incompressible equations have been derived by Euler. However, fluid dynamics literature often refers to the full set – including the energy equation – of the more general compressible equations together as \"the Euler equations\".\n\nFrom the mathematical point of view, Euler equations are notably hyperbolic conservation equations in the case without external field (i.e., in the limit of high Froude number). In fact, like any Cauchy equation, the Euler equations originally formulated in convective form (also called \"Lagrangian form\") can also be put in the \"conservation form\" (also called \"Eulerian form\"). The conservation form emphasizes the mathematical interpretation of the equations as conservation equations through a control volume fixed in space, and is the most important for these equations also from a numerical point of view. The convective form emphasizes changes to the state in a frame of reference moving with the fluid.\n\nThe Euler equations first appeared in published form in Euler's article \"Principes généraux du mouvement des fluides\", published in \"Mémoires de l'Académie des Sciences de Berlin\" in 1757 (in this article Euler actually published only the \"general\" form of the continuity equation and the momentum equation; the energy balance equation would be obtained a century later). They were among the first partial differential equations to be written down. At the time Euler published his work, the system of equations consisted of the momentum and continuity equations, and thus was underdetermined except in the case of an incompressible fluid. An additional equation, which was later to be called the adiabatic condition, was supplied by Pierre-Simon Laplace in 1816.\n\nDuring the second half of the 19th century, it was found that the equation related to the balance of energy must at all times be kept, while the adiabatic condition is a consequence of the fundamental laws in the case of smooth solutions. With the discovery of the special theory of relativity, the concepts of energy density, momentum density, and stress were unified into the concept of the stress–energy tensor, and energy and momentum were likewise unified into a single concept, the energy–momentum vector.\n\nIn convective form (i.e., the form with the convective operator made explicit in the momentum equation), the incompressible Euler equations in case of density constant in time and uniform in space are:\n\nwhere:\n\nThe first equation is the Euler momentum equation with uniform density (for this equation it could also not be constant in time). By expanding the material derivative, the equations become:\n\nIn fact for a flow with uniform density formula_10 the following identity holds:\n\nformula_11\n\nwhere formula_12 is the mechanic pressure. The second equation is the incompressible constraint, stating the flow velocity is a solenoidal field (the order of the equations is not casual, but underlines the fact that the incompressible constraint is not a degenerate form of the continuity equation, but rather of the energy equation, as it will become clear in the following). Notably, the continuity equation would be required also in this incompressible case as an additional third equation in case of density varying in time \"or\" varying in space. For example, with density uniform but varying in time, the continuity equation to be added to the above set would correspond to:\n\nformula_13\n\nSo the case of constant and uniform density is the only one not requiring the continuity equation as additional equation regardless of the presence or absence of the incompressible constraint. In fact, the case of incompressible Euler equations with constant and uniform density being analyzed is a toy model featuring only two simplified equations, so it is ideal for didactical purposes even if with limited physical relevancy.\n\nThe equations above thus represent respectively conservation of mass (1 scalar equation) and momentum (1 vector equation containing formula_14 scalar components, where formula_14 is the physical dimension of the space of interest). Flow velocity and pressure are the so-called \"physical variables\".\n\nIn a coordinate system given by formula_16 the velocity and external force vectors formula_1 and formula_18 have components formula_19 and formula_20, respectively. Then the equations may be expressed in subscript notation as:\n\nwhere the formula_22 and formula_23 subscripts label the \"N\"-dimensional space components, and formula_24 is the Kroenecker delta. The use of Einstein notation (where the sum is implied by repeated indices instead of sigma notation) is also frequent.\n\nAlthough Euler first presented these equations in 1755, many fundamental questions about them remain unanswered.\n\nIn three space dimensions it is not even known whether solutions of the equations are defined for all time or if they form singularities.\n\nSmooth solutions of the free (in the sense of without source term: g=0) equations satisfy the conservation of specific kinetic energy:\n\nIn the one dimensional case without the source term (both pressure gradient and external force), the momentum equation becomes the inviscid Burgers equation:\n\nThis is a model equation giving many insights on Euler equations.\n\nIn order to make the equations dimensionless, a characteristic length formula_27, and a characteristic velocity formula_28, need to be defined. These should be chosen such that the dimensionless variables are all of order one. The following dimensionless variables are thus obtained:\n\nand of the field unit vector:\n\nSubstitution of these inversed relations in Euler equations, defining the Froude number, yields (omitting the * at apix):\n\\nabla\\cdot \\mathbf u=0\n\\end{align} \\right.</math>\n\nEuler equations in the Froude limit (no external field) are named free equations and are conservative. The limit of high Froude numbers (low external field) is thus notable and can be studied with perturbation theory.\n\nThe conservation form emphasizes the mathematical properties of Euler equations, and especially the contracted form is often the most convenient one for computational fluid dynamics simulations. Computationally, there are some advantages in using the conserved variables. This gives rise to a large class of numerical methods\ncalled conservative methods.\n\nThe free Euler equations are conservative, in the sense they are equivalent to a conservation equation:\n\nor simply in Einstein notation:\n\nwhere the conservation quantity formula_33 in this case is a vector, and formula_34 is a flux matrix. This can be simply proved.\n\nAt last Euler equations can be recast into the particular equation:\n\nFor certain problems, especially when used to analyze compressible flow in a duct or in case the flow is cylindrically or spherically symmetric, the one-dimensional Euler equations are a useful first approximation. Generally, the Euler equations are solved by Riemann's method of characteristics. This involves finding curves in plane of independent variables (i.e., formula_35 and formula_36) along which partial differential equations (PDE's) degenerate into ordinary differential equations (ODE's). Numerical solutions of the Euler equations rely heavily on the method of characteristics.\n\nIn convective form the incompressible Euler equations in case of density variable in space are:\n\nwhere the additional variables are:\n\nThe first equation, which is the new one, is the incompressible continuity equation. In fact the general continuity equation would be:\n\nformula_40\n\nbut here the last term is identically zero for the incompressibility constraint.\n\nThe incompressible Euler equations in the Froude limit are equivalent to a single conservation equation with conserved quantity and associated flux respectively:\n\nHere formula_33 has length formula_43 and formula_34 has size formula_45. In general (not only in the Froude limit) Euler equations are expressible as:\n\nThe variables for the equations in conservation form are not yet optimised. In fact we could define:\n\nwhere:\n\nwhere:\n\nIn differential convective form, the compressible (and most general) Euler equations can be written shortly with the material derivative notation:\n\nwhere the additional variables here is:\n\nThe equations above thus represent conservation of mass, momentum, and energy: the energy equation expressed in the variable internal energy allows to understand the link with the incompressible case, but it is not in the simplest form.\nMass density, flow velocity and pressure are the so-called \"convective variables\" (or physical variables, or lagrangian variables), while mass density, momentum density and total energy density are the so-called \"conserved variables\" (also called eulerian, or mathematical variables).\nIf one explicitates the material derivative the equations above are:\n\nformula_51\n\nComing back to the incompressible case, it now becomes apparent that the \"incompressible constraint\" typical of the former cases actually is a particular form valid for incompressible flows of the \"energy equation\", and not of the mass equation. In particular, the incompressible constraint corresponds to the following very simple energy equation:\n\nformula_52\n\nThus for an incompressible inviscid fluid the specific internal energy is constant along the flow lines, also in a time-dependent flow. The pressure in an incompressible flow acts like a Lagrange multiplier, being the multiplier of the incompressible constraint in the energy equation, and consequently in incompressible flows it has no thermodynamic meaning. In fact, thermodynamics is typical of compressible flows and degenerates in incompressible flows.\n\nBasing on the mass conservation equation, one can put this equation in the conservation form:\n\nformula_53\n\nmeaning that for an incompressible inviscid nonconductive flow a continuity equation holds for the internal energy.\n\nSince by definition the specific enthalpy is:\n\nformula_54\n\nThe material derivative of the specific internal energy can be expressed as:\n\nformula_55\n\nThen by substituting the momentum equation in this expression, one obtains:\n\nformula_56\n\nAnd by substituting the latter in the energy equation, one obtains that the enthalpy expression for the Euler energy equation:\n\nformula_57\n\nIn a reference frame moving with an inviscid and nonconductive flow, the variation of enthalpy directly corresponds to a variation of pressure.\n\nIn thermodynamics the independent variables are the specific volume, and the specific entropy, while the specific energy is a function of state of these two variables.\n\nAnd by multiplication:\n\nformula_58\n\nNote that this equation is the only belonging to general continuum equations, so only this equation have the same form for example also in Navier-Stokes equations.\n\nOn the other hand, the pressure in thermodynamics is the opposite of the partial derivative of the specific internal energy with respect to the specific volume:\n\nformula_59\n\nsince the internal energy in thermodynamics is a function of the two variables aforementioned, the pressure gradient contained into the momentum equation should be explicited as:\n\nformula_60\n\nIt is convenient for brevity to switch the notation for the second order derivatives:\n\nformula_61\n\nFinally, the energy equation:\n\nformula_62\n\ncan be furtherly simplified in convective form by changing variable from specific energy to the specific entropy: in fact the first law of thermodynamics in local form can be written:\n\nformula_63\n\nby substituting the material derivative of the internal energy, the energy equation becomes:\n\nformula_64\n\nnow the term between parenthesis is identically zero according to the conservation of mass, then the Euler energy equation becomes simply:\n\nformula_65\n\nFor a thermodynamic fluid, the compressible Euler equations are consequently best written as:\n\n\\end{align}\\right.</math>\n\nwhere:\n\nNote that, in the general case and not only in the incompressible case, the energy equation means that for an inviscid thermodynamic fluid the specific entropy is constant along the flow lines, also in a time-dependent flow. Basing on the mass conservation equation, one can put this equation in the conservation form:\n\nformula_69\n\nmeaning that for an inviscid nonconductive flow a continuity equation holds for the entropy.\n\nOn the other hand, the two second-order partial derivatives of the specific internal energy in the momentum equation require the specification of the fundamental equation of state of the material considered, i.e. of the specific internal energy as function of the two variables specific volume and specific entropy:\n\nformula_70\n\nNote that the \"fundamental\" equation of state contains all the thermodynamic information about the system (Callen, 1985), exactly like the couple of a \"thermal\" equation of state together with a \"caloric\" equation of state.\n\nThe Euler equations in the Froude limit are equivalent to a single conservation equation with conserved quantity and associated flux respectively:\n\nwhere:\n\nHere formula_33 has length N+2 and formula_34 has size N(N+2). In general (not only in the Froude limit) Euler equations are expressible as:\n\nwhere:\n\nWe remark that also the Euler equation even when conservative (no external field, Froude limit) have no Riemann invariants in general. Some further assumptions are required\n\nHowever, we already mentioned that for a thermodynamic fluid the equation for the total energy density is equivalent to the conservation equation:\n\nformula_77\n\nThen the conservation equations in the case of a thermodynamic fluid are more simply expressed as:\n\nwhere:\n\nAnother possible form for the energy equation, being particularly useful for isobarics, is:\n\nwhere:\n\nExpanding the fluxes can be an important part of constructing numerical solvers, for example by exploiting (approximate) solutions to the Riemann problem. In regions where the state vector y varies smoothly, the equations in conservative form can be put in quasilinear form :\n\nwhere formula_82 are called the flux Jacobians defined as the matrices:\n\nObviously this Jacobian does not exist in discontinuity regions (e.g. contact discontinuities, shock waves in inviscid nonconductive flows). Note that if the flux Jacobians formula_82 are not functions of the state vector formula_33, the equations reveals \"linear\".\n\nThe compressible Euler equations can be decoupled into a set of N+2 wave equations that describes sound in Eulerian continuum if they are expressed in characteristic variables instead of conserved variables.\n\nIn fact the tensor A is always diagonalizable. If the eigenvalues (the case of Euler equations) are all real the system is defined \"hyperbolic\", and physically eigenvalues represent the speeds of propagation of information. If they are all distinguished, the system is defined \"strictly hyperbolic\" (it will be proved to be the case of one-dimensional Euler equations). Furthermore, note that diagonalisation of compressible Euler equation is easier when the energy equation is expressed in the variable entropy (i.e. with equations for thermodynamic fluids) than in other energy variables. This will become clear by considering the 1D case.\n\nIf formula_86 is the right eigenvector of the matrix formula_87 corresponding to the eigenvalue formula_88, by building the projection matrix:\n\nformula_89\n\nOne can finally find the \"characteristic variables\" as:\n\nSince A is constant, multiplying the original 1-D equation in flux-Jacobian form with P yields the characteristic equations:\n\nThe original equations have been decoupled into N+2 characteristic equations each describing a simple wave, with the eigenvalues being the wave speeds. The variables \"w\" are called the \"characteristic variables\" and are a subset of the conservative variables. The solution of the initial value problem in terms of characteristic variables is finally very simple. In one spatial dimension it is:\n\nThen the solution in terms of the original conservative variables is obtained by transforming back:\n\nthis computation can be explicited as the linear combination of the eigenvectors:\n\nNow it becomes apparent that the characteristic variables act as weights in the linear combination of the jacobian eigenvectors. The solution can be seen as superposition of waves, each of which is advected independently without change in shape. Each \"i\"-th wave has shape \"w\"\"p\" and speed of propagation \"λ\". In the following we show a very simple example of this solution procedure.\n\nIf one considers Euler equations for a thermodynamic fluid with the two further assumptions of one spatial dimension and free (no external field: \"g\" = 0) :\n\nIf one defines the vector of variables:\n\nrecalling that formula_66 is the specific volume, formula_98 the flow speed, formula_68 the specific entropy, the corresponding jacobian matrix is:\n\nAt first one must find the eigenvalues of this matrix by solving the characteristic equation:\n\nformula_101\n\nthat is explicitly:\n\nThis determinant is very simple: the fastest computation starts on the last row, since it has the highest number of zero elements.\n\nNow by computing the determinant 2x2:\n\nby defining the parameter:\n\nor equivalently in mechanical variables, as:\n\nThis parameter is always real according to the second law of thermodynamics. In fact the second law of thermodynamics can be expressed by several postulates. The most elementary of them in mathematical terms is the statement of convexity of the fundamental equation of state, i.e. the hessian matrix of the specific energy expressed as function of specific volume and specific entropy:\n\nis defined positive. This statement corresponds to the two conditions:\n\nThe first condition is the one ensuring the parameter \"a\" is defined real.\n\nThe characteristic equation finally results:\n\nThat has three real solutions:\n\nThen the matrix has three real eigenvalues all distinguished: the 1D Euler equations are a strictly hyperbolic system.\n\nAt this point one should determine the three eigenvectors: each one is obtained by substituting one eigenvalue in the eigenvalue equation and then solving it. By substituting the first eigenvalue λ one obtains:\n\nBasing on the third equation that simply has solution s=0, the system reduces to:\n\nThe two equations are redundant as usual, then the eigenvector is defined with a multiplying constant. We choose as right eigenvector:\n\nThe other two eigenvectors can be found with analogous procedure as:\n\nThen the projection matrix can be built:\n\nFinally it becomes apparent that the real parameter \"a\" previously defined is the speed of propagation of the information characteristic of the hyperbolic system made of Euler equations, i.e. it is the \"wave speed\". It remains to be shown that the sound speed corresponds to the particular case of an isoentropic transformation:\n\nSound speed is defined as the wavespeed of an isentropic transformation:\n\nby the definition of the isoentropic compressibility:\n\nthe soundspeed results always the square root of ratio between the isoentropic compressibility and the density:\n\nThe sound speed in an ideal gas depends only on its temperature:\n\nSince the specific enthalpy in an ideal gas is proportional to its temperature:\n\nthe sound speed in an ideal gas can also be made dependent only on its specific enthalpy:\n\n Bernoulli's theorem is a direct consequence of the Euler equations.\n\nThe vector calculus identity of the cross product of a curl holds:\n\nwhere the Feynman subscript notation formula_124 is used, which means the subscripted gradient operates only on the factor formula_34.\n\nLamb in his famous classical book Hydrodynamics (1895), still in print, used this identity to change the convective term of the flow velocity in rotational form:\n\nthe Euler momentum equation in Lamb's form becomes:\n\nNow, basing on the other identity:\n\nthe Euler momentum equation assumes a form that is optimal to demonstrate Bernoulli's theorem for steady flows:\n\nIn fact, in case of an external conservative field, by defining its potential φ:\n\nIn case of a steady flow the time derivative of the flow velocity disappears, so the momentum equation becomes:\n\nAnd by projecting the momentum equation on the flow direction, i.e. along a \"streamline\", the cross product disappears because its result is always perpendicular to the velocity:\n\nIn the steady incompressible case the mass equation is simply:\n\n, that is the mass conservation for a steady incompressible flow states that the density along a streamline is constant. Then the Euler momentum equation in the steady incompressible case becomes:\n\nThe convenience of defining the total head for an inviscid liquid flow is now apparent:\n\nwhich may be simply written as:\n\nThat is, the momentum balance for a steady inviscid and incompressible flow in an external conservative field states that the total head along a streamline is constant.\n\nIn the most general steady (compressibile) case the mass equation in conservation form is:\n\nTherefore, the previous expression is rather\n\nThe right-hand side appears on the energy equation in convective form, which on the steady state reads:\n\nThe energy equation therefore becomes:\n\nformula_140\n\nso that the internal specific energy now features in the head.\n\nSince the external field potential is usually small compared to the other terms, it is convenient to group the latter ones in the total enthalpy:\n\nand the Bernoulli invariant for an inviscid gas flow is:\n\nwhich can be written as:\n\nThat is, the energy balance for a steady inviscid flow in an external conservative field states that the sum of the total enthalpy and the external potential is constant along a streamline.\n\nIn the usual case of small potential field, simply:\n\nBy substituting the pressure gradient with the entropy and enthalpy gradient, according to the first law of thermodynamics in the enthalpy form:\n\nin the convective form of Euler momentum equation, one arrives to:\n\nFriedmann deduced this equation for the particular case of a perfect gas and published it in 1922. However, this equation is general for an inviscid nonconductive fluid and no equation of state is implicit in it.\n\nOn the other hand, by substituting the enthalpy form of the first law of thermodynamics in the rotational form of Euler momentum equation, one obtains:\n\nand by defining the specific total enthalpy:\n\none arrives to the Crocco–Vazsonyi form (Crocco, 1937) of the Euler momentum equation:\n\nIn the steady case the two variables entropy and total enthalpy are particularly useful since Euler equations can be recast into the Crocco's form:\n\nFinally if the flow is also isothermal:\n\nformula_151\n\nby defining the specific total Gibbs free energy:\n\nformula_152\n\nthe Crocco's form can be reduced to:\n\nFrom these relationships one deduces that the specific total free energy is uniform in a steady, irrotational, isothermal, isoentropic, inviscid flow.\n\nThe Euler equations are quasilinear hyperbolic equations and their general solutions are waves. Under certain assumptions they can be simplified leading to Burgers equation. Much like the familiar oceanic waves, waves described by the Euler Equations 'break' and so-called shock waves are formed; this is a nonlinear effect and represents the solution becoming multi-valued. Physically this represents a breakdown of the assumptions that led to the formulation of the differential equations, and to extract further information from the equations we must go back to the more fundamental integral form. Then, weak solutions are formulated by working in 'jumps' (discontinuities) into the flow quantities – density, velocity, pressure, entropy – using the Rankine–Hugoniot equations. Physical quantities are rarely discontinuous; in real flows, these discontinuities are smoothed out by viscosity and by heat transfer. (See Navier–Stokes equations)\n\nShock propagation is studied – among many other fields – in aerodynamics and rocket propulsion, where sufficiently fast flows occur.\n\nTo properly compute the continuum quantities in discontinuous zones (for example shock waves or boundary layers) from the \"local\" forms (all the above forms are local forms, since the variables being described are typical of one point in the space caonsidered, i.e. they are \"local variables\") of Euler equations through finite difference methods generally too many space points and time steps would be necessary for the memory of computers now and in the near future. In these cases it is mandatory to avoid the local forms of the conservation equations, passing some weak forms, like the finite volume one.\n\nStarting from the simplest case, one consider a steady free conservation equation in conservation form in the space domain:\n\nwhere in general F is the flux matrix. By integrating this local equation over a fixed volume V, it becomes:\n\nThen, basing on the divergence theorem, we can transform this integral in a boundary integral of the flux:\n\nThis \"global form\" simply states that there is no net flux of a conserved quantity passing through a region in the case steady and without source. In 1D the volume reduces to an interval, its boundary being its extrema, then the divergence theorem reduces to the fundamental theorem of calculus:\n\nthat is the simple finite difference equation, known as the \"jump relation\":\n\nThat can be made explicit as:\n\nwhere the notation employed is:\n\nOr, if one performs an indefinite integral:\n\nOn the other hand, a transient conservation equation:\n\nbrings to a jump relation:\n\nFor one-dimensional Euler equations the conservation variables and the flux are the vectors:\n\nwhere:\n\nIn the one dimensional case the correspondent jump relations, called the Rankine–Hugoniot equations, are:\n\nIn the steady one dimensional case the become simply:\n\nThanks to the mass difference equation, the energy difference equation can be simplified without any restriction:\n\nwhere formula_171 is the specific total enthalpy.\n\nThese are the usually expressed in the convective variables:\n\nformula_172\n\nwhere:\n\nNote that the energy equation is an integral form of the Bernoulli equation in the compressible case. \nThe former mass and momentum equations by substitution lead to the Rayleigh equation:\n\nSince the second member is a constant, the Rayleigh equation always describes a simple line in the pressure volume plane not depending of any equation of state, i.e. the Rayleigh line.\nBy substituition in the Rankine–Hugoniot equations, that can be also made explicit as:\n\nOne can also obtain the kinetic equation and to the Hugoniot equation. The analytical passages are not shown here for brevity.\n\nThese are respectively:\n\nThe Hugoniot equation, coupled with the fundamental equation of state of the material:\n\nformula_178\n\ndescribes in general in the pressure volume plane a curve passing by the conditions (v,p), i.e. the Hugoniot curve, whose shape strongly depends on the type of material considered.\n\nIt is also customary to define a \"Hugoniot function\":\n\nallowing to quantify deviations from the Hugoniot equation, similarly to the previous definition of the \"hydraulic head\", useful for the deviations from the Bernoulli equation.\n\nOn the other hand, by integrating a generic conservation equation:\n\non a fixed volume V, and then basing on the divergence theorem, it becomes:\n\nBy integrating this equation also over a time interval:\n\nNow by defining the node conserved quantity:\n\nwe deduce the finite volume form:\n\nIn particular, for Euler equations, once the conserved quantities have been determined, the convective variables are deduced by back substitution:\n\nThen the explicit finite volume expressions of the original convective variables are:\n\n\\mathbf u_{m,n+1}=\\mathbf u_{m,n} - \\frac 1 {\\rho_{m,n} V_m} \\int_{t_n}^{t_{n+1}} \\oint_{\\partial V_m} (\\rho \\mathbf u \\otimes \\mathbf u - p \\mathbf I) \\cdot \\hat n \\, ds \\, dt \\\\[1.2ex]\n\\mathbf e_{m,n+1}=\\mathbf e_{m,n} - \\frac 1 2 (u^2_{m,n+1} - u^2_{m,n}) - \\frac 1 {\\rho_{m,n} V_m} \\int_{t_n}^{t_{n+1}} \\oint_{\\partial V_m} (\\rho e + \\frac 1 2 \\rho u^2 + p) \\mathbf u \\cdot \\hat n \\, ds \\, dt \\\\[1.2ex]\n\\end{align}\\right. .</math>\n\nIt has been shown that Euler equations are not a complete set of equations, but they require some additional constraints to admit a unique solution: these are the equation of state of the material considered. To be consistent with thermodynamics these equations of state should satisfy the two laws of thermodynamics. On the other hand, by definition non-equilibrium system are described by laws lying outside these laws. In the following we list some very simple equations of state and the corresponding influence on Euler equations.\n\nFor an ideal polytropic gas the fundamental equation of state is:\n\nwhere formula_50 is the specific energy, formula_66 is the specific volume, formula_68 is the specific entropy, formula_190 is the molecular mass, formula_191 here is considered a constant (polytropic process), and can be shown to correspond to the heat capacity ratio. This equation can be shown to be consistent with the usual equations of state employed by thermodynamics.\n\nFrom this equation one can derive the equation for pressure by its thermodynamic definition:\n\nBy inverting it one arrives to the mechanical equation of state:\n\nThen for an ideal gas the compressible Euler equations can be simply expressed in the \"mechanical\" or \"primitive variables\" specific volume, flow velocity and pressure, by taking the set of the equations for a thermodynamic system and modifying the energy equation into a pressure equation through this mechanical equation of state. At last, in convective form they result:\n\n\\end{align}\\right.</math>\n\nand in one-dimensional quasilinear form they results:\n\nwhere the conservative vector variable is:\n\nand the corresponding jacobian matrix is:\n\nIn the case of steady flow, it is convenient to choose the Frenet–Serret frame along a streamline as the coordinate system for describing the steady momentum Euler equation:\nwhere formula_1, formula_12 and formula_37 denote the flow velocity, the pressure and the density, respectively.\n\nLet formula_201 be a Frenet–Serret orthonormal basis which consists of a tangential unit vector, a normal unit vector, and a binormal unit vector to the streamline, respectively.\nSince a streamline is a curve that is tangent to the velocity vector of the flow, the left-handed side of the above equation, the convective derivative of velocity, can be described as follows:\nwhere formula_203 is the radius of curvature of the streamline.\n\nTherefore, the momentum part of the Euler equations for a steady flow is found to have a simple form:\n\nFor barotropic flow formula_205, Bernoulli's equation is derived from the first equation:\nThe second equation expresses that, in the case the streamline is curved, there should exist a pressure gradient normal to the streamline because the centripetal acceleration of the fluid parcel is only generated by the normal pressure gradient.\n\nThe third equation expresses that pressure is constant along the binormal axis.\n\nLet formula_207 be the distance from the center of curvature of the streamline, \nthen the second equation is written as follows:\nwhere formula_209\n\nThis equation states: \n\"In a steady flow of an inviscid fluid without external forces, the center of curvature of the streamline lies in the direction of decreasing radial pressure.\" \n\nAlthough this relationship between the pressure field and flow curvature is very useful, it doesn't have a name in the English-language scientific literature.\nJapanese fluid-dynamicists call the relationship the \"Streamline curvature theorem\".\nThis \"theorem\" explains clearly why there are such low pressures in the centre of vortices, which consist of concentric circles of streamlines.\nThis also is a way to intuitively explain why airfoils generate lift forces.\n\nAll potential flow solutions are also solutions of the Euler equations, and in particular the incompressible Euler equations when the potential is harmonic.\nSolutions to the Euler equations with vorticity are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38520847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38520847", "title": "Finitely generated object", "text": "Finitely generated object\n\nIn category theory, a finitely generated object is the quotient of a free object over a finite set, in the sense that it is the target of a regular epimorphism from a free object that is free on a finite set.\n\nFor instance, one way of defining a finitely generated group is that it is the image of a group homomorphism from a finitely generated free group.\n\n"}
{"id": "406902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=406902", "title": "Geometrized unit system", "text": "Geometrized unit system\n\nA geometrized unit system or geometric unit system is a system of natural units in which the base physical units are chosen so that the speed of light in vacuum, \"c\", and the gravitational constant, \"G\", are set equal to unity.\n\nThe geometrized unit system is not a completely defined or unique system: latitude is left to also set other constants to unity. We may, for example, also set vacuum permittivity, ε, and the electric charge, formula_3, to unity.\n\nThe reduced Planck constant, \"ħ\", is not equal to 1 in this system (Stoney units), in contrast to Planck units.\n\nThis system is useful in physics, especially in the special and general theories of relativity. All physical quantities are identified with geometric quantities such as areas, lengths, dimensionless numbers, path curvatures, or sectional curvatures.\n\nMany equations in relativistic physics appear far simpler when expressed in geometric units, because all appearances of \"G\" or \"c\" drop out. For example, the Schwarzschild radius of a nonrotating uncharged black hole with mass \"m\" becomes simply . Therefore, many books and papers on relativistic physics use geometric units exclusively. An alternative system of geometrized units is often used in particle physics and cosmology, in which instead. This introduces an additional factor of 8π into Newton's law of universal gravitation but simplifies Einstein's equations, the Einstein–Hilbert action, the Friedmann equations and the Newtonian Poisson equation by removing the corresponding factor.\n\nPractical measurements and computations are usually done in SI units, but conversions are generally quite straightforward.\n\nIn geometric units, every time interval is interpreted as the distance travelled by light during that given time interval. That is, one second is interpreted as one light-second, so time has the geometric units of length. This is dimensionally consistent with the notion that, according to the kinematical laws of special relativity, time and distance are on an equal footing.\n\nEnergy and momentum are interpreted as components of the four-momentum vector, and mass is the magnitude of this vector, so in geometric units these must all have the dimension of length. We can convert a mass expressed in kilograms to the equivalent mass expressed in metres by multiplying by the conversion factor \"G\"/\"c\". For example, the Sun's mass of in SI units is equivalent to . This is half the Schwarzschild radius of a one solar mass black hole. All other conversion factors can be worked out by combining these two.\n\nThe small numerical size of the few conversion factors reflects the fact that relativistic effects are only noticeable when large masses or high speeds are considered.\n\nListed below are all conversion factors that are useful to convert between all combinations of the SI base units, and if not possible, between them and their unique elements, because ampere is a dimensionless ratio of two lengths such as [C/s], and candela (1/683 [W/sr]) is a dimensionless ratio of two dimensionless ratios such as ratio of two volumes [kg⋅m/s] = [W] and ratio of two areas [m/m] = [sr], while mole is only a dimensionless Avogadro number of entities such as atoms or particles:\n\nThe components of \"curvature tensors\" such as the Einstein tensor have, in geometric units, the dimensions of sectional curvature. So do the components of the stress–energy tensor. Therefore the Einstein field equation is dimensionally consistent in these units.\n\n\"Path curvature\" is the reciprocal of the magnitude of the curvature vector of a curve, so in geometric units it has the dimension of inverse length. Path curvature measures the rate at which a nongeodesic curve bends in spacetime, and if we interpret a timelike curve as the world line of some observer, then its path curvature can be interpreted as the magnitude of the acceleration experienced by that observer. Physical quantities which can be identified with path curvature include the components of the electromagnetic field tensor.\n\nAny velocity can be interpreted as the slope of a curve; in geometric units, slopes are evidently dimensionless ratios. Physical quantities which can be identified with dimensionless ratios include the components of the electromagnetic potential four-vector and the electromagnetic current four-vector.\n\nPhysical quantities such as mass and electric charge which can be identified with the magnitude of a timelike vector have the geometric dimension of \"length\". Physical quantities such as angular momentum which can be identified with the magnitude of a bivector have the geometric dimension of \"area\".\n\nHere is a table collecting some important physical quantities according to their dimensions in geometrized units. They are listed together with the appropriate conversion factor for SI units.\n\nThis table can be augmented to include temperature, as indicated above, as well as further derived physical quantities such as various moments.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1462204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1462204", "title": "Interpretivism (legal)", "text": "Interpretivism (legal)\n\nInterpretivism is a school of thought in contemporary jurisprudence and the philosophy of law. \n\nThe main claims of interpretivism are that \n\nIn the English speaking world, interpretivism is usually identified with Ronald Dworkin's thesis on the nature of law as discussed in his text titled \"Law's Empire\", which is sometimes seen as a third way between natural law and legal positivism. \n\nThe concept also includes continental legal hermeneutics and authors such as Helmut Coing and Emilio Betti. Legal hermeneutics can be seen as a branch of philosophical hermeneutics, whose main authors in the 20th century are Heidegger and Gadamer, both drawing on Husserl's phenomenology. Hermeneutics has now expanded to many varied areas of research in the social sciences as an alternative to a conventionalist approach.\n\nIn a wider sense, interpretivism includes even the theses of, in chronological order, Josef Esser, Theodor Viehweg, Chaim Perelman, Wolfgang Fikentscher, Castanheira Neves, Friedrich Müller, Aulis Aarnio and Robert Alexy.\n\n"}
{"id": "36888765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36888765", "title": "Karl Wiesenburg", "text": "Karl Wiesenburg\n\nOtto Karl Wiesenburg was a Mississippi statesmen, lawyer, public servant, and resident of Pascagoula, Mississippi. He served in the U.S. Army during World War II and returned home to help develop Jackson County, Mississippi, into a thriving industrial complex. Wiesenburg is best known for his opposition to Governor Ross Barnett's attempt to deny the enrollment of James Meredith into the University of Mississippi.\n\nOtto Karl Wiesenburg was born in Rosedale, Long Island, New York on August 1, 1911 and attended public high school in New York City. He arrived in Pascagoula, Mississippi in 1931 as a radio operator on a U.S. Coast Guard vessel and spent his life there working to improve the city, Jackson County, and the State of Mississippi. He served in the Coast Guard from December 3, 1929 to December 2, 1934 advancing from apprentice seaman to Radioman 2nd Class. While he did not complete high school before leaving New York to join the Coast Guard, he was a self-educated man who studied law by reading law books during his days at sea in the Coast Guard. In 1933, he passed the Mississippi bar examination, was admitted to the Mississippi Bar on March 27, 1933 and practiced law in Pascagoula until the day of his death on June 18, 1990. His law practice was one of the most respected in the state and he was described as a man of integrity by the \"Mississippi Press\" newspaper.\n\nAlthough he had met his military obligation with five year's service in the Coast Guard, he joined the U.S. Army after Pearl Harbor on May 2, 1942 and served overseas for 42 months in World War II as a radio operator in India, Burma, and China rising to the rank of Captain. He was awarded the Bronze Star Medal and The Asiatic/Pacific Medal with two combat stars. After the war, he continued his military service in the U. S. Army Reserve serving as commanding officer of the 845th Signal Service Battalion before retiring as a Lt. Colonel in 1964.\n\nDevoted to public service, Wiesenburg was appointed to the Pascagoula Port Commission in 1941 and served as its president. He served as city attorney to both Pascagoula and Ocean Springs and as attorney for the Pascagoula Port Authority and attorney for the Jackson County Board of Supervisors. He also served for one term on the Pascagoula City Council. In 1956, he was elected to the Mississippi Legislature where served until 1964. He was voted the Outstanding Freshman Legislator in 1956. During his eight years, he authored significant legislation for south Mississippi including the County Zoning Act, State Ports Act, Water Safety and Boating Act, Pat Harrison Waterway Commission Act, and the Jackson County Campus - Mississippi Gulf Coast Jr. College Act. He also authored the landmark Jackson County Port Authority Act that created the port of Pascagoula, including the industrial area of Bayou Casotte. The Jackson County Port Authority considers him the father of the Port of Pascagoula.\n\nDuring the period when James Meredith entered the University of Mississippi as its first black student, over the opposition of Governor Ross Barnett and the Mississippi Legislature, Wiesenburg was one of two legislators, the other being Joe Wroten of Greenville, who took a strong stand for civil rights and observance of the law. Wiesenburg stated of the Barnett administration that, \"His administration will go down as the worst since Reconstruction days.\" He wrote a five-part series of articles titled \"The Oxford Disaster...Price of Defiance\" that was published in the Pascagoula newspaper \"The Chronicle\" between December 17–21, 1962. The articles detailed the applicable federal and state laws that had been violated and stated that the Governor's action had followed \"the road to riot\" and that the resulting bloodshed in Oxford was the \"price of defiance.\" Ira B. Harkey Jr. editor of \"The Chronicle\" won the Pulitzer Prize for Editorial Writing in 1963 for his anti-segregationist editorials and reporting of the James Meredith incident. Others also took notice of Wiesenburg's strong stand for the rule of law. Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy wrote of Wiesenburg in a letter to the federal attorney in Oxford, \"Tell [Wiesenburg] for me that he is the one who deserves a Pulitzer Prize or more. It is all well for we in the North to talk about these matters. That takes no courage at all. But people such as you and Mr. Wiesenburg are the ones who really carry the banner.\" Former Mississippi Governor William Winter described Wiesenburg as \"one of the most courageous men he ever knew.\"\n\nWhile he did not attend college, unknown to his family until after his death, he paid for many students to attend colleges throughout the state. His family has established the Karl Wiesenburg Scholarship at the University of Southern Mississippi to honor his commitment to education and public service. The scholarship is available to University of Southern Mississippi students majoring in political science with preference for a student from Jackson County.\n\n"}
{"id": "1628055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1628055", "title": "Know thyself", "text": "Know thyself\n\nThe Ancient Greek aphorism \"know thyself\" (Greek: , transliterated: '; also ' with the ε contracted), is one of the Delphic maxims and was inscribed in the pronaos (forecourt) of the Temple of Apollo at Delphi according to the Greek writer Pausanias (10.24.1). The phrase was later expounded upon by the philosopher Socrates who taught that: \n\nIn Latin the phrase, \"know thyself,\" is given as \"nosce te ipsum\" or \"temet nosce\".\n\nThe maxim, or aphorism, \"know thyself\" has had a variety of meanings attributed to it in literature.\n\nAccording to a proposal by De Lubicz and Lamy (1956), the Greek aphorism may have been adopted from Ancient Egypt: there are two parts of the ancient Luxor Temple, the External Temple, where the beginners were allowed to enter and the Internal Temple where a person was only allowed to enter after proven worthy and ready to acquire more knowledge and insights. One of the proverbs of the External Temple is \"The body is the house of God.\" \nIn the Internal Temple, one of the many proverbs is \"Man, know thyself, and you are going to know the gods\". \n\nThe Greek aphorism has been attributed to at least the following ancient Greek sages:\n\nDiogenes Laërtius attributes it to Thales (\"Lives\" I.40), but also notes that Antisthenes in his \"Successions of Philosophers\" attributes it to Phemonoe, a mythical Greek poet, though admitting that it was appropriated by Chilon. In a discussion of moderation and self-awareness, the Roman poet Juvenal quotes the phrase in Greek and states that the precept descended \"e caelo\" (from heaven) (\"\" 11.27). The 10th-century Byzantine encyclopedia the \"Suda\" recognized Chilon and Thales as the sources of the maxim \"Know Thyself.\"\n\nThe authenticity of all such attributions is doubtful; according to Parke and Wormell (1956), \"The actual authorship of the three maxims set up on the Delphian temple may be left uncertain. Most likely they were popular proverbs, which tended later to be attributed to particular sages.\"\n\nListed chronologically:\nThe ancient Greek playwright Aeschylus uses the maxim \"know thyself\" in his play \"Prometheus Bound.\" The play about a mythological sequence, thereby places the maxim within the context of Greek mythology. In this play, the demi-god Prometheus first rails at the Olympian gods, and against what he believes to be the injustice of his having been bound to a cliffside by Zeus, king of the Olympian gods. The demi-god Oceanus comes to Prometheus to reason with him, and cautions him that he should \"know thyself\". In this context, Oceanus is telling Prometheus that he should know better than to speak ill of the one who decides his fate and accordingly, perhaps he should better know his place in the \"great order of things.\"\n\nOne of Socrates's students, the historian Xenophon, described some of the instances of Socrates's use of the Delphic maxim 'Know Thyself' in his history titled: \"Memorabilia.\" In this writing, Xenophon portrayed his teacher's use of the maxim as an organizing theme for Socrates's lengthy dialogue with Euthydemus.\n\nPlato, another student of Socrates, employs the maxim 'Know Thyself' extensively by having the character of Socrates use it to motivate his dialogues. Benjamin Jowett's index to his translation of the \"Dialogues of Plato\" lists six dialogues which discuss or explore the Delphic maxim: 'know thyself.' These dialogues (and the Stephanus numbers indexing the pages where these discussions begin) are \"Charmides\" (164D), \"Protagoras\" (343B), \"Phaedrus\" (229E), \"Philebus\" (48C), \"Laws\" (II.923A), \"Alcibiades I\" (124A, 129A, 132C).\n\nIn Plato's \"Charmides\", Critias refers to the maxim consistently with the view expressed in the \"Suda\", with Critias saying, \"for they imagined that 'Know Thyself!' was a piece of advice which the god gave and not his salutation of the worshippers at their first coming in.\" In modern words Critias gives his opinion that 'Know Thyself!' was an admonition to those entering the sacred temple to remember or know their place and Critias says, \" 'know thyself!' and 'be temperate!' are the same. Notice that when the words of Critias are written, 'thyself' and 'temperate' are punctuated with exclamation marks in the English translations, as if they were commands. In the balance of the \"Charmides\", Plato has Socrates lead a longer inquiry as to how we may gain knowledge of ourselves.\n\nIn Plato's \"Phaedrus\", Socrates uses the maxim 'know thyself' as his explanation to Phaedrus to explain why he has no time for the attempts to rationally explain mythology or other far flung topics. Socrates says, \"But I have no leisure for them at all; and the reason, my friend, is this: I am not yet able, as the Delphic inscription has it, to know myself; so it seems to me ridiculous, when I do not yet know that, to investigate irrelevant things.\"\n\nIn Plato's \"Protagoras\", Socrates lauds the authors of pithy and concise sayings delivered precisely at the right moment and says that Lacedaemon, or Sparta, educates its people to that end. Socrates lists the Seven Sages as Thales, Pittacus, Bias, Solon, Cleobulus, Myson, and Chilon, who he says are gifted in that Lacedaemonian art of concise words \"twisted together, like a bowstring, where a slight effort gives great force.\" Socrates says examples of them are, \"the far-famed inscriptions, which are in all men's mouths,--'Know thyself,' and 'Nothing too much'.\". Having lauded the maxims, Socrates then spends a great deal of time getting to the bottom of what one of them means, the saying of Pittacus, 'Hard is it to be good.' The irony here is that although the sayings of Delphi bear 'great force,' it is not clear how to live life in accordance with their meanings. Although, the concise and broad nature of the sayings suggests the active partaking in the usage and personal discovery of each maxim; as if the intended nature of the saying lay not in the words but the self-reflection and self-referencing of the person thereof.\nIn Plato's \"Philebus\" dialogue, Socrates refers back to the same usage of 'know thyself' from \"Phaedrus\" to build an example of the ridiculous for Protarchus. Socrates says, as he did in Phaedrus, that people make themselves appear ridiculous when they are trying to know obscure things before they know themselves. Plato also alluded to the fact that understanding 'thyself,' would have a greater yielded factor of understanding the nature of a human being. Syllogistically, understanding oneself would enable thyself to have an understanding of others as a result.\n\nThe \"Suda\", a 10th-century encyclopedia of Greek knowledge, says: \"the proverb is applied to those whose boasts exceed what they are\", and that \"know thyself\" is a warning to pay no attention to the opinion of the multitude.\n\nOne work by the Medieval philosopher Peter Abelard is entitled \"Scito te ipsum\" (“know yourself”) or \"Ethica\".\n\nFrom 1539 onwards the phrase \"nosce te ipsum\" and its Latin variants were often used in the anonymous texts written for anatomical fugitive sheets printed in Venice as well as for later anatomical atlases printed throughout Europe. The 1530s fugitive sheets are the first instances in which the phrase was applied to knowledge of the human body attained through dissection.\n\nIn 1651 Thomas Hobbes used the term \"nosce teipsum\" which he translated as 'read thyself' in his famous work, \"The Leviathan\". He was responding to a popular philosophy at the time that you can learn more by studying others than you can from reading books. He asserts that one learns more by studying oneself: particularly the feelings that influence our thoughts and motivate our actions. As Hobbes states, \"but to teach us that for the similitude of the thoughts and passions of one man, to the thoughts and passions of another, whosoever looketh into himself and considereth what he doth when he does think, opine, reason, hope, fear, etc., and upon what grounds; he shall thereby read and know what are the thoughts and passions of all other men upon the like occasions.\"\n\nIn 1734 Alexander Pope wrote a poem entitled \"An Essay on Man, Epistle II\", which begins \"Know then thyself, presume not God to scan, The proper study of mankind is Man.\"\n\nIn 1735 Carl Linnaeus published the first edition of \"Systema Naturae\" in which he described humans (\"Homo\") with the simple phrase \"Nosce te ipsum\".\n\nIn 1750 Benjamin Franklin, in his \"Poor Richard's Almanack\", observed the great difficulty of knowing one's self, with: \"There are three Things extremely hard, Steel, a Diamond, and to know one's self.\" \n\nIn 1754 Jean-Jacques Rousseau lauded the \"inscription of the Temple at Delphi\" in his \"Discourse on the Origin of Inequality\".\n\nIn 1831, Ralph Waldo Emerson wrote a poem entitled \"Γνώθι Σεαυτόν\", or Gnothi Seauton ('Know Thyself'), on the theme of 'God in thee.' The poem was an anthem to Emerson's belief that to 'know thyself' meant knowing the God which Emerson felt existed within each person.\n\nIn 1832 Samuel T. Coleridge wrote a poem entitled \"Self Knowledge\" in which the text centers on the Delphic maxim 'Know Thyself' beginning, 'Gnôthi seauton!--and is this the prime And heaven-sprung adage of the olden time!--' and ending with 'Ignore thyself, and strive to know thy God!' Coleridge's text references JUVENAL, xi. 27.\n\nIn 1902 Hugo von Hofmannsthal has his 16th-century alter ego in his letter to Francis Bacon mention a book he intended to call \"Nosce te ipsum\".\n\nIn 1904 Sarah Ida Shaw and Elanor Dorcas Pond founded the Delta Delta Delta fraternity. Part of their motto is Self-Knowledge, Self-Reverence, and Self-Discipline.\n\nThe Wachowskis used one of the Latin versions (\"temet nosce\") of this aphorism as inscription over the Oracle's door in their movies \"The Matrix\" (1999) and \"The Matrix Revolutions\" (2003). The transgender character Nomi in the Netflix show Sense8, again directed by The Wachowskis, has a tattoo on her arm with the Greek version of this phrase.\n\n\"Know Thyself\" is the motto of Hamilton College, of Lyceum International School (Nugegoda, Sri Lanka) and of İpek University (Ankara, Turkey).\n\n\"Nosce te ipsum\" is also the motto for the Scottish clan Thompson. It is featured on the family crest or coat of arms.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "247989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=247989", "title": "Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp. bulgaricus", "text": "Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp. bulgaricus\n\nLactobacillus delbrueckii\" subsp. \"bulgaricus (until 2014 known as Lactobacillus bulgaricus) is the main bacteria used for the production of yogurt. It is also found in other naturally fermented products. First identified in 1905 by the Bulgarian doctor Stamen Grigorov, the bacterium feeds on lactose to produce lactic acid, which is used to preserve milk.\n\n\"Lactobacillus delbrueckii\" subsp. \"bulgaricus\" can be found naturally in the gastrointestinal tract of mammals living in Bulgaria, but one specific strain, \"Lactobacillus bulgaricus\" GLB44, is extracted from the leaves of the \"Galanthus nivalis\" (snowdrop flower) in Bulgaria as well. The bacterium is also grown artificially in many other countries.\n\nIt is a gram-positive rod that may appear long and filamentous. It is non-motile and does not form spores. It is regarded as aciduric or acidophilic, since it requires a low pH (around 5.4–4.6) to grow effectively. The bacterium has complex nutritional requirements.\n\nOn October 18, 2012, during the International Conference on \"Biodiversity Conservation and Education for Sustainable Development - Learning to Conserve Biodiversity in a Rapidly Changing World\" held at Hyderabad during CoP-11, Jayanthi Natarajan, India's Minister of State for Environment and Forests, announced it as the National Microbe for India. The microbe was selected by children who had visited the Science Express Biodiversity Special, a train which has been visiting various stations across the country.\n\n\"Lactobacillus delbrueckii \"subsp.\" bulgaricus\" is commonly used alongside \"Streptococcus thermophilus\" as a starter for making yogurt. The two species work in synergy, with \"L. d. bulgaricus\" producing amino acids from milk proteins, which are then used by \"S. thermophilus\". Both species produce lactic acid, which gives yogurt its tart flavor and acts as a preservative. The resulting decrease in pH also partially coagulates the milk proteins, such as casein, resulting in yogurt's thickness. While fermenting milk, \"L. d. bulgaricus\" produces acetaldehyde, one of the main yogurt aroma components. Some strains of \"L. d. bulgaricus\", such as \"L. bulgaricus\" GLB44, also produce bacteriocins, which have been shown to kill undesired bacteria \"in vitro\".\n\nSome of the biggest importers of the bacterium are Japan, the United States, and the European Union.\n\nIt has also been considered a contaminant of beer due to its homofermentative production of lactic acid, an off-flavor in many styles of beer. In other styles of beer, however, lactic acid bacteria can contribute to the overall appearance, aroma, taste, and/or mouthfeel, and generally produce an otherwise pleasing sourness.\n\n\"Lactobacillus delbrueckii\" subsp. \"bulgaricus\" was first identified in 1905 by Stamen Grigorov, who named it \"Bacillus bulgaricus\".\n\nIlya Metchnikoff, a professor at the Pasteur Institute in Paris, researched the relationship between the longevity of Bulgarians and their consumption of yogurt. He had the idea that aging is caused by putrefactive activity, or proteolysis, by microbes that produce toxic substances in the intestine.\n\nProteolytic bacteria such as clostridia, which are part of the normal intestinal flora, produce toxic substances including phenols, ammonia and indols by digestion of proteins. These compounds are responsible for what Metchnikoff called \"intestinal auto-intoxication\", which, according to him, was the cause of the physical changes associated with old age, a concept that has no scientific basis. It was already known at that time that fermentation with lactic acid bacteria inhibits the deterioration of milk because of its low pH.\n\nMetchnikoff's research also noted that rural populations in Southeastern Europe and the Russian steppes daily consume milk fermented with lactic acid bacteria and live relatively longer than other populations. Based on these data Metchnikoff proposed that consumption of fermented milk seeds the intestine with harmless lactic acid bacteria increasing intestinal acidity and suppressing the growth of proteolytic bacteria.\n\n\"Lactobacillus bulgaricus\" is a constituent in VSL#3. This proprietary, standardized, formulation of live bacteria may be used in combination with conventional therapies to treat ulcerative colitis and requires a prescription.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4675536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4675536", "title": "Master–slave morality", "text": "Master–slave morality\n\nMaster–slave morality is a central theme of Friedrich Nietzsche's works, in particular the first essay of \"On the Genealogy of Morality\". Nietzsche argued that there were two fundamental types of morality: \"master morality\" and \"slave morality\". Master morality values pride and power, while slave morality values things like kindness, empathy, and sympathy. Master morality weighs actions on good or bad consequences (i. e., classical virtues and vices, consequentialism), unlike slave morality, which weighs actions on a scale of good or evil intentions (e. g., Christian virtues and vices, Kantian deontology).\n\nFor Nietzsche, a particular morality is inseparable from the formation of a particular culture, meaning that a culture's language, codes and practices, narratives, and institutions are informed by the struggle between these two moral structures (see valuation).\n\nNietzsche defined master morality as the morality of the strong-willed. Nietzsche criticizes the view (which he identifies with contemporary British ideology) that good is everything that is helpful, and bad is everything that is harmful. He argues proponents of this view have forgotten the origins of its values and it is based merely on a non-critical acceptance of habit: what is useful has always been defined as good, therefore usefulness is goodness as a value. He continues explaining that in the prehistoric state \"the value or non-value of an action was derived from its consequences\" but ultimately \"[t]here are no moral phenomena at all, only moral interpretations of phenomena.\" For strong-willed men, the \"good\" is the noble, strong, and powerful, while the \"bad\" is the weak, cowardly, timid, and petty. \n\nThe essence of master morality is \"nobility\". Other qualities that are often valued in master morality are open-mindedness, courage, truthfulness, trust, and an accurate sense of one's self-worth. Master morality begins in the \"noble man\", with a spontaneous idea of the good; then the idea of bad develops as what is not good. \"The noble type of man experiences \"itself\" as determining values; it does not need approval; it judges, \"what is harmful to me is harmful in itself\"; it knows itself to be that which first accords honour to things; it is \"value-creating\".\" In this sense, the master morality is the full recognition that \"oneself\" is the measure of all moral truths. Insofar as something is helpful to the strong-willed man, it is like what he values in himself; therefore, the strong-willed man values such things as good because they aid him in a life-long process of self-actualization through the will to power.\n\nAccording to Nietzsche, masters are creators of morality; slaves respond to master morality with their slave morality. Unlike master morality, which is sentiment, slave morality is based on re-sentiment—devaluing that which the master values and the slave does not have. As master morality originates in the strong, slave morality originates in the weak. Because slave morality is a reaction to oppression, it vilifies its oppressors. Slave morality is the inverse of master morality. As such, it is characterized by pessimism and cynicism. Slave morality is created in opposition to what master morality values as \"good\". \n\nSlave morality does not aim at exerting one's will by strength, but by careful subversion. It does not seek to transcend the masters, but to make them slaves as well. The essence of slave morality is \"utility\": The good is what is most useful for the whole community, not just the strong. Nietzsche saw this as a contradiction. Since the powerful are few in number, compared to the masses of the weak, the weak gain power by corrupting the strong into believing that the causes of slavery (viz., the will to power) are \"evil\", as are the qualities the weak originally could not choose because of their weakness. By saying humility is voluntary, slave morality avoids admitting that their humility was in the beginning forced upon them by a master. Biblical principles of humility, charity, and pity are the result of universalizing the plight of the slave onto all humankind, and thus enslaving the masters as well. \"The \"democratic\" movement is the heir to Christianity\"—the political manifestation of slave morality because of its obsession with freedom and equality.\n\nThis struggle between master and slave moralities recurs historically. According to Nietzsche, ancient Greek and Roman societies were grounded in master morality. The Homeric hero is the strong-willed man, and the classical roots of the \"Iliad\" and \"Odyssey\" exemplified Nietzsche's master morality. He calls the heroes \"men of a noble culture\", giving a substantive example of master morality. Historically, master morality was defeated, as the slave morality of Judaism and Christianity spread throughout the Roman Empire. \n\nThe essential struggle between cultures has always been between the Roman (master, strong) and the Judean (slave, weak). Nietzsche condemns the triumph of slave morality in the West, saying that the democratic movement is the \"collective degeneration of man\". He claimed that the nascent democratic movement of his time was essentially slavish and weak. Weakness conquered strength, slave conquered master, re-sentiment conquered sentiment. This ressentiment Nietzsche calls \"priestly vindictiveness\", which is based on the jealous weak seeking to enslave the strong, and thus erode the basis for power itself by pulling the powerful down. Such movements were, according to Nietzsche, inspired by \"the most intelligent revenge\" of the weak. Nietzsche saw democracy and Christianity as the same emasculating impulse which sought to make everyone equal by making everyone a slave.\n\nNietzsche did not necessarily believe that everyone should adopt master morality as the \"be-all, end-all\" behavior. He thought that the revaluation of morals would correct the inconsistencies in both master and slave moralities. But he asserted that for the individual, master morality was preferable to slave morality. Walter Kaufmann disagrees that Nietzsche actually preferred master morality to slave morality. He certainly gives slave morality a more thorough critique, but this is partly because he thought of slave morality as society's more imminent danger.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22674559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22674559", "title": "Material flow", "text": "Material flow\n\nMaterial flow is the description of the transportation of raw materials, pre-fabricates, parts, components, integrated objects and final products as a flow of entities. The term applies mainly to advanced modeling of supply chain management.\n\nAs industrial material flow can easily become very complex, several different specialized simulation tools have been developed for complex systems. Typical tools are:\n"}
{"id": "3478014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3478014", "title": "Moralistic fallacy", "text": "Moralistic fallacy\n\nThe moralistic fallacy is the informal fallacy of assuming that an aspect of nature which has socially unpleasant consequences cannot exist. Its typical form is \"if \"X\" were true, then it would happen that \"Z\"!\", where \"Z\" is a morally, socially or politically undesirable thing. What should be moral is assumed \"a priori\" to also be naturally occurring. The moralistic fallacy is sometimes presented as the inverse of the naturalistic fallacy. However, it could be seen as a variation of the very same naturalistic fallacy; the difference between them could be considered pragmatical, depending on the intentions of that who uses it: naturalistic fallacy if the user wants to justify existing social practices with the argument that they are natural; moralistic fallacy if the user wants to combat existing social practices with the argument of denying that they are natural.\n\nSteven Pinker writes that \"[t]he naturalistic fallacy is the idea that what is found in nature is good. It was the basis for social Darwinism, the belief that helping the poor and sick would get in the way of evolution, which depends on the survival of the fittest. Today, biologists denounce the naturalistic fallacy because they want to describe the natural world honestly, without people deriving morals about how we ought to behave (as in: If birds and beasts engage in adultery, infanticide, cannibalism, it must be OK).\" Pinker goes on to explain that \"[t]he moralistic fallacy is that what is good is found in nature. It lies behind the bad science in nature-documentary voiceovers: lions are mercy-killers of the weak and sick, mice feel no pain when cats eat them, dung beetles recycle dung to benefit the ecosystem and so on. It also lies behind the romantic belief that humans cannot harbor desires to kill, rape, lie, or steal because that would be too depressing or reactionary.\"\n\nMoralistic fallacy:\n\nNaturalistic fallacy:\n\nSometimes basic scientific findings or interpretations are rejected, or their discovery or development or acknowledgement is opposed or restricted, through assertions of potential misuse or harmfulness.\n\nIn the late 1970s, Bernard Davis, in response to growing political and public calls to restrict basic research (versus applied research), amid criticisms of dangerous knowledge (versus dangerous applications), applied the term \"moralistic fallacy\" toward its present use.\n\nIn natural science, the moralistic fallacy can result in rejection or suppression of basic science, whose goal is understanding the natural world, on account of its potential misuse in applied science, whose goal is the development of technology or technique. This blurs \"scientific assessment\", discussed in natural sciences (like physics or biology), versus \"significance assessment\", weighed in social sciences (like social psychology, sociology, and political science), or in behavioral sciences (like psychology).\n\nDavis asserted that in basic science, the descriptive, explanatory, and thus predictive ability of information is primary, not its origin or its applications, since knowledge cannot be ensured against misuse, and misuse cannot falsify knowledge. Both misuse of scientific work and suppression of scientific knowledge can have undesired or even undesirable effects. In the early 20th century, the development of quantum physics made possible the atomic bomb in the mid 20th century. Without quantum physics, however, much of the technology of communications and imaging might have been impossible.\n\nScientific theories with abundant research support can be discarded in public debates, where general agreement is central but can be utterly false. The obligation of basic scientists to inform the public, however, can be stymied by contrasting claims from others both rousing alarm and touting assurances of protecting the public. Davis had indicated that greater and clearer familiarization with the uses and limitations of science can more effectively prevent knowledge misuse or harm.\n\nNatural science can help humans understand the natural world, but it cannot make policy, moral, or behavioral decisions. Questions involving \"values\"—what people should do—are more effectively addressed through discourse in social sciences, not by restriction of basic science. Misunderstanding of the potential of science, and misplaced expectations, have resulted in moral and decisionmaking impediments, but suppressing science is unlikely to resolve these dilemmas.\n\nThe Seville Statement on Violence was adopted, in Seville, Spain, on 16 May 1986, by an international meeting of scientists convened by the Spanish National Commission for UNESCO. UNESCO adopted the statement, on 16 November 1989, at the twenty-fifth session of its General Conference. The statement purported to refute \"the notion that organized human violence is biologically determined\".\n\nSome, including Steven Pinker, have criticized the Seville Statement as an example of the moralistic fallacy. Research in the areas of evolutionary psychology and neuropsychology suggest that human violence has biological roots.\n\n"}
{"id": "561582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=561582", "title": "Negative gearing", "text": "Negative gearing\n\nNegative gearing is a form of financial leverage whereby an investor borrows money to acquire an income-producing investment and the gross income generated by the investment (at least in the short term) is less than the cost of owning and managing the investment, including depreciation and interest charged on the loan (but excluding capital repayments). The investor may enter into a negatively geared investment expecting tax benefits or the capital gain on the investment, when the investment is ultimately disposed of, to exceed the accumulated losses of holding the investment. The investor would take into account the tax treatment of negative gearing, which may generate additional benefits to the investor in the form of tax benefits if the loss on a negatively geared investment is tax-deductible against the investor's other taxable income and if the capital gain on the sale is given a favourable tax treatment. \nNegative gearing is often discussed with regard to real estate, where rental income is less than mortgage interest costs, but may also apply to shares whose dividend income falls short of interest costs on a margin loan. The tax treatment may or may not be the same between the two.\n\nPositive gearing occurs when one borrows to invest in an income-producing asset and the returns (income) from that asset exceed the cost of borrowing. From then on, the investor must pay tax on the rental income profit until the asset is sold, when point the investor must pay capital gains tax on any profit.\n\nWhen the income generated covers the interest, it is simply a geared investment, which creates passive income. A negative gearing strategy makes a profit under any of the following circumstances:\n\n\nThe investor must be able to fund any shortfall until the asset is sold or until the investment becomes positively geared (income > interest). The different tax treatment of planned ongoing losses and possible future capital gains affects the investor's final return. In countries that tax capital gains at a lower rate than income, it is possible for an investor to make a loss overall before taxation but a small gain after taxpayer subsidies.\n\nSome countries, including Australia, Japan, and New Zealand, allow unrestricted use of negative gearing losses to offset income from other sources. Several other OECD countries, including the US, Germany, Sweden, Canada, and France, allow loss offsetting with some restrictions. Applying tax deductions from negatively geared investment housing to other income is not permitted in the UK or the Netherlands. With respect to investment decisions and market prices, other taxes such as stamp duties and capital gains tax may be more or less onerous in those countries, increasing or decreasing the attractiveness of residential property as an investment.\n\nA negatively-geared investment property will generally remain negatively geared for several years, when the rental income will have increased with inflation to the point that the investment is positively geared (the rental income is greater than the interest cost).\n\nThe tax treatment of negative gearing (also termed \"rental loss offset against other income\") varies. For example:\n\nAustralia allows the application of property losses arising from negative gearing against other types of income, such as wage or business income, with only a few limits or restrictions. Negative gearing by property investors reduced personal income tax revenue in Australia by $600 million in the 2001/02 tax year, $3.9 billion in 2004/05 and $13.2 billion in 2010/11.\n\nNegative gearing is a controversial political issue in Australia and was a major issue during the 2016 federal election, during which the Labor Party proposed restricting (but not eliminating) negative gearing and to halve the capital gains tax discount to 25%. Analysis found that negative gearing in Australia provides a greater benefit to wealthier Australians than the less wealthy. Then Federal Treasurer Scott Morrison, in defence of negative gearing, cited tax data that shows that numerous middle income groups (he mentioned teachers, nurses, and electricians) benefit in larger numbers from negative gearing than finance managers. (The raw numbers do not show the extent to which different professional groups benefit.)\n\nTraditionally, Australian taxpayers have been allowed to negatively gear their investment properties, in the strict sense of investing in property at an initial loss. Negative gearing was restricted by a prohibition on the transfer of contingent property income and the property losses could not offset income from labour. It is assumed this applied to losses as well as income, but this is unclear in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936. \n\nA common method of bypassing the restrictions on property losses offsetting income from labour was to convert such income into another form through the use of partnerships and other legal mechanisms. As a result, this restriction may not have been significant. A partnership, trust or similar legal mechaninsm allowed an individual, or individuals, to pool their incomes and losses, thus allowing them to offset property losses against other incomes. This option was not available to individuals who derived their income from wages. \n\nIn 1983, the Victorian Deputy Commissioner of Taxation briefly denied Victorian property investors the deduction for interest in excess of the rental income, so losses could not be transferred nor moved to a future tax year. That ruling was quickly over-ruled by the federal tax commissioner.\n\nin 1985, under the Australian Labor Party Hawke government, negative gearing rules were changed so that property losses were no longer quarantined and instead could offset wage income. Six months later, following the tax summit in July 1985, the Hawke government undid this change, once more quarantining negative gearing interest expenses on new transactions so that they could be claimed only against rental income, not other income. (Any excess loss could be carried forward to offset property income in later years.) That ensured that at personal level and, more importantly, at a national level, property losses would not be subsidised by income from personal exertion. In applying the formula, all previous governments thereby isolated and consequently discouraged capital speculation being subsidised from the general income tax receipts pool.\n\nIn addition, a capital gains tax (CGT) was introduced in Australia on 20 September 1985. While a separate tax, it is often associated with negative gearing.\n\nThe Hawke government's reversion to the earlier system in which property losses could not offset income from labour was unpopular with property investors. These investors claimed this reversion had caused investment in rental accommodation to dry up and rents to rise substantially. This was unsupported by evidence other than localised increases in real rents in both Perth and Sydney, which also had the lowest vacancy rates of all capital cities at the time. \n\nHowever, in July 1987, after lobbying by the property industry, the Federal Labor government with Paul Keating as its Treasurer, reversed its decision once more, allowing negative gearing losses to be applied against income from labour.\n\nAustralian tax treatment of negative gearing is as follows:\n\n\nThe tax treatment of negative gearing and capital gains may benefit investors in a number of ways, including:\n\nHowever, in certain situations the tax rate applied to the capital gain may be higher than the rate of tax saving because of initial deductions such as for investors who have a low marginal tax rate while they make deductions but a high marginal rate in the year the capital gain is realised.\n\nIn contrast, the tax treatment of real estate by owner-occupiers differs from investment properties. Mortgage interest and upkeep expenses on a private property are not deductible, but any capital gain (or loss) made on disposal of a primary residence is tax-free. (Special rules apply on a change from private use to renting or vice versa and for what is considered a main residence.)\n\nThe economic and social effects of negative gearing in Australia are a matter of ongoing debate. Those in favour of negative gearing argue:\n\n\nOpponents of negative gearing argue:\n\n\nThe view that the temporary removal of negative gearing between 1985 and 1987 caused rents to rise has been challenged by Chief Economist of the ANZ Saul Eslake, who has been quoted as saying: It's true, according to Real Estate Institute data, that rents went up in Sydney and Perth. But the same data doesn't show any discernible increase in the other state capitals. I would say that, if negative gearing had been responsible for a surge in rents, then you should have observed it everywhere, not just two capitals. In fact, if you dig into other parts of the REI database, what you find is that vacancy rates were unusually low at that time before negative gearing was abolished.Eslake is referring to changes in inflation-adjusted rents (i.e., when CPI inflation is subtracted from the nominal rent increases). These are also known as real rent changes. Nominal rents nationally rose by over 25% during the two years that negative gearing was quarantined. They rose strongly in every Australian capital city, according to the official ABS CPI data. However, as nominal changes include inflation, they provide a less clear picture of how rents changed in effect, and of how changes such as disallowing property losses to offset other types of income affect rent.\n\nAdditionally, it is difficult to assess the impact no longer allowing such deductions had during those two years, given that these deductions had only been allowed for six months prior to their disallowance in July 1985.\n\nAn ABC Fact check report, posted on the 3rd of March 2016 and titled \"Fact check: Did abolishing negative gearing push up rents?\" provided the following, after inflation, rental cost changes, during the period negative gearing was abolished. (Rounded to whole numbers and listed by size of city). Sydney +2% to +4%, Melbourne +2% to 0%, Brisbane -3% to -4%, Perth 0% to +6% and Adelaide +1% to -3%. All values have the effects of inflation removed, which in 1986 was 9.18%. \n\nAs a comparison with house pricing, the medium house price in Sydney rose from $98000, in 1985, to $120025, in 1986, or after inflation, by 12.18%. In Brisbane the medium house price moved from $61550 to $63000, in the same period, or an after inflation, a change of -6.25%. The medium unit price in Sydney moved from $70500 to $72300, in the same period. An after inflation change of -6.07%. In brisbane the after inflation change for units was -0.05%.\n\nIn 2003, the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) stated in its submission to the Productivity Commission First Home Ownership Inquiry: there are no specific aspects of current tax arrangements designed to encourage investment in property relative to other investments in the Australian tax system. Nor is there any recent tax policy initiative we can point to that accounts for the rapid growth in geared property investment. But the fact is that when we observe the results, resources and finance are being disproportionately channelled into this area, and property promoters use tax effectiveness as an important selling point.They went on to say that \"the most sensible area to look for moderation of demand is among investors\", and that: the taxation treatment in Australia is more favourable to investors than is the case in other countries. In particular, the following areas appear worthy of further study by the Productivity Commission:i. ability to negatively gear an investment property when there is little prospect of the property being cash-flow positive for many years;ii. the benefit that investors receive by virtue of the fact that when property depreciation allowances are \"clawed back\" through the capital gains tax, the rate of tax is lower than the rate that applied when depreciation was allowed in the first place.iii. the general treatment of property depreciation, including the ability to claim depreciation on loss-making investments.\n\nIn 2008, the report of the Senate Select Committee on Housing Affordability in Australia echoed the findings of the 2004 Productivity Commission report. One recommendation to the enquiry suggested that negative gearing should be capped: \"There should not be unlimited access. Millionaires and billionaires should not be able to access it, and you should not be able to access it on your 20th investment property. There should be limits to it.\"\n\nA 2015 report from the Senate Economics References Committee argues that, while negative gearing has an influence on housing affordability, the primary issue is a mismatch between supply and demand. A submission to this committee from the Department of Social Services stated that:[while] demand for housing has increased significantly over the last 30 years, the supply of new dwellings has not responded, with average annual completions of new dwellings remaining around 150,000 since the mid-1980s.The effect of negative gearing on the supply side of dwelling construction is difficult to pin down. Commentary from Eslake and others has highlighted the preponderance of negatively-geared purchases in established suburbs where the probability of a lightly-taxed capital gain exists, challenging the idea that negative gearing leads to substantial amounts of new construction. Many economists have commented extensively on the tax subsidy being made available to speculative buyers in competition against homebuyers, who have no such tax subsidy, leading to significant social dislocation.\n\nAdditionally, the tax subsidy feeding into higher home prices adds to the wealth of those taking advantage of negative gearing. The process that crowds out domestic home owners by pushing up the price of housing also makes the successful user of negative gearing more asset rich due to the increase in land value. This allows these people to borrow further funds against equity in the previously acquired properties, resulting in further acquisitions under tax subsidy. This process can raise prices and thereby make it harder for people who wish to buy a house as an owner-occupier.\n\nWhile allowing for negative gearing in its basic form, the United Kingdom does not allow the transfer of one type of income (or loss) to another type of income. This is due to its schedular system of taxation. In this type of taxation system, the tax paid is dependent on income source. Therefore, an individual who received an income from labour and from land would pay two separate tax rates for the two relevant income sources.\n\nBetween 1997 and 2007, the Tax Law Rewrite Project changed this system by simplifying the schedules. As with the previous system, people would not be allowed to transfer incomes (or losses).\n\nA UK government online resource on renting out property in England and Wales outlines how to offset losses. It states that losses can be offset against \"future profits by carrying it forward to a later year\" or against \"profits from other properties (if you have them)\".\n\nNew Zealand allows negative gearing and the transfer of losses to other income streams, with some restrictions.\n\nThe Rental Income Guide states a loss can only be deducted against other incomes if the rental income is at market rate.\n\nThe Opposition Labour Party attempted to raise negative gearing in the 2011 election, but after their failure to win government the issue reduced in significance.\n\nIn principle, Canada does not allow the transfer of income streams. However, the most current Canadian tax form indicates this can occur in some circumstances. According to \"Line 221 - Carrying charges and interest expenses\", interest payments from an investment designed to generate an income can be deducted:Claim the following carrying charges and interest you paid to earn income from investments: [...] Most interest you pay on money you borrow for investment purposes, but generally only if you use it to try to earn investment income, including interest and dividends. However, if the only earnings your investment can produce are capital gains, you cannot claim the interest you paid.Other sources indicate the deduction must be reasonable and that people should contact the Canada Revenue Agency for more information. The \"Rental Income Includes Form T776\" states people can deduce rental losses from other sources of income: \"You have a rental loss if your rental expenses are more than your gross rental income. If you incur the expenses to earn income, you can deduct your rental loss against your other sources of income.\" However, there is a caveat: the rental loss must be reasonable. What is reasonable is not defined in the \"Rental Income Includes Form T776\" Guide.\n\nBased on these sources, claiming rental losses against other incomes in a given year is allowed as long as a profit is made over the life of the investment, excluding the effects of capital gains.\n\nIt should be noted that Canada has a Federal and Provincial income tax, and the above only relates to Federal income tax.\n\nIn principle, the US federal tax does not allow the transfer of income streams. In general, taxpayers can only deduct expenses of renting property from their rental income, as renting property out is usually considered a passive activity. However, if renters are considered to have actively participated in the activities, they can claim deductions from rental losses against their other \"nonpassive income\". A definition of \"active participation\" is outlined in the \"Reporting Rental Income, Expenses, and Losses\" guide:You actively participated in a rental real estate activity if you (and your spouse) owned at least 10% of the rental property and you made management decisions or arranged for others to provide services (such as repairs) in a significant and \"bona fide\" sense. Management decisions that may count as active participation include approving new tenants, deciding on rental terms, approving expenditures, and other similar decisions.It is possible deduct any loss against other incomes, depending on a range of factors.\n\nJapan allows tax payers to offset rental losses against other income.\n\nIndividuals can claim losses against rental loss with minimal restrictions, but if the property was owned through a partnership or trust there are restrictions.\n\nThere are a number of additional rules, such as restricting claims of losses due to Bad Debt. Additional information can be found in the Japan Tax Site.\n\nThe German tax system is complex, but within the bounds of standard federal income tax, Germany does not allow the transfer of income. Rental losses can only be offset against rental income. As stated on the Global Property Guide site, \"Owners can deduct any expenses from the gross receipts, which were incurred to produce, maintain and safeguard that income.\"\n\nGermany recognizes seven sources of income:\n\n\nThe income from each of these sources is calculated separately.\n\nRental income is taxed as income and is subject to the progressive tax rate. Interest on loans provided to finance real estate, expenses, and property-related cost (e.g., management fees, insurance) can be deducted from the taxable rental income.\n\nIn principle, the Dutch tax system does not allow the transfer of income. Most citizens calculate tax, separately, in 3 income groups:\n\nHowever, I am unable to identify a clear definition where rental income fits in these three categories in the government taxation laws. \n\nDutch resident and non-resident companies and partnerships owning Dutch property are in principle allowed to deduct interest expenses on loans from banks or affiliated companies, and property-related costs from their taxable income.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "700131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=700131", "title": "One-loop Feynman diagram", "text": "One-loop Feynman diagram\n\nIn physics, a one-loop Feynman diagram is a connected Feynman diagram with only one cycle (unicyclic). Such a diagram can be obtained from a connected tree diagram by taking two external lines of the same type and joining them together into an edge.\n\nDiagrams with loops (in graph theory, these kinds of loops are called cycles, while the word loop is an edge connecting a vertex with itself) correspond to the quantum corrections to the classical field theory. Because one-loop diagrams only contain one cycle, they express the next-to-classical contributions called the \"semiclassical contributions\".\n\nOne-loop diagrams are usually computed as the integral over one independent momentum that can \"run in the cycle\". The Casimir effect, Hawking radiation and Lamb shift are examples of phenomena whose existence can be implied using one-loop Feynman diagrams, especially the well-known \"triangle diagram\":\n\nThe evaluation of one-loop Feynman diagrams usually leads to divergent expressions, which are either due to:\n\n\nInfrared divergences are usually dealt with by assigning the zero mass particles a small mass \"λ\", evaluating the corresponding expression and then taking the limit formula_1. Ultraviolet divergences are dealt with by renormalization.\n\nThe one-loop corrections lead to the following effective action:\n"}
{"id": "559737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=559737", "title": "Peter Dutton", "text": "Peter Dutton\n\nPeter Craig Dutton (born 18 November 1970) is an Australian Liberal Party politician serving as Home Affairs Minister in the Morrison Government, and has served as Member of Parliament (MP) for Dickson since 2001. Dutton served as Minister for Health and Sport from 2013 to 2014, and Immigration Minister from 2014 to 2017 in the Abbott and Turnbull Government.\n\nOn 18 July 2017, he was named Minister for Home Affairs and officially appointed by the Governor-General on 20 December 2017 to lead the Department of Home Affairs, a newly created portfolio giving him oversight of ASIO, the AFP and Border Force. He previously served as the Minister for Workforce Participation and Minister for Revenue and Assistant Treasurer in the Howard Government. Dutton has been touted as a future Prime Minister.\n\nIn the first August 2018 spill he challenged Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull for leadership of the Liberal Party, but was defeated by 48 votes to 35. In the aftermath of the spill Dutton resigned from Second Turnbull Ministry and rejected an invitation from Turnbull to remain in the Cabinet. In the second leadership contest, Dutton was defeated by Treasurer and Acting Home Affairs Minister Scott Morrison by 45 votes to 40. Following the appointment of Scott Morrison as the new Prime Minister on 24 August by the Governor-General, Morrison re-appointed Peter Dutton to the Minister for Home Affairs, but relinquished his duties and responsibilities for Immigration and Border Protection, and appointed David Coleman as Immigration Minister.\n\nDutton was born in the northern Brisbane suburb of Boondall, the eldest of five children, with one brother and three sisters. His mother Ailsa Leitch worked in childcare and his father Bruce Dutton was a builder. Dutton finished high school at the Anglican St Paul's School, Bald Hills.\n\nDutton joined the Young Liberals in 1988. He became the policy vice-chair of the Bayside Young Liberals the following year and chair of the branch in 1990. At the 1989 Queensland state election, Dutton ran unsuccessfully as the Liberal candidate against Tom Burns in the safe Labor seat of Lytton.\n\nDutton graduated from the Queensland Police Academy in 1990. He was a Queensland Police officer for nine years, working in the Drug Squad in Brisbane in the early 1990s. He also worked in the Sex Offenders Squad and the National Crime Authority. As a second job, he worked with his father in a building business.\n\nIn 1999, Dutton left the police force to become a businessman, completing a Bachelor of Business at the Queensland University of Technology. He and his father founded the business Dutton Holdings, which was registered in 2000; it operated under six different trading and business names. The company bought, renovated, and converted buildings into childcare centres, and in 2002 sold three childcare centres to the now defunct ABC Learning. ABC Learning continued to pay rent to Dutton Holdings for a commercial lease until at least 2007. Dutton Holdings continues to trade under the name Dutton Building & Development.\n\nDutton was elected to the Division of Dickson at the 2001 election, defeating Labor's Cheryl Kernot. He was elevated to the ministry after the 2004 election as Minister for Workforce Participation, a position he held until January 2006. He was then appointed Assistant Treasurer and Minister for Revenue. He successfully retained Dickson at the 2007 election, which saw the government lose office. However, his margin was reduced to just 217 votes more than Labor's Fiona McNamara.\n\nFollowing the 2007 election, Dutton was promoted to shadow cabinet by the new Liberal leader Brendan Nelson, as Shadow Minister for Finance, Competition Policy and Deregulation. In 2008, he chose not to be present in the chamber during the apology to the Stolen Generations, which enjoyed bipartisan support. He said \"I regarded it as something which was not going to deliver tangible outcomes to kids who are being raped and tortured in communities in the 21st century.\" Later, in a 2014 interview with the Sydney\nMorning Herald, Dutton said he regretted boycotting the apology: \"I underestimated the symbolic and cultural significance of it.\"\n\nIn September 2008, Nelson was replaced as Liberal leader by Malcolm Turnbull, who appointed Dutton as Shadow Minister for Health and Ageing. He retained that position when Tony Abbott succeeded Turnbull as leader in December 2009. In June 2010, Dutton released the Coalition's mental health policy. It received favourable reviews, with \"The Australian\" describing it as \"the most significant announcement by any political party in relation to a targeted, evidence-based investment in mental health\". Dutton retained his seat with a positive swing at the 2010 federal election, despite an unfavourable redistribution. In the lead-up to the 2013 federal election, he announced a range of Coalition health policies, which were received favourably by industry groups. The Australian Medical Association said \"the Coalition has delivered a strong package of practical, affordable health policies that would strengthen general practice\", while Cancer Council Australia said that \"Dutton’s promise to finalise the bowel cancer screening program by 2020 would save an additional 35,000 lives over the next 40 years.\"\n\nAs the 2010 election approached, it looked like Dutton would lose to the Labor candidate due to a redistribution of division boundaries that had erased his majority and made Dickson notionally Labor. To safeguard himself, Dutton sought pre-selection for the merged Liberal National Party in the safe Liberal seat of McPherson on the Gold Coast (despite not living in or near McPherson). Some constituents complained, \"The abandoning of a seat by a sitting MP halfway through a parliamentary term to contest pre-selection in a seat over 100 kilometres to the south is not looked upon favourably.\"\n\nDutton lost the McPherson pre-selection to Karen Andrews, reportedly due to misgivings from former Nationals in the area. He then asked the LNP to \"deliver him a seat for which he doesn't have to fight other preselection candidates.\" Liberal MP Alex Somlyay (the chief Opposition whip of the time) said that Dutton's expectation of an uncontested preselection was \"unusual.\" When the state executive didn't provide Dutton an unchallenged preselection, Dutton reluctantly returned to campaign for the seat of Dickson.\n\nDutton retained his seat at the 2013 election. He was appointed to the Ministry by then Prime Minister Tony Abbott, and served as Minister for Health and Minister for Sport.\n\nAs Health Minister, Dutton announced the world-leading $20 billion Medical Research Future Fund. As announced, the capital and any ongoing capital gains of the Medical Research Future Fund will be preserved in perpetuity.\n\nUnder Minister Dutton, projected funding in the health portfolio increased in the 2014-15 Budget to $66.9 billion, an increase of 7.5 percent from $62.2 billion in 2012-13, the final full year of the Labor Government. Projected expenditure on Medicare increased over 9.5 percent from $18.5 billion in 2012-13 under Labor to a projected $20.32 billion in 2014-15 under Dutton. Funding for public hospital services increased by nearly 14 percent under Dutton in the 2014-15 Budget to a projected $15.12 billion compared to $13.28 billion in the last full year of the Labor Government in 2012-13.\n\nIn a 2015 poll by \"Australian Doctor\" magazine, Dutton was voted the worst health minister in the last 35 years by 46 percent of respondents. However, only 1,100 out of the magazine's 20,000 readers voted.\n\nOn 23 December 2014, Dutton was sworn in as the Minister for Immigration and Border Protection after a cabinet\nreshuffle.\n\nIn September 2015, Dutton cancelled the visa of anti-abortion activist Troy\nNewman, over remarks in his 2000 book \"Their Blood Cries\nOut\".\n\nIn 2016, News Corp Sunday political editor\nSamantha Maiden wrote a column\ncritical of Jamie Briggs. Dutton drafted a text message to Briggs describing Maiden as a\n\"mad fucking witch\" but inadvertently sent it to Maiden. Maiden accepted an apology\nfrom Dutton.\n\nBefore the 2016 election Dutton said of refugees \n\"many ... won't be numerate or literate in their own language let alone English\", and “These people would be taking Australian jobs\". Turnbull\ndefended Dutton by stating he is an \"outstanding Immigration\nMinister\". Against a statewide swing against the government of 2.9%, Dutton's\nmargin fell from 6.7% to 1.6%, leaving him with a margin of less than\n3,000 votes against Labor candidate Linda Lavarch.\n\nOn 5 June 2015, Dutton denied claims made by Greens Senator Sarah Hanson-Young that she was spied on\nduring a visit to Nauru. At the same time he called into question her\ncredibility saying \"she's written to me on some issues which are completely fanciful when you have a look at the facts and she's got a track record of making these things up.\"\nHe also claimed that \"What Sarah Hanson-Young is about is publicity.\nShe loves the camera and she loves to see her own name in the paper.\nThat’s the start and finish of Sarah Hanson-Young.\"\nHanson-Young responded that \"Peter Dutton can attack and insult me as\nmuch as he likes, but nothing will change the fact that my work has\nrevealed systemic child abuse and the rape of young women on Nauru\nunder his watch.\" The spying claims\nwere later confirmed by the Immigration Department and Wilson Security who carried out the spying operation.\n\nIn June 2015, an au pair who was detained at Brisbane Airport made a phone call and had her tourist visa reinstated. In November, in a second case, Dutton granted a visa to another au pair, despite his department warning him that she was at risk of breaching her work conditions on her tourist visa. Dutton indicated that he knew neither tourist. In August 2018, Roman Quaedvlieg indicated that he had personal knowledge of one of the cases, and was seeking to correct Hansard if it did not match his knowledge. A third au pair was granted a visa due to lobbying by AFL chief Gillon McLachlan, she was due to stay with his relative Callum Maclachlan. Dutton's department again warned him there were indications that she was intending to work for Callum's family. A Senate inquiry into two of the cases is due to report on 11 September 2018.\n\nOn 11 September 2015, Dutton was overheard on an open microphone, prior to a community meeting on Syrian\nrefugees, joking about rising sea levels in the Pacific Islands. He said \"time doesn't mean anything when you're about to have water lapping at your door\". Dutton initially refused to\napologise, saying it was a private conversation, but later\napologised. The foreign minister of the\nMarshall Islands at the time, Tony deBrum, responded by writing\nthe \"insensitivity knows no bounds in the big polluting island down\n[south]\" and the \"Next time waves are battering my home [and] my\ngrandkids are scared, I'll ask Peter Dutton to come over, and we'll\nsee if he is still laughing,\"\n\nIn November 2016, Dutton said it was a mistake by the Malcolm Fraser administration to have admitted Lebanese Muslim\nimmigrants. Foreign\nMinister Julie Bishop said Dutton was making a specific point\nabout those charged with terrorism offences. \"He made it quite clear\nthat he respects and appreciates the contribution that the Lebanese\ncommunity make in Australia.\"\n\nOn 15 April 2017 shots were fired by the Papua New Guinea defence force into the Manus Island Detention Centre. Dutton responded saying \"There was difficulty, as I understand it, in the community. There was an alleged incident where three asylum seekers were alleged to be leading a local five year old boy back toward the facility and there was a lot of angst around that, if you like, within the local PNG community.\" \"I think there was concern about why the boy was being led or for what purpose he was being led away back into the regional processing centre. So I think it's fair to say that the mood had elevated quite quickly. I think some of the local residents were quite angry about this particular incident and another alleged sexual assault.\"\n\nHowever, the regional police commander on Manus Island said a young boy who was 10, not five, had gone to the centre two weeks earlier to ask for food. He said \"It’s a total separate incident altogether\" The Greens senator Nick McKim said Dutton had been caught telling\nan outrageous lie. \"This has disturbing echoes of the\nChildren Overboard affair lies.\"\n\nOn 31 October 2017, the Papuan Government closed down the Manus Island regional processing centre. However, 600 men residing in the processing centre refused to be moved to alternative accommodation in the town of Lorengau and staged a protest. Dutton defended the closure of the processing centre and asserted that the Papuan authorities had given notice of the camp's impending closure in May 2017. He also rejected Australian Greens Senator Nick McKim's report that there was no safe alternative accommodation available as false and claimed McKim was inciting trouble. Following a prolonged standoff with Papuan security forces, the remaining men were evacuated, many forcibly, to new accommodation. Arrangements have been made to resettle an unspecified number of the asylum seekers in the United States. The others will be moved to either a different part of Papua New Guinea or a different country.\n\nIn mid November 2017, Dutton rejected an offer by the newly-elected New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern to resettle 150 asylum seekers from the Manus Island detention centre in New Zealand and warned that it would have repercussions for the two countries' bilateral relations. He also claimed that New Zealand's offer would encourage people smugglers. Dutton also criticised a New Zealand offer to provide $3 million for services for asylum seekers on Manus and Nauru as a \"waste of money\" that could be spend elsewhere, such as displaced people in Indonesia. In addition, Dutton criticised Australia's Opposition Leader Bill Shorten's call for Australia to accept the New Zealand offer as an attempt to appease the Labor Left with \"cheap political stunts and mealy-mouthed words\".\n\nOn 20 December 2017, Dutton was appointed the Minister for Home Affairs with responsibilities of overseeing the Department of Home Affairs which was established on the 20 December 2017 by Administrative Arrangement Order. The Home Affairs portfolio is a major re-arrangement of national security, law enforcement, emergency management, transport security, border control, and immigration functions.\n\nIn March 2018 Dutton made calls to treat white South African farmers, as refugees, stating that \"they need help from a civilised country\". However, his offer was rejected by Afrikaner rights organisation AfriForum, which stated that the future of Afrikaners was in Africa, as well as by the survivalist group the Suidlanders, which took credit for bringing the issue of a purported \"white genocide\" to international attention, and for Dutton's decision and was met with \"regret\" by the South African foreign ministry. The Australian High Commissioner was subsequently summoned by the South African foreign ministry, which expressed its offence at Dutton’s statements, and demanded a “full retraction”.\n\nHis proposal got support from some of his party's backbenchers and Liberal Democrat Senator David Leyonhjelm with Leyonhjelm later clarifying that he thought that South African farmers should be admitted under existing visa programmes, and could not be regarded as refugees. National Party of Australia MP Andrew Broad warned that the mass migration of South African farmers would result in food shortages in South Africa. Economic Freedom Fighters leader Julius Malema encouraged white farmers to take up Dutton's offer. After initially leaving the door open to changes, Australian Foreign Minister Julie Bishop subsequently ruled out any special deals for white South African farmers, emphasising the non-discriminatory nature of Australia's humanitarian visa programme. In a subsequent interview, Dutton vowed to push forward with his plans, saying that his critics were \"dead to me\".\n\nIn April 2018, it later emerged that Dutton's department had previously blocked asylum applications by a white farmer, and another white South African woman; with the decisions upheld by the Administrative Appeals Tribunal.\n\nAs both Immigration Minister and Home Affairs Minister, Peter Dutton has defended an amendment to the Migration Act 1958 that facilitates the denial or cancellation of Australian visas for non-citizens on \"character\" grounds. This stringent \"character test\" also affects non-citizens who have lived most of their lives in Australia or who have families living in the country. New Zealand nationals living in Australia were disproportionately affected by this \"character test\" with over 1,300 New Zealanders having been deported from Australia in the period between January 2015 and July 2018. According to a Home Affairs Department report, 620 New Zealanders had their visas cancelled on character grounds in 2017 alone.\n\nIn July 2017, Dutton's Department of Immigration and Border Protection introduced a special Skilled Independent subclass 189 visa to provide a pathway for New Zealanders holding a Special Category Visa to acquire Australian citizenship. The visa requires NZ nationals to have held a Special Category Visa for five years and to maintain an annual income of $53,900. Between 60,000 and 80,000 New Zealanders residing in Australia are eligible for the Skilled Independent subclass 189 visa. By February 2018, 1,512 skilled independent visas had been issued by late February 2018 with another 7,500 visas still being processed. The Skilled Independent subclass 189 visa was criticised by Australian Greens Senator Nick McKim as a stealth means of favouring \"English-speaking, white and wealthy\" migrants.\n\nIn early July 2018, Dutton ordered the deportation of controversial New Zealand Baptist Pastor Logan Robertson, who had disrupted services at two mosques in Kuraby and Darra in Brisbane. Dutton approved Robertson's visa cancellation on the grounds that he had violated the conditions of his visa, stating that \"we have a wonderful tradition in our country of freedom of speech, but we're not going to tolerate people going to a place of worship and harassing others.\" Robertson had early drawn controversy in New Zealand for his homophobic remarks and opposition to same-sex marriage.\n\nIn mid-July 2018, Dutton's immigration \"character test\" became the subject of a controversial Australian Broadcasting Corporation documentary, entitled \"Don't Call Australia Home\", focusing on New Zealanders who had been deported from Australia. In response, Dutton issued a tweet defending his deportation policy and claiming that deporting 184 \"bikies\" saved Australia A$116 million. In response, the New Zealand Minister of Justice Andrew Little, who also appeared in the documentary, criticised Australia's deportation laws for lacking \"humanitarian ideals.\" The documentary's release also coincided with the release of a 17-year old New Zealand youth from an Australian detention centre, which had caused friction between the two governments. In response, Dutton defended his Government's policy of deporting non-citizen criminals and chastised New Zealand for not contributing enough to assist Australian naval patrols intercepting the \"people smugglers.\"\n\nOn 21 August 2018, Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull called a snap ballot of the leadership of the Liberal Party following several days of feverish leadership speculation, of which Dutton was at the centre. Dutton responded to Turnbull's ballot call by formally challenging for the leadership of the party and won 35 of 83 votes available, 7 short of a majority. Dutton then resigned from the Ministry despite being offered by Turnbull to retain his position of Minister for Home Affairs, and the media speculated that Dutton and his conservative backers in the party were likely to challenge for the leadership again in the near future. Three days later, Dutton called for another leadership spill, and Malcolm Turnbull tendered his resignation to the Governor-General. Dutton was defeated by Treasurer and Acting Home Affairs Minister Scott Morrison by 45 votes to 40.\n\nDoubts surrounding Dutton's eligibility to be elected to parliament emerged on the grounds of section 44(v) of the Australian Constitution, as the family trust owned by Dutton operated a child care centre that received over $5.6 million in funding from the Commonwealth Government, in a situation similar to Bob Day's case. Although Dutton had received legal advice stating that he was not in breach of section 44(v), Labor had received contrary advice; at Turnbull's request, the Attorney-General referred the matter to the Solicitor-General. On 23 August, Labor attempted to move a motion to refer Dutton's eligibility as an MP to the High Court, in a similar manner to referrals made during the recent parliamentary citizenship crisis. The motion failed by 69 votes to 68. On 24 August, the Solicitor-General advised that in terms of section 44(v) Dutton was \"not incapable\" of sitting as an MP, although he added that he had been provided with limited factual information and that, owing to differences of judicial opinion in earlier decisions of the High Court on section 44(v), Dutton's legal position could not be entirely clear without a referral to the High Court. \nDutton was reappointed to his former Home Affairs portfolio by Scott Morrison in the Morrison Ministry, however the duties of Immigration and Border Protection were stripped from the role and were assigned to David Coleman.\n\nDutton is aligned with the right-wing, conservative faction of the Liberal Party. He has been described as a right-wing populist, and is opposed to an Australian republic.\n\nDutton said that people in Melbourne are scared of going out because of \"African gang violence\", leading to him being ridiculed by people who live in Melbourne.\n\nDutton opposes same-sex marriage. In March 2017 it was reported in \"The Sydney Morning Herald\" that Dutton \"said privately it was inevitable that same-sex marriage would become law in Australia so it would be better for the Coalition, rather than Labor, to control the process\". Dutton's actions publicly have been in opposition to same-sex advocates and \"the forcefulness of Mr Dutton's attack on corporate chief executives last week - in which he told them to 'stick to their knitting' - has aroused suspicion among some colleagues who believed he was committed to achieving a breakthrough on [same-sex marriage]\". The following month \"The Daily Telegraph\" reported that Dutton was asked by a lesbian for clarification on his position, and he \"told her he had been clear that he was against same-sex marriage\". In his political career, Dutton has voted \"very strongly against same sex marriage\". However, he voted in favour of the \"Marriage Amendment (Definition and Religious Freedoms) Act 2017\", which legalised same-sex marriage; 65 percent of his constituency voted \"Yes\" in the Australian Marriage Law Postal Survey.\n\nIn March 2017, 31 CEOs signed a letter to Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull calling for a free vote in the Australian Parliament on same-sex marriage. In response to this letter, on 16 March 2017, Dutton said that the CEOs \"shouldn't shove their views down our throats\" and that CEOs who were \"doing the wrong thing\" should \"be publicly shamed\". Dutton repeated\nhis criticism at a speech to the LNP State Council in Queensland on 18\nMarch.\n\nDutton’s comments were heavily criticised as an attempt to censor\nexpressions of support for same-sex marriage, with some commenters\nalso accusing him of hypocrisy given his support for changing\n. Former New South Wales Premier Kristina Keneally said that according to Dutton, \"Free speech is great and should be expanded, unless it’s an Australian corporate CEO speaking about same-sex marriage. Then they need to shut\nup.” Liberal MPs and ministers\nJulie Bishop and Simon Birmingham also expressed disagreement with\nDutton’s comments.\n\nOn 9 May 2017, a 67-year-old man pushed a pie into the face of Qantas CEO Alan Joyce while Joyce was speaking at a function in Perth. The next day, the assailant confirmed that the attack was to protest against Joyce's support for same-sex marriage. Dutton had singled out Joyce in his criticism of pro-same-sex marriage CEOs, leading some LGBTI advocates to hold him partially responsible for the attack. Dutton condemned the attack on Twitter.\n\nDutton, who owns six properties with his wife, including a shopping centre in Townsville, opposes any changes to negative gearing which currently offers tax breaks to property investors, stating that changing it would harm the economy.\n\nDutton has been accused of supporting and promoting the white genocide conspiracy theory. In 2018, he declared that Boers required refugee status in Australia because of \"the horrific circumstances they face\" in South Africa. BBC News reported that the Suidlanders group's \"message of white genocide\" had \"resonated\" with Dutton, prompting him to offer fast-track visas to white South African farmers due to their being \"persecuted\", claiming they needed help from a \"civilised\" country.\n\nDutton married his first wife when he was 22 years of age; however, the marriage ended after a few months. His eldest child, a daughter, was born in 2002 and splits time between her parents in a shared parenting arrangement. In 2003 Dutton married his second wife, Kirilly (), with whom he has two sons.\n\n"}
{"id": "7963719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7963719", "title": "Polymorphous perversity", "text": "Polymorphous perversity\n\nPolymorphous perversity is a psychoanalytic concept proposing the ability to gain sexual gratification outside socially normative sexual behaviors. Sigmund Freud used this term to describe the sexual disposition from infancy to about age five.\n\nFreud theorized that some are born with unfocused pleasure / libidinal drives, deriving pleasure from any part of the body. The objects and modes of pleasurable satisfaction are multifarious, directed at every object that might provide pleasure. Polymorphous perverse sexuality continues from infancy through about age five, progressing through three distinct developmental stages: the oral stage, anal stage, and genital / phallic stage. Only in subsequent developmental stages do children learn to constrain drives towards pleasure-satisfaction to socially accepted norms, culminating in adult heterosexual behavior focused on the genitals and reproduction or sublimations of the procreative drive.\n\nFreud taught that during this stage of undifferentiated impulse for pleasure, incestuous and bisexual urges are normal. Lacking knowledge that certain modes of gratification are forbidden, the polymorphously perverse child seeks gratification wherever it occurs. In the earliest phase, the oral phase, the child forms a libidinal bond with the mother via the inherent pleasure gained from suckling at the breast.\n\nFor Freud, \"perversion\" is a non-judgmental term. He used it to designate behavior outside the socially acceptable norms of his era.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29451855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29451855", "title": "Primary goods", "text": "Primary goods\n\nPrimary goods are presented in the important book \"A Theory of Justice\" (1971) written by the American philosopher John Rawls.\nIn the first edition of the \"Theory of Justice\", these goods are supposed to be desirable for every human being, just as they are also useful for them. Thus, primary goods are the common base for the unanimous selection of the justice principle in the original position.\n\nPrimary goods are subdivided in two categories:\n\nIn the second edition of the \"Theory of Justice\", primary goods are stated to be those that the citizens need as free people and as members of the society.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21312306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21312306", "title": "Priming (psychology)", "text": "Priming (psychology)\n\nPriming is a technique whereby exposure to one stimulus influences a response to a subsequent stimulus, without conscious guidance or intention. For example, the word NURSE is recognized more quickly following the word DOCTOR than following the word BREAD. Priming can be perceptual, semantic, or conceptual. Research, however, has yet to firmly establish the duration (a day? a week?) of priming effects, yet their onset can be almost instantaneous.\n\nPriming works best when the two stimuli are in the same modality. For example, visual priming works best with visual cues and verbal priming works best with verbal cues. But priming also occurs between modalities, or between semantically related words such as \"doctor\" and \"nurse\".\n\nThe terms \"positive\" and \"negative\" priming refer to when priming affects the speed of processing. A positive prime speeds up processing, while a negative prime lowers the speed to slower than un-primed levels. Positive priming is caused by simply experiencing the stimulus, while negative priming is caused by experiencing the stimulus, and then ignoring it. Positive priming effects happen even if the prime is not consciously seen. The effects of positive and negative priming are visible in event-related potential (ERP) readings.\n\nPositive priming is thought to be caused by spreading activation. This means that the first stimulus activates parts of a particular representation or association in memory just before carrying out an action or task. The representation is already partially activated when the second stimulus is encountered, so less additional activation is needed for one to become consciously aware of it.\n\nNegative priming is more difficult to explain. Many models have been hypothesized, but currently the most widely accepted are the distractor inhibition and episodic retrieval models. In the distractor inhibition model, the activation of ignored stimuli is inhibited by the brain. The episodic retrieval model hypothesizes that ignored items are flagged 'do-not-respond' by the brain. Later, when the brain acts to retrieve this information, the tag causes a conflict. The time taken to resolve this conflict causes negative priming. Although both models are still valid, recent scientific research has led scientists to lean away from the distractor inhibitor model.\n\nThe difference between \"perceptual\" and \"conceptual\" primes is whether items with a similar \"form\" or items with a similar \"meaning\" are primed, respectively.\n\nPerceptual priming is based on the form of the stimulus and is enhanced by the match between the early and later stimuli. Perceptual priming is sensitive to the modality and exact format of the stimulus. An example of perceptual priming is the identification of an incomplete word in a word-stem completion test. The presentation of the visual prime does not have to be perfectly consistent with later testing presentations in order to work. Studies have shown that, for example, the absolute size of the stimuli can vary and still provide significant evidence of priming.\n\nConceptual priming is based on the meaning of a stimulus and is enhanced by semantic tasks. For example, \"table\", will show priming effects on \"chair\", because \"table\" and \"chair\" belong to the same category.\n\n\"Repetition priming\", also called \"direct priming\", is a form of positive priming. When a stimulus is experienced, it is also primed. This means that later experiences of the stimulus will be processed more quickly by the brain. This effect has been found on words in the lexical decision task.\n\nIn \"semantic priming\", the prime and the target are from the same semantic category and share features. For example, the word \"dog\" is a semantic prime for \"wolf\", because the two are similar animals. Semantic priming is theorized to work because of spreading activation within associative networks. When a person thinks of one item in a category, similar items are stimulated by the brain. Even if they are not words, morphemes can prime for complete words that include them. An example of this would be that the morpheme 'psych' can prime for the word 'psychology'.\n\nIn support with further detail, when an individual processes a word sometimes that word can be affected when the prior word is linked semantically. Previous studies have been conducted, focusing on priming effects having a rapid rise time and a hasty decay time. For example, an experiment by Donald Frost researched the decay time of semantic facilitation in lists and sentences. Three experiments were conducted and it was found that semantic relationships within words differs when words occur in sentences rather than lists. Thus, supporting the ongoing discourse model.\n\nIn \"associative priming\", the target is a word that has a high probability of appearing with the prime, and is \"associated\" with it but not necessarily related in semantic features. \"dog\" is an associative prime for \"cat\", since the words are closely associated and frequently appear together (in phrases like \"raining cats and dogs\"). A similar effect is known as \"context priming\". Context priming works by using a context to speed up processing for stimuli that are likely to occur in that context. A useful application of this effect is reading written text. The grammar and vocabulary of the sentence provide contextual clues for words that will occur later in the sentence. These later words are processed more quickly than if they had been read alone, and the effect is greater for more difficult or uncommon words.\n\nIn the psychology of visual perception and motor control, the term \"response priming\" denotes a special form of visuomotor priming effect. The distinctive feature of response priming is that prime and target are presented in quick succession (typically, less than 100 milliseconds apart) and are coupled to identical or alternative motor responses. When a speeded motor response is performed to classify the target stimulus, a prime immediately preceding the target can thus induce response conflicts when assigned to a different response as the target. These response conflicts have observable effects on motor behavior, leading to priming effects, e.g., in response times and error rates. A special property of response priming is its independence from visual awareness of the prime: For example, response priming effects can increase under conditions where visual awareness of the prime is decreasing.\n\nThe masked priming paradigm has been widely used in the last two decades in order to investigate both orthographic and phonological activations during visual word recognition.\nThe term \"masked\" refers to the fact that the prime word or pseudoword is masked by symbols such as ###### that can be presented in a forward manner (before the prime) or a backward manner (after the prime). These masks enable to diminish the visibility of the prime. The prime is usually presented less than 80 ms (but typically between 40-60 ms) in this paradigm.\nIn all, the short SOA (Stimuli Onset Asynchrony, i.e. the time delay between the onset of the mask and the prime) associated with the masking make the masked priming paradigm a good tool to investigate automatic and irrepressive activations during visual word recognition. Forster has argued that masked priming is a purer form of priming, as any conscious appreciation of the relationship between the prime and the target is effectively eliminated, and thus removes the subject's ability to use the prime strategically to make decisions. Results from numerous experiments show that certain forms of priming occur that are very difficult to occur with visible primes. One such example is form-priming, where the prime is similar to, but not identical to the target (e.g., \"nature\"-\"mature\").\n\nKindness priming is a specific form of priming that occurs when a subject experiences an act of kindness and subsequently experiences a lower threshold of activation when subsequently encountering positive stimuli. A unique feature of kindness priming is that it causes a temporarily increased resistance to negative stimuli in addition to the increased activation of positive associative networks.\n\nPriming effects can be found with many of the tests of implicit memory. Tests such as the word-stem completion task, and the word fragment completion task measure perceptual priming. In the word-stem completion task, participants are given a list of study words, and then asked to complete word \"stems\" consisting of 3 letters with the first word that comes to mind. A priming effect is observed when participants complete stems with words on the study list more often than with novel words. The word fragment completion task is similar, but instead of being given the stem of a word, participants are given a word with some letters missing. The lexical decision task can be used to demonstrate conceptual priming. In this task, participants are asked to determine if a given string is a word or a nonword. Priming is demonstrated when participants are quicker to respond to words that have been primed with semantically-related words, e.g., faster to confirm \"nurse\" as a word when it is preceded by \"doctor\" than when it is preceded by \"butter\". Other evidence has been found through brain imaging and studies from brain injured patients. Another example of priming in healthcare research was studying if safety behaviors of nurses could be primed by structuring change of shift report. A pilot simulation study found that there is early evidence to show that safety behaviors can be primed by including safety language into report.\n\nAmnesic patients are described as those who have suffered damage to their medial temporal lobe, resulting in the impairment of explicit recollection of everyday facts and events. Priming studies on amnesic patients have varying results, depending on both the type of priming test done, as well as the phrasing of the instructions.\n\nAmnesic patients do as well on \"perceptual priming\" tasks as healthy patients, however they show some difficulties completing \"conceptual priming\" tasks, depending on the specific test. For example, they perform normally on category instance production tasks, but show impaired priming on any task that involves answering general knowledge questions.\n\nPhrasing of the instructions associated with the test has had a dramatic impact on an amnesic's ability to complete the task successfully. When performing a word-stem completion test, patients were able to successfully complete the task when asked to complete the stem using the first word that came to mind, but when explicitly asked to recall a word to complete the stem that was on the study list, patients performed at below-average levels.\n\nOverall, studies from amnesic patients indicate that priming is controlled by a brain system separate from the medial temporal system that supports explicit memory.\n\nPerhaps the first use of semantic priming in neurological patients was with stroke patients with aphasia. In one study, patients with Wernicke's aphasia who were unable to make semantic judgments showed evidence of semantic priming, while patient with Broca's aphasia who were able to make semantic judgments showed less consistent priming than Wernicke's aphasics or normal controls (Milberg and Blumstein 1981). This dissociation was extended to other linguistic categories such phonology and syntactic processing by Blumstein, Milberg and their colleagues.\n\nPatients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), the most common form of dementia, have been studied extensively as far as priming goes. Results are conflicting in some cases, but overall, AD patients show \"decreased\" priming effects on word-stem completion and free association tasks, while retaining normal performance on lexical decision tasks. These results suggest that AD patients are impaired in any sort of priming task that requires semantic processing of the stimuli, while priming tasks that require visuoperceptual interpretation of stimuli are unaffected by Alzheimers.\n\nPatient J.P., who suffered a stroke in the left medial/temporal gyrus, resulting in auditory verbal agnosia – the inability to comprehend spoken words, but maintaining the ability to read and write, and with no effects to hearing ability. J.P. showed normal perceptual priming, but his conceptual priming ability for spoken words was, expectedly, impaired. Another patient, N.G., who suffered from prosopanomia (the inability to retrieve proper names) following damage to his left temporal lobe, was unable to spontaneously provide names of persons or cities, but was able to successfully complete a word-fragment completion exercise following priming with these names. This demonstrated intact perceptual priming abilities.\n\nPriming while improving performance decreases neural processing in the cerebral cortex of sensory stimuli with stimulus repetition. This has been found in single-cell recordings and in electroencephalography (EEG) upon gamma waves, with PET and functional MRI. This reduction is due to representational sharpening in the early sensory areas which reduces the number of neurons representing the stimulus. This leads to a more selective activation of neurons representing objects in higher cognitive areas.\n\nConceptual priming has been linked to reduced blood flow in the left prefrontal cortex. The left prefrontal cortex is believed to be involved in the semantic processing of words, among other tasks.\n\nThe view that perceptual priming is controlled by the extrastriate cortex while conceptual priming is controlled by the left prefrontal cortex is undoubtedly an oversimplified view of the process, and current work is focused on elucidating the brain regions involved in priming in more detail.\n\nPriming is thought to play a large part in the systems of stereotyping.\n\nThis can occur even if the subject is not conscious of the priming stimulus. An example of this was done by Bargh et al. in 1996. Subjects were implicitly primed with words related to the stereotype of elderly people (example: Florida, forgetful, wrinkle). While the words did not explicitly mention speed or slowness, those who were primed with these words walked more slowly upon exiting the testing booth than those who were primed with neutral stimuli. Similar effects were found with rude and polite stimuli: those primed with rude words were more likely to interrupt an investigator than those primed with neutral words, and those primed with polite words were the least likely to interrupt. A Yale study showed that something as simple as holding a hot or cold beverage before an interview could result in pleasant or negative opinion of the interviewer. However, there has been a serious lack of replication (see below).\n\nThese findings have been extended to therapeutic interventions. For example, Cox et al. (2012) suggest that presented with a depressed patient who \"self-stereotypes herself as incompetent, a therapist can find ways to prime her with specific situations in which she had been competent in the past... Making memories of her competence more salient should reduce her self-stereotype of incompetence.\"\n\nThe replicability and interpretation of goal-priming findings has become controversial. Recent studies have failed to replicate findings, including age priming, with additional reports of failure to replicate this and other findings such as social-distance also reported.\n\nPriming is often considered to play a part in the success of sensory branding of products and connected to ideas like crossmodal correspondencies and sensation transference. Known effects are e.g. consumers perceiving lemonade suddenly as sweeter when the logo of the drink is more saturated towards yellow.\n\nAlthough semantic, associative, and form priming are well established, some longer-term priming effects were not replicated in further studies, casting doubt on their effectiveness or even existence. Nobel laureate and psychologist Daniel Kahneman has called on priming researchers to check the robustness of their findings in an open letter to the community, claiming that priming has become a \"poster child for doubts about the integrity of psychological research.\" Other critics have asserted that priming studies suffer from major publication bias, experimenter effect and that criticism of the field is not dealt with constructively.\n\n"}
{"id": "2466490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2466490", "title": "Relational aggression", "text": "Relational aggression\n\nRelational aggression or alternative aggression is a type of aggression in which harm is caused by damaging someone's relationships or social status. Although it can be used in many contexts and among different age groups, relational aggression among adolescents in particular, has received a lot of attention. \n\nThe attention relational aggression has received has been augmented by the help of popular media, including movies like \"Mean Girls\" and books like \"Odd Girl Out\" by R. Simmons (2003), Nesthäkchen and the World War by Else Ury (1916), and \"Queen Bees and Wannabes\" by R. Wiseman (2003). Relational aggression can have various lifelong consequences. Relational aggression has been primarily observed and studied among girls, following pioneering research by psychologist Nicki R. Crick.\n\nA person's peers become increasingly significant in adolescence and are especially important for adolescents' healthy psychological development. Peers provide many new behavioral models and feedback that are essential for successful identity formation and for the development of one's sense of self. Interactions with peers encourage positive practice of autonomy and independent decision-making skills. They are also essential for healthy sexual development including the development of the capacity for intimate friendships and learning appropriate sexual behavior. Peer relationships are also very important for determining how much adolescents value school, how much effort they put into it, and how well they perform in class.\nHowever, quite frequently adolescents take part in peer relationships that are harmful for their psychological development. Adolescents tend to form various cliques and belong to different crowds based on their activity interests, music and clothing preferences, as well as their cultural or ethnic background. Such groups differ in their sociometric or popularity status, which often create unhealthy, aggression-victimization based dynamics between groups. Different forms of aggression can also be used to control dynamics and sociometric status within a group. Sometimes aggression is directed to an individual rather than to any apparent social group. Primary reasons for victimization include looks and speech; adolescents are also frequently bullied because of a disability, particular ethnicity, or religion.\n\nRelational aggression is defined as a type of aggression that is \"intended to harm others through deliberate manipulation of their social standing and relationships\". Relational aggression, according to Daniel Olweus is a type of bullying. Bullying in general, is defined as physically or psychologically violent re-occurring and not provoked acts, where the bully and victim have unequal physical strength or/and psychological power. These key conditions apply to all types of bullying: verbal, physical, relational.\n\nRelational aggression may be either covert or direct, and is distinct from other forms of indirect aggression.\nIt can be proactive (planned and goal-oriented) or reactive (in response to perceived threats, hostility, or anger), and it can be, for instance, peer-directed or romantic.\nSeveral studies have indicated substantive differences between proactive and reactive relational aggression. Reactive aggression is associated with a tendency to assume that others' intentions are hostile (hostile attribution bias).\n\nMost studies of relational aggression have involved children or adolescents; the study of relational aggression in adults presents problems. Relational aggression is a common aspect of workplace bullying, and is a characteristic behaviour of psychopaths in the workplace, so it is commonplace amongst adults as well as children.\n\nManifestations of relational aggression include:\n\nPsychological manipulation and coercion can also be considered as a type of relational aggression.\n\nMost recent research has been focusing on cyber-bullying, which is a relatively new yet increasingly popular way of engaging in both verbal and relational aggression due to growing importance of various communication and technology devices in modern societies. Some studies show that internet meanness is more common among girls than boys.\n\nMany studies in the U.S. and Europe show that at least 30% of students report having been bullied in one or another way. Some studies indicate even higher percentages of victimization. Bullying in schools happens in all forms and at various ages, although peer bullying has the highest prevalence in 6th-8th grades. The most common forms of bullying are verbal with relational, or various forms of ostracism, coming in second.\n\nAlthough it can be used by both genders, relational aggression is more commonly associated with girls. Findings of a study by Rivers and Smith have shown that while verbal aggression occurs with similar frequency in both sexes, direct physical aggression is more common among boys and indirect aggression is more common among girls. In another study by Baldry it was found that boys are more likely to engage in bullying behaviors such as threats, physical harm, rejection, and name-calling, while girls are most likely to use name-calling, teasing, rumors, rejection, and taking personal belongings. Based on these findings, girls do seem to use relational aggression more than boys.\n\nIn addition, recent international research shows that both genders tend to use relational aggression, but girls are more aware and distressed by it. For example, a study by Horn found that girls are more likely to say that it is morally wrong to exclude someone based on their crowd membership.\n\nSome research shows that there are certain implications when boys and girls engage in gender-atypical aggression, as girls who are more physically aggressive or boys who are highly relationally aggressive are more maladjusted than their peers.\n\nSociometric status, commonly referred as popularity, is one of the most significant predictors of victimization or bullying as differences in popularity can be associated with differences in social power. It is commonly believed that aggressive adolescents belong to rejected social groups. However, some research shows that they can be popular among their peers. Rodkin et al. (2000), for example, describes two types of popular boys: \"model\" boys, who are \"physically and academically competent, friendly and neither shy nor aggressive.\" Second type is described as \"tough\" and such adolescents are \"aggressive, physically competent, and average or below average in friendliness, academic competence, and shyness.\". Usually the more popular aggressive adolescents use instrumental aggression and not reactive aggression. Instrumental aggression is defined as behavior that is deliberate and planned while reactive aggression is unplanned and impulsive.\nRelational aggression can be greatly instrumental for maintaining the popularity status of a group among other groups, as well specific relationship and status dynamics inside a group. Ojala and Nesdale (2004) found that both victims and bullies normally come from rejected groups. Bullies chose to bully students, who are members of their social out-groups that are similar to their own in- group as a result of threatened distinctiveness. Hence, the need to maintain a unique social identity and status can be one of the causes to engage in bullying.\nUsing relational aggression to maintain a particular social order inside the group has been mostly observed in girl groups: if some member of the group becomes too popular and this causes imbalance in the group, other members might start rumors about the overly popular girl to diminish her status.\nAmanda Rose (2004) claims that the main purpose of using relational aggression in first place is to enhance or maintain one's social status. Many skills that are needed to be popular are also essential for being \"successful\" at employing relational aggression, e.g. ability to \"read\" people and adjust one's behavior accordingly, etc. The researcher suggests that some aggressive boys are popular because they are also good at using relational aggression, and, therefore, their primary reason for popularity is not their physical but relational aggression.\n\nResearch shows that there are three types of rejected or unpopular adolescents who are very likely to be involved in bullying behavior. First type includes adolescents who are overly aggressive: they tend to get into fights, get involved in antisocial activities, and are often involved in bullying; second type includes adolescents who are withdrawn or timid and exceedingly shy and inhibited and who are more likely to be victims; third- aggressive- withdrawn- type adolescents tend to have trouble controlling their hostility, but they are also very shy and nervous about initiating friendships. The latter are likely to be bully-victims. Other students- bystanders can also choose between several roles: victim-defender, bully-reinforcer and/or assistant, and outsiders.\n\nVictims or the unpopular withdrawn children are excessively anxious, lack social skills needed to initiate new contacts or break into a group activity. Their lack of confidence combined with submissiveness make them perfect targets for bullying. Some of the most common underlying reasons for bullying include low socioeconomic status, disability, and obesity.\nResearch shows that in comparison with other adolescents victims often use worse problem solving strategies. They often score less than their bullies and defenders in the tests of moral competence and theory of mind. Moral competence refers to the ability to carefully consider both the consequences and prior beliefs in determining how morally right or wrong one's actions are. Victims seemed to focus primarily on the outcomes and not being as good in integrating the moral beliefs. They have difficulties in social skills, and social problem solving, as well as emotional regulation. And because of their lack of social competence, victims score low on peer acceptance and popularity. Victims are often overly sensitive to being rejected, which might originate in their relationships with parents.\n\nBullies, despite being quite morally competent, tend to engage in morally wrong behaviors because of several reasons, including a lack of moral compassion. In general, bullies seem to engage in a kind of cold cognition and have a good theory of mind. They also have an average to good social intelligence. These skills seem to be especially important in order to use relational aggression in an instrumental manner—for achieving specific social goals.\nAs mentioned previously, male and female bullies usually score differently on sociometric measures. Male bullies often fall in the socially rejected category while female bullies tend to fall in the controversial category. They can be popular yet not liked.\n\nMany unpopular aggressive kids seem to engage in hostile attributional bias when analyzing the actions of others: they are more likely to interpret other children's behavior as hostile while it is not, which can cause the perpetuation of their aggressive behaviors.\n\nBully- victims are people who have both experienced aggression directed towards them and have themselves engaged in bullying. They often choose to be bully assistants or reinforcers. Seeing others victimized can serve as a buffer against some psychological problems, for which these people are at risk (see Consequences of victimization below). In comparison to all other groups, bully-victims are the worst off regarding their psychological adjustment and problems. They are least liked among the peers.\n\nAlthough early research has mostly focused on victims and bullies, currently more and more attention has been given to the roles of other students, or bystanders: bully-reinforcer's and assistants, victim-defenders, and outsiders.\n\nBully-reinforcers and assistants do not normally initiate aggressive actions themselves, but they support, reinforce, and/or assist the bully. They often have rather large friendship networks when compared to outsiders, victims, and their defenders. These individuals are similar to bullies in regards of their personal characteristics. Female bully- reinforcers and assistants usually score low on social acceptance and high on rejection by their peers while male bully assistants have average scores on both and bully- reinforcers are often quite popular among their peers. The characteristic that is common among all these individuals across both genders is low level of empathy.\n\nVictim-defenders are individuals who stand up for the victim. They are usually popular among their peers, although occasionally rejected and victimized adolescents take on the defender's role. Defenders like to befriend other defenders and usually belong to the smallest social network of all other previously mentioned groups. Defenders have both advanced moral competence and high level of compassion. They also score high on the theory of mind tests. They are usually very morally engaged, have a high sense of responsibility, and self-efficacy. They are also good at emotion regulation.\n\nOutsiders are adolescents who like to stay away from the conflict situations, participate in spreading rumors, or actively support either side. They usually befriend other outsiders. Both male and female outsiders usually score below average on both social acceptance and rejection by their peers.\nIn general, the best predictor for whether an adolescent will choose to be a defender or an outsider in a particular situation is their relationship to the victim and/or bully. Occasionally, adolescents will feel more comfortable to intervene if they are friends of the offender. However, in general they will take the side of the bully or victim based on who they know better. Bullies are more likely to be friends of other bullies, as well as their reinforcers, and assistants, while victims befriend other victims.\n\nThere are serious negative consequences associated with being involved in any aggressive behaviors. And while problems with peers might be a result of one's poor social skills and maladjustment, difficulty making friends, and regular experience of aggression can also be a cause of many short and long term negative consequences on one's mental health and academic and professional achievements.\nExperience of relational aggression, peer rejection, and unpopularity are shown to be linked to various problems in adolescence, which are listed below:\n\nSome negative effects persist into adulthood. In a longitudinal study, Dan Olweus (2003) found that young adults, who were victims of bullying in adolescence, had more symptoms of depression and lower self-esteem than did their non-victimized peers. Victims are also much more likely to engage in heavy smoking later in life. Decreased academic engagement due to victimization can have some long term consequences as victim's lower educational attainment in adulthood leads to lower earnings.\n\nThere are differences in consequences among the children who are rejected and aggressive, also known as bully-victims, and children who are rejected and withdrawn, also referred to as simply victims. Aggressive individuals often have conduct problems and are involved in antisocial activity.; withdrawn children feel exceedingly lonely, at risk of low self-esteem, depression, and diminished social competence. Adolescents, who are both aggressive and withdrawn, are at greatest risk for various mental and behavioral problems.\n\nAlthough victims respond to bullying in various ways, some of the most common ways include avoidance or escape behaviors, such as not going to school and running away from home. However, in some extreme cases, suicide attempts might occur. Compared to non-victims, victims exhibit increased levels of suicidal ideation. and are more likely to have attempted suicide. Researcher Y.S. Kim (2005) found that there are some gender differences as victimized female but not male students were at significantly greater risk for suicidal ideation.\nFurther research has shown that increased risk for suicidal ideation and attempts depend on a specific interaction between gender, frequency, and type of aggression. Relational or indirect aggression was found to be associated with depression and suicidal ideation among both genders. According to Brustein and Klomek (2007), victimization at any frequency increased the risk of depression, ideation, and attempts among girls, while only frequent victimization increased the risk of depression and ideation among males; yet, Katliala-Heino et al. (1999) found that severe ideation was associated with frequent victimization only among girls.\n\nSome adolescents are more resilient to victimization due to their personal characteristics, but there are some environmental factors such as having a best friend or great family support can decrease the risk for many negative consequences associated with victimization. In addition, research shows that support from teachers can be a significant environmental factor for higher academic achievement and school engagement. It can also increase general well- being in the classroom. Teacher attitudes towards bullying were found to moderate the extent to which victims internalize and feel distressed and express it by avoiding school and similar behavior. Close teacher- student relationship moderates perceived safety in the classroom, and higher perceived safety is directly linked to better classroom concentration and improved coping strategies. Therefore, supportive friends, family, and teachers can be great buffers for victimized students against all negative effects of victimization.\nWitnessing the harassment of others can also reduce some harmful effects of being victimized: victims-only feel more humiliated and angry than victims-witnesses on the same day. Being singled out and picked on feels worse than being one of many victimized students. This explains why in ethnically diverse schools victimized students experience worse psychological outcomes when their ethnic group is in majority, because then they are more likely to attribute it to their personal shortcomings and not to their group membership.\n\nThere are many prevention programs, which have been designed to improve social skills of the unpopular and victimized adolescents. Prevention programs usually focus on one of the three strategies:\nDifferent types of programs have shown to have somewhat different effects: the first type seems to best improve adolescent's ability to get along with others while the second type has shown to improve adolescents' self-conceptions and their acceptance by others. One of the examples of the programs using the third approach is PATHS (Promoting Alternative Thinking Strategies) teaches skills needed for successfully analyzing social situations, controlling one's negative emotions, and making more rational social decisions. It has been shown to successfully reduce behavioral problems among elementary school children.\nHowever, it is difficult to prevent relational aggression from happening as often adolescents who use it are seen to be more popular among their peers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6187740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6187740", "title": "Renewable fuels", "text": "Renewable fuels\n\nRenewable fuels are fuels produced from renewable resources. Examples include: biofuels (e.g. Vegetable oil used as fuel, ethanol, methanol from clean energy and carbon dioxide or biomass, and biodiesel) and Hydrogen fuel (when produced with renewable processes). This is in contrast to non-renewable fuels such as natural gas, LPG (propane), petroleum and other fossil fuels and nuclear energy. Renewable fuels can include fuels that are synthesized from renewable energy sources, such as wind and solar. Renewable fuels have gained in popularity due to their sustainability, low contributions to the carbon cycle, and in some cases lower amounts of greenhouse gases. The geo-political ramifications of these fuels are also of interest, particularly to industrialized economies which desire independence from Middle Eastern oil.\n\nThe International Energy Agency's \"World Energy Outlook 2006\" concludes that rising oil demand, if left unchecked,\nwould accentuate the consuming countries' vulnerability to a severe supply disruption and resulting price shock. Renewable biofuels for transport represent a key source of diversification from petroleum products. Biofuels from grain and beet in temperate regions have a part to play, but they are relatively expensive and their energy efficiency and CO2 savings benefits, are variable. Biofuels from sugar cane and other highly productive tropical crops are much more competitive and beneficial. But all first generation biofuels ultimately compete with food production for land, water, and other resources. Greater efforts are required to develop and commercialize second generation biofuel technologies, such as biorefineries and ligno-cellulosics, enabling the flexible production of biofuels and other products from non-edible plant materials.\n\nHubbert's peak oil theory suggests that petroleum is a finite resource that is rapidly depleting. Of the worldwide total remaining petroleum reserves of approximately (about one half of the original virgin reserves) and a worldwide usage rate of per year, only about 50 years worth of petroleum is predicted to remain at the current depletion rate. Petroleum is imperative for the following industries: fuel (home heating, jet fuel, gasoline, diesel, etc.) transportation, agriculture, pharmaceutical, plastics/resins, man-made fibers, synthetic rubber, and explosives. If the modern world remains reliant on petroleum as a source of energy, the price of crude oil could increase markedly, destabilizing economies worldwide. Consequently, renewable fuel drivers include: high oil prices, imbalance of trade, instability in oil exporting regions of the world, the Energy Policy Act of 2005, the potential for windfall profits for American farmers and industries, avoidance of economic depression, avoidance of scarcity of products due to a volatile ‘peak oil’ scenario expected to begin as early as 2021, (though peak oil is not a new idea) and a slowing of global warming that may usher in unprecedented climate change.\n\nFurthermore, the global debate on climate change, along with regional geopolitical instabilities have challenged nations to act to develop both alternative and carbon-neutral sources of energy. Renewable fuels are therefore becoming attractive to many governments, who are beginning to see sustainable energy independence as a valuable asset.\n\nOn December 19, 2007, President Bush signed into law the Energy Independence and Security Act, establishing a requirement that at least of renewable fuel be used in the marketplace by 2022.\n\nAccording to the International Energy Agency (IEA), cellulosic ethanol commercialization could allow ethanol fuels to play a much larger role in the future than previously thought. Cellulosic ethanol can be made from plant matter composed primarily of inedible cellulose fibers that form the stems and branches of most plants. Dedicated energy crops, such as switchgrass, are also promising cellulose sources that can be produced in many regions of the United States.\n\nBiofuel is a type of fuel whose energy is derived from biological carbon fixation. Biofuels include fuels derived from biomass conversion, as well as solid biomass, liquid fuels and various biogases. Although fossil fuels have their origin in ancient carbon fixation, they are not considered biofuels by the generally accepted definition because they contain carbon that has been \"out\" of the carbon cycle for a very long time. Biofuels are gaining increased public and scientific attention, driven by factors such as oil price spikes, the need for increased energy security, concern over greenhouse gas emissions from fossil fuels, and support from government subsidies.\n\nBioethanol is an alcohol made by fermentation, mostly from carbohydrates produced in sugar or starch crops such as corn or sugar cane. Cellulosic biomass, derived from non-food sources such as trees and grasses, is also being developed as a feedstock for ethanol production. Ethanol can be used as a fuel for vehicles in its pure form, but it is usually used as a gasoline additive to increase octane and improve vehicle emissions. Bioethanol is widely used in the USA and in Brazil. Current plant design does not provide for converting the lignin portion of plant raw materials to fuel components by fermentation.\n\nBiodiesel is made from vegetable oils and animal fats. Biodiesel can be used as a fuel for vehicles in its pure form, but it is usually used as a diesel additive to reduce levels of particulates, carbon monoxide, and hydrocarbons from diesel-powered vehicles. Biodiesel is produced from oils or fats using transesterification and is the most common biofuel in Europe.\n\nIn 2010 worldwide biofuel production reached 105 billion liters (28 billion gallons US), up 17% from 2009, and biofuels provided 2.7% of the world's fuels for road transport, a contribution largely made up of ethanol and biodiesel. Global ethanol fuel production reached 86 billion liters (23 billion gallons US) in 2010, with the United States and Brazil as the world's top producers, accounting together for 90% of global production. The world's largest biodiesel producer is the European Union, accounting for 53% of all biodiesel production in 2010. As of 2011, mandates for blending biofuels exist in 31 countries at the national level and in 29 states/provinces. According to the International Energy Agency, biofuels have the potential to meet more than a quarter of world demand for transportation fuels by 2050.\n\nPyrolysis oil is another type of fuel derived from the lignocellulosic fraction of biomass. By rapidly heating biomass in the absence of oxygen (pyrolysis), a liquid crude can be formed that can be further processed into a usable bio-oil. As opposed to other biofuels, pyrolysis oils use the non-edible fraction of biomass and can occur on the order of milliseconds and without the need for large fermentation reactors.\n\nHydrogen fuel refers to the use of hydrogen gas (H) as an energy carrier. Broadly speaking, the production of renewable hydrogen fuel can be divided into two general categories: biologically derived production, and chemical production. This is an area of current research, and new developments and technologies are causing this field to evolve rapidly.\n\nThe biological production of hydrogen fuel has been a topic of research since at least the 1970s. Hydrogen gas can be produced from biomass sources like agricultural and forest residues, consumer waste and other specific agricultural crops. Specifically, hydrogen fuel is produced by a process called gasification, where biomass is processed into a combustible gas and then burned, or by pyrolysis, a related process which can lead to hydrogen gas suitable for fuel-cell applications. One continuing subject of research regards the production of unwanted co-products in both of these processes. The presence of other contaminant gases often depend on specific composition of the biomass source, which can be difficult to control. Another source for biological production of hydrogen fuel is algae. In the late 1990s it was discovered that if algae are deprived of sulfur they will switch from the production of oxygen, as in normal photosynthesis, to the production of hydrogen. Experimental algae farms are attempting to make algae an economically feasible energy source.\n\nThere are also several physico-chemical methods for producing hydrogen; most of these methods require electrolysis of water. When this process draws its power from renewable energy sources like wind turbines or photovoltaic cells, the production requires little consumption of non-renewable resources. Hydrogen fuel, when produced by renewable sources of energy like wind or solar power, is a renewable fuel.\n\nPEF is a partial replacement for fossil fuels in cement kilns. It has significant calorific value and can be used as a fuel substitute for coal and gas in high-combustion facilities. PEF facilities typically divert waste from landfill, reducing demand for non-renewable coal and reducing waste to landfill.\n\n"}
{"id": "39402121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39402121", "title": "SAMPL", "text": "SAMPL\n\nSAMPL, which stands for \"Stochastic AMPL\", is an algebraic modeling language resulting by expanding the well-known language AMPL with extended syntax and keywords. It is designed specifically for representing stochastic programming problems and, through recent extensions, problems with chance constraints, integrated chance constraints and robust optimization problems. \nIt can generate the deterministic equivalent version of the instances, using all the solvers AMPL connects to, or generate an SMPS representation and use specialized decomposition based solvers, like FortSP.\n\nSAMPL shares all language features with AMPL, and adds some constructs specifically designed for expressing scenario based stochastic programming and robust optimization.\n\nTo express scenario-based SP problems, additional constructs describe the tree structure and group the decision variable into stages. Moreover, it is possible to specify which parameter stores the probabilities for each branch of the tree and which set represents the scenario set. Other constructs to easily define chance constraints and integrated chance constraint in an SP problem are available as well.\nUsing these language constructs allows to retain the structure of the problem, hence making it available to the solvers, which might exploit it using specialized decomposition methods like Benders' decomposition to speed-up the solution.\n\nSAMPL supports constructs to describe three types of robust optimization formulations:\n\nSAMPL is currently available as a part of the software AMPLDev (distributed by www.optirisk-systems.com). It supports many popular 32- and 64-bit platforms including Windows, Linux and Mac OS X. A free evaluation version with limited functionality is available.\n\nThe following is the SAMPL version of a simple problem (Dakota), to show the SP related constructs. It does not include the data file, which follows the normal AMPL syntax (see the example provided in the AMPL Wikipedia page for further reference).\n\nSAMPL instance level format for SP problems is SMPS, and therefore the problem can be solved by any solver which supports that standard. One of such solvers (FortSP) is included in the standard SAMPL distribution. Regarding robust optimization problems, the needed solver depend on the specific formulation used, as Ben-Tal and Nemirovski formulation need a second-order cone capable solver.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23401166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23401166", "title": "Satisfiability", "text": "Satisfiability\n\nIn mathematical logic, satisfiability and validity are elementary concepts of semantics. A formula is \"satisfiable\" if it is possible to find an interpretation (model) that makes the formula true. A formula is \"valid\" if all interpretations make the formula true. The opposites of these concepts are unsatisfiability and invalidity, that is, a formula is \"unsatisfiable\" if none of the interpretations make the formula true, and \"invalid\" if some such interpretation makes the formula false. These four concepts are related to each other in a manner exactly analogous to Aristotle's square of opposition.\n\nThe four concepts can be raised to apply to whole theories: a theory is satisfiable (valid) if one (all) of the interpretations make(s) each of the axioms of the theory true, and a theory is unsatisfiable (invalid) if all (one) of the interpretations make(s) each of the axioms of the theory false.\n\nIt is also possible to consider only interpretations that make all of the axioms of a second theory true. This generalization is commonly called satisfiability modulo theories.\n\nThe question whether a sentence in propositional logic is satisfiable is a decidable problem. In general, the question whether sentences in first-order logic are satisfiable is not decidable. In universal algebra and equational theory, the methods of term rewriting, congruence closure and unification are used to attempt to decide satisfiability. Whether a particular theory is decidable or not depends whether the theory is variable-free or on other conditions.\n\nFor classical logics, it is generally possible to reexpress the question of the validity of a formula to one involving satisfiability, because of the relationships between the concepts expressed in the above square of opposition. In particular φ is valid if and only if ¬φ is unsatisfiable, which is to say it is not true that ¬φ is satisfiable. Put another way, φ is satisfiable if and only if ¬φ is invalid.\n\nFor logics without negation, such as the positive propositional calculus, the questions of validity and satisfiability may be unrelated. In the case of the positive propositional calculus, the satisfiability problem is trivial, as every formula is satisfiable, while the validity problem is co-NP complete.\n\nIn the case of classical propositional logic, satisfiability is decidable for propositional formulae. In particular, satisfiability is an NP-complete problem, and is one of the most intensively studied problems in computational complexity theory.\n\nSatisfiability is undecidable and indeed it isn't even a semidecidable property of formulae in first-order logic (FOL). This fact has to do with the undecidability of the validity problem for FOL. The question of the status of the validity problem was posed firstly by David Hilbert, as the so-called Entscheidungsproblem. The universal validity of a formula is a semi-decidable problem. If satisfiability were also a semi-decidable problem, then the problem of the existence of counter-models would be too (a formula has counter-models iff its negation is satisfiable). So the problem of logical validity would be decidable, which contradicts the Church-Turing theorem, a result stating the negative answer for the Entscheidungsproblem.\n\nIn model theory, an atomic formula is satisfiable if there is a collection of elements of a structure that render the formula true. If \"A\" is a structure, φ is a formula, and \"a\" is a collection of elements, taken from the structure, that satisfy φ, then it is commonly written that\n\nIf φ has no variables, that is, if φ is an atomic sentence, and it is satisfied by \"A\", then one writes\n\nIn this case, one may also say that \"A\" is a model for φ, or that φ is \"true\" in \"A\". If \"T\" is a collection of atomic sentences (a theory) satisfied by \"A\", one writes\n\nA problem related to satisfiability is that of finite satisfiability, which is the question of determining whether a formula admits a \"finite\" model that makes it true. For a logic that has the finite model property, the problems of satisfiability and finite satisfiability coincide, as a formula of that logic has a model if and only if it has a finite model. This question is important in the mathematical field of finite model theory.\n\nNevertheless, finite satisfiability and satisfiability need not coincide in general. For instance, consider the first-order logic formula obtained as the conjunction of the following sentences, where formula_1 and formula_2 are constants:\n\n\nThe resulting formula has the infinite model formula_7, but it can be shown that it has no finite model (starting at the fact formula_8 and following the chain of formula_9 atoms that must exist by the third axiom, the finiteness of a model would require the existence of a loop, which would violate the fourth axiom, whether it loops back on formula_10 or on a different element).\n\nThe computational complexity of deciding satisfiability for an input formula in a given logic may differ from that of deciding finite satisfiability; in fact, for some logics, only one of them is decidable.\n\nNumerical constraints often appear in the field of mathematical optimization, where one usually wants to maximize (or minimize) an objective function subject to some constraints. However, leaving aside the objective function, the basic issue of simply deciding whether the constraints are satisfiable can be challenging or undecidable in some settings. The following table summarizes the main cases.\n\n\"Table source: Bockmayr and Weispfenning\".\n\nFor linear constraints, a fuller picture is provided by the following table.\n\n\"Table source: Bockmayr and Weispfenning\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "237526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=237526", "title": "Satori", "text": "Satori\n\nIn the Zen Buddhist tradition, \"satori\" refers to the experience of \"kenshō\", \"seeing into one's true nature\". \"Ken\" means \"seeing,\" \"shō\" means \"nature\" or \"essence\".\n\n\"Satori\" and \"kenshō\" are commonly translated as enlightenment, a word that is also used to translate bodhi, prajna and buddhahood.\n\nD. T. Suzuki, a Japanese author of books and essays on Buddhism, Zen and Shin that were influential in the West, described \"... looking into one's nature or the opening of satori\"; and said \"This acquiring of a new point of view in our dealings with life and the world is popularly called by Japanese Zen students 'satori' (\"wu\" in Chinese). It is really another name for Enlightenment (\"\"Annuttara-samyak-sambodhi\"\")\".\n\n\"Satori\" is often used interchangeably with \"kenshō\". \"Kenshō\" refers to the perception of the Buddha-Nature or emptiness. According to some authors, \"kenshō\" is a brief glimpse, while \"satori\" is considered to be a deeper spiritual experience.\n\nDistinct from this first insight, daigo-tettei is used to refer to a \"deep\" or lasting realization of the nature of existence.\n\nAccording to D. T. Suzuki,\n\nThis view is typical of Rinzai, which emphasizes \"satori\". The Sōtō school rejects this emphasis, and instead emphasizes \"silent illumination\" through the practice of zazen.\n\n\"Satori\" is considered a \"first step\" or embarkation toward Buddhahood:\nThe student's mind must be prepared by rigorous study, with the use of koans, and the practice of meditation to concentrate the mind, under the guidance of a teacher. Koans are short anecdotes of verbal exchanges between teachers and students, typically of the Song dynasty, dealing with Buddhist teachings. The Rinzai-school utilizes classic collections of koans such as the Gateless Gate. The Gateless Gate was assembled by the early 13th-century Chinese Zen master Wumen Hui-k'ai (無門慧開).\n\nWumen struggled for six years with koan \"Zhaozhou’s dog\", assigned to him by Yuelin Shiguan (月林師觀; Japanese: Gatsurin Shikan) (1143–1217), before attaining \"kenshō\". After his understanding had been confirmed by Yuelin, Wumen wrote the following enlightenment poem:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9005414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9005414", "title": "Sensemaking", "text": "Sensemaking\n\nSensemaking is the process by which people give meaning to their collective experiences. It is often formally defined as \"the ongoing retrospective development of plausible images that rationalize what people are doing\" (Weick, Sutcliffe, & Obstfeld, 2005, p. 409). The concept was introduced to organizational studies by Karl E. Weick in the 1970s and has affected both theory and practice. The concept was intended to encourage a shift away from the traditional focus of organization theorists on decision-making and towards the processes that constitute the meaning of the decisions that are enacted in behavior.\n\nIn 1966, Daniel Katz and Robert L. Kahn published their highly influential book \"The Social Psychology of Organizations\" (Katz & Kahn, 1966). In 1969, Karl Weick played on this title in his seminal \"The Social Psychology of Organizing\", shifting the focus from organizations as entities to organiz\"ing\" as an activity. It was especially the second edition, published ten years later (Weick, 1979) that established Weick's approach in organization studies.\n\nWeick identified seven properties of sensemaking (Weick, 1995):\n\n\nEach of these seven aspects interact and intertwine as individuals interpret events. Their interpretations become evident through narratives – written and spoken – which convey the sense they have made of events (Currie & Brown, 2003), as well as through diagrammatic reasoning and associated material practices (Huff, 1990; Stigliani & Ravasi, 2012).\n\nThe rise of the sensemaking perspective marks a shift of focus in organization studies from how decisions shape organizations to how meaning drives organizing (Weick, 1993). The aim was to focus attention on the largely cognitive activity of framing experienced situations as meaningful. It is a collaborative process of creating shared awareness and understanding out of different individuals' perspectives and varied interests.\n\nSensemaking scholars are less interested in the intricacies of planning than in the details of action (Weick, 1995, p. 55).\n\nThe sensemaking approach is often used to provide insight into factors that surface as organizations address either uncertain or ambiguous situations (Weick 1988, 1993; Weick et al., 2005). Beginning in the 1980s with an influential re-analysis of the Bhopal disaster, Weick's name has come to be associated with the study of the situated sensemaking that influences the outcomes of disasters (Weick 1993).\n\nA 2014 review of the literature on sensemaking in organizations identified a dozen different categories of sensemaking and a half-dozen sensemaking related concepts (Maitlis & Christianson, 2014). The categories of sensemaking included: constituent-minded, cultural, ecological, environmental, future-oriented, intercultural, interpersonal, market, political, prosocial, prospective, and resourceful. The sensemaking-related concepts included: sensebreaking, sensedemanding, sense-exchanging, sensegiving, sensehiding, and sense specification.\n\nSensemaking is central to the conceptual framework for military network-centric operations (NCO) espoused by the United States Department of Defense (Garstka and Alberts, 2004). In a joint/coalition military environment, sensemaking is complicated by numerous technical, social, organizational, cultural, and operational factors. A central hypothesis of NCO is that the quality of shared sensemaking and collaboration will be better in a \"robustly networked\" force than in a platform-centric force, empowering people to make better decisions. According to NCO theory, there is a mutually-reinforcing relationship among and between individual sensemaking, shared sensemaking, and collaboration.\n\nIn defense applications, sensemaking theorists have primarily focused on how shared awareness and understanding are developed within command and control organizations at the operational level. At the tactical level, individuals monitor and assess their immediate physical environment in order to predict where different elements will be in the next moment. At the operational level, where the situation is far broader, more complex and more uncertain, and evolves over hours and days, the organization must collectively make sense of enemy dispositions, intentions and capabilities, as well as anticipate the (often unintended) effects of own-force actions on a complex system of systems.\n\nSensemaking has been studied in the patient safety literature (Battles, et al. 2006). It has been used as a conceptual framework for identifying and detecting high risk patient situations. For example, Rhodes, et al. (2015) examined sensemaking and the co-production of safety of primary medical care patients. A configurational approach in the form of QCA has been proposed by Sukhov et al. (2018) for studying sensemaking in individual's decisions, in order to explain how different individuals combine together different cues to make sense of and decide on the goodness of ideas.\n\n"}
{"id": "25011536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25011536", "title": "Shyster (expert system)", "text": "Shyster (expert system)\n\nSHYSTER is a legal expert system developed at the Australian National University in Canberra in 1993. It was written as the doctoral dissertation of James Popple under the supervision of Robin Stanton, Roger Clarke, Peter Drahos, and Malcolm Newey. A full technical report of the expert system, and a book further detailing its development and testing have also been published.\n\nSHYSTER emphasises its pragmatic approach, and posits that a legal expert system need not be based upon a complex model of legal reasoning in order to produce useful advice. Although SHYSTER attempts to model the way in which lawyers argue with cases, it does not attempt to model the way in which lawyers decide which cases to use in those arguments. SHYSTER is of a general design, permitting its operation in different legal domains. It was designed to provide advice in areas of case law that have been specified by a legal expert using a bespoke specification language. Its knowledge of the law is acquired, and represented, as information about cases. It produces its advice by examining, and arguing about, the similarities and differences between cases. It derives its name from Shyster: a slang word for someone who acts in a disreputable, unethical, or unscrupulous way, especially in the practice of law and politics.\n\nSHYSTER is a specific example of a general category of legal expert systems, broadly defined as systems that make use of artificial intelligence (AI) techniques to solve legal problems. Legal AI systems can be divided into two categories: legal retrieval systems and legal analysis systems. SHYSTER belongs to the latter category of legal analysis systems. Legal analysis systems can be further subdivided into two categories: judgment machines and legal expert systems. SHYSTER again belongs to the latter category of legal expert systems. A legal expert system, as Popple uses the term, is a system capable of performing at a level expected of a lawyer: “AI systems which merely assist a lawyer in coming to legal conclusions or preparing legal arguments are not here considered to be legal expert systems; a legal expert system must exhibit some legal expertise itself.\"\n\nDesigned to operate in more than one legal domain, and be of specific use to the common law of Australia, SHYSTER accounts for statute law, case law, and the doctrine of precedent in areas of private law. Whilst it accommodates statute law, it is primarily a case-based system, in contradistinction to rule-based systems like MYCIN. More specifically, it was designed in a manner enabling it to be linked with a rule-based system to form a hybrid system. Although case-based reasoning possesses an advantage over rule-based systems by the elimination of complex semantic networks, it suffers from intractable theoretical obstacles: without some further theory it cannot be predicted what features of a case will turn out to be relevant. Users of SHYSTER therefore require some legal expertise.\n\nRichard Susskind argues that “jurisprudence can and ought to supply the models of law and legal reasoning that are required for computerized [sic] implementation in the process of building all expert systems in law.” Popple, however, believes jurisprudence is of limited value to developers of legal expert systems. He posits that a lawyer must have a model of the law (maybe unarticulated) which includes assumptions about the nature of law and legal reasoning, but that model need not rest on basic philosophical foundations. It may be a pragmatic model, developed through experience within the legal system. Many lawyers perform their work with little or no jurisprudential knowledge, and there is no evidence to suggest that they are worse, or better, at their jobs than lawyers well-versed in jurisprudence. The fact that many lawyers have mastered the process of legal reasoning, without having been immersed in jurisprudence, suggests that it may indeed be possible to develop legal expert systems of good quality without jurisprudential insight. As a pragmatic legal expert system SHYSTER is the embodiment of this belief.\n\nA further example of SHYSTER’s pragmatism is its simple knowledge representation structure. This structure was designed to facilitate specification of different areas of case law using a specification language. Areas of case law are specified in terms of the cases and attributes of importance in those areas. SHYSTER weights its attributes and checks for dependence between them. In order to choose cases upon which to construct its opinions, SHYSTER calculates distances between cases and uses these distances to determine which of the leading cases are nearest to the instant case. To this end SHYSTER can be seen to adopt and expand upon nearest neighbor search methods used in pattern recognition. These nearest cases are used to produce an argument (based on similarities and differences between the cases) about the likely outcome in the instant case. This argument relies on the doctrine of precedent; it assumes that the instant case will be decided the same way as was the nearest case. SHYSTER then uses information about these nearest cases to construct a report. The report that SHYSTER generates makes a prediction and justifies that prediction by reference only to cases and their similarities and differences: the calculations that SHYSTER performs in coming to its opinion do not appear in that opinion. Safeguards are employed to warn users if SHYSTER doubts the veracity of its advice.\n\nSHYSTER was tested in four different and disparate areas of case law. Four specifications were written, each representing an area of Australian law: an aspect of the law of trover; the meaning of “authorization [sic]” in Australian copyright law; the categorisation of employment contracts; and the implication of natural justice in administrative decision-making. SHYSTER was evaluated under five headings: its usefulness, its generality, the quality of its advice, its limitations, and possible enhancements that could be made to it. Despite its simple knowledge representation structure, it has shown itself capable of producing good advice, and its simple structure has facilitated the specification of different areas of law.\n\nAppreciating the difficulties encountered by legal expert systems developers in adequately representing legal knowledge can assist in appreciating the shortcomings of digital rights management technologies. Some academics believe future digital rights management systems may become sophisticated enough to permit exceptions to copyright law. To this end SHYSTER's attempt to model “authorization [sic]” in the Copyright Act can be viewed as pioneering work in this field. The term “authorization [sic]” is undefined in the Copyright Act. Consequently, a number of cases have been before the courts seeking answers as to what conduct amounts to authorisation. The main contexts in which the issue has arisen are analogous to permitted exceptions to copyright currently prevented by most digital rights management technologies: “home taping of recorded materials, photocopying in educational institutions and performing works in public”. When applied to one case concerning compact cassettes, SHYSTER successfully agreed that Amstrad did not authorise the infringement.\n\nPopple highlighted the most obvious avenue of future research using SHYSTER as the development of a rule-based system, and the linking together of that rule-based system with the existing case-based system to form a hybrid system. This intention was eventually realised by Thomas O’Callaghan, the creator of SHYSTER-MYCIN: a hybrid legal expert system first presented at ICAIL '03, 24–28 June 2003 in Edinburgh, Scotland.\n\nMYCIN is an existing medical expert system, which was adapted for use with SHYSTER. MYCIN’s controversial “certainty factor” is not used in SHYSTER-MYCIN. The reason for this is the difficulty in scientifically establishing how certain a fact is in a legal domain. The rule-based approach of the MYCIN part is used to reason with the provisions of an Act of Parliament only. This hybrid system enables the case-based system (SHYSTER) to determine open textured concepts when required by the rule-based system (MYCIN). The ultimate conclusion of this joint endeavour is that a hybrid approach is preferred in the creation of legal expert systems where “it is appropriate to use rule-based reasoning when dealing with statutes, and…case-based reasoning when dealing with cases”.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13810909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13810909", "title": "Southeastern Iberian script", "text": "Southeastern Iberian script\n\nThe southeastern Iberian script, also known as Meridional Iberian, was one of the means of written expression of the Iberian language, which was written mainly in the northeastern Iberian script and residually by the Greco-Iberian alphabet. About the relation between northeastern Iberian and southeastern Iberian scripts, it is necessary to point out that they are two different scripts with different values for the same signs; however it is clear that they had a common origin and the most accepted hypothesis is that northeastern Iberian script derives from southeastern Iberian script. In fact, the southeastern Iberian script is very similar, both considering the shape of the signs or their values, to the Southwestern script used to represent an unknown language usually named Tartessian. The main difference is that southeastern Iberian script does not show the vocalic redundancy of the syllabic signs. Unlike the northeastern Iberian script the decipherment of the southeastern Iberian script is not yet complete, because there are a significant number of signs on which scholars have not yet reached a consensus. Although it is believed that the southeastern Iberian script does not show any system to differentiate between voiced and unvoiced occlusives, unlike the northeastern Iberian script, a recent paper (Ferrer i Jané 2010) defends the existence of a dual system also in the southeastern Iberian script.\n\nAll the paleohispanic scripts, with the exception of the Greco-Iberian alphabet, share a common distinctive typological characteristic: they represent syllabic value for the occlusives, and monophonemic value for the rest of the consonants and vowels. From the writing systems point of view they are neither alphabets nor syllabaries; rather, they are mixed scripts that normally are identified as semi-syllabaries. There is no agreement about how the paleohispanic semi-syllabaries originated; some researchers conclude that their origin is linked only to the Phoenician alphabet, while others believe the Greek alphabet exercised some influence.\n\nThe inscriptions that use the southeastern Iberian script had been found mainly in the southeastern quadrant of the Iberian Peninsula: eastern Andalusia, Murcia, Albacete, Alicante, and Valencia. The southeastern Iberian inscriptions were made on different object types (silver and bronze coins, silver and ceramic recipients, lead plaques, stones, etc.), but they number around 50 and represent more or less only 2% of the total found. Between them there are the lead plaque from Gador (Almeria) and the lead plaque from La Bastida de les Alcuses (Moixent, València). The inscriptions that use this script almost always use the right to left direction of writing. The oldest inscriptions in southeastern Iberian script date to the 4th century BCE, and the modern ones date from the end of the 2nd century BCE.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32650732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32650732", "title": "Straight pride", "text": "Straight pride\n\nStraight pride is a slogan that arose in the late 1980s and early 1990s and has been used primarily by social conservative groups as a political stance and strategy. The term is described as a response to gay pride adopted by various LGBT groups in the early 1970s or to the accommodations provided to gay pride initiatives.\n\nStraight pride backlash incidents have generated controversy and media attention. School policies and court decisions regarding freedom of expression have drawn particular attention, spotlighting individuals protesting school expressions against harassment of LGBT adolescents.\n\nThe concept of LGBT pride originates as a movement which seeks to challenge the negative images of LGBT people by being openly identified with a culturally stigmatized group; as such, it creates a discomfort.\n\nIn this context, the terms \"straight pride\" and \"heterosexual pride\" exist as an argument criticizing gay pride as unnecessary, stating by contrast with heterosexuality that heterosexuals \"don't talk about straight pride\", don't have \"straight pride rallies\", and would be seen as ridiculous if they were to \"band together and have a heterosexual pride [...] parade\".\n\nThis \"appeal to ridicule\" argument expresses the idea that showing pride for a homosexual orientation is equally absurd. Analysts of LGBT rights state as a counter-argument that mainstream culture offers many approved social venues (weddings, baptism, family reunions...) for heterosexuals to express and celebrate their sexual orientation in public, while homosexuals usually feel isolated and pride parades offer them support and an opportunity for socializing.\n\n\"Heterosexual pride\" parades exist as a response to societal acceptance of LGBT visibility, and originated in campuses in the 1990s as a backlash tactic.\n\nIncidents where the slogan or concept of \"Straight pride\" caused controversy have occurred since the late 1980s. In 1988, for example, Vermont Republican John Burger asked the state's Governor to establish a \"Straight Pride Day\". In 1990, rallies in support of Straight Pride were held at the University of Massachusetts Amherst (organized by the group Young Americans for Freedom) and nearby Mount Holyoke College. In 1991, conservative organizations at University of Massachusetts Amherst organized a \"Straight Pride\" rally attended by about 50 people and protested by a crowd estimated to be ten times larger.\n\nEvents which draw media attention are \"Straight pride parades\" or \"Straight Pride days\", often organized in response to similar events organized by gay groups. Other events, typically occurring in United States high schools where First Amendment concerns arise, have revolved around people desiring to wear \"Straight Pride\" t-shirts.\n\nAt a 2010 Tea Party Express rally in Lansing, the state capital of Michigan, a vendor was selling T-shirts printed with the slogan \"Straight Pride\". Some state and national gay advocacy groups denounced the shirts, claiming that they echoed the use by racist groups of a \"white pride\" slogan. Some of the opposition arose from reports that the shirt seller was a sponsor of the event with a cut of sales funding the Tea Party Express, although those reports may not have been accurate.\n\nSupport for straight pride events is often based on religious objections to homosexuality. Groups such as the White Aryan Resistance and Ku Klux Klan have also tried to oppose \"gay pride\" by stressing straight pride.\n\n\nIn 2001, Woodbury High School in Woodbury, Minnesota, a suburb of Saint Paul, Minnesota, created homophobia-free areas called \"safe zones\" designated by an inverted pink triangle and intended for LGBT students. Student Elliot Chambers reacted by wearing a makeshift sweatshirt with the slogan \"Straight Pride\" and the image of male and female stick figures holding hands. In light of previous anti-LGBT incidents, the school's principal ordered Chambers to remove the shirt, and a court case ensued. A court upheld Chambers' complaint that his First Amendment rights had been violated, and that the principal's decision was unjustified. Although praising the principal's intentions, the judge explained that views of both sides of the debate should be allowed and that such issues should be resolved within the school's community, not within the court system. Under the Tinker case, the court stated that the substantial disruptions claimed by the school must be shown to have some connection to Chambers' sweatshirt message of \"Straight Pride\".\n\nIn 2010, in response to local suicides amongst LGBT adolescents, an Ally Week was held at St. Charles North High School in St. Charles, Illinois. On the first day of this Ally Week, though, three students arrived wearing \"Straight Pride\" t-shirts. The back of these t-shirts displayed \"\", the verse stating that those who perform homosexual acts should be put to death. While the school did not force the students to remove their t-shirts, it did persuade them to remove the bible quotation. The following day two different students arrived wearing \"Straight Pride\" t-shirts minus the Bible quotations and were consequently asked to remove their shirts. In an opinion piece on the St. Charles incident, Eric Zorn (a staff writer for the \"Chicago Tribune\") opined that \"the expression 'Straight Pride' can only be read as a gratuitous and contemptuous response to the suggestion that gay people not be marginalized.\"\n\nIn school environments, straight pride expressions and events have been reviewed within a framework of balancing freedom of expression with protection of other students. In some situations, schools take actions against students who are open about or encourage hiding homosexuality, or limit clothing that has references to sexual orientation. Such may prompt lawsuits. In the Minnesota Chambers v. Babbitt case, \"The court noted that maintaining a school community of tolerance includes tolerance of such viewpoints as expressed by 'Straight Pride' as well as tolerance of homosexuality.\" Conversely, it is advocated that students (including openly gay students) who are valued and respected are \"more likely to learn and achieve than students who are not\", requiring a balance in the school's approach to straight pride expressions.\n\n"}
{"id": "15037418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15037418", "title": "T Visionarium", "text": "T Visionarium\n\nT_Visionarium is an art installation by Neil Brown, Dennis Del Favero, Jeffrey Shaw and Peter Weibel developed through the iCinema Centre for Interactive Cinema Research at The University of New South Wales in co-operation with ZKM Center for Art and Media, Karlsruhe.\n\nIn contrast to conventional cinema, where viewers passively watch a singular linear story unfold on a flat screen, T_Visionarium allows viewers to explore and edit a multitude of stories, in 3 dimensions, on a 360-degree fully surrounding screen.\n\nT_Visionarium takes two forms. The first version, T_Visionarium I (2003), is set within an inflatable dome, named EVE or the Extended Virtual Environment, 12 metres wide and 9 metres high. This immersive environment was invented by Shaw in 1993. Once inside EVE viewers wear a head mounted position tracking device and headphones and step onto a control platform in the middle of the dome. This interface device enables the viewer's head movements to control the movement of the projection system. By moving the direction of their head, and hence their gaze, viewers navigate around the images projected onto the interior of the dome.\n\nThe second version, T_Visionarium II (2008), is set within AVIE, or the Advanced Visualisation and Interaction Environment. AVIE is the world's first 360 degree stereoscopic projection cinema . AVIE is a 120-square metre circular screen that surrounds the audience and provides the environment for a wholly immersive three-dimensional cinematic experience. AVIE allows audiences to wander at will through the projection space without having to sit in a fixed location as in a conventional cinema or to stand on a control platform as in T_Visionarium I, interacting with the projected information as if they are really there .\n\nViewers wearing three-dimensional glasses step inside a cylindrical cinema screen measuring four metres high and 10 metres in diameter. Twelve digital projectors create a high-resolution stereoscopic 3D image on this screen, and the audio is spatially enhanced via a 24- channel surround sound system.\n\nThe Director of the Centre is Dennis Del Favero. It was founded in 2002 by Jeffrey Shaw, Dennis Del Favero and Neil Brown and is a unique multi-disciplinary joint venture of the College for Fine Arts, the Faculty of Engineering and the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences at The University of New South Wales. The iCinema Centre comprises over 20 research staff and 16 research students working together across the disciplines of new media, aesthetics, experimental art, film theory, multimedia design, computer science, artificial intelligence and software and hardware engineering.\n\nThe iCinema research program focuses on research into digital interactivity for benchmark applications across the arts, culture and industry. This includes research into: \n\nThe T_Visionarium project was funded by an Australian Research Council Discovery Grant, and co-produced with the ZKM Center for Art and Media, Karlsruhe, Germany\n\nT_Visionarium I was premiered at EuroLille, Lille, France, as part of the 2004 European Cultural Capital Lille Festival. Since then the work has been exhibited at Casa Dell'Architettura, Rome, Italy, as part of the 2006 La Rivoluzione Algorithmica exhibition. T_Visionarium II was premiered at the iCinema Scientia Facility at The University of New South Wales in January 2008 as part of the Sydney Festival. In November 2009, T_Visionarium was exhibited in Amsterdam, at the Zuiderkerk.\n\nFor the T_Visionarium I project researchers at iCinema captured 24 hours of European television, for T_Visionarium II 28 hours of digital free to air Australian television, both over a period of one week. This footage was segmented and converted into a massive database, in the latter case containing over 20,000 video clips.\n\nEach video clip was then tagged with descriptors known as metadata, which define the properties of the clip. Information can be encoded such as the gender of the actors, the dominant emotions they are expressing, the pace of the scene, and specific actions such as standing up, lying down, or telephoning. Having the video data segmented in this way deconstructs the television's original linear narrative into components that then become building blocks that the viewer can associate and re-assemble in an infinite number of ways .\n\nIn T_Visionarium I, the viewer is able to search this database of television recordings via a touch screen menu using a keyword search. The software then reassembles these clips over the entire projection surface of EVE, generating relationships between clips based on the viewer's keyword search.\n\nIn T_Visionarium II over three hundred video clips are simultaneously displayed and distributed around AVIE's circular screen. Using a specially designed interface, the viewer can trigger and reassemble clips from the database by selecting a particular video clip from those displayed. The archive of video clips then reassembles themselves within the 3D immersive space of AVIE based on their relationship to this selection. Those clips with the strongest relationship to the selection are triggered from the archive and cluster around the particular clip, whilst those with weaker relationships shift away from the clip .\n\nRather than the keyword search of T_Visionarium I, T_Visionarium II allows for associative and affective searches. This latter search is based on the visual or emotional characteristics of the clip selected, rather than based on semantic information.\n\nThe decontextualisation of the television clips fractures the medium's imaging of the world. Rather than the definite representation of the world proposed by television's linear narrative logic, in T_Visionarium, the viewer is confronted with a world represented as a complex of data, of emergent narrative events, rather than mediated as a prefabricated linear narrative .\n\nThe T_Visionarium project is framed by the concept of aesthetic transcription, that is, the way new meaning can be produced is based on how content moves from one expressive medium to another . This is seen throughout art history where an artist recreates motifs from another artist's work (for an instance of this one can cite the apparent evolution from the goddess figure, say Venus, in archaic Greek sculpture to its conception in the classical period through to its appearance in renaissance oil painting). The concept of aesthetic transcription treats each adoption of techniques or cultural data as differentiated in itself, as something new, rather than as an imitation of what went before . In T_Visionarium, the digital allows the transcription of televisual data, decontextualising the original data, and reconstituting it within a new artifact. In other words, the archiving abilities of the digital allow data to be changed from its original conception as firstly, new narrative relationships generated between the multitudes of archived data and secondly, as meaningful narrative events that emerge as a result of viewer interaction.\n\nFollowing Roland Barthes' famous essay \"The Death of the Author\", this work, rather than being the product of a single author, allows aesthetic negotiations to occur between audience and text. It enables an emergent bond between artist, audience, and the work. In this way, T_Visionarium provides not just a recognition of the artist and the audience's part in the formation of art, but also the constitutive role of the particular media . In T_Visionarium, the artist sets the initial conditions for interaction and the viewer and the technology are responsible for the formation of the art event.\n\nThe T_Visionarium project also proposes a re-evaluation of narrative in the digital. Del Favero, Brown, Shaw and Weibel have explained that traditionally narrative is conceptualized as mono-temporal and linear whereas interactive narrative is commonly understood as non-linear. In contrast to this, in T_Visionarium narrative is to be understood as \"multi-temporal\", a concept that alleviates the sharp distinction between linear and non-linear narratives . They explain this concept as the mingling of virtual time and real time. This occurs in T_Visionarium as the viewer searches the televisual database in virtual time and experiences the consequences of this navigation in real time. Tim Barker builds on this description to situate the \"multi-temporal\" in T_Visionarium as the consequence of the viewer's ability to access multiple temporal episodes simultaneously. As each television clip represents different time periods, the result of accessing these all at once is what he refers to as a \"multi-temporal duration\", a duration of time that is made up of multiple and differentiated representations of time . In this model of interaction, the viewer and the database form \"…a digital ecology able to generate unprecedented aesthetic and social meanings\" . In other words, the viewer and the database of T_Visionarium collaborate to generate the narrative events that constitute T_Visionarium.\n\nThe unique way that T_Visionarium uses AVIE to navigate and articulate vast amounts of audiovisual data is significant for the cultural, entertainment, education and industrial sectors . Particular examples of this are the licensing of AVIE systems to Mines Rescue Pty Ltd as a mines safety training device .\n\nThe software system for T_Visionarium was developed by a team of engineers led by Matthew McGinity and include Balint Seeber, Jared Berghold, Ardrian Hardjono, Tim Kreger, Thi Thanh Nga Nguyen, Gunawan Herman, Multimedia and Video Communication Research Group (Dr Jack Yu), NICTA and Volker Kuchelmeister.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2299565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2299565", "title": "Ti (concept)", "text": "Ti (concept)\n\nTi () is the Chinese word for substance or body. In Neo-Confucianism, this concept is often associated with yong, which means \"use\" or \"function.\"\n"}
{"id": "40282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40282", "title": "Type theory", "text": "Type theory\n\nIn mathematics, logic, and computer science, type theory is a branch of computational logic that studies types, which informally, are attributes that objects can possess. In type theory, each object is a \"term\" of a definite type and operations on objects are restricted to those which are definitely terms of the relevant types. As a formal system, some type theories contend to be simultaneously an alternative foundation of mathematics to set theory, a programming language and a calculus for category theory. \n\nType theory is closely related to (and in some cases overlaps with) type systems, which are a programming language feature used to reduce bugs. Type theory was created to avoid paradoxes in a variety of formal logics and rewrite systems.\n\nTwo well-known type theories that can serve as mathematical foundations are Alonzo Church's typed λ-calculus and Per Martin-Löf's intuitionistic type theory.\n\nBetween 1902 and 1908 Bertrand Russell proposed various \"theories of type\" in response to his discovery that Gottlob Frege's version of naive set theory was afflicted with Russell's paradox. By 1908 Russell arrived at a \"ramified\" theory of types together with an \"axiom of reducibility\" both of which featured prominently in Whitehead and Russell's \"Principia Mathematica\" published between 1910 and 1913. They attempted to resolve Russell's paradox by first creating a hierarchy of types, then assigning each concrete mathematical (and possibly other) entity to a type. Entities of a given type are built exclusively from entities of those types that are lower in their hierarchy, thus preventing an entity from being assigned to itself. In the 1920s, Leon Chwistek and Frank P. Ramsey proposed an unramified type theory, now known as the \"theory of simple types\" or \"simple type theory\", that collapsed the hierarchy of the types in the earlier ramified theory and as such did not require the axiom of reducibility.\n\nThe common usage of \"type theory\" is when those types are used with a term rewrite system. The most famous early example is Alonzo Church's simply typed lambda calculus. Church's theory of types helped the formal system avoid the Kleene–Rosser paradox that afflicted the original untyped lambda calculus. Church demonstrated that it could serve as a foundation of mathematics and it was referred to as a higher-order logic.\n\nSome other type theories include Per Martin-Löf's intuitionistic type theory, which has been the foundation used in some areas of constructive mathematics and for the proof assistant Agda. Thierry Coquand's calculus of constructions and its derivatives are the foundation used by Coq and others. The field is an area of active research, as demonstrated by homotopy type theory.\n\nIn a system of type theory, each term has a type. For example, formula_1, formula_2, and formula_3 are all separate terms with the type formula_4 for natural numbers. Traditionally, the term is followed by a colon and its type, such as formula_5.\n\nType theories have explicit computation and it is encoded in rules for rewriting terms. These are called conversion rules or, if the rule only works in one direction, a reduction rule. For example, formula_6 and formula_1 are syntactically different terms, but the former reduces to the latter. This reduction is written formula_8.\n\nFunctions in type theory have a special reduction rule: the argument of the function call gets substituted for every occurrence of the parameter in the function definition. Let's say the function formula_9 is defined as formula_10 (using Church's lambda notation) or formula_11 (using a more modern notation). Then, the function call formula_12 would be reduced by substituting formula_13 for every copy of formula_14 in the body of the function definition. Thus, formula_15.\n\nThe type of a function is denoted with an arrow formula_16 from the parameter type to the function's resulting type. Thus, formula_17. Calling or \"applying\" a function to an argument may be written with or without parentheses, so formula_18 or formula_12. Not using parentheses is more common, because multiple argument functions can be defined using currying.\n\nThere are many different set theories and many different systems of type theory, so what follows are generalizations.\n\nThe term formula_20 reduces to formula_21. Since formula_21 cannot be reduced further, it is called a normal form. A system of type theory is said to be strongly normalizing if all terms have a normal form and any order of reductions reaches it. Weakly normalizing systems have a normal form but some orders of reductions may loop forever and never reach it.\n\nFor a normalizing system, some borrow the word element from set theory and use it to refer to all closed terms that can reduce to the same normal form. A closed term is one without parameters. (A term like formula_23 with its parameter formula_14 is called an open term.) Thus, formula_20 and formula_26 may be different terms but they are both from the element formula_21.\n\nA similar idea that works for open and closed terms is convertibility. Two terms are convertible if there exists a term that they both reduce to. For example, formula_20 and formula_29 are convertible. As are formula_30 and formula_31. However, formula_23 and formula_33 (where formula_14 is a free variable) are not because both are in normal form and they are not the same. Confluent and weakly normalizing systems can test if two terms are convertible by checking if they both reduce to the same normal form.\n\nA dependent type is a type that depends on a term or on another type. Thus, the type returned by a function may depend upon the argument to the function.\n\nFor example, a list of formula_4s of length 4 may be a different type than a list of formula_4s of length 5. In a type theory with dependent types, it is possible to define a function that takes a parameter \"n\" and returns a list containing \"n\" zeros. Calling the function with 4 would produce a term with a different type than if the function was called with 5.\n\nDependent types play a central role in intuitionistic type theory and in the design of functional programming languages like Idris, ATS, Agda and Epigram.\n\nMany systems of type theory have a type that represents equality of types and of terms. This type is different from convertibility, and is often denoted propositional equality.\n\nIn intuitionistic type theory, the equality type (also called the identity type) is known as formula_37 for identity. There is a type formula_38 when formula_39 is a type and formula_40 and formula_41 are both terms of type formula_39. A term of type formula_38 is interpreted as meaning that formula_40 is equal to formula_41.\n\nIn practice, it is possible to build a type formula_46 but there will not exist a term of that type. In intuitionistic type theory, new terms of equality start with reflexivity. If formula_21 is a term of type formula_4, then there exists a term of type formula_49. More complicated equalities can be created by creating a reflexive term and then doing a reduction on one side. So if formula_50 is a term of type formula_4, then there is a term of type formula_52 and, by reduction, generate a term of type formula_53. Thus, in this system, the equality type denotes that two values of the same type are convertible by reductions.\n\nHaving a type for equality is important because it can be manipulated inside the system. There is usually no judgement to say two terms are \"not\" equal; instead, as in the Brouwer–Heyting–Kolmogorov interpretation, we map formula_54 to formula_55, where formula_56 is the bottom type having no values. There exists a term with type but not one of type formula_57.\n\nHomotopy type theory differs from intuitionistic type theory mostly by its handling of the equality type.\n\nA system of type theory requires some basic terms and types to operate on. Some systems build them out of functions using Church encoding. Other systems have inductive types: a set of base types and a set of type constructors that generate types with well-behaved properties. For example, certain recursive functions called on inductive types are guaranteed to terminate.\n\nCoinductive type are infinite data types created by giving a function that generates the next element(s). See Coinduction and Corecursion.\n\nInduction-induction is a feature for declaring an inductive type and a family of types that depends on the inductive type.\n\nInduction recursion allows a wider range of well-behaved types, allowing the type and recursive functions operating on it to be defined at the same time.\n\nTypes were created to prevent paradoxes, such as Russell's paradox. However, the motives that lead to those paradoxes—being able to say things about all types—still exist. So, many type theories have a \"universe type\", which contains all \"other\" types (and not itself).\n\nIn systems where you might want to say something about universe types, there is a hierarchy of universe types, each containing the one below it in the hierarchy. The hierarchy is defined as being infinite, but statements must only refer to a finite number of universe levels.\n\nType universes are particularly tricky in type theory. The initial proposal of intuitionistic type theory suffered from Girard's paradox.\n\nMany systems of type theory, such as the simply-typed lambda calculus, intuitionistic type theory, and the calculus of constructions, are also programming languages. That is, they are said to have a \"computational component\". The computation is the reduction of terms of the language using rewriting rules.\n\nA system of type theory that has a well-behaved computational component also has a simple connection to constructive mathematics through the BHK interpretation.\n\nNon-constructive mathematics in these systems is possible by adding operators on continuations such as call with current continuation. However, these operators tend to break desirable properties such as canonicity and parametricity.\n\n\n\n\nThere is extensive overlap and interaction between the fields of type theory and type systems. Type systems are a programming language feature designed to identify bugs. Any static program analysis, such as the type checking algorithms in the semantic analysis phase of compiler, has a connection to type theory.\n\nA prime example is Agda, a programming language which uses intuitionistic type theory for its type system. The programming language ML was developed for manipulating type theories (see LCF) and its own type system was heavily influenced by them.\n\nThe first computer proof assistant, called Automath, used type theory to encode mathematics on a computer. Martin-Löf specifically developed intuitionistic type theory to encode \"all\" mathematics to serve as a new foundation for mathematics. There is current research into mathematical foundations using homotopy type theory.\n\nMathematicians working in category theory already had difficulty working with the widely accepted foundation of Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory. This led to proposals such as Lawvere's Elementary Theory of the Category of Sets (ETCS). Homotopy type theory continues in this line using type theory. Researchers are exploring connections between dependent types (especially the identity type) and algebraic topology (specifically homotopy).\n\nMuch of the current research into type theory is driven by proof checkers, interactive proof assistants, and automated theorem provers. Most of these systems use a type theory as the mathematical foundation for encoding proofs, which is not surprising, given the close connection between type theory and programming languages:\n\nMultiple type theories are supported by LEGO and Isabelle. Isabelle also supports foundations besides type theories, such as ZFC. Mizar is an example of a proof system that only supports set theory.\n\nType theory is also widely in use in formal theories of semantics of natural languages, especially Montague grammar and its descendants. In particular, categorial grammars and pregroup grammars make extensive use of type constructors to define the types (\"noun\", \"verb\", etc.) of words.\n\nThe most common construction takes the basic types formula_58 and formula_59 for individuals and truth-values, respectively, and defines the set of types recursively as follows:\n\nA complex type formula_62 is the type of functions from entities of type formula_40 to entities of type formula_41. Thus one has types like formula_66 which are interpreted as elements of the set of functions from entities to truth-values, i.e. indicator functions of sets of entities. An expression of type formula_67 is a function from sets of entities to truth-values, i.e. a (indicator function of a) set of sets. This latter type is standardly taken to be the type of natural language quantifiers, like \" everybody\" or \" nobody\" (Montague 1973, Barwise and Cooper 1981).\n\nGregory Bateson introduced a theory of logical types into the social sciences; his notions of double bind and logical levels are based on Russell's theory of types.\n\nAlthough the initial motivation for category theory was far removed from foundationalism, the two fields turned out to have deep connections. As John Lane Bell writes: \"In fact categories can \"themselves\" be viewed as type theories of a certain kind; this fact alone indicates that type theory is much more closely related to category theory than it is to set theory.\" In brief, a category can be viewed as a type theory by regarding its objects as types (or sorts), i.e. \"Roughly speaking, a category may be thought of as a type theory shorn of its syntax.\" A number of significant results follow in this way:\n\nThe interplay, known as categorical logic, has been a subject of active research since then; see the monograph of Jacobs (1999) for instance.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18702694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18702694", "title": "Understanding of Self and Identity", "text": "Understanding of Self and Identity\n\nSelf and Identity is a subfield of psychology. As the name implies, it deals with topics pertaining to both self and identity. Key areas of investigation include self-concept, self-esteem, and self-control.\n\nWhat distinguishes self and identity as a discipline is its scientific character. Emphasis is placed on the empirical testing of systematic theories about relevant phenomena. Hence, its methodological approach differs from both philosophy and sociology.\nSelf and Identity incorporates elements from different areas of psychology. However, it owes particularly large debt to personality psychology and social psychology.\n\nThere are levels of analysis that one can look at self and identity. One level of analysis is the self on the individual level, for example, self-states, self-motives, self-esteem, self-efficacy, etc. Self-states are self-process that include unbiased self-awareness. However, self-motives are more serious impulses to action, something that is innate and Societal or cultural analysis of the self.\nThe other level of analysis is on the societal or cultural level, for example, the cultural conception of a person, cultural arrangements that make the person who they are and the cultural concept of self. \n\nSelf and identity are highly contingent upon culture. In industrialized Western cultures, the concept of self is based solely on independence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43490", "title": "Windmill", "text": "Windmill\n\nA windmill is a mill that converts the energy of wind into rotational energy by means of vanes called sails or blades. Centuries ago, windmills usually were used to mill grain (gristmills), pump water (windpumps), or both. The majority of modern windmills take the form of wind turbines used to generate electricity, or windpumps used to pump water, either for land drainage or to extract groundwater.\n\nThe windwheel of the Greek engineer Heron of Alexandria in the first century is the earliest known instance of using a wind-driven wheel to power a machine. Another early example of a wind-driven wheel was the prayer wheel, which has been used in Tibet and China since the fourth century.\nIt has been claimed that the Babylonian emperor Hammurabi planned to use wind power for his ambitious irrigation project in the seventeenth century BCE.\n\nThe first practical windmills had sails that rotated in a horizontal plane, around a vertical axis. According to Ahmad Y. al-Hassan, these panemone windmills were invented in eastern Persia, or Khorasan, as recorded by the Persian geographer Estakhri in the ninth century. The authenticity of an earlier anecdote of a windmill involving the second caliph Umar (AD 634–644) is questioned on the grounds that it appears in a tenth-century document. Made of six to 12 sails covered in reed matting or cloth material, these windmills were used to grind grain or draw up water, and were quite different from the later European vertical windmills. Windmills were in widespread use across the Middle East and Central Asia, and later spread to China and India from there.\n\nA similar type of horizontal windmill with rectangular blades, used for irrigation, can also be found in thirteenth-century China (during the Jurchen Jin dynasty in the north), introduced by the travels of Yelü Chucai to Turkestan in 1219.\n\nHorizontal windmills were built, in small numbers, in Europe during the 18th and nineteenth centuries, for example Fowler's Mill at Battersea in London, and Hooper's Mill at Margate in Kent. These early modern examples seem not to have been directly influenced by the horizontal windmills of the Middle and Far East, but to have been independent inventions by engineers influenced by the Industrial Revolution.\n\nDue to a lack of evidence, debate occurs among historians as to whether or not Middle Eastern horizontal windmills triggered the original development of European windmills. In northwestern Europe, the horizontal-axis or vertical windmill (so called due to the plane of the movement of its sails) is believed to date from the twelfth and thirteenth centuries in the triangle of northern France, eastern England and Flanders.\n\nThe earliest certain reference to a windmill in Europe (assumed to have been of the vertical type) dates from 1185, in the former village of Weedley in Yorkshire which was located at the southern tip of the Wold overlooking the Humber Estuary. A number of earlier, but less certainly dated, twelfth-century European sources referring to windmills have also been found.\nThese earliest mills were used to grind cereals.\n\nThe evidence at present is that the earliest type of European windmill was the post mill, so named because of the large upright post on which the mill's main structure (the \"body\" or \"buck\") is balanced. By mounting the body this way, the mill is able to rotate to face the wind direction; an essential requirement for windmills to operate economically in north-western Europe, where wind directions are variable. The body contains all the milling machinery. The first post mills were of the sunken type, where the post was buried in an earth mound to support it. Later, a wooden support was developed called the trestle. This was often covered over or surrounded by a roundhouse to protect the trestle from the weather and to provide storage space. This type of windmill was the most common in Europe until the nineteenth century, when more powerful tower and smock mills replaced them.\n\nIn a hollow-post mill, the post on which the body is mounted is hollowed out, to accommodate the drive shaft.\nThis makes it possible to drive machinery below or outside the body while still being able to rotate the body into the wind. Hollow-post mills driving scoop wheels were used in the Netherlands to drain wetlands from the fourteenth century onwards.\n\nBy the end of the thirteenth century, the masonry tower mill, on which only the cap is rotated rather than the whole body of the mill, had been introduced. The spread of tower mills came with a growing economy that called for larger and more stable sources of power, though they were more expensive to build. In contrast to the post mill, only the cap of the tower mill needs to be turned into the wind, so the main structure can be made much taller, allowing the sails to be made longer, which enables them to provide useful work even in low winds. The cap can be turned into the wind either by winches or gearing inside the cap or from a winch on the tail pole outside the mill. A method of keeping the cap and sails into the wind automatically is by using a fantail, a small windmill mounted at right angles to the sails, at the rear of the windmill. These are also fitted to tail poles of post mills and are common in Great Britain and English-speaking countries of the former British Empire, Denmark, and Germany but rare in other places. Around some parts of the Mediterranean Sea, tower mills with fixed caps were built because the wind's direction varied little most of the time.\n\nThe smock mill is a later development of the tower mill, where the masonry tower is replaced by a wooden framework, called the \"smock\", which is thatched, boarded or covered by other materials, such as slate, sheet metal, or tar paper. The smock is commonly of octagonal plan, though there are examples with different numbers of sides. The lighter weight than tower mills make smock mills practical as drainage mills, which often had to be built in areas with unstable subsoil. Smock mills originated for drainage, but are also used for other purposes. When used in a built-up area it is often placed on a masonry base to raise it above the surrounding buildings.\n\nCommon sails consist of a lattice framework on which a sailcloth is spread. The miller can adjust the amount of cloth spread according to the wind and the power needed. In medieval mills, the sailcloth was wound in and out of a ladder type arrangement of sails. Later mill sails had a lattice framework over which the sailcloth was spread, while in colder climates, the cloth was replaced by wooden slats, which were easier to handle in freezing conditions. The jib sail is commonly found in Mediterranean countries, and consists of a simple triangle of cloth wound round a spar.\n\nIn all cases, the mill needs to be stopped to adjust the sails. Inventions in Great Britain in the late eighteenth and nineteenth centuries led to sails that automatically adjust to the wind speed without the need for the miller to intervene, culminating in patent sails invented by William Cubitt in 1807. In these sails, the cloth is replaced by a mechanism of connected shutters.\n\nIn France, Pierre-Théophile Berton invented a system consisting of longitudinal wooden slats connected by a mechanism that lets the miller open them while the mill is turning. In the twentieth century, increased knowledge of aerodynamics from the development of the airplane led to further improvements in efficiency by German engineer Bilau and several Dutch millwrights.\nThe majority of windmills have four sails. Multiple-sailed mills, with five, six or eight sails, were built in Great Britain (especially in and around the counties of Lincolnshire and Yorkshire), Germany, and less commonly elsewhere. Earlier multiple-sailed mills are found in Spain, Portugal, Greece, parts of Romania, Bulgaria, and Russia. A mill with an even number of sails has the advantage of being able to run with a damaged sail by removing both the damaged sail and the one opposite, which does not unbalance the mill.\nIn the Netherlands the stationary position of the sails, i.e. when the mill is not working, has long been used to give signals. A slight tilt of the sails before the main building signals joy, while a tilt after the building signals mourning. Across the Netherlands, windmills were placed in mourning position in honor of the Dutch victims of the 2014 Malaysian Airlines Flight 17 shootdown.\n\nGears inside a windmill convey power from the rotary motion of the sails to a mechanical device. The sails are carried on the horizontal windshaft. Windshafts can be wholly made of wood, or wood with a cast iron poll end (where the sails are mounted) or entirely of cast iron. The brake wheel is fitted onto the windshaft between the front and rear bearing. It has the brake around the outside of the rim and teeth in the side of the rim which drive the horizontal gearwheel called wallower on the top end of the vertical upright shaft. In grist mills, the great spur wheel, lower down the upright shaft, drives one or more stone nuts on the shafts driving each millstone. Post mills sometimes have a head and/or tail wheel driving the stone nuts directly, instead of the spur gear arrangement. Additional gear wheels drive a sack hoist or other machinery.\nThe machinery differs if the windmill is used for other applications than milling grain. A drainage mill uses another set of gear wheels on the bottom end of the upright shaft to drive a scoop wheel or Archimedes' screw. Sawmills use a crankshaft to provide a reciprocating motion to the saws. Windmills have been used to power many other industrial processes, including papermills, threshing mills, and to process oil seeds, wool, paints and stone products.\n\nIn the 14th century windmills became popular in Europe; the total number of wind-powered mills is estimated to have been around 200,000 at the peak in 1850, which is modest compared to some 500,000 waterwheels. Windmills were applied in regions where there was too little water, where rivers freeze in winter and in flat lands where the flow of the river was too slow to provide the required power. With the coming of the industrial revolution, the importance of wind and water as primary industrial energy sources declined, and they were eventually replaced by steam (in steam mills) and internal combustion engines, although windmills continued to be built in large numbers until late in the nineteenth century. More recently, windmills have been preserved for their historic value, in some cases as static exhibits when the antique machinery is too fragile to put in motion, and in other cases as fully working mills.\n\nOf the 10,000 windmills in use in the Netherlands around 1850, about 1,000 are still standing. Most of these are being run by volunteers, though some grist mills are still operating commercially. Many of the drainage mills have been appointed as backup to the modern pumping stations. The Zaan district has been said to have been the first industrialized region of the world with around 600 operating wind-powered industries by the end of the eighteenth century. Economic fluctuations and the industrial revolution had a much greater impact on these industries than on grain and drainage mills, so only very few are left.\n\nConstruction of mills spread to the Cape Colony in the seventeenth century. The early tower mills did not survive the gales of the Cape Peninsula, so in 1717 the Heeren XVII sent carpenters, masons, and materials to construct a durable mill. The mill, completed in 1718, became known as the \"Oude Molen\" and was located between Pinelands Station and the Black River. Long since demolished, its name lives on as that of a Technical school in Pinelands. By 1863, Cape Town had 11 mills stretching from Paarden Eiland to Mowbray.\n\nA wind turbine is a windmill-like structure specifically developed to generate electricity. They can be seen as the next step in the development of the windmill. The first wind turbines were built by the end of the nineteenth century by Prof James Blyth in Scotland (1887), Charles F. Brush in Cleveland, Ohio (1887–1888) and Poul la Cour in Denmark (1890s). La Cour's mill from 1896 later became the local powerplant of the village Askov. By 1908 there were 72 wind-driven electric generators in Denmark, ranging from 5 to 25 kW. By the 1930s, windmills were widely used to generate electricity on farms in the United States where distribution systems had not yet been installed, built by companies such as Jacobs Wind, Wincharger, Miller Airlite, Universal Aeroelectric, Paris-Dunn, Airline, and Winpower. The Dunlite Corporation produced turbines for similar locations in Australia.\nForerunners of modern horizontal-axis utility-scale wind generators were the WIME-3D in service in Balaklava USSR from 1931 until 1942, a 100-kW generator on a 30-m (100-ft) tower, the Smith-Putnam wind turbine built in 1941 on the mountain known as Grandpa's Knob in Castleton, Vermont, United States of 1.25 MW and the NASA wind turbines developed from 1974 through the mid-1980s. The development of these 13 experimental wind turbines pioneered many of the wind turbine design technologies in use today, including: steel tube towers, variable-speed generators, composite blade materials, and partial-span pitch control, as well as aerodynamic, structural, and acoustic engineering design capabilities. The modern wind power industry began in 1979 with the serial production of wind turbines by Danish manufacturers Kuriant, Vestas, Nordtank, and Bonus. These early turbines were small by today's standards, with capacities of 20–30 kW each. Since then, commercial turbines have increased greatly in size, with the Enercon E-126 capable of delivering up to 7 MW, while wind turbine production has expanded to many countries.\n\nAs the 21st century began, rising concerns over energy security, global warming, and eventual fossil fuel depletion led to an expansion of interest in all available forms of renewable energy. Worldwide, many thousands of wind turbines are now operating, with a total nameplate capacity of 194,400 MW. Europe accounted for 48% of the total in 2009.\n\nWindpumps were used to pump water since at least the 9th century in what is now Afghanistan, Iran and Pakistan. The use of wind pumps became widespread across the Muslim world and later spread to China and India. Windmills were later used extensively in Europe, particularly in the Netherlands and the East Anglia area of Great Britain, from the late Middle Ages onwards, to drain land for agricultural or building purposes.\n\nThe American windmill, or wind engine, was invented by Daniel Halladay in 1854 and was used mostly for lifting water from wells. Larger versions were also used for tasks such as sawing wood, chopping hay, and shelling and grinding grain. In early California and some other states, the windmill was part of a self-contained domestic water system which included a hand-dug well and a wooden water tower supporting a redwood tank enclosed by wooden siding known as a tankhouse. During the late 19th century steel blades and steel towers replaced wooden construction. At their peak in 1930, an estimated 600,000 units were in use. Firms such as U.S. Wind Engine and Pump Company, Challenge Wind Mill and Feed Mill Company, Appleton Manufacturing Company, Star, Eclipse, Fairbanks-Morse, Dempster Mill Manufacturing Company and Aermotor became the main suppliers in North and South America. These windpumps are used extensively on farms and ranches in the United States, Canada, Southern Africa, and Australia. They feature a large number of blades, so they turn slowly with considerable torque in low winds and are self-regulating in high winds. A tower-top gearbox and crankshaft convert the rotary motion into reciprocating strokes carried downward through a rod to the pump cylinder below. Such mills pumped water and powered feed mills, saw mills, and agricultural machinery.\n\nIn Australia, the Griffiths Brothers at Toowoomba manufactured windmills of the American pattern from 1876, with the trade name Southern Cross Windmills in use from 1903. These became an icon of the Australian rural sector by utilizing the water of the Great Artesian Basin. Another well-known maker was Metters Ltd. of Adelaide, Perth and Sydney.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56094132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56094132", "title": "Women's liberation movement in Oceania", "text": "Women's liberation movement in Oceania\n\nThe women's liberation movement in Oceania was a feminist movement that started in the late 1960s and continued through the early 1980s. Influenced by the movement which sought to make personal issues political and bring discussion of sexism into the political discourse in the United States and elsewhere, women in Australia and New Zealand began forming WLM groups in 1969 and 1970. Few organisations formed in the Pacific Islands, but both Fiji and Guam had women affiliated with the movement.\n\nQuickly adherents spread throughout Australia and New Zealand. Their primary issue was autonomy for women in all spheres of life, including focus on child care centers, equal opportunity for and pay and employment, objectification of women, reproductive rights, sexuality and sexual abuse. Most importantly, they wanted a fundamental change in the way society perceived women. Rejecting that reforming existing laws would change women's place in society without an accompanying change in the thoughts about women, liberationists participated in public protests, published information on issues, and held meetings to organise lobbying efforts. \n\nIn 1969, Martha Ansara, who had relocated after a divorce from the United States that year to Sydney, joined with Margaret Eliot, Sandra Hawker, and Coonie Sandford to form a discussion group about materials on the Women's Liberation Movement that she had brought from the States. They decided to host a meeting on the topic and prepared a pamphlet \"Only the Chains Have Changed\" to announce the January 1970 meeting. That same year, Warren Osmond, a tutor at the University of Adelaide had read about the protest over the Miss America Pageant and wrote an article in \"On Dit\", the student newspaper drawing parallels with the university's \"Miss Fresher\" Pageant. In March 1970, a group of Adelaide Women's Liberation adherents picketed the contest. By May, the first nationwide conference on Women's Liberation, profiling \"Female Conditioning\" was organised in Melbourne, spreading the movement quickly across Australia.\n\nAfter police raided the Heatherbrae Clinic, an abortion referral facility in 1970, the Sydney Women's Liberation group organised a protest in July and wrote about it in their newsletter. Throughout the September trial, they demonstrated at the court, advocating for legal abortion. The WLM organised a motorcade and petition drive for abortion in October. In January 1971, the Gay Liberation affiliate of the Sydney WLM was formed. Hungry for information on the theory and philosophy of the movement, such texts as, \"The Female Eunuch\" (1970) by Germaine Greer, an Australian-born woman living in Britain; \"Sexual Politics\" (1970) by American Kate Millett; \"The Dialectic of Sex\" (1970) by Canadian-American Shulamith Firestone; and \"Woman's Estate\" (1971) by British Juliet Mitchell became widely read and discussed. The mixture of texts from various countries as well as from different political backgrounds resulted in a commitment to collectivity and divergent ideas on how issues which involved women should be addressed. \n\nInitially, men participated in the WLM in Australia, but in the period between 1970 and 1971, women began to oust men from their organisations because they tended to dominate the narrative and inform the women participants of how they should proceed. One of the earliest journals, \"MeJane\", produced by the MeJane Collective of Sydney was founded in 1971 and produced by women like Suzanne Bellamy and Joyce Stevens. As in the US and other places where the movement flourished, small groups of consciousness-raising with a limited organisational structure were the norm and the focus was on changing societal perception rather than legislation. Prominent in the movement were women like Eva Cox, who would become a professor and social commentator; Justice Elizabeth Evatt, first chief justice of the Family Court of Australia; Eileen Haley of Adelaide; Anne Summers, who would write \"Damned Whores and God's Police\" in 1975, which became widely influential; Pat Turner, an aboriginal activist and civil servant; and Biff Ward, a writer and social activist. \n\nIn 1972, the Melbourne Women's Liberation set up a center at 16 Little La Trobe Street which became a gathering place for members of the movement. They produced the \"Women's Liberation Newsletter\" on a gestetner and provided a community referral service to women. In the run-up to the elections that year, two of the WLM groups in Melbourne met to strategise over the federal candidates who might be favorable to women's issues. Out of these strategy sessions, the Women's Electoral Lobby (WEL) was founded and began lobbying the Australian Labour Party to address their concerns. When Labour won, with Gough Whitlam being elected Prime Minister, WEL began lobbying for fulfillment of the promises made in exchange for their support. Whitlam appointed Elizabeth Reid as an advisor on women's affairs. The reaction from other liberationists was clear, when a statement was issued in \"MeJane\" denouncing not only the illegitimacy of a man choosing a woman to be a spokesperson for women, but of choosing a single person to represent diverse points of view. From that point, there was a fissure in the relationship of WLM and WEL.\n\nTwo groups formed in Tasmania in the early 1970s both from the women at the University of Tasmania. The Tasmanian University Union Women's Liberation group formed in 1971 and as one of their main initiatives worked to establish a much-needed Child Care Center for students on campus. The other group, the Hobart Women's Action Group (HWAG) formed in 1972 with members like Kay Daniels and her partner Shirley Castley. That same year they founded the widely-read journal \"Liberaction\". \"Liberaction\" was intellectual but simultaneously irreverent and brought a different spin to WLM literature being produced in Australia. One example of the type of article it produced was their \"Feminist Food Guide\", which took on the stereotypes of women dining out without male companions. Public perception held that women without male escorts were not only not respectable, but incapable of ordering a meal or critiquing it. The members of HWAG visited various restaurants evaluating the atmosphere, the service, the prices and the food, reporting on their experiences. To those who complained that food was not a feminist issue, HWAG commented that they were missing the point that they were a group of women, dining out without children or men, had income and control of their own finances and were able to evaluate their treatment by businesses on their own.\n\nIn 1974, the Elsie Refuge, Australia's first women's shelter was established by Carole Baker, Jennifer Dakers, Anne Summers and other Sydney WLM activists. Influenced by Erin Pizzey's book \"Scream Quietly or the Neighbours Will Hear\", they approached the Church of England in Glebe, which owned many unoccupied properties in search of a suitable dwelling. When the church failed to respond, the activists selected two derelict houses on Westmoreland Street in Glebe and asserted squatter's rights over the properties after they had renovated them to make them habitable and opened to women and their children. Sybylla Press was established in 1976 and published all the feminist tracts of the WLM of Victoria including \"Lesbian News\", \"Scarlet Woman\" and \"Vashti\", among others, until it ceased operations in 1988. That same year, the WLM of Canberra reported that in the six years since their group was formed they had established a meeting house; developed a Women's Centre on Lobelia Street which provided a referral service, abortion counseling and bookstore; a refuge house; and rape crisis center.\n\nThough WLM groups were still functioning in 1979, factionalism in the women's movement and a perception by society at large that they were anti-male, had caused liberationists to withdraw from public demonstration to focus on issues such as education, family law, reproductive rights and employment discrimination.\n\nThe Women's Liberation Movement (WLM) in Sydney began in 1969 with small meetings of women in Balmain and Glebe, as part of the explosive development of Women's Liberation politics and organisation that occurred internationally from the late 1960s and throughout the 1970s.\n\nTalking to each other about experiences previously regarded as belonging only in the domain of 'private life' — such as rape, domestic violence, incest, and abortion — gatherings of women at 67 Glebe Point Road and very soon elsewhere, discovered the commonality of these experiences. These collective conversations about such previously taboo subjects became known as 'Consciousness-raising' and one of the key political differences between older forms of political organising and the new liberation movement. The understanding of women's experiences as universal and systemic, rather than individual and idiosyncratic, became summarised as 'The Personal is Political' and one of the key insights of the Women's Liberation Movement.\n\nInfluenced by the developments in the United States and Britain, women's liberation groups began to form in Wellington and Auckland in 1970, when Therese O'Connell started the Women's Liberation Front Club at Victoria University and Women for Equality emerged in Auckland. Some of their first actions were to invade the \"males only\" Bistro Bar at the Great Northern Hotel and demonstrate at the Miss New Zealand Beauty Pageant. Membership grew quickly, expanding to Dunedin, Christchurch and other areas in New Zealand. Subjects which had previously not been viewed as political, such as childcare, health, housework, and sexuality, became part of public debate as a result of the movement's drive to recognise that the \"personal is political\". In response to Women's Liberation demands, the government of New Zealand established the Society for Research on Women (SROW) in 1970 and hosted series of United Women's Conventions, which covered issues such as violence against women, women's health and abortion. This confirmed that the influence of the movement extended beyond those actively engaged in the WLM, as their aims were not to reform laws and make a place for women in society, but rather create fundamental change in the way women were perceived and society was organised.\n\nIn 1971, Ngahuia Te Awekotuku (Te Arawa-Tūhoe) and Sue Kedgley participated in a protest with other women from the University of Auckland, in Albert Park, to demonstrate the lack of progress for women with a mock funeral procession. Attracting wide media attention, the women were mocked but the coverage sparked a surge of interest and encouraged many women to become involved. The Dunedin Collective for Woman formed in 1971 focusing on the issues of change in society's perception of women, access to child care, equal pay, and women's authority over their own bodies. The group functioned as an umbrella organisation for WLM groups around Dunedin to develop consciousness-raising cells, network with other groups, participate in collective protests, and produce materials on women's issues. Liberationists avoided hierarchical organisation striving for consensus among the membership, which was inclusive of all women. Adopting the \"sisterhood is powerful\" concept that all women were united in their oppression as women, liberationists membership included students, housewives, working women, as well as lesbians, Māori women and other Pacific Islanders. The broad spectrum of members created divisions and fissures began to erupt between socialist feminists, liberal feminists and liberationists.\n\nIn 1972, Kedgley published along with Sharyn Cederman \"Sexist Society\", which examined the stereotypes of men and women's roles in society and marked her exit from liberationist ideals. That same year, Connie Purdue assisted in organising a New Zealand tour by Germaine Greer, a noted feminist from Australia. Te Awekotuku and other liberationists protested Greer's appearance, dressing as witches and calling attention to the exclusion of indigenous people, lesbians and undesirables from her welcome. Purdue's response was that Te Awekotuku had \"set the movement back 50 years\". Kedgley and Purdue, then turned away from radical ideals and formed the National Organisation for Women, based on the United States organisation and begin working on reform policies. In Wellington, the first National Women's Liberation Conference was held in April 1972. Attended by over 500 women and men, the agenda discussed equal opportunities in education and employment, lesbian and reproductive rights, childcare support and the launch of women's studies programmes in university. That same year, Anne Else co-founded \"Broadsheet\" with Sandra Coney, which would become the most prominent feminist journal in New Zealand. Among its editors were Coney, Claire-Louise McCurdy, and Pat Rosier.\nAs many members had children, quality child care was an issue and a focus of liberationist groups was to establish centers where women could meet and childcare was provided. The establishment in 1974 in Dundin of women's center which shared space for a pre-school was typical. Liberationists also established bookstores and women's shelters to provide refuge for women in abusive situations. When they began, shelters in New Zealand created a \"'parallel development' model that involved sharing power between Māori and ‘\"tauiwi\"’ (all people who arrived after Māori) in decision-making, use of funds, public presentations and staffing\", but by 1973, Māori and lesbian groups began to separate themselves to focus on their different issues. One of these groups, first formed in Christchurch, was Sisters for Homophile Equality (SHE) which aimed to politicise the issues faced by women and gay liberationists. Because their issues had differences from mainstream WLM and from the men in the LGBT movement, \"SHE\" focused on the dual discrimination faced by its members. The organisation soon spread to Wellington, where the magazine \"The Circle\" was founded to allow lesbians from throughout the country to network and share ideas.\n\nRadical feminist caucuses were held beginning in 1975 and fostered the development of a network which met between 1976 and 1978. The last three-day conference on the subject of women's liberation took place in Auckland in February 1978 and highlighted the various types of feminist views ranging from anarchy and socialism to racism and lesbianism. Some exchanges grew heated over whether women's oppression stemmed from class differences, racial differences, social differences, a combination of several issues, or were systemic. The divisions pointed to fractures which would eventually split feminists into groups focusing on specific interests. Liberationists continued to operate in New Zealand into the early 1980s, but as its early members moved on to other commitments, groups dispersed.\n\nIn general, many women from the Pacific Islands, which includes some 20,000 islands lying between the Tropic of Cancer and Tropic of Capricorn did not identify with feminism which they thought of as a \"Western philosophy\", as in their cultures, women had defined positions of power. Women in the era often identified with the decolonialisation movement and saw their oppression in terms of having been colonised. Pockets of groups affiliated with Women's Liberation appeared in the region, such as a group which formed in Fiji, at the University of the South Pacific in 1971 and a cooperative \"Guam Women Unite\" formed that same year in Guam.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1350606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1350606", "title": "Zoosadism", "text": "Zoosadism\n\nZoosadism is pleasure derived from cruelty to animals. It is part of the Macdonald triad, a set of three behaviors that are considered a precursor to psychopathic behavior.\n\nSome studies have suggested that individuals who are cruel to animals are more likely to be violent to humans. According to \"The New York Times\":\n\nHelen Gavin wrote however in \"Criminological and Forensic Psychology\" (2013):\n\nAlan R. Felthous reported in his paper \"Aggression Against Cats, Dogs, and People\" (1980):\n\nThis is a commonly reported finding, and for this reason, cruelty to animals is often considered a warning sign of potential violence towards humans.\n\nIn the United States, since 2010, it has been a federal offense to create or distribute \"obscene\" depictions of \"living non-human mammals, birds, reptiles, or amphibians ... subjected to serious bodily injury\". This statute replaced an overly broad 1999 statute which was found unconstitutional in \"United States v. Stevens\".\n\nCritics of the concept of a propensity for cruelty to humans cite the fact that animals can be cruel to some animals yet caring to other animals, combined with Pavlov's studies using metronomes at different rates to test conditioned learning showing that humans can discriminate in fine ways that animals cannot, and conclude that there is no such general basis. The exact way these critics explain studies that seems to show links varies, but most of them state that psychiatric and criminological studies are subject to institutional bias and self-fulfilling prophecies. It is also pointed out that correlation does not prove causation.\n\nOn the other hand, Piers Beirne, a professor of criminology at the University of Southern Maine, has criticized existing studies for ignoring socially accepted practices of violence against animals, such as animal slaughter and vivisection, that might be linked to violence against humans.\n\n\n"}
