{"id": "57107510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57107510", "title": "2017 Quidditch Premier League season", "text": "2017 Quidditch Premier League season\n\nThe 2017 Quidditch Premier League season was the league's first, and was contested by eight teams over the course of the 2017 summer. The eight teams were split into two divisions, with the North Division composed of the Northern Watch, Yorkshire Roses, East Midlands Archers, and West Midlands Revolution, and the South Division composed of the London Monarchs, Southeast Knights, Southwest Broadside, and Eastern Mermaids.\n\nDuring the regular season, each division held three 'fixtures', which saw each team in that division attend and participate in round robin games. In total, teams played 12 games each during the regular season, with a total of 36 games played in total. Based on the results of those fixtures, the teams were seeded for the QPL Championship, which all eight qualified for. The championship was decided with a series of double-elimination matches, with eliminated teams going on to contest the lower places of the standings.\n\nA total of six fixtures were held across the UK, split between the North and South Divisions.\n\nThe West Midlands Revolution won the 2017 QPL Championship, played at the KCOM Craven Park Stadium in Hull, ending the season with a perfect 16–0 record. They defeated the Southeast Knights 140*-70 in the final match. By winning the title, the West Midlands Revolution became the inaugural winners of the Quidditch Premier League.\n\nThe Championship format consisted of a double elimination bracket which was then split into upper and lower brackets, giving full placings from 1st to 8th. The latter stages of the upper bracket and lower bracket can be seen below.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8906091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8906091", "title": "Abrincatui", "text": "Abrincatui\n\nThe Abrincatui were a Gallic tribe (Plin. iv. 18), not mentioned by Julius Caesar, whose frontier was near the Curiosolites. Their town Ingena, called \"Abrincatae\" in the Notitia dignitatum, has given its name to the modern Avranches; and their territory would probably correspond to the division of Avranchin. The Abrincatui became a client tribe of the Venelli until the Roman occupation in BC 49, when they were separated.\n\n"}
{"id": "46222017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46222017", "title": "Air Dabia", "text": "Air Dabia\n\nAir Dabia was a short-lived Gambian airline which flew between 1996 and 1998; it had a three-ship fleet (one Boeing 747, notable as being the airframe involved in the United Airlines Flight 811 decompression incident, and two Boeing 727 aircraft). It was run by alleged fraudster Foutanga Babani Sissoko, whose conspicuous personal wealth had murky origins. In its short period of operation, there were allegations from numerous employees of excessive hours, improper rest provisions for crews (being expected to sleep on aircraft between trips) and pay discrepancies. In 2018, Sissoko was allegedly involved in bank fraud.\n\nIt transported pilgrims from Mali to Mecca, and Malian refugees from Brazzaville.\n\nThe 747, C5-FBS, was abandoned at Plattsburgh International Airport and scrapped in place. \n\n"}
{"id": "3229685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3229685", "title": "All-Workers Militant Front", "text": "All-Workers Militant Front\n\nThe All-Workers Militant Front (, ΠΑΜΕ, \"Panergatiko Agonistiko Metopo\", PAME) is a coordination centre within the Greek trade union movement, founded on the initiative of Communist Party of Greece trade-unionists in April 1999. Among its members are unionists coming from different political backgrounds. Founding members were also cadres of DIKKI and others. PAME is critical of the official positions and leadership of the General Confederation of Greek Workers. According to its website, the trade unions that are affiliated in PAME have 415,000 members in total as of 2005. As of June 2012, according to the Communist Party of Greece, PAME affiliated unions have 850,000 members. On November 2016 PAME held its 4th National Congress with 1200 national delegates representing 13 National Federations 14 Labour Centres 451 trade unions 52 Workers' Committees. PAME is internationally affiliated with the World Federation of Trade Unions since 2000.\n\n"}
{"id": "15826554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15826554", "title": "Apostolic Administration of Southern Albania", "text": "Apostolic Administration of Southern Albania\n\nThe Apostolic Administration of Southern Albania (, , Italian: \"Albania Meridionale\") is an apostolic administration of the Catholic Church in Albania, covering the southern regions of the country. It has jurisdiction over all Catholics on its territory, both of Latin and Byzantine rites. It is suffragan to the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Tiranë–Durrës. Its see is Pro-Cathedral of St. Mary and St. Louis () in Vlorë.\n\nIt is claimed that Apostolic Administration of Southern Albania constitutes the only component of the particular (\"sui juris\") Albanian Greek Catholic Church. Such claims have been questioned by some leading Eastern Catholic experts.\n\nOn November 11, 1939, the Holy See issued the papal bull \"Inter regiones\", establishing the \"Apostolic Administration of Southern Albania\". Initially, it was created as a regular apostolic administration, for all Catholics in southern regions of Albania, both of Latin and Byzantine rites. Its territory was detached from the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Durrës, and initially covered districts of Elbassan, Korca, Berat, Valona and Argyrocastro.\n\nSince January 25, 2005, it is suffragan to the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Tiranë-Durrës, within the newly created metropolitan province.\n\n\"(all Albanian Catholic) \n\n\n"}
{"id": "52469952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52469952", "title": "Apostolic Nunciature to Switzerland", "text": "Apostolic Nunciature to Switzerland\n\nThe Apostolic Nunciature to Switzerland is an ecclesiastical office of the Catholic Church in Switzerland. It is a diplomatic post of the Holy See, whose representative is called the Apostolic Nuncio, with the rank of an ambassador. The nunciature is located in the capital of Bern.\n"}
{"id": "25005114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25005114", "title": "Bingtuan Television", "text": "Bingtuan Television\n\nBingtuan Television (BTTV; ) is a provincial satellite television station in Xinjiang, China, administered by the Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps. Also known as Bingtuan Satellite Television (), it started its 24-hour satellitic broadcasting through Sinosat-3 on October 7, 2007.\n\nIts service covers Urumqi, the capital of Xinjiang, and many regions under the XPCC, and several other provinces in China. On July 1, 2008, Bingtuan Television was rendered meliorative, with the generality modified by concentrating on music programs, in an effort to become the top youth music channel in China. However, after the July 5 Urumqi riots, State Administration of Radio, Film, and Television demanded for BTTV to rectify its contents; BTTV had to cancel the previously planned entertainment-centered projects made by the specialized program production company based in Urumqi and Beijing, routinely rebroadcasting CCTV-1, the primary channel of China Central Television. BTTV only keep some of its original programs, sucu as the \"Bingtuan News\" and soap operas.\n\n"}
{"id": "26199368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26199368", "title": "Bishop of Victoria", "text": "Bishop of Victoria\n\nThe Bishop of Victoria, Hong Kong was (from 1849 to 1951) the Ordinary of a corporation sole including Hong Kong and South China that ministered to 20,000 Anglicans.\n \n"}
{"id": "10143754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10143754", "title": "Centre for Research and Development on Information Technology and Telecommunication (Albania)", "text": "Centre for Research and Development on Information Technology and Telecommunication (Albania)\n\nThe Centre for Research and Development on Information Technology and Telecommunication, formerly known as INIMA or Institute of Informatics and Applied Mathematics is a research institute on technology in Tirana, Albania, affiliated since 2007 with the Polytechnic University of Tirana. It was founded in 1986 on the basis of the Center of Computational Mathematics (QMLL). The latter former was founded in 1971, depending from Tirana University (UT) and, in 1973, when the Academy of Sciences of Albania was founded, became one of the scientific institutions the Academy was composed of.\n\nHaving some of the most prominent experts in informatics and applied mathematics, INIMA has played a prime hand role in all informatics developments in Albania, in introduction of modern methods and technologies in different domains of Albanian reality such as: economics, engineering, geology&mining, medicine and health care, farming, animal breeding, etc.; in the preparation of new specialists as well as in offering different scientific services, installation and maintenance of computer systems, etc.\n\nIn 2007, with a Council of Ministers decision (#146 dated 28 March 2007), INIMA was dissolved and restructured as part of the Polytechnic University of Tirana. INIMA was renamed to \"Centre for Research and Development on Information Technology and Telecommunication\" (after Council of Ministers' decision #824 dated 05.12.2007).\n"}
{"id": "35579443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35579443", "title": "Cholermus", "text": "Cholermus\n\nCholermues or Cholermus is a traditional dish from the Canton of Obwalden in Central Switzerland. It is a kind of pancake, or \"shredded, fried crepe\", that is typically eaten for supper.\n\nThis preparation should not be confused with Hollermus or Holdermus, which is an elderberry mash.\n\n"}
{"id": "22741243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22741243", "title": "Constitution of Yemen", "text": "Constitution of Yemen\n\nThe Constitution of Yemen was ratified by popular referendum on May 16, 1991. It defines the republic as an independent and sovereign Arab and Islamic country and establishes sharia, or Islamic law, as the basis of all laws. In February 2001, several amendments were passed by national referendum extending the presidential term to seven years and the parliamentary term to six years and increasing the size and authority of the Shura Council.\n\nDue to the 2011–2012 Yemeni revolution, President Abd Rabbuh Mansur Al-Hadi was expected to draft a new constitution in the 2012-2014 period. In January 2015, a committee had drafted a new constitution however both the GPC and Houthi members of the National Authority for Monitoring the Implementation of NDC Outcomes have refused to vote on this draft. This will most likely delay a planned referendum on the new constitution, and therefore the next presidential and parliamentary elections, which have been delayed until the referendum can go ahead.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10728133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10728133", "title": "Croatian Province of the Society of Jesus", "text": "Croatian Province of the Society of Jesus\n\nThe Croatian Province of the Society of Jesus () is a province of the Society of Jesus, or the Jesuits, of the Catholic Church which is active in Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Macedonia. \n\nThe Society of Jesus runs a faculty of philosophy at the University of Zagreb (separate from the main, secular faculty of philosophy) as well as the Student Catholic Centre within the Archdiocese of Zagreb. It has parishes in Rijeka and Zagreb. \n\nThe Province also maintains residences in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Ohrid, Macedonia where they provide religious education to seminarians in the local dioceses. \n\n"}
{"id": "4428586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4428586", "title": "Diocese of Argyll", "text": "Diocese of Argyll\n\nThe Diocese of Argyll was an ecclesiastical territory or diocese of Scotland in the Middle Ages. The Diocese was led by the Bishop of Argyll, and was based at Lismore.\n\nDuring the Scottish Reformation, the majority of the Scottish established church broke communion with the Pope. The establishment oscillated for a number of years over the question of whether to retain the order of bishops as leaders in the church, as the Church of England had done. Eventually the presbyterians, those who do not have bishops, became the majority of the establishment and the post-Reformation Church of Scotland. However, the Scottish Episcopal Church continued to appoint bishops for the ancient dioceses of Scotland. In 1688, the diocese was held with the Diocese of Ross because of a shortage of bishops in the Episcopal Church. This union often included the dioceses of Moray or Caithness through the 17th and 18th centuries. In 1819, the ancient Diocese of the Isles was added, and, in 1847, Alexander Ewing became the first Bishop of Argyll and the Isles. In 1878, the Roman Catholic Church founded a new diocese of the same name. Both the Episcopal and Catholic dioceses are now based in Oban.\n\n"}
{"id": "50913828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50913828", "title": "Edith Fanta", "text": "Edith Fanta\n\nEdith Susana Elisabeth Fanta was a Brazilian Antarctic researcher, best known for her work on preserving and protecting Antarctica.\n\nFanta was born in São Paulo, Brazil in 1943. She received her Masters (1970) and PhD (1972) degrees from the University of São Paulo in the field of Zoology.\n\nFanta undertook post-doctoral research at the Institute of Radiation and Environment in Munich, Germany (1974–76), and at the University of Bristol, UK. She then returned to Brazil to the Fisheries Institute at São Paulo State University, before taking on a professorship at the Federal University of Paraná State (UFPR) in the Center of Marine Studies in 1980. She later moved to the Department of Cell Biology at the UFPR.\n\nFanta was part of the Brazilian Antarctic programme for 25 years, since its inception in 1983. She became an international leader in the Antarctic science through her research on the behaviour, physiology and morphology of Antarctic fish, publishing 58 peer-reviewed papers. She represented Brazil in many international Antarctic fora, including in the Scientific Committee on Antarctic Research (SCAR) Biology/ Life Sciences Standing Scientific Group and in the Commission for the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources (CCAMLR) since 1992. For over ten years, she made valuable contributions from the early 1990s to the Antarctic Treaty System as member of the SCAR Group of Specialists on Environmental Affairs and Conservation. She also served as a member of the International Polar Year (IPY) Joint Committee and led a project as part of IPY (2007-2008). Her dedication to science-based conservation and management of Antarctic marine resources led to her election as Chair of the Scientific Committee of the Commission for the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources (CCAMLR) where she served from 2005 until her death in 2008.\n"}
{"id": "22315131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22315131", "title": "Elegia di Madonna Fiammetta", "text": "Elegia di Madonna Fiammetta\n\nElegia di Madonna Fiammetta, or The Elegy of Lady Fiammetta in English, is a novel by the Italian writer Giovanni Boccaccio, probably written between 1343 and 1344. Written in the form of a first-person confessional monologue, it describes the protagonist, Fiammetta's, passion for Panfilo, a Florentine merchant, and takes place in Naples. It has been characterised as the first psychological novel in Western literature. It consists of a prologue and nine chapters.\n\nLady Fiammetta recounts her tragic love affair with Panfilo, offering it as a warning to other women. Lady Fiammetta and Panfilo quickly fall in love and have an affair, only to have it end when Panfilo returns to Florence.\n\nAlthough he promises to return to Naples, she eventually realizes that he has another lover in Florence. The narrative revolves around Fiammetta's jealousy and despair caused by the affair, rather than the development of her relationship with Panfilo. She eventually considers suicide, but her nurse stops her. Her hopes in the end are bolstered by the news that Panfilo may be coming back to Naples after all.\n\nTwo translations of Boccaccio's \"Elegia\" have come out in recent years. The two translations differ in their principles of translation and their Italian texts. \"The Elegy of Madonna Fiammetta Sent by Her to Women in Love\", by Roberta L. Payne and Alexandra Hennessey Olsenhope, is aimed at a popular audience. The Mariangela Causa-Steindler and Thomas Mauch translation, \"The Elegy of Lady Fiammetta\", is more scholarly.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19389113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19389113", "title": "Gondwana", "text": "Gondwana\n\nGondwana (), or Gondwanaland, was a supercontinent that existed from the Neoproterozoic (about 550 million years ago) until the Carboniferous (about 320 million years ago). It was formed by the accretion of several cratons. Eventually, Gondwana became the largest piece of continental crust of the Paleozoic Era, covering an area of about . During the Carboniferous, it merged with Euramerica to form a larger supercontinent called Pangaea. Gondwana (and Pangaea) gradually broke up during the Mesozoic Era. The remnants of Gondwana make up about two-thirds of today's continental area, including South America, Africa, Antarctica, Australia, and the Indian Subcontinent.\n\nThe formation of Gondwana began   with the East African Orogeny – the collision of India and Madagascar with East Africa – and was completed with the overlapping Brasiliano and Kuunga orogenies – the collision of South America with Africa and the addition of Australia and Antarctica, respectively.\n\nThe continent of Gondwana was named by Austrian scientist Eduard Suess, after the Gondwana region of central India which is derived from Sanskrit for \"forest of the Gonds\". The name had been previously used in a geological context, first by H.B. Medlicott in 1872, from which the Gondwana sedimentary sequences (Permian-Triassic) are also described.\nThe term \"Gondwanaland\" is preferred by some scientists in order to make a clear distinction between the region and the supercontinent.\n\nThe assembly of Gondwana was a protracted process during the Neoproterozoic and Paleozoic, which however remains incompletely understood because of the lack of paleo-magnetic data. Several orogenies, collectively known as the Pan-African orogeny, led to the amalgamation of most of the continental fragments of a much older supercontinent, Rodinia. One of those orogenic belts, the Mozambique Belt, formed and was originally interpreted as the suture between East (India, Madagascar, Antarctica, and Australia) and West Gondwana (Africa and South America). Three orogenies were recognized during the 1990s: the East African Orogeny () and Kuunga orogeny (including the Malagasy Orogeny in southern Madagascar) () – the collision between East Gondwana and East Africa in two steps, and the Brasiliano orogeny () – the succesive collision between South American and African cratons.\n\nThe final stages of Gondwanan assembly overlapped with the opening of the Iapetus Ocean between Laurentia and western Gondwana. During this interval, the Cambrian explosion occurred.\nLaurentia was docked against the western shores of a united Gondwana for a short period near the Precambrian/Cambrian boundary, forming the short-lived and still disputed supercontinent Pannotia.\n\nThe Mozambique Ocean separated the Congo–Tanzania–Bangweulu Block of central Africa from Neoproterozoic India (India, the Antongil Block in far eastern Madagascar, the Seychelles, and the Napier and Rayner Complexes in East Antarctica). The Azania continent (much of central Madagascar, the Horn of Africa and parts of Yemen and Arabia) was an island in the Mozambique Ocean.\n\nThe Australia/Mawson continent was still separated from India, eastern Africa, and Kalahari by , when most of western Gondwana had already been amalgamated. By 550 Ma, India had reached its Gondwanan position, which initiated the Kuunga orogeny (also known as the Pinjarra orogeny). Meanwhile, on the other side of the newly forming Africa, Kalahari collided with Congo and Rio de la Plata which closed the Adamastor Ocean. 540–530 Ma, the closure of the Mozambique Ocean brought India next to Australia–East Antarctica, and both North and South China were located in proximity to Australia.\nAs the rest of Gondwana formed, a complex series of orogenic events assembled the eastern parts of Gondwana (eastern Africa, Arabian-Nubian Shield, Seychelles, Madagascar, India, Sri Lanka, East Antarctica, and Australia) . First the Arabian-Nubian Shield collided with eastern Africa (in the Kenya-Tanzania region) in the East African Orogeny . Then Australia and East Antarctica were merged with the remaining Gondwana in the Kuunga Orogeny.\n\nThe later Malagasy orogeny at about 550–515 Mya affected Madagascar, eastern East Africa and southern India. In it, Neoproterozoic India collided with the already combined Azania and Congo–Tanzania–Bangweulu Block, suturing along the Mozambique Belt.\n\nThe -long Terra Australis Orogen developed along Gondwana's western, southern, and eastern margins.\nProto-Gondwanan Cambrian arc belts from this margin have been found in eastern Australia, Tasmania, New Zealand, and Antarctica. Though these belts formed a continuous arc chain, the direction of subduction was different between the Australian-Tasmanian and New Zealand-Antarctica arc segments.\n\nA large number of terranes were accreted to Eurasia during Gondwana's existence but the Cambrian or Precambrian origin of many of these terranes remains uncertain. For example, some Palaeozoic terranes and microcontinents that now make up Central Asia, often called the \"Kazakh\" and \"Mongolian terranes\", were progressively amalgamated into the continent Kazakhstania in the Late Silurian. Whether these blocks originated on the shores of Gondwana is not known.\n\nIn the Early Palaeozoic the Armorican terrane, which today form large parts of France, was part of either Peri-Gondwana or core Gondwana; the Rheic Ocean closed in front of it and the Palaeo-Tethys Ocean opened behind it. Precambrian rocks from the Iberian Peninsula suggest it too probably formed part of core Gondwana before its detachment as an orocline in the Variscan orogeny close to the Carboniferous–Permian boundary.\n\nSouth-east Asia is made of Gondwanan and Cathaysian continental fragments that were assembled during the Mid-Palaeozoic and Cenozoic. This process can be divided into three phases of rifting along Gondwana's northern margin: firstly, in the Devonian, North and South China, together with Tarim and Quidam (north-western China) rifted, opening the Palaeo-Tethys behind them. These terranes accreted to Asia during Late Devonian and Permian. Secondly, in the Late Carboniferous to Early Permian, Cimmerian terranes opened Meso-Tethys Ocean; Sibumasu and Qiantang were added to south-east Asia during Late Permian and Early Jurassic. Thirdly, in the Late Triassic to Late Jurassic, Lhasa, West Burma, Woyla terranes opened the Neo-Tethys Ocean; Lhasa collided with Asia during the Early Cretaceous, and West Burma and Woyla during the Late Cretaceous.\n\nGondwana's long, northern margin had remained a mostly passive margin throughout the Palaeozoic. The Early Permian opening of the Neo-Tethys Ocean along this margin produced a long series of terranes, many of which were and still are being deformed in the Himalaya Orogeny. From Turkey to north-eastern India: the Taurides in southern Turkey; the Lesser Caucasus Terrane in Georgia; the Sanand, Alborz, and Lut terranes in Iran; the Mangysglak or Kopetdag Terrane in the Caspian Sea; the Afghan Terrane; the Karakorum Terrane in northern Pakistan; and the Lhasa and Qiangtang terranes in Tibet. The Permian–Triassic widening of the Neo-Tethys pushed all these terranes across the Equator and over to Eurasia.\n\nDuring the Neoproterozoic to Palaeozoic phase of the Terra Australis Orogen a series of terranes were rafted from the proto-Andean margin when the Iapteus Ocean opened, to be added back to Gondwana during the closure of that ocean. During the paleozoic somne blocks which helped to form parts of the Southern Cone of South America, include a piece transferred from Laurentia when the west edge of Gondwana scraped against southeast Laurentia in the Ordovician. This is the Cuyania or Precordillera terrane of the Famatinian orogeny in northwest Argentina which may have continued the line of the Appalachians southwards. Chilenia terrane accreted later against Cuyania. The collision of the Patagonian terrane with the southwestern Gondwanan occurred in the late Paleozoic. Subduction-related igneous rocks from beneath the North Patagonian Massif have been dated at 320–330 million years old, indicating that the subduction process initiated in the early Carboniferous.This was relatively short lived (lasting about 20 million years), and initial contact of the two landmasses occurred in the mid-Carboniferous, with broader collision during the early Permian. In the Devonian an island arc named Chaitenia accreted to Patagonia in what is now south-central Chile.\n\nGondwana and Laurasia formed the Pangaea supercontinent during the Carboniferous. Pangaea began to break up in the Mid-Jurassic when the Central Atlantic opened.\n\nIn the western end of Pangaea, the collision between Gondwana and Laurasia closed the Rheic and Palaeo-Tethys oceans. The obliquity of this closure resulted in the docking of some northern terranes in the Marathon, Ouachita, Alleghanian, and Variscan orogenies, respectively. Southern terranes, such as Chortis and Oaxaca, on the other hand, remained largely unaffected by the collision along the southern shores of Laurentia. Some Peri-Gondwanan terranes, such as Yucatán and Florida, were buffered from collisions by major promontories. Other terranes, such as Carolina and Meguma, were directly involved in the collision. The final collision resulted in the Variscan-Appalachian Mountains, stretching from present-day Mexico to southern Europe. Meanwhile, Baltica collided with Siberia and Kazakhstania which resulted in the Uralian orogeny and Laurasia. Pangaea was finally amalgamated in the Late Carboniferous-Early Permian, but the oblique forces continued until Pangaea began to rift in the Triassic.\n\nIn the eastern end collisions occurred slightly later. The North China, South China, and Indochina blocks rifted from Gondwana during the middle Paleozoic and opened the Proto-Tethys Ocean. North China docked with Mongolia and Siberia during the Carboniferous–Permian, followed by South China. The Cimmerian blocks then rifted from Gondwana to form the Palaeo-Thethys and Neo-Tethys oceans in the Late Carboniferous, and docked with Asia during the Triassic and Jurassic. Western Pangaea began to rift while the eastern end was still being assembled.\n\nThe formation of Pangaea and its mountains had a tremendous impact on global climate and sea levels, which resulted in glaciations and continent-wide sedimentation. In North America, the base of the Absaroka sequence coincides with the Alleghanian and Ouachita orogenies and are indicative of a large-scale change in the mode of deposition far away from the Pangaean orogenies. Ultimately, these changes contributed to the Permian–Triassic extinction event and left large deposits of hydrocarbons, coal, evaporite, and metals.\n\nThe break-up of Pangaea began with the Central Atlantic magmatic province (CAMP) between South America, Africa, North America, and Europe. CAMP covered more than seven million square kilometres over a few million years, reached its peak at , and coincided with the Triassic–Jurassic extinction event.\nThe reformed Gondwanan continent was not precisely the same as that which had existed before Pangaea formed; for example, most of Florida and southern Georgia and Alabama is underlain by rocks that were originally part of Gondwana, but this region stayed attached to North America when the Central Atlantic opened.\n\nAntarctica, the centre of the supercontinent, shared boundaries with all other Gondwana continents and the fragmentation of Gondwana propagated clockwise around it. The break-up was the result of one of the Earth's most extensive large igneous provinces , but the oldest magnetic anomalies between South America, Africa, and Antarctica are found in what is now the southern Weddell Sea where initial break-up occurred during the Jurassic .\n\nGondwana began to break up in the early Jurassic following the extensive and fast emplacement of the Karoo-Ferrar flood basalts . Before the Karoo plume initiated rifting between Africa and Antarctica, it separated a series of smaller continental blocks from Gondwana's southern, Proto-Pacific margin (along what is now the Transantarctic Mountains): the Antarctic Peninsula, Marie Byrd Land, Zealandia, and Thurston Island; the Falkland Islands and Ellsworth–Whitmore Mountains (in Antarctica) were rotated 90° in opposite directions; and South America south of the Gastre Fault (often referred to as Patagonia) was pushed westward. The history of the Africa-Antarctica break-up can be studied in great detail in the fracture zones and magnetic anomalies flanking the Southwest Indian Ridge.\n\nThe Madagascar block and the Mascarene Plateau, stretching from the Seychelles to Réunion, were broken off India; elements of this breakup nearly coincide with the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event. The India–Madagascar–Seychelles separations appear to coincide with the eruption of the Deccan basalts, whose eruption site may survive as the Réunion hotspot. The Seychelles and the Maldives are now separated by the Central Indian Ridge.\n\nDuring the initial break-up in the Early Jurassic a marine transgression swept over the Horn of Africa covering Triassic planation surfaces with sandstone, limestone, shale, marls and evaporites.\n\nEast Gondwana, comprising Antarctica, Madagascar, India, and Australia, began to separate from Africa. East Gondwana then began to break up when India moved northwest from Australia-Antarctica. The Indian Plate and the Australian Plate are now separated by the Capricorn Plate and its diffuse boundaries.\nDuring the opening of the Indian Ocean, the Kerguelen hotspot first formed the Kerguelen Plateau on the Antarctic Plate and then the Ninety East Ridge on the Indian Plate at . The Kerguelen Plateau and the Broken Ridge, the southern end of the Ninety East Ridge, are now separated by the Southeast Indian Ridge.\n\nSeparation between Australia and East Antarctica began with sea-floor spreading occurring . A shallow seaway developed over the South Tasman Rise during the Early Cenozoic and as oceanic crust started to separate the continents during the Eocene global ocean temperature dropped significantly.\nA dramatic shift from arc- to rift magmatism separated Zealandia, including New Zealand, the Campbell Plateau, Chatham Rise, Lord Howe Rise, Norfolk Ridge, and New Caledonia, from West Antarctica .\n\nThe opening of the South Atlantic Ocean divided West Gondwana (South America and Africa), but there is a considerable debate over the exact timing of this break-up. Rifting propagated from south to north along Triassic–Early Jurassic lineaments, but intra-continental rifts also began to develop within both continents in Jurassic–Cretaceous sedimentary basins; subdividing each continent into three sub-plates. Rifting began at Falkland latitudes, forcing Patagonia to move relative to the still static remainder of South America and Africa, and this westward movement lasted until the Early Cretaceous . From there rifting propagated northward during the Late Jurassic or Early Cretaceous most likely forcing dextral movements between sub-plates on either side. South of the Walvis Ridge and Rio Grande Rise the Paraná and Etendeka magmatics resulted in further ocean-floor spreading and the development of rifts systems on both continents, including the Central African Rift System and the Central African Shear Zone which lasted until . At Brazilian latitudes spreading is more difficult to assess because of the lack of palaeo-magnetic data, but rifting occurred in Nigeria at the Benue Trough . North of the Equator the rifting began after and continued until .\n\nThe first phases of Andean orogeny in the Jurassic and Early Cretaceous were characterized by extensional tectonics, rifting, the development of back-arc basins and the emplacement of large batholiths. This development is presumed to have been linked to the subduction of cold oceanic lithosphere. During the mid to Late Cretaceous (ca. 90 million years ago) the Andean orogeny changed significantly in character. Warmer and younger oceanic lithosphere is believed to have started to be subducted beneath South America around this time. Such kind of subduction is held responsible not only for the intense contractional deformation that different lithologies were subject to, but also the uplift and erosion known to have occurred from the Late Cretaceous onward. Plate tectonic reorganization since the mid-Cretaceous might also have been linked to the opening of the South Atlantic Ocean. Another change related to mid-Cretaceous plate tectonic changes was the change of subduction direction of the oceanic lithosphere that went from having south-east motion to having a north-east motion at about 90 million years ago. While subduction direction changed it remained oblique (and not perpendicular) to the coast of South America, and the direction change affected several subduction zone-parallel faults including Atacama, Domeyko and Liquiñe-Ofqui.\n\nThe Indian subcontinent began to collide with Asia since when more than of crust has been absorbed by the Himalayan-Tibetan orogen. During the Cenozoic the orogen resulted in the construction of the Tibetan Plateau between the Tethyan Himalayas in the south and the Kunlun and Qilian mountains in the north.\n\nLater, South America was connected to North America via the Isthmus of Panama, cutting off a circulation of warm water and thereby making the Arctic colder, as well as allowing the Great American Interchange.\n\nThe breakup of Gondwana can be said to continue in eastern Africa at the Afar Triple Junction, which separates the Arabian, Nubian, and Somali plates, resulting in rifting in the Red Sea and East African Rift.\n\nIn the Early Cenozoic Australia was still connected to Antarctica 35–40° south of its current location and both continents were largely unglaciated. A rift between the two developed but remained an embayment until the Eocene-Oligocene boundary when the Circumpolar Current developed and the glaciation of Antarctica began.\n\nAustralia was warm and wet during the Palaeocene and dominated by rainforest. The opening of the Tasman Gateway at the Eocene-Oligocene boundary () resulted in abrupt cooling but the Oligocene became a period of high rainfall with swamps in southeast Australia. During the Miocene a warm and humid climate developed with pockets of rainforests in central Australia but before the end of the period colder and drier climate severely reduced this rainforest. A brief period of increased rainfall in the Pliocene was followed by drier climate which favoured grassland. Since then the fluctuation between wet interglacial periods and dry glacial periods has developed into the present arid regime. Australia has thus experienced various climate changes over a 15 million year period with a gradual decrease in precipitation.\n\nThe Tasman Gateway between Australia and Antarctica began to open . Palaeontological evidences indicate the Antarctic Circumpolar Current (ACC) was established in the Late Oligocene with the full opening of the Drake Passage and the deepening of the Tasman Gateway. The oldest oceanic crust in the Drake Passage, however, is -old which indicates spreading between the Antarctic and South American plates began near the Eocene/Oligocene boundary.\nDeep sea environments in Tierra del Fuego and the North Scotia Ridge during the Eocene and Oligocene indicate a \"Proto-ACC\" opened during this period. Later, , a series of events severally restricted the Proto-ACC: change to shallow marine conditions along the North Scotia Ridge; closure of the Fuegan Seaway, the deep sea that existed in Tierra del Fuego; and uplift of the Patagonian Cordillera. This, together with the reactivated Iceland plume, contributed to global warming. During the Miocene, the Drake Passage began to widen and as water flow between South America and the Antarctic Peninsula increased, the renewed ACC resulted in cooler global climate.\n\nSince the Eocene the northward movement of the Australian Plate has resulted in an arc-continent collision with the Philippine and Caroline plates and the uplift of the New Guinea Highlands. From the Oligocene to the late Miocene, the climate in Australia, dominated by warm and humid rainforests before this collision, began to alternate between open forest and rainforest before the continent became the arid or semiarid landscape it is today.\n\nThe adjective \"Gondwanan\" is in common use in biogeography when referring to patterns of distribution of living organisms, typically when the organisms are restricted to two or more of the now-discontinuous regions that were once part of Gondwana, including the Antarctic flora. For example, the plant family Proteaceae, known from all continents in the Southern Hemisphere, has a \"Gondwanan distribution\" and is often described as an archaic, or relict, lineage. The distributions in Proteaceae is, nevertheless, the result of both Gondwanan rafting and later oceanic dispersal.\n\nDuring the Silurian Gondwana extended from the Equator (Australia) to the South Pole (North Africa and South America) whilst Laurasia was located on the Equator opposite to Australia. A short-lived Late Ordovician glaciation was followed by a Silurian Hot House period.\nThe End-Ordovician extinction, which resulted in 27% of marine invertebrate families and 57% of genera going extinct, occurred during this shift from Ice House to Hot House.\nBy the end of the Ordovician \"Cooksonia\", a slender, ground-covering plant, became the first vascular plant to establish itself on land. This first colonisation occurred exclusively around the Equator on landmasses then limited to Laurasia and, in Gondwana, to Australia. In the Late Silurian two distinctive linages, zosterophylls and rhyniophytes, had colonised the tropics. The former evolved into the lycopods, that were to dominate the Gondwanan vegetation over a long period, whilst the latter evolved into horsetails and gymnosperms. Most of Gondwana was located far from the Equator during this period and remained a lifeless and barren landscape.\n\nWest Gondwana drifted north during the Devonian which brought Gondwana and Laurasia close together. Global cooling contributed to the Late Devonian extinction (19% of marine families and 50% of genera went extinct) and glaciation occurred in South America. Before Pangaea had formed terrestrial plants, such as pteridophytes, began to diversify rapidly resulting in the colonisation of Gondwana. The Baragwanathia Flora, found only in the Yea Beds of Victoria, Australia, occurs in two strata separated by or 30 Ma; the upper assemblage is more diverse and includes Baragwanathia, the first primitive herbaceous lycopod to evolve from the zosterophylls. During the Devonian giant club mosses replaced the Baragwanathia Flora, introducing the first trees, and by the Late Devonian this first forest was accompanied by the progymnosperms, including the first large trees \"Archaeopteris\".\nThe Late Devonian extinction probably also resulted in osteolepiform fishes evolving into the amphibian tetrapods, the earliest land vertebrates, in Greenland and Russia. The only traces of this evolution in Gondwana are amphibian footprints and a single jaw from Australia.\n\nThe closure of the Rheic Ocean and the formation of Pangaea in the Carboniferous resulted in the rerouting of ocean currents which initiated an Ice House period. As Gondwana began to rotate clockwise, Australia shifted south to more temperate latitudes. An ice cap initially covered most of southern Africa and South America but began to spread to eventually cover most of the supercontinent, save for northern-most Africa-South America and eastern Australia. Giant lycopod and horsetail forests continued to evolve in tropical Laurasia together with a diversified assemblage of true insects. In Gondwana, in contrast, ice and, in Australia, volcanism decimated the Devonian flora to a low-diversity seed fern flora – the pteridophytes were increasingly replaced by the gymnosperms which were to dominate until the Mid-Cretaceous. Australia, however, was still located near the Equator during the Early Carboniferous and during this period temnospondyl and lepospondyl amphibians and the first amniote reptilians evolved, all closely related to the Laurasian fauna, but spreading ice eventually drove these animals away from Gondwana entirely.\n\nThe Gondwana ice sheet melted and sea levels dropped during the Permian and Triassic global warming. During this period, the extinct glossopterids colonised Gondwana and reached peak diversity in the Late Permian when coal-forming forests covered much of Gondwana. The period also saw the evolution of Voltziales; one of the few plant orders to survive the end-Permian extinction (57% of marine families and 83% of genera went extinct) which came to dominate in the Late Permian and from whom true conifers evolved. Tall lycopods and horsetails dominated the wetlands of Gondwana in the Early Permian.\nInsects co-evolved with glossopterids across Gondwana and diversified with more than 200 species in 21 orders by the Late Permian, many known from South Africa and Australia. Beetles and cockroaches remained minor elements in this fauna. Tetrapod fossils from the Early Permian have only been found in Laurasia but they became common in Gondwana later during the Permian. The arrival of the therapsids resulted in the first plant-vertebrate-insect ecosystem.\n\nDuring the Mid- to Late Triassic hot house conditions coincided with a peak in biodiversity — the end-Permian extinction was enormous and so was the radiation that followed. Two families of conifers, Podocarpaceae and Araucariaceae, dominated Gondwana in the Early Triassic, but \"Dicroidium\", an extinct genus of fork-leaved seed ferns, dominated woodlands and forests of Gondwana during most of the Triassic. Conifers evolved and radiated during the period with six of eight extant families already present before the end of it. Bennettitales and Pentoxylales, two now extinct orders of gymnospermous plants, evolved in the Late Triassic and became important in the Jurassic and Cretaceous. It is possible that gymnosperm biodiversity surpassed later angiosperm biodiversity and that the evolution of angiosperms began during the Triassic but, if so, in Laurasia rather than in Gondwana. Two Gondwanan classes, lycophytes and sphenophytes, saw a gradual decline during the Triassic while ferns, though never dominant, managed to diversify.\n\nThe brief ice house of the Triassic–Jurassic extinction event had a dramatic impact on dinosaurs but left plants largely unaffected. The Jurassic was mostly a hot house and while vertebrates managed to diversify in this environment, plants have left little evidence of such development, with the exception of Cheiroleidiacean conifers and Caytoniales and other groups of seed ferns. In terms of biomass the Jurassic flora was dominated by conifers families and other gymnosperms that had evolved during the Triassic. The Pteridophytes, that had dominated during the Palaeozoic, were now marginalised, except for ferns. In contrast to Laurentia, very few insect fossils have been found in Gondwana to a large extent because of widespread deserts and volcanism. While plants had a cosmopolitan distribution, dinosaur evolved and diversified in a pattern that reflects the Jurassic break-up of Panagaea.\n\nThe Cretaceous saw the arrival of the angiosperms, or flowering plants, a group that probably evolved in western Gondwana (South America-Africa). From there the angiosperms diversified in two stages: the monocots and magnoliids evolved in the Early Cretaceous followed by the hammamelid dicots. By the Mid-Cretaceous angiosperms constituted half of the flora in northeastern Australia. There is, however, no obvious connection between this spectacular angiosperm radiation and an extinction event nor vertebrate/insect evolution. Insect orders associated with pollination, such as beetles, flies, butterflies and moths, and wasps, bees, and ants, radiated continuously from the Permian-Triassic long before the arrival of the angiosperms. Well-preserved insect fossils have been found in the lake deposits of the Santana Formation in Brazil, the Koonwarra Lake fauna in Australia, and the Orapa diamond mine in Botswana.\nDinosaurs continued to prosper but, as the angiosperm diversified, conifers, bennettitaleans and pentoxylaleans disappeared from Gondwana 115 Ma together with the specialised herbivorous ornithischians whilst generalist browsers such as several families of sauropodomorph Saurischia prevailed. The Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event killed off all dinosaurs except birds, but plant evolution in Gondwana was hardly affected by the event.\nGondwanatheria is an extinct group of non-therian mammals with a Gondwanan distribution (South America, Africa, Madagascar, India, and Antarctica) during the Late Cretaceous and Palaeogene. Xenarthra and Afrotheria, two placental clades, are of Gondwanan origin and probably began to evolve separately when Africa and South America separated.\nThe laurel forest of Australia, New Caledonia, and New Zealand have a number of other related species of the laurissilva de Valdivia, through the connection of the Antarctic flora as gymnosperms and deciduous angiosperm\" Nothofagus\". \"Corynocarpus laevigatus\" is called the bay of New Zealand, \"Laurelia novae-zelandiae\" belongs to the same genus \"Laurelia\". The sempervirens tree niaouli grows in Australia, New Caledonia, and New Zealand. New Caledonia and New Zealand ecoregions became separated from Australia by continental drift 85 million years ago. The islands still retain plants that originated in Gondwana and spread to the Southern Hemisphere continents later. However, strong evidence exists of glaciation during the Carboniferous to Permian time, especially in South Africa.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2099857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2099857", "title": "Grovii", "text": "Grovii\n\nThe Grovii were an ancient tribe in Coastal Northern Portugal, in the province of Minho and spreading into modern day Galicia (Spain). The Grovii dwelt in the coast near the rivers \"Avo\" (the Ave river), Celadus, Nebis, Minius and the Oblivion. The Laeros and the Ulla rivers where in the North reach of this people.\n\nIts main god was Turiacus, unlike the nearby Castro culture tribes, whose main deity was Cosus. Pomponius Mela stated that all the populi were Celtic, excepting for the Grovii. Pliny also rejected that the Grovii were Celtic, he considered them to have a Greek origin. They cooperated with the local Gallaeci tribes as seen in the aftermatch of Viriatus death. These with the Callacian tribes and following Celtic ways, with their women, wanted revenge from the death of Viriatus. They attacked the Roman settlements in Lusitania, gaining momentum with the support of other tribes along the way, reaching the south of the Peninsula, near modern Andalusia. Endangering Roman rule in large stretches of Hispania. The leading Gallaeci cities of Avobriga and Lambriaca were located near the Grovii lands.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21902296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21902296", "title": "Houthem Formation", "text": "Houthem Formation\n\nThe Houthem Formation, named after the Dutch town of Houthem, is a geological formation that crops out in the south of Belgian and Dutch Limburg. It has also been found in borings in the northeastern part of the Campine Basin. The formation consists of calcareous sandstone and was formed about 60 million years ago, in the Paleocene epoch.\n\nThe Houthem Formation consists of maximally 30 metres of light grey to light yellow calcareous arenites. The arenite can contain calcareous concretions, fossils and hardgrounds with shell fragments. At other places lenses of boundstone occur, formed by red algae. \n\nThe hardgrounds make it possible to subdivide the formation into three members: the Geleen Member, the Bunde Member and the Geulhem Member.\n\nDutch stratigraphers see the Houthem Formation as the youngest formation of the Chalk Group, because it has a similar lithology with the older formations in this group. Belgian stratigraphers see it as part of the Hesbaye Group, which contains Paleocene formations.\n\nThe base of the Houthem Formation is in the Vroenhoven Horizon, probably the Dutch and Belgian equivalent of the Cretaceous–Paleogene boundary (K–T boundary). Below the Houthem Formation is the Late Cretaceous Maastricht Formation. In the Campine Basin the Houthem Formation is overlain by the Paleocene Opglabbeek Formation (clay and sand) and the Heers Formation (marl).\n\n"}
{"id": "2744228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2744228", "title": "Høgnorsk", "text": "Høgnorsk\n\nHøgnorsk, meaning \"High Norwegian\", is a term for varieties of the Norwegian language form Nynorsk that reject most of the official reforms that have been introduced since the creation of Landsmål. Høgnorsk typically accepts the initial reforms that, among other things, removed certain silent letters of etymological origin, while keeping most of the Landsmål grammar intact.\n\nProfessor Torleiv Hannaas is often credited for introducing the term 'Høgnorsk' in an article in 1922. He used it analogously to High German (\"Hochdeutsch\"), pointing out that Ivar Aasen, the creator of Nynorsk orthography, had especially valued the dialects of the mountainous areas of middle and western Norway, as opposed to the dialects of the lowlands of eastern Norway, which Hannaas called \"flatnorsk\" (Flat Norwegian, like \"Plattdeutsch\"). \n\nThe written High Norwegian language is a tradition originating from the first version of the New Norwegian written language (then called Landsmål), as it was built by Ivar Aasen and later used by classical New Norwegian authors as Aasmund Olavsson Vinje, Arne Garborg, Olav Nygard and Olav H. Hauge.\n\nThe Høgnorsk movement grew out of opposition to the official Samnorsk policy which aimed at leveling out the differences between Nynorsk and the other main variety of Norwegian language, Bokmål. Reforms to this end were carried through in 1938 and 1959. Initially there was considerable resistance against these reforms, but the resulting standard is now widely accepted. Høgnorsk is currently supported by Ivar Aasen-sambandet and the activists behind Målmannen, but has relatively few active users.\n\nThe basis for the High Norwegian language direction, is a wish to preserve the New Norwegian written language as an independent language, free of the strong influence from Bokmål that today's New Norwegian has.\n\n"}
{"id": "40361186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40361186", "title": "Kabbe South", "text": "Kabbe South\n\nKabbe South is the easternmost of the eight electoral constituencies of Zambezi Region of Namibia. It was created in August 2013 from the eastern part of Kabbe Constituency, following a recommendation of the \"Fourth Delimitation Commission of Namibia\", and in preparation of the 2014 general election. The administrative centre of Kabbe South is the settlement of Nakabolelwa.\n\nThe 2015 regional election was won by Musialela John Likando of the SWAPO Party with 1,189 votes, followed by Bernard Kamwi Shamwazi of the Democratic Turnhalle Alliance (DTA) with 46 votes.\n\n"}
{"id": "50606145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50606145", "title": "Khatan-Bator", "text": "Khatan-Bator\n\nKhatan-Bator is a two-part Mongolian language biopic film based on the life of Khatanbaatar Magsarjav. Khatanbaatar was a Mongolian General who overthrew the Manchurian Forces in Mongolia led by the Amban Chinese occupation of Urga. The film was directed by Jigjidsuren Gombojav and produced by Mongol Kino. It was submitted to the 12th Moscow International Film Festival.\n\nStory is based in the life of Khatanbaatar Magsarjav, a Mongolian general and a leading figure in Mongolia's struggle for independence. His contingent of 800 elite Mongol soldiers fought White Russian and Chinese forces over 30 times between 1912 and 1921, without a single defeat. He served as acting prime minister from February 15, 1921 to March 13, 1921, under Roman Ungern von Sternberg's puppet regime and later fought the baron forces.\n\nDirector: G.Jigjidsuren\n\nPhotographer: L. Sharavdorj, G.Tseren\n\nAuthor: S.Udval, G.Jigjidsuren\n\nComposer: Z.Hangal\n\nSongwriter - B.Sambuu\n\nScreenplay - D.Badamtseren\n\nWriters - D.Tumenbayar, D.Didid, T.Narantsetseg\n\nCameo roles\n"}
{"id": "36064532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36064532", "title": "Komandosi", "text": "Komandosi\n\nThe Komandosi (\"The Commandos\") was a name used for a group of left wing Polish students in the late 1960s and early 1970s. The group included prominent dissident students such as \nSeweryn Blumsztajn, Teresa Bogucka, Jan Gross, Irena Grudzińska, Irena Lasota, Jan Lityński, Adam Michnik, Henryk Szlajfer, Barbara Toruńczyk, and more. Also, with the time passing, some young academic instructors were included, e.g. Jakub Karpiński, Jadwiga Staniszkis, Andrzej Zabłudowski, ...\n\nThe group came into existence at the time when somewhat older dissidents, Jacek Kuroń and Karol Modzelewski were in prison. Once these two were released, they became again something of guides for the rebellious students, and the two were considered \"Komandosi\" too (in a somewhat wider sense).\n\nThe name was popular due to the way in which the students interfered and came to control classroom discussions at University of Warsaw on topics which were politically charged from the point of view of standard communist propaganda of the era. The name was introduced however by an academic instructor who actively opposed the dissident students (as explained at court by Severyn Blumsztajn during a post-March68 trial of Seweryn Blumsztain and Jan Lityński)--ironically, the name was meant to sound derogatory.\n\nDuring the March '68 events many of the members of the group were arrested and tried on trumped up charges by the communist authorities. Michnik was sentenced to three years in prison, Kuroń three and a half, Lityński to two and a half, Blumsztajn to two, ...\n"}
{"id": "4669537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4669537", "title": "Kopytka", "text": "Kopytka\n\nKopytka, kapytki (literally \"little hooves\") are a kind of potato dumpling in Polish, Belarusian, and Lithuanian cuisines. They are similar to Italian gnocchi and German Schupfnudel.\n\nThe typical ingredients are boiled potatoes and flour, but may also include eggs, salt, and other seasoning. The Polish dish is usually cooked in salted water, whereas in Belarusian and Lithuanian cuisines kapytki is baked first, then stewed or boiled in water.\n\nKopytka can be either a main dish or served on the side. Kopytka can be served savoury (baked with cheese, fried bacon, fried onion, or with a variety of sauces such as goulash or mushroom sauce); they can also be served sweet (with melted butter and sugar, cinnamon, or sweetened quark), or sugar with sour cream.\n\nThe word \"kopytka\" [\"kopyto\" \"hoof\", \"kopytko\" \"little hoof\", neuter singular nouns] is Polish for \"little hooves,\" such as those of a small hoofed animal (for example, a goat). \"Kapytki\" is the Belarusian word for the same concept. Both refer to the structure of these dumplings, which are formed in the shape of hooves.\n"}
{"id": "34350164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34350164", "title": "Liechtenstein general election, 1962", "text": "Liechtenstein general election, 1962\n\nGeneral elections were held in Liechtenstein on 25 March 1962. The Progressive Citizens' Party won eight of the 15 seats in the Landtag, but remained in coalition with the Patriotic Union. This was the first election contested by the Christian Social Party.\n"}
{"id": "27833867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27833867", "title": "Mees, kes teadis ussisõnu", "text": "Mees, kes teadis ussisõnu\n\nIt is set in an imaginary Estonia during the Middle Ages.\n\nThe French translation was awarded the Grand Prix de l'Imaginaire for the best foreign-language novel in 2014.\n\nThe protagonist is Leemet, an Estonian who is part of a diminishing group of forest-dwellers, upholding ancient traditions and speaking the ancient \"snake-tongue\" which lets them control animals and speak with snakes.\n"}
{"id": "7652659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7652659", "title": "Moldova 1", "text": "Moldova 1\n\nMoldova 1 is the national Moldovan television channel, operated by the national public broadcaster, TeleRadio-Moldova.\n\nMoldova 1 was launched on 30 April 1958, at 7:00 pm.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19855149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19855149", "title": "Moox Live", "text": "Moox Live\n\nMoox Live was a Norwegian television channel in 2006–2007 with user-generated content. The viewers could vote for music videos, watch interviews with celebrities and discuss topics such as movies, fashion, celebrities, sex and love. It was taken off the air after less than one year.\n\n"}
{"id": "2419796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2419796", "title": "Movement for the Rehabilitation of Citizens – Rurenzangemero", "text": "Movement for the Rehabilitation of Citizens – Rurenzangemero\n\nThe Movement for the Rehabilitation of Citizens–Rurenzangemero (, MRC–Rurenzangemero) is a political party in Burundi. It is currently led by Epitace Banyaganakandi.\n\nThe party was established in 2002, drawing most of its support from the ethnic Tutsi minority. It received 2% of the vote in the 2005 parliamentary elections, winning two seats. It subsequently joined the government, taking the Social Security and Public Service ministerial portfolios.\n\nThe party boycotted the 2010 parliamentary elections but participated in the 2015 Burundian parliamentary election.\n"}
{"id": "44970184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44970184", "title": "National GPS Network", "text": "National GPS Network\n\nThe British National GPS Network, known as OS Net, is a network of global navigation satellite system GNSS base stations covering Great Britain. It is managed by Ordnance Survey.\n\nIt provides access to a stable, national coordinate reference system (through downloaded GNSS data) that allows highly accurate location to be determined using suitable equipment, and is used in surveying, construction and precision agriculture industries, among other uses. The use of ground-based stations makes this system more accurate than satellite based GPS systems.\n\nUsing a single receiver, without any additional corrections, a civilian user can achieve a positional accuracy equal to 5 m – 10 m 95% of the time, and a height accuracy of 15 m – 20 m 95% of the time. Combined with data or corrections from a service such as OS Net, a positional accuracy of 1 – 2 cm is achievable, depending on the equipment used and environmental factors.\n"}
{"id": "2013255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013255", "title": "National Unity Party (Northern Cyprus)", "text": "National Unity Party (Northern Cyprus)\n\nThe National Unity Party (, UBP) is a nationalist and conservative political party in Northern Cyprus. It was founded by Rauf Denktaş on 11 October 1975. The party was in power from its creation until the 2003 elections with the exception of the period from 1994–1996.\n\nIn the 2009 legislative elections for the House of Representatives of Northern Cyprus the party won 44% of the popular vote and 26 out of 50 seats, forming a majority government. Its candidate, former Prime Minister Derviş Eroğlu amassed at the Northern Cyprus presidential elections (of 17 April 2005) 22.8% of the votes.\n\nFrom 2016 until elections in early 2018, the party was the senior partner in a minority government with the Democratic Party, with its leader Hüseyin Özgürgün serving as Prime Minister. It had previously been a junior partner in a coalition with the Republican Turkish Party, preceded by a period as the opposition party between 2013 and 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49839761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49839761", "title": "No. 24 Squadron RSAF", "text": "No. 24 Squadron RSAF\n\nNo. 24 Squadron RSAF is a squadron of the Royal Saudi Air Force that operates the Airbus A330 MRTT from Prince Sultan Air Base, Al-Kharj.\n"}
{"id": "56680718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56680718", "title": "Oleksiy Kucherenko", "text": "Oleksiy Kucherenko\n\nOleksiy Yuriyovych Kucherenko () (born April 3, 1961 in Vinnytsia) is a Ukrainian politician. He was Minister of Housing and Communal Services from 2007 to 2010. Kucherenko previously served as Governor of Zaporizhzhia Oblast from 2000 to 2001. Member of Ukrainian parliament (Verkhovna Rada) of III, V, VI convocation. He is a Candidate of Sciences (Ph.D) in sociological sciences.\n\n"}
{"id": "9958119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9958119", "title": "Petrol Group", "text": "Petrol Group\n\nPetrol Group is a Slovenian oil distributing company, which is one of the largest in Slovenia and the former Yugoslavia and controls 520 petrol stations of which there are:\n\nThe company was established in April 1947 as Jugopetrol Ljubljana, and renamed to Petrol in 1953.\n\nIn 2010, the Petrol Group acquired Croatian gas company Jadranplin, which focuses on gas storage and selling of liquefied petroleum gas.\n"}
{"id": "4916008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4916008", "title": "Pirate television", "text": "Pirate television\n\nA pirate television station is a broadcast television station that operates without a broadcast license. Like its counterpart pirate radio, the term pirate TV lacks a specific universal interpretation. It implies a form of broadcasting that is unwelcome by the licensing authorities within the territory where its signals are received, especially when the country of transmission is the same as the country of reception. When the area of transmission is not a country, or when it is a country and the transmissions are not illegal, those same broadcast signals may be deemed illegal in the country of reception. Therefore, \"pirate TV\" can mean many things to many people. Pirate television stations may also be known as \"bootleg TV\", or confused with licensed low-power broadcasting (LPTV) or amateur television ATV services.\n\nPirate Television stations are not as abundant in the United States or UK as pirate radio stations are. Only since 2004 has the technology for pirate television stations become easier to obtain and construct, due to advances in technologies and the availability of equipment.\n\nThe first pirate TV station in the US was Lanesville TV, launched in 1972, the broadcast station of video pioneers, the Videofreex.\n\nIn April 1978, a weekend broadcast on Channel 7 in Syracuse, NY called \"Lucky 7\" captured headlines across the nation. \"Lucky 7\" broadcast episodes of \"Star Trek\" and the pornographic movie \"Deep Throat\" and Behind the Green Door. The source of the transmission was not identified, but it was speculated in an article in the \"New York Times\" that the signal may have been transmitted from the area of Syracuse University, as the signal was strongest in that area.\n\nThere are several techniques for pirate TV broadcasting, most of which have been made very difficult, or obsolete, by better security measures and the move to digital television.\n\nMany analogue relay transmitters would \"listen\" to a more powerful main transmitter and relay the signal verbatim. If the main transmitter ceases broadcasting (for example, if a channel closes down overnight) then a pirate signal on the same frequency as the main transmitter could cause the relay to \"wake up\" and relay unauthorized programming instead. Typically this would be done by outputting a very weak RF signal within the immediate vicinity of the relay: for example, a video cassette recorder (such as a 12v system designed for use in trucks) sending its signal to a home-made antenna pointed at the relay. As the pirate signal is relatively weak, the source can be difficult to locate if it is well hidden.\n\nA significant benefit of this attack is that the potential viewers do not have to re-tune their televisions to view the content. The content simply appears on an existing channel, after close-down.\n\nThis attack is generally now prevented by the channels broadcasting 24 hours per day (e.g. showing test cards instead of closing down), by using satellite feeds instead of repeating terrestrial signals, by electronic security to lock the relay to the authorised source, or by the switch to digital television.\n\nUnsecured analogue satellite transponders have also been reported to have been hijacked in a similar manner.\n\nIn this scenario, a man-in-the-middle attack is performed upon the source material, such that authorized official transmissions are fed with unauthorized programming from the central studio or play-out facility. For example, a link feed (e.g. outside broadcast) is hijacked by a stronger pirate signal, or pre-recorded media (such as videotapes or hard drives) are swapped over for unauthorised content. This attack would generally have to be performed by an insider or by gaining access to studio facilities by social engineering.\n\nAs with most pirate radio stations, reasonably powerful VHF/UHF transmitters can be built relatively easily by any sufficiently experienced electronics hobbyist, or imported from a less strict country. The primary challenge to this technique is finding a suitable yet inconspicuous vantage point for the transmission antenna, and the risk of getting caught. If the pirate signal is strong enough to be received directly, it will also be strong enough to be tracked down.\n\nThe advent of digital television makes pirate television broadcasting more difficult. Channels are broadcast as part of a multiplex that carries several channels in one signal, and it is almost impossible to insert an unauthorized channel into an authorized multiplex, or to re-activate an off-air channel. In order to broadcast an unauthorized digital TV channel, not only must the perpetrator build or obtain a VHF/UHF transmitter, he must also build or obtain, and configure, the equipment and software to digitally encode the signal and then create a stand-alone multiplex to carry it.\n\nIn Spain, in major provincial capital cities, usually operates one or more than one pirate TV digital multiplex. Some multiplexes started to operate after digital switch-over migrating pirate channels from analogue pirate television to DVB-T digital multiplexes.\n\nSince shortly after digital switch-over and still today in secondary cities, some channels broadcast by means of a DVB-T transmitter with four analog input sources (in this case, four tuned satellite receivers connected by composite video cable) and then to amplifier, and digital signal is feed to antenna or tower. This method is the one used by most pirate TV channels. However, over the years and due to economic returns, some have begun broadcasting almost professionally. New equipment that they have been installing since three years ago allows remultiplexing of DVB-S programs into DVB-T multiplexes and most parameters can be configured at will.\n\nSince 2010, its number has been increasing in Madrid and in Valencia, for example, and, as of March 2016, there are more than ten DVB-T pirate multiplex in Madrid metropolitan area transmitting without authorization with programming ranging from divinatory, esoteric and occult tarot or fundamentalist Christian to community television (which isn't regulated in Spain as of 2016).\n\nIn other countries, there are reports of pirate TV digital multiplexes, but they are very rare and usually suspected to have been false reports, mistaking overspill from authorized multiplexes in neighboring regions or nearby foreign countries. Viewing numbers may be much smaller than analogue pirate TV since re-tuning a digital television may be an entirely automated process which may ignore unauthorized multiplexes, or place such channels in an obscure section of the electronic program guide.\n\n\nDuring the 1980s, large numbers of pirate TV stations operated in Italy, Greece, Spain and Israel. Subsequent legislation lead to the licensing of many of these stations and the closure of (most of) the remainder.\n\n\nMovies often show Pirate TV channels simply \"breaking in\" over the top of existing channels, often all of them simultaneously.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41996912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41996912", "title": "Podge Doran", "text": "Podge Doran\n\nPaudie \"Podge\" Doran (born 10 August 1992) is an Irish hurler who plays as a right corner-forward for the Wexford senior team.\n\nDoran enjoyed playing for both grades since he made his debut in 2009 but the years proved little success as he was faced by defeats in the hands of Kilkenny and Dublin.\n\nDoran made his senior debut on June 8, 2013 in the Leinster Quarter-Final against Dublin at a very sunny soaked Wexford Park as a sub with the game being quite one sided during the first period the game ended level.\nThe replay was played in Parnell Park the weekend after but proved little success for Doran and Wexford as they suffered a defeat.\n"}
{"id": "54011053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54011053", "title": "Polibek (Petřín)", "text": "Polibek (Petřín)\n\nPolibek (\"Kiss\") is a protected statue by Josef Mařatka, installed on the hill of Petřín in Prague, Czech Republic.\n\n"}
{"id": "56646623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56646623", "title": "Radio Mirraya", "text": "Radio Mirraya\n\nRadio Mirraya 101 FM, is a radio station based in Juba owned by United Nations mission in South Sudan. It began broadcasting in South Sudan on June 30, 2006.\n\nIt provides news and information 24 hours, 7 days a week in English and Arabic. It is the fifth UN radio station operating on behalf of UN peace operation in 2006.\n"}
{"id": "2407857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2407857", "title": "Radio RSA", "text": "Radio RSA\n\nRadio RSA: The Voice of South Africa was the international broadcasting service of the Republic of South Africa. It was run by the South African Broadcasting Corporation from its inception on 1 May 1966 until its demise in 1992 following the end of the apartheid era. Radio RSA broadcast news and opinion programming that was mostly pro-government, and the message of its broadcasts reflected those views. Following the fall of the apartheid government, the service was renamed Channel Africa.\n\nRadio RSA, as part of the South African Broadcasting Corporation, was originally part of the Department of Information, which was established after the 1948 National Party victory. The Department of Information’s task was to promote the image of South Africa internationally and reduce criticism of apartheid. After the Muldergate scandal of the late 1970s, the functions of the Department of Information were split. The Department of Foreign Affairs took over control of Radio RSA. The annual budget was about 20 million rands. \n\nIn 1976, Radio RSA transmitted for 36 hours a week. Radio RSA broadcast in 12 languages in 1976 including English, French, Portuguese, and Afrikaans. In 1984, 11 languages were broadcast.\n\nThe studios of Radio RSA were initially located at Broadcast House, Commissioner Street in Johannesburg, relocating to Auckland Park in 1976. Additional facilities were located in Bloemendal near Meyerton, Gauteng. \n\nTransmitters operated at 100, 250 and 500 kW power.\n\nThe station identification in English was “\"This is Radio RSA, the Voice of South Africa, from Johannesburg\", with similar announcements in other languages: \"Ici R. RSA, la Voix de l'Afrique de Sud\". \n\nIn 1992, following the fall of apartheid and the election of an ANC government, the service was renamed Channel Africa.\n"}
{"id": "12527437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12527437", "title": "Rapid Reaction Brigade (Albania)", "text": "Rapid Reaction Brigade (Albania)\n\nThe Albanian Rapid Reaction Brigade was created on 6 January 2001. It is the core unit of the Albanian Land Forces. On January 2003 there was the first structural reorganization and since November 2006 we have the current organization. It is considered a first priority unit of the Albanian Armed Forces.\n\nThe Brigade carries out offensive and defensive operations, \"Peace Support Operations\" and humanitarian assistance. \n\n\nThe Rapid Reaction Brigade has its Command and HQ, 3 Infantry battalions, 1 Logistic Battalion, 1 Artillery Battalion, 1 Engineer Battalion, and 4 Subordinate Companies（Reconnaissance, NBC Protection, Signal, Military Police）.\n\n"}
{"id": "11928678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11928678", "title": "Republic of the Congo presidential election, 2002", "text": "Republic of the Congo presidential election, 2002\n\nA presidential election was held in the Republic of the Congo on 10 March 2002. This followed the country's second civil war (1997-1999), which returned Denis Sassou Nguesso to power, and a subsequent transitional period, in which a new constitution was written and approved by referendum in January 2002.\n\nThe election lacked meaningful opposition participation, as the main opposition leaders—particularly former President Pascal Lissouba of the Pan-African Union for Social Democracy (UPADS) and former Prime Minister Bernard Kolélas of the Congolese Movement for Democracy and Integral Development (MCDDI)—were in exile, prevented from returning to Congo by legal convictions and sentences that were handed down \"in absentia\". The only important opposition figure left to contest the election was former Prime Minister André Milongo of the Union for Democracy and the Republic (UDR), but he withdrew a few days before the election, claiming that it would be fraudulent.\n\nSassou Nguesso, standing as the candidate of his own Congolese Labour Party (PCT) and a coalition, the United Democratic Forces (FDU), was overwhelmingly elected, receiving nearly 90% of the vote against a field of minor challengers. He was sworn in on 14 August 2002 in a ceremony at the Palace of Congress in Brazzaville in the presence of seven other African heads of state.\n\nProvisional results were announced by the Minister of the Interior, Pierre Oba, on 13 March 2002; final results, which were only slightly different from the provisional results, were proclaimed by the Supreme Court on 29 March. There were 1,733,943 registered voters at the time of the election, 1,295,319 of whom voted. 92,706 votes were invalid, leaving 1,202,611 valid votes. 1,075,247 of those votes went to Sassou Nguesso.\n"}
{"id": "12856060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12856060", "title": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Gaborone", "text": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Gaborone\n\nThe Roman Catholic Diocese of Gaborone () is a diocese located in the city of Gaborone, Botswana, in the Ecclesiastical province of Pretoria in South Africa. The motto of the diocese is \"\", which means \"God is love.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26874216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26874216", "title": "Régie Nationale des Postes", "text": "Régie Nationale des Postes\n\nRégie Nationale des Postes is the company responsible for postal service in Burundi.\n\nCommunications in Burundi\n\n"}
{"id": "48055756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48055756", "title": "Seronga Airport", "text": "Seronga Airport\n\nSeronga Airport is an airport serving the village of Seronga in the North-West District of Botswana. The well-marked runway is on the northern edge of the Okavango Delta.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50717157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50717157", "title": "Terry Wilson (scientist)", "text": "Terry Wilson (scientist)\n\nTerry Jean Wilson (born 1954) is an international leader in the study of present-day tectonics in Antarctica. She has led large, international efforts, such as Polar Earth Observing Network (POLENET), to investigate the interactions between the earth's crust and the cryosphere in Antarctica.\n\nWilson received her BS from the University of Michigan and Ph.D from Lamont Doherty Geological Observatory and Columbia University in 1983.\n\nWilson is based at Ohio State University where she investigates the Earth's structural architecture, the interaction between ice sheets in Antarctica and the solid Earth and neotectonic rifting. Her research integrates satellite remote sensing, Global Positioning Systems, both airborne and marine geophysical data and microstructural and structural mapping of faults in sedimentary and outcrop rock cores.\n\nWilson has held several high-profile leadership positions in Antarctic Science:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21393489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21393489", "title": "The Man with the Golden Soles", "text": "The Man with the Golden Soles\n\nThe Man with the Golden Soles () is a Syrian documentary film by the director Omar Amiralay. The film, released in 2000, is about the then Lebanese Prime minister Rafic Hariri.\n"}
{"id": "42545961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42545961", "title": "Unity Movement for Democracy", "text": "Unity Movement for Democracy\n\nThe Unity Movement for Democracy (, MUD) was a political party in Guinea-Bissau.\n\nThe MUD was established on 6 June 1990 by Filinto Vaz Martins, a former member of the ruling PAIGC, and was the second party established after multi-party democracy was introduced. It joined the Union for Change alliance, which won six seats in the 1994 general elections, although MUD did not receive any of the seats.\n\nThe Union for Change was reduced to three seats in the 1999–2000 general elections, and lost them all in the 2004 parliamentary elections, after which the MUD became inactive.\n"}
{"id": "25389299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25389299", "title": "Villalba de la Sierra Formation", "text": "Villalba de la Sierra Formation\n\nThe Villalba de la Sierra Formation is a Mesozoic geologic formation in Spain. Fossil dinosaur eggs have been reported from the formation along with abundant titanosaurian remains, including \"Lohuecotitan\". The remains of various fishes, amphibians, lizards, turtles, and crocodiles are also known from the site.\n\n"}
{"id": "2708378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2708378", "title": "Wind of Change (Scorpions song)", "text": "Wind of Change (Scorpions song)\n\n\"Wind of Change\" is a power ballad by the German rock band Scorpions, recorded for their eleventh studio album, \"Crazy World\" (1990). The song was composed and written by the band's lead singer Klaus Meine and produced by Keith Olsen and the band. It was released as the album's third single in January 1991 and became a worldwide hit, just after the failed coup that would eventually lead to the collapse of the Soviet Union. The song topped the charts in Germany and across Europe and peaked at number four in the United States on August 31, 1991 and number two in the United Kingdom. It later appeared on the band's 1995 live album \"Live Bites\", their 2000 album with the Berlin Philharmonic Orchestra, \"Moment of Glory\", and on their 2001 unplugged album \"Acoustica\". \nWith estimated sales of 14 million copies sold worldwide, \"Wind of Change\" is one of the best-selling singles of all time. It holds the record for the best-selling single by a German artist.\n\nThe band presented a gold record of the single to Mikhail Gorbachev in 1991. , the video for \"Wind of Change\" has been viewed more than 635 million times on YouTube. The Scorpions were the first German band to receive over 100 million views.\n\nThe lyrics celebrate \"glasnost\" in the Soviet Union, the end of the Cold War, and speaks of hope at a time when tense conditions had arisen due to the fall of Communist-run governments among Eastern Bloc nations beginning in 1989.\n\nThe Scorpions were inspired to write the song on a visit to Moscow in 1989, and the opening lines refer to the city's landmarks:\n\n<poem>I follow the Moskva\nDown to Gorky Park\nListening to the wind of change</poem>\n\nThe Moskva is the name of the river that runs through Moscow (both the city and the river are named identically in Russian), and Gorky Park is an urban park in Moscow named after the writer Maxim Gorky.\n\nThe song also contains a reference to the balalaika, which is a Russian stringed instrument somewhat like a guitar. The balalaika is mentioned in the following lines:\n\n<poem>\nLet your balalaika sing\nWhat my guitar wants to say</poem>\n\n\"Wind of Change\" opens with a clean guitar intro played by Matthias Jabs, which is played alongside Klaus Meine's flat whistle. The song's guitar solo is played by Rudolf Schenker.\n\nThe band also recorded a Russian-language version of the song, under the title \"\" (\"Veter Peremen\")\n\nIn 2005, viewers of the German television network ZDF chose this song as the song of the century.\n\nEurope\n\nUS\n\n\nUS and Canada 7\" single\n\n\n"}
{"id": "178632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=178632", "title": "Xanth", "text": "Xanth\n\nXanth ( ) is a fantasy world created by author Piers Anthony for his \"Xanth\" series of novels, also known as \"The Magic of Xanth\". Anthony originally intended for Xanth to be a trilogy, and after the success of the first three books expanded the series to nine books. A devoted fan base persuaded the author to continue writing the series, which is now open-ended.\n\nAnthony has stated that he has kept the series going as long as he has because the Xanth novels are \"just about all that publishers want\" from him.\n\nThe name \"Xanth\" pronounced as part of the author's name (\"Pierony\"), is in itself an unintentional pun, matching the playful tone of the books. \n\nAs of August 2017, there are 41 novels, with the latest novel being released in April 2017.\n\nEach human character in Xanth is born with a unique magical ability, called a talent. With the exception of the curse fiends, the winged centaurs, and the child Surprise Golem (Daughter of Rapunzel and Grundy Golem), these abilities never repeat exactly in individuals throughout the entire history of Xanth (although nearly identical talents show up on occasion.) Though many talents are limited in scope (called the \"spot-on-a-wall\" variety), the series focuses mainly on individuals with \"Magician\" caliber abilities (one of the criteria for serving as King of Xanth).\n\nIn addition to the human characters, Xanth is populated by centaurs, demons, dragons, fauns, gargoyles, goblins, golems, harpies, merfolk, naga, nymphs, ogres, zombies, curse fiends, and other fictional beasts. Though initially introduced as obstacles to the human characters, some individuals from those groups become main characters in later books of the series.\n\nAs the series progresses, some of the half-human species are discovered to have the potential to possess magical talents. The centaurs of the primary centaur community, Centaur Isle, exile any centaurs who demonstrate a magical talent (although some centaur communities are more lenient about possession of talent); however, they tolerate talents in \"lesser\" races such as humans. Goblins and harpies are shown to have the potential to possess half-talents, the complementary half existing in a member of the other species, (i.e., a goblin must team with a harpy for them to utilize their talent); the hostility between goblins and harpies proved a major obstacle to any serious effort by them to work together to develop these potential talents. Other non-human species are also shown to possess potential for talents.\n\nGeographically, modern Xanth resembles the state of Florida in the United States in shape, but has landmarks that mimic well known geographical features from around the world. One major example of this is the Gap Chasm, an enormous canyon a mile wide which completely bisects the country, paralleling the DMZ of the Korean Peninsula. The position of the Chasm could also correspond with the Cross Florida Barge Canal, which, similar to the chasm, is generally forgotten except for those who stumble upon it. The Gap is guarded by a resident dragon, known as Stanley Steamer, and is crossed by means of treacherous bridges. Many of Xanth's other geographical features are puns on those of Florida (for example, Lake Ogre-Chobee and the Kiss-Mee River). The Florida Keys also exist, though they are, in Xanth, actual keys. Other punning feature names include the Isle of View (\"I love you\"), Mount Ever-Rest (Mount Everest) and the Centaur Aisle (center aisle) created by a magician from the Centaur Isle. The moon is close enough that flying creatures may land there; the back side is sweet and honeyish, the visible side has turned sour and become curdled cheese, due to observing what has happened on Earth and Xanth. Plants may bear fruit of all descriptions (pie trees and shoe trees are common) or they may be carnivorous (such as the tangle trees), making travel in Xanth risky.\n\nXanth has a connection with the normal world, which is referred to as \"Mundania\"; its people are called \"Mundanes\". Although any citizen of Xanth can enter Mundania at any time through an isthmus in the northwest, Mundanes enter the isthmus in Xanth from random geographic locations and time periods throughout history. In other words, Xanth does not have a fixed location or time in the mundane world; and the timeline between Xanth and Mundania seems to jump backwards and forwards. For example, within the lifetime of a normal citizen of Xanth, an American Mundane from 2012 and an Egyptian Mundane from 3,000 B.C. could both walk across the isthmus. However, Mundanes seem to have trouble finding Xanth on a consistent basis, making any travel to Xanth a somewhat rare occurrence. Despite these seeming difficulties, Xanth was colonized in several waves by groups of invaders and nomads from Mundania over the course of several centuries. The series ties these colonization events to actual historical events on Earth, most notably the Punic wars.\n\nFirst mentioned in \"Crewel Lye\", the Adult Conspiracy is one of the prominent features of the Xanth world. In an interview with Moira Allen, Piers Anthony referred to the \"Adult conspiracy to keep interesting things from children\" as a literary device \"parodying current societal conventions\" Nearly all subsequent books contain references to the Conspiracy and its effects, particularly those novels in which the main characters are children.\n\nAt its core, the Adult Conspiracy seeks to protect children from knowledge that could bring them to great harm. The precise age for entering into the world of adults is age 18, corresponding to the age of majority in most places. The primary principle that inducts children into the Conspiracy is the understanding of the secret of \"summoning the stork\". In Xanthian terms, \"summoning the stork\" literally means to put out a call to summon a stork which will deliver to the couple a child. In Isle of View, it is revealed that summoning the stork will release an \"ellipsis\" (...) into the air to fly off to the stork. This is a play on the joke that all the \"adult\" things happen after a paragraph ends in an ellipsis. Most inductees actually discover the specifics of the act \"by accident\" after marriage, or under the influence of a love spring (a magical spring which causes two drinkers, not necessarily human, or even of the same species, to fall madly, and lustfully, in love with one another at first sight).\n\nOther faculties of the Adult Conspiracy include:\n\nIt is important to note that there have been occasions when children gained access to the Adult Conspiracy prematurely. Jenny Elf, Che Centaur, and Gwenny Goblin had to be given access to the Adult Conspiracy when Gwenny received a pair of contact lenses that corrected her poor eyesight while giving her the ability to see others' dreams (some of which could contain Conspiracy material). In one rare instance, a little girl was born with the magic talent of immunity to the magical censorship of Adult Conspiracy, causing her family much distress. This was remedied with magician Sherlock's talent of reversal and a vial of lethe water which erased her memory.\n\nWhenever Xanth characters visit the nonmagical land outside of Xanth, called Mundania, its natives (Mundanes) speak what sounds like gibberish to the Xanth characters. The gibberish can be translated by a simple replacement cipher, depending on the Mundane language being spoken. Often the language is a simple shift in the alphabet, a letter or two forwards or backwards (see Caesar cipher).\n\nCurse fiends are a fictional race created by Piers Anthony for the series Xanth.\nThey are one of the earlier races in Xanth and are known for their talent to throw curses at their enemies. They are believed to be the primary cause of several different settings in Xanth: 1) the land of Air, 2) the land of Earth, 3) the land of Fire, 4) the land of Water (also called the Water Wing), and 5) the Void.\nThe story about how these regions were created is described in \"Demons Don't Dream\".\n\nThe curse fiends in the present day Xanth stay close to their own community where they put on plays. Because of this, they are widely known for their acting skills.\n\nThey call themselves Curse Friends.\n\nProducer Steven Paul's company SP Entertainment Group is adapting Xanth into both a film and a TV series.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27584821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27584821", "title": "Étoile de Dakar", "text": "Étoile de Dakar\n\nÉtoile de Dakar (“Star of Dakar”) were a leading music group of Senegal in the 1970s.\n\nThe group was formed in 1978 by Badou Ndiaye and members of the Star Band, one of Dakar's best known nightclub house bands of the 1970s. Leading the group allowed N'Dour to launch his career as Senegal's first pop star, and after Étoile de Dakar broke up, he continued calling his band \"Super Étoile de Dakar\".\n\nPlaying the Latin-influenced dance music that was popular throughout Africa at the time, Étoile de Dakar quickly became one of the city's most popular bands and went on to record in Paris with producer Ibrahim Sylla and had a track on the Island Records compilation Sound d’Afrique, which was important in bringing African music to western ears in 1981.\n"}
