{"id": "37994877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37994877", "title": "ASEAN Human Rights Declaration", "text": "ASEAN Human Rights Declaration\n\nIn 2009, the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) established the ASEAN Intergovernmental Commission on Human Rights to promote human rights in the ten ASEAN countries. By mid-2012, the Commission had drafted the ASEAN Human Rights Declaration. The Declaration was adopted unanimously by ASEAN members at its 18 November 2012 meeting in Phnom Penh, Cambodia. The Declaration details ASEAN nations' commitment to human rights for its 600 million people. The Declaration includes 40 paragraphs under 6 headings.\n\nThe first five Articles affirm that human rights belong to \"Every person,\" specifically emphasizing that they belong to \"women, children, the elderly, persons with disabilities, migrant workers, and vulnerable and marginalised groups (Art 5). Article 10 directly affirms \"all the civil and political rights in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,\" and these are detailed in Articles 11- 25. Article 26 next affirms \"all the economic, social and cultural rights in the Universal Declaration...,\" with these described in Articles 27 to 34. The ASEAN Human Rights Declaration goes beyond the Universal Declaration by making explicit \"the right to safe drinking water and sanitation\" (Art. 28. e.), \"the right to a safe, clean and sustainable environment\" (Art 28.f.), protection from discrimination in treatment for \"people suffering from communicable diseases, including HIV/AIDS\" (Art. 29), the \"right to development ... aimed at poverty alleviation, the creation of conditions including the protection and sustainability of the environment...(Art. 36), and the right to peace (Art. 30).\n\nHowever, the Commission has been widely criticized for the lack of transparency and failure to consult with ASEAN civil society during drafting process. The Declaration itself has been criticized by ASEAN civil society, international human rights organizations such as Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch, the U.S. Department of State, and the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights. Human Rights Watch described it as a \"declaration of government powers disguised as a declaration of human rights\". ASEAN civil societies have noted that \"The Declaration fails to include several key basic rights and fundamental freedoms, including the right to freedom of association and the right to be free from enforced disappearance.\" Further, the Declaration contains clauses that many fear could be used to undermine human rights, such as “the realization of human rights must be considered in the regional and national context” (Art. 7), or that human rights might be limited to preserve \"national security\" or a narrowly defined “public morality” (Art. 8).\n\nThe U.S. Department of State and the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights welcomed the Declaration, but with substantive reservations. The U.S. State Department issued a statement of support, \"in principle,\" for \"ASEAN's efforts to develop a regional human rights declaration,\" but expressing concern for \"the use of the concept of 'cultural relativism' ..., stipulating that domestic laws can trump universal human rights, incomplete descriptions that are mentioned elsewhere, introducing novel limits to rights, and language that could be read to suggest that individual rights are subject to group veto.\" The U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights \"welcomed the renewed commitment by leaders of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations to universal human rights norms\" noting that \"Other regions have shown how regional human rights systems can evolve and improve over time\" and that \"it is essential that ASEAN ensures that any language inconsistent with international human rights standards does not become a part of any binding regional human rights convention.”\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4524856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4524856", "title": "Absolute defence", "text": "Absolute defence\n\nIn law, an absolute defense is a factual circumstance or argument that, if proven, will end the litigation in favor of the defendant. The concept of an absolute defense is not a rigid one. Statutes frequently use the term merely as a synonym to \"full\" or \"complete\". It is more often used, however, as a term of art in both criminal and civil law to refer to an underlying set of facts and laws, not raised by the complaint or indictment, which will require the defendant's dismissal even if the factual allegations of the complaining pleading are true.\n\nAnother characteristic of an \"absolute defense\" is that, once it is pleaded and proven, it is not subject to mitigation or collateral attack.\n\nExamples of \"absolute defenses\" include\n\n\nUse of the word \"absolute\" sometimes causes confusion, because even in the law \"absolute\" is sometimes used simply as a synonym for \"full\" or \"complete\". As a term or art, however, there are many \"complete\" defenses which are not customarily called \"absolute\". Most notably, innocence, while a complete defense to a criminal charge, is not generally termed \"absolute\", because it involves a material fact of the pleading. On the other hand, double jeopardy is more likely to be termed an absolute defense; an indictment or (other criminal initiating pleading) does not have to state that the defendant has not previously been tried on the crime, but once a defendant shows that he has been previously tried for a crime, his dismissal is required by the US Constitution.\n\nBoth an \"absolute defense\" and a \"complete defense\" must be distinguished from a partial defense. With a partial defense, the litigant hopes to mitigate the outcome of the litigation, or limit culpability, but the liability is not eliminated. Examples include diminished capacity to understand the wrongfulness of the action, or a mistake of fact that affected the intention of the litigant.\n"}
{"id": "50913501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50913501", "title": "Acte clair", "text": "Acte clair\n\nActe clair is a doctrine of European Union law, which states that if a judgment or rule of law is clear enough, then a member state has no duty to refer a question for preliminary ruling to the Court of Justice of the European Union.\n\nThe \"acte clair\" doctrine originated in the judgment of the Court of Justice in \"Srl CILFIT v Ministry of Health\" (1982), from which developed what has been termed the 'CILFIT criteria'. Though it had initially been believed that the Court of Justice would be strict as to its application, scholarly papers claim that CILFIT criteria, although often quoted in judgments and doctrine, have been applied neither consistently nor truly rigidly by the Court. Instead, a more flexible approach to \"acte clair\" requirements is taking shape.\n"}
{"id": "52452385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52452385", "title": "Anambra State All Progressive Congress", "text": "Anambra State All Progressive Congress\n\nThe Anambra State All Progressive Congress is the state chapter of the All Progressive Congress Nigeria in Anambra State, Nigeria. It is currently chaired by Emeka Ibe Its publicity Secretary is Okelo Madukaife Prominent public figures includes Nigeria's Minister of Labour and Employment Dr. Chris Ngige , Executive Secretary Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate (PTAD) Barr. Sharon Ikeazor\n"}
{"id": "425938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425938", "title": "Animal cognition", "text": "Animal cognition\n\nAnimal cognition describes the mental capacities of non-human animals and the study of those capacities. The field developed from comparative psychology, including the study of animal conditioning and learning. It has also been strongly influenced by research in ethology, behavioral ecology, and evolutionary psychology, and hence the alternative name cognitive ethology is sometimes used. Many behaviors associated with the term \"animal intelligence\" are also subsumed within animal cognition.\n\nResearchers have examined animal cognition in mammals (especially primates, cetaceans, elephants, dogs, cats, pigs, horses, cattle, raccoons and rodents), birds (including parrots, fowl, corvids and pigeons), reptiles (lizards and snakes), fish and invertebrates (including cephalopods, spiders and insects).\n\nCoined by 19th-century British psychologist C. Lloyd Morgan, Morgan's Canon remains a fundamental precept of comparative (animal) psychology. In its developed form, it states that:\nIn no case is an animal activity to be interpreted in terms of higher psychological processes if it can be fairly interpreted in terms of processes which stand lower in the scale of psychological evolution and development.\n\nIn other words, Morgan believed that anthropomorphic approaches to animal behavior were fallacious, and that people should only consider behaviour as, for example, rational, purposive or affectionate, if there is no other explanation in terms of the behaviours of more primitive life-forms to which we do not attribute those faculties.\n\nThe behavior of non-human animals has captivated human imagination from antiquity, and over the centuries many writers have speculated about the animal mind, or its absence. Speculation about animal intelligence gradually yielded to scientific study after Darwin placed humans and animals on a continuum, although Darwin's largely anecdotal approach to the topic would not pass scientific muster later on. Unsatisfied with the anecdotal method of Darwin and his protégé J. G. Romanes, E. L. Thorndike brought animal behavior into the laboratory for objective scrutiny. Thorndike's careful observations of the escape of cats, dogs, and chicks from puzzle boxes led him to conclude that what appears to the naive human observer to be intelligent behavior may be strictly attributable to simple associations. According to Thorndike, using Morgan's Canon, the inference of animal reason, insight, or consciousness is unnecessary and misleading. At about the same time, I. P. Pavlov began his seminal studies of conditioned reflexes in dogs. Pavlov quickly abandoned attempts to infer canine mental processes; such attempts, he said, led only to disagreement and confusion. He was, however, willing to propose unseen physiological processes that might explain his observations.\n\nThe work of Thorndike, Pavlov and a little later of the outspoken behaviorist John B. Watson set the direction of much research on animal behavior for more than half a century. During this time there was considerable progress in understanding simple associations; notably, around 1930 the differences between Thorndike's instrumental (or operant) conditioning and Pavlov's classical (or Pavlovian) conditioning were clarified, first by Miller and Kanorski, and then by B. F. Skinner. Many experiments on conditioning followed; they generated some complex theories, but they made little or no reference to intervening mental processes. Probably the most explicit dismissal of the idea that mental processes control behavior was the radical behaviorism of Skinner. This view seeks to explain behavior, including \"private events\" like mental images, solely by reference to the environmental contingencies impinging on the human or animal.\n\nDespite the predominantly behaviorist orientation of research before 1960, the rejection of mental processes in animals was not universal during those years. Influential exceptions included, for example, Wolfgang Köhler and his insightful chimpanzees and Edward Tolman whose proposed cognitive map was a significant contribution to subsequent cognitive research in both humans and animals.\n\nBeginning around 1960, a \"cognitive revolution\" in research on humans gradually spurred a similar transformation of research with animals. Inference to processes not directly observable became acceptable and then commonplace. An important proponent of this shift in thinking was Donald O. Hebb, who argued that \"mind\" is simply a name for processes in the head that control complex behavior, and that it is both necessary and possible to infer those processes from behavior. Animals came to be seen as \"goal seeking agents that acquire, store, retrieve, and internally process information at many levels of cognitive complexity\". The remainder of this article touches many areas of research that have appeared or greatly progressed since this seminal change in thinking, and many of the theoretical and empirical findings that have captured wide attention.\n\nThe acceleration of research on animal cognition in the last 50 years or so has led to a rapid expansion in the variety of species studied and methods employed. The remarkable behavior of large-brained animals such as primates and cetacea has claimed special attention, but all sorts of mammals large and small, birds, fish, ants, bees, and others have been brought into the laboratory or observed in carefully controlled field studies. In the laboratory, animals push levers, pull strings, dig for food, swim in water mazes, or respond to images on computer screens in discrimination, attention, memory, and categorization experiments. Careful field studies explore memory for food caches, navigation by stars, communication, tool use, identification of conspecifics, and many other matters. Studies often focus on the behavior of animals in their natural environments and discuss the putative function of the behavior for the propagation and survival of the species. These developments reflect an increased cross-fertilization from related fields such as ethology and behavioral ecology. Also, contributions from behavioral neuroscience are beginning to clarify the physiological substrate of some inferred mental process.\n\nSome researchers have made effective use of a Piagetian methodology, taking tasks which human children are known to master at different stages of development, and investigating which of them can be performed by particular species. Others have been inspired by concerns for animal welfare and the management of domestic species: for example Temple Grandin has harnessed her unique expertise in animal welfare and the ethical treatment of farm livestock to highlight underlying similarities between humans and other animals. From a methodological point of view, one of the main risks in this sort of work is anthropomorphism, the tendency to interpret an animal's behavior in terms of human feelings, thoughts, and motivations.\n\nHuman and non-human animal cognition have much in common, and this is reflected in the research summarized below; most of the headings found here might also appear in an article on human cognition. Of course, research in the two also differs in important respects. Notably, much research with humans either studies or involves language, and much research with animals is related directly or indirectly to behaviors important to survival in natural settings. Following are summaries of some of the major areas of research in animal cognition.\n\nAnimals process information from eyes, ears, and other sensory organs to perceive the environment. Perceptual processes have been studied in many species, with results that are often similar to those in humans. Equally interesting are those perceptual processes that differ from, or go beyond those found in humans, such as echolocation in bats and dolphins, motion detection by skin receptors in fish, and extraordinary visual acuity, motion sensitivity and ability to see ultraviolet light in some birds.\n\nMuch of what is happening in the world at any moment is irrelevant to current behavior. Attention refers to mental processes that select relevant information, inhibit irrelevant information, and switch among these as the situation demands. Often the selective process is tuned before relevant information appears; such expectation makes for rapid selection of key stimuli when they become available. A large body of research has explored the way attention and expectation affect the behavior of non-human animals, and much of this work suggests that attention operates in birds, mammals and reptiles in much the same way that it does in humans.\n\nAnimals trained to discriminate between two stimuli, say black versus white, can be said to attend to the \"brightness dimension,\" but this says little about whether this dimension is selected in preference to others. More enlightenment comes from experiments that allow the animal to choose from several alternatives. For example, several studies have shown that performance is better on, for example, a color discrimination (e.g. blue vs green) after the animal has learned another color discrimination (e.g. red vs orange) than it is after training on a different dimension such as an X shape versus and O shape. The reverse effect happens after training on forms. Thus, the earlier learning appears to affect which dimension, color or form, the animal will attend to.\n\nOther experiments have shown that after animals have learned to respond to one aspect of the environment responsiveness to other aspects is suppressed. In \"blocking\", for example, an animal is conditioned to respond to one stimulus (\"A\") by pairing that stimulus with reward or punishment. After the animal responds consistently to A, a second stimulus (\"B\") accompanies A on additional training trials. Later tests with the B stimulus alone elicit little response, suggesting that learning about B has been blocked by prior learning about A. This result supports the hypothesis that stimuli are neglected if they fail to provide new information. Thus, in the experiment just cited, the animal failed to attend to B because B added no information to that supplied by A. If true, this interpretation is an important insight into attentional processing, but this conclusion remains uncertain because blocking and several related phenomena can be explained by models of conditioning that do not invoke attention.\n\nAttention is a limited resource and is not an all-or-nothing response: the more attention devoted to one aspect of the environment, the less is available for others. A number of experiments have studied this in animals. In one experiment, a tone and a light are presented simultaneously to pigeons. The pigeons gain a reward only by choosing the correct combination of the two stimuli (e.g. a high frequency tone together with a yellow light). The birds perform well at this task, presumably by dividing attention between the two stimuli. When only one of the stimuli varies and the other is presented at its rewarded value, discrimination improves on the variable stimulus but discrimination on the alternative stimulus worsens. These outcomes are consistent with the notion that attention is a limited resource that can be more or less focused among incoming stimuli.\n\nAs noted above, the function of attention is to select information that is of special use to the animal. Visual search typically calls for this sort of selection, and search tasks have been used extensively in both humans and animals to determine the characteristics of attentional selection and the factors that control it.\n\nExperimental research on visual search in animals was initially prompted by field observations published by Luc Tinbergen (1960). Tinbergen observed that birds are selective when foraging for insects. For example, he found that birds tended to catch the same type of insect repeatedly even though several types were available. Tinbergen suggested that this prey selection was caused by an attentional bias that improved detection of one type of insect while suppressing detection of others. This \"attentional priming\" is commonly said to result from a pretrial activation of a mental representation of the attended object, which Tinbergen called a \"searching image\".\n\nTinbergen's field observations on priming have been supported by a number of experiments. For example, Pietrewicz and Kamil (1977, 1979) presented blue jays with pictures of tree trunks upon which rested either a moth of species A, a moth of species B, or no moth at all. The birds were rewarded for pecks at a picture showing a moth. Crucially, the probability with which a particular species of moth was detected was higher after repeated trials with that species (e.g. A, A, A...) than it was after a mixture of trials (e.g. A, B, B, A, B, A, A...). These results suggest again that sequential encounters with an object can establish an attentional predisposition to see the object.\n\nAnother way to produce attentional priming in search is to provide an advance signal that is associated with the target. For example, if a person hears a song sparrow he or she may be predisposed to detect a song sparrow in a shrub, or among other birds. A number of experiments have reproduced this effect in animal subjects.\n\nStill other experiments have explored nature of stimulus factors that affect the speed and accuracy of visual search. For example, the time taken to find a single target increases as the number of items in the visual field increases. This rise in RT is steep if the distracters are similar to the target, less steep if they are dissimilar, and may not occur if the distracters are very different in from the target in form or color.\n\nFundamental but difficult to define, the concept of \"concept\" was discussed for hundreds of years by philosophers before it became a focus of psychological study. Concepts enable humans and animals to organize the world into functional groups; the groups may be composed of perceptually similar objects or events, diverse things that have a common function, relationships such as same versus different, or relations among relations such as analogies. Extensive discussions on these matters together with many references may be found in Shettleworth (2010) Wasserman and Zentall (2006) and in Zentall \"et al.\" (2008). The latter is freely available online.\n\nMost work on animal concepts has been done with visual stimuli, which can easily be constructed and presented in great variety, but auditory and other stimuli have been used as well. Pigeons have been widely used, for they have excellent vision and are readily conditioned to respond to visual targets; other birds and a number of other animals have been studied as well.\nIn a typical experiment, a bird or other animal confronts a computer monitor on which a large number of pictures appear one by one, and the subject gets a reward for pecking or touching a picture of a category item and no reward for non-category items. Alternatively, a subject may be offered a choice between two or more pictures. Many experiments end with the presentation of items never seen before; successful sorting of these items shows that the animal has not simply learned many specific stimulus-response associations. A related method, sometimes used to study relational concepts, is matching-to-sample. In this task an animal sees one stimulus and then chooses between two or more alternatives, one of which is the same as the first; the animal is then rewarded for choosing the matching stimulus.\n\nPerceptual categorization is said to occur when a person or animal responds in a similar way to a range of stimuli that share common features. For example, a squirrel climbs a tree when it sees Rex, Shep, or Trixie, which suggests that it categorizes all three as something to avoid. This sorting of instances into groups is crucial to survival. Among other things, an animal must categorize if it is to apply learning about one object (e.g. Rex bit me) to new instances of that category (dogs may bite).\n\nMany animals readily classify objects by perceived differences in form or color. For example, bees or pigeons quickly learn to choose any red object and reject any green object if red leads to reward and green does not. Seemingly much more difficult is an animal's ability to categorize natural objects that vary a great deal in color and form even while belonging to the same group. In a classic study, Richard J. Herrnstein trained pigeons to respond to the presence or absence of human beings in photographs. The birds readily learned to peck photos that contained partial or full views of humans and to avoid pecking photos with no human, despite great differences in the form, size, and color of both the humans displayed and in the non-human pictures. In follow-up studies, pigeons categorized other natural objects (e.g. trees) and after training they were able without reward to sort photos they had not seen before . Similar work has been done with natural auditory categories, for example, bird songs. Honeybees (\"Apis mellifera\") are able to form concepts of \"up\" and \"down\".\n\nPerceptually unrelated stimuli may come to be responded to as members of a class if they have a common use or lead to common consequences. An oft-cited study by Vaughan (1988) provides an example. Vaughan divided a large set of unrelated pictures into two arbitrary sets, A and B. Pigeons got food for pecking at pictures in set A but not for pecks at pictures in set B. After they had learned this task fairly well, the outcome was reversed: items in set B led to food and items in set A did not. Then the outcome was reversed again, and then again, and so on. Vaughan found that after 20 or more reversals, associating reward with a few pictures in one set caused the birds to respond to the other pictures in that set without further reward, as if they were thinking \"if these pictures in set A bring food, the others in set A must also bring food.\" That is, the birds now categorized the pictures in each set as functionally equivalent. Several other procedures have yielded similar results.\n\nWhen tested in a simple stimulus matching-to-sample task (described above) many animals readily learn specific item combinations, such as \"touch red if the sample is red, touch green if the sample is green.\" But this does not demonstrate that they distinguish between \"same\" and \"different\" as general concepts. Better evidence is provided if, after training, an animal successfully makes a choice that matches a novel sample that it has never seen before. Monkeys and chimpanzees do learn to do this, as do pigeons if they are given a great deal of practice with many different stimuli. However, because the sample is presented first, successful matching might mean that the animal is simply choosing the most recently seen \"familiar\" item rather than the conceptually \"same\" item. A number of studies have attempted to distinguish these possibilities, with mixed results.\n\nThe use of rules has sometimes been considered an ability restricted to humans, but a number of experiments have shown evidence of simple rule learning in primates and also in other animals. Much of the evidence has come from studies of sequence learning in which the \"rule\" consists of the order in which a series of events occurs. Rule use is shown if the animal learns to discriminate different orders of events and transfers this discrimination to new events arranged in the same order. For example, Murphy \"et al.\" (2008) trained rats to discriminate between visual sequences. For one group ABA and BAB were rewarded, where A=\"bright light\" and B=\"dim light\". Other stimulus triplets were not rewarded. The rats learned the visual sequence, although both bright and dim lights were equally associated with reward. More importantly, in a second experiment with auditory stimuli, rats responded correctly to sequences of novel stimuli that were arranged in the same order as those previously learned. Similar sequence learning has been demonstrated in birds and other animals as well.\n\nThe categories that have been developed to analyze human memory (short term memory, long term memory, working memory) have been applied to the study of animal memory, and some of the phenomena characteristic of human short term memory (e.g. the serial position effect) have been detected in animals, particularly monkeys. However most progress has been made in the analysis of spatial memory; some of this work has sought to clarify the physiological basis of spatial memory and the role of the hippocampus; other work has explored the spatial memory of scatter-hoarder animals such as Clark's nutcracker, certain jays, tits and certain squirrels, whose ecological niches require them to remember the locations of thousands of caches, often following radical changes in the environment.\n\nMemory has been widely investigated in foraging honeybees, \"Apis mellifera\", which use both transient short-term working memory that is non-feeder specific and a feeder specific\nlong-term reference memory. Memory induced in a free-flying honeybee by a single learning trial lasts for days and, by three learning trials, for a lifetime. Slugs, \"Limax flavus\", have a short-term memory of approximately 1 min and long-term memory of 1 month.\n\nAs in humans, research with animals distinguishes between \"working\" or \"short-term\" memory from \"reference\" or long-term memory. Tests of working memory evaluate memory for events that happened in the recent past, usually within the last few seconds or minutes. Tests of reference memory evaluate memory for regularities such as \"pressing a lever brings food\" or \"children give me peanuts\".\n\nThis is one of the simplest tests for memory spanning a short time interval. The test compares an animal's response to a stimulus or event on one occasion to its response on a previous occasion. If the second response differs consistently from the first, the animal must have remembered something about the first, unless some other factor such as motivation, sensory sensitivity, or the test stimulus has changed.\n\nDelayed response tasks are often used to study short-term memory in animals. Introduced by Hunter (1913), a typical delayed response task presents an animal with a stimulus such a colored light, and after a short time interval the animal chooses among alternatives that match the stimulus, or are related to the stimulus in some other way. In Hunter's studies, for example, a light appeared briefly in one of three goal boxes and then later the animal chose among the boxes, finding food behind the one that had been lighted. Most research has been done with some variation of the \"delayed matching-to-sample\" task. For example, in the initial study with this task, a pigeon was presented with a flickering or steady light. Then, a few seconds later, two pecking keys were illuminated, one with a steady light and one with a flickering light. The bird got food if it pecked the key that matched the original stimulus.\n\nA commonly-used variation of the matching-to-sample task requires the animal to use the initial stimulus to control a later choice between different stimuli. For example, if the initial stimulus is a black circle, the animal learns to choose \"red\" after the delay; if it is a black square, the correct choice is \"green\". Ingenious variations of this method have been used to explore many aspects of memory, including forgetting due to interference and memory for multiple items.\n\nThe radial arm maze is used to test memory for spatial location and to determine the mental processes by which location is determined. In a radial maze test, an animal is placed on a small platform from which paths lead in various directions to goal boxes; the animal finds food in one or more goal boxes. Having found food in a box, the animal must return to the central platform. The maze may be used to test both reference and working memory. Suppose, for example, that over a number of sessions the same 4 arms of an 8-arm maze always lead to food. If in a later test session the animal goes to a box that has never been baited, this indicates a failure of reference memory. On the other hand, if the animal goes to a box that it has already emptied during the same test session, this indicates a failure of working memory. Various confounding factors, such as odor cues, are carefully controlled in such experiments.\n\nThe water maze is used to test an animal's memory for spatial location and to discover how an animal is able to determine locations. Typically the maze is a circular tank filled with water that has been made milky so that it is opaque. Located somewhere in the maze is small platform placed just below the surface of the water. When placed in the tank, the animal swims around until it finds and climbs up on the platform. With practice, the animal finds the platform more and more quickly. Reference memory is assessed by removing the platform and observing the relative amount of time the animal spends swimming in the area where the platform had been located. Visual and other cues in and around the tank may be varied to assess the animal's reliance on landmarks and the geometric relations among them.\n\nWhether an animal ranges over a territory of measured in square kilometers or square meters, its survival typically depends on its ability to do such things as find a food source and then return to its nest. Sometimes such a task can be performed rather simply, for example by following a chemical trail. Typically, however, the animal must somehow acquire and use information about locations, directions, and distances. The following paragraphs outline some of the ways that animals do this. \n\nMany animals travel hundreds or thousands of miles in seasonal migrations or returns to breeding grounds. They may be guided by the sun, the stars, the polarization of light, magnetic cues, olfactory cues, winds, or a combination of these. This extensive area of research is covered in the main article on Animal navigation.\n\nIt has been hypothesized that animals such as apes and wolves are good at spatial cognition because this skill is necessary for survival. Some researchers argue that this ability may have diminished somewhat in dogs because humans have provided necessities such as food and shelter during some 15,000 years of domestication.\n\nThe behavior of most animals is synchronized with the earth's daily light-dark cycle. Thus, many animals are active during the day, others are active at night, still others near dawn and dusk. Though one might think that these \"circadian rhythms\" are controlled simply by the presence or absence of light, nearly every animal that has been studied has been shown to have a \"biological clock\" that yields cycles of activity even when the animal is in constant illumination or darkness. Circadian rhythms are so automatic and fundamental to living things – they occur even in plants – that they are usually discussed separately from cognitive processes, and the reader is referred to the main article (Circadian rhythms) for further information.\n\nSurvival often depends on an animal's ability to time intervals. For example, rufous hummingbirds feed on the nectar of flowers, and they often return to the same flower, but only after the flower has had enough time to replenish its supply of nectar. In one experiment hummingbirds fed on artificial flowers that quickly emptied of nectar but were refilled at some fixed time (e.g. twenty minutes) later. The birds learned to come back to the flowers at about the right time, learning the refill rates of up to eight separate flowers and remembering how long ago they had visited each one.\n\nThe details of interval timing have been studied in a number of species. One of the most common methods is the \"peak procedure\". In a typical experiment, a rat in an operant chamber presses a lever for food. A light comes on, a lever-press brings a food pellet at a fixed later time, say 10 seconds, and then the light goes off. Timing is measured during occasional test trials on which no food is presented and the light stays on. On these test trials, the rat presses the lever more and more until about 10 sec and then, when no food comes, gradually stops pressing. The time at which the rat presses most on these test trials is taken to be its estimate of the payoff time.\n\nExperiments using the peak procedure and other methods have shown that animals can time short intervals quite exactly, can time more than one event at once, and can integrate time with spatial and other cues. Such tests have also been used for quantitative tests of theories of animal timing, such as Gibbon's Scalar Expectancy Theory (\"SET\"), Killeen's Behavioral Theory of Timing, and Machado's Learning to Time model. No one theory has yet gained unanimous agreement.\n\nAlthough tool use was long assumed to be a uniquely human trait, there is now much evidence that many animals use tools, including mammals, birds, fish, cephalopods and insects. Discussions of tool use often involve a debate about what constitutes a \"tool\", and they often consider the relation of tool use to the animal's intelligence and brain size.\n\nTool use has been reported many times in both wild and captive primates, particularly the great apes. The use of tools by primates is varied and includes hunting (mammals, invertebrates, fish), collecting honey, processing food (nuts, fruits, vegetables and seeds), collecting water, weapons and shelter. Research in 2007 shows that chimpanzees in the Fongoli savannah sharpen sticks to use as spears when hunting, considered the first evidence of systematic use of weapons in a species other than humans. Other mammals that spontaneously use tools in the wild or in captivity include elephants, bears, cetaceans, sea otters and mongooses.\n\nSeveral species of birds have been observed to use tools in the wild, including warblers, parrots, Egyptian vultures, brown-headed nuthatches, gulls and owls. Some species, such as the woodpecker finch of the Galapagos Islands, use particular tools as an essential part of their foraging behavior. However, these behaviors are often quite inflexible and cannot be applied effectively in new situations. A great many species of birds build nests with a wide range of complexities, but although nest-building behaviour fulfills the criteria of some definitions of \"tool-use\", this is not the case with other definitions.\n\nSeveral species of corvids have been trained to use tools in controlled experiments. One species examined extensively under laboratory conditions is the New Caledonian crow. One individual called “Betty” spontaneously made a wire tool to solve a novel problem. She was being tested to see whether she would select a wire hook rather than a straight wire to pull a little bucket of meat out of a well. Betty tried poking the straight wire at the meat. After a series of failures with this direct approach, she withdrew the wire and began directing it at the bottom of the well, which was secured to its base with duct tape. The wire soon became stuck, whereupon Betty pulled it sideways, bending it and unsticking it. She then inserted the hook into the well and extracted the meat. In all but one of 10 subsequent trials with only straight wire provided, she also made and used a hook in the same manner, but not before trying the straight wire first.\n\nSeveral species of wrasses have been observed using rocks as anvils to crack bivalve (scallops, urchins and clams) shells. This behavior was first filmed in an orange-dotted tuskfish (\"Choerodon anchorago\") in 2009 by Giacomo Bernardi. The fish fans sand to unearth the bivalve, takes it into its mouth, swims several meters to a rock, which it then uses as an anvil by smashing the mollusc apart with sideward thrashes of the head. This behaviour has also been recorded in a blackspot tuskfish (\"Choerodon schoenleinii\") on Australia's Great Barrier Reef, yellowhead wrasse (\"Halichoeres garnoti\") in Florida and a six-bar wrasse (\"Thalassoma hardwicke\") in an aquarium setting. These species are at opposite ends of the phylogenetic tree in this family, so this behaviour may be a deep-seated trait in all wrasses.\n\nSome cephalopods are known to use coconut shells for protection or camouflage.\n\nAnts of the species \"Conomyrma bicolor\" pick up stones and other small objects with their mandibles and drop them down the vertical entrances of rival colonies, allowing workers to forage for food without competition.\n\nIt is clear that animals of quite a range of species are capable of solving problems that appear to require abstract reasoning; Wolfgang Köhler's (1917) work with chimpanzees is a famous early example. He observed that chimpanzees did not use trial and error to solve problems such as retrieving bananas hung out of reach. Instead, they behaved in a manner that was \"unwaveringly purposeful,\" spontaneously placing boxes so that they could climb to reach the fruit. Modern research has identified similar behavior in animals usually thought of as much less intelligent, if appropriate pre-training is given. Causal reasoning has also been observed in rooks and New Caledonian crows.\n\nIt has been shown that Barbados bullfinches (\"Loxigilla barbadensis\") from urbanized areas are better at innovative problem-solving tasks than bullfinches from rural environments, but that they did not differ in colour discrimination learning.\n\nA cognitive bias refers to a systematic pattern of deviation from norm or rationality in judgment, whereby inferences about other individuals or situations may be drawn in an illogical fashion.\n\nCognitive bias is sometimes illustrated by using answers to the question \"Is the glass half empty or half full?\". Choosing \"half empty\" is supposed to indicate pessimism whereas choosing \"half full\" indicates optimism. To test this in animals, an individual is trained to anticipate that stimulus A, e.g. a 100 Hz tone, precedes a positive event, e.g. highly desired food is delivered when a lever is pressed by the animal. The same individual is trained to anticipate that stimulus B, e.g. a 900 Hz tone, precedes a negative event, e.g. bland food is delivered when the animal presses a lever. The animal is then tested by being given an intermediate stimulus C, e.g. a 500 Hz tone, and observing whether the animal presses the lever associated with the positive or negative reward. This has been suggested to indicate whether the animal is in a positive or negative mood.\n\nIn a study that used this approach, rats that were playfully tickled responded differently than rats that were simply handled. The rats that had been tickled were more optimistic than the handled rats. The authors suggested that they had demonstrated \"...for the first time a link between the directly measured positive affective state and decision making under uncertainty in an animal model\".\n\nThere is some evidence for cognitive bias in a number of species, including rats, dogs, rhesus macaques, sheep, chicks, starlings and honeybees.\n\nThe modeling of human language in animals is known as animal language research. In addition to the ape-language experiments mentioned above, there have also been more or less successful attempts to teach language or language-like behavior to some non-primate species, including parrots and great spotted woodpeckers. Arguing from his own results with the animal Nim Chimpsky and his analysis of others results, Herbert Terrace criticized the idea that chimps can produce new sentences. Shortly thereafter Louis Herman published research on artificial language comprehension in the bottlenosed dolphin (Herman, Richards, & Wolz, 1984). Though this sort of research has been controversial, especially among cognitive linguists, many researchers agree that many animals can understand the meaning of individual words, and that some may understand simple sentences and syntactic variations, but there is little evidence that any animal can produce new strings of symbols that correspond to new sentences.\n\nWolfgang Köhler is usually credited with introducing the concept of insight into experimental psychology. Working with chimpanzees, Köhler came to dispute Edward Thorndike's theory that animals must solve problems gradually, by trial and error. He said that Thorndike's animals could only use trial and error because the situation precluded other forms of problem solving. He provided chimps with a relatively unstructured situation, and he observed sudden \"ah-ha!\" insightful changes of behavior, as, for example, when a chimp suddenly moved a box into position so that it could retrieve a banana. More recently, Asian elephants (\"Elephas maximus\") were shown to exhibit similar insightful problem solving. A male was observed moving a box to a position where it could be stood upon to reach food that had been deliberately hung out of reach.\n\nA variety of studies indicates that animals are able to use and communicate quantitative information, and that some can count in a rudimentary way. Some examples of this research follow.\n\nIn one study, rhesus monkeys viewed visual displays containing, for example, 1, 2, 3, or 4 items of different sorts. They were trained to respond to them in several ways involving numerical ordering, for example touching \"1\" first, \"2\" second and so on. When tested with displays containing items they had never seen before, they continued to respond to them in order. The authors conclude that monkeys can represent the numerosities 1 to 9 at least on an ordinal scale.\n\nAnts are able to use quantitative values and transmit this information. For instance, ants of several species are able to estimate quite precisely numbers of encounters with members of other colonies on their feeding territories. Numeracy has been described in the yellow mealworm beetle (\"Tenebrio molitor\") and the honeybee.\n\nWestern lowland gorillas given the choice between two food trays demonstrated the ability to choose the tray with more food items at a rate higher than chance after training. In a similar task, chimpanzees chose the option with the larger amount of food. Salamanders given a choice between two displays with differing amounts of fruit flies, used as a food reward, reliably choose the display with more flies, as shown in a particular experiment.\n\nOther experiments have been conducted that show animals' abilities to differentiate between non-food quantities. American black bears demonstrated quantity differentiation abilities in a task with a computer screen. The bears were trained to touch a computer monitor with a paw or nose to choose a quantity of dots in one of two boxes on the screen. Each bear was trained with reinforcement to pick a larger or smaller amount. During training, the bears were rewarded with food for a correct response. All bears performed better than what random error predicted on the trials with static, non-moving dots, indicating that they could differentiate between the two quantities. The bears choosing correctly in congruent (number of dots coincided with area of the dots) and incongruent (number of dots did not coincide with area of the dots) trials suggests that they were indeed choosing between quantities that appeared on the screen, not just a larger or smaller retinal image, which would indicate they are only judging size.\n\nBottlenose dolphins have shown the ability to choose an array with fewer dots compared to one with more dots. Experimenters set up two boards showing various numbers of dots in a poolside setup. The dolphins were initially trained to choose the board with the fewer number of dots. This was done by rewarding the dolphin when it chose the board with the fewer number of dots. In the experimental trials, two boards were set up, and the dolphin would emerge from the water and point to one board. The dolphins chose the arrays with fewer dots at a rate much larger than chance, indicating they can differentiate between quantities.\nA particular grey parrot, after training, has shown the ability to differentiate between the numbers zero through six using vocalizations. After number and vocalization training, this was done by asking the parrot how many objects there were in a display. The parrot was able to identify the correct amount at a rate higher than chance.\nAngelfish, when put in an unfamiliar environment will group together with conspecifics, an action named shoaling. Given the choice between two groups of differing size, the angelfish will choose the larger of the two groups. This can be seen with a discrimination ratio of 2:1 or greater, such that, as long as one group has at least twice the fish as another group, it will join the larger one.\n\nMonitor lizards have been shown to be capable of numeracy, and some species can distinguish among numbers up to six.\n\nAs the Cognitive ability and intelligence in non-human animals cannot be measured with verbal scales, it has been measured using a variety of methods that involve such things as habit reversal, social learning, and responses to novelty. Principal Component Analysis and factor analytic studies have shown that a single factor of intelligence is responsible for 47% of the individual variance in cognitive ability measures in primates and between 55% and 60% of the variance in mice. These values are similar to the accepted variance in IQ explained by a similar single factor known as the general factor of intelligence in humans (40-50%).\n\nThe general factor of intelligence, or \"g\" factor, is a psychometric construct that summarizes the correlations observed between an individual’s scores on various measures of cognitive abilities. It has been suggested that \"g\" is related to evolutionary life histories and the evolution of intelligence as well as to social learning and cultural intelligence. Non-human models of \"g\" have been used in genetic and neurological research on intelligence to help understand the mechanisms behind variation in \"g\".\n\nTheory of mind is the ability to attribute mental states, e.g. intents, desires, pretending, knowledge, to oneself and others and to understand that others have desires, intentions, and perspectives that are different from one's own.\n\nSome research with ravens provides an example of evidence for theory of mind in a non-human species. Ravens are members of the corvidae family, which is widely regarded as having high cognitive abilities. These birds have been observed to hide their food when dominant ravens are visible and audible at the same time. Based on this observation, ravens were tested for their understanding of \"seeing\" as a mental state. In a first step, the birds protected their cache when dominants were visible but not when they could only be heard from an adjacent room. In the next step, they had access to a small peephole which allowed them to see into the adjacent room. With the peephole open, the ravens guarded their caches against discovery when they could hear dominants in the adjacent room, even when the dominant's sounds were playbacks of recordings.\n\nThe sense in which animals can be said to have consciousness or a self-concept has been hotly debated. The best known research technique in this area is the mirror test devised by Gordon G. Gallup, in which an animal's skin is marked in some way while it is asleep or sedated, and it is then allowed to see its reflection in a mirror; if the animal spontaneously directs grooming behavior towards the mark, that is taken as an indication that it is aware of itself. Self-awareness, by this criterion, has been reported for chimpanzees and also for other great apes, the European magpie, some cetaceans and an Asian elephant\n, but not for monkeys. The mirror test has been criticized by researchers because it is entirely focused on vision, the primary sense in humans, while other species rely more heavily on other senses such as the olfactory sense in dogs.\n\nIt has been suggested that metacognition in some animals provides some evidence for cognitive self-awareness. The great apes, dolphins, and rhesus monkeys have demonstrated the ability to monitor their own mental states and use an \"I don't know\" response to avoid answering difficult questions. Unlike the mirror test, which reveals awareness of the condition of one's own body, this uncertainty monitoring is thought to reveal awareness of one's internal mental state. A 2007 study has provided some evidence for metacognition in rats, although this interpretation has been questioned. These species might also be aware of the strength of their memories.\n\nSome researchers propose that animal calls and other vocal behaviors provide evidence of consciousness. This idea arose from research on children's crib talk by Weir (1962) and in investigations of early speech in children by Greenfield and others (1976). Some such research has been done with a macaw (see Arielle).\n\nIn July, 2012 during the \"Consciousness in Human and Nonhuman Animals\" conference in Cambridge a group of scientists announced and signed a declaration with the following conclusions:\n\nAnimals differ widely in many learning and cognitive tasks in ways that reflect their evolutionary history and their instinctual behaviors in natural environments. For example, dogs and rats easily learn to avoid an electric shock from the floor by moving to another part of the experimental chamber when they hear a tone preceding the shock; this is an appropriate response to a dangerous situation. However, hedgehogs fail to learn this avoidance behavior. This might seem to show the hedgehog's inability to learn, but the hedgehog's instinctive reaction to a threat is to curl up into a ball, a response that interferes with possible escape behavior in this situation.\n\nInstinctive drift is another factor that can influence the interpretation of cognitive research. Instinctive drift is the tendency of an animal to revert to instinctive behaviors that can interfere with learned responses. The concept originated with Keller and Marian Breland when they taught a raccoon to put coins into a box. The raccoon drifted to its instinctive behavior of rubbing the coins with its paws, as it would do when foraging for food.\n\nAnimal ability to process and respond to stimuli is correlated with brain size. Small-brain animals tend to show simple behaviors that are less dependent on learning than those of large-brained animals. Vertebrates, particularly mammals, have large brains and complex behavior that changes with experience. A formula called the encephalization quotient (EC) expresses a relationship between brain and body size; it was developed by H.J. Jerison in the late 1960s. When the encephalization quotient is plotted as a curve, an animal with an EC above the curve is expected to show more cognitive ability than the average animal of its size, whereas an animal with an EC below the curve is expected to have less. Various formulas been suggested, but the equation Ew(brain) = 0.12w(body) has been found to fit data from a sample of mammals. The formula is suggestive at best, and should only be applied to non-mammals with extreme caution. For some of the other vertebrate classes, the power of 3/4 rather than 2/3 is sometimes used, and for many groups of invertebrates, the formula may not give meaningful results.\n\nA traditionally common image is the \"scala naturae\", the ladder of nature on which animals of different species occupy successively higher rungs, with humans typically at the top. However, rather than using such an arbitrary hierarchy, it seems more fruitful to understand cognitive capacities as adaptations to differing ecological niches.(see Shettleworth (1998), Reznikova (2007)).\n\nWhether fairly or not, the performance of animals is often compared to that of humans on cognitive tasks. Not surprisingly, our closest biological relatives, the great apes, tend to perform most like humans. Among the birds, corvids and parrots have typically been found to perform well on human-like tasks. Some octopodes have also been shown to exhibit a number of higher-level skills such as tool use, but the amount of research on cephalopod intelligence is still limited.\n\nBaboons have been shown to be capable of recognizing words.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2612551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2612551", "title": "Board of Immigration Appeals", "text": "Board of Immigration Appeals\n\nThe Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA) is an administrative appellate body within the Executive Office for Immigration Review of the United States Department of Justice.\n\nThe BIA reviews the decisions of the U.S. immigration courts, some decisions of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, and immigration violation arrests by U.S. Customs and Border Protection and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. BIA decisions are the final administrative action in a given case, and the next stage of appeal after a BIA decision is usually in the United States courts of appeals if an appeal is allowed by statute.\n\nMost opinions of the BIA are unpublished and do not apply outside of the cases in which they were issued. However, a limited number of BIA decisions are selected for publication in the Administrative Decisions under the Immigration and Nationality Laws of the United States. There are currently 28 volumes of administrative precedent decisions under the Immigration and Nationality laws encompassing decisions dating back to 1940. BIA precedent decisions are legally binding on all components of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). A precedent decision may be overruled by a published decision of the Attorney General, by a Federal court, by a subsequent BIA precedent decision, or by a change in the law. \n\nThe BIA is located in Bailey's Crossroads, Virginia, and, as of April 2009, had 14 board members, who are administrative judges appointed by the U.S. Attorney General. The size of the full BIA varies from time to time, depending on resignations, retirements, and new appointments; it may have up to fifteen board members under the current authorizing legislation. Decisions issued by the BIA are by made up of three-member panels in limited circumstances. Otherwise, the vast majority of cases are decided by single panel members. A single panel member can also use a process called summary affirmance, which is used in 10 percent of cases (as of 2008), to affirm the lower court without issuing a written decision.\n\nThe BIA is notable in that one need not be an attorney to appear before it representing a client. However, non-attorneys must be part of a BIA-recognized organization (generally a nonprofit), and also have obtained BIA accreditation as individuals. A practice manual for appearing before the BIA is available from the U.S. Department of Justice. A handbook explaining the accreditation and recognition process is available from the nonprofit Catholic Legal Immigration Network (CLINIC).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47418825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47418825", "title": "Capital impairment", "text": "Capital impairment\n\nCapital impairment is the case when the company lost its asset, so the asset is lower than the stock of a company. One way to avoid capital impairment is reduction of capital without any compensation.\n\n"}
{"id": "39437985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39437985", "title": "Centre de Coordination de la Lutte Anti-drogue en Méditerranée", "text": "Centre de Coordination de la Lutte Anti-drogue en Méditerranée\n\nThe Centre de Coordination de la Lutte Anti-drogue en Méditerranée or Mediterranean area anti-drug enforcement coordination centre (CeCLAD-M) is an international anti drug trafficking agency based in Toulon (France) set up in 2008 to coordinate anti-drug trafficking operations and intelligence in the Mediterranean. It is closely modeled on the MAOC-N based in Lisbon.\n\nSet up on 1 December 2008, and headquartered in the French Navy base at Toulon it hosts liaison officers from six Mediterranean countries:\nIn addition four other countries have made public their intention to participate as observers:\n\nThe Centre aims to combat maritime and air drug trafficking activities through better intelligence coordination. The main tasks of the centre are:\n\nSince its inception the centre has coordinated the surveillance of 23 ships and seizures of 3 tonnes of Cannibis from ships involved in trafficking.\n\n"}
{"id": "40172341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40172341", "title": "Constitution of Libya (1969)", "text": "Constitution of Libya (1969)\n\nThe 1969 Libyan Constitution was brought into force on 11 December 1969 by the Revolutionary Command Council, in the name of the Arab people of the Libyan Arab Republic. The constitution would remain in force until the adoption of the interim constitution on 3 August 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "2662967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2662967", "title": "Custom of the sea", "text": "Custom of the sea\n\nA custom of the sea is a custom that is said to be practiced by the officers and crew of ships and boats in the open sea, as distinguished from maritime law, which is a distinct and coherent body of law that governs maritime questions and offenses.\n\nAmong these customs is the practice of cannibalism among shipwrecked survivors, by the drawing of lots to see who is to be killed and eaten so that the others might survive.\n\nAfter a whale rammed and sank the whaling ship \"Essex\" of Nantucket on 20 November 1820, the survivors were left floating in three small whaleboats. They eventually resorted, by common consent, to cannibalism to allow some to survive.\n\nThe case of \"R. v. Dudley and Stephens\" (1884 14 QBD 273 DC) is an English case which developed a crucial ruling on necessity in modern common law. The case dealt with four crewmembers of an English yacht, the \"Mignonette\", who were shipwrecked in a storm some 1,600 miles from the Cape of Good Hope. After a few weeks adrift in a lifeboat, one of the crew fell unconscious due to a combination of hunger and drinking seawater. The others (one abstaining) decided then to kill him and eat him. They were picked up four days later. The case held that necessity was not a defense for a charge of murder, and the two defendants were convicted, though their death sentence was commuted to six months' imprisonment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10752262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10752262", "title": "DAGO (United States Army)", "text": "DAGO (United States Army)\n\nDAGO is an acronym which stands for Department of the Army General Officer. It is not typically used outside of the Department of the Army headquarters and staff sections, however it is sometimes seen in memorandums and other forms of correspondence to lower level echelons. It is also sometimes used to refer to General Officers that are part of the Department of the Army by personnel that are within other sections of the Department of Defense.\n\nThere are also certain orders issued by the Department of the Army that are called DAGOs or Department of the Army General Orders that pertain to base closures, unit citations, the creation of JROTC units, certain awards such as the Medal of Honor and Legion of Merit and structural changes to the Army. These are listed by year on the Army Publishing Directorate's website.\n"}
{"id": "39376205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39376205", "title": "Dikgope Madi", "text": "Dikgope Madi\n\nDikgope Andrew \"Magic Bones\" Madi was an Umkhonto we Sizwe, or MK, combatant involved in the liberation struggle under apartheid.\nHe is believed to have been involved in military operations and extortions, including the 1981 bombing of the Sibasa police station which killed two police officers and crippled a third one. Mr Madi was later kidnapped and tortured by security policemen force and secretly buried at Thohoyandou. \n\nFollowing its exhumation in December 1997 along with 11 other combatants and under the direction of the then Premier Ngoako Ramatlhodi, he was reburied military-style at Marapyane in Mpumalanga on 11 January 1998.\n\nThe investigation undertaken around his death and exhumation illustrates the challenges faced by the exhumation process of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission.\n\nThe investigation revealed that Mr Madi was suspected to have died in August 1983 at Tshipise, Venda, in an incident that cost the life of two other combatants, Patrick Motswaletswale and Humbulani Mulaudzi. \nThe family of Motswaletswale was the first to contact the Ministry of Safety and Security in order for this incident to be investigated. The case was later transferred to the TRC’s Johannesburg office, which established the identity of the combatants, Motswaletswale and Mulaudzi but the third combatants was referred to as Mandi. The only information about the latter was that he was originally from Alexandra.\nOnce the burial site located in Mbaleni in Sibasa, the Commission undertook to establish the connection between Madi and Mandi and therefore to carry out an exhumation. This process led to an MK officer based in Zimbabwe of the time of the death of the combatants identifying Mandi as being Madi.\n\nHowever, the necessary information confirming the identity of the deceased was scarce. Andrew Mandi was not listed as an ANC operative dead in exile but Andrew Madi was one of them, registered as killed in Rhodesia in 1979.\nComplicating the matter, the two other combatants were listed as having been killed in August 1983 in Venda.\n\nRelated to the case was a Human Rights Violation Testimony submitted by Matsutse Elias Madi living in Alexandra, Johannesburg. This testimony revealed that Matsutse Elias Madi's son, Dikgope Molefe ‘Magic Bones’ Madi, disappeared on 28 August 1978 after mentioning a possible project of exile. No investigation was opened by the police. Three or four years later, Madi received an anonymous letter saying that his son was in Tanzania. After the unbanning of the ANC in 1990, Madi was informed of the existence Ms Lovinest Nyerende from Malawi, supposedly Dikgope’s girlfriend. She revealed that she had last seen her boyfriend in Tanzania in 1978 and that he had gone to Zimbabwe in order to fetch other exiles and never returned. In July 1992, Madi was informed by ANC officials that Dikgope died in Zimbabwe during the war. This version suggests that Andrew Madi and Andrew Mandi were two different people. Nevertheless, they shared almost identical names and both came from Alexandra.\n\nTwo other Human Rights Violation testimonies and additional information in other records later confirmed that three people were killed in Venda in 1983. But no source could cast light on the identity of the third victim, the two other being Patrick Motswaletswale and Humbulani Mulaudzi. It was finally an MK operative based in Zimbabwe during the Venda incident who was able to identify Dikgope Andrew ‘Magic Bones’ Madi as the third victim since while detained he had already been taken to identify the bodies in Venda and knew 'Magic Bones' personally.\n\nThe process of exhumation was a challenging part of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission mandate. However flawed, it allowed families to get closer to the truth of what happened to their loved ones and get some closure. \nThe collaboration of the different branches of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission allowed for the family of Dikgope Andrew 'Magic Bones' Madi to get some closure with his exhumation and reburial. However, no one claimed responsibility for his murder.\nThe exhumation process goes beyond this singular case and involved hundreds of cases, some of which are still pending.\n"}
{"id": "2465553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2465553", "title": "Disciplinary council", "text": "Disciplinary council\n\nIn The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church), a disciplinary council is an ecclesiastical trial during which a member of the church is tried for alleged violations of church standards. If a member of the LDS Church is found guilty of an offence by a disciplinary council, he or she may be excommunicated or their church membership may be otherwise restricted. Disciplinary councils are also referred to unofficially as church courts.\n\nAccording to the LDS Church, the purposes of its disciplinary councils are to:\nMost disciplinary councils are convened by a bishop of a ward. In such an instance, the council is composed of the bishop and his two counselors. The ward clerk will also be present to take notes of the proceedings. After hearing all of the evidence in the case, the bishop and his counselors are encouraged to make a joint unanimous decision on the outcome. However, the bishop has the final say and can theoretically make a decision over the protest of either or both of his counselors.\n\nA stake disciplinary council is convened by the stake president in instances where it appears that a holder of the Melchizedek priesthood has committed an offence which may result in excommunication or when the subject is a member of a bishop's immediate family. In such instances, the council is composed of the stake president, his two counselors, and the twelve members of the stake high council. After hearing the evidence in the case and the submissions of the high councilors—one half of whom speak on behalf of the accused—the stake president and his counselors are encouraged to make a joint unanimous decision on the outcome. However, the stake president has the final say and can theoretically make a decision over the protest of either or both of his counselors.\n\nA mission president can convene a disciplinary council to try a full-time missionary in his mission or a member in a district of his mission. He can also authorize branch or district presidents in a district to convene disciplinary councils.\n\nIf the need arises to convene a disciplinary council for the President of the Church or one of his counselors in the First Presidency, the Common Council of the Church must be convened by the church's presiding bishop. The Common Council is made up of the presiding bishop and his counselors and twelve other high priests selected by the presiding bishop. The Common Council has only been convened twice: In August 1838, after the return of Zion's Camp, the Council formally convened for the first time to consider charges made by Sylvester Smith against Joseph Smith, who was eventually cleared. In September 1844, Presiding Bishop Newel K. Whitney convened a Common Council which excommunicated Sidney Rigdon, who was the senior surviving member of the First Presidency after the death of Joseph Smith.\n\nThe council begins by the presiding officer stating the reported misconduct and asking the accused person to admit or deny it. If the person denies the misconduct, the presiding officer or a designate presents the evidence of the misconduct. Evidence may be presented in the form of written or oral statements by witnesses or other documents. An accused person's previous confession cannot be used as evidence in a disciplinary council without the member's consent. The accused member is given a chance to question the witnesses against him or her. After the evidence against the accused is presented, the accused is permitted to present evidence in response. The accused can comment on the evidence and make any other statement he or she wants to make. All witnesses and the accused may also be questioned by any member of the disciplinary council. No witness is placed under oath. Because the disciplinary council is an ecclesiastical court, rules of evidence that govern domestic courts do not apply. The church has instructed leaders that \"procedures in a disciplinary council must be fair and considerate of the feelings of all who participate.\"\n\nIf the accused person admits to the conduct in question, no evidence is presented before the council.\n\nOnce a decision has been reached by the disciplinary council, the decision is announced to the accused person and the presiding officer explains the conditions that are imposed by the decision. The accused is also informed of his or her right to appeal the decision of the council. The decision of the disciplinary council is not announced in a public church meeting unless the case involves (1) the preaching of false doctrine, (2) a transgressor who is a predator, or (3) \"other flagrant transgressions\", such as participation in plural marriage, \"cultist teachings to attract a following\", or ridicule of church leaders.\n\nAn accused member may appeal the decision of the disciplinary council within 30 days of the decision being made. Appeals of a ward disciplinary council are made to the stake disciplinary council (i.e. the stake president, his two counselors, and the high council). An appeal of the decision of a stake disciplinary council or a disciplinary council convened by a mission president is to the First Presidency of the church. An appeal of a decision of a disciplinary council convened by a branch president or a district president in a mission is to the mission president. The body hearing the appeal may vary the decision of the council in any way or let the original decision stand.\n\nThe proceedings of the disciplinary council are summarized on a Report of Church Disciplinary Action form. This form is sent to the office of the First Presidency where the information it contains is permanently stored. It is also reviewed by the body hearing the appeal if an appeal is made.\nThe membership record of a member that is disfellowshipped or placed on formal probation is updated to note the status of the member. If the member changes congregations while under church discipline, the membership record will inform the new ward or branch leadership of the disciplinary action. After church discipline has ended the membership record will again be updated to remove notice of the disciplinary action. The membership records provided to ward and branch leaders normally do not contain information regarding past discipline; however, a membership record is annotated when a person has been disciplined for incest, sexual or serious physical abuse of a child, plural marriage, an elective transsexual operation, repeated homosexual activities by adults, embezzlement of church funds or property, or other conduct that, in the church's view, \"threatens the well being of other persons or of the Church.\" Annotations may be removed from a membership record if a stake president makes a request to do so and the First Presidency approves the removal.\n\nStake presidents are permitted to request records of past discipline of members of their stake from the office of the First Presidency. Bishops may request records of past discipline of members of their ward.\n\nIn the case of excommunication, the excommunicated person is removed from church records.\n\nThe LDS Church has instructed leaders that a disciplinary council is mandatory when evidence suggests that a member of the church may have committed any of the following offences against the standards of the church:\n\nThe LDS Church has instructed leaders that a disciplinary council \"may\" be appropriate when evidence suggests that a member of the church may have committed any of the following offences against the standards of the church. Whether or not a disciplinary council will be held will depend on the facts of the situation and is generally left to the discretion of the bishop or stake president.\n\nThe LDS Church has instructed leaders that disciplinary councils are not appropriately held to resolve or deal with the following circumstances:\n\nA disciplinary council may reach one of four possible outcomes:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23531722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23531722", "title": "Dominium", "text": "Dominium\n\nDominium, a legal term meaning \"Dominion; control; ownership,\" forms several related compounds in legal Latin:\n\nIn general, \"utilization\" of resources on the property is subject to a reasonableness test. A life tenant with \"dominium directum\" of an estate may make reasonable use of resources, which means roughly renewable or trivial usage: the culling of firewood in the midst of an expansive forest, or the extraction of coal sufficient for home use from a fecund mine. Any commercialization (e.g. selling rights to the coal shaft) or large-scale exploitation (raising extensive erections on the estate using the timber resources) will implicate the \"dominium utile\" reserved to the holder in reversion and be subject to legal action at common law.\n\n"}
{"id": "10053873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10053873", "title": "E-2 visa", "text": "E-2 visa\n\nThe E-2 Investor Visa allows an individual to enter and work inside of the United States based on an investment he or she will be controlling, while inside the United States. The E2 visa is good for three months to five years (depending on the country of origin) and can be extended indefinitely. The investment must be \"substantial.\" Investor visas are available only to citizens of certain countries. E-2 visas are also available to non-investor employees of the business, as long as the persons are of the same nationality as the investor and are destined for a role in the US business that is either executive/supervisory or requires specialized skills that are essential to the efficient operation of the US enterprise.\n\nFor new startups, the investment must be large enough to start and operate the business. The amount of investment varies on the type of business. The investment will not be considered substantial if it is not large enough to capitalize the venture. The USCIS will use an \"Inverted Sliding Scale\" to determine whether the investment is substantial in proportion to the overall cost of the enterprise.\n\nUpon conclusion of the business, investors must return to their countries of origin, or change their status. The United States Department of State does not allow dual intent for this type of visa, although it is possible for E-2 visa holders to adjust their status to immigrant status. The holder of an E-2 visa may leave the United States at any time.\n\nBecause there is no dedicated dependent visa class for E-2 visas, spouses and unmarried children (under 21) may receive derivative E-2 visas in order to accompany the principal immigrant. The duration of visa for a family member who is of a different nationality from the principal is determined by any reciprocal agreements between their country of nationality and the US. Only if there is no such reciprocal agreement will the duration be the same as the principal applicant. Dependents may seek employment in the US by applying for employment authorization using Form I-765, Application for Employment Authorization. Children under 21 cannot apply for work; only the spouse of the E-2 holder can.\n\nEach visa applicant must pay a nonrefundable $205 nonimmigrant visa application processing fee and a visa issuance reciprocity fee for certain countries.\n\nThe required documents are:\n\n\nApplicants should generally apply at the U.S. Embassy or Consulate accredited to their place of permanent residence. As part of the visa application process, an interview at the embassy consular section is required for visa applicants from age 14 through 79. Persons age 13 and younger, and age 80 and older, generally do not require an interview, unless requested by embassy or consulate.\n\nDuring the visa application process, usually at the interview, an ink-free, digital fingerprint scan will be taken before the interview. Some applicants will need additional screening, and will be notified when they apply. The E-2 visa application process vary from Consular Posts in one country to another country as there is often difference in policies and visa processing procedures.\n\n"}
{"id": "10349221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10349221", "title": "Ezmo", "text": "Ezmo\n\nEzmo was a free, online music player launched on 8 June 2007 which allowed users to stream and share their personal music collections. Ezmo was in its beta phase when it was discontinued on 14 March 2008 due to a lack of funding. The service used technology from Fast Search & Transfer and Adobe Flex. Ezmo was a fully owned subsidiary of Fast Search & Transfer.\n\nEzmo was launched in Europe before it was made available in the United States on 25 October 2007.\n\nUsers could upload music from iTunes or Windows Media Player to their Ezmo accounts, and share their songs with up to ten friends.\n\nA mobile application for Ezmo was launched in early 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "5734949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5734949", "title": "FOID (firearms)", "text": "FOID (firearms)\n\nIn the United States state of Illinois, a FOID card (pronounced \"a foid card\" or \"an F.O.I.D. card\"), is a Firearm Owners Identification card – and residents need one to legally possess or purchase firearms or ammunition in the state. The applicable law has been in effect since 1968, but has been subject to several subsequent amendments.\n\nThe FOID card is issued by the Illinois State Police, with the application being submitted either online or via a paper application process. Police first perform a check of the applicant on the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS), an electronic database maintained by the FBI. Grounds for disqualification include a conviction for a felony or for an act of domestic violence, a conviction for assault or battery within the last five years, or being the subject of an order of protection. The police also check an Illinois Department of Human Services database, to disqualify any applicant who has been adjudicated as a mental defective, or who has been a patient of a mental institution within the last five years. Mental health professionals are required to inform state authorities about patients who display violent, suicidal or threatening behavior, for inclusion in the Human Services database. The police may also check other sources of information. There are additional requirements for applicants under the age of 21. \n\nA FOID card legally must be granted within 30 days from the date the application is received, unless the applicant does not qualify. However, by January 2006, the backlog had increased and the State Police were taking as long as 50 days, in violation of the law, to issue or deny the FOID. By March 2013 the delay was often at least 60 days. Cards issued on or after June 1, 2008 are valid for ten years; cards issued prior to June 1, 2008 were valid for five years. The application fee for the card is ten dollars. The FOID card will be revoked before its expiration if the individual becomes disqualified as described above.\n\nIllinois law requires that, when a firearm is sold by a Federal Firearms License (FFL) holder, or at a gun show, the seller perform a dial-up inquiry to the State Police to verify that the buyer's FOID card is valid. This additional check is known as the Firearm Transfer Inquiry Program (FTIP). At the time of the inquiry, the police perform an automated search of several criminal and mental health databases, including the federal NICS database. (Generally, FFLs in all states must request a background check through the NICS before selling a firearm; however in some states non-FFL purchasers who possess certain state-issued firearms permits, e.g., a permit to carry a concealed handgun, may purchase firearms from FFLs without undergoing a point-of-sale NICS check.) For private sales not at a gun show, the seller must also verify the buyer's FOID card with the state police, and receive a transfer approval number, either via a web site or with a phone call.\n\nIn 2011, in the case of \"People v. Holmes\", the Illinois Supreme Court ruled that non-Illinois residents who are permitted to possess a firearm in their home state are not required to have an Illinois FOID card when in possession of firearms or ammunition in Illinois.\n\n"}
{"id": "17984491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17984491", "title": "Fiber-reinforced composite", "text": "Fiber-reinforced composite\n\nA fiber-reinforced composite (FRC) is a composite building material that consists of three components: (i) the fibers as the discontinuous or dispersed phase, (ii) the matrix as the continuous phase, and (iii) the fine interphase region, also known as the interface. This is a type of advanced composite group, which makes use of rice husk, rice hull, and plastic as ingredients. This technology involves a method of refining, blending, and compounding natural fibers from cellulosic waste streams to form a high-strength fiber composite material in a polymer matrix. The designated waste or base raw materials used in this instance are those of waste thermoplastics and various categories of cellulosic waste including rice husk and saw dust.\nFRC is high-performance fiber composite achieved and made possible by cross-linking cellulosic fiber molecules with resins in the FRC material matrix through a proprietary molecular re-engineering process, yielding a product of exceptional structural properties.\n\nThrough this feat of molecular re-engineering selected physical and structural properties of wood are successfully cloned and vested in the FRC product, in addition to other critical attributes to yield performance properties superior to contemporary wood.\n\nThis material, unlike other composites, can be recycled up to 20 times, allowing scrap FRC to be reused again and again.\n\nThe failure mechanisms in FRC materials include delamination, intralaminar matrix cracking, longitudinal matrix splitting, fiber/matrix debonding, fiber pull-out, and fiber fracture.\n\nDifference between wood plastic composite and fiber-reinforced composite:\nThe appropriate \"average\" of the individual phase properties to be used in describing composite tensile behavior can be elucidated with reference to Fig. 6.2. Although\n\nthis figure illustrates a plate-like composite, the results that follow are equally applicable to fiber composites having similar phase arrangements. The two phase\n\nmaterial of Fig. 6.2 consists of lamellae of formula_1 and formula_2 phases of thickness formula_3 and formula_4. and respectively. Thus, the volume fractions (formula_5, formula_6) of the phases are formula_7 and formula_8.\n\nCase I: Same stress, different strain\n\nA tensile force F is applied normal to the broad faces (dimensions Lx L) of the phases. In this arrangement the stress borne by each of the phases (= F/formula_9) is the same, but the strains (formula_10, formula_11) they experience are different. composite strain is a volumetric weighted average of the strains of the individual phases. \n\nformula_12, formula_13\n\nThe total elongation of the composite, formula_14 is obtained as formula_15\n\nand the composite strain formula_16 is, formula_16=formula_18=formula_19= formula_20\n\nComposite modulus formula_21\n\nCase II: different stress, same strain\n\nFibers that are aligned parallel to the tensile axis, the strains in both phases are equal (and the same as the composite strain), but the external force is partitioned\n\nunequally between the phases. formula_22\n\nformula_23\n\nformula_24\n\nWhen the fiber is aligned parallel to the direction of the matrix and applied the load as the same strain case. \nThe fiber and matrix has the volume fraction formula_25, formula_26; stress formula_27 , formula_28; strainformula_29,formula_30; and modulus formula_31, formula_32. And here formula_29=formula_29=formula_16. The uniaxial stress-strain response of a fiber composite can be divided into several stages.\n\nIn stage 1, when the fiber and matrix both deform elastically, the stress and strain relation is\nformula_36\n\nformula_37\n\nIn stage 2, when the stress for the fiber is bigger than the yield stress, the matrix starts to deform plastically, and the fiber are still elastic, the stress and strain relation is\n\nformula_38\n\nformula_39\n\nIn stage 3, when the matrix the fiber both deform plastically, the stress and strain relation is\n\nformula_40\n\nformula_41\n\nSince some fibers do not deform permanently prior to fracture, stage 3 cannot be observed in some composite. \n\nIn stage 4, when the fiber has already become fracture and matrix still deforms plastically, the stress and strain relation is\n\nformula_42\n\nHowever, it is not completely true, since the failure fibers can still carry some load.\n\nThere are also applications in the market, which utilize only waste materials. Its most widespread use is in outdoor deck floors, but it is also used for railings, fences, landscaping timbers, cladding and siding, park benches, molding and trim, window and door frames, and indoor furniture. See for example the work of \"Waste for Life\", which collaborates with garbage scavenging cooperatives to create fiber-reinforced building materials and domestic problems from the waste their members collect: Homepage of Waste for Life\n\n\n3. Thomas H. Courtney. \"Mechanical Behavior of Materials\". 2nd Ed. Waveland Press, Inc. 2005. \n"}
{"id": "28822492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28822492", "title": "Florida Journal of International Law", "text": "Florida Journal of International Law\n\nThe Florida Journal of International Law is a law review established in 1984 devoted to timely discussion of international legal issues. Recent articles have treated subjects as varied as international trade and commerce law, human rights law, terrorism, national security, war crimes, international environmental law, international intellectual property, and maritime law. It is published three times a year and is student-run. The journal is based at the University of Florida Levin College of Law.\n\n"}
{"id": "30086263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30086263", "title": "Formulary apportionment", "text": "Formulary apportionment\n\nFormulary apportionment, also known as unitary taxation, is a method of allocating profit earned (or loss incurred) by a corporation or corporate group to a particular tax jurisdiction in which the corporation or group has a taxable presence. It is an alternative to separate entity accounting, under which a branch or subsidiary within the jurisdiction is accounted for as a separate entity, requiring prices for transactions with other parts of the corporation or group to be assigned according to the arm's length standard commonly used in transfer pricing. In contrast, formulary apportionment attributes the corporation's total worldwide profit (or loss) to each jurisdiction, based on factors such as the proportion of sales, assets or payroll in that jurisdiction. \n\nWhen applied to a corporate group, formulary apportionment requires combined reporting of the group's results. The parent and all of its subsidiaries are viewed as though they were a single entity (\"unitary combination\"), and the method is then also known as \"worldwide unitary taxation\". In the US, most states have adopted water's edge combined reporting which restricts the taxable group to just US domestic corporations and excludes \"overseas business organization\", i.e., unitary foreign affiliates and foreign parents.\n\nFormulary methods are used in both the United States and Canada to apportion income of corporations between the sub-national jurisdictions in which they operate. In many U.S. states formulary apportionment is also used to apportion the combined income of a related group of companies. Tax in each US state is thus assessed based on the unitary combination of all related entities. The related entities included in the unitary combination may be worldwide entities or only entities within the United States, depending on the state. The latter is known as water's edge combined reporting. \n\nWorldwide unitary combined reporting was first approved by the US Supreme Court in 1983 in Container Corp. v. Franchise Tax Board (CA) by a vote of 5-3 (Justice Stevens did not participate). The court re-visited worldwide combined reporting in 1994 in Barclays Bank v. Franchise Tax Board (CA) and Colgate-Palmolive v. Franchise Tax Board (CA) and again approved its use by California but this time by larger majorities. The votes were 7-2 and 9-0, respectively. However, as a result of foreign retaliatory legislation and pressure from the federal government, all states have now abandoned mandatory worldwide combined reporting.\n\nThe use of formulary apportionment in the United States dates back to the late 19th century. At that time, there was no state or federal corporate income tax, but the states did assess property and capital stock taxes. With the growth of the transcontinental railroads, state taxation authorities faced companies which had not just immovable property (tracks) but also non-trivial movable property (rolling stock) operating across state lines. The property value of a company assessable to state tax was thus assessed by examining the proportion of value of railway lines within the state, and then taking that proportion of the company's total value (including the movable property) as the portion of value located within a certain state. When Wisconsin adopted a state income tax in 1911, it also used formulary apportionment (based on property, cost of manufacture, and sales), pointing to the impracticality of otherwise calculating separate accounts for companies operating in multiple states.\n\nBy the mid-20th century, the \"Massachusetts Formula\" had become a commonly used standard of formulary apportionment. The formula placed an equal weight on three factors: group sales, payroll, and property within each jurisdiction. Out of the forty-four states (plus one more jurisdiction, the District of Columbia) which imposed a corporate income tax in 1978, all but Iowa used the Massachusetts Formula. Iowa's formula ignored payroll and property, looking solely at sales; the constitutionality of this formula was challenged in the \"Moorman\" case in Iowa, and it was held invalid by a trial court under the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment as well as the Commerce Clause of Article One; however, the Iowa Supreme Court reversed the trial court in 1978. This marked the beginning of a trend towards increasing weight on sales at the expense of the other two factors; by 2004, there were only twelve states still using an equally weighted formula.\n\nFormulary apportionment is not used as a method of attributing profit between (rather than within) national tax jurisdictions. The adoption of formulary apportionment has been advocated at various times since the 1970s. The matter has been hotly debated by OECD member states beginning in the 1970s. In 2000 Joann Weiner and Charles E. McLure Jr. proposed the use of formulary apportionment within the European Union. In 2001, the EU issued a communication advocating the use of formulary apportionment. In 2007 Kimberley A. Clausing and Reuven Avi-Yonah suggested that the US Internal Revenue Service use formulary apportionment in the assessment of federal corporate income tax, believing it would lead to increased tax revenue in the face of a trend for multinational corporations to use transfer pricing to shift profits out of the US into low-tax countries. None of these suggestions has been adopted.\n\nSeveral US states allow, but do not mandate, that a corporate group include foreign entities for the purpose of assessing factors used in formulary apportionment (\"worldwide unitary combination\"). California, for example, began to accept worldwide unitary combination in the 1940s. However, its attempt to \"require\" such combination led to strong protests from US trading partners. The UK-US double taxation treaty signed in 1975 included a provision to prohibit US states from \"tak[ing] into account the income, deductions, receipts, or out-goings of a related enterprise\" in the United Kingdom or any other country for the purpose of determining tax liability. However, the US Senate, whose consent was required to ratify the treaty, rejected this provision, and the treaty was amended by a protocol in 1979. The Supreme Court explicitly held worldwide unitary combination as constitutional in separate cases in 1983 and 1994 (Barclays Bank PLC v. Franchise Tax Board). In 1985 the United Kingdom passed retaliatory legislation which would have overridden the UK-US tax treaty and denied significant UK tax benefits to corporations headquartered in US states which applied worldwide unitary taxation. This and further pressure from foreign governments, the executive branch and multinational corporations led US states to adopt a \"water's edge\" limitation on unitary combination, allowing taxpayers to decide for themselves whether or not to include foreign entities in their combined reporting.\n\nAdvocates claim that transfer pricing issues increase compliance costs, formulary apportionment reduces those costs and treating associated enterprises in a unitary fashion more closely reflects the underlying operating realities of multinational enterprises.\n\nCritics argue:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24733808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24733808", "title": "Francis Muguet", "text": "Francis Muguet\n\nFrancis Fabien Michel Muguet (1955–2009) was a French chemist who advocated open access to information.\n\nMuguet graduated with a Ph.D from Texas Tech University with a thesis on water chemistry in 1992. His advisor was G. Wilse Robinson.\nHe also held a law degree. He was a researcher at ENSTA (Ecole Nationale Superieure de Techniques Avancées) from 1993 to 2009 and worked, during the last months of his life, as a consultant for International Telecommunication Union (ITU) and the University of Geneva.\n\nDefender of the free and open access to scientific content, he chaired the Civil Society Scientific Information Working Group, and co-ordinated a group on patents, trademarks and copyrights at the World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS).\n\nMuguet is also known for designing the pattern of global patronage which aims to answer the legal argument raised against the global license under the Berne Convention on copyright. The sponsorship was supported by his friend Richard Stallman who co-authored with him the Declaration of Louisiana at a workshop organized by the French Society of the Internet on March 12, 2009. Muguet was then one of the founders of the SARD, a Society of acceptance and distribution of gifts inspired by the principles of global patronage.\nHis daughter found him on October 14, dead after not answering his mail for several days.\nFollowing the announcement of his death, a change was made in the process of printing the book \"La bataille Hadopi\", to which he had contributed, dedicating it to him.\n\nMuguet was active in the World Network for Linguistic Diversity and point of contact for the Dynamic Coalition for Linguistic Diversity of the Internet Governance Forum and a member of ICVolunteers. From 2001 to 2005, he was Associate Editor MDPI Center Basel.\n\n"}
{"id": "49945445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49945445", "title": "Garware Plastics and Polyester vs Telelink", "text": "Garware Plastics and Polyester vs Telelink\n\nFacts\n\nThe case was handled by the Bombay High Court, citation of the case AIR 1989 Bom 331 and was decided by Justice S. Manohar. In this case, the plaintiffs (Garware Plastics and Polyester) had the right as way of assignment to telecast a cinematography film by means of video cassettes. One of the plaintiffs has granted the right of telecasting their films to the Government of India on their channel Doordarshan but have retained with themselves the right to telecast films via cable TV.\n\nThe defendant (Telelinks) bought the copyrighted videocassettes of the plaintiff and have shown the film on their Cable T.V. Thereby infringing the copyright of the plaintiff in respect to public performance which is an exclusive right granted under the Indian Copyright Act, 1957.\n\nMain question of law\n\nWhether by showing video films over Cable T.V. to various subscribers the defendants are broadcasting video films to the public and have infringed the copyright of the plaintiffs.\n\nMain statutory provisions applied\n\nUnder Section 13(1), \"“A copyright is recognized in respect to cinematography films”.[1] Under S. 2(f), “Cinematography film”\", is defined to \"“include the sound track, if any, and cinematography shall be constructed as including any work produced by any process analogous to cinematography”\".\n\nS. 14(1)(c), “\"\"copyright in a cinematography film\", means the exclusive right to do or authorize the doing of any of the following acts, namely: (I) to make a copy of the film: (ii) to cause the film, in so far as it consists if visual images, to be seen in public and, in so far as it consists of sounds, to be heard in public : (iii) to make any record embodying the recording in any part of the sound track associated with the film by utilizing such sound track: (iv) to communicate the film by broadcast.\"”\n\nS. 51. \"\"Copyright in a work shall be deemed to be infringed, inter alia, when any person, without a license granted by the Copyright under the Act, does anything the exclusive right to do which is by this Act conferred upon the owner of the copyright.\"\n\nContention of the Defendant\n\nThe defendant argued that showing the film by means of cable t.v, the broadcast is only limited to private space of the subscribers; therefore it isn’t a broadcast to the public.\n\nVarious Case laws applied in the case\n\nTo understand the difference between public and private broadcasting the following cases were referred to in the case.\n\n\"1.In Harms (Incorporated), Ltd and Chappell and Company Ltd vs Martans Club Limited\"\n\nThe plaintiffs were the owners of a play, “Tip Toes”. The defendant was a club, the club showed the play in the club. The main question before the court was, whether such an act was in public?\n\nThe court held that the purpose of the Act was to protect the author from any injury or loss of profit by reasons of any representation of his composition in public, which would have ordinarily fetched him financial gain. The Court distinguished “such an audience from a private or domestic audience which would consist of members of the family and members of the household. The court also considered the place where the performance took place. And held that the club, which accepted members from the public and guests, cannot be considered as a place which was equivalent to an enlarged family.\n\n\"2.Messager vs British Broadcasting Company, Ltd\"\n\nThe plaintiff was the composer of a comic opera, “\"The little Michus”\", he gave the right to perform the opera to the producer, who in turn gave a license to BBC to broadcast it. The plaintiff filed a suit against BBC as he didn’t have a contract with them. BBC argued that the performance of the opera would take place in the privacy of its studio thereby as per the English Copyright Act, this wasn’t a broadcast to the public. The Court however rejected this assertion and held that since the opera was to be broadcast via wireless technology it was a broadcast to the public.\n\nThe decision was reverted by the Court of Appeals, stating the agreement between the plaintiff and the producer and BBC.\n\n3. \"Jennings vs Stephens\"\n\nThe Duston Women’s Institute without the consent of the plaintiff performed a performance of a copyrighted play. The Court concluded, that, \"“mere numbers cannot be the test.”\" The Court held, the true test is the, \"“character of the audience.”\"\n\nThe second test as given by the Court was, \"“ in public\"\", must be understood in relation to the owner of the copyright, that is performing in front of his/her public.\n\nThe Court held that the performance was performed in private.\n\n\"4.Performance Right Society Ltd vs Hawthorns Hotel Ltd\"\n\nThe Court applied the above test in this case and held that the performance in the lounge of the hotel was a performance in public.\n\n\"5. Ernest Turner Electrical Instruments Ltd vs Performance Right Society Ltd\"\n\nThe court applied the Jennings vs Stephens test to see the nature of music being played at work place.\n\n\"6.Perforing Right Society Ltd vs Hammons Brandford Brewery Co. Ltd\"\n\nIn this case the court held importance on nature of the place where the performance took place. In this case, the plaintiff had given a license to the defendant to play the music in the hotel but the defendant used loudspeakers which by standers could also hear, the court held that this was a performance in public.\n\n\"7. Performing Rights Society Ltd vs Camelo\"\n\nThe fact of the case as similar to the Brandford Brewery case, the defendant used loudspeakers which could be heard in the adjacent buildings, the court held there was an infringement because it was performed in public.\n\n\"8. Mellor vs Australian Broadcasting Commission\"\n\nThe plaintiff by way of pamphlets stated their music was free for public performance, the plaintiff brought a suit of infringement against the defendant, the Privy Council, stated, “\"The original performance in the studio may be, and generally will be, a performance in private. In such a case the broadcast performance at the receiving end., if in public and unlicensed, will be an infringements of copyright at that place... If the broadcast is picked up only by listeners in private it might be different to establish that there is a public performance : for each performance would be separate, and each would be private: but it is not necessary to express an opinion on this point.”\"\n\nThe Privy Council stated it didn’t express an opinion on whether the performance was in public or private.\n\nObservations of the Bombay High Court\n\nThe Bombay High Court observations were guided by the various English cases. In most of these cases the owner of the copyright did give protection. In trying to answer the question of law presented before the court, the concluded three main conditions for the determination of where a work is performed in public or private, they are\n\nAnswering the first condition - Trying to answer the first one, the Court held that of course the movie is being viewed in the privacy of the home, but that doesn’t negate the fact that is can be seen by others in public setting. While explaining this situation, the Court, used the opined of Justice Mc Cardie in Messager v. British Broadcasting Company Ltd, \"“instead of gathering the audience in a theater, the defendants, by modern technology, are showing the film to that audience in their homes. To hold that this is not communication to the public would be to ignore the substance of the matter and the object and intent of the Copyright Act.\"”, thus the viewers are members of the public.\n\nAnswer to the second condition – The second condition related to the relationship between the owner of the copyright and the views, the Court held, that these viewers aren’t the domestic viewers of the plaintiff but rather members of the public.\n\nAnswer to the third condition – the last condition is generally used to determine the character of the audience in respect to the Indian Copyright Act,1957. The court opined the main aim of the Act is to give monetary gains to the owner for his/her intellectual property, the Court held that since the defendant charge a fee for the cable services he has deprived the owner of the copyright.\n\nThe Court, concluded, \"“In my view, a strong prima facie case has been made out by the plaintiffs for granting them interim relief. Undoubtedly the business of the defendants will be affected as a result. But the plaintiffs will be severely affected if their copyright in the films is not protected, while the defendants can show the films after obtaining a licence under the Copyright Act.”\"\n\nJudgment of the Court\n\nThe Court gave an interim order against the defendants from showing the film via cable t.v.\n\nSimilar Landmark case from the United States of America\n\n\"American Broadcasting vs Aereo, Inc\"\n\nIn this case, the defendant provided an online facility for its viewers to view T.V. programs while they were being aired on the television. The owners of the programs who were producers contended that they are the copyright owners of the programs, and the action of the defendant amounted to infringements. The Court opined, that the defendant wasn’t showing the programs for free, they were showing them to their subscribers after they had paid a fee. They held that the defendant was depriving the copyright owners of their monetary gains from their intellectual property.\n\nThe U.S. Supreme Court held, the right to broadcast to the public was an exclusive right of the copyright owner as per the American Copyright Act, 1976, and they decided in favor of the plaintiff.\n\n"}
{"id": "15353016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15353016", "title": "Ghanaian governmental referendum, 1978", "text": "Ghanaian governmental referendum, 1978\n\nA referendum on the system of government was held in Ghana on 30 March 1978.\n\nIn December 1971 the government of Kofi Abrefa Busia drastically devalued the cedi. However, the authorities' inability to control the subsequent inflationary pressures led to discontent, and military officers seized power in a bloodless coup on 13 January 1972.\n\nThe coup leaders, led by Col. Ignatius Kutu Acheampong, formed the National Redemption Council (NRC) to which they admitted other officers, the head of the police, and one civilian. The NRC promised improvements in the quality of life for all Ghanaians and based its programs on nationalism, economic development, and self-reliance. In 1975, a government reorganization resulted in the NRC's replacement by the Supreme Military Council (SMC), also headed by now-General Acheampong.\n\nUnable to deliver on its promises, the NRC/SMC became increasingly marked by mismanagement and rampant corruption. In 1977, General Acheampong brought forward the concept of union government (UNIGOV), which would make Ghana a non-party state. \n\nThe referendum posed the question:\n\nThere were 4,497,803 registered voters for the referendum.\n\nAlthough the referendum passed, professional groups and students perceived UNIGOV to be ploy by Acheampong to retain power, and continued the strikes and demonstrations against the government which had begun in 1977. The steady erosion in Acheampong's power led to his arrest in July 1978 by his chief of staff, Lt. Gen. Fred Akuffo, who replaced him as head of state and leader of what became known as the SMC-2.\n\nAkuffo abandoned UNIGOV and established a plan to return to constitutional and democratic government. A Constitutional Assembly was established, and political party activity was revived. Akuffo was unable to solve Ghana's economic problems, however, or to reduce the rampant corruption in which senior military officers played a major role. On 4 June 1979, his government was deposed in a violent coup by a group of junior and non-commissioned officers - the Armed Forces Revolutionary Council (AFRC) - with Flt. Lt. Jerry Rawlings as its chairman. Presidential and parliamentary elections were held in the summer of 1979.\n"}
{"id": "1841220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1841220", "title": "Gun laws in Switzerland", "text": "Gun laws in Switzerland\n\nFirearms legislation in Switzerland allows the free purchase of semi-automatic, but not fully automatic firearms by Swiss citizens and foreigners with permanent residence.\nPermits for concealed carrying in public are issued sparingly. The acquisition of fully automatic weapons, silencers and target lasers likewise requires special permits issued by the cantonal firearms office. Use of hollow-point and soft-point ammunition is limited to hunting.\n\nThe applicable federal legislations are \"SR 514.54 Federal Law on Weapons, Weapon Equipment and Ammunition\" (, , ) of 20 June 1997 (current edition of 1. July 2016, revised 01.01.1999), and \"SR 514.541 Ordinance on Weapons, Armament Accessories and Ammunition\" (, , ) of 2 July 2008 (current edition of 1. July 2016, revised 12.12.2008). The Weapons Law recognises a qualified \"right to acquire, possess and carry arms\".\n\nSwiss gun culture has emerged from a long tradition of shooting (\"tirs\"), which served as a formative element of national identity in the post-Napoleonic Restoration of the Confederacy, and the long-standing practice of a militia organization of the Swiss Army in which soldiers' service rifles are stored privately at their homes. In addition to this, many cantons (notably the alpine cantons of Grisons and Valais) have strong traditions of hunting, accounting for a large but unknown number of privately held hunting rifles.\n\nSwitzerland thus has a relatively high gun ownership rate. There are no official statistics, and estimates vary considerably.\n\nThe 2017 report from Small Arms Survey has estimated that the number of civilian-held firearms in Switzerland is of 2.332 million, which given a population of 8.4 million corresponds to a gun ownership of around 27.6 guns per 100 residents.\n\nWhen Switzerland joined the Schengen Information System in 2008, it was forced to introduce a central registry for firearms. \nOnly firearms which changed hands since 2008 are registered. The number of registered firearms in this database\nwas reported as 876,000 as of August 2017.\n\nSwitzerland's Weapons Law (WG, LArm) and Weapons Act (WV, OArm) has been revised to accede to the Schengen Treaty effective 12 December 2008. The Act on Personal Military Equipment (VPAA, OEPM) governs the handling of military equipment, and in particular the handling of personal weapons by military personnel.\n\nThe law is applied to the following weapons:\n\nGenerally prohibited arms are:\n\nIn order to purchase most weapons, the purchaser must obtain a weapon acquisition permit (art. 8 WG/LArm). Swiss citizens and foreigners with a C permit over the age of 18 who are not psychiatrically disqualified nor identified as posing security problems, and who have a clean criminal record can request such a permit. Foreigners with citizenship to the following countries are explicitly excluded from the right to possess weapons: Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, Macedonia, Turkey, Sri Lanka, Algeria and Albania.\nThe following information must be provided to the cantonal weapon bureau together with the weapon application form:\n\nFor each transfer of a weapon or an essential weapon component without weapons acquisition permit (art. 10 WG/LArm), a written contract must be concluded. Each Party shall keep them at least ten years. The contract must include the following information (art. 11 WG/LArm):\n\nThis information must be sent within 30 days to the cantonal weapon registration bureau, where the weapon holders are registered (art. 9 WG/LArm).\n\nSome weapons do not need a weapon acquisition permit (art. 10 WG/LArm):\n\nIn order to purchase ammunition, the buyer must follow the same legal rules that apply when buying guns. The buyer must provide the following information to the seller (art. 15, 16 WG/LArm; art. 24 WV/OArm):\n\nThe possession of the following ammunition is generally prohibited:\n\nTo carry a firearm in public or outdoors (and for a militia member to carry a firearm other than his issued weapons while off-duty), a person must have a gun carrying permit (, , ; art. 27 WG/LArm), which in most cases is issued only to private citizens working in occupations such as security. It is, however, quite common to see a person in military service to be \"en route\" with his rifle, albeit unloaded. The issue of such exceptional permits are extremely selective (see #Conditions_for_obtaining_a_Carrying_Permit).\n\nHowever, it is permissible to carry firearms in public or outdoors if the holder (art. 27 § 4 WG/LArm):\n\nFurthermore, any licensed holder of a gun may \"transport\" an unloaded firearm for special situations (see #Transporting guns).\n\nThere are three conditions (art. 27 § 2 WG/LArm):\n\nThe carrying permit remains valid for a term of five years (unless otherwise surrendered or revoked), and applies only to the type of firearm for which the permit was issued. Additional constraints may be invoked to modify any specific permit. (art. 27 § 3 WG/LArm).\n\nGuns may be transported in public as long as an appropriate justification is present. This means to transport a gun in public, the following requirements apply (art. 28 WG/LArm):\n\nA 2017 amendment to the EU Firearms Directive, known as the \"EU Gun Ban\", introduces new restrictions on firearms possession and acquisition, especially on semi-automatic firearms, personal defense weapons, magazine capacity, blank firing guns and historical firearms. The restrictions must be introduced into the Swiss legal system by August 2018 due to its membership of the Schengen area.\n\nThe Directive also includes an exemption covering a specific Swiss issue – it allows possession to a \"target shooter\" of \"one\" firearm used during the mandatory military period after leaving the army, provided it was converted to semi-automatic only (art. 6(6) of the Amendment Directive). This part of the Directive specifically was however challenged by the Czech Republic before the European Court of Justice due to its discriminatory nature. The Czech Republic seeks nullification of the \"Swiss exemption\" as well as of other parts of the Directive.\n\nCivil rights organizations plan to hold a referendum to reject the recent EU directive. According to Swiss People's Party vice-president Christoph Blocher, Switzerland should consider abandoning EU's borderless Schengen Area if the Swiss people reject the proposed measures in a referendum.\n\nThe Swiss army has long been a militia trained and structured to rapidly respond against foreign aggression. Swiss males grow up expecting to undergo basic military training, usually at age 20 in the recruit school, the basic-training camp, after which Swiss men remain part of the \"militia\" in reserve capacity until age 30 (age 34 for officers).\n\nPrior to 2007, members of the Swiss Militia were supplied with 50 rounds of ammunition for their military weapon in a sealed ammo box that was regularly audited by the government. This was so that, in the case of an emergency, the militia could respond quickly.\nIn December 2007, the Swiss Federal Council decided that the distribution of ammunition to soldiers would stop and that previously issued ammo would be returned. By March 2011, more than 99% of the ammo has been received. Only 2,000 specialist militia members (who protect airports and other sites of particular sensitivity) are permitted to keep their military-issued ammunition at home. The rest of the militia get their ammunition from their military armory in the event of an emergency.\n\nWhen their period of service has ended, militia men have the choice of keeping their personal weapon and other selected items of their equipment. However, keeping the weapon after end of service requires a weapon acquisition permit (art. 11-15 VPAA/OEPM).\n\nThe government sponsors training with rifles and shooting in competitions for interested adolescents, both male and female. The sale of military-issued ammunitionincluding Gw Pat.90 rounds for army-issued assault riflesis subsidized by the Swiss government and made available at the many Federal Council licensed shooting ranges. That ammunition sold at ranges must be immediately used there under supervision (art. 16 WG/LArm).\n\nThe Swiss Army maintains tightened adherence to high standards of lawful military conduct. In 2005, for example, when the Swiss prosecuted recruits who had reenacted the torture scenes of Abu Ghraib, one of the charges was improper use of service weapons.\n\nRecreational shooting is widespread in Switzerland. Practice with guns is a popular form of recreation, and is encouraged by the government, particularly for the members of the militia.\n\nPrior to the turn of the century, about 200,000 people used to attend the annual \"Eidgenössisches Feldschiessen\", which is the largest rifle shooting competition in the world. In 2012 they counted 130,000 participants. For the 2015 Federal Shooting (\"Eidg. Schützenfest\") 37,000 shooters are registered. In addition, there are several private shooting ranges which rent guns.\n\nSwitzerland has a strong gun culture compared to other countries in the world. Groups like ProTell lobby for the preservation of Switzerland's gun rights. Additionally, the Schweizerischer Schützenverein, a Swiss shooting association, organizes the \"Eidgenössische Schützenfeste\", every five years and the \"Eidgenössisches Feldschiessen\" is held annually. Every person with a swiss citizenship, aged 10 years or older, can take part at any federal ranges and will be able to shoot for free with the ordinance rifle.\n\nAnother possibility for the kids to shoot is the Young Shooters: the SAT (lit. shooting and off-duty activities) oversees lessons in which Swiss children can learn how to shoot using the SIG SG 550. This activity is free and the Young Shooters are able to take home the rifle in-between the lessons if they are 17. For security reasons however, the breech has to stay at the range in which they attend the lesson. This training takes place over a span of 6 years within a 3-4 month period each year and, if wanted, they can become instructors for the new generation of Young Shooters.\n\nTraditionally liberal Swiss gun legislation has, however, been somewhat tightened in 2008, when Switzerland has complied with European Firearms Directive. Throughout the modern political history of Switzerland, there have been advocates for tighter gun control.\n\nThe most recent suggestion for tighter gun control was rejected in a popular referendum in February 2011.\n\nThe vast majority of firearm-related deaths in Switzerland are suicides. The suicide method of shooting oneself with a firearm accounted for 21.5% of suicides in Switzerland in the period of 2001–2012 (with significant gender imbalance: 29.7% of male suicides vs. 3.0% of female suicides).\n\nBy contrast, gun crime is comparatively limited. In 2016, there were 187 attempted and 45 completed homicides, for a homicide rate of 0.50 per 100,000 population. Of the recorded homicides (attempted or completed), 20.3% were committed with a gun (47 cases, compared to an average of 41 cases in the period of 2009–2015). In addition, there were 7 cases of bodily harm and 233 cases of robbery committed with firearms.\n\nThere were 16 completed homicides with a firearm in 2016. Of these, 14 were committed with a handgun, one with a long gun and one case marked \"other/unspecified\". None of the involved weapons were ordinance weapons issued by the Swiss Armed Forces. Similarly, out of 31 attempted homicides with firearms, 25 were committed with handguns, two with long guns and four \"other/unspecified\", with no use of ordinance weapons on record. For the period of 2009–2016, on average 16.5 out of 49.4 completed homicides were committed with a firearm, 13.8 with handguns, 1.9 with long guns and 0.9 \"other/unspecified\"; an average 0.75 cases per year (6 cases in eight years) involved ordinance weapons.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "218871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218871", "title": "Halsbury's Laws of England", "text": "Halsbury's Laws of England\n\nHalsbury's Laws of England is a uniquely comprehensive encyclopaedia of law, and provides the only complete narrative statement of law in England and Wales. It has an alphabetised title scheme covering all areas of law, drawing on authorities including Acts of the United Kingdom, Measures of the Welsh Assembly, UK case law and European law. It is written by or in consultation with experts in the relevant field.\n\n\"Halsbury's Laws\" has an annual and monthly updating service. The encyclopaedia and updates are available in both hard copy and online with some content available for free online.\n\nIn 1907 Stanley Shaw Bond, editor at Butterworths, began a project to produce a complete statement of the law of England and Wales that was authoritative, comprehensive and up-to-date. Bond tracked down the former Lord Chancellor, The Earl of Halsbury, on holiday in Nice to invite him to be the editor-in-chief of \"The Laws of England\".\n\nTraditionally, the role of editor-in-chief of \"Halsbury's Laws\" is held by a former Lord Chancellor, and the current incumbent is Lord Mackay of Clashfern.\n\nIn 2007, \"Halsbury's Laws\" celebrated its centenary with an evening of seminars led by Lord Mackay of Clashfern and professor Richard Susskind, and the publication of a collection of centenary essays.\n\nThe first edition was published in 31 volumes from 1907 to 1917. Since then, new editions have been launched at intervals of about 20 to 30 years.\n\nVolume 1 was published in 1907. Its articles run from action to bankers and banking. The volume deals with action, admiralty, agency, agriculture, aliens, allotments, animals, arbitration, auction, bailment and bankers and banking. \n\nVolume 2 was published in 1908. Its articles run from bankruptcy to bills of exchange. It contains but four treatises, upon bankruptcy and insolvency (335 pages), barristers (67 pages), bastardy (28 pages) and bills of exchange, promissory notes and negotiable instruments (124 pages).\n\nVolume 5 (companies) is devoted entirely to company law, and forms a treatise of 768 pages on that subject. After a general consideration of the nature and domicile of companies, the work considers briefly the history of company legislation. Then follows an elaborate treatise on the Companies Act 1908. Special companies, like banking, insurance and public service companies, are considered; as well as chartered companies, the livery companies of the city of London, quasi-corporations, and illegal companies; and a few pages are devoted to foreign companies. The reviewer in the \"Harvard Law Review\" thought the table of cases cited must contain at least five thousand cases. He said the importance of this treatise was at once apparent; and that to the commercial lawyer in the Eastern cities of the United States it would be exceedingly useful.\n\nThe articles in volume 11 run from descent to ecclesiastical law. It contains a short article on descent and distribution; a discussion of discovery, inspection and interrogatories, under the English practice; an elaborate article on distress; an article on easements and profits, which the \"Harvard Law Review\" said was the most interesting article in the volume to an American lawyer; and an elaborate disquisition on ecclesiastical law.\n\nThe articles in volume 12 run from education to electric lighting and power. The Harvard Law Review said that the articles on education and elections had comparatively little value to the American bar, but the hundred pages devoted to electric lighting and power were useful.\n\nVolume 20 was published in 1911. Its articles run from markets to misrepresentation. It contains articles on markets and fairs (59 pages), master and servant (221 pages), medicine and pharmacy (82 pages), the Metropolis (106 pages), mines, minerals and quarries (156 pages) and misrepresentation and fraud (110 pages). According to the \"Harvard Law Review\", the article on master and servant was of constant interest to an American lawyer; and that on misrepresentation and fraud, from the master hand of G Spencer Bower, was a valuable treatise in itself.\nVolume 21 was published in 1912. Its articles run from mistake to partition. It contains articles on mistake (34 pages), money and money lending (29 pages), mortgage (283 pages), negligence (134 pages), notaries (9 pages), nuisance (72 pages), Parliament (197 pages) and partition (59 pages). The \"Harvard Law Review\" said that the standard set by the preceding volumes appeared to be maintained and that the series, up to this volume, was a collection of very admirable treatises on English law.\n\nThe second edition was published in 37 volumes from 1932 to 1941. The editor-in-chief was Viscount Hailsham. The managing editor was Sir Roland Burrows. The second edition of volume 5 was published in 1949. The second and subsequent editions of the encyclopaedia took the name of the said Earl of Halsbury.\n\nThe third edition was published in 43 volumes from 1952 to 1964. The general editor was Lord Simonds.\n\nThe fourth edition was published in 56 volumes from 1973 to 1987. The editor-in-chief was Lord Hailsham of St Marylebone. The editor-in-chief of volumes reissued from August 1998 onwards was Lord Mackay of Clashfern.\n\nPublication of the fifth edition began in 2008 and is being published in 103 volumes. It will have a new title scheme, a new updating service, and improved integration of European law. New titles for the fifth edition include, \"Sports Law\", \"Information Technology Law\", \"Financial Services and Institutions\", \"Judicial Review\" and \"Environmental Quality and Public Health\".\n\nThe Halsbury Legal Awards debuted in 2013. They celebrate the value that people in law bring to society. The theme of the awards is: \"The Whole of the law. Connected.\n\nThe awards recognise the achievements and talents of individuals and teams across the entire legal sector. The Bar, legal practice, in-house counsel, academia and legal journalism are all recognised, as are contribution to the promotion, growth and value of the sector.\n\nThe Halsbury Awards, in association with the British and Irish Association of Law Librarians, were sponsored by Halsbury's Laws from 2007-2012. They recognise outstanding performance given by legal information services, law libraries and teams managing legal collections and resources.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13798888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13798888", "title": "History of Argentine nationality", "text": "History of Argentine nationality\n\nIdeas and practices of nationality and citizenship in the Republic of Argentina (and before that, in the Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata and the Inca Empire) have changed with distinct periods of its history, including but not limited to periods of indigenous, colonial, republican, and military rule. \n\nThese periods, in which political rights were often denied to both citizens and non-citizens, encouraged the development of resistance movements. This history of resistance and fighting for political rights is deeply imbedded in the modern Argentine notion of citizenship.\n\nThe Inca Empire was a conglomeration of conquered ethnic groups - \"etnías\" - ruled by ethnic Inca from the Cuzco-Lake Titicaca Basin in what is now central Peru. They called their empire \"Tiwantinsuyu,\" meaning \"four corners.\" Modern northern and western Argentina was a part of Kollasuyu. The Inca elite imposed their own institutions on conquered territories, while at the same time incorporating local customs on a case-by-case basis. Because the Argentine portion of Kollasuyu was on the edge of the empire the communities there had even more local autonomy than elsewhere in the empire, but were still subject to Inca protection and duties through the mita system of reciprocity. At the same time, Inca statebuilding was based on the threat of violence. \nThis interplay of threat and promise, combined with the ethnic diversity of the conquered groups, created an Inca citizenship that was not ethnic but territorial and administrative, and based on a reciprocal relationship of rights and duties. Though citizens were ultimately loyal to their particular \"etnías\" and communities (ayllus), the Inca Empire's formal structures were a clear and unifying presence, even at its edges.\n\nThe Inca state functioned through a complex system of labour extraction and tribute which consolidated their power over conquered regions. This tribute always took the form of people and their time, and was couched in kinship terms.\nCensuses were conducted using the quipu, and individual ethnic groups were assigned unique goods and public services to provide as their tax. In return, citizens received immediate rewards (like feasts), as well as the promise that their ayllus would be provided protection from enemies and food if, for example, their harvests failed.\n\n\nAfter being colonised by the Spanish, Argentina was made part of the Viceroyalty of Peru. In 1776 it became part of the new, and ultimately short-lived, Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata. Throughout Spanish America, citizenship was both a legal and a social status that was implicit rather than formal, and largely informed by one's racial and class background. As in the Inca Empire, the colonising power's concepts were combined with the unique dictates of the situation in the colony itself.\n\n\"Vecino\" was the blanket term for community member in Spain and colonial and independent Spanish America, and is rather more extensive than the modern \"citizen\", implying ownership of property and respectability. The criteria for being a \"vecino\" were never defined in legislation, but rather conceived of as a natural, general rule. It is a nuanced, personal status directly related to a person's standing within the community. Shaped by the conditions in the colony, the term took on a broader meaning in the Americas than it had in Spain itself, where citizenship and nationality were not concerns for most, and where the racial makeup was more homogenous.\n\n\"Naturaleza,\" meaning \"naturaleness\" or \"nativeness,\" was a second term for citizenship in Spain and Spanish America. It usually applied to \"natives of the kingdoms of Spain,\" and was more closely linked to the Crown and subjecthood. Like \"vecindad,\" \"naturaleza\" was never clearly defined in the law, and took on a broader meaning than in Spain itself.\n\nThe Casta system of racial classification was the foundation of social order, and thus rights, throughout Spanish America.\n\nPeninsulares, Criollo (people)s, \"Indios\", and the growing group of mixed-race inhabitants (usually mestizos) all had different citizenship rights. \"Peninsulares\" had the full rights and privileges of \"naturaleza,\" and were the most esteemed in society and therefore were the ideal \"vecinos.\" \"Criollos\" were the most common in Buenos Aires, and were \"naturales\" and \"vecinos\" too, though with an implicitly lower status. \"Indios\" and \"mestizos\" were, initially, excluded from citizenship status entirely.\n\nThe presence of non-Spanish Europeans in the Viceroyalties of Peru and Rio de La Plata was, officially, illegal. Though “insiders” and “outsiders” were not explicitly defined in the viceroyalties, Spanish law did differentiate between the two by granting privileges only to those considered members of the community. Because the concept of ‘community’ itself was poorly, if at all defined, non-members were deemed to be so on a case-by-case basis, based on community opinion and, where available, on precedent.\nIn order to become a member of the community, an outsider usually needed to prove that he was born in the territory, and culturally Spanish (Spanish speaking and writing, Catholic, etc.). In this way Spanish America tended towards jus soli (right by birthplace). Foreigners could apply to the \"audiencia\" for a license to remain in the viceroyalty, or they could apply to the Crown (through the Council of the Indies for naturalization. The former did not grant the foreigner any rights, while the latter \"carta de naturaleza\" granted most rights afforded to other members (with some exceptions, including the right to own and operate a business).\nObtaining the \"carta de naturaleza\" was a lengthier process requiring more proof of cultural Spanishness, and usually a monetary payment to a Crown office or official. It was considered a personal grant, and therefore a personal relationship with a Crown official was invaluable.\nColonial Buenos Aires was a relatively small frontier settlement threatened by the indigenous and Portuguese presence in the area, which gave the city's residents an especially acute sense of their Spanishness. To this end, city officials only allowed \"natives of the kingdoms of Spain\" (\"naturales\") to become citizens. Only foreigners who could provide a useful service to the city and who were considered culturally Spanish were granted the status. These individuals were almost always of non-Spanish European ancestry, and where rarely (if ever) indigenous or African. \nIn the 1610s, an oath for citizenship candidates was created that required them to possess a house and arms; however, the number of applicants dropped in subsequent years and the oath fell out of use.\n\nBy the eighteenth century, Indians were receiving citizenship statuses of their own. Initially classified as members of indigenous communities by birth, this status helped determine their labour (repartimiento) and taxation (\"tributo\") duties to the Crown. Still, the terms \"vecino\" and \"naturaleza\" were never officially applied.\n\nThe implicit valuing of \"peninsulares\" over \"criollos\" in Spanish America was a key point of contention in the debates over independence, particularly in the highly-literate city of Buenos Aires. Though they legally belonged to the same kingdom as \"naturalezas\", only \"criollos\" had been born in the Americas (as \"vecinos\"), and thus felt that they had a unique claim to the land, its administration, and the rights that would follow.\n\nThe Independence movement in Argentina was primarily \"criollo\" movement, and thus the citizenship laws made in its aftermath primarily affected the \"criollo\" population.\n\nLed by Domingo Faustino Sarmiento, Juan Bautista Alberdi, and Esteban Echeverria in response to the Rosas administration, the Generation of 1830 proposed a new, modern Argentina built on economic partnerships with Europe and European immigrants. Sarmiento’s “civilization or barbarism” and Alberdi’s “civil liberty for all, political liberty for a few” and \"to rule is to populate\" characterize the society they envisioned – one of order and progress, in which those qualified to run the state were men of European intellectual tradition. This more elitist approach to governance effectively proposed two tiers of citizenship.\n\nNo matter how close economic and cultural ties were (or were desired to be) with Europe, political discourse in the mid-nineteenth century up to Peronism after the Second World War made Europeans the counterpoint “other” to Argentine collective identity. Argentina was developing on the same economically liberal model as European powers (particularly Spain, Britain, and France), but improving on it.\n\nThe Argentine Constitution of 1853, the new republic's first constitution, does not contain any explicit references to citizenship, though as a product of its framers liberal thought it is very universalist in spirit, speaking of broad, universal rights that apply to all men. This contrasts with the practice of \"vecindad\", which is by nature individual and nuanced.\n\nThe Constitution of 1853 did include a clause regarding immigration: \n\nThis clause reflects the Generation of 1830's immigration policies. European immigrants, particularly those from developed Northern European countries, were meant to have a civilizing and modernizing effect on Argentine society, and to forge a new Argentine identity based on hard work, merit, and economic progress.\n\nAlong with changing the demographic makeup of the country by increasing the number of Europeans, the immigration drives of the nineteenth and early twentieth century were meant to populate the Argentine interior which was, to this point, largely undeveloped.\n\nThese two aims - Europeanization and population of the interior - combined in the Conquest of the Desert, where the remaining indigenous groups of the pampas, Andes valleys, and Patagonia were driven out or killed to make room for immigrant farmers. The indigenous were considered a problem, and not true Argentines in the new vision, and therefore had no citizenship rights in the first place.\n\n\nJuan Perón’s populist, participatory government encouraged a greater link between subject and state. His vision was inclusive and collective, based on the idea that all of Argentina needed to be involved in the project of national development. Ethnic, racial, or other national identities were made secondary to the new collective Argentine identity. He was the first to frame Argentine citizenship in terms of political rights, rather than community membership.\n\nPeron, with the influence of his wife Eva Peron (Evita), officially enfranchised women and involved the lower classes, particularly workers, in national politics for the first time. Through their social welfare programs, Peron and Evita became father and mother figures for the Argentine masses, building a collective national identity instead of a country of sovereign individuals.\n\nPeron built his new Argentine identity around its Hispanic and creole roots and the concept of the \"Madre Patria\" (motherland) to which one is always, and ultimately, loyal. Later, this Hispanic tradition was replaced by a Latin one in order to incorporate the large Italian immigrant community. Public holidays like the ‘’Día de la Raza’’ and new school textbooks glorified the conquest.\n\nHe also encouraged immigrant and minority groups, especially Jews, to participate in public life through labour unions, officially recognized cultural associations and wings of political parties.\n\nPeron's initially successful economic policy of Import substitution industrialization (ISI) also fostered national pride and a sense of independence.\n\nThe military juntas and the Guerra Sucia which followed Peron were exceptionally repressive, and the systematic targeting of ordinary citizens created a climate of fear and silence that was the opposite of the mass political participation of the Peron era. Still, they too built their governments around concepts of Argentine identity. The juntas attacked Peronism as a threat to the true capitalist Argentine values, conceiving a more, individualist, and exclusive model of citizenship in which only the qualified had the right to rule, and all others must trust their decisions. The collective Argentine identity was replaced with a more individualist, favour-based model, where the citizen's role was in service of the state rather than vice versa\n\nThough freedom of expression was nonexistent under the juntas and dissent was a punishable offence, a strong social movement grew out of the military rule. Though each group had its own concerns, most used the rhetoric of citizenship to fight for a return of their political rights. These human rights groups were eventually joined by women's groups and trade unions in early 1982, beginning the return to democracy and civilian rule. By voicing their concerns in terms of citizenship rights, the dissent movement refashioned the model of the Argentine citizen into one of an active participator with high expectations, willing to make demands of his or her government.\n\nPresent day Argentine citizenship law is derived, in the most part, from the National Constitution. Until recently, in 1994, the document did not contain any definition of citizenship and the related rights; instead, clauses were worded in terms of \"residents\" and \"the people.\" The 'New Rights and Guarantees' section added in 1994 was a reaction to authoritarian rule, and clearly regulates Argentine political rights; however, the Constitution still does not contain a definition of citizenship itself.\n\nIn this way, Argentina's federal system uses a version of the principle of comity to uphold provinces' rights, while still maintaining that Argentine citizenship is a national, pan-provincial status.\n\nArgentina extends its civil rights to \"all inhabitants\" of the Nation, not just those with full citizenship status. (see \"section 20\" below) This provision was added in 1957, with the state taking responsibility for its inhabitants' well-being.\n\nThis section is a reaction to Spanish colonial rule, under which an individual's legal and practical rights were determined by their blood (both in terms of race and nobility).\nThe stipulation that \"equality is the basis of taxation and public burdens\" reflects that, in practice, Argentine citizenship flows from both rights and duties.\n\nThe valid laws governing citizenship (Ley 346, Ley 23.059, and Decreto 3.213/84) set forth very simple requirements:\n\n(1) to be 18 years old;\n\n(2) to have been living in Argentina for 2 years; and\n\n(3) to apply for citizenship before a federal judge.\n\nAnd it can be denied if you:\n\n(1) have been in jail for more than 3 year in the last 5 years;\n\n(2) are under criminal prosecution;\n\n(3) do not have an honest way of income. To work without a legal permit is considered an honest way of living.\n\nDue to the fact that the citizenship law has existed unchanged since 1869 in its present form, the Supreme Court have issued many precedents on which there is a solution to almost every immigration situation an immigrant might face. Citizenship has been granted to immigrants who lacked legal residency or entered the country illegally, or even to immigrants with criminal records in exceptional cases.\n\nRecently, the Federal Chamber of Parana established that illegals doesn't exist in Argentina. Illegality is regarding actions that violates the criminal law. The violation of the immigration law is a simple administrative issue that can be healed applying for residency or citizenship.\n\nThe continuous 2 years means that you have your home in this country. Foreigners have the same civil rights than Argentines, among others, to travel. It means that the continuity of the 2 years doesn't mean that the solicitant cannot leave the country.\n\nFor historic reasons, federal courts are still reluctant to recognize the rights of ¨irregular¨ immigrants, They usually request the following requirements related to the abolished law 21.795 (enacted in 1978 by Dictator Jorge Rafael Videla, was abolished in 1984 and Law 346 re-enacted):\n\n(1) Legal residency (2) Legal work (3) That you speak, read and write Spanish (4) That you renounce your native citizenship (5) DNI with permanent residency (6) Birth certificate apostilled and translated by public notary (7) Certificate of a clean criminal record from your home country (8) Certificate of a clean criminal record in Argentina (9) CUIT or CUIL number\n\nThe DNI is Argentina's Documento Nacional de Identidad, or National Identity Document. It is a small book of personal information that includes a unique number, used to obtain social services, to vote, in renting, opening bank accounts, etc.\n\nNew residents are legally required to obtain a DNI within 90 days of arrival.\n\nAs mentioned in Section 37, Argentina enforces compulsory voting - it is both a right and a duty.\n\nThough non-citizens cannot vote in federal elections, some provinces allow non-citizen residents (those with DNIs) to vote in provincial and/or municipal elections:\n\n"}
{"id": "158158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=158158", "title": "Intensive pig farming", "text": "Intensive pig farming\n\nIntensive pig farming is a subset of pig farming and of Industrial animal agriculture, all of which are types of animal husbandry, in which livestock domestic pigs are raised up to slaughter weight. These operations are known as AFO or CAFO in the U.S. In this system of pig production, grower pigs are housed indoors in group-housing or straw-lined sheds, whilst pregnant sows are housed in gestation crates or pens and give birth in farrowing crates.\n\nThe use of gestation crates for pregnant sows has resulted in lower birth production costs; however, this practice has led to more significant animal cruelty. Many of the world’s largest producers of pigs (US, China, Mexico) use gestation crates but some nations and nine US states have banned and removed these crates. The European Union has banned the use of gestation crates after the 4th week of pregnancy.\n\nIntensive piggeries are generally large warehouse-like buildings or barns. Indoor pig systems allow the pigs' conditions to be monitored, ensuring minimum fatalities and increased productivity. Buildings are ventilated and their temperature regulated. Most domestic pig varieties are susceptible to sunburn and heat stress, and all pigs lack sweat glands and cannot cool themselves. Pigs have a limited tolerance to high temperatures and heat stress can lead to death. Maintaining a more specific temperature within the pig-tolerance range also maximizes growth and growth-to-feed ratio. Indoor piggeries have allowed pig farming to be undertaken in countries or areas with unsuitable climate or soil for outdoor pig raising. In an intensive operation, pigs will no longer need access to a wallow (mud), which is their natural cooling mechanism. Intensive piggeries control temperature through ventilation or drip water systems.\n\nPigs are naturally omnivorous and are generally fed a combination of grains and protein sources (soybeans, or meat and bone meal). Larger intensive pig farms may be surrounded by farmland where feed-grain crops are grown. Consequently, piggeries are reliant on the grains industry. Pig feed may be bought packaged, in bulk or mixed on-site. The intensive piggery system, where pigs are confined in individual stalls, allows each pig to be allotted a portion of feed. The individual feeding system also facilitates individual medication of pigs through feed. This has more significance to intensive farming methods, as the proximity to other animals enables diseases to spread more rapidly. To prevent disease spreading and encourage growth, drug programs such as vitamins and antibiotics are administered preemptively.\n\nIndoor systems allow for the easy collection of waste. In an indoor intensive pig farm, manure can be managed through a lagoon system or other waste-management system. However, waste smell remains a problem which is difficult to manage. Pigs in the wild or on open farmland are naturally clean animals.\n\nThe way animals are housed in intensive systems varies. Breeding sows will spend the bulk of their time in gestation crates during pregnancy. The use of these crates may be preferred as they facilitate feed management and growth control and prevent pig aggression. Sows are moved to farrowing crates, with litter, from before farrowing until weaning, to ease management of farrowing and reduce piglet loss from sows lying on them. Dry or open time for sows can be spent in indoor pens or outdoor pens or pastures. Houses should be clean and well ventilated but draught-free.\n\nPiglets can be subjected to castration, tail docking to prevent tail biting, teeth clipping, and earmarking and tattooing for litter identification. Treatments are usually made without any pain killers. Weak runts could be killed shortly after birth. Injections with a high availability iron solution often are given, as sow's milk is low in iron. The docking due to tail biting is a common practice in intensive rearing facilities as animals in that environment are more prone to increased levels of aggression and instability.\n\nPiglets are weaned and removed from the sows at between two and five weeks old and placed in sheds, nursery barns or directly to growout barns. Grower pigs are usually housed in alternative indoor housing, such as batch pens. Group pens generally require higher stockmanship skills. Such pens will usually not contain straw or other material. Alternatively, a straw-lined shed may house a larger group in age groups. Larger swine operations use slotted floors for waste removal, and deliver bulk feed into feeders in each pen; feed is available ad libitum.\n\nMany countries have introduced laws to regulate treatment of farmed animals.\n\nAs of 2016, The European Union legislation has required that pigs be given environmental enrichment, specifically they must have permanent access to a sufficient quantity of material to enable proper investigation and manipulation activities.\n\nUnder the legislation tail docking may only be used as a last resort. The law provides that farmers must first take measures to improve the pigs’ conditions and, only where these have failed to prevent tail biting, may they tail dock.\n\nNine states have banned the use of gestation crates, with Rhode Island being the most recent as of July 2012.\n\nDischarge from CAFOs is regulated by the federal Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). In 2003, the EPA revised the Clean Water Act to include permitting requirements and effluent (discharge) limitations for CAFOs. In 2008, final AFO/CAFO regulation revised portions of it under EPA’s National Point Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permitting program.\n\nThe federal Humane Slaughter Act requires pigs to be stunned before slaughter, although compliance and enforcement is questioned. There is concern from animal liberation/welfare groups that the laws have not resulted in a prevention of animal suffering and that there are \"repeated violations of the Humane Slaughter Act at dozens of slaughterhouses\".\n\nIntensive piggeries have been increasingly criticized in preference of free range systems. Such systems usually refer not to a group-pen or shedding system, but to outdoor farming systems. Those that support outdoor systems usually do so on the grounds that they are more animal friendly and allow pigs to experience natural activities (e.g., wallowing in mud, relating to young, rooting soil). Outdoor systems are usually less economically productive due to increased space requirements and higher morbidity, (though, when dealing with the killing of piglets and other groups of swine, the methods are the same.) They also have a range of environmental impacts, such as denitrification of soil and erosion. Outdoor pig farming may also have welfare implications, for example, pigs kept outside may get sunburnt and are more susceptible to heat stress than in indoor systems, where air conditioning or similar can be used. Outdoor pig farming may also increase the incidence of worms and parasites in pigs. Management of these problems depends on local conditions, such as geography, climate, and the availability of skilled staff.\n\nTransition of an indoor production system to an outdoor system may present obstacles. Some breeds of pig commonly used in intensive farming have been selectively bred to suit intensive conditions. Lean pink-pigmented pigs are unsuited for outdoor agriculture, as they suffer sunburn and heat stress. In certain environmental conditions – for example, a temperate climate – outdoor pig farming of these breeds is possible. However, there are many other breeds of pig suited to outdoor rearing, as they have been used in this way for centuries, such as Gloucester Old Spot and Oxford Forest. Following the UK ban of sow stalls, the British Pig Executive indicates that the pig farming industry in the UK has declined. The increase in production costs has led to British pig-products being more expensive than those from other countries, leading to increased imports and the need to position UK pork as a product deserving a price premium.\n\nIn 1997, Grampian Country Foods, then the UK’s largest pig producer, pointed out that pigmeat production costs in the UK were 44 p/kg higher than on the continent. Grampian stated that only 2 p/kg of this was due to the ban on stalls; the majority of the extra costs resulted from the then strength of sterling and the fact that at that time meat and bone meal had been banned in the UK but not on the continent. A study by the Meat and Livestock Commission in 1999, the year that the gestation crate ban came into force, found that moving from gestation crates, to group housing added just 1.6 pence to the cost of producing 1 kg of pigmeat. French and Dutch studies show that even in the higher welfare group housing systems – ones giving more space and straw – a kg of pigmeat costs less than 2 pence more to produce than in gestation crates.\n\nOrganized campaigns by animal activists have focused on the use of the gestation crate, such as the 'gestation crate' and farrowing crate. The gestation crate has now been banned in the UK, certain US states, and other European countries, although it remains part of pig production in much of the US and European Union.\n\nOnly the sows selected for breeding will spend time in a gestation crate. In an intensive system, the sow will be placed in a crate prior mating and will stay there for at least the start of her pregnancy, when the risk of miscarriage is higher. The typical length of the sow's pregnancy is 3 months, 3 weeks, and 3 days. In certain cases, sows may spend this time in the crate. However, a variety of farming systems are used and the time in the crate may vary from 4 weeks to the whole pregnancy.\n\nThere is also some criticism of 'farrowing crates'. A farrowing crate houses the sow in one section and her piglets in another. It allows the sow to lie down and roll over to feed her piglets, but keeps her piglets in a separate section. This prevents the large sow from sitting on her piglets and killing them, which is quite common where the sow is not separated from the piglets. Sows are also prevented from being able to move other than between standing and lying. Some models of farrowing crates may allow more space than others, and allow greater interaction between sow and young. Well-designed farrowing pens in which the sow has ample space can be just as effective as crates in preventing piglet mortality. Some crates may also be designed with cost-effectiveness or efficiency in mind and therefore be smaller.\n\nAuthoritative industry data indicate that moving from sow stalls to group housing added 2 pence to the cost of producing 1 kg. of pigmeat.\n\nMany English fattening pigs are kept in barren conditions and are routinely tail docked. Since 2003 EU legislation has required pigs to be given environmental enrichment and has banned routine tail docking. However, 80% of UK pigs are tail docked.\n\nIn 2015, use of sow crates was made illegal on New Zealand pig farms.\n\nCommon criticism of intensive piggeries is that they represent a corporatization of the traditional rural lifestyle. Critics feel the rise of intensive piggeries has largely replaced family farming. Between 1982 and 1987 some 21% of Iowa hog farmers went out of business. By 1992, another 12% had gone out of business. In large part, this is because intensive piggeries are more economical than outdoor systems, pen systems, or the sty. In many pork-producing countries (e.g., United States, Canada, Australia, Denmark) the use of intensive piggeries has led to market rationalization and concentration. \"The New York Times\" reported that keeping pigs and other animals in \"unnaturally overcrowded\" environments poses considerable health risks for workers, neighbors, and consumers.\n\nContaminants from animal wastes can enter the environment through pathways such as through leakage of poorly constructed manure lagoons or during major precipitation events resulting in either overflow of lagoons and runoff from recent applications of waste to farm fields, or atmospheric deposition followed by dry or wet fallout. Runoff can leach through permeable soils to vulnerable aquifers that tap ground water sources for human consumption. Runoff of manure can also find its way into surface water such as lakes, streams, and ponds. An example of weather induced runoff having been recently reported in the wake of Hurricane Matthew.\n\nMany contaminants are present in livestock wastes, including nutrients, pathogens, veterinary pharmaceuticals and naturally excreted hormones. Improper disposal of animal carcasses and abandoned livestock facilities can also contribute to water quality problems in surrounding areas of CAFOs.\n\nExposure to waterborne contaminants can result from both recreational use of affected surface water and from ingestion of drinking water derived from either contaminated surface water or ground water. High-Risk populations are generally the very young, the elderly, pregnant women, and immunocompromised individuals. Dermal contact may cause skin, eye, or ear infections. Drinking water exposures to pathogens could occur in vulnerable private wells.\n\nAt Varkensproefcentrum Sterksel in the Netherlands, a pig farm has been created that reuses its waste streams. CO² and ammonia from the pig manure are reused to grow algae which in turn are used to feed the pigs.\n\nAnother method to reduce the effect on the environment is to switch to other breeds of pig. The enviropig is a genetically modified type of pig with the capability to digest plant phosphorus more efficiently than ordinary pigs, though the enviropig program ended in 2012 and did not reach commercial distribution.\n\nNutrient-rich runoff from CAFO's can contribute to Algal blooms in rivers, lakes and seas. The 2009 Harmful Algal Bloom event off the coast of Brittany, France was attributed to runoff from an intensive pig farm.\n\nAs of 2010, North Carolina housed approximately ten million hogs, most of which are located in the eastern half of the state in industrialized CAFOs or Confined Animal Feeding Operations. This was not the case twenty years ago. The initial horizontal integration and the vertical integration that arose in this industry resulted in numerous issues, including issues of environmental disparity, loss of work, pollution, animal rights, and overall general public health. The most remarkable example of swine CAFO monopoly is found in the United States, where in 2001, 50 producers had control over 70% of total pork production. In 2001, the biggest CAFO had just over 710,000 sows.\n\nOriginally, Murphy Family Farms horizontally integrated the North Carolina system. They laid the groundwork for the industry to be vertically integrated. Today the hog industry in North Carolina is led by Smithfield Foods, which has expanded into both nationwide and international production.\n\nThe environmental justice problems in North Carolina's agroindustrialization of swine production seem to stem from the history of the coastal region's economy, which has relied heavily on black and low-income populations to supply the necessary agricultural labor. The industry's shift from family-owned hog farms to factory hogging has contributed to the frequent targeting of these areas.\n\nThis swine production and pollution that accompanies factory hogging is concentrated in the parts of North Carolina that have the highest disease rates, the least access to medical care, and the greatest need for positive education and economic development. Since hog production has become consolidated in the coastal region of N.C., the high water tables and low-lying flood plains have increased the risk and impact of hog farm pollution. A swine CAFO is made up of three parts: the hog house, the “lagoon,” and the “spray field.” Waste disposal techniques used by small-scale traditional hog farms, like using waste as fertilizer for commercially viable crops, were adopted and expanded for use by CAFOs. Lagoons are supposed to be protected with an impermeable liner, but some do not work properly. This can cause environmental damage, as seen in 1995 when a lagoon burst in North Carolina. This lagoon released 25 million gallons of noxious sludge into North Carolina’s New River and killed approximately eight to ten million fish.\n\nThe toxins emitted by the swine CAFOs can produce a variety of symptoms and illnesses ranging from respiratory disorders, headaches, and shortness of breath to hydrogen sulfide poisoning, bronchitis, and asthma. The potential for spray field runoff or lagoon leakage puts nearby residents in danger of contaminated drinking water, which can lead to diseases like samonellosis, giardiasis, Chlamydia, meningitis, cryptosporidiosis, worms, and influenza.\n\nSlaughterhouses and veterinarians are obliged to report pigs with injuries to the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Fisheries, which forwards cases to the police. There were relatively few cases before 2006, but by 2008-9 there were about 300 per year. When there are visible injuries, it represents not only a problem in animal welfare but also the farmers economy because parts or occasionally the entire carcass has to be discarded. From 2006 to 2009 the number of pigs with injuries caused by hard objects, such as planks or chains received by slaughterhouses rose significantly. It was possibly related to a system introduced in 2006, which rewards \"the rushed loading of animals onto vehicles\", as well as a sharp increase in uneducated Eastern European farm workers unaware of Danish laws.\n\nGestation crates were sometimes used on some Danish farms to restrict the movement of sows during pregnancy, as documented by British celebrity chef Jamie Oliver in a television programme for the UK's Channel 4 in 2009. In other fields, such as bathing facilities for the pigs and floor material Danish requirements were higher than in the UK. the practice was already prohibited for pigs exported to the UK. The use of gestation crates became illegal in Denmark (as part of the EU) in 2013.\n\nAccording to Scoop, in 2009 the New Zealand pork industry was \"dealt a shameful public relations slap-in-the-face after its former celebrity kingpin, Mike King, outed their farming practices as 'brutal', 'callous' and 'evil on a May episode of New Zealand television show \"Sunday\". King condemned the \"appalling treatment\" of factory farmed pigs. King observed conditions inside a New Zealand piggery, and saw a dead female pig inside a gestation crate, lame and crippled pigs and others that could barely stand, pigs either extremely depressed or highly distressed, pigs with scars and injuries, and a lack of clean drinking water and food.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6046475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6046475", "title": "International Institute for the Sociology of Law", "text": "International Institute for the Sociology of Law\n\nThe International Institute for the Sociology of Law (IISL) in Oñati is the only international establishment which is entirely devoted to teaching and promoting the sociology of law, socio-legal studies, and law and society research.\n\nThe IISL is a joint venture of the Research Committee on Sociology of Law (also known as RC12 of the International Sociological Association) and the government of the Basque autonomous region in Spain. It is situated (since 1989) in the University of Oñati (the Ancient University of the Basque Country) in Oñati. The founding director of the IISL, André-Jean Arnaud, had bronze plaques put on the walls of the renaissance building with the names of some of the forefathers of modern sociology of law: Montesquieu, Henry James Sumner Maine, Francisco Giner de los Ríos, Henri Lévy-Bruhl, Achille Loria, Leon Petrażycki, Émile Durkheim, Max Weber, Eugen Ehrlich, Karl Renner, Karl N. Llewellyn, Theodor Geiger, Georges Gurvitch, Nicholas S. Timasheff.\n\nThe IISL has four \"official languages\": English, French, Spanish and Basque. It houses a famous library/documentation centre covering socio-legal literature in all major and many minor languages. The Institute organises socio-legal workshops and an international Master's Program in the Sociology of Law, including student scholarships. Publications from the workshops are regularly produced in both an English- and Spanish language series, including the Institute's own online peer-reviewed journal (Onati Socio-Legal Series). The IISL is also the host of the World Consortium of Law and Society associations. Applications to host a workshop, residence grants for visitors wishing to use the library, and to study on the Masters programmes are usually due mid-February. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32612135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32612135", "title": "Isa Qassim", "text": "Isa Qassim\n\nAyatollah Sheikh Isa Ahmed Qassim (Arabic: آية الله الشيخ عيسى أحمد قاسم) is Bahrain's leading Shia cleric and a politician. He is the spiritual leader of Al Wefaq, Bahrain's biggest opposition society. He was the leader and is the founders of Islamic Enlightenment institution.\n\nIsa Qassim was born in 1940 to a fisherman in Duraz. He attended Budaiya primary school where he was known for his intelligence and it was reported that he always scored the highest marks. After finishing primary school and with his brother's aid he moved to Manama's secondary school. After graduating he worked as a teacher in Budaiya primary school where he remained until 1962.\n\nDuring his academic study Isa Qassim went to Noaim at night to study Islamic teachings under sheikh Abdul-Hussain Al-Heli (Died in 1957). In 1962 Qassim began studies at the Najaf Religious Institute in Iraq, where he studied under many Marja's including Mohammad Baqir al-Sadr. He remained in Al-Najaf for 4 years then returned to Bahrain where he worked as a teacher in Al-Khamis intermediate school for 2 years before returning to Al-Najaf. In Al-Najaf he met with other Shia Bahraini scholars including: Sheikh Abdul Amir al-Jamri, Sheikh Abdulla Al-Guraifi, Sheikh Abdulla Al-Madani and Sheikh Abbas Al-Rayes. All of them were from the same generation and knew each other well even before going to Al-Najaf, due to being partners as students or teachers.\n\nAt the beginning of the 1990s, Isa Qassim traveled to Qum in Iran to continue his religious studies. He studied on the hands of some of the highest-ranking Marjas including: Ayatollah Sayed Mahmood al-Qashimi, Ayatollah Sayed Kadhem al-Haeri and Ayatollah Fadhel al-Lankarani. In March 2001, he finished his studies, gained the title of Ayatollah and returned to Bahrain on March 8, 2001.\n\nIsa Qassim has been leading Friday Sermon in Duraz mosque since his return to Bahrain in 2001. Thousands of worshipers attend this sermon weekly. During the first speech preceding prayer, Qassim usually speaks about religious topics. And about political topics during the second speech.\n\nIn 1971 Isa Qassim was chosen by religious leaders to be a candidate for elections while he was still in Iraq. At first he refused and wanted to stay in Iraq to finish his studies and stay away from politics, but just four days before candidates registration was closed, his brother Mahdi traveled to Iraq and brought him back along with his wife and kids. In 1972 he was elected for the Constituent assembly where he had big influence in including parts of the Islamic sharia in the 1973 constitution.\n\nIn 1972 a 'religious block' was formed which included Isa Qassim, Sheikh Abdul Amir al-Jamri, Sheikh Abdulla Al-Madani, Sheikh Abbas Al-Rayes, Suleiman Al-Mubarak and Hassan Al-Motawwaj. At first they were 9 members, but later 3 of them joined the 'Independent middle' block. During elections the block adopted a wide program including: supporting the labor's union & demands, forbidding trade of Alcoholic drinks and separating men and women in higher education (like primary, intermediate and secondary schools). They also called for prohibiting male doctors from treating females (especially in pregnancy) as well as other demands that are part of the Islamic customs.\n\nIn 1973 Qassim was elected a member of Bahrain's parliament, the National Assembly of Bahrain, until the parliament was dissolved in August 1975. He gained 1079 votes making him the biggest winner in the fifteen constituency.\n\nThe Bahraini government alleged that Qassim was implicated in a coup plot in 1996. They accused him to be the head of an Iran-based group called Hizbullah Bahrain, who were said to be behind a conspiracy to overthrow the Bahraini government. Some of those convicted of the conspiracy confessed to receiving financial help and military training from Iran and Lebanon. This claim was described by Human Rights Watch as lacking any credibility. Their confessions were broadcast on Bahrain TV. Many Bahraini Shias denied that Isa Qassim was involved in any plot and claimed that the confessions were taken under torture.\n\nIsa Qassim is often referred to as the spiritual leader of Al Wefaq. However, he has no formal position within the party and has attained this status as a result of his religious seniority. Some see this as a way for Qassim to avoid “submitting his opinions to internal democratic debate so that he can retain the final decision without paying the price for it”. Qassim rarely makes his decisions in public.\n\nThroughout the Bahraini uprising (2011–present) Qassim has been a vocal critic of the government and has led the opposition to King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa. \"Bahrain’s Sunni rulers have treated Shiite anti-government protesters seeking greater rights in the Gulf kingdom as enemies of state.\" He said on September 16 during Friday Sermon. \"the politics of fear and the Sunni rulers’ refusal to reform has strengthened the resolve of Bahrain’s Shiite majority. He added.\n\nOn 14 March, the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) agreed to deploy Peninsula Shield Force troops to Bahrain. Saudi Arabia deployed about 1,000 troops with armored support, and the United Arab Emirates deployed about 500 police officers. The forces crossed into Bahrain via the King Fahd Causeway. The purported reason of the intervention was to secure key installations. The opposition reacted strongly, calling it an \"occupation\".\n\nIn response to the deployment of the GCC troops in Bahrain. Isa Qassim, criticised al-Khalifa's claims that the mobilisation of GCC troops is a broader effort to ensure regional stability, rather than what Qassim considers to be Sunni entrenchment and a veiled challenge to Shia representation in the government. On 18 March he said the Peninsula Shield Force had \"made a big mistake\" and he \"would have been proud\" if it instead went \"to help our brothers in Gaza\".\n\nOn 20 June 2016, a week after the government of Bahrain suspended the Shia opposition group al-Wefaq, Isa Qassim was stripped of his Bahraini citizenship. An interior ministry statement accused Sheikh Isa Qassim of using his position to \"serve foreign interests\" and promote \"sectarianism and violence\". Announcing the move to strip him of his Bahraini citizenship, the interior ministry said the cleric had \"adopted theocracy and stressed the absolute allegiance to the clergy\". It added that he had been in continuous contact with \"organisations and parties that are enemies of the kingdom\". Bahrain's citizenship law allows for the cabinet to revoke the citizenship of anyone who \"causes harm to the interests of the kingdom or behaves in a way inimical with the duty of loyalty to it\". Qassim is an indigenous Bahraini who received his nationality in the 1960s.\n\n\nOn 16 July 2016, the head of public prosecution, Ahmed al-Dosari, said a Bahraini cleric would go on trial the next month on charges of collecting funds illegally and money laundering. Sources identified the cleric as Qassim. Bahraini media last month reported an investigation was underway into a bank account of some $10 million in Qassim's name to find the source of the funds and how they were being spent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1440122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1440122", "title": "John A. Treutlen", "text": "John A. Treutlen\n\nJohn Adam Treutlen, born Hans Adam Treuettlen (January 16, 1734 – March 1, 1782), arrived in Colonial America as an indentured servant and rose to become a wealthy merchant and landowner. He was a leader in Georgia during the American Revolution and helped write Georgia's first constitution. In 1777, he was elected Georgia's first (post-British) governor. He was one of Georgia's few governors to die by violence. \n\nAlthough much of his life has been surrounded by mystery and controversy, more details have emerged in recent years.\n\nHans Adam Treuettlen was born to Hans Michel Treuettlen, a cooper, and Magdalena Clara, \"née\" Job, in the city of Kürnbach, now in Germany, then a condominium of the Landgraviate of Hesse-Darmstadt and the Duchy of Württemberg. Treutlen's home was located in the part of the city that was ruled by Württemberg. His parents were married in 1731 after having two illegitimate children. He was the second child born after his parents married. It was Hans Michel's second marriage; his first marriage was to Maria Regina and they had seven children. Maria Regina died in 1727.\n\nThe Treutlens were Protestants. In parts of the German-speaking lands, Protestants were persecuted by Catholic authorities, and many left for America seeking religious freedom. Clara, however, was a Catholic. Thus, the Treutlens were also very likely persecuted by the Protestant establishment for Clara's religion and also because the family had two children outside the marriage bond. That situation probably caused the 56-year-old Hans Michel to take, in late April 1744, his wife and four of their children on the arduous and dangerous voyage to seek a new life in America. The four children who went on this voyage were Friedrich, from Hans Michel's first marriage, Hans Philipp, one of the illegitimate children, and John Adam and Jonathan, the two youngest children.\n\nThe Treutlens traveled first to Gosport on the southern coast of Britain. In November 1745, Clara and three of the children left Gosport for Georgia with a group of Lutheran Salzburgers who had been expelled from their Catholic-dominated homeland (see Salzburg#Religious conflict).\n\nThe mother and children embarked on the ill-fated \"Judith\". Hans Michel and one of the children, Hanß Philipp, remained in Britain. During the voyage across the Atlantic, there was an outbreak of typhus fever on the Judith. Thirteen individuals died, including the ship's captain. The first mate also became seriously ill. The \"Judith\" was in danger of not making the trip safely for death and illness left no one skilled at navigating a ship on the high seas. However, Rev. Bartholomäus Zuberbühler, who had no prior experience sailing, used his knowledge of geometry to figure out how to navigate the \"Judith\" safely to Georgia.\n\nUpon their arrival in Georgia, Clara and the three Treutlen children were indentured to Michael Burckhalter of Vernonburg. Pastor Johann Martin Boltzius of the Salzburgers in Ebenezer took notice of the extraordinary talents of John Treutlen and endeavored to remove him to Ebenezer in order to enroll him at the school there. However, Boltzius found it difficult to arrange for permission for Treutlen's attendance at the school because of Clara's history of abandoned husbands, illegitimate children, and Catholicism.\n\nTreutlen's \"wicked and worldly parents\" were also probably the reason that his true origins have remained hidden for so long. For 200 years, it was believed that he was born in Berchtesgaden, Austria. According to that story, the Treutlens, on their way to America, were attacked and the father captured and imprisoned by Spanish pirates. The father was supposed to have died in a Spanish prison in 1744. This story avoids many of the facts of Hans Michel's and Clara's lives together that people of the 18th century would find disagreeable. The story thus gained credence and then took on a life of its own over the next 200 years. However, marriage, birth, and other documents, which were recently discovered in Europe, have provided a more accurate picture of the Treutlens' European origins and their voyage to America.\n\nOvercoming the burden of his parents' past, Treutlen was enrolled in the school at Ebenezer. He did extremely well in his studies at Ebenezer and acquired a broad education in a wide variety of subjects in Latin, French, German, and English. He profited from growing up among the Salzburgers. As an adult, he was described as a man who possessed \"an enlightened reason, Adam's natural intelligence and ability to give a name to every animal, knowledge of the laws of the land, and some discernment of practical religion.\"\n\nIn 1756, Treutlen married Marguerite Dupuis, an orphan who was also educated at Ebenezer. He soon began acquiring land and established for himself a large plantation and a successful merchant business. In 1768, he was appointed Justice of the Peace. He served as Commissioner and Surveyor of Roads, and several terms in the 1770s as Ebenezer's representative in the Georgia Commons House of Assembly.\n\nTreutlen assumed an active role in the religious life at Ebenezer. He was a teacher at the school there. He was a leader of the Rabenhorst faction in the sometimes-violent conflicts between the Ebenezer pastors, the Reverend Christoph Triebner and the Reverend Christian Rabenhorst. His association with Rev. Rabenhorst indicated Treutlen's religious sympathies. Ministers such as Rev. Rabenhorst and Rev. John Joachim Zubly of Savannah, found comfort in the writings of such German theologians as Rev. Johann Joachim Spalding. Those ministers accepted the many differences among the people in the colonies as a result of the different countries and cultures of those people. In their practical day-to-day activities of ministering to the diverse population, those ministers found it most effective to employ various strategies in the gracious work of conversion.\n\nTreutlen's religious views, formed by his association with Rev. Rabenhorst, undoubtedly helped him to develop his support for the democratic political institutions that seemed so agreeable with this diversity.\n\nIn July 1775, Treutlen represented Ebenezer at the Provincial Congress. He took an active role in the revolution. He quickly became a leader, along with Button Gwinnett and George Wells, of the radical faction. In February 1777, Treutlen, Gwinnett, and Wells were on the committee that drafted Georgia's first constitution. As a result, the constitution included such democratic provisions as virtually-universal suffrage and annual elections of office holders. On May 8, 1777, the immensely-popular Treutlen was elected by a wide margin as Georgia's first governor under this new constitution. With the selection of Treutlen, Georgia chose a man who \"possesses native intelligence\" and could, under pressure, reply \"coolly and laconically\" to his political opponents and was thus well suited for the difficult task of leading the new state.\n\nTreutlen's term as governor was marked by political conflicts between the radical and the conservative factions of the patriots. The conservatives opposed the democratic provisions of the new constitution that allowed many of those from the lower classes, with backgrounds like the former indentured servant Treutlen, to be elected to positions of power in the government. The radicals referred to the conservatives as Tories and, in some cases, treated them accordingly. The radicals and the conservatives clashed over the issues of civil control of the military, the conduct of the war and the conservatives' initiative to merge Georgia with South Carolina. The radicals were defeated in their attempts to remove the conservative General Lachlan McIntosh from his position of leadership in the continental army in Georgia when national leaders, such as George Washington, sided with McIntosh.\n\nThroughout the war, thosr political conflicts erupted into violent and tragic confrontations. In February 1777, the conservative Joseph Habersham killed the radical Lieutenant Nathaniel Hughes in a dispute at the opening of the convention that was called to write Georgia's first constitution. On May 16, 1777, the conservative General McIntosh mortally wounded the radical Gwinnett. On February 16, 1780, the conservative James Jackson killed the radical Wells. Treutlen and the radicals lost many of their battles with the conservatives.\n\nThe Revolutionary War was particularly hard on the Salzburgers at Ebenezer. During the war, \"when the English left, the Americans came, when the Americans went, the English came back,\" but one thing remained the same: no matter who was there, the Salzburgers were plundered. Some were plundered as many as ten times during the years of war.\n\nOn December 30, 1776, Rev. Rabenhorst died, leaving Ebenezer with no spiritual guidance. Thus, when John Houstoun was elected governor in January 1778, Treutlen dropped out of statewide politics and returned to Ebenezer to see what he could do to help the community and people that had provided him with so much during his three decades in America. At Savannah, he became a Freemason by joining the first Masonic Lodge established in Georgia, named Solomon's Lodge, No. 1., constituted in 1735 by the Grand Lodge of England, was founded in the Georgia Colony by the English Freemason James Oglethorpe on February 21, 1734. Treutlen's name is listed on the Lodge's Masonic membership roles in 1779 along with Archibald Bulloch, George Walton, General Samuel Elbert and many other Georgia leaders of the Revolution.\n\nLate in 1781, Treutlen re-entered statewide politics as Ebenezer's elected representative to the Georgia Assembly. He served in the January 1782 session. In 1782, the conservatives, whom Treutlen had opposed five years earlier, controlled the government of Georgia. Treutlen was one of the few radical democrats in the government that year. The imbalance in power between the radicals and the conservatives helped to create an atmosphere where the conservatives felt free to seek revenge for old scores and wounds.\n\nOn a night in March 1782, by some accounts, five men rode up to the Treutlen home. They demanded for Treutlen to come outside, but he refused. The men then set fire to the home, forcing Treutlen, his wife and children to come outside. The men seized Treutlen and killed him in full view of his family. Other accounts of Treutlen's death are considerably different as to the details of the attack. Some versions even place his death in South Carolina, not Georgia, and give a later date (late 1782 or early 1783), but there is no dispute that he died by some kind of mob violence.\n\nHistorians continue to speculate about what person or group was behind the killing and what was the motive. Some contemporary accounts claimed Treutlen was killed by Tories angry about the American victory in the Revolutionary War. Others blamed the killing on South Carolinians who resented his opposition to merging Georgia into South Carolina during the war. There was also speculation at the time that the motive was a purely-personal grudge. The multiplicity of accounts and theories of his death indicates that there was never a consensus about the cause of the event.\n\nTreutlen County is named after him.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "189004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=189004", "title": "Liberalization", "text": "Liberalization\n\nLiberalization (or liberalisation) is any process whereby a state lifts restrictions on some private individual activities. Liberalization occurs when something which used to be banned is no longer banned, or when government regulations are relaxed.\n\nThe term \"liberalization\" is most often used in discussing economic liberalization, which refers to the reduction of state involvement in the economy, but it can be used in other contexts as well.\n\nIn social policy, liberalization may refer to a relaxation of laws restricting, for example, divorce, abortion, or psychoactive drugs. Regarding civil rights, it may refer to the elimination of laws prohibiting homosexuality, private ownership of firearms or other items, same-sex marriage, inter-racial marriage, or inter-faith marriage.\n\nEconomic liberalization refers to the reduction or elimination of government regulations or restrictions on private business and trade. It is usually promoted by advocates of free markets and free trade, whose ideology is also called economic liberalism. Economic liberalization also often involves reductions of taxes, social security, and unemployment benefits.\n\nEconomic liberalization is often associated with privatization, which is the process of transferring ownership or outsourcing of a business, enterprise, agency, public service or public property from the public sector to the private sector. For example, the European Union has liberalized gas and electricity markets, instituting a competitive system. Some leading European energy companies such as France's EDF and Sweden's Vattenfall remain partially or completely in government ownership. Liberalized and privatized public services may be dominated by big companies, particularly in sectors with high capital, water, gas, or electricity costs. In some cases they may remain legal monopolies, at least for some segments of the market like consumers. Liberalization, privatization and stabilization are the Washington Consensus's trinity strategy for economies in transition.\n\nThere is also a concept of hybrid liberalization as, for instance, in Ghana, cocoa crops can be sold to competing private companies, but there is a minimum price for which it can be sold and all exports are controlled by the state.\n\nShift from State to Market\nDuring 1970’s societies faced economic problems due to the high taxation, employment policies, public sector, great state intervention. Politicians were not in favour of welfare state and socialism. These problems led the high wage demand, encourage patriotism etc.\nIn 1980’s there was shift from state to market in the field of the allocation of resources in large parts of the world. This shift resulted the reduction in taxes and reduction in government expenditure. The multilateral agencies IMF and World Bank pressurise the state to apply the policy of liberalisation.\n\nFacets of Liberalisation\nLiberation in Europe carried on by reducing the public expenditure, social security, welfare programmes, taxation\netc. It did not affect the highly agricultural production. In 1970’s liberalisation at its early phase in developing countries\nmaintained stabilisation of the economy–public expenditure was control, increase in tax return, currency devaluation,\nreforms in industrial policy, state expenditure was controlled, reforms in market financial etc.\n\nThere is a distinct difference between liberalization and democratization. Liberalization can take place without democratization, and deals with a combination of policy and social change specialized to a certain issue, such as the liberalization of government-held property for private purchase. Democratization is politically highly specialized; it can arise from a liberalization but works on a broader level of governmental liberalization.\n\n\nSpecific:\n"}
{"id": "21712085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21712085", "title": "List of foreign ministry headquarters", "text": "List of foreign ministry headquarters\n\nThis is a list of foreign ministry headquarters. It lists the names and locations of buildings that serve as the headquarters for foreign ministries. \n"}
{"id": "28386936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28386936", "title": "Little Miller Act", "text": "Little Miller Act\n\nA \"Little Miller Act\" is a U.S. state statute, based upon the federal Miller Act, that requires prime contractors on state construction projects to post bonds guarantying the performance of their contractual duties and/or the payment of their subcontractors and material suppliers.\n\nLittle Miller Acts typically require the posting of a performance bond, a type of surety bond that covers the cost of substitute performance if the prime contractor fails to fully perform his duties under the contract.\n\nLittle Miller Acts also typically require the posting of a payment bond, which provides an alternate source of payment to the subcontractors and material suppliers who worked on the job. If the claimant did not have a direct contractual relationship with the prime contractor, the claimant is typically required to give some form of notice to the prime contractor within a specified time after the completion of the work to preserve the right to make a claim against the payment bond. The purpose of the notice requirement is to give the prime contractor an opportunity to withhold payment to the first-tier subcontractor and otherwise encourage payment to the claimant.\n\nLittle Miller Acts address two concerns that would otherwise exist in the performance of state government construction projects:\n\n\nAlabama Code, Title 39, Public Works, §39-1-1\n\nAlaska Statutes, Title 36, Public Contracts, Chapter 36.25, Contractors' Bonds, Sections 36.25.010 through 36.25.025\n\nArizona Revised Statutes, Title 34, Public Buildings and Improvements, Article 2, Contracts, Sections 34–222, 34-223 and 34-224 \n\nArkansas Statutes, Title 22, Public Property, Chapter 9, Public Works, Subchapter 4, Contractors' Bonds,\nSections 22-9-401 through 22-9-405\n\nCalifornia Civil Code, Title 3, Public Work of Improvement, Chapters 4 and 5, Payment Bond for Public Works, Sections 9558, 9502, 9204, 9358, and 9356; California Public Contract Code, Part 2, Ch. 1, Art. 7, Contract Requirements, Sections 10220 through 10230\n\nColorado Revised Statutes, Title 24, Government, State, Article 105, Colorado Procurement Code – Construction Contracts, Sections 24-105-201 through 24-105-203; Title 38, Property – Real and Personal, Article 26, Liens – Contractors' Bonds and Lien on Funds, Sections 38-26-101 and 38-26-105 through 38-26-110\n\nConnecticut General Statutes, Title 49, Mortgages and Liens, Chapter 847, Liens, Sections 49-41 through 49-43\n\nDelaware Code, Title 29, State Government, Budget, Fiscal, Procurement and Contracting Regulations, Chapter 69, State Procurement, Subchapter IV, Public Works Contracting, Section 6962\n\nDistrict of Columbia Code, Title 2, Government Administration, Chapter 2, Contracts, Subchapter 1, Bonding Requirement, Sections 2-201.01 through 2-201.03, and 2-201.11\n\nFlorida Statutes, Title XVIII, Public Lands and Property, Chapter 255, Public Property and Publicly Owned Buildings, Section 255.05\n\nGeorgia Code, Title 13, Contracts, Chapter 10, Contracts for Public Works, Sections 13-10-1 – 13-10-2 and 13-10-40 through 13-10-65; Title 36, Local Government Provisions Appliable to Counties, Municipal Corporations, and Other Governmental Entities, Chapter 91, Public Works Bidding Sections 36-91-1 – 36-91-2, 36-91-40 and 36-91-70 through 36-91-95\n\nHawaii Revised Statutes, Chapter 103D, Hawaii Public Procurement Code, Part III, Source Selection and Contract Formation, Sections 103D-323 through 103D-325\n\nIdaho Code, Title 54, Professions, Vocations and Businesses, Chapter 19, Public Works Contractors, Sections 54-1925 through 54-1930\n\nIllinois Compiled Statutes, Government, Chapter 30, Finance – Purchases and Contracts, Sections 550/0.01 through 550/3, Public Construction Bond Act\n\nIndiana Code, Title 4, State Offices and Administration, Article 13.6, State Public Works, Chapter 7, Bonding, Escrow and Retainages, sections 4-13.6-7-5 through 4-13.6-7-12; Title 5, State and Local Administration, Article 16, Public Works, Chapter 5, Withholding and Bond to Secure Payment of Subcontractors, Labor and Materialmen; Chapter 5.5, Retainage, Bonds, and Payment of Contractors and Subcontractors, sections 5-16-5.5-1 through 5-16-5.5-8 \n\nIowa Code, Title XIV, Property, Subtitle 3, Liens, Chapter 573, Labor and Material on Public Improvements, sections 573.1 through 573.227; \"See also\", Iowa Code, Title XV, Judicial Branch and Judicial Procedures,Subtitle 3, Judicial Procedure, Chapter 616, Place of Bringing Actions, section 616.15, Surety Companies\n\nKansas Statutes, Chapter 16, Contracts and Promises, Article 19, Kansas Fairness in Public Construction Contract Act, sections 16-1901 through 16-1908; Chapter 60, Civil Procedure, Article 11, Liens for Labor and Material, sections 60-1110 & 60-1112; \nChapter 68, Roads and Bridges, Part I, Roads, Article 5, County and Township Roads, sections 68-410, 68-521 and 68-527a\n\nKentucky Revised Statutes, Chapter 45A, Kentucky Model Procurement Code, sections 45A.185, 45A.190, 45A.195, 45A.225 through 45A.265, and 45A.430 through 45A.440; \"See also\", Kentucky Revised Statutes, Title XXVII, Chapter 341, Unemployment Compensation, section 341.317\n\nLouisiana Revised Statutes, Title 38, Public Contracts, Works and Improvements, Chapter 10, Public Contracts, sections 38:2181 – 38:2247; Title 48, Roads, Bridges and Ferries, Chapter 1, Department of Transportation and Development, sections 48:250 – 48:256.12\n\nMaine Revised Statutes, Title 14, Court Procedure – Civil, Part 2, Proceedings Before Trial, Chapter 205, Limitation of Actions, Subchapter 3, Miscellaneous Actions, Section 871\n\nMaryland Code, State Finance and Procurement Law, Division II, General Procurement Law, Title 17, Special Provisions – State and Local Subdivisions, Subtitle 1, Security for Construction Contracts, Sections 101 through 111\n\nMassachusetts General Laws, Part I, Administration of the Government, Title XXI, Labor and Industries, Chapter 149, Labor and Industries, Section 29\n\nMichigan Compiled Laws Annotated §§ 129.201–129.212 and §§ 570.101–570.101 (2008); Chapter 129, Public Funds, Act 213 of 1963 (as amended), Contractor's Bond for Public Buildings or Works; Chapter 570, Liens, Act 187 of 1905 (as amended), Public Buildings and Public Works; Bond of Contractor\n\nMinnesota Statutes, Chapter 574, Bonds, Fines, Forfeitures, Sections 26 through 32\n\nMississippi Code, Title 31, Public Business, Bonds and Obligations, Chapter 5, Public Works Contracts, Sections 31-5-51 through 31-5-57, Bonds Securing Public Works Contracts; \"See also\", Miss. Code §§ 31-5-25 through 31-5-31 (prompt payment provisions)\n\nMissouri Revised Statutes, Title VIII, Chapter 107, Section 107.170; Title XIV, Chapter 227, Sections 227.100, 227.600 and 227.633; Chapter 229, Sections 229.050, 229.060 and 229.070; Title XXXVI, Chapter 522, Section 522.300\n\nMontana Code Annotated, Title 18, Public Contracts, Chapter 2, Construction Contracts, Part 2, Performance, Labor and Materials Bond, Sections 18-2-201through 18-2-208\n\nNebraska Revised Statutes, Chapter 52, Liens, Sections 52-118 through 52-118.02\n\nNevada Revised Statutes, Title 28, Public Works and Planning, Chapter 339, Contractors' Bonds on Public Works, Sections 339.015 through 339.065\n\nNew Hampshire Revised Statutes, Title XLI, Liens, Chapter 447, Liens for Labor and Materials; Public Works, Sections 447:15 through 447:18\n\nNew Jersey Revised Statutes, Title 2A, Administration of Civil and Criminal Justice, Chapter 44, Sections 2A:44-143 through 2A:44-148\n\nNew Mexico Statutes, Chapter 13, Public Purchases and Property, Article 4, Public Works Contracts, Sections 13-4-18 through 13-4-20\n\nNew York Consolidated Laws, State Finance Law, Article 9, Contracts, §137\n\nNorth Carolina General Statutes, Chapter 44A, Statutory Liens and Charges, Article 3, Model Payment and Performance Bond, Sections 44A-25 through 44A-35\n\nNorth Dakota Century Code, Title 48, Public Buildings, Chapter 48-01.2, Public Improvement Bids and Contract, Sections 48-01.2-01, 48-01.2-09 through 48-01.2-12 and 48-01.2-23\n\nOhio Revised Code, Title I, State Government, Chapter 153, Public Improvements, Sections 153.54 through 153.581\n\nOklahoma Statutes, Title 61, Public Buildings and Public Works, Sections 61-1, 61-2, 61-13 and 61-15; Title 61, Public Competitive Bidding Act of 1974 (as amended), Section 61-112\n\nOregon Revised Statutes, Title 26, Public Facilities, Contracting and Insurance, Chapter 279C, Public Contracting – Public Improvements and Related Contracts, Sections 279C.380 through 279C.390, 279C.515, and 279C.600 through 279C.625\n\nPennsylvania Statutes, Title 8, Bonds and Recognizances, Chapter 13, Public Works Contractors' Bonds, Sections 191 through 202\n\nPuerto Rico Laws, Title 22, Public Works, Chapter 3, Public Works Contracts, Sections 47 through 58\n\nRhode Island General Laws, Title 37, Public Property and Works, Chapter 37-12, Contractors' Bond, Sections 37-12-1 through 37-12-11\n\nS.C. Code, Title 11, Public Finance, Chapter 35, South Carolina Consolidated Procurement Code, Article 9, Construction, Architect-Engineer, Construction Management, and Land Surveying Services, Subarticle 3, Construction Services, Section 11-35-3030\n\nSouth Dakota Codified Laws, Title 5, Public Property, Purchases and Contracts, Chapter 21, Performance Bonds for Public Improvement Contracts, Sections 5-21-1 through 5-21-8\n\nTenn. Code, Title 12, Public Property, Printing and Contracts, Chapter 4, Public Contracts, Part 2 – Surety Bonds, Sections 12-4-201 through 12-4-206\n\nTexas Government Code, Title 10, General Government, Subtitle F, State and Local Contracts and Fund Management, Chapter 2253, Sections 2253.001 through 2253.076; Texas Property Code, Title 5, Exempt Property and Liens, Subtitle B, Liens, Chapter 53, Mechanic's, Contractor's or Materialman's Lien, Subchapter J, Lien or Money Due Public Works Contractor, Sections 53.231 through 53.237\n\nUtah Code, Title 14, Contractors' Bonds, Chapter 1, Public Contracts, Sections 14-1-18 through 14-1-20; Title 38, Liens, Chapter 1, Mechanics' Liens, Section 38-1-32; Title 63G, General Government, Chapter 6, Utah Procurement Code, Sections 63G-6-504 through 63G-6-507\n\nVermont Statutes, Title 19, Highways, Chapter 1, State Highway Law, Section 10, Duties; \"See also\", Title 16, Education, Chapter 123, State Aid for Capital Construction Costs, § 3448\n\nVirginia Code, Title 2.2, Administration of Government, Chapter 43, Virginia Public Procurement Act, Sections 2.2-4336 through 2.2-4342\n\nWashington Revised Code, Title 39, Public Contracts and Indebtedness, Chapter 39.08, Contractor's Bond, Sections 39.08.010 through 39.08.100\n\nWest Virginia Code, Chapter 5, General Powers and Authority of the Governor, Secretary of State and Attorney General; Board of Public Works; Miscellaneous Agencies, Commissions, Offices, Programs, Etc., Article 22, Government Construction Contracts, Sections 5-22-1 and 5-22-2; Chapter 38, Liens, Article 22, Mechanics' Liens, Section 38-2-39\n\nWisconsin Statutes, Chapter 779, Liens, Subchapter I, Construction Liens, Sections 14 and 15\n\nWyoming Statutes, Title 16, City, County, State and Local Powers, Chapter 6, Public Property, Article 1, Public Works and Contracts, Sections 16-6-101 through 16-6-121\n\n"}
{"id": "48692522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48692522", "title": "Mahommah Gardo Baquaqua", "text": "Mahommah Gardo Baquaqua\n\nMahommah Gardo Baquaqua was a former slave, native of Zooggoo, West Africa, a tributary kingdom of Bergoo kingdom. He worked in Brazil as a captive; however, he escaped and fled to New York in 1847, assuring his freedom. He wrote a biography, published by American abolitionist Samuel Moore in 1854. His report is the only known document about the slave trade written by a former Brazilian slave.\n\nBaquaqua was born in Djougou (currently in Benin) between 1820 and 1830 in a prominent Muslim trader family. He learned the Quran, literature and mathematics in an Islamic school. Still as an adolescent, he and his brother took part in the succession wars in Daboya, where he was captured and then rescued.\n\nReturning to Djougou, he became the servant of a local dignitary, perhaps the chief of Soubroukou, whom he called 'king'. The abuses he committed in that period made him target of an ambush in which he was imprisoned and transported to Dahomey; he was embarked into a slave ship in 1845 and taken to Pernambuco in Brazil.\n\nBaquaqua was a slave in Olinda, Pernambuco for around two years. His master was a baker. He worked in the construction of houses, carrying stones, learned Portuguese, and performed as an \"escravo de tabuleiro\" (peddling slave). The cruelty of his Brazilian masters made him resort to alcoholism and attempt suicide.\n\nTaken to Rio de Janeiro, Baquaqua was incorporated with the crew of the trade ship \"Lembrança\", transporting goods to the southern provinces of Brazil. In 1847, a coffee shipment to the United States was his passport to freedom. The ship arrived in New York harbor in June, where it was approached by local abolitionists, who encouraged him to escape from the ship. After the escape, however, he was imprisoned in the local jail, and only the help of the abolitionists (who facilitated his escape from prison) prevented his return to the ship. He was then sent to Haiti, where he lived with the Reverend Judd, a Baptist missionary.\n\nConverted to Christianity and baptized in 1848, Baquaqua returned to the US due to the political instability in Haiti. He studied at the New York Central College in McGrawville for almost three years. In 1854, he moved to Canada; his autobiography was published the same year by Samuel Downing Moore in Detroit.\n\nIt not known what happened to Baquaqua after 1857. He was then in England and had turned to the American Baptist Free Mission Society to be sent as a missionary to Africa.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6743449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6743449", "title": "Moneris Solutions", "text": "Moneris Solutions\n\nMoneris is Canada’s largest financial technology company that specializes in payment processing. Moneris was established in December 2000 as a joint venture between the Royal Bank of Canada and Bank of Montreal. The company is headquartered in Toronto, Ontario and has a contact centre in Sackville, New Brunswick. Moneris’ U.S. operations (formerly known as Harris Bank Merchant Services/The Charge-It-System) were based in Schaumburg, Illinois, until being sold in November 2016 to Vantiv.\n\nMoneris processes more than 3 billion transactions a year for over 350,000 merchant locations, and employs more than 1,900 people across North America.\n\n2000 – Moneris established. Becomes first Canadian acquirer to offer both VISA and MasterCard merchant accounts in one single point of contact\n\n2003 – Acquired Ernex Marketing Technologies, a gift and loyalty card processor primarily based in Burnaby, British Columbia\n\n2005 – Processed Canada’s first Visa-certified EMV transaction\n\n2005 – Processed Canada’s first Interac Online transaction\n\n2007 – Became one of the first acquirers in Canada to be certified by Interac Association, MasterCard and VISA to deliver EMV technology\n\n2008 – Acquired Keycorp Canada, one of the largest providers of POS support services\n"}
{"id": "45330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45330", "title": "Orange County, California", "text": "Orange County, California\n\nOrange County is a county in the Los Angeles metropolitan area in the U.S. state of California. As of the 2010 census, the population was 3,010,232, making it the third-most populous county in California, the sixth-most populous in the United States, and more populous than 21 U.S. states. Its county seat is Santa Ana. It is the second most densely populated county in the state, behind San Francisco County. The county's four largest cities by population, Anaheim, Santa Ana (county seat), Irvine, and Huntington Beach, each have a population exceeding 200,000. Several of Orange County's cities are on the Pacific Ocean western coast, including Huntington Beach, Newport Beach, Laguna Beach, Dana Point, and San Clemente.\n\nOrange County is included in the Los Angeles-Long Beach-Anaheim, Metropolitan Statistical Area. Thirty-four incorporated towns and cities are in the county; the newest is Aliso Viejo, which was incorporated in 2001. Anaheim was the first city, incorporated in 1870, when the region was still part of neighboring Los Angeles County. Whereas most population centers in the United States tend to be identified by a major city with a large downtown \ncentral business district (CBD), Orange County has no single major downtown / CBD or dominant urban center. Santa Ana, Costa Mesa, and Irvine all have smaller high-rise CBDs, and other, older cities like Anaheim, Fullerton, Huntington Beach, and Orange have traditional American downtowns without high-rises. The county's northern and central portions are heavily urbanized and fairly dense, despite the prevalence of the single-family home as a dominant land use. Its southern portion is more suburban, with less density and limited urbanization. There are several \"edge city\"-style developments, such as Irvine Business Center, Newport Center, and South Coast Metro. Orange County is part of the \"Tech Coast\".\n\nThe county is a tourist center, with attractions like Disneyland, Knott's Berry Farm, and several popular beaches along its more than of coastline. It has also historically been known for its political conservatism; a 2005 academic study listed three Orange County cities as among America's 25 most conservative. In the 2018 midterm elections, the Democratic Party gained control of every Congressional seat in the county.\n\nMembers of the Tongva, Juaneño, and Luiseño Native American groups long inhabited the area. After the 1769 expedition of Gaspar de Portolà, a Spanish expedition led by Junipero Serra named the area Valle de Santa Ana (Valley of Saint Anne). On November 1, 1776, Mission San Juan Capistrano became the area's first permanent European settlement. Among those who came with Portolá were José Manuel Nieto and José Antonio Yorba. Both these men were given land grants—Rancho Los Nietos and Rancho Santiago de Santa Ana, respectively. The Nieto heirs were granted land in 1834. The Nieto ranches were known as Rancho Los Alamitos, Rancho Las Bolsas, and Rancho Los Coyotes. Yorba heirs Bernardo Yorba and Teodosio Yorba were also granted Rancho Cañón de Santa Ana (Santa Ana Canyon Ranch) and Rancho Lomas de Santiago, respectively. Other ranchos in Orange County were granted by the Mexican government during the Mexican period in Alta California.\n\nA severe drought in the 1860s devastated the prevailing industry, cattle ranching, and much land came into the possession of Richard O'Neill, Sr., James Irvine and other land barons. In 1887, silver was discovered in the Santa Ana Mountains, attracting settlers via the Santa Fe and Southern Pacific Railroads.\n\nAfter several failed attempts in previous sessions, the California legislature passed a bill authorizing the portion of Los Angeles County south of Coyote Creek to hold a referendum on whether to remain part of Los Angeles County or to secede and form a new county to be named “Orange” as directed by the legislature. Such referendum required a 2/3 vote for secession to take place, and subsequently on June 4th, 1889, the residents south of Coyote Creek voted 2,509 to 500 in favor of secession. After such referendum, Los Angeles County filed three lawsuits in the courts to stall and stop the secession from occurring, but such attempts were futile. On July 17, 1889, a second referendum was held south of the Coyote Creek to determine if the county seat of the to-be county to be in either Anaheim or Santa Ana, along with an election for every county officer. In the end, Santa Ana defeated Anaheim in such referendum and elected right leaning officers, with some, including one of the primary lobbyists for the creation of the county, Henry W. Head, elected to the Board of Supervisors while being a member of the Ku Klux Klan (even though “...the Klan wasn't even supposed to exist at this time, with Bedford having officially told the Klan to disband and burn all belongings.” \"OC Weekly\"), with Head’s son, Horace Head, elected as District Attorney of the soon to be county, who was known to, as stated by the OC Weekly, threaten “...any Mexicans who walked in front of their homes with shotguns when not burning crosses on front lawns,” along with Horace Head supporting and defending his fathers affiliation with the Ku Klux Klan. With the referendum taken place, the County of Orange was officially incorporated on August 1st, 1889, as prescribed by state law. Since the date of the incorporation of the county, the only geographical changes to have occurred which affected Orange County was when the County and Los Angeles County agreed to trade land around Coyote Creek to adjust the border of the two counties to conform with city blocks.\n\nThe county is said to have been named for the citrus fruit in an attempt to promote immigration by suggesting a semi-tropical paradise–a place where anything could grow.\nOther citrus crops, avocados, and oil extraction were also important to the early economy. Orange County benefited from the July 4, 1904 completion of the Pacific Electric Railway, a trolley connecting Los Angeles with Santa Ana and Newport Beach. The link made Orange County an accessible weekend retreat for celebrities of early Hollywood. It was deemed so significant that Pacific City changed its name to Huntington Beach in honor of Henry E. Huntington, president of the Pacific Electric and nephew of Collis Huntington. Transportation further improved with the completion of the State Route and U.S. Route 101 (now mostly Interstate 5) in the 1920s.\n\nAgriculture, such as that involving the boysenberries made famous by Buena Park native Walter Knott, began to decline after World War II. However, the county's prosperity soared during this time. The completion of Interstate 5 in 1954 helped make Orange County a bedroom community for many who moved to Southern California to work in aerospace and manufacturing. Orange County received a further boost in 1955 with the opening of Disneyland.\n\nIn 1969, Yorba Linda-born Orange County native Richard Nixon became the 37th President of the United States.\n\nIn the 1980s, Orange County had become the second most populous county in California as the population topped two million for the first time.\n\nIn 1994, an investment fund meltdown led to the criminal prosecution of treasurer Robert Citron. The county lost at least $1.5 billion through high-risk investments in bonds. The loss was blamed on derivatives by some media reports. On December 6, 1994, the County of Orange declared Chapter 9 bankruptcy, from which it emerged on June 12, 1996. The Orange County bankruptcy was at the time the largest municipal bankruptcy in U.S. history.\n\nIn recent years, land use conflicts have arisen between established areas in the north and less developed areas in the south. These conflicts have regarded issues such as construction of new toll roads and the repurposing of a decommissioned air base. El Toro Marine Corps Air Station was designated by a voter measure in 1994 to be developed into an international airport to complement the existing John Wayne Airport. But subsequent voter initiatives and court actions have caused the airport plan to be permanently shelved. Instead, it became the Orange County Great Park.\n\nAccording to the U.S. Census Bureau, the county has a total area of , of which is land and (16.6%) is water. It is the smallest county in Southern California. The average annual temperature is about .\n\nOrange County is bordered on the southwest by the Pacific Ocean, on the north by Los Angeles County, on the northeast by San Bernardino County and Riverside County, and on the southeast by San Diego County.\nThe northwestern part of the county lies on the coastal plain of the Los Angeles Basin, while the southeastern end rises into the foothills of the Santa Ana Mountains. Most of Orange County's population reside in one of two shallow coastal valleys that lie in the basin, the Santa Ana Valley and the Saddleback Valley. The Santa Ana Mountains lie within the eastern boundaries of the county and of the Cleveland National Forest. The high point is Santiago Peak (), about east of Santa Ana. Santiago Peak and nearby Modjeska Peak, just shorter, form a ridge known as Saddleback, visible from almost everywhere in the county. The Peralta Hills extend westward from the Santa Ana Mountains through the communities of Anaheim Hills, Orange, and ending in Olive. The Loma Ridge is another prominent feature, running parallel to the Santa Ana Mountains through the central part of the county, separated from the taller mountains to the east by Santiago Canyon.\n\nThe Santa Ana River is the county's principal watercourse, flowing through the middle of the county from northeast to southwest. Its major tributary to the south and east is Santiago Creek. Other watercourses within the county include Aliso Creek, San Juan Creek, and Horsethief Creek. In the North, the San Gabriel River also briefly crosses into Orange County and exits into the Pacific on the Los Angeles-Orange County line between the cities of Long Beach and Seal Beach. Laguna Beach is home to the county's only natural lakes, Laguna Lakes, which are formed by water rising up against an underground fault.\nResidents sometimes divide the county into north Orange County and south Orange County. In effect, this is a division of the county into northwestern and southeastern halves following the county's natural diagonal orientation along the coast. This is more of a cultural and demographic distinction perpetuated by the popular television shows The OC, The Real Housewives of Orange County and . The distinction exists between the older areas closer to Los Angeles and the more affluent and recently developed areas to the south. A transition between older and newer development may be considered to exist roughly parallel to State Route 55, also known as the Costa Mesa Freeway. This transition is accentuated by large flanking tracts of sparsely developed area occupied until recent years by agriculture and military airfields.\n\nWhile there is a northeast to southwest topographic transition from elevated areas inland to the lower coastal band, there is no formal geographic division between North and South County. Perpendicular to that gradient, the Santa Ana River roughly divides the county into northwestern and southeastern sectors. Each sector comprises 40 to 60 percent of the county respectively by area. There are significant political, demographic, economic, and cultural distinctions between North and South Orange County, with North Orange County having greater populations of people of color, younger populations, greater percentages of renters, lower median incomes, higher rates of unemployment, and greater proportions of voters registered as Democrats versus as Republicans. However, certain areas in both North and South Orange County vary from these general trends.\n\n\n\nThe 2010 United States Census reported that Orange County had a population of 3,010,232. The racial makeup of Orange County was 1,830,758 (60.8%) White (44.0% non-Hispanic white), 50,744 (1.7%) African American, 18,132 (0.6%) Native American, 537,804 (17.9%) Asian, 9,354 (0.3%) Pacific Islander, 435,641 (14.5%) from other races, and 127,799 (4.2%) from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 1,012,973 persons (33.7%).\n\nThe Hispanic and Latino population is predominantly of Mexican origin; this group accounts for 28.5% of the county's population, followed by Salvadorans (0.8%), Guatemalans (0.5%), Puerto Ricans (0.4%), Cubans (0.3%), Colombians (0.3%), and Peruvians (0.3%). Santa Ana with its population reportedly 75 percent Hispanic/Latino, is among the most Hispanic/Latino percentage cities in both California and the U.S., esp. of Mexican-American descent. See also Logan Park (Santa Ana), the city's largest and oldest barrio.\n\nAmong the Asian population, 6.1% are Vietnamese, followed by Koreans (2.9%), Chinese (2.7%), Filipinos (2.4%), Indians (1.4%), Japanese (1.1%), Cambodians (0.2%) Pakistanis (0.2%), Thais (0.1%), Indonesians (0.1%), and Laotians (0.1%). According to KPCC in 2014, Orange County has the largest proportion of Asian Americans in Southern California, where one in five residents are Asian American. There is also a significant Muslim population in the county.\n\nAs of the census of 2000, there were 2,846,289 people, 935,287 households, and 667,794 families residing in the county, making Orange County the second most populous county in California. The population density was 1,392/km (3,606/sq mi). There were 969,484 housing units at an average density of 474/km (1,228/sq mi). The racial makeup of the county was 64.8% White, 13.6% Asian, 1.7% African American, 0.7% Native American, 0.3% Pacific Islander, 14.8% from other races, and 4.1% from two or more races. 30.8% are Hispanic or Latino of any race. 8.9% were of German, 6.9% English and 6.0% Irish ancestry according to Census 2000. 58.6% spoke only English at home; 25.3% spoke Spanish, 4.7% Vietnamese, 1.9% Korean, 1.5% Chinese (Cantonese or Mandarin) and 1.2% Tagalog.\n\nIn 1990, still according to the census there were 2,410,556 people residing in the county. The racial makeup of the county was 78.6% White, 10.3% Asian or Pacific Islander, 1.8% African American, 0.5% Native American, and 8.8% from other races. 23.4% were Hispanic or Latino of any race.\n\nOut of 935,287 households, 37.0% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 55.9% married couples were living together, 10.7% had a female householder with no husband present, and 28.6% were non-families. 21.1% of all households were made up of individuals and 7.2% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 3.00 and the average family size was 3.48.\n\nEthnic change has been transforming the population. By 2009, nearly 45 percent of the residents spoke a language other than English at home. Whites now comprise only 45 percent of the population, while the numbers of Hispanics grow steadily, along with Vietnamese, Korean and Chinese families. The percentage of foreign-born residents jumped to 30 percent in 2008 from 6 percent in 1970. The mayor of Irvine, Sukhee Kang, was born in Korea, making him the first Korean-American to run a major American city. “We have 35 languages spoken in our city,” Kang observed. The population is diverse age-wise, with 27.0% under the age of 18, 9.4% from 18 to 24, 33.2% from 25 to 44, 20.6% from 45 to 64, and 9.9% 65 years of age or older. The median age is 33 years. For every 100 females, there were 99.0 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 96.7 males.\n\nThe median income for a household in the county was $61,899, and the median income for a family was $75,700 (these figures had risen to $71,601 and $81,260 respectively as of a 2007 estimate). Males had a median income of $45,059 versus $34,026 for females. The per capita income for the county was $25,826. About 7.0% of families and 10.3% of the population were below the poverty line, including 13.2% of those under age 18 and 6.2% of those age 65 or over.\n\nResidents of Orange County are known as \"Orange Countians\".\n\nOrange County is the base for several religious organizations:\n\nOrange County is a charter county of California; its seat is Santa Ana.\n\nThe elected offices of the county government consist of the five-member Board of Supervisors, Assessor, Auditor-Controller, Clerk-Recorder, District Attorney-Public Administrator, Sheriff-Coroner, and Treasurer-Tax Collector. Except for the Board of Supervisors, each of these elected officers are elected by the voters of the entire county and oversee their own County departments.\n\n, the six countywide elected officers are:\n\nA seventh countywide elected officer, the County Superintendent of Schools (jointly with an independently-elected County Board of Education) oversees the independent Orange County Department of Education.\n\nEach of the five members of the Board of Supervisors is elected from a regional district, and together, the board oversees the activities of the county's agencies and departments and sets policy on development, public improvements, and county services. At the beginning of each calendar year, the Supervisors select a Chair and Vice Chair amongst themselves. The Chair presides over board meetings, and the Vice Chair presides when the Chair is not present. The Board appoints the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors, the County Counsel, the Performance Audit Director, and the Director of the Office of Independent Review. The Board also appoints the County Executive Officer to act as the chief administrative officer of the county and the manager of all agencies and departments not under the sole jurisdiction of an elected county official nor the sole jurisdiction of one of the four aforementioned officers appointed by the Board.\n\n, the members of the Orange County Board of Supervisors are:\n\nThe County Department of Education is wholly separate from the County government and is jointly overseen by the elected County Superintendent of Schools and the five-member Orange County Board of Education, whose trustees are popularly elected from five separate trustee areas.\n\n, the six elected officials overseeing the Orange County Department of Education are:\n\nThe VA loan limit for Orange County is $625,500 as of 2016.\n\nOn July 12, 2010, it was revealed that former Sheriff Mike Carona received over $215,000 in pension checks in 2009, despite his felony conviction. A 2005 state law denied a public pension to public officials convicted of wrongdoing in office, however, that law only applied to benefits accrued after December 2005. Carona became eligible for his pension at age 50, and is also entitled, by law, to medical and dental benefits. It was noted that the county's retirement system faces a massive shortfall totaling $3.7 billion unfunded liabilities, and Carona was one of approximately 400 retired Orange County public servants who received more than $100,000 in benefits in 2009. Also on the list of those receiving extra-large pension checks is former treasurer-tax collector Robert Citron, whose investments, which were made while consulting psychics and astrologers, led Orange County into bankruptcy in 1994.\n\nCitron, a Democrat, funneled billions of public dollars into questionable investments, and at first the returns were high and cities, schools and special districts borrowed millions to join in the investments. But the strategy backfired, and Citron's investment pool lost $1.64 billion. Nearly $200 million had to be slashed from the county budget and more than 1,000 jobs were cut. The county was forced to borrow $1 billion.\n\nThe California Foundation for Fiscal Responsibility filed a lawsuit against the pension system to get the list. The agency had claimed that pensioner privacy would be compromised by the release. A judge approved the release and the documents were released late June 2010. The release of the documents has reopened debate on the pension plan for retired public safety workers approved in 2001 when Carona was sheriff.\n\nCalled \"3 percent at 50,\" it lets deputies retire at age 50 with 3 percent of their highest year's pay for every year of service. Before it was approved and applied retroactively, employees received 2 percent. \"It was right after Sept. 11,\" said Orange County Supervisor John Moorlach. \"All of a sudden, public safety people became elevated to god status. The Board of Supervisors were tripping over themselves to make the motion.\" He called it \"one of the biggest shifts of money from the private sector to the public sector.\" Moorlach, who was not on the board when the plan was approved, led the fight to repeal the benefit. A lawsuit, which said the benefit should go before voters, was rejected in Los Angeles County Superior Court in 2009 and is now under appeal. Carona opposed the lawsuit when it was filed, likening its filing to a \"nuclear bomb\" for deputies.\n\nOrange County has long been known as a Republican stronghold and has consistently sent Republican representatives to the state and federal legislatures. \n\nIn 1936 Orange County gave Franklin D. Roosevelt a majority of its presidential vote. The Republican nominee won Orange County in the next 19 presidential elections, until Hillary Clinton won the county with a majority in 2016.\n\nRepublican majorities in Orange County helped deliver California's electoral votes to Republican nominees Richard Nixon in 1960, 1968 and 1972, Gerald Ford in 1976, Ronald Reagan in 1980 and 1984, and George H. W. Bush in 1988. As a measure of how Republican Orange County was during this period, it was one of only five counties in the state that voted for Barry Goldwater in 1964.\n\nThe Republican margin began to narrow in the 1990s and 2000s as the state trended Democratic, until, in the 2018 midterm elections, the Democratic Party gained control of all seven Congressional districts in the county, including all four districts entirely in the county. This prompted media outlets to declare Orange County dead, with the Los Angeles Times writing an obituary for the “old Orange County.”</ref>\n\nCalifornia's 73rd State Assembly district is widely considered the safest Republican state assembly seat and currently held by Bill Brough. The highest ranking Republican elected official in California, Board of Equalization Vice Chair Diane Harkey, is also an Orange County resident.\n\nFor the 115th United States Congress in the United States House of Representatives, Orange County is split between seven congressional districts:\n\nThe 39th, 45th, 46th, and 48th districts are all centered in Orange County. The 38th and 47th have their population centers in Los Angeles County, while the 49th is primarily San Diego County-based.\n\nIn the California State Senate, Orange County is split into 5 districts:\n\nAccording to the Orange County Registrar of Voters, as of May 21, 2012, Orange County had 1,612,145 registered voters. Of these, 42.17% (679,877) were registered Republicans, and 31.41% (506,389) registered Democrats. An additional 22.01% (354,820) declined to state a political party.\n\nOrange County has produced such notable Republicans as President Richard Nixon (born in Yorba Linda and lived in Fullerton and San Clemente), U.S. Senator John F. Seymour (previously mayor of Anaheim, California), and U.S. Senator Thomas Kuchel (of Anaheim). Former Congressman Christopher Cox (of Newport Beach), a White House counsel for President Reagan, is also a former chairman of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Orange County was also home to former Republican Congressman John G. Schmitz, a presidential candidate in 1972 from the ultra-conservative American Independent Party and the father of Mary Kay Letourneau. In 1996, Curt Pringle (later mayor of Anaheim) became the first Republican Speaker of the California State Assembly in decades.\n\nWhile the growth of the county's Hispanic and Asian populations in recent decades has significantly influenced Orange County's culture, its conservative reputation has remained largely intact. Partisan voter registration patterns of Hispanics, Asians and other ethnic minorities in the county have tended to reflect the surrounding demographics, with resultant Republican majorities in all but the central portion of the county. When Loretta Sanchez, a Blue Dog Democrat, defeated veteran Republican Bob Dornan in 1996, she was continuing a trend of Democratic representation of that district that had been interrupted by Dornan's 1984 upset of former Congressman Jerry Patterson. Until 1992, Sanchez herself was a moderate Republican, and she is viewed as somewhat more moderate than other Democrats from Southern California.\n\nRepublicans have responded to the influx of nonwhite immigrants by making more explicit efforts to court the Hispanic and Asian vote. In 2004, George W. Bush captured 60% of the county's vote, up from 56% in 2000 despite a higher Democratic popular vote statewide. Although Barbara Boxer won statewide, and fared better in Orange County than she did in 1998, Republican Bill Jones defeated her in the county, 51% to 43%. While the 39% that John Kerry received is higher than the percentage Bill Clinton won in 1992 or 1996, the percentage of the vote George W. Bush received in 2004 (60%) is the highest any presidential candidate has received since 1988, showing a still-dominant GOP presence in the county. In 2006, Senator Dianne Feinstein won 45% of the vote in the county, the best showing of a Democrat in a Senate race in over four decades, but Orange was nevertheless the only Coastal California county to vote for her Republican opponent, Dick Mountjoy. In terms of voter registration, the Democratic Party has a plurality or majority of registrations only in Buena Park, Laguna Beach, Santa Ana and Stanton.\n\nThe county is featured prominently in Lisa McGirr's book \"Suburban Warriors: The Origins of the New American Right\". She argues that the its conservative political orientation in the 20th century owed much to its settlement by farmers from the Great Plains, who reacted strongly to communist sympathies, the civil rights movement, and the turmoil of the 1960s in nearby Los Angeles — across the \"Orange Curtain\".\n\nIn the 1970s and 1980s, Orange County was one of California's leading Republican voting blocs and a subculture of residents with \"Middle American\" values that emphasized capitalist religious morality in contrast to West coast liberalism.\n\nOrange County has many Republican voters from culturally conservative Asian-American, Middle Eastern and Latino immigrant groups. The large Vietnamese-American communities in Garden Grove and Westminster are predominantly Republican; Vietnamese Americans registered Republicans outnumber those registered as Democrats, 55% to 22%. Republican Assemblyman Van Tran was the first Vietnamese-American elected to a state legislature and joined with Texan Hubert Vo as the highest-ranking elected Vietnamese-American in the United States until the 2008 election of Joseph Cao in Louisiana's 2nd congressional district. In the 2007 special election for the vacant county supervisor seat following Democrat Lou Correa's election to the state senate, two Vietnamese-American Republican candidates topped the list of 10 candidates, separated from each other by only seven votes, making the Orange County Board of Supervisors entirely Republican; Correa is the sole Democrat to have served on the Board since 1987 and only the fifth since 1963.\n\nThe following table includes the number of incidents reported and the rate per 1,000 persons for each type of offense.\n\nOrange County is the headquarters of many Fortune 500 companies including Ingram Micro (#69) and First American Corporation (#312) in Santa Ana, Broadcom (#343) in Irvine, Western Digital (#439) in Lake Forest and Pacific Life (#452) in Newport Beach. Irvine is the home of numerous start-up companies and also is the home of Fortune 1000 headquarters for Allergan, Edwards Lifesciences, Epicor, and Sun Healthcare Group. Other Fortune 1000 companies in Orange County include Beckman Coulter in Brea, Quiksilver in Huntington Beach and Apria Healthcare Group in Lake Forest. Irvine is also the home of notable technology companies like PC-manufacturer Gateway Inc., router manufacturer Linksys, video/computer game creator Blizzard Entertainment, and in-flight product manufacturer Panasonic Avionics Corporation. Also, the prestigious Mercedes-Benz Classic Center USA is located in the City of Irvine. Many regional headquarters for international businesses reside in Orange County like Mazda, Toshiba, Toyota, Samsung, Kia Motors, in the City of Irvine, Mitsubishi in the City of Cypress, and Hyundai in the City of Fountain Valley. Fashion is another important industry to Orange County. Oakley, Inc. and Del Taco are headquartered in Lake Forest. Hurley International is headquartered in Costa Mesa. Both the network cyber security firm Milton Security Group and the shoe company Pleaser USA, Inc. are located in Fullerton. St. John is headquartered in Irvine. Tustin, California, is home to Ricoh Electronics, New American Funding, Safmarine and Rockwell Collins. Wet Seal is headquartered in Lake Forest. PacSun is headquartered in Anaheim. Restaurants such as Taco Bell, El Pollo Loco, In-N-Out Burger, Claim Jumper, Marie Callender's, Wienerschnitzel, have headquarters in the city of Irvine as well. Gaikai also has its headquarters in the Orange County.\n\nOrange County contains several notable shopping malls. Among these are South Coast Plaza (the largest mall in California, the third largest in the United States, and 31st largest in the world) in Costa Mesa and Fashion Island in Newport Beach. Other significant malls include the Brea Mall, Main Place Santa Ana, The Shops at Mission Viejo, The Outlets at Orange, the Irvine Spectrum Center, and Downtown Disney. The outlets at San Clemente are the newest addition to shopping in Orange County and are set to open before the end of 2015.\n\nTourism remains a vital aspect of Orange County's economy. Anaheim is the main tourist hub, with the Disneyland Resort's Disneyland being the second most visited theme park in the world. Also Knotts Berry Farm which gets about 7 million visitors annually located in the city of Buena Park. The Anaheim Convention Center receives many major conventions throughout the year. Resorts within the Beach Cities receive visitors throughout the year due to their close proximity to the beach, biking paths, mountain hiking trails, golf courses, shopping and dining.\n\nOrange County is the home of many colleges and universities, including:\nColleges\nUniversities\n\nSome institutions not based in Orange County operate satellite campuses, including the University of Southern California, National University, Pepperdine University, and Springfield College.\n\nThe Orange County Department of Education oversees 28 school districts.\n\nTwo television stations—KOCE-TV, the main PBS station in the Southland and KDOC-TV, an independent—are located in Orange County.\n\nCounty-wide politics and government coverage is primarily provided by \"The Orange County Register\" and \"Voice of OC\". \"OC Weekly\" is an alternative weekly publication, and \"Excélsior\" is a Spanish-language newspaper. A few communities are served by the \"Los Angeles Times\" publication of the \"Daily Pilot\". \"Orange Coast\" was established in 1974 and is the oldest continuously published lifestyle magazine in the region. \"OC Music Magazine\" is also based out of Orange County, serving local musicians and artists.\n\nOrange County is served by radio stations from the Los Angeles area. There are a few radio stations that are actually located in Orange County. KYLA 92.7 FM has a Christian format. KSBR 88.5 FM airs a jazz music format branded as \"Jazz-FM\" along with news programming. KUCI 88.9 FM is a free form college radio station that broadcasts from UC Irvine. KWIZ 96.7 FM, located in Santa Ana, airs a regional Mexican music format branded as \"La Rockola 96.7\". KWVE-FM 107.9 is owned by the Calvary Chapel of Costa Mesa. KWVE-FM is also the primary Emergency Alert System station for the county. The Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim also own and operate a sports-only radio station from Orange, KLAA. KX 93.5 FM broadcasts out of Laguna Beach and features an eclectic mix of mostly alternative rock.\n\nTransit in Orange County is offered primarily by the Orange County Transportation Authority. The American Public Transportation Association (APTA) cited OCTA as the best large public transportation system in the United States for 2005. OCTA manages the county's bus network and funds the construction and maintenance of local streets, highways, and freeways; regulates taxicab services; maintains express toll lanes through the median of California State Route 91; and works with Southern California's Metrolink to provide commuter rail service along three lines—the Orange County Line, the 91 Line, and the Inland Empire-Orange County Line.\n\nGround transportation in Orange County relies heavily on three major interstate highways: the Santa Ana Freeway (I-5), the San Diego Freeway (I-405 and I-5 south of Irvine), and the San Gabriel River Freeway (I-605), which only briefly enters Orange County territory in the northwest. The other freeways in the county are state highways, and include the perpetually congested Riverside and Artesia Freeway (SR 91) and the Garden Grove Freeway (SR 22) running east-west, and the Orange Freeway (SR 57), the Costa Mesa Freeway (SR/SR 55), the Laguna Freeway (SR 133), the San Joaquin Transportation Corridor (SR 73), the Eastern Transportation Corridor (SR 261, SR 133, SR 241), and the Foothill Transportation Corridor (SR 241) running north-south. Minor stub freeways include the Richard M. Nixon Freeway (SR 90), also known as Imperial Highway, and the southern terminus of Pacific Coast Highway (SR 1). There are no U.S. Highways in Orange County, though two existed in the county until the mid-1960s: 91 and 101. 91 went through what is now the state route of the same number, and 101 was replaced by Interstate 5. SR-1 was once a bypass of US-101 (Route 101A).\nThe bus network comprises 6,542 stops on 77 lines, running along most major streets, and accounts for 210,000 boardings a day. The fleet of 817 buses is gradually being replaced by CNG (Compressed natural gas)-powered vehicles, which already represent over 40% of the total fleet. Service is operated by OCTA employees and First Transit under contract. OCTA operates one bus rapid transit service, Bravo, on Harbor Boulevard. In addition, OCTA offers paratransit service for the disabled, also operated by MV.\n\nStarting in 1992, Metrolink has operated three commuter rail lines through Orange County, and has also maintained Rail-to-Rail service with parallel Amtrak service. On a typical weekday, over 40 trains run along the Orange County Line, the 91 Line and the Inland Empire-Orange County Line. Along with Metrolink riders on parallel Amtrak lines, these lines generate approximately 15,000 boardings per weekday. Metrolink also began offering weekend service on the Orange County Line and the Inland Empire-Orange County line in the summer of 2006. As ridership has steadily increased in the region, new stations have opened at Anaheim Canyon, Buena Park, Tustin, and Laguna Niguel/Mission Viejo. Plans for a future station in Placentia are underway and is expected to be completed by 2014.\n\nSince 1938, the Atchison, Topeka, and Santa Fe Railroad and later Amtrak, has operated the \"Pacific Surfliner\" regional passenger train route (previously named the \"San Diegan\" until 2000) through Orange County. The route includes stops at eight stations in Orange County including San Clemente Pier (selected trips), San Juan Capistrano, Laguna Niguel/Mission Viejo (selected trips), Irvine, Santa Ana, Orange (selected trips), Anaheim Regional Transportation Intermodal Center (ARTIC), and Fullerton Transportation Center.\n\nA streetcar line in Anaheim is undergoing environmental impact assessment. This line will connect the Disneyland Resort, Convention Center, and Angel Stadium to the ARTIC transportation hub, in the city of Anaheim. The Santa Ana/Garden Grove Fixed Guideway Project plans a streetcar line connecting Downtown Santa Ana to the Depot at Santa Ana has completed the environmental document and is entering the design phase. OCTA has also proposed connecting the two systems via Harbor Boulevard and the West Santa Ana Branch corridor.\n\nA car and passenger ferry service, the Balboa Island Ferry, comprising three ferries running every five minutes, operates within Newport Harbor between Balboa Peninsula and Balboa Island in Newport Beach. The Catalina Flyer connects the Balboa Peninsula to Avalon with daily round-trip passage through about nine months of the year. The Catalina Express connects Dana Point to Avalon (with departures from two greater Long Beach ports also connecting to Two Harbors).\n\nOrange County's only major airport is John Wayne Airport. Although its abbreviation (SNA) refers to Santa Ana, the airport is in fact located in unincorporated territory surrounded by the cities of Newport Beach, Costa Mesa, and Irvine. Unincorporated Orange County (including the John Wayne Airport) has mailing addresses, which go through the Santa Ana Post Office. For this reason, SNA was chosen as the IATA Code for the airport. The actual Destination Moniker which appears on most Arrival/Departure Monitors in airports throughout the United States is \"Orange County\", which is the common nickname used for the OMB Metropolitan Designation: Santa Ana-Anaheim-Irvine, California. Its modern Thomas F. Riley Terminal handles over 9 million passengers annually through 14 different airlines.\n\nThe area's warm Mediterranean climate and of year-round beaches attract millions of tourists annually. Huntington Beach is a hot spot for sunbathing and surfing; nicknamed \"Surf City, U.S.A.\", it is home to many surfing competitions. \"The Wedge\", at the tip of The Balboa Peninsula in Newport Beach, is one of the most famous body surfing spots in the world. Southern California surf culture is prominent in Orange County's beach cities.\n\nOther tourist destinations include the theme parks Disneyland and Disney California Adventure Park in Anaheim and Knott's Berry Farm in Buena Park. Since the 2011 closure of Wild Rivers in Irvine, the county is home to just one water park: Soak City in Buena Park. The Anaheim Convention Center is the largest such facility on the West Coast. The old town area in the City of Orange (the traffic circle at the middle of Chapman Ave. at Glassell) still maintains its 1950s image, and appeared in the movie \"That Thing You Do!\".\n\nLittle Saigon is another tourist destination, home to the largest concentration of Vietnamese people outside Vietnam. There are also sizable Taiwanese, Chinese, and Korean communities, particularly in western Orange County. This is evident in several Asian-influenced shopping centers in Asian American hubs like Irvine.\n\nHistorical points of interest include Mission San Juan Capistrano, the renowned destination of migrating swallows. The Richard Nixon Presidential Library and Museum is in Yorba Linda and the Richard Nixon Birthplace, on the grounds of the Library, is a National Historic Landmark. John Wayne's yacht, the \"Wild Goose\" or USS YMS-328, is in Newport Beach. Other notable structures include the home of Madame Helena Modjeska, in Modjeska Canyon on Santiago Creek; Ronald Reagan Federal Building and Courthouse in Santa Ana, the largest building in the county; the historic Balboa Pavilion in Newport Beach; and the Huntington Beach Pier. The county has nationally known centers of worship, such as Crystal Cathedral in Garden Grove, the largest house of worship in California; Saddleback Church in Lake Forest, one of the largest churches in the United States; and the Calvary Chapel.\n\nSince the fall 2003 premiere of the hit Fox series \"The O.C.,\" and the 2007 Bravo series \"The Real Housewives of Orange County\", tourism has increased with travelers from across the globe hoping to see sights from the shows.\n\nOrange County has some of the most exclusive and expensive neighborhoods in the U.S., many along the Orange Coast, and some in north Orange County.\n\nOrange County has been the setting for numerous written works and motion pictures, as well as a popular location for shooting motion pictures.\n\nThe city of San Juan Capistrano is where writer Johnston McCulley set the first novella about Zorro, \"The Curse of Capistrano\". It was published in 1919 and later renamed \"The Mark of Zorro\".\n\nHuntington Beach annually plays host to the U.S. Open of Surfing, AVP Pro Beach Volleyball and \"Vans World Championship of Skateboarding\". It was also the shooting location for Pro Beach Hockey. USA Water Polo, Inc. has moved its headquarters to Huntington Beach. Orange County's active outdoor culture is home to many surfers, skateboarders, mountain bikers, cyclists, climbers, hikers, kayaking, sailing and sand volleyball.\n\nThe Major League Baseball team in Orange County is the Los Angeles Angels. The team won the World Series under manager Mike Scioscia in 2002. In 2005, new owner\nArte Moreno wanted to change the name to \"Los Angeles Angels\" in order to better tap into the Los Angeles media market, the second largest in the country. However, the standing agreement with the city of Anaheim demanded that they have \"Anaheim\" in the name, so they became the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim. This name change was hotly disputed by the city of Anaheim, but the change stood and still stands today, which prompted a lawsuit by the city of Anaheim against Angels owner Arte Moreno, won by Moreno.\n\nThe county's National Hockey League team, the Anaheim Ducks, won the 2007 Stanley Cup beating the Ottawa Senators. They also came close to winning the 2003 Stanley Cup finals after losing in Game 7 against the New Jersey Devils.\n\nThe Toshiba Classic, the only PGA Champions Tour event in the area, is held each March at The Newport Beach Country Club. Past champions include Fred Couples (2010), Hale Irwin (1998 and 2002), Nick Price (2011), Bernhard Langer (2008) and Jay Haas (2007). The tournament benefits the Hoag Hospital Foundation and has raised over $16 million in its first 16 years.\n\nOrange County SC is a United Soccer League team and are the only professional soccer club in Orange County. The team's first season was in 2011 and it was successful as Charlie Naimo's team made it to the quarter-finals of the playoffs. With home games played at Championship Soccer Stadium in Orange County Great Park the team looks to grow in the Orange County community and reach continued success. Former and current Orange County SC players include Richard Chaplow, Bright Dike, Maykel Galindo, Carlos Borja, and goalkeeper Amir Abedzadeh.\n\nThe National Football League football left the county when the Los Angeles Rams relocated to St. Louis in 1995. Anaheim city leaders are in talks with the NFL to bring a Los Angeles-area franchise to Orange County, though they are competing with other cities in and around Los Angeles.\nThe Los Angeles Clippers played some home games at The Arrowhead Pond, now known as the Honda Center, from 1994 to 1999, before moving to Staples Center, which they share with the Los Angeles Lakers.\n\nThese communities are outside of city limits in unincorporated county territory.\nOrange County has a history of large planned communities. Nearly 30 percent of the county was created as master planned communities, the most notable being the City of Irvine, Coto de Caza, Anaheim Hills, Tustin Ranch, Tustin Legacy, Ladera Ranch, Talega, Rancho Santa Margarita, and Mission Viejo. Irvine is often referred to as a model master-planned city because its villages of Woodbridge, Northwood, University Park, and Turtle Rock that were laid out by the Irvine Company of the mid-1960s before it was bought by a group of investors that included Donald Bren.\n\nThe population ranking of the following table is based on the 2010 census of Orange County.\n\n† \"county seat\"\n\nDue to Orange County's proximity to Los Angeles, many film and media celebrities have moved or bought second homes in the county. Actor John Wayne, who lived in Newport Beach, is the namesake for Orange County's John Wayne Airport. Others include Holocaust and World War II survivor, Christian author and lecturer Cornelia ten Boom. Orange County has also produced many homegrown celebrities, including golfer Tiger Woods, a number of professional ballplayers, including retired slugger Mark McGwire and pitcher Walter Johnson, WWE Wrestlers Chavo Guerrero Jr. and Samoa Joe, actors Kevin Costner and John Stamos, actor and radio personality R.J. Adams a.k.a. Bob Shannon, comedian/actors Steve Martin and Will Ferrell, actresses Michelle Pfeiffer and Diane Keaton, and singers Jackson Browne, Chester Bennington, Jennifer Warnes, Bonnie Raitt, Gwen Stefani, Jeff Buckley, Marc Cherry, Drake Bell, K-pop singer Sunny Lee of SNSD, and Major League Ballhawk John Witt.\n\nThe county's most famous resident was perhaps Richard Nixon, the 37th President of the United States, who was born in Yorba Linda and lived in San Clemente for several years following his resignation. His presidential library is in Yorba Linda.\n\nOrange County was also home to The Righteous Brothers: Bill Medley of Santa Ana, and Bobby Hatfield of Anaheim. The Santa Ana High School auditorium now bears Medley's name. Another less well-known sports figure from a previous era was Clifford C. Cravath, for many years judge of the Laguna Beach Municipal Court. Known as \"Gavvy\" Cravath as a professional baseball player from 1910 to 1920, he was the major league home run king prior to Babe Ruth's emergence as a slugger.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11674760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11674760", "title": "Person in need of supervision", "text": "Person in need of supervision\n\nA person in need of supervision (PINS) is a term frequently used by social services agencies in the United States to describe a juvenile who is not currently in the household of a parent or legal guardian, or is currently not under their control as evidenced by the person's status offense, who is not an emancipated minor. The term is often abbreviated PINS. Usually, a person in need of supervision is a runaway, an orphan, a truant, or an unruly child.\n\nThe term is most commonly used as a term of art in New York in the United States, where the term is used in a key statute governing the treatment of juveniles. Hawaii also has the term in its statutes. Virginia has a similar designation which it calls \"child in need of supervision\" (CHINS), not to be confused with the broader designation \"child in need of services\" (also abbreviated \"CHINS\"), the \"services\" in which may be disciplinary/supervisory (due to the child's misbehavior) or assistive (due to parental neglect or abuse).\n"}
{"id": "53644716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53644716", "title": "Red Sea Insurance Co Ltd v Bouygues SA", "text": "Red Sea Insurance Co Ltd v Bouygues SA\n\nRed Sea Insurance Co Ltd v Bouygues SA [1995] 1 AC 190 is a judicial decision of the Privy Council relating to choice of law in tort. The case was an appeal from the decision of the Court of Appeal of Hong Kong, but as the case was decided in Hong Kong pursuant to the English Law Ordinance, section 3(1), it is also taken to be an authoritative statement of English law.\n\nBouygues SA together with nine other co-plaintiffs made a claim under a policy of insurance against Red Sea Insurance Co Ltd. Red Sea Insurance was an insurance company incorporated in Hong Kong, but with its head office located in Saudi Arabia. In its counterclaim Red Sea Insurance alleged that one of the co-plaintiffs, PCG, negligently supplied faulty pre-cast concrete building units, and that if it was liable at all, Red Sea Insurance would be subrogated to the claims of the other co-plaintiffs against PCG. PCG applied to strike out that counterclaim.\n\nRed Sea then amended its pleading and claimed that the proper law governing the relations between Red Sea and PCG was the law of Saudi Arabia, and that under Saudi Arabian law, Red Sea had a direct right of action against PCG. \n\nThose claims failed at first instance and in the Court of Appeal because:\n\nRed Sea appealed to the Privy Council.\n\nLord Slynn of Hadley gave the decision of the board.\n\nAfter reviewing the relevant authorities Lord Slynn held that the \"flexible exception\" to the double actionability requirement which had been created by the House of Lords in \"Boys v Chaplin\" [1971] AC 356 could apply in favour of not only the forum (the \"lex fori\") but also in favour of the law of the place where the tort occurred (the \"lex loci delicti commissi\"). In this case the facts were overwhelmingly connected with Saudi Arabia, and so Saudi Arabian law only should be applied to the relevant issue.\n\nLord Slynn further held that although \"Boys v Chaplin\" was predicated on a single issue (heads of loss) being subject to the flexible exception, it was possible that an entire claim could be subject to the exception. He stated: \"The present appeal is not based on an isolated issue (as was the case in \"Boys v Chaplin\"). The contention put forward is that the whole case be decided according to the lex loci delictii. Although the cases may be rare where the exception should be applied the whole case, their Lordships do not consider that to apply the exception to the whole case is in principle necessarily excluded. In their Lordship's view the exception is not limited to specific isolated issues but may apply to the whole claim\".\n\nIn England the decision was followed by the Court of Appeal in \"Pearce v Ove Arup Partnership Ltd\" [2000] Ch 403, it has now largely been superseded by the Private International Law (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1995. However, it remains good law in other common law jurisdictions, and in England for claims relating to defamation.\n\nIn Canada, the double actionability rule itself was reversed by the Supreme Court of Canada in \"Tolofson v Jensen\" [1994] 3 SCR 1022, although the Supreme Court retained the concept of a flexible exception.\n\nSimilarly, in Australia the double actionability rule was abrogated by the High Court of Australia in \"John Pfieffer Pty Ltd v Rogerson\" (2000) 203 CLR 503. But similarly, a broad public policy style flexible exception similar to that in \"Red Sea Insurance v Bouygues SA\" was retained.\n"}
{"id": "7002201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7002201", "title": "Royal Commission on the Constitution (United Kingdom)", "text": "Royal Commission on the Constitution (United Kingdom)\n\nThe Royal Commission on the Constitution, also referred to as the Kilbrandon Commission (initially the Crowther Commission) or Kilbrandon Report, was a long-running royal commission set up by Harold Wilson's Labour government to examine the structures of the constitution of the United Kingdom and the British Islands and the government of its constituent countries, and to consider whether any changes should be made to those structures. It was started under Lord Crowther on 15 April 1969, Lord Kilbrandon took over in 1972, and it finally reported on 31 October 1973.\n\nVarious models of devolution, federalism and confederalism were considered, as well as the prospect of the division of the UK into separate sovereign states. Northern Ireland, the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man were dealt with separately from the core issue of Scotland and Wales.\n\nA total of 16 volumes of evidence and 10 research papers were published between 1969 and 1973. The final report was delivered to Edward Heath's Conservative Government, which had come to power at the general election in June 1970. The report rejected the options of independence or federalism, in favour of devolved, directly elected Scottish and Welsh assemblies. Two members of the Commission, Lord Crowther-Hunt and Professor Alan Peacock, did not sign the report, disagreeing with the interpretation of the terms of reference and the conclusions. Their views were published in a separate Memorandum of Dissent.\n\nThe royal commission was set up in response to growing demands for home rule or full independence for Wales and Scotland, which came into public focus after the ground-breaking by-election wins of Plaid Cymru's Gwynfor Evans at the Carmarthen by-election, 1966, and the Scottish National Party's Winnie Ewing in Hamilton in 1967.\n\nThe Commission's terms of reference were:\n\nChairmen:\n\nMembers:\nThe commission was unable to reach unanimous agreement, with the final report including a number of options supported by different members. Two commissioners did not sign the report, producing instead a \"memorandum of dissent\".\n\nEight members favoured a devolved legislature for Scotland. Executive power would be exercised by ministers appointed by the Crown from members of a directly elected assembly. Areas of responsibility to be transferred to the devolved body would be some of those already under the supervision of the Secretary of State for Scotland and the Lord Advocate. These included:\n\nResponsibility for agriculture, fisheries and food would be divided between the Assembly and the United Kingdom government, while the latter would retain control of electricity supply.\n\nWith the establishment of the devolved government, it was proposed that the number of MPs elected to Westminster from Scottish constituencies would be reduced from 71 to about 51.\n\nThe assembly was to be a single chamber body of about 100 members, elected under the single transferable vote system of proportional representation, with multi-member constituencies. The Commission did not propose to give the assembly a name, feeling this was a matter for the Scottish people, although the term \"convention\" had been suggested. The determination of the number of seats and boundaries was to be reserved to the United Kingdom parliament.\n\nThe new constitutional arrangements would not require the appointment of a governor, while the title \"Scottish Premier\" was suggested for the head of the executive.\n\nThe office of Secretary of State for Scotland would be abolished, although a cabinet minister would continue to have special responsibility in representing Scotland as well as having other duties.\n\nSix commissioners favoured legislative devolution for Wales. This would be similar to the scheme envisaged for Scotland, but with less responsibility in legal affairs, reflecting that Scotland had a discrete legal system separate from England and Wales.\n\nAs in Scotland, a 100-member unicameral assembly was proposed, elected by proportional representation. A title suggested to the commission for the body was \"Senate\". Similarly, the head of the executive might be titled \"Welsh Premier\", and the office of Secretary of State for Wales would be abolished. The number of Westminster MPs elected by Welsh constituencies would be reduced from 36 to about 31.\n\nThe signatories to the main report were unanimous in their opposition of legislative devolution to England as a whole, or to any English region. There were however proposals for some powers being devolved to regional level:\n\nIn each case the regions to be used were to be those already established for economic planning, with boundaries adjusted to reflect the changes made by the Local Government Act 1972, although names were not suggested:\n\nThe Commission recognised that \"a very small minority\" in Cornwall existed that claimed a separate national identity for the Cornish people, and who wished to have separate arrangements for their government. They however felt that \"despite its individual character and strong sense of regional identity, there is no evidence that its people have a wish to see it separated for the purposes of government from the rest of England\". However they recognised that \"the people of Cornwall regard their part of the United Kingdom as not just another English county\" and accordingly they recommended that the designation \"Duchy of Cornwall\" be used on all appropriate occasions to emphasise the \"special relationship and the territorial integrity of Cornwall\".\n\nThe Commission did not make any recommendations on devolution in Northern Ireland, for which the Northern Ireland Constitution Act 1973 had made provision. However, the report did recommend that the number of Westminster MPs from the province be increased in line with the rest of the UK, from 12 to about 17.\n\nThe Commission did not propose to make any changes in the relationship between the United Kingdom, the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man. They rejected a suggestion that responsibilities for external affairs be divided between the UK and island governments, but supported a Home Office proposal that a more formal process of consultation be carried out in future over the application of international agreements in the islands.\n\nLord Crowther-Hunt and Professor Peacock did not sign the report, producing a separate series of proposals in a minority memorandum. The main differences between the document and the main report were:\n\nThere would be seven elected regional assemblies, one for Scotland, one for Wales and five Regional Assemblies in England. They would have considerably greater powers than proposed in the majority report, taking over much of the machinery of central government within their area, and each having their own civil service. They would also replace ad hoc authorities such as regional health authorities and water authorities, which were due to be introduced in reorganisation of the National Health Service and water industry. They would also have supervisory powers over gas and electricity boards. They would also be able to make policy through strategic plans for the physical, social and economic development of their regions.\n\nA Minister for the Regions would hold a cabinet seat.\n\nThe memorandum also suggested changes in the function of the United Kingdom House of Commons. Members of parliament were to form \"functional committees\" corresponding to central government departments. Each committee was to have a supporting staff and would consider the implications of both United Kingdom and European legislation, as well as having policy-making powers. To reflect their greater responsibilities, MPs would be paid full-time professional salaries.\n\nThere was mixed reaction to the Commission's report:\n\nFollowing a change of government at the February 1974 election, the new Labour administration published a white paper \"\" based on the final report in September 1974. The white paper led directly to the unsuccessful Scotland and Wales Bill, which was withdrawn in February 1977. Two separate pieces of legislation were passed in the following year: the Scotland Act 1978 and the Wales Act 1978. The provisions of the Acts would not come into force unless approved by referendums, and accordingly Scottish and Welsh devolution referendums were held on 1 March 1979. The Welsh assembly was rejected by a majority of voters, while Scottish devolution was supported by 51.6% of those voting, or 32.9% of those on the electoral register. An amendment to the Scotland Act, introduced by government backbencher George Cunningham, had specified that it must have the support of 40% of the entire electorate, and the referendum was lost. The results of the referendums led to the repeal of the respective Acts in March 1979. A vote of no confidence was subsequently lost by the government on 28 March when the Scottish National Party voted with the Conservatives, Liberals and Ulster Unionist Party, leading to the general election of 1979 and the beginning of 18 years of Conservative rule.\n\nScottish and Welsh devolution was finally implemented under the next Labour government, elected in 1997, by the Scotland Act 1998 and the Government of Wales Act 1998.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9687062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9687062", "title": "Seasteading", "text": "Seasteading\n\nSeasteading is the concept of creating permanent dwellings at sea, called seasteads, outside the territory claimed by any government. The term is a combination of the words \"sea\" and \"homesteading\". No one has yet created a structure on the high seas that has been recognized as a sovereign state.\n\nSeasteaders say such autonomous floating cities would foster faster development of techniques \"to feed the hungry, cure the sick, clean the atmosphere and enrich the poor\". Some critics fear seasteads are designed more as a refuge for the wealthy to avoid taxes or other problems.\n\nProposed structures have included modified cruise ships, refitted oil platforms, decommissioned anti-aircraft platforms, and custom-built floating islands. \n\nAs an intermediate step, the Seasteading Institute has promoted cooperation with an existing nation on prototype floating islands with legal semi-autonomy within the nation's protected territorial waters. On January 13, 2017, the Seasteading Institute signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with French Polynesia to create the first semi-autonomous \"seazone\" for a prototype, but as of 2018 its status was uncertain.\n\nMany architects and firms have created designs for floating cities, including Vincent Callebaut, Paolo Soleri and companies such as Shimizu and E. Kevin Schopfer.\n\nL. Ron Hubbard, founder of the Church of Scientology, and his executive leadership became a maritime-based community named the Sea Organization (Sea Org). Beginning in 1967 with a complement of four ships, the Sea Org spent most of its existence on the high seas, visiting ports around the world for refueling and resupply. In 1975 much of these operations were shifted to land-based locations.\n\nMarshall Savage discussed building tethered artificial islands in his 1992 book , with several color plates illustrating his ideas.\n\nOther historical predecessors and inspirations for seasteading include:\nAt least two people independently coined the term seasteading: Ken Neumeyer in his book \"Sailing the Farm\" (1981) and Wayne Gramlich in his article \"Seasteading – Homesteading on the High Seas\" (1998).\n\nGramlich’s essay attracted the attention of Patri Friedman. The two began working together and posted their first collaborative book online in 2001. Their book explored many aspects of seasteading from waste disposal to flags of convenience. This collaboration led to the creation of the non-profit The Seasteading Institute (TSI) in 2008.\n\nOn April 15, 2008, Wayne Gramlich and Patri Friedman founded the 501(c)(3) non-profit The Seasteading Institute (TSI), an organization formed to facilitate the establishment of autonomous, mobile communities on seaborne platforms operating in international waters. \n\nFriedman and Gramlich noted that according to the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, a country's Exclusive Economic Zone extends from shore. Beyond that boundary lie the high seas, which are not subject to the laws of any sovereign state other than the flag under which a ship sails. They proposed that a seastead could take advantage of the absence of laws and regulations outside the sovereignty of nations to experiment with new governance systems, and allow the citizens of existing governments to exit more easily.\n\n\"When seasteading becomes a viable alternative, switching from one government to another would be a matter of sailing to the other without even leaving your house,\" said Patri Friedman at the first annual Seasteading conference.\n\nThe Seasteading Institute (TSI) focused on three areas: building a community, doing research, and building the first seastead in the San Francisco Bay. \n\nThe project picked up mainstream exposure after having been brought to the attention of PayPal cofounder Peter Thiel. Thiel donated $500,000 in initial seed capital to start The Seasteading Institute, and has contributed $1.7 million in total to date. He also spoke out on behalf of its viability in his essay \"The Education of a Libertarian\".\n\nAs a result of Thiel's backing, TSI received widespread media attention from a variety of sources including \"The Economist\" Business Insider, and BBC.\n\nIn 2008, Friedman and Gramlich had hoped to float the first prototype seastead in the San Francisco Bay by 2010 Plans were to launch a seastead by 2014, and TSI projected that the seasteading population would exceed 150 individuals in 2015. TSI did not meet these targets.\n\nIn January 2009, the Seasteading Institute patented a design for a 200-person resort seastead, ClubStead, about a city block in size, produced by consultancy firm Marine Innovation & Technology. The ClubStead design marked the first major engineering analysis in the seasteading movement.\n\nIn the spring of 2013, TSI launched The Floating City Project. The project proposed to locate a floating city within the territorial waters of an existing nation, rather than the open ocean. TSI claimed that doing so would have several advantages:\nIn October 2013, the Institute raised $27,082 from 291 funders in a crowdfunding campaign TSI used the funds to hire the Dutch marine engineering firm DeltaSync to write an engineering study for The Floating City Project.\n\nIn September 2016 the Seasteading Institute met with officials in French Polynesia to discuss building a prototype seastead in a sheltered lagoon. Teva Rohfristch, Minister for Economic Recovery was the first to invite The Seasteading Institute to meet with government officials.The meeting was arranged by Former Minister of Tourism, Marc Collins.\n\nOn January 13, 2017, French Polynesia Minister of Housing, Jean-Christophe Bouissou signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with TSI to create the first semi-autonomous \"seazone\". TSI spun off a for-profit company called \"Blue Frontiers\", which will build and operate a prototype seastead in the zone. The prototype will be based on a design by marine engineering firm Blue 21.\n\nOn March 3, 2018, a mayor from French Polynesia said the agreement was \"not a legal document\" and had expired at the end of 2017 in response to a challenger trying to make it an issue for the May, 2018 elections. \n\nIn May, 2018 Blue Frontiers began raising funds through a cryptographic token (Varyon) to prepare for building in the Sea Zone when the French Polynesian government passes the SeaZone act later in the year. \n\nCruise ships are a proven technology, and address most of the challenges of living at sea for extended periods of time. However, they're typically optimized for travel and short-term stay, not for permanent residence in a single location.\n\nExamples:\n\nPlatform designs based on spar buoys, similar to oil platforms. In this design, the platforms rest on spars in the shape of floating dumbbells, with the living area high above sea level. Building on spars in this fashion reduces the influence of wave action on the structure.\n\nExamples:\n\nThere are numerous seastead designs based around interlocking modules made of reinforced concrete. Reinforced cement is used for floating docks, oil platforms, dams, and other marine structures.\n\nExamples: \n\nA single, monolithic structure that is not intended to be expanded or connected to other modules.\n\nExamples: \n\nThe SeaOrbiter is an oceangoing research vessel designed to give scientists and others a residential yet mobile research station. The station will have laboratories, workshops, living quarters and a pressurized deck to support divers and submarines. It is headed by French architect Jacques Rougerie, oceanographer Jacques Piccard and astronaut Jean-Loup Chretien. The cost is expected to be around $52.7 million.\n\nBlueseed was a company aiming to float a ship near Silicon Valley to serve as a visa-free startup community and entrepreneurial incubator. Blueseed founders Max Marty and Dario Mutabdzija met when both were employees of The Seasteading Institute. The project planned to offer living and office space, high-speed Internet connectivity, and regular ferry service to the mainland but as of 2014 the project is \"on hold\".\n\nCriticisms have been leveled at both the practicality and desirability of seasteading. These can be broken down into \"governmental\", \"logistical\", and \"societal\" categories.\n\nCritics believe that creating governance structures from scratch is a lot harder than it seems. Also, seasteads would still be at risk of political interference from nation states.\n\nOn a logistical level, seasteads could be too remote and uncomfortable (without access to culture, restaurants, shopping) to be attractive to potential residents. Building seasteads to withstand the rigors of the open ocean may prove uneconomical.\n\nSeastead structures may blight ocean views, their industry or farming may deplete their environments, and their waste may pollute surrounding waters. Some critics believe that seasteads will exploit both residents and the nearby population. Others fear that seasteads will mainly allow wealthy individuals to escape taxes, or to harm mainstream society by ignoring other financial, environmental, and labor regulations.\n\nThe Seasteading Institute held its first conference in Burlingame, California, October 10, 2008. 45 people from 9 countries attended.\nThe second Seasteading conference was significantly larger, and held in San Francisco, California, September 28–30, 2009.\nThe third Seasteading conference took place on May 31 - June 2, 2012.\n\nSeasteading has been imagined many times in fictional works. \n\n"}
{"id": "8380866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8380866", "title": "Shopkeeper's privilege", "text": "Shopkeeper's privilege\n\nShopkeeper's privilege is a law recognized in some parts of the United States under which a shopkeeper is allowed to detain a suspected shoplifter on store property for a reasonable period of time, so long as the shopkeeper has cause to believe that the person detained in fact committed, or attempted to commit, theft of store property.\n\nThe privilege to detain, although recognized in many jurisdictions, is not as broad as a police officer's privilege to arrest. If the shopkeeper exceeds the bounds of this privilege and makes an arrest, the lawfulness of his action will be determined by the jurisdiction's rules governing arrest by a private citizen. The shopkeeper's privilege is for the purpose of investigation only; if, after reasonable detention and investigation, the shopkeeper mistakenly concludes that the suspect is guilty and has him arrested, the shopkeeper may becomes liable for these acts just as he would have been had he committed them without undertaking a prior detention and investigation. Statutes in many states have modified and in some cases broadened the common law privilege, for example, by expressly permitting detention of the suspect until the police arrive. In other cases, case precedent has provided shopkeepers with similar tools. The practical effect of these extensions is to give the shopkeeper the same privilege as a police officer to make an arrest on reasonable grounds.\n\nThis privilege has been justified by the practical need for some degree of protection for shopkeepers in their dealings with suspected shoplifters. Absent such privilege, a shopkeeper would be faced with the dilemma of either allowing suspects to leave without challenge or acting upon his suspicion and risking a false arrest.\n\nThe privilege for the most part is to be able to return the stolen goods by determining ownership. The shopkeeper may not force a confession. The shopkeeper's privilege does not include the power of search. Some courts, however, have expanded this original common law privilege to also include the detention of criminal trespassers: \"[t]he detention and removal of a criminal trespasser is an essential power of any shopkeeper or other property owner[.]\"\n\nIn seeking to avail themself of the shopkeeper's privilege, the proprietor or agent thereof must ensure:\n\n\nIn cases where a shopkeeper fails to satisfy the aforementioned requisite conditions, he or she loses the privilege and may face liability under local criminal statutes and civil torts. However, so long as these conditions are established, the shopkeeper is immune from liability for false arrest, battery, etc., even when it is discovered after the investigation that the person detained was innocent of any wrongdoing.\n\nThe common law shopkeeper's privilege has been superseded in most states by so-called shoplifting statutes, or merchant's statutes, that allow merchants, their employees, and their agents to detain suspected shoplifters for: the investigation of merchandise or property ownership, the recovery of unpurchased merchandise or property, and the summoning of a police officer.\n\n"}
{"id": "168850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=168850", "title": "Stephen Breyer", "text": "Stephen Breyer\n\nStephen Gerald Breyer (; born August 15, 1938) is an American lawyer, professor, and jurist serving as an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States since 1994. Appointed by President Bill Clinton, Breyer is generally associated with the more liberal side of the Court.\n\nAfter a clerkship with Supreme Court Associate Justice Arthur Goldberg in 1964, Breyer became well known as a law professor and lecturer at Harvard Law School, starting in 1967. There he specialized in administrative law, writing a number of influential textbooks that remain in use today. He held other prominent positions before being nominated for the Supreme Court, including special assistant to the United States Assistant Attorney General for Antitrust, assistant special prosecutor on the Watergate Special Prosecution Force in 1973, and serving on the First Circuit Court of Appeals from 1980 to 1994.\n\nIn his 2005 book \"Active Liberty\", Breyer made his first attempt to systematically lay out his views on legal theory, arguing that the judiciary should seek to resolve issues in a manner that encourages popular participation in governmental decisions.\n\nBreyer was born in San Francisco, California, the son of Anne A. (née Roberts) and Irving Gerald Breyer, and raised in a middle-class Jewish family. Irving Breyer was legal counsel for the San Francisco Board of Education. Both Breyer and his younger brother, Charles, who is a federal district judge, are Eagle Scouts of San Francisco's Troop 14. Breyer's paternal great-grandfather emigrated from Romania to the United States, settling in Cleveland, where Breyer's grandfather was born. In 1955, Breyer graduated from Lowell High School. At Lowell, he was a member of the Lowell Forensic Society and debated regularly in high school tournaments, including against future California governor Jerry Brown and future Harvard Law School professor Laurence Tribe.\n\nBreyer received a Bachelor of Arts degree in Philosophy from Stanford University, a Bachelor of Arts from Magdalen College, Oxford in PPE as a Marshall Scholar, and a Bachelor of Laws from Harvard Law School. He is also fluent in French.\n\nIn 1967, he married the Joanna Freda Hare, a psychologist and member of the British aristocracy, as the youngest daughter of John Hare, 1st Viscount Blakenham. The Breyers have three adult children: Chloe, an Episcopal priest and author of \"The Close\"; Nell, and Michael.\n\nBreyer served as a law clerk to Associate Justice Arthur Goldberg during the 1964 term (list), and served briefly as a fact-checker for the Warren Commission. He was a special assistant to the United States Assistant Attorney General for Antitrust from 1965 to 1967 and an assistant special prosecutor on the Watergate Special Prosecution Force in 1973. Breyer was a special counsel to the U.S. Senate Committee on the Judiciary from 1974 to 1975 and served as chief counsel of the committee from 1979 to 1980. He worked closely with the chairman of the committee, Senator Edward M. Kennedy, to pass the Airline Deregulation Act that closed the Civil Aeronautics Board.\n\nBreyer was a lecturer, assistant professor, and law professor at Harvard Law School starting in 1967. He taught there until 1994, also serving as a professor at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government from 1977 to 1980. At Harvard, Breyer was known as a leading expert on administrative law. While there, he wrote two highly influential books on deregulation: \"Breaking the Vicious Circle: Toward Effective Risk Regulation\" and \"Regulation and Its Reform\". In 1970, Breyer wrote \"The Uneasy Case for Copyright\", one of the most widely cited skeptical examinations of copyright. Breyer was a visiting professor at the College of Law in Sydney, Australia, the University of Rome, and the Tulane University Law School.\n\nFrom 1980 to 1994, Breyer was a judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit; he was the court's Chief Judge from 1990 to 1994. In the last days of President Jimmy Carter's administration, on November 13, 1980, Carter nominated Breyer to the First Circuit, to a new seat established by 92 Stat. 1629, and the United States Senate confirmed him on December 9, 1980, by an 80–10 vote. He received his commission on December 10, 1980. He served as Chief Judge from 1990 to 1994. He served as a member of the Judicial Conference of the United States between 1990 and 1994 and the United States Sentencing Commission between 1985 and 1989. On the sentencing commission, Breyer played a key role in reforming federal criminal sentencing procedures, producing the Federal Sentencing Guidelines, which were formulated to increase uniformity in sentencing. His service on the First Circuit terminated on August 2, 1994, due to his elevation to the Supreme Court.\n\nIn 1993, President Bill Clinton considered him for the seat vacated by Byron White that ultimately went to Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg. Breyer's appointment came shortly thereafter, however, following the retirement of Harry Blackmun in 1994, when Clinton nominated Breyer as an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court on May 17, 1994. Breyer was confirmed by the Senate on July 29, 1994, by an 87 to 9 vote, and received his commission on August 3. He was the second-longest-serving junior justice in the history of the Court, close to surpassing the record set by Justice Joseph Story of 4,228 days (from February 3, 1812, to September 1, 1823); Breyer fell 29 days short of tying this record, which he would have reached on March 1, 2006, had Justice Samuel Alito not joined the Court on January 31, 2006.\n\nBreyer's pragmatic approach to the law \"will tend to make the law more sensible\"; according to Cass Sunstein, Breyer's \"attack on originalism is powerful and convincing\". In 2006, Breyer said that in assessing a law's constitutionality, while some of his colleagues \"emphasize language, a more literal reading of the [Constitution's] text, history and tradition\", he looks more closely to the \"purpose and consequences\".\n\nBreyer has consistently voted in favor of abortion rights, one of the most controversial areas of the Supreme Court's docket. He has also defended the Court's use of foreign law and international law as persuasive (but not binding) authority in its decisions. Breyer is also recognized to be deferential to the interests of law enforcement and to legislative judgments in the Court's First Amendment rulings. He has demonstrated a consistent pattern of deference to Congress, voting to overturn congressional legislation at a lower rate than any other Justice since 1994.\n\nBreyer's extensive experience in administrative law is accompanied by his staunch defense of the Federal Sentencing Guidelines. Breyer rejects the strict interpretation of the Sixth Amendment espoused by Justice Scalia that all facts necessary to criminal punishment must be submitted to a jury and proved beyond a reasonable doubt. In many other areas on the Court, too, Breyer's pragmatism was considered the intellectual counterweight to Scalia's textualist philosophy.\n\nIn describing his interpretive philosophy, Breyer has sometimes noted his use of six interpretive tools: text, history, tradition, precedent, the purpose of a statute, and the consequences of competing interpretations. He has noted that only the last two differentiate him from textualists such as Scalia. Breyer argues that these sources are necessary, however, and in the former case (purpose), can in fact provide greater objectivity in legal interpretation than looking merely at what is often ambiguous statutory text. With the latter (consequences), Breyer argues that considering the impact of legal interpretations is a further way of ensuring consistency with a law's intended purpose.\n\nBreyer expounded his judicial philosophy in 2005 in \"Active Liberty: Interpreting Our Democratic Constitution\". In it, Breyer urges judges to interpret legal provisions (of the Constitution or of statutes) in light of the purpose of the text and how well the consequences of specific rulings fit those purposes. The book is considered a response to the 1997 book \"A Matter of Interpretation\", in which Antonin Scalia emphasized adherence to the original meaning of the text alone.\n\nIn \"Active Liberty\", Breyer argues that the Framers of the Constitution sought to establish a democratic government involving the maximum liberty for its citizens. Breyer refers to Isaiah Berlin’s \"Two Concepts of Liberty\". The first Berlinian concept, being what most people understand by liberty, is \"freedom from government coercion\". Berlin termed this \"negative liberty\" and warned against its diminution; Breyer calls this \"modern liberty\". The second Berlinian concept – \"positive liberty\" – is the \"freedom to participate in the government\". In Breyer's terminology, this is the \"active liberty\" the judge should champion. Having established what \"active liberty\" is, and positing the primary importance (to the Framers) of this concept over the competing idea of \"negative liberty\", Breyer makes a predominantly utilitarian case for rulings that give effect to the democratic intentions of the Constitution.\n\nThe book's historical premises and practical prescriptions have been challenged. For example, according to Peter Berkowitz, the reason that \"[t]he primarily democratic nature of the Constitution's governmental structure has not always seemed obvious\", as Breyer puts it, is \"because it's not true, at least in Breyer's sense, that the Constitution elevates active liberty above modern [negative] liberty\". Breyer's position \"demonstrates not fidelity to the Constitution\", Berkowitz argues, \"but rather a determination to rewrite the Constitution's priorities\". Berkowitz suggests that Breyer is also inconsistent in failing to apply this standard to the issue of abortion, instead preferring decisions \"that protect women's modern liberty, which remove controversial issues from democratic discourse\". Failing to answer the textualist charge that the Living Documentarian judge is a law unto himself, Berkowitz argues that \"Active Liberty\" \"suggests that when necessary, instead of choosing the consequence that serves what he regards as the Constitution’s leading purpose, Breyer will determine the Constitution’s leading purpose on the basis of the consequence that he prefers to vindicate\".\n\nAgainst the last charge, Cass Sunstein has defended Breyer, noting that of the nine justices on the Rehnquist Court, Breyer had the highest percentage of votes to uphold acts of Congress and also to defer to the decision of the executive branch. However, according to Jeffrey Toobin in \"The New Yorker\", \"Breyer concedes that a judicial approach based on 'active liberty' will not yield solutions to every constitutional debate,\" and that, in Breyer's words, \"respecting the democratic process does not mean you abdicate your role of enforcing the limits in the Constitution, whether in the Bill of Rights or in separation of powers.\"\n\nTo this point, and from a discussion at the New York Historical Society in March 2006, Breyer has noted that \"democratic means\" did not bring about an end to slavery, or the concept of \"one man, one vote\", which allowed corrupt and discriminatory (but democratically inspired) state laws to be overturned in favor of civil rights.\n\nIn 2010, Breyer published a second book, \"Making Our Democracy Work: A Judge's View\". There, Breyer argued that judges have six tools they can use to determine a legal provision's proper meaning: (1) its text; (2) its historical context; (3) precedent; (4) tradition; (5) its purpose; and (6) the consequences of potential interpretations. Textualists, like Scalia, only feel comfortable using the first four of these tools; while pragmatists, like Breyer, believe that \"purpose\" and \"consequences\" are \"particularly\" important interpretative tools. \n\nBreyer cites several watershed moments in Supreme Court history to show why the consequences of a particular ruling should always be in a judge's mind. He notes that President Jackson ignored the Court's ruling in \"Worcester v. Georgia\", which led to the Trail of Tears and severely weakened the Court's authority. He also cites the \"Dred Scott\" decision, an important precursor to the American Civil War. When the Court ignores the consequences of its decisions, Breyer argues, it can lead to devastating and destabilizing outcomes. \n\nIn 2015, Breyer released a third book, \"The Court and the World: American Law and the New Global Realities\", examining the interplay between U.S. and international law and how the realities of a globalized world need to be considered in U.S. cases.\n\nIn an interview on \"Fox News Sunday\" on December 12, 2010, Breyer said that based on the values and the historical record, the Founding Fathers of the United States never intended guns to go unregulated and that history supports his and the other dissenters' views in \"District of Columbia v. Heller\". He summarized:\nIn the wake of the controversy over Justice Samuel Alito's reaction to President Barack Obama's criticism of the Court's \"Citizens United v. FEC\" ruling in his 2010 State of the Union Address, Breyer said he would continue to attend the address:\n\nIn 2007, Breyer was honored with the Distinguished Eagle Scout Award by the Boy Scouts of America.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4150518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4150518", "title": "Sutherland v United Kingdom", "text": "Sutherland v United Kingdom\n\nSutherland v United Kingdom originated as a complaint by Mr Euan Sutherland to the European Commission of Human Rights that the fixing of the minimum age for lawful homosexual activities at 18 rather than 16, as for heterosexual activities, violated his right to respect for private life under Article 8 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The complaint was first filed on 8 June 1994 and ultimately led to the equalisation of the age of consent for homosexual and heterosexual acts.\n\nThe Applicant, Mr Euan Sutherland was born in 1977, and after realising he was homosexual, had his first sexual encounter with another homosexual man at the age of 16. Although the Applicant was never prosecuted, there was a justified fear that he may be since, in 1990, 455 prosecutions had given rise to 342 convictions and, in 1991, 213 prosecutions gave rise to 169 convictions. This fear led the Applicant to bring the complaint to the Commission.\n\nUnder section 12(1) of the Sexual Offences Act 1956 it was an offence for a person to commit buggery with another person and under section 13 it was an offence for a man to commit an act of \"gross indecency\" with another man, whether in public or private. The Sexual Offences Act 1967 stated that no offence is committed if both parties are aged 21 or over and consented to the acts.\n\nThe Commission considered the application and following a hearing published its findings on 1 July 1997. The published findings show that the Commission considered a very wide range of opinions and factors, including the rationale for a higher age of consent for homosexual acts, opinions from medical staff as to what a suitable age limit is and whether a different age for heterosexual and homosexual acts is discriminatory.\n\nThe commission found that the existence of different age limits was discriminatory and that no valid grounds existed to justify that discrimination. They therefore found that the age of consent for homosexual acts should be lowered to 16. In arriving at their conclusion the commission cited their reasoning in the previous cases, \"Dudgeon v United Kingdom\" and \"Norris v. Ireland\".\n\nIn response to the commission's findings the Applicant and the UK Government, on 13 October 1997, submitted an agreement that a Bill would be proposed to Parliament the summer of 1998 to reduce the age of consent for homosexual acts to 16. They agreed that once the legislation was passed the Government would pay reasonable costs and the parties would apply to the Court for approval of a friendly settlement.\n\nThe Government brought the \"Crime and Disorder Bill\" to Parliament in June 1998 which contained a provision to reduce the age of consent for homosexual acts to 16. Those provisions were accepted by the House of Commons, but were rejected by the House of Lords. The Sexual Offences (Amendment) Bill was introduced to the House of Commons on 16 December 1998 and the relevant provisions were again endorsed by that house, but were later rejected by the House of Lords.\n\nThe provisions were then reintroduced for a third time under the Parliament Act 1911 such they could pass into force after a delay of one year.\n\nOn 28 January 2000, the Bill was re-introduced before the House of Commons and was passed by 263 votes to 102. It was then introduced into the House of Lords on 29 February 2000, where, on 11 April 2000 its Second Reading was not opposed, but some Lords stated they would propose amendments. As a result, the Bill was adopted under the Parliament Act at the end of the 2000 Parliamentary year and the Sexual Offences (Amendment) Act 2000 received Royal Assent on 30 November 2000 and was brought into force on 8 January 2001.\n\nFollowing a series of requests for extensions, the Court received notification from the Government on 23 January 2001 that the age of consent had been equalised and then on 1 February 2001 that the Government had paid the Applicant's costs. Accordingly, on 27 March 2001, the case was struck out of the Court's lists.\n\n"}
{"id": "29207724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29207724", "title": "The British Government and Jihad", "text": "The British Government and Jihad\n\nThe British Government and Jihad (Urdu:\"Government Angrezi Aur Jihad\") is a book written in 1900 by Mirza Ghulam Ahmad, the founder of the Ahmadiyya movement in Islam. An alternative title is the \"True Meaning of Jihad\". It was published on 22 May 1900\nand was translated into English in 2006, by Islam International Publications.\n\nThe Founder of the Ahmadiyya Muslim Jamaat refers to the Qur'an and the Ahadith (sayings) of the Islamic prophet Muhammad in order to explain the true nature of the Islamic concept of jihad. The author points to the peaceful nature of the Islamic faith and explains that Muhammad resorted to defensive war only after suffering thirteen years of brutal oppression. Divine permission to retaliate was granted for the specific purpose of self-defense, to punish aggressors, and to uphold freedom of conscience. He also argues that the command to fight and retaliate was for that specific condition in which the early Muslims found themselves.\n\nThe author explains why a new messenger of God finds such a great opposition from the pre-existing communities and their religious leaders. He believes it is out of anger and jealousy and the fear that their incomes shall go down if the new message and reformation succeeded. He writes, the new reformer unmasks the deficiencies of their leaders. He claims, for similar reasons the pagans, Christian and Jewish communities and their leaders strongly opposed the Islamic Prophet Muhammad and his community. He writes, “members of this faction are in fact deficient; they possess very little of Divine light and their flaws are totally exposed during a Prophet or Messenger’s time. Their egos give rise to hostility towards God’s Prophets and the righteous, and they selfishly devise plans to injure them.\" (The British Government and Jihad, p. 5)\n\nAhmad believes, the existing Arab communities, “feared that the firm establishment of this religion would in turn sow the seeds of destruction for their faith and nation.” (p. 6) and it was the main reason behind the Muslim community was so strongly opposed and acts of extreme “cruelty and brutality were committed against them”.\n\nAhmad states, \"For a lengthy thirteen year period” the Muslim community suffered extreme oppression but they were instructed, not to retaliate. “the streets ran red with their blood, they did not utter a sound. They were slaughtered like animals but did not protest.” (p. 7). He writes, \"They were trampled underfoot but did not utter a sound.” Ahmad describes the extreme torture which the Muslim community suffered.\n\nAhmad discusses in reference to the verse 22:39 of the Quran, \"Permission [to fight] has been given to those who are being fought, because they were wronged. And indeed, Allah is competent to give them victory\". (p. 7). He believed this was the verse that described the real philosophy of Jihad.\n\nMirza Ghulam Ahmad believed, this Command (Quran 22:39) to retaliate and fight was specific to the time period of the Prophet and the prevailing circumstances only: He writes:\n\nThe author is of the opinion that failure to comprehend the true import of this verse, the early Muslim jurists and scholars committed profound error, and shed the blood of innocent human beings in the name of \"Holy War\" or Jihad. This belief appears unique among the past Muslim jurists.\n\nThe author of the treatise believes that present day religious scholars (\"Maulavis\") are entirely misguided in comprehending the true philosophy of Jihad and they keep preaching such dangerous and blood-spattered doctrines among the ignorant Muslims, which have become the cause of extremism and violence in the society. He writes, \" \"Maulavis\" who persist in propagating these blood-spattered doctrines are in fact responsible for murders committed by ignorant, egotistical people who know nothing of why Islam was forced to fight battles in its early history\".(p. 9)\n\nCommenting upon the then prevalent \"Jihadist\" movements among the Indian Muslims Mirza Ghulam Ahmad holds responsible, besides the \"Maulavis\", the Christian priests, who incited the ignorant masses of the Muslim society, about the misguided concept of Jihad. He writes:\n\nAhmad writes the Christian missionaries have also spread this misguided belief of Jihad by distributing provocative literature in Urdu, Pashto and other languages, to preach the false views that \"Islam was spread by the sword\".(p. 11) This in a way served as a combined testimony of the \"Maulavis\" and Christian Missionaries, to incite people to violent acts and create unrest.\n\nCommenting upon the failure of Act Number XXIII of 1867, in order to check the spread of the\nmilitant ideas of the Frontier’s residents, Ahmad believed it was due to the continued provocative and bitter writings of priests like Imad ud-din Lahiz of Amritsar and some other foul-mouthed priests who greatly damaged goodwill and reconciliation within the country.\n\nAhmad saw a great danger in the combined \"Testimony\" of the Christian Missionaries and \"Maulavis\" who spread a violent view of the Muslim concept of Jihad. At the same time he perceived the dangerous consequences of the naive strategy of the Christian clergy and wrote:\n\nTo suggest a remedy to the British Government in India (1900) Ahmad advised a three-step policy, which will greatly control the poisonous growth of envy and spite, among the various strata of the Indian society:\nAhmad, has admonished the Muslim scholars (\"Maulavis\") to shun hypocrisy. He believed when, \"they meet present day rulers, they bow down as if ready to prostrate; but among their own kind they insist repeatedly that this country is “dar-ul-harb” [the zone of war]. They consider jihad to be obligatory in their hearts, and few of them think otherwise\" (p. 11). He advised the \"Maulavis\" restore true sincerity. He believed if they pondered over the Quran and Ahadith, they may realize the truth.\n\nThe author of the book, Mirza Ghulam Ahmad who claims to be the promised Messiah admonished the Muslims in very strong words, telling this was not the time for Jihad i.e. any kind of armed combat:\n\nHe writes, I as the promised Messiah admonish you:\n\nThe tradition prevalent among Muslims of attacking the people of other religions, which they call jihad, is not the jihad of Divine religious Law [Shari‘ah]. Rather, it is a grievous sin and a violation of the clear instructions of God and His Prophet. It may not be easy for certain Muslims to abandon this custom since it is well established among some tribes. p. 21)\n\nAhmad also addressed the Amir of Kabal to \"convene a discussion on the true nature of jihad. These religious scholars can then educate the public about its errors.\" (p. 22) Thus spreading a more peaceful and better understanding of Jihad among the people of Afghanistan. For Ahmad believed \"it is mostly Afghans who commit these acts and wield the sword with the intent of becoming ghazis, and a sizable majority of them live in his country. These barbaric practices defame Islam and he should do his best to cleanse the Afghan nation of them.\" (p. 23)\n\nProbably Ahmad knew, the Amir of Kabal was not going to pay heed to any of his councils, so he warned the Afghans of bitter consequences of their extremism:\nAt the end of the booklet, Ahmad has put forth his claim to Divine Relation, and that he was the promised Messiah and Mahdi:\n\n\"Did this age not need the avatar [second coming] of Jesus the Messiah? Of course it did.\nCurrently, millions of Muslims are ready to kill other people under the pretense of jihad. Indeed, some are unable to truly love a benevolent government even while living under its\nprotection. They are unable to reach the highest levels of sympathy, and cannot cleanse themselves of affectation and pretence. There was therefore a dire need for the avatar of the\nMessiah. So I am that very promised avatar, who has been sent in the spiritual likeness, personality and temperament of Jesus the Messiah\". (p. 33)\n\nGod has Himself provided the means for fulfilling His prophecy that the message of the Messiah will spread in the world like lightning and will encompass all four corners of the earth like the light from a tower. The railways, telegraph, steamships, excellent postal services, easy modes of travel and tourism and other such means have been established to fulfill the prophecy that the message of the Messiah will illuminate every corner like lightning. (p. 19)\n\n"}
{"id": "52569013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52569013", "title": "Thun vs. Peake", "text": "Thun vs. Peake\n\n\"Thun vs. Peake\" is a United States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims case that dealt with extra-schedular evaluations and the VA Schedule for Rating Disabilities.\n\nThe Veteran appealed his 70 percent evaluation for post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), asserting that he was entitled to an extra-schedular evaluation because his PTSD symptoms prevented him from advancing at his job as a senior systems programmer. He stated that his PTSD symptoms strained relationships with his direct managers that prevented his promotion and less-experienced coworkers were promoted before him and received higher salaries. He argued that there was a significant disparity between his current income (including VA benefits) and income he believed he could have received, but for the severity of his service-connected disability, which was sufficient to trigger extra-schedular consideration.\n\nThe Board, in denying the appeal in June 2005, found that the evidence showed that he veteran did not have marked interference with obtaining or retaining employment and he had maintained steady, full-time, gainful employment since discharge from service and worked at his current job since May 1986.\n\nThe Court articulated a three-step process for determining entitlement to an extra-schedular rating and rejected the veteran’s argument that an inadequacy in the rating schedule can be established solely by showing an asserted gap between his income (including VA benefits) and the income of similarly qualified workers in his field. The Court described such argument as flawed because it was based on a faulty proposition that a schedular rating for a service-connected disability is not adequate unless it compensates for the \"actual individual income\" that is not realized but for that disability.\n\nThe three-step process for determining whether an extra-schedular evaluation is required was outlined by the Court as follows:\nThe Court also found that the Board erred in its reasoning that the veteran’s PTSD did not warrant extra-schedular consideration because he did not establish an inability to obtain or retain employment. However, the error was not prejudicial because the decision not to refer for extra-schedular consideration was not based solely on that finding as the Board also made the threshold determination that the disability picture was not so unusual or exceptional as to render the 70 percent schedular rating as inadequate.\n\nThe Court noted that the very effects of the veteran’s PTSD symptoms that he asserted as having kept him from receiving a promotion, such as impaired judgment and inability to maintain effective working relationship, are criteria described as occupational impairments that are used for evaluating mental disorders under Diagnostic Code 9411, and not earmarks of an exceptional or unusual disability picture with marked interference with employment.\n\nThe BVA Decision was afffirmed by the Court.\n"}
{"id": "50878087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50878087", "title": "Timberworld Ltd v Levin", "text": "Timberworld Ltd v Levin\n\nWhen companies go into liquidation the liquidator is entitled under s 292 of the Companies Act 1993 to clawback property transferred, money paid, and goods or charges given if it is an insolvent transaction entered into within two years of the company commencing liquidation. An insolvent transaction is a transaction that, as per s 292 (2) of the Act, \"(a) is entered into at a time when the company is unable to pay its due debts; and (b) enables another person to receive more towards satisfaction of a debt owed by the company than the person would receive, or would be likely to receive, in the company's liquidation\".\n\nThis is because the \"fundamental principle\" underpinning insolvency law is the \"pari passu\" or equal step principle.\n\nHowever, as per section 292 (4B) of the Companies Act a \"series of transactions will be treated as a single transaction where such transactions are an integral part of a continuous business relationship between the parties (as where the parties have used a running account) and the level of the debtor company’s indebtedness fluctuates from time to time as a result of the various individual transactions. With a transaction of this type the liquidator will only be entitled to claim the net difference of payments made and goods and services received from a creditor, where there is an ongoing business relationship with the debtor company.\"\n\nThe liquidators in these two appeals heard together sought the court's adoption of the \"peak indebtedness rule\". The rule this; \"would enable the liquidators to choose the point during the two-year specified period when the relevant indebtedness was at its highest, as opposed to an earlier date taking into account transactions predating peak indebtedness.\"\n\nAs Justice Stevens summarised of the decision's importance, \"Naturally liquidators will wish to use the point where the indebtedness of the company is at its highest. On that basis, any later transactions under which the creditor provides further value to the company will be exceeded in value by other transactions reducing the company’s indebtedness. Liquidators could then point to the net reduction in indebtedness as amounting to a preference. Suppliers, however, will seek to use an earlier date so that any increase in indebtedness is offset by earlier transactions through which the creditor supplier gave value to the debtor company.\"\n\nThe Court of Appeal ruled against the liquidators,We are satisfied the peak indebtedness rule is not part of the law in New Zealand. If Parliament had intended to adopt it, it could have done so without difficulty. It chose not to do so. Any change to the legislative policy as we have interpreted it would be a matter for Parliament. We therefore dismiss the liquidators’ appeal and cross-appeal.\nJustice Stevens, giving the judgment of the court, explained the \"arbitrariness of peak indebtedness in operation\" through an example where three different creditors supply goods on differing terms to a company, but because of the peak indebtedness rule, the preference they are said to receive is wildly different as some transactions are disregarded by the calculation. Despite each creditor advancing the same value of goods to Company X and receiving the same payments in return, the peak indebtedness rule can operate to produce vastly different outcomes, merely on the basis of the particular credit arrangements in each case.Justice Stevens also noted that, The legislature did not see fit to address the peak indebtedness rule, or to include it in the wording of s 292(4B). ...The effect of the section, taken on its face, is to require all payments and transactions within the continuing business relationship to be netted off against one another. This includes both payments to the creditor and the supply of goods to the debtor. Of course where the business relationship began before the start of the two year period, only the transactions occurring within the period are taken into account. The statutory wording does not permit a liquidator to disregard some of those transactions. There is also no basis on which the liquidator can commence with only the first payment, and disregard the first supply of goods. The plain meaning of “all transactions” is just that.Furthermore, Stevens J observed that similarly to the rule in \"Allied Concrete Ltd v Meltzer\" [2015] NZSC 7, The distinct treatment of trade creditors is, in our view, a similar mechanism. Parliament took the decision to set aside a particular group of creditors who continue to provide credit and goods on the assumption of future trade. That is seen as having distinct commercial benefits in the context of liquidation. It is a policy choice consistent with New Zealand’s insolvency scheme generally.\n"}
{"id": "58454133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58454133", "title": "Uniform Power of Attorney Act", "text": "Uniform Power of Attorney Act\n\nThe Uniform Power of Attorney Act (2006) (UPOAA) was a law proposed by the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws (ULC) to create a uniform framework for power of attorney provisions throughout the United States.\n\nPrior to the debate regarding the proposal to create a uniform framework for power of attorney, provisions regarding power of attorney were left up to each state to decide. But, their existence was assume in the Uniform Probate Code, which the ULC had promulgated in 1969.\n\nSince a normal power of attorney ends once its purpose has been fulfilled or the principle is incapacitated, states made a distinction between this normal power of attorney and a \"durable\" power of attorney, which \"remains in effect even when the principal becomes incapacitated.\" This prompted to ULC to create a uniform law regarding Durable Power of Attorney, which superseded the original Uniform Probate Code.\n\nThe UPOAA was designed to correct shortcomings of both the Uniform Probate Code and the Durable Power of Attorney by supercedeing them both. It consisted of four distinct articles:\n\n\nThe ULC officially approved of the UPOAA and recommend that states adopt it in 2006.\n\nAs of 2011, every U.S. state, with the exception of Louisiana, has adopted and enacted the UPOAA.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12821545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12821545", "title": "Weinhard Brewery Complex", "text": "Weinhard Brewery Complex\n\nThe Henry Weinhard Brewery complex, also the Cellar Building and Brewhouse and Henry Weinhard's City Brewery, is a former brewery in Portland, Oregon. Since 2000, it has been listed on the National Register of Historic Places. In that same year, construction began to reuse the property as a multi-block, mixed-use development known as the Brewery Blocks.\n\nThe firm of Whidden & Lewis, Portland's pioneering architects, designed the Brewhouse. The building is designed in a medieval Tuscan style. Completed in 1908, other businesses in the area hired architects to emulate this design theme when building their own warehouses and industrial buildings. At its highest level, the structure has six floors. The structure is actually two buildings that appear as one: The Brewhouse (on the north side of the block), and the Malt and Hop Building (facing Burnside Street).\n\nHenry Weinhard purchased an existing brewery on this site, the City Brewery, in 1864. He then moved his operations to the then-two block site on West Burnside Street. Business boomed, and between 1865 and 1872 two additional blocks to the north were purchased. As many breweries also owned the saloons that sold their beer at the time, a large business empire owning properties throughout the Northwest, from San Francisco to Canada was run from here. Weinhard's brewing business continued to expand to the point where he even offered to pipe beer directly to the Skidmore Fountain. This offer was declined by civic leaders. By 1890, the brewery produced 100,000 barrels of beer annually.\n\nThe present buildings were completed in 1908 in order to meet the expanding brewing needs of the Henry Weinhard brewing empire, now serving the Pacific Northwest and even the Philippines and China. Once Prohibition was enacted, the brewery managed to survive by brewing near-beer (a brew of less than 0.5 percent alcohol), syrups and sodas – such as root beer, becoming a local bottler of national brands. Vanilla cream and other syrup products were marketed as \"Gourmet Elixirs\".\nMergers with and sales to other breweries occurred over the years. A merger with competitor Portland Brewing brought the Blitz name into the formal name of the brewery. Arnold Blitz, who had owned Portland Brewing, became Chairman of the new Blitz-Weinhard company. The new company took 20 years to modernize the brewery and recover from Prohibition, which ended in 1933. In 1979, Blitz-Weinhard was sold to the Pabst Brewing Company. Pabst then sold the brewery to Stroh Brewing Company in 1996. The last and final sale of the company in 1999 had major effects on the brewery building. Stroh's sold the Henry Weinhard's brand to Miller Brewing Company, and moved all Henry's brewing operations to the Olympia Brewery in Tumwater, Washington. After nearly 135 years of continual operations, the Weinhard Brewery brewed its last beer on August 27, 1999. It was put up for sale the following month.\n\nIn early 2000, local developers Gerdling-Edlen purchased the entire brewing complex, which consisted of five blocks by the end of brewing operations. GBD proceeded to develop a mixed-use area consisting of offices, retail, and condo towers known as the Brewery Blocks. As part of the project, historic buildings were to be preserved and integrated into the new development. The brewhouse's historical importance was recognized with a listing on the National Register of Historic Places, along with the A.B. Smith Building's art deco facade, in August 2000, a year after brewing had ceased.\n\nThe renovated Brewhouse was completed in November 2002, after two years of extensive renovations. The west side of the Brewhouse's low as developed into Brewery Tower, an office building. The upper floors of the historic buildings are office space, and the first floors contain retail. Henry's 12th Street Tavern, in the Brewhouse building, continues the building's historical connection to beer. The building was awarded an LEED certification.\n\n\n"}
