{"id": "53266201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53266201", "title": "Abortion in the Federated States of Micronesia", "text": "Abortion in the Federated States of Micronesia\n\nAbortion in the Federated States of Micronesia is only legal if the abortion will save the woman's life. \n\nBefore the Federated States of Micronesia gained sovereignty in 1986, its laws followed the codes set in place by the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, meaning the territory legally observed abortion laws in the United States. With independence, the nation was authorized to set its own laws regarding abortion, and government officials priotized local customs in court cases that charged abortion as a criminal act.\n\nIn the Federated States of Micronesia, women have traditionally induced abortion with local herbs, by inserting foreign bodies into the womb, or through ritual bathing and massages. The rate of local remedies for abortion is difficult to determine because cases are only reported when the abortion leads to severe injury, hospitalization, and death.\n"}
{"id": "34185241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34185241", "title": "Anil Potti", "text": "Anil Potti\n\nAnil Potti is a physician and former Duke University associate professor and cancer researcher, focusing on oncogenomics. He, along with Joseph Nevins, are at the center of a research fabrication scandal at Duke University. On November 9, 2015, the Office of Research Integrity (ORI) found that Potti had engaged in research misconduct. According to Potti's voluntary settlement agreement with ORI, Potti can continue to perform research with the requirement of supervision until year 2020, while he \"neither admits nor denies ORI's findings of research misconduct.\" As of 2018 Potti, who is employed at the Cancer Center of North Dakota, has had 11 of his publications retracted and seven more corrected.\n\nAnil Potti graduated from Christian Medical College, Vellore, India in 1995. He finished an internship in Internal Medicine at the University of North Dakota School of Medicine in 1999. In 2006 Potti completed training in hematology and oncology at Duke University.\n\nPotti resigned from Duke in 2010, following the discovery of flaws in the genomics research conducted at Duke and allegations of embellishments in his resume, assuming responsibility for the anomalies in the scientific research.\n\nFollowing his resignation from Duke, Potti worked as an oncologist in South Carolina, but was let go in 2012.\n\nAccording to the Office of Research Integrity (ORI), Potti engaged in scientific misconduct while a cancer researcher at both Duke University's Medical Center and School of Medicine. He resigned in November 2010 after Duke put him on administrative leave, terminated the clinical trials based on his research and retracted his published data.\n\nPotti and his team were accused of falsifying data regarding the use of microarray genetic analysis for personalised cancer treatment, which was published in various prestigious scientific journals. While there were questions concerning Potti's work beginning in 2007, notably two Bioinformatic Statisticians Keith Baggerly and Kevin Coombes at MD Anderson Cancer Center, 2010 brought further and more widespread scrutiny when it was discovered by Paul Goldberg and reported in The Cancer Letter that Potti had claimed on his curriculum vitae that he had been a \"Rhodes Scholar (Australian Board)\". He said he was referring to the Association of Rhodes Scholars in Australia Scholarships, an award granted by an organisation of former Rhodes Scholars to bring Commonwealth citizens who attend overseas institutions in to Australia.\n\nPotti's fraudulent research was funded by the US government through the National Institutes of Health, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, and National Cancer Institute, in the form of six multi-year grants, and by the Howard Hughes Medical Institute.\n\n60 minutes described the case as \"one of the biggest medical research frauds ever\".\n\nDuke University became aware of the suspicions of research misconduct by 2008, when a medical student working with Potti and Nevins withdrew his name from the research and submitted a memorandum entitled \"Research Concerns\" to the administration. The administration denied any misconduct and convinced the student not to report his experiences to the funding agency, Howard Hughes Medical Institute. Duke later claimed that there had not been a whistleblower in the issue.\n\nThe Potti scandal prompted the Institute of Medicine to conduct a study of the proper use of genomics in clinical trials. The Institute of Medicine's report, entitled \"Evolution of Translational Omics: Lessons Learned and the Path Forward\", was published on 23 March 2012 and made detailed specific recommendations for clinical trials that incorporate \"omics\". In February 2012, Joseph Nevins stated that it was \"abundantly clear\" that there was \"manipulated data\" that could not have occurred by chance. This was confirmed by the 2015 ORI report.\n\nHealthcare companies cut ties with Potti after evidence surfaced that Potti had fabricated awards on his resume. The American Cancer Society stopped payments of a five-year grant which totaled $729,000 as Potti had received the grant based on his credentials. Duke University later reimbursed the American Cancer Society for the full amount of the grant.\n\nThree clinical trials at Duke University Medical Center based on Potti's research came under scrutiny in 2009 and were temporarily suspended, then were permanently stopped in 2010. The United States Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) reviewed one of the studies in 2009, several years after its initiation, and concluded that the study would require an Investigational New Drug application, which had not been submitted. An FDA audit in 2011 further showed that an Investigational Device Exemption application had not been filed, but otherwise found \"no significant deficiencies\" in Duke's IRB conduct. Potti's medical license record with the North Carolina Medical Board shows eleven settlements, each of at least $75,000, for incidents that appear to be related to these trials.\n\nIn late 2011, the North Carolina Medical Board reprimanded Potti but he retains his medical license. The board issued its disciplinary action against Potti but imposed no sanctions. In its consent order, the North Carolina Medical Board stated that the board has no evidence from which it could conclude that Potti received funding for medical research as a result of the inaccuracies that he would not have otherwise received, but concluded that \"...Potti's conduct as described herein constitutes unprofessional conduct...\" In separate action on Potti's medical license, the North Carolina Medical Board reviewed 11 payments made to settle malpractice claims and posted on its website that \"no public action was warranted\". Potti was issued a medical license in Missouri on 1 February 2011; on 6 March 2012, the Missouri medical board (known as the Board of Registration for the Healing Arts) issued a reprimand on the basis of actions taken by the North Carolina Medical Board.\n\nIn January 2011 Potti applied for a medical license in South Carolina, which was approved in April 2011. Potti was employed as a practicing physician at the Coastal Cancer Center in Loris from March 2011 until 21 February 2012, when he was let go.\n\nIn addition to the settlements, two lawsuits also have been filed against Potti, as well as against Duke and other medical personnel there, charging medical negligence among other claims. In his response to the lawsuits, Potti stated that he was \"not aware that false or improper data was included in the research.\"\n\nRobert Califf of Duke testified that they had looked at 40 of Potti's publications and that two-thirds of them would be retracted in whole or in part. \"Science\" reported this as \"The fallout from the Duke case includes 27 papers that Duke expects to be partially or completely retracted\". As of February 2012, ten scientific papers authored by Potti and others have been retracted.\n\nAfter leaving Duke, Potti hired Online Reputation Manager, a reputation management company, to improve search results for his name.\n\nIn February 2013, WordPress received DMCA takedown notices for Retraction Watch blog posts critical of Potti and the posts were removed. Retraction Watch alleges that these DMCA take-down notices were based on false claims. In November, 2013, Automattic, provider of the WordPress webhost service that hosts Retraction Watch, filed suit against the filer of the takedown notice, saying that he had made those false claims in violation of the DMCA.\n\nFollowing questions raised about genomics research that was led by Potti and Nevins at Duke between 2004 and 2010,<ref name=\"http://www.iom.edu/Reports/2012/Evolution-of-Translational-Omics.aspx\"></ref> the National Cancer Institute requested that the Institute of Medicine (IOM) establish a committee to recommend ways to strengthen omics-based test development and evaluation. The IOM's recommendations released in March 2012 spoke to the many parties responsible for discovery and development of omics-based tests, including investigators, their institutions, sponsors of research, the FDA, and journals. The report identified best practices to enhance development, evaluation, and translation of omics-based tests while simultaneously reinforcing steps to ensure that these tests are appropriately assessed for scientific validity before they are used to guide patient treatment in clinical trials. The IOM's recommendations aimed to ensure that progress in omics test development is grounded in sound scientific practice and is reproducible, resulting not only in improved health care but also in continued public trust.\n\nThe IOM report further added that \"failure by many parties [at Duke] to detect or act on problems with key data and computational methods … led to the inappropriate enrollment of patients in clinical trials, premature launch of companies and retraction of dozens of research papers. The report specifically called for scientific investigators to make the data, computer codes and computational procedures used to develop their clinical tests \"publicly accessible for independent review\" and to ensure that their data and research steps are presented comprehensibly. The report also found that so-called \"omics\" tests – such as genomics and proteomics, which are diagnostic tools based on molecular patterns – are in general highly prone to errors. IOM committee chair Gilbert Omenn, a computational biologist at the University of Michigan, said the problems could have been avoided. But he noted, as well, that those kind of problems were not unique to Duke.\"There are a lot of lessons here that surely apply to other places,\" Omenn said.\n\nOne question that neither Duke nor people involved in the research have been able to explicitly answer thus far is how data corruption or manipulation that would require thorough knowledge of microarray data warehouse (large specialised databases) as well as bioinformatics occurred. Dr. Robert Califf's comments about TMQF only addresses data provenance, adequate quantitative collaboration, accountability and open dialogue about issues beyond the individual lab and systems to deal with conflict of interest.\n\nIn a curt exchange with committee member Thomas Fleming, a professor of biostatistics at the University of Washington, Dr. Joseph Nevins refused to say how he believed the data problems occurred. When Fleming pointed out that because the problems in the data improved the experimental results, it seemed that they were introduced intentionally. \"I can't address it,\" Nevins responded. \"I just can't get into a position of speculating on how it happened.\n\nAs of 2018, 11 papers co-authored by Potti have been retracted, and seven others have been corrected. Potti's retracted papers are:\n\n\nThis article was published by \"PNAS\". Gene expressions could allow the researchers to see if tumors are uniform throughout. This could also be used with colon cancer. They also can help predict how a person will respond to treatment and improve prognosis. The authors said they wanted to retract this article because \"…we have been unable to reproduce certain key experiments described in the paper regarding validation and use of the colon cancer prognostic signature. This includes the validation performed with dataset E-MEXP-1224, as reported in Fig. 2A, as well as the generation of prognostic scores for colon cancer cell lines, as reported in Fig. 4…\"\n\n\nThis article was published in \"Lancet Oncology.\" This study involved patients with oestrogen-receptor-negative breast cancer. The researchers wanted to confirm their previous studies of gene-expression signatures in predicting the effects of chemotherapeutic drugs. The article was retracted because the validity of the results was beginning to be questioned and because predictions were made off of the \"Nature Medicine\" article that was retracted.\n\n\nThis article was published in \"Nature Medicine\". Gene expression signatures were developed with in vitro drug sensitivity data and Affymetrix microarray data. These were used to help predict response and sensitivity to chemotherapeutic drugs as well as corresponding drugs. This article was retracted after being corrected because many key experiments could not be reproduced.\n\n\nThis article was published in \"JAMA\" (Journal of American Medicine Association). The patients had early-stage breast carcinoma. The study's main point was to find if gene expression signatures could refine breast cancer prognosis. This article talks about cancer, genomic technology, and chemotherapy and radiation.\nThis article was retracted because a large part of the article was based on another article that Potti had written and had published in \"Nature Medicine\". The article in \"Nature Medicine\" had been retracted because of failure to reproduce results.\n\n\nThis article was published in the \"Journal of Clinical Oncology\". Usually, platinum-based chemotherapy is used to treat non-small cell lung cancer, but how patients respond is highly variable. This article also talks about predicting how individuals will respond to cisplatin and pemetrexed. This article was retracted because experiments could not be reproduced.\n\n\nThis article was published in the journal \"Blood\". Venous thromboembolism (VTE) affects about 3 in 1000 Americans. Out of the three, 10% have aPLAs. This study consisted of 129 patients. Out of those 129, 57 had APS and VTE, 32 had VTE without aPLA, 32 had aPLA, and 8 were healthy. Gene-expression profiles identify and predict individuals with APS from patients with VTE without aPLA. It is important to be able to predict APS and venous thrombosis because it will help with the management of the disease. This article was retracted because the other authors were unable to reproduce the data Potti cited.\n\n\nThis article was published in the \"New England Journal of Medicine\". The patients of this study were in stage IB, II, or IIIA of non-small cell lung cancer. Many patients receive surgery, but the risk of relapse is high. Others receive toxic chemotherapy unnecessarily. This study used gene-expressions to evaluate what form of treatment would be best. This article was retracted by the authors because they could not reproduce the results from the article.\n\n\nThis article was published in \"PLoS ONE\". It is important for cancer patients to receive the most effective treatment while also hopefully having the best quality of life possible. The researchers developed mRNA and microRNA profiles. They tested the mRNA profiles on 133 breast cancer patients. These breast cancer patients had been treated with TFAC chemotherapy treatment. This article was retracted as some of the information used in it derived from the \"Nature Medicine\" article which had been retracted. As that article had been retracted, it was felt that this article should be, as well.\n\n\nThis paper was published in the Journal of Clinical Oncology in February 2007. The research studied ovarian cancer patient responses to platinum-based therapy. This marks the latest in a series of about 13 expected Potti retractions, with another 13 expected partial retractions.\n\n\nThis paper was published in Clinical Cancer Research on 15 December 2009. The study purportedly found a common gene expression pattern between lung adenocarcinomas and normal human embryonic stem cells that was associated with a shorter survival of patients with the lung cancer. On 21 February 2012, the manuscript was retracted. The retraction statement was signed by all authors and indicated \"that clinical information from a data set ... available at the time of the signature development, was incorrect\". Further, that statement indicated that \"Drs. Anil Potti and Marvaretta Stevenson take full responsibility for this error\".\n\n\nPublished in the journal Chest, this paper was retracted in 2012 with the retraction notice stating \"The authors relied on the results reported by Potti, and they were not aware of the errors subsequently reported.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "97274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=97274", "title": "Apis (deity)", "text": "Apis (deity)\n\nIn ancient Egyptian religion, Apis or Hapis (, reconstructed as Old Egyptian with unknown final vowel > Middle Egyptian , ), alternatively spelled Hapi-ankh, was a sacred bull worshiped in the Memphis region, identified as the son of Hathor, a primary deity in the pantheon of Ancient Egypt. Initially, he was assigned a significant role in her worship, being sacrificed and reborn. Later, Apis also served as an intermediary between humans and other powerful deities (originally Ptah, later Osiris, then Atum).\n\nThe Apis bull was an important sacred animal to the ancient Egyptians. As with the other sacred beasts Apis' importance increased over the centuries. During colonization of the conquered Egypt, Greek and Roman authors had much to say about Apis, the markings by which the black calf was recognized, the manner of his conception by a ray from heaven, his house at Memphis (with a court for his deportment), the mode of prognostication from his actions, his death, the mourning at his death, his costly burial, and the rejoicings throughout the country when a new Apis was found. Auguste Mariette's excavation of the Serapeum of Saqqara revealed the tombs of more than sixty animals, ranging from the time of Amenhotep III to that of the Ptolemaic dynasty. Originally, each animal was buried in a separate tomb with a chapel built above it.\n\nWorship of an Apis bull, experienced by ancient Egyptians as holy, has been known since the First Dynasty in Memphis, while worship of the Apis as a proper god, at least according to Manetho's \"Aegyptiaca\", seems to be a later adoption, purportedly started during the reign of king \"Kaiechos\" (possibly Nebra) of the Second Dynasty.\n\nApis is named on very early monuments, but little is known of the divine animal before the New Kingdom. Ceremonial burials of bulls indicate that ritual sacrifice was part of the worship of the early cow deities, Hathor and Bat, and a bull might represent her offspring, a king who became a deity after death. He was entitled \"the renewal of the life\" of the Memphite deity Ptah: but after death he became Osorapis, i.e. the Osiris Apis, just as dead humans were assimilated to Osiris, the ruler of the underworld. This Osorapis was identified with Serapis of the late Hellenistic period and may well be identical with him. Creating parallels to their own religious beliefs, ancient Greek writers identified Apis as an incarnation of Osiris, ignoring the connection with Ptah.\n\nApis was the most popular of three great bull cults of ancient Egypt, the others being the cults of Mnevis and Buchis. All are related to the worship of Hathor or Bat, similar primary goddesses separated by region until unification that eventually merged as Hathor. The worship of Apis was continued by the Greeks and after them by the Romans, and lasted until almost 400 CE.\n\nThis animal was chosen because it symbolized the courageous heart, great strength, and fighting spirit of the king. Apis came to being considered a manifestation of the king, as bulls were symbols of strength and fertility, qualities that are closely linked with kingship. \"strong bull of his mother Hathor\" was a common title for Egyptian gods and male kings, being unused for women serving as king, such as Hatshepsut.\n\nAs early as the time of the Narmer Palette, the king is depicted with a bovine tail on one side, and a bull is seen knocking down the walls of a city on the other.\n\nOccasionally, Apis was pictured with the sun-disk symbol of his mother, Hathor, between his horns, being one of few deities ever associated with her symbol. When the disk was depicted on his head with his horns below and the triangular marking on his forehead, an ankh was suggested. That symbol always was closely associated with Hathor.\n\nEarly on, Apis was the herald () of Ptah, the chief deity in the area around Memphis. As a manifestation of Ptah, Apis also was considered to be a symbol of the king, embodying the qualities of kingship. In the region where Ptah was worshiped, cattle exhibited white patterning on their mainly black bodies, and so a belief grew up that the Apis calf had to have a certain set of markings suitable to its role. It was required to have a white triangular marking upon its forehead, a white Egyptian vulture wing outline on its back, a scarab mark under its tongue, a white crescent moon shape on its right flank, and double hairs on his tail.\n\nThe calf that matched these markings was selected from the herds, brought to a temple, given a harem of cows, and worshiped as an aspect of Ptah. The cow who was his mother was believed to have conceived him by a flash of lightning from the heavens, or from moonbeams. She also was treated specially, and given a special burial. At the temple, Apis was used as an oracle, his movements being interpreted as prophecies. His breath was believed to cure disease and his presence to bless those around with strength. A window was created in the temple through which he could be viewed and, on certain holidays, he was led through the streets of the city, bedecked with jewelry and flowers.\n\nDetails of the mummification ritual of the sacred bull are written within the Apis papyrus. Sometimes the body of the bull was mummified and fixed in a standing position on a foundation made of wooden planks. \n\nBy the New Kingdom period, the remains of the sacred bulls were interred at the cemetery of Saqqara. The earliest known burial in Saqqara was performed in the reign of Amenhotep III by his son Thutmose; afterward, seven more bulls were buried nearby. Ramesses II initiated Apis burials in what now is known as the Serapeum, an underground complex of burial chambers at Saqqara for the sacred bulls, a site used throughout the rest of Ancient Egyptian history into the reign of Cleopatra.\n\nKhaemweset, the priestly son of Ramesses II (c. 1300 BCE), excavated a great gallery to be lined with the tomb chambers; another similar gallery was added by Psamtik I. The careful documentation of the ages of the animals in the later instances, with the regnal dates for their birth, enthronement, and death have thrown much light on the chronology from the Twenty-second Dynasty onward. The name of the mother cow and the place of the calf's birth often are recorded. The sarcophagi are of immense size and the burial must have entailed enormous expense. It is remarkable, therefore, that the ancient religious leaders contrived to bury one of the animals in the fourth year of Cambyses II.\n\nThe Apis was a protector of the deceased and linked to the pharaoh. Horns embellish some of the tombs of ancient pharaohs and Apis often was depicted on private coffins as a powerful protector. As a form of Osiris, ruler of the underworld, it was believed that to be under the protection of Apis would give the person control over the four winds in the afterlife.\n\nAccording to Arrian, Apis was one of the Egyptian deities Alexander the Great propitiated by offering a sacrifice during his seizure of Ancient Egypt from the Persians. After Alexander's death, his general Ptolemy I Soter made efforts to integrate Egyptian religion with that of the new Hellenic rulers. Ptolemy's policy was to find a deity that might win the reverence of both groups, despite the curses of the Egyptian religious leaders against the deities of the previous foreign rulers (i.e. Set, lauded by the Hyksos). Without success, Alexander had attempted to use Amun for this purpose, but that deity was more prominent in Upper Egypt and not for those in Lower Egypt, where the Greeks had stronger influence. Since the Greeks had little respect for animal-headed deities, a Greek statue was created as an idol and proclaimed as an anthropomorphic equivalent of the highly popular Apis. It was named \"Aser-hapi\" (i.e. \"Osiris-Apis\"), which became Serapis, and later was said to represent Osiris fully, rather than just his Ka.\n\nThe earliest mention of a \"Serapis\" is in the authentic death scene of Alexander, from the royal diaries. Here, \"Serapis\" has a temple at Babylon, and is of such importance that he alone is named as being consulted on behalf of the dying Alexander. The presence of this temple in Babylon radically altered perceptions of the mythologies of this era, although it has been discovered that the unconnected Babylonian deity Ea was entitled \"Serapsi\", meaning \"king of the deep\", and it is Serapsi who is referred to in the diaries, not Serapis. The significance of this \"Serapsi\" in the Hellenic psyche, however, due to its involvement in Alexander's death, also may have contributed to the choice of \"Osiris-Apis\" as the chief Ptolemaic deity during their occupation of Ancient Egypt.\n\nAccording to Plutarch, Ptolemy stole the statue from Sinope, having been instructed in a dream by the Unknown God to bring the statue to Alexandria, where the statue was pronounced to be \"Serapis\" by two religious experts. Among those experts was one of the Eumolpidae, the ancient family from which the hierophant of the Eleusinian Mysteries traditionally had been chosen since before any historical records. The other expert supposedly was the scholarly Egyptian priest Manetho, which increased acceptability from both the Egyptians and the Greeks.\n\nPlutarch may not be correct, however, as some Egyptologists assert that the \"Sinope\" in Plutarch's report is the hill of Sinopeion, a name given to the site of an existing Serapeum at Memphis. Also, according to Tacitus, Serapis (i.e. Apis explicitly identified as Osiris in full) had been the tutelary deity of the village of Rhacotis, before it suddenly expanded into the great capital of \"Alexandria\".\n\nBeing introduced by the Greeks, understandably, the statue depicted a fully human figure resembling Hades or Pluto, both being kings of the Greek underworld. The figure was enthroned with the \"modius\", which is a basket or a grain-measure, on his head, a Greek symbol for the land of the dead. He also held a sceptre, indicating rulership, and Cerberus, gatekeeper of the underworld, rested at his feet. It also had what appeared to be a serpent at its base, fitting the Egyptian symbol of sovereignty, the uraeus.\n\nWith his (i.e., Osiris') wife, Isis, and their son (at this point in history) Horus (in the form of \"Harpocrates\"), Serapis won an important place in the Greek world, reaching Ancient Rome, with Anubis being identified as Cerberus. \nThe cult survived until 385, when Christians destroyed the Serapeum of Alexandria, and subsequently, the cult was forbidden by the Edict of Thessalonica.\n\nThe pharmaceutical company Novo Nordisk uses Apis as its logo.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43083151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43083151", "title": "Baosheng Dadi", "text": "Baosheng Dadi\n\nBaosheng Dadi also Pao Sheng Ta Ti or Poh Seng Tai Tay (; Pe̍h-ōe-jī: Pó-seng tāi-tè) is a Chinese god of medicine worshiped in Chinese folk religion and Taoism most popularly in Fujian and Taiwan.\n\nWu Tao or Wu Ben (吳本) was born in the village of Bailiao near Xiamen in Fujian Province, during the Song Dynasty in the year 979. He was a skilled doctor and Taoist practitioner who was credited with performing medical miracles, including applying eye drops to a dragon’s eye and removing a foreign object from a tiger’s throat. After his death in 1036, he began to be worshiped as a deity. His deified status was officially recognized by the Hongxi Emperor of the Ming Dynasty who conferred on him the title of “Imperial Inspector at Heavenly Gate, Miracle Doctor of Compassion Relief, Great Taoist Immortal, and the Long-lived, Unbounded, Life Protection Emperor (恩主昊天金闕御史慈濟醫靈妙道真君萬壽無極保生大帝)”.\n\nHe is worshiped at many temples in Fujian and Taiwan, including Dalongdong Baoan Temple (大龍峒保安宮) in Taipei. His birthday is celebrated with parades and festivals on the 15th day of the third lunar month.\n\nChinese Mythology\n"}
{"id": "19092728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19092728", "title": "Basopenia", "text": "Basopenia\n\nBasopenia (or basocytopenia) is a form of agranulocytosis associated with a deficiency of basophils.\n\nIt has been proposed as an indicator of ovulation.It is difficult to detect without flow cytometry, because normal levels are so low.\n\nIt can be defined as less than 0.01 x 10 / L.\n\n"}
{"id": "22521820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22521820", "title": "Biological interface engineering", "text": "Biological interface engineering\n\nBiological interface engineering is a branch of bioengineering (specifically a subset of tissue and biological materials engineering) dedicated to the study of biological response to materials and material response to biologicals. Most applications of biological interface engineering are related (but not limited to) material, structural and geometric configurations of: vasculature devices, orthopedic devices, neurological devices and organ replacement devices. Biological interface engineering involves the marriage of analytical, organic and physical chemistry with genetic, cellular and whole body system biological sciences. Further, biological interface engineering uses concepts developed in traditional materials engineering to describe phenomena observed at the interface of a biological device and a living organism.\n\n"}
{"id": "33855225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33855225", "title": "Biological specimen", "text": "Biological specimen\n\nA biological specimen (also called a biospecimen) is a biological laboratory specimen held by a biorepository for research. Such a specimen would be taken by sampling so as to be representative of any other specimen taken from the source of the specimen. When biological specimens are stored, ideally they remain equivalent to freshly-collected specimens for the purposes of research.\n\nHuman biological specimens are stored in a type of biorepository called a biobank, and the science of preserving biological specimens is most active in the field of biobanking.\n\nSetting broad standards for quality of biological specimens was initially an underdeveloped aspect of biobank growth. There is currently discussion on what standards should be in place and who should manage those standards. Since many organizations set their own standards and since biobanks are necessarily used by multiple organizations and typically are driven towards expansion, the harmonization of standard operating procedures for lab practices are a high priority. The procedures have to be evidence-based and will change with time as new research and technology becomes available.\n\nSome progress for the creation of policy-making organizations include the National Cancer Institute's 2005 creation of the Office of Biobanking and Biospecimen Research (OBBR) and the annual Biospecimen Research Network Symposia. The International Society for Biological and Environmental Repositories, International Agency for Research on Cancer, Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, and the Australasian Biospecimen Network have also proposed policies and standards. In 2008 AFNOR, a French standardization organization, published the first biobank-specific quality standard. Aspects of ISO 9000 have been applied to biobanks.\n\nQuality criteria for specimens depends on the study being considered and there is not a universal standard specimen type. DNA integrity is an important factor for studies which involve whole genome amplification. RNA integrity is critical for some studies and can be assessed by gel electrophoresis. Also biobanks, which do specimen storage, cannot take full responsibility for specimen integrity, because before they take custody of samples someone must collect and process them and effects such as RNA degradation are more likely to occur from delayed sample processing than inadequate storage.\n\nBiorepositories store various types of specimens. Different specimens are useful for different purposes.\n\nMany specimens in biobanks are cryopreserved. Other specimens are stored in other ways.\n\nSome of the laboratory techniques associated with biological specimen storage include phenol-chloroform extraction, PCR, and RFLP.\n\n"}
{"id": "9125999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9125999", "title": "Blood sugar regulation", "text": "Blood sugar regulation\n\nBlood sugar regulation is the process by which the levels of blood sugar, primarily glucose, are maintained by the body within a narrow range. This tight regulation is referred to as glucose homeostasis. Insulin, which lowers blood sugar, and glucagon, which raises it, are the most well known of the hormones involved, but more recent discoveries of other glucoregulatory hormones have expanded the understanding of this process.\n\nBlood sugar levels are regulated by negative feedback in order to keep the body in balance. The levels of glucose in the blood are monitored by many tissues, but the cells in the pancreatic islets are among the most well understood and important.\n\nIf the blood glucose level falls to dangerous levels (as during very heavy exercise or lack of food for extended periods), the alpha cells of the pancreas release glucagon, a hormone whose effects on liver cells act to increase blood glucose levels. They convert glycogen into glucose (this process is called glycogenolysis). The glucose is released into the bloodstream, increasing blood sugar. Hypoglycemia, the state of having low blood sugar, is treated by restoring the blood glucose level to normal by the ingestion or administration of dextrose or carbohydrate foods. It is often self-diagnosed and self-medicated orally by the ingestion of balanced meals. In more severe circumstances, it is treated by injection or infusion of glucagon.\n\nWhen levels of blood sugar rise, whether as a result of glycogen conversion, or from digestion of a meal, a different hormone is released from beta cells found in the Islets of Langerhans in the pancreas. This hormone, insulin, causes the liver to convert more glucose into glycogen (this process is called glycogenesis), and to force about 2/3 of body cells (primarily muscle and fat tissue cells) to take up glucose from the blood through the GLUT4 transporter, thus decreasing blood sugar. When insulin binds to the receptors on the cell surface, vesicles containing the GLUT4 transporters come to the plasma membrane and fuse together by the process of endocytosis, thus enabling a facilitated diffusion of glucose into the cell. As soon as the glucose enters the cell, it is phosphorylated into Glucose-6-Phosphate in order to preserve the concentration gradient so glucose will continue to enter the cell. Insulin also provides signals to several other body systems, and is the chief regulator of metabolic control in humans.\n\nThere are also several other causes for an increase in blood sugar levels. Among them are the 'stress' hormones such as epinephrine (also known as adrenaline), several of the steroids, infections, trauma, and of course, the ingestion of food.\n\nDiabetes mellitus type 1 is caused by insufficient or non-existent production of insulin, while type 2 is primarily due to a decreased response to insulin in the tissues of the body (insulin resistance). Both types of diabetes, if untreated, result in too much glucose remaining in the blood (hyperglycemia) and many of the same complications. Also, too much insulin and/or exercise without enough corresponding food intake in diabetics can result in low blood sugar (hypoglycemia).\n\nSome edible mushrooms are noted for the ability to lower blood sugar levels including lingzhi, maitake \"Agaricus blazei\" as well as some others.\n\nSome minerals play roles in glucose regulation: see Chromium in glucose metabolism for example.\n"}
{"id": "12605357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12605357", "title": "CHRISTUS Trinity Mother Frances Health System", "text": "CHRISTUS Trinity Mother Frances Health System\n\nCHRISTUS Trinity Mother Frances Health System is a non-profit regional health care provider based in Tyler, Texas that operates eight hospitals and 82 clinic locations in East Texas.\n\nIn the early 1930s, the Sisters of The Holy Family of Nazareth came to Tyler, Texas from the Sacred Heart Province in Chicago to open Mother Frances Hospital. The hospital was named in honor of Frances Siedliska, the founder of the Sisters of the Holy Family of Nazareth. The hospital opened on March 18, 1937 – one day ahead of schedule – to care for victims of the New London School explosion.\n\nIn 1948, the Sisters of the Holy Family of Nazareth completed the purchase of the hospital from the City of Tyler and in October 1965, Mother Frances Week was celebrated in Tyler, dedicating a new wing. This $4.5 million wing added 110 new patient beds and a new cafeteria to the hospital.\n\nIn 1934, The Trinity Clinic began as The Bryant Clinic. It was founded by Dr. William Howard Bryant and Dr. Sidney W. Bradford. The Bryant Clinic received the first call for help in Tyler to treat the victims of the New London tragedy. In 1948, The Bryant Clinic changed its name to The Medical & Surgical Clinic and later, with the addition of two other Tyler-area medical practices, became Trinity Clinic. Today, Trinity Clinic is the area's biggest multi-specialty medical group, with over 300 providers representing 38 specialties in 36 clinic locations in East Texas.\n\nIn 1995, Mother Frances Hospital and Trinity Clinic merged, creating Trinity Mother Frances Health System, one of the first integrated health care systems in the United States. In 2007, Trinity Mother Frances Health System changed its name to Trinity Mother Frances Hospitals and Clinics.\n\nIn May 2016, Trinity Mother Frances Hospitals and Clinics merged with CHRISTUS Health to create CHRISTUS Trinity Mother Frances Health System and CHRISTUS Trinity Clinic.\n\nIn June 2016, CHRISTUS Health and Hopkins County Memorial Hospital in Sulphur Springs, Texas finalized an agreement to create CHRISTUS Hopkins Health Alliance and make Hopkins County Memorial Hospital a part of CHRISTUS Trinity Mother Frances Health System. The agreement included a change of name for the hospital to CHRISTUS Mother Frances Hospital - \"Sulphur Springs\" and its clinics to CHRISTUS Trinity Clinic - Sulphur Springs and CHRISTUS Trinity Clinic - Emory.\n\nIn July 2017, Magnolia Health Systems - Physicians of East Texas (MHS) became a part of CHRISTUS Trinity Mother Frances. This includes clinic locations in Palestine, Elkhart, Fairfield, Grapeland and Buffalo, Texas.\n\nIn August 2017, CHRISTUS Trinity Clinic - \"Crockett\" opened as a family medicine clinic in Crockett, Texas.\n\nThe system has picked up a number of national awards for health care, including designations as a \"100 Top Hospital\" by Truven Health Analytics (2017); ranked the No. 1 hospital in Texas for Patient Safety in Overall Hospital and Surgical Care by CareChex (2016); National Benchmarks for Success award winner by Soluticient 2006; winner of the 2007 Texas Health Care Quality Improvement Award; designated as a Blue Cross and Blue Shield Distinction Center+ for Cardiac Care, Bariatric Surgery, Spine Surgery and Knee and Hip Replacement Services; National Research Corporation Consumer Choice winner; and listed among the top five percent in the nation for patient satisfaction by Press Ganey, Inc.\n"}
{"id": "10193102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10193102", "title": "Certified safety professional", "text": "Certified safety professional\n\nThe Certified Safety Professional (CSP) is a certification offered by the Board of Certified Safety Professionals (BCSP). The CSP is accredited in the United States by the National Commission for Certifying Agencies and internationally by the International Organization for Standardization/International Electrotechnical Commission (ISO/IEC 17024) (see ANSI) and 193 Countries Consortium .\n\nThe requirements to become a CSP are:\n\nCSPs are further required to provide BCSP with proof that they are maintaining a high level of competency in safety work by recertifying every five years.\n\nSimilar to the CSP in the US, Canada offers the CRSP (Canadian Registered Safety Professional) designation, through the Board of Canadian Registered Safety Professionals\n\nApplicants must meet some prerequisites prior to submitting a formal application:\n\n\n1. Application: Once the applicant has met the prerequisites, they must complete the \"Application for Canadian Registered Safety Professional Designation\", obtained from the BCRSP board. The lengthy application requires a compilation of all the applicant’s course and job descriptions.\n\n2. Evaluation: The BCRSP Board reviews the application. The applicant is then advised if they meet the minimum requirements or not. If the application is accepted, then the applicant is advised that they will soon be contacted for an interview.\n\n3. Interview: The interview is set up with a member of the BCRSP’s Regional Screening Centre personnel in the applicant’s geographical area. It’s an informal meeting, where the applicant’s work and educational Occupational Health & Safety experience are discussed.\n\n4. Examination: The applicant has to write a comprehensive 3.5 hour multiple choice exam that covers Accident Theory, Environmental Practices, Ergonomics, Fire Prevention and Protection, Health Promotion, HSE Auditing, Law and Ethics, Occupational Health Safety and Environment Systems, Occupational Hygiene, Risk Management, and Safety Techniques and Technology. Study guides and books are recommended by the Board, and numerous preparatory courses are available through:\n\n4. Approval: If the applicant minimally achieves the passing score on the examination, they receive notification of such.\n\n5. Confirmation: The applicant revives the CRSP Designation along with their designation registration number.\n\nIn Order to maintain a professional safety designation continuing education is often required with most designations. To be in good standing with the certification body, continuing education units (CEU) or professional developmental conferences (PDC) must be completed within a designated time frame and approved by the certification body. Some provincial trade associations and safety associations have their industry designations such as:\n\nInternationally, other countries have set up similar programs. In the UK the highest professional standing is that of a chartered safety and health practitioner or fellow of IIRSM. The standards are maintained by both the UK’s largest body for safety professionals Institution of Occupational Safety and Health (IOSH) and also the International Institute of Risk and Safety Management (IIRSM). Like North American safety professional programs, to achieve these grades the applicant must be professionally qualified and have relevant experience. Continuing professional development (CPD) is also a strong requirement of both memberships. IIRSM also offer Recognised Safety Professional (not to be confused with 'registered safety practitioners' of OSHCR) these honorary post nominal letters given by IIRSM to recognised safety practitioners.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53988907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53988907", "title": "Chili thread", "text": "Chili thread\n\nSil-gochu (), often translated as chili threads, chilli threads, or chili pepper threads, is a traditional Korean food garnish made with chili peppers.\n\n"}
{"id": "25168936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25168936", "title": "Clinical Systems and Networks", "text": "Clinical Systems and Networks\n\nA healthcare system is a set of activities with a common set of objectives. For each objective it is necessary to choose one, or more, criteria that can be used to measure progress or the lack of it. The dataset of criteria provides another of the essential elements of a system – the feedback loop.\n\n“ The concept of a production system as a socio-technical system designates a general field of study concerned with the interrelations of the technical and socio-psychological organization of industrial production systems. … The concept of a socio-technical system arose from the consideration that any production system requires both a technological organization – equipment and process layout – and a work organization relating to each other those who carry out the necessary tasks. The technological demands place limits on the type of work organization possible, but a work organization has social and psychological properties of its own that are independent of technology….. A socio-technical system must also satisfy the financial conditions of the industry of which it is a part. It must have economic validity. It has in fact social, technological and economic dimensions, all of which are interdependent but all of which have independent values of their own.’ ” (Rice: Productivity and Social Organization.)\nSource: Trist, E.L., Higgin, G.W., Murray, H., Pollock, A.B. (1963) Organizational Choice. Capabilities of groups at the coal face under changing technologies. The loss, re-discovery and transformation of a work tradition. Tavistock Publications. Tavistock Institute of Human Relations, (p.6).\n\n“What distinguishes systems is that it is a subject which can talk about the other subjects. It is not a discipline to be put in the same set as the others, it is a meta-discipline whose subject matter can be applied within virtually any other discipline.”\nSource: Checkland, P. (1993) Systems Thinking, Systems Practice. John Wiley & Sons, Chichester. (p. 5).\n\n“The systems paradigm is concerned with wholes and their properties. It is holistic, but not in the usual (vulgar) sense of taking in the whole; systems concepts are concerned with wholes and their hierarchical arrangement rather than with the whole.”\nSource: Checkland, P. (1993) Systems Thinking, Systems Practice. John Wiley & Sons, Chichester. (p. 13-14).\n\n“Set of interdependent elements interacting to achieve a common aim. These elements may be both human and nonhuman (equipment, technologies, etc.).”\nSource: Kohn, L.T., Corrigan, J.M., Donaldson, M.S. (Eds). Committee on Quality of Health Care in America, Institute of Medicine. (2000) To Err is Human. Building a Safer Health System. National Academy Press, Washington. (p. 211)\n\n“A system is defined as a network of interdependent components that work together to try to accomplish a specific aim.”\nSource: Nelson, E.C., Batalden, P.B., Godfrey, M.M. (2007) Quality by Design. A Clinical Microsystems Approach. John Wiley & Sons Inc. (p. 230)\n\n“A system is an integrated series of parts with a clearly defined goal.”\nSource: Dennis, P. (2007) Lean Production Simplified. A plan language guide to the world’s most powerful production system. Productivity Press, New York. (p. 15).\n\n“Webster’s New Collegiate Dictionary defines a system as ‘an assemblage of objects united by some form of regular interaction of interdependence’. Like the solar system, the nervous system or the operating system of your computer, this is the sense in which I use the word ‘system’ in this book.”\nSource: Lovelock, J. (2009) The Vanishing Face of Gaia. A final warning. Allen Lane, Penguin (p. 168)\n\nThe setting of objectives and the choice of criteria relating to the healthcare provided for a condition such as Parkinson Disease or Renal Failure has a number of benefits, notably\n\n• It allows a patient to compare the performance of that aspect of healthcare that is of most importance to them \n• It allows those who allocate resources to judge the value that would be added if additional resources were to be invested in that system, at the expense of systems focussed on other health problems.\n\nIt is necessary to have closed systems like hospitals and primary care services to employ staff and ensure money is administered with probity but they are all parts of an open system of healthcare and changes imposed in any one closed system will have unintended consequences elsewhere through a feedback mechanism that may, or may not, be predictable. Traditional approaches have sought to manage health problems by tighter control of organisations which cover a wide range of health problems, hospitals and community care for example with patients being referred to the former and discharged to the latter. This two-box approach has many weaknesses, implying, for example, that a hospital is not a community service. Another approach is to present different levels of care in the form of a Venn diagram.\nFor serious, acute problems, a fractured femur for example the spectrum of the relative contributions of the different sectors of care, are consistent from between countries and within a country. Self care is minimal, primary care by an ambulance service brief, and most care is provided in secondary care, with tertiary care being needed for the person who has multiple injuries in addition to the fractured femur and needs the services of a trauma center. For chronic conditions, however the distribution of care is often sub optimal because the indications for moving from one level of care to another are often unclear and may be influenced by emotional and, apparently, irrational factors. \nEven if the number of patients in each part of the spectrum is correct there will be some\n\n• Receiving care that is more intensive than they need\n• Receiving care that is less intensive that they need\n\nBoth groups reduce the value derived from the resources invested\n"}
{"id": "26955201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26955201", "title": "Clinical trials unit", "text": "Clinical trials unit\n\nClinical trials units (CTU) are specialised biomedical research units which design, centrally coordinate and analyse clinical trials and other studies. Some CTUs specialise in different methodologies, such as randomised controlled trials, cluster randomised trials, surgical trials, and health services research. Some specialise in one disease type, whereas others are generic units. Some CTUs focus on specific phases and types of clinical trials; others conduct all phases and types of trial.\n\nThe UKCRC evaluates CTUs in the UK and they may be given either Full or Provisional CTU registration status. All Registered CTUs are required to provide evidence that their work is of high quality by demonstrating (1) experience of coordinating multi-centre randomised controlled trials or other well-designed studies, (2) a presence of a core team of expert staff to develop studies, (3) a presence of robust quality assurance systems and processes to meet appropriate regulations and legislation, and (4) evidence of longer-term viability of capacity for trials coordination and the development/maintenance of a trials portfolio.\n\nProvisional CTUs tend to be newer and evolving CTUs and have not yet built a track record but have relevant expertise and experience that is worth building on. Evaluation criteria for Provisional Registration were developed for CTUs that did not meet the criteria for Full Registration status, but that are working towards possessing sufficient expertise to enable Full Registration in the future.\n\nMedicinal clinical trials are only a subset of all trials undertaken by Registered Clinical Trials Units in the academic sector. Such Units may also specialise in surgical trials, therapy trials and other complex interventions such as educational interventions.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, clinical trials of medicines are approved by the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency. This it does through its Clinical Trials Unit, which enforces standards through the Good Clinical Practice Inspectorate. In 2007, a revised version of Phase I clinical trial regulations was issued following the heavily publicized multiple organ failures in several volunteers for a study of TGN1412.\n"}
{"id": "50641727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50641727", "title": "Demographic surveillance system", "text": "Demographic surveillance system\n\nIn the fields of demographics and public health, a demographic surveillance system (DSS), also called a health and demographic surveillance system (HDSS), gathers longitudinal health and demographic data for a dynamic cohort of the total population in a specified geographic area. An HDSS is created by first executing a census of households in the area as a baseline, followed by regular visits to each household to gather health and demographic data. The cohort is dynamic in that members are added through birth or immigration and members are subtracted through death or emigration. Tracking population migration is particularly important for understanding of HDSS data.\n\nIn developing countries, there is commonly a lack of health and demographic information at the community or population level. For instance, cause of death may be unknown for deaths occurring outside of health facilities. One approach to collecting such data is the cross-sectional Demographic and Health Surveys (DHS). HDSS provide a complement to episodic DHS by collecting longitudinally data over time, often with multiple household surveys.\n\nHDSS sites originated in the 1960s. Since then, many HDSS in developing countries have organized together in the INDEPTH network. As of 2017, INDEPTH has 47 HDSS sites following roughly 3 million people. One function of INDEPTH is to gather data across HDSS and to establish standards for data acquisition. There are other demographic and health data gathering programs similar to DSS that are not part of INDEPTH, such as the \"Sample Registration system\" in India and the \"Disease Surveillance Points system\" in China.\n\n"}
{"id": "56256126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56256126", "title": "Emergency Medicine Reform in Ukraine since 2016", "text": "Emergency Medicine Reform in Ukraine since 2016\n\nEmergency Medicine Reform in Ukraine is a part of Ukrainian Health Reform from 2016 till now. It consist of measures of the Ministry of Healthcare of Ukraine to provide high-quality and timely emergency medical care.\n\nUkraine has a German-Franco Model of Emergency Medical Service, in which an ambulance is staffed by physicians. A part of ambulances are staffed by feldshers. In Ukraine, about one third of the emergency medical teams is missing. Unfortunately young doctors don't eagerly join EMS teams. That is why the majority of doctors are those of pre-retirement age. Some ambulances are not fully equipped. Moreover, there is a lack of vehicles. Some brigades have staff without proper education.\nUS faced a somewhat similar problem around 50 years ago. United States National Academy of Sciences published an influential report \"\" in 1966. It is considered a landmark in the development of the emergency medical services system in the United States. The report concluded, in part, that both the public and government were \"insensitive to the magnitude of the problem of accidental death and injury\" in the U.S.; that the standards to which ambulance services were held were diverse and \"often low\"; and that \"most ambulances used in this country are unsuitable, have incomplete … equipment, carry inadequate supplies, and are manned by untrained attendants.\" The reforms inaugurated by the publication of \"The White Paper\" led to higher quality care provided on-scene and in-transit by trained paramedics and EMTs.\n\nActive reforming of emergency medical care was initiated right after appointment of Ulana Suprun as a head of the Ministry of Healthcare of Ukraine. There are several main areas of this reform.\n\nIn order to improve survival from the preventable causes of death, help should be brought as closer as possible to the patient. It is necessary to strengthen the whole chain of survival. There are several levels of care in pre-hospital care in Ukraine.\n\nAccording to Ukrainian legislation, there are no official terms \"Emergency medical responder\" or \"First responder\". But there is an equivalent – persons, who are obliged to provide emergency medical assistance to a person in urgent need. They are:\n\nIn particular after police reform, the National Police officers are obliged to provide emergency medical care to those who have suffered as a result of offenses, accidents, as well as to those who are in a helpless condition or that which can be dangerous to their life or health.\n\nMinistry of Healthcare of Ukraine on March 29, 2017 approved new training programs for the training of such persons, who are obliged to provide emergency medical assistance to a person in urgent need.\n\nAt the same time MOH of Ukraine introduced two new specialties of medical instructors:\nThis will standardize the teaching of relevant levels of care and attract more people to study.\n\nMOH of Ukraine is currently introducing new demands to be applied to the collection of supplies of vehicle first aid kits. In Ukraine, there are about 554 traffic accidents every day. Mortality is higher here than in other European countries. At the same time, the first-aid kit demands did not change for 20 years. New demands are based on evidence-based medicine and best westert practices. Medical supplies are mostly aimded to prevent most possible cause of death.\n\nThe \"Better Regulation Delivery Office\" research has shown that the Ukrainian information field is clogged up — about 35% of the acts are obsolete, irrelevant and ineffective.\n\nIn April 2017 Ministry of Healthcare allowed Ukrainian doctors to use international clinical guidelines in their work and, so to provide medical care according to world standards.\nPrior to this, clinical guidelines were developed based on the method of adaptation of international clinical guidelines. In some cases, they were developed based on the clinical experience of group members. Part of them is created on the old soviet evidence base. In addition, Ukrainian unified clinical guidelines may contain trade names for certain drugs. This led to the lobbying of the relevant pharmacists.\n\nWith the same order MOH of UKraine also eliminated the need for the implementation of local clinical protocols. Previously, each medical facility was forced to develop such documents. Often, they were based on sources of information of different antiquity and on the clinical experience of the developer. At the same time, they were legally much more weighty than any world guidelines. MOH has allowed each institution to translate international protocols, based on evidence-based medicine. It defines a clear list of international sources for such translation and approval.\n\nIn autumn 2017 World Health Organization, in cooperation with the Ministry of Healthcare of Ukraine, launched the \"HeRAMS Ukraine\" project.\n\nHeRAMS (Health Resources Availability Mapping System) is an electronic system for monitoring medical resources. It is a WHO tool for standardizing and assessing the availability of medical services in different countries. It is mostly used for emergency response. When conducting programs using HeRAMS, information is collected from health facilities in a specific area. The system collects information on four major contingencies related to emergencies:\nBased on the data obtained, analytical reports are made and possible measures are developed to improve the situation. Periodic monitoring is possible.\n\nAt first in Ukraine HeRAMS project was launched only in Donetsk and Lugansk regions.\n\nIn January 2017 MOH of Ukraine approved a modern military first aid kit, a military car first aid and backpacks for field medics. Their composition is developed in accordance with the Tactical Combat Casualty Care guidelines. With these means, the soldier can provide casualty care in the most frequent emergency situations. They are primarily aimed at salvation from the causes of death that can be prevented.\n\nMOH of Ukraine, together with the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine, worked out the standards of medical support of the Armed Forces at the level except big hospitals. Specialists have excluded drugs that have no proven efficiency. Each medical facility or military unit will have the same equipment and medicine, so it will be able to provide high-quality medical care.\n\nThere is a lack of medical staff in the majority of hospitals in Lugansk and Donetsk region. To improve the situation, medical volunteers from other regions are allowed by MOH order to go and work there. This will help to save not only health and lives of local people, but also soldiers, who are also often treated in these hospitals.\n\nIn 2017 MOH of Ukraine introduced two specialties —- paramedics and emergency medical technicians.\n\nIn Ukraine paramedic is a person with a level of education not lower than a junior bachelor of the field of knowledge \"Healthcare\" and the corresponding specialization. This means that after 11 years of school, in order to become a paramedic, he needs to study for another 3 years. For a person with basic 9-year education, the term of training will be 4 years.\n\nIn Ukraine paramedics provide a ALS level of care. Qualifying requirements for paramedic are higher than those for a feldsher. The paramedic training program is more focused on providing emergency medical care. They have more advanced requirements for professional skills in this area. In September 2018, there will be the first set for this specialty in medical colleges.\n\nFeldshers working in the emergency medical teams will be able to become paramedics after undergoing advanced training to paramedic level. The Ministry of Health has defined a transitional period of 5 years for training and certification of emergency medical feldshers to the paramedic level. By this time, they can work as part of the EMS teams.\n\nThe introduction of paramedics concerns only the emergency teams. Feldsher will continue to work in feldsher-obstetrician stations in rural areas.\n\nDuring the transition period emergency medicine physicians will still work in ambulances. However, at the moment, physicians often go to simple cases that do not meet their high qualifications. At the end of the transition period, physicians will be engaged only in some severe cases, as it is in many developed countries. Most of them will get a job in the emergency departments. There, physicians have more opportunities to use their knowledge and skills.\n\nNow in Ukraine ambulances are driven by ambulance drivers. But as in many countries in the past, in Ukraine these employees are not trained in emergency care. That is why new specialty of emergency medical technician was introduced. Ambulance drivers will continue to work during a 5-year transition period. During this time, everyone should be trained and certified for the level of emergency medical technician.\nNew emergency medical technician profession corresponds to EMT-Basic in USA.\nIn Ukraine EMT according to the assigned duties:\n\nThe minimum requirements for emergency medical technician in Ukraine are:\nTerm of training to become EMT lasts about a month, which includes studying in classes and practical training of skills.\n\nWith the participation of British and American physician, a six-day training course \"Ukrainian Trauma Life Support\" (UTLS) was developed. It is intended for the upgrading of doctors providing emergency medical care to the injured patients: surgeons, anesthesiologists, traumatologists, emergency medicine doctors, etc.\n\nThe program takes into account the main requirements of the relevant international counterparts, such as \"PHTLS\", \"ALS\", \"ATLS\". The course consists of seminars, workshops and simulations. It is intended to systematize the approach to the injured, to work out team work and skills of effective communication.\n\nIn October 2017, at the NMAPE Academic Council meeting was discussed and approved the curriculum and the program of the on-site training cycle of thematic improvement: \"Supporting life during injuries. Ukrainian program».\n\nIn most oblasts of Ukraine, raions or city has its own emergency medical dispatch center. They coordinate teams only of their own station and in usual situation send them only to their area of their responsibility. So, if accident takes place near the \"border\" of neighboring area, the dispatcher won't be able to see it. Consequently, he won't be able to send an ambulance for help, even if a few are located close nearby. In some raions, calls are taken by doctors or nontrained nurses. Centralized dispatch centers which take calls and coordinate EMS teams of the entire oblast exist only in several regional centers.\n\nWith the introduction of modern centralized dispatch centers, specially trained dispatchers in the oblast level will take calls from all the region. Using the dispatch protocols, a dispatcher will determine if there is an urgent necessity to send an ambulance or not. Also, all ambulances will be equipped with GPS trackers. Using the modern system will allow to track the call location. So, the dispatcher will see the location of all places of call and EMS teams in real time on the interactive map. He will be able to direct the nearest crew to the patient or victim, regardless of which station it belongs to. This will allow to provide timely medical care even with limited resources.\n\nAn emergency department (ED) is a medical treatment facility specializing in emergency medicine, the acute care of patients who present without prior appointment; either by their own means or by that of an ambulance. The emergency department is usually found in a hospital or other primary care center.\n\nCurrently, most hospitals in Ukraine have reception departments (, ). There are usually no beds for patients' stay and often there are no conditions for providing high quality care. Often there is no physician for full day or in different days there are on duty physicians from different specialities, who can not provide proper emergency care.\n\nAccording to the Healthcare Reform, an emergency department should be a standard for a multi-profile hospital, which provides care in the case of emergency. Only specially trained doctors of emergency medicine will work in ED. So they can better use their knowledge and skills to help patients. It will also help to bring qualitative care to the patient.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30196262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30196262", "title": "Enterocele", "text": "Enterocele\n\nAn enterocele or enterocoele is a protrusion of the small intestines and peritoneum into the vaginal canal. \nIt may be treated transvaginally or by laparoscopy.\n\nAn enterocele may also obstruct the rectum, leading to symptoms of obstructed defecation. Enteroceles can form after treatment for gynegological cancers.\n\n"}
{"id": "57292984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57292984", "title": "Epidemiology in Country Practice", "text": "Epidemiology in Country Practice\n\nEpidemiology in Country Practice is a book by William Pickles (1885–1969), a rural general practitioner (GP) physician in Wensleydale, North Yorkshire, England, first published in 1939. The book reports on how careful observations can lead to correlations between transmission of infective disease between families, farms and villages.\n\nIt contains the detailed observational studies of a 1928 epidemic of catarrhal jaundice and a 1929 epidemic of Bornholm disease which were published in the \"British Medical Journal\" \"(BMJ)\" in 1930 and 1933 respectively.\n\nWilliam Pickles first realised the possibilities for epidemiological studies for a GP after he read James Mackenzie's \"The Principles of Diagnosis and Treatment in Heart Affections\" in the 1920s. \n\nWith the assistance of his wife Gertie, who kept the charts, Pickles recorded his observations on a 1928 epidemic of catarrhal jaundice and a 1929 epidemic of Bornholm Disease in his district. His findings were published in the \"British Medical Journal\" in 1930 and 1933 respectively and in 1935 he presented them at the Royal Society of Medicine. The work was praised by Major Greenwood who wrote that Pickles's work would mark a \"new era in epidemiology\". His observations led to new understandings of the transmission of infective disease within families, farms and villages.\n\n\"Epidemiology in Country Practice\" contains Pickles's observational studies and a number of articles previously published in medical journals, including the detailed observational studies of the 1928 epidemic of jaundice and the 1929 epidemic of Bornholm disease. The book has been described as more of an essay on epidemiology than a book filled with masses of data.\n\nMost of the research was done between 1929 and 1939. From 1937, in order to work on the book, Pickles kept evening surgeries \"to a minimum and often there were no patients at all\". He methodically reported patterns of prevalent diseases in his area; however, his data collection and publications lacked the consent processes now considered necessary to avoid identification of individuals afflicted by epidemics, particularly in small communities where recognition of persons is deemed easier. Pickles was well acquainted with the eight villages he looked after, and once, as he looked down upon Wensleydale from the top of a hill, realised that he knew everyone in the village and most on first-name basis.\n\nThe book begins with a personal appeal by Pickles for GPs to consider the importance of observations, followed by eight chapters that cover cases such as \"influenza, measles, scarlet fever, whooping-cough, and mumps\", as a well as jaundice and myalgia. One story is that of a \"gypsy\" who accompanied her sick husband into the village in a caravan. Her husband was suffering from typhoid and Pickles was able to trace the source of the disease to a faulty water pump that the wife used to wash her laundry. In the book, he compares the case to the work of one of his heroes, William Budd, who carried out similar observations.\n\nThe book also describes an epidemic of catarrhal jaundice that resulted in 250 cases out of a population of almost 6,000, many of which were children. The exact incubation period was not known and ranged from 3 to 40 days. After two years of keeping records and with assistance from the Ministry of Health, Pickles was able to show that the incubation period was 26–35 days. He cross-referenced the evidence with smaller studies in neighbouring villages and in one case was able to trace 13 infections to a single country maid who was determined to attend a fete despite Pickles attending to her in her sickbed the same morning. One of the cases was another young woman and her male friend who, according to his (the man's) sister, often went \"in the back door in the evenings, and helps her wash up\", causing Pickles to observe that \"studies in epidemiology sometimes reveal romances.\"\n\nThe book was first published by John Wright & Sons of Bristol in 1939. It had a preface by Major Greenwood, professor of epidemiology and vital statistics at the University of London. In April 1941, during the Second World War, the entire stock of the book, unbound sheets and the type were completely destroyed by enemy action but such was the demand for the book that in 1949 it was reissued in virtually identical form.\n\nIn 1970, a limited edition was published with profits going to the Royal College of General Practitioners (RCGP) appeal. The book was subsequently reprinted by Devonshire Press of Torquay in 1972 and in later editions by the RCGP (1984: ).\n\nThe book was described by John Horder in 1969 as a \"classic\", that \"makes it all sound too easy and one wonders why no one had thought of it all before\". Pickles's obituary in the \"British Medical Journal\" in 1969 declared that it had \"received excellent notices\" and in 2004, J.A. Reid portrayed it as \"a seminal book that has been read and assessed during past decades by many public health students and practitioners\". Later, RCGP president Denis Pereira Gray described it as \"a masterpiece recognised throughout the world\" and that practice-based research should be modelled on Pickles's thorough and accurate recording. \n\nThe book facilitated the link between research and primary care, resulting in the modern expansion of surveillance practices for improvements in public health. In addition, it revealed that general practitioners could carry out \"world class research\" in the community.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44272734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44272734", "title": "European Federation of Psychiatric Trainees", "text": "European Federation of Psychiatric Trainees\n\nThe European Federation of Psychiatric Trainees (EFPT) is a non-profit organization for European national psychiatric trainees. It is a federation of the national psychiatric training bodies of about 35 European nations.\n\nThe governing body of the EFPT is the General Assembly, which meets annually.\n\nEFPT produces statements that form the basis of the EFPT's work and are communicated to partner organizations.\n\nThe EFPT led several research projects about :\nIt promotes a positive image of psychiatry with some videos targeting stigmatization .\n"}
{"id": "2437974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2437974", "title": "Food industry", "text": "Food industry\n\nThe food industry is a complex, global collective of diverse businesses that supplies most of the food consumed by the world's population. Only subsistence farmers, those who survive on what they grow, and hunter-gatherers can be considered outside the scope of the modern food industry.\n\nThe food Industry includes:\n\nIt is challenging to find an inclusive way to cover all aspects of food production and sale. The UK Food Standards Agency describes it thus:\n\nThe Economic Research Service of the USDA uses the term \"food system\" to describe the same thing:\n\nAgriculture is the process of producing food, feeding products, fiber and other desired products by the cultivation of certain plants and the raising of domesticated animals (livestock). The practice of agriculture is also known as \"farming\". Scientists, inventors, and others devoted to improving farming methods and implements are also said to be engaged in agriculture. 1 in 3 people worldwide are employed in agriculture, yet it only contributes 3% to global GDP.\n\nAgronomy is the science and technology of producing and using plants for food, fuel, fibre, and land reclamation. Agronomy encompasses work in the areas of plant genetics, plant physiology, meteorology, and soil science. Agronomy is the application of a combination of sciences. Agronomists today are involved with many issues including producing food, creating healthier food, managing environmental impact of agriculture, and extracting energy from plants.\n\nFood processing includes the methods and techniques used to transform raw ingredients into food for human consumption. Food processing takes clean, harvested or slaughtered and butchered components and uses them to produce marketable food products. There are several different ways in which food can be produced.\n\nOne-off production: This method is used when customers make an order for something to be made to their own specifications, for example a wedding cake. The making of one-off products could take days depending on how intricate the design is.\n\nBatch production: This method is used when the size of the market for a product is not clear, and where there is a range within a product line. A certain number of the same goods will be produced to make up a batch or run, for example a bakery may bake a limited number of cupcakes. This method involves estimating consumer demand.\n\nMass production: This method is used when there is a mass market for a large number of identical products, for example chocolate bars, ready meals and canned food. The product passes from one stage of production to another along a production line.\n\nJust-in-time (JIT) (production): This method of production is mainly used in restaurants. All components of the product are available in-house and the customer chooses what they want in the product. It is then prepared in a kitchen, or in front of the buyer as in sandwich delicatessens, pizzerias, and sushi bars.\n\nThe food industry has a large influence on consumerism. Organizations, such as The American Academy of Family Physicians (AAFP), have been criticized for accepting monetary donations from companies within the food industry, such as Coca-Cola. These donations have been criticized for creating a conflict of interest and favoring an interest such as financial gains.\n\nSince World War II, agriculture in the United States and the entire national food system in its entirety has been characterized by models that focus on monetary profitability at the expense of social and environmental integrity. Regulations exist to protect consumers and somewhat balance this economic orientation with public interests for food quality, food security, food safety, animal well-being, environmental protection and health.\n\nA vast global cargo network connects the numerous parts of the industry. These include suppliers, manufacturers, warehousers, retailers and the end consumers. Wholesale markets for fresh food products have tended to decline in importance in urbanizing countries, including Latin America and some Asian countries as a result of the growth of supermarkets, which procure directly from farmers or through preferred suppliers, rather than going through markets.\n\nThe constant and uninterrupted flow of product from distribution centers to store locations is a critical link in food industry operations. Distribution centers run more efficiently, throughput can be increased, costs can be lowered, and manpower better utilized if the proper steps are taken when setting up a material handling system in a warehouse.\n\nWith worldwide urbanization, food buying is increasingly removed from food production. During the 20th century, the supermarket became the defining retail element of the food industry. There, tens of thousands of products are gathered in one location, in continuous, year-round supply.\n\nFood preparation is another area where the change in recent decades has been dramatic. Today, two food industry sectors are in apparent competition for the retail food dollar. The grocery industry sells fresh and largely raw products for consumers to use as ingredients in home cooking. The food service industry by contrast offers prepared food, either as finished products, or as partially prepared components for final \"assembly\". Restaurants, cafes, bakeries and mobile food trucks provide opportunities for consumers to purchase food.\n\nModern food production is defined by sophisticated technologies. These include many areas. Agricultural machinery, originally led by the tractor, has practically eliminated human labor in many areas of production. Biotechnology is driving much change, in areas as diverse as agrochemicals, plant breeding and food processing. Many other types of technology are also involved, to the point where it is hard to find an area that does not have a direct impact on the food industry. As in other fields, computer technology is also a central force, with computer networks and specialized software providing the support infrastructure to allow global movement of the myriad components involved.\n\nAs consumers grow increasingly removed from food production, the role of product creation, advertising, and publicity become the primary vehicles for information about food. With processed food as the dominant category, marketers have almost infinite possibilities in product creation. Of the food advertised to children on television 73% is fast or convenience foods.\n\nUntil the last 100 years, agriculture was labor-intensive. Farming was a common occupation and millions of people were involved in food production. Farmers, largely trained from generation to generation, carried on the family business. That situation has changed dramatically today. In America in 1870, 70-80 percent of the US population was employed in agriculture. , less than 2 percent of the population is directly employed in agriculture, and about 80% of the population lives in cities. The food industry as a complex whole requires an incredibly wide range of skills. Several hundred occupation types exist within the food industry.\n\n\nGeneral:\n\nBook, film, TV and web-related exposés and critiques of the food industry:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4545160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4545160", "title": "Fundal height", "text": "Fundal height\n\nFundal height, or McDonald's rule, is a measure of the size of the uterus used to assess fetal growth and development during pregnancy. It is measured from the top of the mother's uterus to the top of the mother's pubic symphysis. Fundal height, when expressed in centimeters, roughly corresponds to gestational age in weeks between 16 and 36 weeks for a vertex fetus. When a tape measure is unavailable, finger widths are used to estimate centimeter (week) distances from a corresponding anatomical landmark. However, landmark distances from the pubic symphysis are highly variable depending on body type. In clinical practice, recording the actual fundal height measurement from the palpable top of the uterus to the superior edge of the pubic symphysis is standard practice beginning around 20 weeks gestation.\n\nMost caregivers will record their patient's fundal height on every prenatal visit. Measuring the fundal height can be an indicator of proper fetal growth and amniotic fluid development.\n\nKnowledge of gestational age may impact how the height is measured.\n\nA shorter measure can happen for one of the following reasons:\n\nOn the other side, a longer measure can be caused by:\n\nAs a pregnancy approaches its end, the fundal height will become less accurate.\n"}
{"id": "21669631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21669631", "title": "Genomatix", "text": "Genomatix\n\nGenomatix GmbH is a computational biology company headquartered in Munich, Germany, with a seat of business in Ann Arbor, Michigan, U.S.A.\n\nGenomatix was founded in 1997 by Dr. Thomas Werner as a spin-off from the Helmholtz Zentrum München (formerly \"GSF - National German Research Institute for Environment and Health\"). Helmholtz Zentrum Munich is part of the Helmholtz Association of German Research Centres. Genomatix pioneered the analysis and understanding of eukaryotic gene regulation.\n\nGenomatix offers integrated solutions and databases for genome annotation and regulation analysis.\n\nGenomatix product portfolio contains solutions for:\n\n• Literature and pathway mining\n• Transcription factor analysis\n• Genome annotation integrating a wide variety of transcript sources and a special focus on regulatory regions\n• Analysis technology for high throughput genomic technologies (microarrays and next generation sequencing)\n\nLiterature mining\nLitInspector is a literature search tool providing gene and signal transduction pathway mining within NCBI's PubMed database.\n\nPathway mining\nGePS\nBiblioSphere\n\nPersonalized medicine developed to a major field for Genomatix. Genomatix is involved in several projects and international conferences e.g. 5th Santorini Conference - \"Functional Genomics towards personalized health care\" \n\nSince 2008 Genomatix has strongly focused on Next Generation Sequencing data analysis. Because of the large amount of data and the need for high-end computing power, Genomatix deploys its solutions as in-house installations (hardware software bundle)\n\nTwo systems are available:\n\n1. The Genomatix Mining Station (GMS) is based on a proprietary genomic pattern recognition paradigm, or GenomeThesaurus, which allows for input of raw sequence reads plus optional quality files from any deep sequencing hardware. It provides ultra fast mapping of sequences of any length (starting from 8bp) with no practical limits on the number of point mutations and/or insertions and deletions that can be taken into account during the mapping process. Depending on the nature of the experiment, the GMS can provide SNP detection and genotyping, copy number analysis, and small RNA analysis. For ChIPseq data, the GMS delivers clustering and peak finding, and performs automated binding pattern identification. For RNAseq experiments, normalized expression values are calculated at the exon and transcript level. A special GenomeThesaurus is also provided for potential splice junctions, which allows for splice junction analysis and identification of new transcriptional units.\n\nFor genomic re-sequencing and newly sequenced genomes, a de-novo assembly will be provided.\n\n2. The Genomatix Genome Analyzer (GGA) delivers downstream software tools and databases for the deep biological analysis of data coming from the GMS. It allows for easy integration and visualization in the terabytes of background annotation of the ElDorado genome database. GGA extensively annotates genomic coordinates and surrounding areas derived by the GMS or any other mapping procedure. Clustering and peak finding, analysis for phylogenetic conservation, large scale correlation analysis with annotated genomic elements, meta-analysis of data correlation between different experiments, pathway mining for groups of identified genes, transcription factor binding site (TFBS) analysis ( identification, over-representation, binding partner analysis, framework identification, phylogenetic conservation, regulatory SNP effects) and much more are all processes carried out on the GGA.\n\nWith the GGA and GMS Genomatix delivers the worldwide first integrative data analysis platform for Next Generation Sequencing analysis with custom workflows tailored towards specific needs.\n\nFurther developments will be the link-up of data from clinical sources and medical applications. Pilot projects were already started within Genomatix’ consulting platform linking genotype and phenotype information.\n\n"}
{"id": "32302631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32302631", "title": "Global cuisine", "text": "Global cuisine\n\nA global cuisine is a cuisine that is practiced around the world. A cuisine is a characteristic style of cooking practices and traditions, often associated with a specific region, country or culture. To become a global cuisine, a local, regional or national cuisine must spread around the world, its food served worldwide. There have been significant improvements and advances during the last century in food preservation, storage, shipping and production, and today many countries, cities and regions have access to their traditional cuisines and many other global cuisines.\n\nJapanese cuisine has spread throughout the world, and representative dishes such as sushi and ramen, among others are popular. In many cases, Japanese food is adapted and reinvented to fit the taste buds of the local populace. For instance, the California roll is a popular dish in the United States that is a modification of the Japanese makizushi, a type of sushi. In South Korea, both the Japanese curry and the ramen have been imported and popularized primarily in the form of instant food. Tonkatsu and tempura, which are derived from Western food, are now considered and marketed as uniquely Japanese, as well as the Japanese curry, which derived from the Indian curry.\n\nIn many countries including the United States, United Kingdom, Philippines, and Brazil, Japanese restaurants have become popular. Among these countries, Hong Kong, Taiwan, China, Singapore, Thailand and Indonesia are key consumers, according to recent research.\n\nThe market of Japanese ingredients is also growing, with brands such as Ajinomoto, Kikkoman, Nissin and Kewpie mayonnaise, are establishing production base in other Asian countries, such as China, Thailand and Indonesia.\n\nChinese cuisine has become widespread throughout many other parts of the world — from Asia to the Americas, Australia, Western Europe and Southern Africa. In recent years, connoisseurs of Chinese cuisine have also sprouted in Eastern Europe and South Asia. American Chinese cuisine and Canadian Chinese food are popular examples of local varieties. Local ingredients would be adopted while maintaining the style and preparation technique.\n\nTraditional Chinese cuisines include Anhui, Cantonese, Fujian, Hunan, Jiangsu, Shandong, Szechuan, and Zhejiang, all of which are defined and termed per the respective regions within China where they developed. These regional cuisines are sometimes referred to as the \"eight culinary traditions of China.\" A number of different styles contribute to Chinese cuisine, but perhaps the best known and most influential are the Szechuan, Shandong, Jiangsu and Guangdong cuisines. These styles are distinctive from one another due to factors such as available resources, climate, geography, history, cooking techniques and lifestyle. Many Chinese traditional regional cuisines rely on basic methods of food preservation such as drying, salting, pickling and fermentation.\n\nIndian cuisine has contributed to shaping the history of international relations; the spice trade between India and Europe is often cited by historians as the primary catalyst for Europe's Age of Discovery. Spices were bought from India and traded around Europe and Asia. It has also had the created influence on international cuisines, especially those from Southeast Asia, the British Isles and the Caribbean. The use of Indian spices, herbs and vegetable produce have helped shaped the cuisines of many countries around the world.\n\nIndian cuisine consists of the foods and dishes of India (and to some extent neighboring countries), is characterized by the extensive use of various Indian spices and vegetables grown across India, herbs, vegetables and fruits, and is also known for the widespread practice of vegetarianism in Indian society. Indian regional cuisine is primarily categorized at the regional level, but also at provincial levels. Cuisine differences derive from various local cultures, geographical locations (whether a region is close to the sea, desert or the mountains), and economics. Indian cuisine is also seasonal, and utilizes fresh produce.\n\nThe cuisine of India is very diverse with each state having an entirely different food platter. The development of these cuisines have been shaped by Hindu and Jain beliefs, in particular vegetarianism which is a common dietary trend in Indian society. There has also been Islamic influence from the years of Mughal and Delhi Sultanate rule, as well as Persian interactions on North Indian and Deccani cuisine. Indian cuisine has been and is still evolving, as a result of the nation's cultural interactions with other societies. Historical incidents such as foreign invasions, trade relations and colonialism have also played an important role in introducing certain food types and eating habits to the country. For instance, potato, a staple of North Indian diet was brought to India by the Portuguese, who also introduced chiles and breadfruit among other things. Spices were bought from India and traded in exchange for rubber and opium from Malacca. It has also influenced other cuisines across the world, especially those from Southeast Asia, the British Isles and the Caribbean.\n\nThe nowadays Eastern Europe cuisine encompass types of food from all around the world. Check the links below for more specific information on Western Europe cuisine:\n\n\nAmerican cuisine is a style of food preparation originating from the United States of America. European colonization of the Americas yielded the introduction of a number of ingredients and cooking styles to the latter. The various styles continued expanding well into the 19th and 20th centuries, proportional to the influx of immigrants from many foreign nations; such influx developed a rich diversity in food preparation throughout the country. Native American cuisine includes all food practices of the indigenous peoples of the Americas. Modern-day native peoples retain a rich body of traditional foods, some of which have become iconic of present-day Native American social gatherings.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19222558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19222558", "title": "HIV/AIDS in El Salvador", "text": "HIV/AIDS in El Salvador\n\nHIV/AIDS in El Salvador has a less than 1 percent prevalence of the adult population reported to be HIV-positive, El Salvador and therefore there is a low-HIV-prevalence country, but the virus remains a significant threat in high-risk communities, such as commercial sex workers (CSWs) and men who have sex with men (MSM).\n\nOverall prevalence has increased since the first case was detected in 1984. Since that time, 18,282 HIV/AIDS cases have been reported in the country. Incidence appears to have declined since 2004, but there is a fear that because of the lack of an effective monitoring system, many HIV/AIDS cases are not reported (according to a UNAIDS May 2006 report, 40 to 50 percent of cases are under-reported). Heterosexual sex is the main route of HIV transmission in El Salvador, accounting for 79 percent of HIV cases in the country. The epidemic is predominantly in urban areas and is becoming increasingly feminized as the percent of women with HIV rises. Although prevalence is 3 percent among sex workers, it is as high as 16 percent in specific areas, such as Puerto de Acajutla. Prevalence is also high among MSM (17.8 percent, the highest in Central America). One study from 2002 reported by UNAIDS in 2007 demonstrated that infection levels among MSM in El Salvador were 22 times higher than among the general population. Moreover, stigma and discrimination (S&D) against MSM lead to hidden behaviors, and, as a result, there is probably considerable under-reporting of the epidemic among this group. The National AIDS Program (NAP) estimates that 51 percent of reported AIDS cases occur in the 25- to 34-year-old age group. Although estimates vary, about 85 percent of infections are sexually transmitted, of which 4 percent are cases of homosexual transmission and 3 percent bisexual transmission. According to the national sexually transmitted disease (STD) and HIV/AIDS program, the range for new HIV/AIDS infections per day is between 4.5 and 5.5 cases. Mortality due to AIDS represented the seventh-leading cause of death in hospitals for the population as a whole and the leading cause in the 20 to 59 age group. El Salvador contributes 18.4 percent of all cases in the Central America subregion and has the third-largest number of cases behind Honduras and Guatemala.\n\nFactors that put El Salvador at risk of a larger epidemic include early initiation of sex, limited knowledge or practice of preventive practices among people engaging in high-risk behaviors, and the country’s large mobile population. The National Health Survey conducted in 2002 and 2003 indicated that 32 percent of females aged 15 to 19 were already sexually active. Knowledge about HIV/AIDS remains somewhat limited, as evidenced by one multicenter study in which 40 percent of MSM had false beliefs about the modes of transmission of HIV. Among sex workers, an estimated 90 percent do not use condoms with regular partners. Compounding these issues are S&D toward HIV-infected individuals and at-risk groups, which can deter people from getting tested and receiving adequate support if they have the disease.\n\nAlthough the Government of El Salvador began initial HIV/AIDS prevention activities as early as 1988, stigma surrounding HIV persists. In 2001, El Salvador passed legislation protecting patients’ rights and guaranteeing access to treatment.\nEl Salvador’s NAP was established in 1987, and it continues to work closely with various state ministries, civil society, the private sector, and nongovernmental organizations (NGOs). The country is now implementing its fourth HIV/AIDS strategic plan for 2005 to 2010. The new plan aims to improve the population’s knowledge about HIV/AIDS, strengthen preventive and protective measures, and extend coverage of HIV/AIDS services for vulnerable groups.\n\nFollowing the worldwide Three Ones principles, El Salvador formed the National AIDS Commission (CONASIDA) to act as the country’s AIDS coordinating mechanism. One of the achievements of CONASIDA was the development of the 2005 National Policy for Comprehensive HIV Care. Important government activities include signing the Declaration of San Salvador for fighting AIDS in Central America and the Caribbean and the creation of an HIV/AIDS/sexually transmitted infection (STI) prevention program for mobile populations. The latter is particularly important because El Salvador is a corridor for migrants. El Salvador is also implementing the Regional HIV/STI Plan for the Health Sector 2006-2015 of the Pan American Health Organization.\n\nFree HIV testing began in El Salvador in 1997, and in January 2002, the Ministry of Health (MOH) began to offer antiretroviral treatment (ART). By December 2006, 174 health facilities and two mobile clinics offered HIV testing for free, and 3,447 people were receiving ART without charge. In cooperation with other countries in the region, the Salvadoran Government negotiated with major pharmaceutical manufacturers and received price reductions on antiretroviral drugs. Currently, 39 percent of people infected with HIV who need ART receive it. In 2003, the country began a national program called Make the Decision to Wait to teach adolescents about safer sexual behaviors and to abstain from sex, and in 2005, two major campaigns were launched to combat stigma against people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA).\n\nPresident Elías Antonio Saca González declared June 27, 2007, National HIV Testing Day. With the support of the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), the regional NGO Pan American Social Marketing Organization (PASMO) managed the event’s publicity campaign. The campaign resulted in 54,461 tests, exceeding the 40,000 target. Nearly three times the normal monthly average of tests done in all of 2006 were conducted on this one day. The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria is also currently supporting the MOH and the United Nations Development Program to develop a strategy for fighting HIV/AIDS in vulnerable populations to help poverty reduction. Despite these efforts, improved monitoring and surveillance and campaigns to raise awareness are needed.\n\n"}
{"id": "32020054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32020054", "title": "Healthcare transport", "text": "Healthcare transport\n\nHealthcare Transport is the systematic process by which patient- and business-critical materials, such as patient specimens, pharmaceuticals, supplies and medical records are transported to and from multiple touch points within healthcare organizations. Each year, 83% of adults and 90% of children in the United States have contact with a health care professional. In total, these events add to greater than 1.1 billion ambulatory care visits to physician offices, hospital outpatient departments and emergency rooms.\n\nAccording to a recent article by Dr. Robert Handfield, a true healthcare transport partner supports healthcare organizational business objectives beyond transactional pickups and deliveries to address cost efficiencies, centralization, standardization, error reduction, technology maximization, management reporting for strategic decision-making, system connectivity and analytics for a platform for growth.\n\nThe daily movement of these critical materials directly impacts an organization’s ability to deliver optimal care.\n"}
{"id": "44088445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44088445", "title": "Helga – Vom Werden des menschlichen Lebens", "text": "Helga – Vom Werden des menschlichen Lebens\n\nHelga – Vom Werden des menschlichen Lebens () is a 1967 West German sex education documentary and the first film of the \"Helga\" trilogy. Its release in West Germany was followed by international releases to many European countries, the British Commonwealth and the United States. It became one of the greatest box-office successes of West German cinema, viewed by forty million people in West Germany and internationally. In the first months of its showing in West Germany the audience had reached four million people. The film featured scenes of childbirth which were the first to be shown publicly in Germany. \"Helga\" was the first in a series of educational films which were considered \"relatively permissive\" at the time. The film was considered a part of an \"enlightenment wave\" which was undertaken by the West German Federal government at the time. In 1968, in France, the film was viewed by five million people. In Grenoble alone it is reported that 60,000 viewers had seen it in the first days of its screening, out of a population of 150,000. In Tours, the film played to full-houses for three consecutive weeks. The film used animation, stock footage and microphotography to depict the stages of life from conception to childbirth. \n\nThe film was produced between 1966-1967 by Rinco-Film in Munich for the West German Federal Ministry of Health under health minister Käte Ströbel through the German Health Museum. It documents the pregnancy of a young woman from the first visit to the doctor all the way to childbirth. Upon its release, it was classified as a documentary by the West German film classification board SPIO.\n\nThe film has been studied due to its impact on German society involving the sociopolitical implications of the intervention by the West German federal government in matters of sexual education involving the mass media as well as the curriculum they approved regarding sexual matters. The West German federal government used the film as an educational tool but also as a means to gain influence in areas such as public health and education which were traditionally under regional jurisdiction, possibly even bypassing constitutional issues governing the distribution of powers between the Federal government and the regions. Up to that time, regional authorities could veto Federal policies which were seen by them as encroaching on their cultural policies. \n\nThe success of the film when viewed by an audience of a wide and diverse demographic was analysed in terms of its influence on social thinking. Gender issues related to the film have been considered due to the fact that matters traditionally concerning privacy, intimacy and femininity, up to that point in time, were made public to a wide demographic through film and the mass media. The commercial success of the film has also been examined since it was a sex-education film without any famous actors or an elaborate plot. The film was successful in countries such as France, Italy and England which were considered \"prudish\" at the time. In Paris, 1,500 catholic priests and nuns attended a private screening of the film arranged by \"centrale catholique\". The film was also extensively covered by print media such as \"Elle\" and \"Paris Match\".\n\nThe film was a product of a political decision by the West German Federal government to educate the people regarding matters related to procreation and family planning at a time of advances in the fields of human genetics and contraception. The film gained acceptance in the young adult demographic due to their desire to be informed about issues related to family planning and childbirth as part of a consumer society in which women had to work. Educators, although worried about the impact of the violence of the scenes during childbirth upon the young, also accepted that the film could aid the understanding of husbands concerning the great pains experienced by their wives during childbirth. The film also presented a new model of informed motherhood based on knowledge and social awareness.\n\nThe film received generally positive reviews, with the conservative press leading the way. \"Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung\" described the film as \"enlightening in a comprehensive and rational manner, without hypocrisy and false shame\". The critic added: \n\nThe conservative \"Mindener Tageblatt\" commented that \"the really scientific information had been conveyed in a flawlessly proper manner without prudery and without arousing inappropriate sexual feelings\".\n\nThe left-liberal press was more critical of the film. The \"Süddeutsche Zeitung\" critic remarked that: \n\nThe press which was present at the sneak preview also criticised the film's \"ridiculous frame action\", \"heavy didactic tone\" and \"lack of contraceptive information\". Women correspondents also complained that Helga in \"her perfect makeup\" during childbirth \"did not adequately depict the pain of the anonymous woman in labour\".\n\nOther audience reactions included those of some teenage girls which were shocked by the placenta removal scenes and the subsequent revelations that the placenta was used for the production of cosmetics. The perspective and appearance of medical instruments was also criticised as reminiscent of a horror film.\n\nThe \"Protestant Film Observer\" criticised the presentation aspects of the film and the absence of information on family planning, birth control and abortion.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11755060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11755060", "title": "Illinois Eye Bank", "text": "Illinois Eye Bank\n\nThe Illinois Eye-Bank is a charitable, not-for-profit organization. Its mission is the preservation and restoration of sight through transplantation, research, education and partnership. It is a subsidiary of Midwest Eye-Banks, and operates two eye bank facilities: one in Chicago, founded in 1947, and one in Bloomington, Illinois founded in 1952.\n\nThe Eye-Bank recovers donated eye tissue, with consent, for the purposes of corneal transplantation, scleral implantation, vision research and training. Its mission is supported by volunteer efforts and charitable contributions, as well as fees to help cover the costs incurred in the provision of eye tissue recovery, evaluation and distribution services.\n\nThe Illinois Eye-Bank is accredited by the Eye Bank Association of America (EBAA), and operates in compliance with EBAA Medical Standards and U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulations.\n\n"}
{"id": "57849127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57849127", "title": "Jenette H. Bolles", "text": "Jenette H. Bolles\n\nJenette H. Bolles (1862 or 1863–1930), also known as Nettie Bolles, was an American medical doctor. She was the first woman to study and have a career as an osteopath and the first osteopath in the state of Colorado. She held a number of positions in the medical field and was a suffragette.\n\nJenette Hubbard was born on September 12, 1862 or 1863 in Douglas County, Kansas. Her parents were Martha Jenette (Merrill) Hubbard and David Hubbard. She attended public school in Olathe, Kansas before studying and graduating from Kansas State University with a B.S. degree in 1885. \n\nBolles became interested in osteopathy based upon the treatment her family received by Dr. Andrew Still. Her father had been seriously wounded by gunfire and left for dead during border skirmishes in the 1850s and Still removed the bullet and restored her father’s health. She was also satisfied later by the treatment that her mother received after she was paralyzed from a fall. She then decided to further her education by studying osteopathy. She graduated from the American School of Osteopathy in Kirksville, Missouri in 1894. In 1908, she received a master's degree from the University of Denver. She was a member of the Pi Beta Phi sorority.\n\nUpon graduation from the School of Osteopathy, she was accepted as a member of the faculty and became a professor of anatomy. She established a career as an osteopath and was the first woman to sustain her career. There were other women in her graduating class, but she was the only woman to pursue a long-standing career. She practice osteopathy, wrote about it, and taught it. She was also the first female educator in the field of osteopathy. She specialized in diseases of the urinary system, bladder, and kidneys. She was the first editor and publisher of the \"Journal of Osteopathy\".\n\nIn 1896 she moved to Denver, becoming the state's first osteopath. Bolles founded the Western Institute for Osteopathy in 1897. The school, a charter member of the Associated Colleges of Osteopathy, maintained a course of four-five month terms. She was the president and her husband was the dean. It was named Bolles Institute of Osteopathy after her husband received his degree in 1898, and then in 1900 it was named College of Osteopathy. The school was transferred in 1904 to the American School of Osteopathy in Missouri. She held state and national positions in the medical field. In 1910, she addressed the National Association at San Francisco. Bolles served on the Colorado Board of Medical Examiners, the first osteopath to do so. She was offered the appointment to the State Medical Board by Governor John F. Shafroth, but she turned it down because they did not recognize osteopathy. \n\nShe was a member of the national, state, and local osteopathic associations. She was the founding president of the American Colleges of Osteopathy in 1898. The prior year, she was the vice president of the American Association for the Advancement of Osteopathy, now known as the American Osteopathic Association (AOA). She became the first woman to be nominated for president of the AOA in 1917. She received the AOA Distinguished Service Certificate for \"Pioneering in Osteopathy as a Profession for Women\" in 1925. Bolles helped found the Osteopathic Women's National Association and served as president three times.\n\nShe married Newton A. Bolles in 1887, who was also a graduate of the School of Osteopathy and received his degree in 1898. They had two daughters, Helen Louise, born in 1898 and Ester, born in 1900.\n\nBolles was an active member of the Mother’s Congress, now called the Parent Teachers Association, and served on the Child Hygiene Committee. She served as the representative for Colorado at the final International Congress of Child Welfare in Washington, D.C.. She was a suffragette, Congregationalist, and a Republican.\n\nShe died on February 23, 1930. Her daughter Ester, her son-in-law C. Robert Starks, and grandson C. Robert Starks Jr. all became osteopaths.\n"}
{"id": "51729114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51729114", "title": "Lago dell'Antenna", "text": "Lago dell'Antenna\n\nLago dell'Antenna is an artificial lake in north-west Italy, located in the Genoa (Liguria). Concerned comunes are Urbe and Sassello.\n\nThe lake was realised blocking the Orba with a dam a couple of km upstream San Pietro d'Urbe, in oder to produce electricity in a small power plant.\nIts name comes from Monte Antenna (821 m), a mountain which overlooks the left banks of the lake; right banks of the reservoir are flanked by the provincial road nr. 40 \"Urbe - Vara - Passo del Faiallo\" and from \"Bric del Sozzo\" (650 m). The lake is located on the northern border of Parco naturale regionale del Beigua, which encompasses its left shore.\n\nAntenna lake was realised in 1922 in order to provide water to the hydroelectric power plant of the \"Cotonificio Ligure\", located in San Pietro d'Orba. During the 1940s the reservoir capacity was considered insufficient and started dam extension works which ended on 1946, bringing the reservoir capacity up to around 50.000 m³. Present-day dam is a masonry arch-gravity dam; it finally inspection took place in February 1952. Nowadays the reservoir capacity is restricted by the sedimentation on the lake bed and is estimated to be around 30,000 m³.\n\nLake Antenna is classified, following Province of Savona fishing map, as a B category water body (\"Acque di categoria B\"), thus \"mixed population\" water. The lake is also defined as touristic fishing reserve (\"riserva di pesca turistica\"), and is restocked with rainbow trouts when authorised by Parco del Beigua. Restocking with brown trouts is not permitted because they are not considered native fish. The lake is the subject of a yearly fauna survey. Access rules are defined by Provincia di Savona administration.\n"}
{"id": "47567966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47567966", "title": "Laurence Steinberg", "text": "Laurence Steinberg\n\nLaurence Steinberg was born in 1952 and is an American university professor of psychology, specializing in child and adolescent psychological development.\nSteinberg is a professor at Temple University in Philadelphia, where he is a Distinguished University Professor, and where he holds a named position, the \"Laura H. Carnell Professor of Psychology\". He is a Fellow of the American Psychological Association, the Association for Psychological Science, and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, has been a Faculty Scholar of the William T. Grant Foundation, and was Director of the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation Research Network on Adolescent Development and Juvenile Justice. Steinberg is a former President of the Division of Developmental Psychology of the American Psychological Association and of the Society for Research on Adolescence. Steinberg’s research has focused on a range of topics in the study of contemporary adolescence, including adolescent brain development, risk-taking and decision-making, parent-adolescent relationships, adolescent employment, high school reform, and juvenile justice. Steinberg proposed the Dual Systems Model of adolescent brain development. He has been a frequent consultant to state and federal agencies and lawmakers on child labor, secondary education, and juvenile justice policy.\n\nSteinberg has been the recipient of numerous honors, including the National Academy of Sciences Henry and Bryna David Lectureship; the John P. Hill Award for Outstanding Contributions to the Study of Adolescence, given by the Society for Research on Adolescence; the Society for Adolescent Medicine’s Gallagher Lectureship; and several lifetime achievement awards given by the American Psychological Association, including the Urie Bronfenbrenner Award for Lifetime Contribution to Developmental Psychology in the Service of Science and Society, the Award for Distinguished Contributions to Research in Public Policy, and the Presidential Citation. In 2009, he was named the first recipient of the Klaus J. Jacobs Research Prize for Productive Youth Development. In 2014, he received the Elizabeth Hurlock Beckman Award, a national prize given to professors who have “inspired former students to make a contribution to society.”\n\nSteinberg is the author of approximately 400 articles and essays on growth and development during the teenage years, and the author, co-author, or editor of 17 books, including \"Adolescence\", the leading college textbook on adolescent development; \"When Teenagers Work: The Psychological and Social Costs of Adolescent Employment\" (with Ellen Greenberger); \"Crossing Paths: How Your Child’s Adolescence Triggers Your Own Crisis\" (with Wendy Steinberg); \"Beyond the Classroom: Why School Reform Has Failed and What Parents Need to Do\" (with Bradford Brown and Sanford Dornbusch); \"The 10 Basic Principles of Good Parenting\", which has been published in 10 languages; \"You and Your Adolescent: The Essential Guide for Ages 10 to 25\"; \"Rethinking Juvenile Justice\" (with Elizabeth Scott); and, most recently, \"Age of Opportunity: Lessons From the New Science of Adolescence\". He has also written for many popular outlets, including the \"New York Times\", the \"Wall Street Journal\", the \"Washington Post\", \"Slate\", and \"Salon\".\n\nSteinberg is frequently called upon to serve as an expert witness in cases involving juvenile offenders.\nThe \"Boston Globe\" called upon Steinberg to address, for its readers, the question as to whether 19-year-old Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, convicted of the 2013 Boston Marathon bombing, should be given a reduced sentence because he had always looked up to his older brother.\n\n\"Age of Opportunity: Lessons from the New Science of Adolescence\", was published by Eamon Dolan/Houghton Mifflin Harcourt in September 2014. While introducing Steinberg, prior to interviewing him about this book, for National Public Radio, Anya Kamenetz described how \"his testimony has contributed to Supreme Court decisions abolishing the death penalty for juveniles and life without parole for juvenile offenders.\" Using \"Age of Opportunity\" as a starting point Wendy Leung, in \"The Globe and Mail\" credits Steinberg as \"redefining\" how we think about adolescence. Leung notes how Steinberg's study of “neuroplasticity” justifies considering adolescence continuing up until 25 years old, because individuals brains weren't fully formed at that age.\n\nFrom 1983 to 1988, he was professor at University of Wisconsin–Madison and from 1977 to 1983, he was assistant professor at University of California, Irvine. His PhD in developmental psychology is from Cornell University.\n\n"}
{"id": "7419828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7419828", "title": "Leisure studies", "text": "Leisure studies\n\nLeisure studies is a branch of the social sciences that focuses on understanding and analyzing leisure. Recreation and tourism are common topics of leisure research.\n\nThe National Recreation and Park Association is the national organization in the United States for leisure studies, and offers accreditation to many universities to offer courses of study (degree programs) in leisure studies.\n\nThe \"Journal of Leisure Research\" and \"Journal of Park and Recreation Administration\" are some scholarly US academic journals of leisure studies.\n\nWhile leisure studies has existed for much longer, a first centralized organization for directing leisure studies was established in Birmingham, England, in May 1975, and is known as the Leisure Studies Association. In 1984, the first international conference was held by the LSA at the University of Sussex in Brighton, which also set the record as the largest LSA event held to date with over 275 attendees. LSA conferences are widely regarded as some of the most attended events for leisure researchers in the world.\n\nPursuing a degree in leisure studies will give students the opportunity to learn how to incorporate leisure into recreational activities and tourism. Students take a wide variety of classes ranging from psychology and social sciences to biology and anatomy. Students learn how to improve and foster a healthy life through leisure.\n\nThe leisure activities that people who work in leisure studies deal with include a very broad range of activities. Most of the activities can be separated into 3 sub-categories: sport and recreation, tourism, and leisure.\nSport and recreation activities is one of the broadest categories in leisure studies. This includes sports, both traditional and non-traditional, and any indoor or outdoor physical activities done for recreational purposes. Sport and recreation activities includes, but is not limited to, swimming, running, hiking, weight lifting, playing games and other outdoor recreation.\n\nTourism describes the traveling for leisure purposes. Destinations include parks and national parks, hikes, and domestic and foreign cities.\n\nAll other activities that are not considered to be a part of sport and recreation or tourism are included general leisure activities. This category is quite vast, and includes, but are not limited to, yoga, the arts, nature conservation, and other hobbies.\n\nA bachelor's degree in leisure studies qualifies graduates for a wide range of entry level recreational occupations in . ALL THIS IS WRONG ABOUT LEISURE STUDIES...v/ooh/personal-care-and-service/recreation-workers.htm#tab-1|title=Recreation Workers|date=8 January 2014|publisher=|accessdate=29 July 2015}}</ref> This is growing as fast as the average of all jobs and is potentially due to increasing childhood obesity rates and the aging baby-boomers generation.\n\nWork settings include:\n\nIndustries that employed the most recreation/leisure workers in 2012 and average annual salary:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3738104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3738104", "title": "List of United Nations Security Council Resolutions 301 to 400", "text": "List of United Nations Security Council Resolutions 301 to 400\n\nThis is a list of United Nations Security Council Resolutions 301 to 400 adopted between 20 October 1971 and 7 December 1976.\n"}
{"id": "18226484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18226484", "title": "List of countries by apple production", "text": "List of countries by apple production\n\nThis is a list of countries by apple production in 2016, based on data from the Food and Agriculture Organization Corporate Statistical Database. The total world apple production for 2016 was 89,329,179 metric tonnes.\n\nThe total area harvested in the world for apples was 5,293,340 hectares in 2016.\n"}
{"id": "40170111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40170111", "title": "List of microorganisms tested in outer space", "text": "List of microorganisms tested in outer space\n\nThe survival of some microorganisms exposed to outer space has been studied using both simulated facilities and low Earth orbit exposures. Bacteria were some of the first organisms investigated, when in 1960 a Russian satellite carried \"Escherichia coli\", \"Staphylococcus\", and \"Enterobacter aerogenes\" into orbit. A large number of microorganisms have been selected for exposure experiments since, as listed in the table below.\n\nExperiments of the adaption of microbes in space have yielded unpredictable results. While sometimes the microorganism may weaken, they can also increase in their disease-causing potency.\n\nIt is possible to classify these microorganisms into two groups, the human-borne, and the extremophiles. Studying the human-borne microorganisms is significant for human welfare and future crewed missions in space, whilst the extremophiles are vital for studying the physiological requirements of survival in space. NASA has pointed out that normal adults have ten times as many microbial cells as human cells in their bodies. They are also nearly everywhere in the environment, and although normally invisible, can form slimy biofilms.\n\nExtremophiles have adapted to live in some of the most extreme environments on Earth. This includes hypersaline lakes, arid regions, deep sea, acidic sites, cold and dry polar regions and permafrost. The existence of extremophiles has led to the speculation that microorganisms could survive the harsh conditions of extraterrestrial environments and be used as model organisms to understand the fate of biological systems in these environments. The focus of many of the experiments has been to investigate the possible survival of organisms inside rocks (lithopanspermia), or their survival on Mars for understanding the likelihood of past or present life on that planet. Because of their ubiquity and resistance to spacecraft decontamination, bacterial spores are considered likely potential forward contaminants on robotic missions to Mars. Measuring the resistance of such organisms to space conditions can be applied to develop adequate decontamination procedures.\n\nResearch and testing of microorganisms in outer space could eventually be applied for directed panspermia or terraforming.\n"}
{"id": "3216041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3216041", "title": "Mandibular canine", "text": "Mandibular canine\n\nThe mandibular canine is the tooth located distally (away from the midline of the face) from both mandibular lateral incisors of the mouth but mesially (toward the midline of the face) from both mandibular first premolars. Both the maxillary and mandibular canines are called the \"cornerstone\" of the mouth because they are all located three teeth away from the midline, and separate the premolars from the incisors. The location of the canines reflect their dual function as they complement both the premolars and incisors during mastication, commonly known as chewing. Nonetheless, the most common action of the canines is tearing of food. The canine teeth are able to withstand the tremendous lateral pressures from chewing. There is a single cusp on canines, and they resemble the prehensile teeth found in carnivorous animals. Though relatively the same, there are some minor differences between the deciduous (baby) mandibular canine and that of the permanent mandibular canine.\n\nThe mandibular canines begin to show calcification at age 4 months and the enamel of the crown is completely formed by age 7 years. The permanent mandibular canines erupt at around 9 to 10 years of age. The mandibular and maxillary canines are the longest teeth in the mouth. The root of the mandibular canine, which is fully formed by age 13, is the longest in the mandibular arch. The mandibular canines are slightly narrower than the maxillary canines but its crown is as long and sometimes is longer. The mandibular canines usually have only one root, but sometimes the root may be bifurcated, or have two roots. When it does, one root faces the tongue (lingual side) and one will face the lip (labial side).\n\nIn the universal system of notation, the deciduous mandibular canines are designated by a letter written in uppercase. The right deciduous mandibular canine is known as \"R\", and the left one is known as \"M\". The international notation has a different system of notation. Thus, the right deciduous mandibular canine is known as \"83\", and the left one is known as \"73\".\n\nIn the universal system of notation, the permanent mandibular canines are designated by a number. The right permanent mandibular canine known as \"27\", and the left one is known as \"22\". In the Palmer notation, a number is used in conjunction with a symbol designating in which quadrant the tooth is found. For this tooth, the left and right canines would have the same number, \"3\", but the right one would have the symbol, \"┐\", over it, while the left one would have, \"┌\". The international notation has a different numbering system than the previous two, and the right permanent mandibular canine is known as \"43\", and the left one is known as \"33\".\n\n"}
{"id": "57519599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57519599", "title": "Marketing of electronic cigarettes", "text": "Marketing of electronic cigarettes\n\nThe marketing of electronic cigarettes is legal in some jurisdictions, and spending is increasing rapidly.\n\nE-cigarette companies have been accused of using similar to pre-regulation tobacco advertising. A 2014 review said, \"the e-cigarette companies have been rapidly expanding using aggressive marketing messages similar to those used to promote cigarettes in the 1950s and 1960s.\" E-cigarettes and nicotine are regularly promoted as safe and beneficial in the media and on brand websites. While advertising of tobacco products is banned in most countries, television and radio e-cigarette advertising in some countries may be indirectly encouraging traditional cigarette smoking. There is no evidence that the cigarette brands are selling e-cigarettes as part of a plan to phase out traditional cigarettes, despite some claiming to want to cooperate in \"harm reduction\". \n\nAccording to a 2014 review, e-cigarettes are aggressively promoted in the US, mostly via the internet, as a healthy alternative to smoking. \n\nThere are concerns of claims that e-cigarettes are harmless, or even beneficial, to the user. E-cigarette companies commonly promote that their products contain only water, nicotine, glycerin, propylene glycol, and flavoring but this assertion is misleading. have found differing amounts of heavy metals in the vapor, including chromium, nickel, tin, silver, cadmium, mercury, and aluminum. The assertion that e-cigarette emit \"only water vapor\" is false because the evidence indicates e-cigarette vapor contains possibly harmful chemicals such as nicotine, carbonyls, metals, and organic volatile compounds, in addition to particulates. \n\nMedical claims are also made, including \"pharmaceuticalization\", comparing e-cigarettes to nicotine inhalers.\n\nE-liquids marketed as \"nicotine-free\" have been found to contain nicotine.\n\nCelebrity endorsements are also used to encourage e-cigarette use. A national US television advertising campaign starred Steven Dorff exhaling a \"thick flume\" of what the ad describes as \"vapor, not tobacco smoke\", exhorting smokers with the message \"We are all adults here, it's time to take our freedom back.\" The ads, in a context of longstanding prohibition of tobacco advertising on TV, were criticized by organizations such as Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids as undermining anti-tobacco efforts. Cynthia Hallett of Americans for Non-Smokers' Rights described the US advertising campaign as attempting to \"re-establish a norm that smoking is okay, that smoking is glamorous and acceptable\". University of Pennsylvania communications professor Joseph Cappella stated that the setting of the ad near an ocean was meant to suggest an association of clean air with the nicotine product.\n\nIn the United States, six large e-cigarette businesses spent $59.3 million on promoting e-cigarettes in 2013.\n\nBig tobacco heavily markets e-cigarettes to young people. The youth have been a primary target for the tobacco companies because the \"use of tobacco products, no matter what type, is almost always started and established during adolescence when the developing brain is most vulnerable to nicotine addiction.\" According to the 2018 National Youth Tobacco Survey (NYTS), there was a sharp increase of 1.5 million more middle and high school students using e-cigarettes compared to 2017. From the analysis of the 2016 NYTS, CDC and the FDA were able to highlight some of the most common reasons why students use e-cigarettes, which included the various options of e-cigarette flavors and the false belief of inflicting less harm compared to other tobacco products. \n\nMarketing includes images associated with youth culture. \n\nIndustry strategies also include cartoon characters and candy flavors to sell e-cigarettes. Flavoured products have been shown to be particularly attractive to younger people. Tobacco companies have been increasingly marketing many tobacco products that resembles different types of candy, like cotton-candy-flavored e-cigarettes. In 2014, there were more than 7,700 different e-cigarette flavours available online, with over 240 new additional flavors being added each month; fruit, candy, and dessert flavours are common. Marketing flavoured e-cigarette products has been shown to attract children. Ads for flavoured e-cigarettes have been shown to cause children to be more interested in buying and trying e-cigarettes, as compared to ads for unflavoured e-cigarettes. Children's belief that fruit-flavoured e-cigarettes are less harmful also increases their appeal, and restrictions on advertising for flavoured e-cigarettes have also been urged on these grounds. \n\nProducts such as JUUL are marketed in a design which can easily be mistaken for a flash drive by parents and teachers. JUUL is under federal investigation for illegally marketing to minors in the US as of 2018. Youth are highly exposed to the marketing of electronic cigarettes. Advertisements come from many sources, such as retail stores, the internet, and television. \n\nAs of 2014, 39 countries containing 31% of the world's population have comprehensive e-cigarette advertising, promotion and sponsorship bans, and 19 countries containing 5% of the world's populations require products like e-cigarettes to be reviewed before being placed on the market. However, these bans are not always well-enforced. Easily circumvented age verification at company websites enables young people to access and be exposed to marketing for e-cigarettes.\n\nE-cigarettes have been listed as drug delivery devices in several countries because they contain nicotine, and their advertising has been restricted until safety and efficacy clinical trials are conclusive. Since they do not contain whole tobacco, television advertising in the United States is not restricted. However, advertising and promotion of e-cigarettes and refill containers in print (newspaper, magazine, periodical), television, or radio media is prohibited in the European Union by the European Commission's 2014 Tobacco Products Directive (incorporated in British law by the 2016 Tobacco and Related Products Regulations). Promotional elements on the packaging is prohibited, as is cross-border advertising and promotion of e-cigarette products. Additionally, warning labels stating that the products contain nicotine and should not be used by non-smokers are mandatory, and a leaflet must be provided \"with instructions for use and information on adverse effects, risk groups, addictiveness and toxicity\". However, billboard advertising, posters on domestic public transport, in the cinema, by leaflets or mail and in trade media is still permitted.\n\nDue to concerns about the marketing of these flavored products targeting youths and people of color, San Francisco banned the sale of flavored nicotine products, including flavoured e-liquids, in 2018.\n\nEchoing the legislation in San Francisco, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) took a stand on the sale of flavored e-cigarettes in 2018. The ban targeted the sale of flavored tobacco at certain establishments such as retail stores and gas stations. Additionally, the administration planned to require age verification for online orders to ensure that these flavored products did not reach underage patrons. \n\nIn some jurisdictions, regulations have not been explicit enough to prevent companies from marketing and selling e-cigarettes to minors.\n\n"}
{"id": "1244082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1244082", "title": "Medical consensus", "text": "Medical consensus\n\nMedical consensus is a public statement on a particular aspect of medical knowledge at the time the statement is made that a representative group of experts agree to be evidence-based and state-of-the-art (state-of-the-science) knowledge. Its main objective is to counsel physicians on the best possible and acceptable way to diagnose and treat certain diseases or how to address a particular decision-making area. It is usually, therefore, considered an authoritative, community-based expression of a consensus decision-making and publication process.\nThere are many ways of producing medical consensus, but the most usual way is to convene an independent panel of experts, either by a medical association or by a governmental authority.\n\nSince consensus statements provide a \"snapshot in time\" of the state of knowledge in a particular topic, they must periodically be re-evaluated and published again, replacing the previous consensus statement.\n\nConsensus statements differ from medical guidelines, another form of state-of-the-science public statements. According to the NIH, \"Consensus statements synthesize new information, largely from recent or ongoing medical research, that has implications for reevaluation of routine medical practices. They do not give specific algorithms or guidelines for practice.\"\n\nFrom 1977 to 2013, the National Institutes of Health (United States) promoted about five to six consensus panels per year, and organized this knowledge by means of a special Consensus Development Program, managed by the NIH's Office of Disease Prevention (ODP). It was retired in 2013 in deference to other agencies and organizations that had picked up the lead, such as the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force, the Community Preventive Services Task Force, Institute of Medicine, and Cochrane. Its archive is available in printed form as well as for downloading from the Internet.\n\n"}
{"id": "20084600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20084600", "title": "Moderation (statistics)", "text": "Moderation (statistics)\n\nIn statistics and regression analysis, moderation occurs when the relationship between two variables depends on a third variable. The third variable is referred to as the moderator variable or simply the moderator. The effect of a moderating variable is characterized statistically as an interaction; that is, a categorical (e.g., sex, ethnicity, class) or quantitative (e.g., level of reward) variable that affects the direction and/or strength of the relation between dependent and independent variables. Specifically within a correlational analysis framework, a moderator is a third variable that affects the zero-order correlation between two other variables, or the value of the slope of the dependent variable on the independent variable. In analysis of variance (ANOVA) terms, a basic moderator effect can be represented as an interaction between a focal independent variable and a factor that specifies the appropriate conditions for its operation.\n\nModeration analysis in the behavioral sciences involves the use of linear multiple regression analysis or causal modelling. To quantify the effect of a moderating variable in multiple regression analyses, regressing random variable \"Y\" on \"X\", an additional term is added to the model. This term is the interaction between \"X\" and the proposed moderating variable.\n\nThus, for a response \"Y\" and two variables \"x\" and moderating variable \"x\",:\n\nIn this case, the role of \"x\" as a moderating variable is accomplished by evaluating \"b\", the parameter estimate for the interaction term. See linear regression for discussion of statistical evaluation of parameter estimates in regression analyses.\n\nIn moderated regression analysis, a new interaction predictor (formula_2) is calculated. However, the new interaction term will be correlated with the two main effects terms used to calculate it. This is the problem of multicollinearity in moderated regression. Multicollinearity tends to cause coefficients to be estimated with higher standard errors and hence greater uncertainty.\n\nMean-centering (subtracting raw scores from the mean) has been suggested as a remedy for multicollinearity. However, mean-centering is unnecessary in any regression analysis, as one uses a correlation matrix and the data are already centered after calculating correlations. Correlations are derived from the cross-product of two standard scores (Z-scores) or statistical moments (hence the name: Pearson Product-Moment Correlation). Also see the article by Kromrey & Foster-Johnson (1998) on \"\"Mean-centering in Moderated Regression: Much Ado About Nothing\".\"\n\nLike simple main effect analysis in ANOVA, in post-hoc probing of interactions in regression, we are examining the simple slope of one independent variable at the specific values of the other independent variable. Below is an example of probing two-way interactions. \nIn what follows the regression equation with two variables A and B and an interaction term A*B, \nwill be considered.\n\nIf both of the independent variables are categorical variables, we can analyze the results of the regression for one independent variable at a specific level of the other independent variable. For example, suppose that both A and B are single dummy coded (0,1) variables, and that A represents ethnicity (0 = European Americans, 1 = East Asians) and B represents the condition in the study (0 = control, 1 = experimental). Then the interaction effect shows whether the effect of condition on the dependent variable Y is different for European Americans and East Asians and whether the effect of ethnic status is different for the two conditions. \nThe coefficient of A shows the ethnicity effect on Y for the control condition, while the coefficient of B shows the effect of imposing the experimental condition for European American participants.\nTo probe if there is any significant difference between European Americans and East Asians in the experimental condition, we can simply run the analysis with the condition variable reverse-coded (0 = experimental, 1 = control), so that the coefficient for ethnicity represents the ethnicity effect on Y in the experimental condition. In a similar vein, if we want to see whether the treatment has an effect for East Asian participants, we can reverse code the ethnicity variable (0 = East Asians, 1 = European Americans).\n\nIf the first independent variable is a categorical variable (e.g. gender) and the second is a continuous variable (e.g. scores on the Satisfaction With Life Scale (SWLS)), then b represents the difference in the dependent variable between males and females when life satisfaction is zero. However, a zero score on the Satisfaction With Life Scale is meaningless as the range of the score is from 7 to 35. This is where centering comes in. If we subtract the mean of the SWLS score for the sample from each participant's score, the mean of the resulting centered SWLS score is zero. When the analysis is run again, b now represents the difference between males and females at the mean level of the SWLS score of the sample.\n\nCohen et al. (2003) recommended using the following to probe the simple effect of gender on the dependent variable (Y) at three levels of the continuous independent variable: high (one standard deviation above the mean), moderate (at the mean), and low (one standard deviation below the mean). If the scores of the continuous variable are not standardized, one can just calculate these three values by adding or subtracting one standard deviation of the original scores; if the scores of the continuous variable are standardized, one can calculate the three values as follows: high = the standardized score minus 1, moderate (mean = 0), low = the standardized score plus 1. Then one can explore the effects of gender on the dependent variable (\"Y\") at high, moderate, and low levels of the SWLS score. As with two categorical independent variables, \"b\" represents the effect of the SWLS score on the dependent variable for females. By reverse coding the gender variable, one can get the effect of the SWLS score on the dependent variable for males.\n\nWhen treating categorical variables such as ethnic groups and experimental treatments as independent variables in moderated regression, one needs to code the variables so that each code variable represents a specific setting of the categorical variable. There are three basic ways of coding: Dummy-variable coding, Effects coding, and Contrast coding. Below is an introduction to these coding systems.\nDummy coding is used when one has a reference group or one condition in particular (e.g. a control group in the experiment) that is to be compared to each of the other experimental groups. In this case, the intercept is the mean of the reference group, and each of the unstandardized regression coefficients is the difference in the dependent variable between one of the treatment groups and the mean of the reference group (or control group). This coding system is similar to ANOVA analysis, and is appropriate when researchers have a specific reference group and want to compare each of the other groups with it.\n\nEffects coding is used when one does not have a particular comparison or control group and does not have any planned orthogonal contrasts. The intercept is the grand mean (the mean of all the conditions). The regression coefficient is the difference between the mean of one group and the mean of all the group means (e.g. the mean of group A minus the mean of all groups). This coding system is appropriate when the groups represent natural categories.\n\nContrast coding is used when one has a series of orthogonal contrasts or group comparisons that are to be investigated. In this case, the intercept is the unweighted mean of the individual group means. The unstandardized regression coefficient represents the difference between the unweighted mean of the means of one group (A) and the unweighted mean of another group (B), where A and B are two sets of groups in the contrast. This coding system is appropriate when researchers have an a priori hypothesis concerning the specific differences among the group means.\n\nIf both of the independent variables are continuous, it is helpful for interpretation to either center or standardize the independent variables, \"X\" and \"Z\". (Centering involves subtracting the overall sample mean score from the original score; standardizing does the same followed by dividing by the overall sample standard deviation.) By centering or standardizing the independent variables, the coefficient of \"X\" or \"Z\" can be interpreted as the effect of that variable on Y at the mean level of the other independent variable.\n\nTo probe the interaction effect, it is often helpful to plot the effect of \"X\" on \"Y\" at low and high values of \"Z\" (some people prefer to also plot the effect at moderate values of \"Z\", but this is not necessary). Often values of \"Z\" that are one standard deviation above and below the mean are chosen for this, but any sensible values can be used (and in some cases there are more meaningful values to choose). The plot is usually drawn by evaluating the values of \"Y\" for high and low values of both \"X\" and \"Z\", and creating two lines to represent the effect of \"X\" on \"Y\" at the two values of \"Z\". Sometimes this is supplemented by simple slope analysis, which determines whether the effect of \"X\" on \"Y\" is statistically significant at particular values of \"Z\". Various internet-based tools exist to help researchers plot and interpret such two-way interactions.\n\nThe principles for two-way interactions apply when we want to explore three-way or higher-level interactions. For instance, if we have a three-way interaction between \"A\", \"B\", and \"C\", the regression equation will be as follows:\n\nIt is worth noting that the reliability of the higher-order terms depends on the reliability of the lower-order terms. For example, if the reliability for variable A is 0.70, and reliability for variable B is 0.80, then the reliability for the interaction variable A * B is 0.70 × 0.80 = 0.56. In this case, low reliability of the interaction term leads to low power; therefore, we may not be able to find the interaction effects between A and B that actually exist. The solution for this problem is to use highly reliable measures for each independent variable.\nAnother caveat for interpreting the interaction effects is that when variable A and variable B are highly correlated, then the A * B term will be highly correlated with the omitted variable A; consequently what appears to be a significant moderation effect might actually be a significant nonlinear effect of A alone. If this is the case, it is worth testing a nonlinear regression model by adding nonlinear terms in individual variables into the moderated regression analysis to see if the interactions remain significant. If the interaction effect A*B is still significant, we will be more confident in saying that there is indeed a moderation effect; however, if the interaction effect is no longer significant after adding the nonlinear term, we will be less certain about the existence of a moderation effect and the nonlinear model will be preferred because it is more parsimonious.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26017769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26017769", "title": "Moustapha Kassem", "text": "Moustapha Kassem\n\nMoustapha Kassem (born 1959) is a scientist, physician and endocrinologist based in Denmark. He received his medical degree from Kasr-el-Aini Medical School, Cairo University, Egypt (1985) and received his post-graduate training in internal medicine and endocrinology in Denmark and USA. He obtained his PhD degree (1994) and DSc degrees (1998) from Aarhus University, Denmark.\n\nHe had a post-doctoral fellowship at the Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA where he worked with professor B. L. Riggs. Moustapha Kassem's research focus is mechanisms of bone formation and stem cell differentiation into skeletal tissues. He combines methodologies of clinical medicine with state-of-the-art technologies of cell and molecular biology. Moustapha Kassem has developed normal and immortalized cell lines for studying human skeletal (mesenchymal) stem cells and their differentiation potential. Moustapha Kassem has also studied aging of bone cells and the effects of donor age on their biological functions. Moustapha Kassem is a co-founder of Stem Cell Treatment Center at Odense University Hospital (OUH), where stem cell therapy is being introduced into clinical practice and PhD graduate school of Stem Cells and Related Technologies.\n\n"}
{"id": "22306120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22306120", "title": "National Resident Matching Program", "text": "National Resident Matching Program\n\nThe National Resident Matching Program (NRMP), also called The Match, is a United States-based private non-profit non-governmental organization created in 1952 to place U.S. medical school students into residency training programs located in United States teaching hospitals. Its mission has since expanded to include the placement of U.S. citizen and non-U.S. citizen international medical school students and graduates into residency and fellowship training programs. In addition to the annual Main Residency Match that encompasses more than 43,000 applicants and 31,000 positions, the NRMP conducts Fellowship Matches for more than 60 subspecialties through its Specialties Matching Service (SMS). The NRMP is sponsored by a Board of Directors that includes medical school deans, teaching hospital executives, graduate medical education program directors, medical students and residents, and one public member. \n\nNRMP International, a subsidiary of the National Resident Matching Program, was established in 2010 to provide medical matching services outside the United States and Canada. \n\nFrom shortly after the first residency programs were formally introduced in the 1920s, the hiring process was \"characterized by intense competition among hospitals for (an inadequate supply) of interns.\" In general, hospitals benefited from filling their positions as early as possible, and applicants benefited from delaying acceptance of positions. The combination of those factors led to offers being made for positions up to two years in advance of the start of postgraduate training.\n\nIn 1945, medical schools decided not to release any transcripts or permit any letters of recommendation to be written until a particular date. In that way, they managed to move the date of residency selection back to the fourth year of medical school. However, the competition for residents simply took on another form. Programs began to issue offers with a time limit for reply. The time limit rapidly decreased from 10 days in 1945 to less than 12 hours in 1950. Students were being issued \"exploding\" offers that required them to make a decision about training before hanging up the telephone. \n\nIn the early 1950s, the National Interassociation Committee on Internships (NICI) examined existing matching plans and chose the Boston Pool Plan, utilized at the time by Boston-area programs, as the model for a trial run of a new centralized system. In October 1951, student representatives from 79 medical schools formed the National Student Internship Committee (NSIC) to discuss the findings of the NICI trial Match and consider an NICI proposal to replicate the Boston Pool Plan at the national level. NSIC petitioned to have the algorithm modified to more equitably represent applicants, and the modified algorithm was adopted and used for the first Match on April 15, 1952. That Match was a success, and the NICI recommended the creation of an organization to administer and oversee the running of the Match. The organization, known as the National Intern Matching Program (NIMP), was incorporated on January 7, 1953.\n\nModifications to the algorithm proposed by students in 1951 were based on concerns that the matching process favored hospitals over applicants. The students believed the algorithm gave them incentives to misrepresent their true preferences. A publication in 1962 by David Gale & Lloyd Shapley noted that there always exists a stable solution when colleges are matching with students, but that it is possible to favor colleges as a group over applicants as a group (and vice versa). That is, Gale and Shapley found that there is a college-optimal stable match and an applicant-optimal stable match. Lloyd Shapley along with Alvin Roth, would go on to win the 2012 Nobel Prize in Economics for their work on stable allocations.\n\nA debate arose regarding whether the matching program was susceptible to manipulation or unreasonably fair to programs. Indeed, it was shown that in simple cases (i.e. those that exclude couples, second-year programs, and special cases for handling unfilled slots) that had multiple \"stable\" matchings, the algorithm would return the solution that preferred the preferences of programs over applicants. A correspondence in \"New England Journal of Medicine\" in 1981 recognized that the algorithm in use was program-optimal for individual applicants.\n\nLater researchers, such as Marilda Sotomayor in 1983, Alvin Roth in 1984, and Klaus et al. in 2007, found that when couples are allowed to match together, there may exist no stable matching.\n\nThe NRMP algorithm saw only minor and incremental changes after its institution in 1952. However, in the fall of 1995 the NRMP Board of Directors commissioned a preliminary research study to evaluate of the current algorithm and recommend changes to be considered in its operation and description, as well as a study comparing a new algorithm with the existing one. A new applicant-proposing algorithm was adopted in May 1997 and has been in use since its first application in March 1998, although the study showed that the net effect of the change on actual matches has been minimal.\n\nMatching applicants to programs is a generalization of the stable marriage problem; as a result, the solutions are very similar. A simplified version of the algorithm that is used to perform the matching process is described below and on the NRMP website. However, this description does not include the handling of couples (pairs of applicants who participate in a Match together, perhaps to stay in the same geographic location), second-year positions, or special handling of residency positions that remain unfilled. The full algorithm is described in \n\nThe application process for residency training begins prior to the opening of the Main Residency Match in September. Applications usually are sent to programs through the Electronic Residency Application Service (ERAS), a service of the Association of American Medical Colleges. After applicants apply to programs, programs review applications and invite selected candidates for interviews held between October and February. After the interview period is over, programs and applicants each compile \"rank order lists\" that they submit to the NRMP. Programs list applicants, ranked in order from most to least preferred, whom they wish to train. Similarly, applicants rank programs where they wish to train. For applicants matching as a couple, the rank order lists include pairs of program choices that are considered simultaneously by the matching algorithm. Applicants' rank order lists can include a combination of categorical programs (training that is 3-5 years in length and begins in the first post-graduate year); preliminary programs (training that is one year in length and begins in the first post-graduate year); or advanced programs (training that is 3-4 years in length and begins after one or more years of preliminary training). For advanced programs on the rank order list, applicants can append a supplemental list of preliminary programs to attempt to match to a full course of training.\n\nThe matching process begins with an attempt to match an applicant to the program most preferred on that applicant’s rank order list. If the applicant cannot be matched to that first choice program, an attempt is made to place the applicant into the second choice program, and so on, until the applicant is tentatively matched to a program that has an open position and who prefers that applicant or all the applicant’s choices on the ROL have been exhausted. This process is carried out for all applicants until each applicant has either been tentatively matched to the most preferred choice possible or all choices submitted by all applicants have been exhausted. Tentative matches then become final.\n\nTo understand how the current NRMP algorithm works, it is helpful to begin by considering the simpler case where there are no couples or secondary programs.\n\nAs in the stable marriage problem, the basic goal it to match applicants to programs so that the results are \"stable\". \"Stability\" in this case means that there is no applicant A and program P such that both of the following are true:\n\nIt can be shown that for any instance of the problem, there is at least one valid solution. Under the old (pre-1995) NRMP algorithm that favored programs' preferences over applicants', programs could benefit in certain cases from lying about their preferences. That no longer is true under the current algorithm. Neither applicants nor programs can benefit by lying about their preferences, even if they have perfect knowledge of everyone's preferences. \n\nUnder the current system, it also is impossible for an applicant to be harmed by including more residency programs at the bottom of a list if those programs are indeed preferable to not being matched.\n\nCouples' rank order lists are processed simultaneously by the matching algorithm, which complicates the problem. In some cases there exists no stable solution (with stable defined the way it is in the simple case). In fact, the problem of determining whether there is a stable solution and finding it if it exists has been proven NP-complete. Also, while there is no randomization in the NRMP algorithm—so it will always return the same output when given exactly the same input—different outcomes can be produced by changing trivial features of the data such as the order in which applicants and programs are processed. However, in initial testing of the algorithm over 5 years of residency match data and a variety of different initial conditions, the current NRMP algorithm always terminated quickly on a stable solution. Testing also showed that \"none of [the trivial] sequencing decisions had a large or systematic effect on the matching produced\"—the maximum number of applicants ever observed to be affected in a single run was 12 out of 22,938.\n\nIn general \"once the programs' rank order lists have been set\", there is no way for an applicant to match into a better position by deciding to match as part of a couple. For example, if a very strong applicant and a very weak applicant match as a couple, there is no mechanism \"in the algorithm\" that allows the stronger applicant to somehow improve the desirability of the weaker applicant. (Of course, if the programs know prior to processing the matching algorithm that the stronger and weaker applicant are participating in the Match as a couple, they are free to change their lists accordingly, which could affect the final outcome.)\n\nIt is possible for an applicant not to match to a program. Until the 2010 Main Residency Match, applicants who did not obtain a position went through a process called the Scramble. At 12:00 p.m. on Monday of Match Week, the NRMP notified applicants whether they had matched to a program (but did not release the name of the program) and released a list of unfilled programs. Applicants then applied en masse to programs that had unfilled positions, frequently having to change their preferred specialty in the process. The Scramble was widely recognized to be chaotic, disorganized, and lacking in transparency. The Scramble ended on Match Day, which was Thursday of Match Week. Most positions filled within the first few hours, and nearly all in the first 48 hours. Scrambling was extremely competitive: in 2008, roughly 10,600 applicants, many of whom were foreign-trained, scrambled for only 1,392 residency positions.\n\nAfter the 2010 Main Residency Match, the Scramble was replaced by the Supplemental Offer and Acceptance Program, or SOAP. In SOAP, unmatched applicants are offered positions in unfilled programs through a series of rounds, creating a systematic way for applicants to find training positions without the chaos of the Scramble. In SOAP, all appointments are made through the NRMP (no direct matching allowed, unlike the Scramble), and unmatched applicant data and unfilled program data are released at the same time on Monday of Match Week. Match Day is now Friday of Match Week.\n\nTo participate in the NRMP, an international medical graduate must meet the requirements for ECFMG certification (not required of M.D. graduates of Canadian medical schools, who are not considered IMGs in the U.S.) by the \"Rank Order List Certification Deadline\" in February of the year of the Match.\n\nTo acquire ECFMG certification, IMGs must: \nIn comparison, students and graduates from medical schools in the United States are bound to the graduation requirements of their individual schools. Both U.S. and foreign-trained applicants can participate in the NRMP while completing their final year of medical school before acquiring their medical diplomas. \n\nIn 2002, 16 law firms filed a lawsuit on behalf of 3 residents seeking to represent all residents matching through the NRMP. The plaintiffs put forward a case which sought to show that the NRMP colluded with other national medical and medical education organization and with residency-sponsoring institutions to depress resident wages, operating in violation of United States antitrust legislation. The chief complaint read:\n\nIn 2004, after a lobbying effort by the Association of American Medical Colleges and the American Hospital Association, a rider that granted specific immunity to the NRMP was added to a pension act signed into law by President George W. Bush. The provision was sponsored by Senators Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, and Judd Gregg, Republican of New Hampshire. Subsequently, a federal district court dismissed the case.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50830846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50830846", "title": "Naval Radiological Defense Laboratory", "text": "Naval Radiological Defense Laboratory\n\nThe United States Naval Radiological Defense Laboratory (NRDL) was an early military lab created to study the effects of radiation and nuclear weapons. The facility was based at the Hunter's Point Naval Shipyard in San Francisco, California.\n\nThe NRDL was formed in 1946 to manage testing, decontamination, and disposition of US Navy ships contaminated by the Operation Crossroads nuclear tests in the Pacific. A number of ships that survived the atomic detonations were towed to Hunter's Point for detailed study and decontamination. Some of the ships were cleaned and sold for scrap. The aircraft carrier USS Independence, which had been heavily damaged and contaminated with nuclear fallout by Operation Crossroads explosions in July 1946, was brought to the NRDL for study. After years of trying in vain to decontaminate the ship enough that it could be safely sold for scrap, the Navy ultimately packed the ship full of nuclear waste and scuttled the radioactive hulk off California near the Farallon Islands in January 1951. The ship's wreck was discovered resting upright under 790m of water in 2009.\n\nThe NRDL used several buildings at the Hunter's Point shipyard from 1946 to 1969. Working with the newly formed US Atomic Energy Commission (predecessor to the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission established in 1974), the Navy conducted a wide variety of radiation experiments on materials and animals at the lab, including the construction of a cyclotron on the site for use in radiation experiments and storage for various nuclear materials.\n\nAn article published 2 May 2001 in SF Weekly detailed various aspects of nuclear testing at NRDL from declassified records:\n\nThe first use of radioactive materials at NRDL predated the issuing of licenses by the Atomic Energy Commission, but the AEC later issued licenses for a broad spectrum of radioactive materials to be used in research at the NRDL. Radioactive materials specific to nuclear weapon testing were exempted from AEC licensing. For closure of the NRDL in 1969, the AEC issued licenses for decommissioning activities. AEC licenses for the shipyard and NRDL were terminated in the 1970s.\n\nThe NRDL testing and decontamination activities caused significant contamination of the shipyard site. The NRDL and the military radiation training school at nearby Naval Station Treasure Island loaded the nuclear waste left from experiments into steel barrels and sent weekly barges to dump them offshore near the Gulf of the Farallons, which is a US National Wildlife Refuge and a major commercial fishery. Between 1946 and 1970, records estimate the lab and naval station dumped an estimated 47,000 drums of nuclear waste in the Pacific Ocean 30 miles west of San Francisco, creating the first and largest offshore nuclear waste dump in the United States. The USGS states the barrels contain only \"low-level radioactive waste,\" but this is disputed by historical records and experts.\n\nThe US Navy completed a Historical Radiological Assessment of the Hunter's Point Shipyard in 2004, including the known NRDL facilities on the property, years after the SF Weekly article cited declassified documents showing that many sites and buildings used by NRDL were not included in the Navy's list of sites with potential for radiological contamination. Many of the buildings formerly used by NRDL had been razed by that point.\n\nThe former shipyard site is still being decontaminated, and has been split into multiple parcels to allow the Navy to declare them clean and safe for redevelopment separately. While developer Lennar has built and sold hundreds of new condominium units in the SF Shipyard development on the property, a number of regulators, activists, and cleanup workers have claimed that the site is still heavily contaminated and that the company contracted to handle the cleanup and testing, Tetra Tech has repeatedly violated established cleanup protocols, deliberately falsified radiation test results at the site to falsely show that there is little remaining radiation, and fired employees who attempted to force workers to perform radiation tests as required.\n\n"}
{"id": "28951500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28951500", "title": "Nowatske v. Osterloh", "text": "Nowatske v. Osterloh\n\nNowatske v. Osterloh, 198 Wis.2d 419, 543 N.W.2d 265 (Wis. 1996), \"on remand\", 201 Wis.2d 497, 549 N.W.2d 256 (Wis. App. 1996), is a case relating to the law of medical malpractice in Wisconsin.\n\nThe plaintiff, Kim Nowatske underwent retinal reattachment surgery in his right eye in 1989. After the surgery, Nowatske could not see out of the eye in question. During routine post-operative testing, defendant surgeon used his finger (instead of a tonometer) to measure the pressure inside Nowatske's eye and, noting a normal \"back-off\" response to light, did not specifically ask the patient whether he could see in his right eye or not.\nThe patient thought the inability to see was a normal consequence of the surgery. After the patient was discharged, he experienced severe pain; the surgeon, learning that the patient did not receive the pain medication prescribed, called in a prescription to a local pharmacy without inquiring further of the patient regarding the pain. The next day, Nowatske was examined by the surgeon and learned that the blindness in the right eye was permanent. In 1991, he and his wife sued the surgeon, and the case went to trial. A jury determined that the surgeon was not negligent, and the plaintiff appealed.\n\nOn appeal, the plaintiff argued:\n\nThe Wisconsin Court of Appeals certified the first three legal questions to the Wisconsin Supreme Court. The state supreme court agreed to consider only the question of whether the pattern jury instructions were correct or not, and held that the jury instructions contained no legal error but \"should be improved.\"\n\nThe Wisconsin Court of Appeals then determined that the questions asked during impeachment were improper, but that this was harmless error. Allowing the defendant to demonstrate the use of an ophthalmoscope in the courtroom was within the trial court's discretion, and although the appeals court did \"not approve of the involvement of jurors in such a demonstration,\" this had no effect on the outcome of the case and therefore was not reversible error.\n\nFinally, the court of appeals held that \"[w]e will sustain a jury verdict if there is any credible evidence to support it. \"See\" \"Nieuwendorp v. American Family Ins. Co.\", 191 Wis. 2d 462, 472, 529 N.W.2d 594, 598 (1995). Our consideration of the evidence must be done in the light most favorable to the verdict, and when more than one inference may be drawn from the evidence, we are bound to accept the inference drawn by the jury . . . . It is the jury's responsibility to determine the credibility of the witnesses and the weight to be afforded their testimony.\" There was conflicting testimony from experts regarding the standard of care (as to whether, after this type of surgery, a doctor may measure intraocular pressure using his finger or whether the doctor should use a tonometer) and, as it is the role of the jury and not the court of appeals to weigh expert testimony, the court of appeals affirmed the judgment of the trial court.\n\n"}
{"id": "45399329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45399329", "title": "Pathophysiology of spider bites", "text": "Pathophysiology of spider bites\n\nThe pathophysiology of a spider bite is due to the effect of its venom. A spider envenomation occurs whenever a spider injects venom into the skin. Not all spider bites inject venom – a dry bite, and the amount of venom injected can vary based on the type of spider and the circumstances of the encounter. The mechanical injury from a spider bite is not a serious concern for humans. Some spider bites do leave a large enough wound that infection may be a concern. However, it is generally the toxicity of spider venom that poses the most risk to human beings; several spiders are known to have venom that can cause injury to humans in the amounts that a spider will typically inject when biting.\n\nOnly a small percentage of species have bites that pose a danger to people. Many spiders do not have mouthparts capable of penetrating human skin. While venoms are by definition toxic substances, most spiders do not have venom that is toxic to humans (in the quantities delivered) to require medical attention. Of those that do, fatal outcomes are exceedingly rare.\n\nSpider venoms work on one of two fundamental principles; they are either neurotoxic (impairing the nervous system) or necrotic (dissolving tissues surrounding the bite). In some cases, the venom targets vital organs and systems.\n\nSpiders paralyze prey with neurotoxic venom of some sort. A few have a venom that cross reacts with mammalian nervous system, though the specific manner in which the nervous system is attacked varies from spider to spider. When motor neurons are excited the symptoms include muscle spasms, cramps, and twitching. When autonomic nerves are involved sweating, drooling, gooseflesh. In the extreme unstable blood pressure and heart rate can result.\n\nSpiders known to have necrotic venom occur most notoriously in the family Sicariidae, which includes both the recluse spiders and the six-eyed sand spiders in the genus \"Hexophthalma\". Spiders in this family possess a known dermonecrotic agent sphingomyelinase D, which is otherwise found only in a few pathogenic bacteria. Some species in this family are more venomous than others; according to one study, the venom of the Chilean recluse and several species of six-eyed sand spider indigenous to southern Africa, contains an order of magnitude more of this substance than do other sicariid spiders such as the brown recluse. Bites by spiders in this family can produce symptoms ranging from minor localized effects, to severe dermonecrotic lesions, up to and including severe systemic reactions including renal failure, and in some cases, death. Even in the absence of systemic effects, serious bites from sicariid spiders may form a necrotising ulcer that destroys soft tissue and may take months and very rarely years to heal, leaving deep scars. The damaged tissue may become gangrenous and eventually slough away. Initially there may be no pain from a bite, but over time the wound may grow to 10 inches (25 cm) in extreme cases. Bites usually become painful and itchy within two to eight hours, pain and other local effects worsen 12 to 36 hours after the bite, and then necrosis will develop over the next few days.\n\nSystemic effects are unusual but include mild nausea, vomiting, fever, rashes, and muscle and joint pain. Rarely, more severe symptoms occur including red blood cell destruction (hemolysis), low platelets (thrombocytopenia), and loss of clotting factors (disseminated intravascular coagulation). Children may be more susceptible to systemic loxoscelism effects. Deaths have been reported for both the brown recluse and the related South American species \"Loxosceles laeta\" and \"Loxosceles intermedia\" related to hemolysis and the injury that results to the kidney. Deaths attributed to brown recluse where no brown recluse live, highlight misdiagnosis and misconception\n\nNumerous other spiders have been associated with necrotic bites. The white tailed spider (\"Lampona\" spp.) had been suspected in necrotic lesions for decades only to be exonerated by the first extensive review. An early report Sac spider causing necrosis has been frequently referenced. Recent surveys doubt the incidence of necrosis. Necrosis from Hobo spider, a member grass spider family Agelenidae, bite is under the same debate and doubt.\n\nThe skin manifestations of recluse venom are thought to arise from Sphingomyelinase D. The enzyme acts on cell membranes. The action is therefore limited as the venom can only spread through a set area. The originally red swollen area becomes a dry black ulcer. Skin infections, in particular the widespread methicillin-resistant Staphylococcal aureus, remain swollen and red. Pus forms and the lesion often drains. It can continue to spread and expand as the bacteria grow. Other skin lesions and infections are much more common than spider bites. Physicians have reported brown recluse spider bites where no brown recluse exist. \"Ed: in 100 pictures retrieved online only 3 were consistent with Sphingomyelinase pathophysiology.\"\n\nDespite public concern about spider bites, severe envenomation is rare. Few spiders have toxins in sufficient volume to harm people. Of those that do, some have limited habitats. Spider behavior may be caused by limited human interaction. Spider defense against predators include camouflage, and escape by falling or running. Biting is a last resort and the amount of venom injected varies greatly. Spider venom toxicity can be evaluated in experimental animals, or reported from accidental bites. Different experimental animals have different reactions to the same venom. The dose that is lethal to half of the animals poisoned is the LD50 and those values for mice is below. The LD50 of many poisons is known for humans but not that of spider venom.\n\nSerious bites develop symptoms quickly, within the hour. While a serious medical condition may result (see latrodectims and loxocelism) fatalities are exceedingly rare. Appropriate medical treatment can improve speed of recovery. The scenario given in movies such as \"Arachnophobia\", where bite victims die within minutes, does not occur. Small children are considered an exception because the amount of venom dispersed throughout the body is many times the concentration in an adult. There is at least one recorded case of a small child dying within 15 minutes of a bite from a Sydney funnel-web spider; that death occurred before the development of an antivenom. Since the antivenom was developed there have been no fatalities due to this species.\n\nThe neurotoxic venoms of the Sydney funnel-web spider and the Brazilian wandering spider are both known to have lethal complications. For the Brazilian wandering spider only 1 out of 200 bites is serious \"Atrax robustus\" has a limited distribution and few bites are reported yearly.\n\nThe geographical range of the widow spiders is very great. As a result, far more people are exposed, worldwide, to widow bites than any other spider. Widow spiders bites are most often mild but may rarely cause serious complications in people. Fatalities had been reported as high as 5% of bites and as low as 0.2% of bites.\n\nLoxosceles live in areas of South America and the southern United States. There are populations of desert and Arizona recluse in the Western deserts of the United States, but bites are rarely reported from these species. In established areas many spiders may populate the home. Even still the \"reclusive\" nature of the spider limits true bites. Of note, more bites had been reprted in Florida than recluses ever found in the area.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> This value is based on experience with human exposures.<br>\n<nowiki>**</nowiki> Several other kinds of tarantulas in the pet trade are regarded as giving non-trivial bites. Tarantulas are typically far larger than spiders with the most toxic kinds of venom. However, the sheer volume of the venom may compensate for its lesser toxicity. The effects of a full envenomation are probably unknown for many species of tarantulas, so due caution is advisable.\n"}
{"id": "47630534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47630534", "title": "Pharmacists Council of Nigeria", "text": "Pharmacists Council of Nigeria\n\nThe Pharmacists Council of Nigeria (PCN) is a Federal Government Agency of Nigeria, established by Decree 91 of 1992 (now Act 91 of 1992)—due to transfer of power from military to civilian in 1999—to regulate and control the practice of pharmacy in Nigeria.\nIts responsibility is to control and regulate the practice of pharmacy throughout the Federation and the control of pharmaceutical education in Nigeria. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "23642173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23642173", "title": "Prajateerpu", "text": "Prajateerpu\n\nPrajateerpu was a participatory action research (PAR) initiative on the future of food and farming in Andhra Pradesh that took place on 25 June – 1 July 2001 at the Government of India's Farmer Liaison Centre (KVK) in Algole Village, Zaheerabad Taluk, Medak District, Andhra Pradesh, India. Initiated by a coalition of local community groups, it involved the participation of marginal-livelihood citizens from Andhra Pradesh and drew on approaches such as the citizens' jury and scenario workshops.\n\nAt a meeting held at the UK Houses of Parliament on 18 March 2002, a smallholder from the Indian state of Andhra Pradesh stood up to launch a report in which she gave a personal account of a controversial participation process called Prajateerpu (Telegu for 'people's verdict'). Anjamma and her fellow jurors concluded that genetically modified crops would have little foreseeable impact on reducing malnutrition in Andhra Pradesh, and also expressed concern over the impact that reliance on artificial fertilizers and pesticides would have on smallholders in the region. They called for local self-sufficiency and endogenous development in farming and food, thereby joining a growing global movement for food sovereignty.\n\n"}
{"id": "5993748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5993748", "title": "Rancho Los Amigos Scale", "text": "Rancho Los Amigos Scale\n\nThe Rancho Los Amigos Scale (RLAS), a.k.a. the Rancho Los Amigos Levels of Cognitive Functioning Scale (LOCF) or Rancho Scale, is a medical scale used to assess individuals after a closed head injury, including traumatic brain injury, based on cognitive and behavioural presentations as they emerge from coma. It is named after the Rancho Los Amigos National Rehabilitation Center, located in Downey, California, United States in Los Angeles County.\n\nAfter being assessed based on the LOCF, individuals with brain injury receive a score from one to eight. A score of one represents non-responsive cognitive functioning, whereas a score of eight represents purposeful and appropriate functioning.\nEach of the eight levels represents the typical sequential progression of recovery from brain damage. However, individuals progress at different rates and may plateau at any stage of recovery. These patients are scored based on combinations of the following criteria:\n\n\nLOCF scores are used by the health care professionals for standardized communication about patient status and can be used by physiatrists, physical therapists, occupational therapists, recreational therapists, and speech language pathologists as the basis for treatment planning.\n\nThis eight-level scale was found to possess test-retest and interrater reliability as well as concurrent and predictive validity. It is widely used clinically and is often paired with the Glasgow Coma Scale in health care facilities.\n\n"}
{"id": "28273474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28273474", "title": "Smoking in Germany", "text": "Smoking in Germany\n\nUnder federal law the manufacture, importation, distribution, and advertisement of tobacco is regulated whilst the 16 federal states of Germany each have their own legislation regarding smoking in public places, which range from relatively weak regulations to full smoking bans in all licensed premises, childcare facilities, schools and governmental institutions. As of July 2016, nearly 40% of the German population live in a state which bans smoking in all restaurants, pubs, cafés and nightclubs (Bavaria, North Rhine-Westphalia, Saarland). The other 13 states permit smoking in designated rooms or in bars with a floor area of less than 75 square meters.\n\nAccording to a 2013 micro-census survey, 24.5% of the German population aged fifteen years and over are smokers (29% of men, 20% of women). Among the 18-25 age group, 35.2% are smokers.\n\nAccording to a 2013 microcensus, about one in four (24.5%) people aged 15 years and over was a smoker, 20.9% regularly, and only 3.6 occasionally. The rate of ex-smokers was 19.3%. The average age at which smokers begin is 17.8 years of age (in the age group of 15- to 20-year-olds the average age is 15.4 years)\n\nIn 2010, an average of 229 million cigarettes were smoked every day, corresponding to 1,021 cigarettes per capita.\n\nAmount of smoked cigarettes per day by age per Sozio-oekonomische Panel (SOEP) .\nAverage amount of cigarettes smoked daily, by year.\n\nSince 2003 it is illegal to label a tobacco product as \"light\", \"mild\", \"low-tar” or any other misleading form of advertisement which could cause the impression that the product causes less damage than other tobacco products.\n\nAll radio and television advertisement for tobacco products was banned in 1975. This regulation was extended by the \"Rundfunkstaatsvertrag\" on August 1, 1999, banning any kind of sponsoring of television and radio shows. In 2002, the \"Protection of Young Persons Act\" banned the advertising of tobacco products in cinemas before 6 p.m. On January 1, 2007, the European Tobacco advertisement directive came into effect, banning the advertising of tobacco products on the internet, in newspapers and magazines. The regulation also banned sponsorship of any event which is broadcast internationally. Germany is the only EU member state to still legally permit billboard and cinema advertising for tobacco products.\n\nIn accordance with EU Tobacco Products Directive II, all sold cigarettes, rolling tobacco and hookah tobacco manufacturers have to cover 65% of the packaging with combined pictorial and textual warning labels on both sides, in addition to additional warning labels on the any smaller sides since May 2017.\n\nIn Germany the amount of tobacco and the value of the product is used to calculate the tax (§ 3 TabakStG). In order to calculate the tobacco tax for each package the number of cigarettes, cigars and cigarillos or the quantity in grams (smoking tobacco) and the retail selling price is required. The information is printed on the \"Steuerbanderole\" (tax strip) of each tobacco package in full Euro and cent values.\n\nIn 2002 and 2003, the tobacco tax was increased to finance anti-terrorist measures. In 2004 and 2005 three increases followed to financially support health insurance. In 2010 tax increases were decided for the next 5 successive years starting May 1, 2011 over January 1, 2012 to January 1, 2015.\n\nAs of 2015, the tobacco tax rate was 9.82 cents per cigarette and 21.69 percent of the retail price, which makes a minimum sum of 19.636 cents per cigarette minus the sales tax of the retail selling price.\n\nUnder Germany's \"Protection of Young Persons Act\" it is unlawful to sell or supply any tobacco product to anyone who is under eighteen years of age. It is also illegal to permit minors to smoke in any public place. Although it is not a crime for minors to purchase, attempt to purchase or consume tobacco products it is unlawful for any retailer or other responsible person to sell, supply or tolerate the consumption of tobacco by a person underage. If a minor is found smoking in public, the police have a duty to seize the tobacco products.\n\nPrior to September 1, 2007 the minimum age for purchasing and smoking tobacco products had been 16 years. Until January 1, 2009 all tobacco vending machines had to be removed or refitted to ensure that minors could not purchase tobacco products from them. Since then, all vending machines require some form of identification before dispensing tobacco, usually an Electronic cash bank card, German identity card or European driving licence, to verify that the buyer is at least 18 years of age.\n\nIt is unlawful to sell any tobacco product in a package containing less than 19 cigarettes or 30 grams of loose fine-cut tobacco. To ensure this is the case, retailers may not destroy a tax strip on tobacco packaging. The law provides an exception for cigarillos and cigars under certain conditions.\n\nSelling tobacco products for more or less than the retail sale price set by the manufacturer and printed on the tax strip is unlawful. The only exception is when providing free samples to a customer for advertising purpose.\n\nTobacco products may not be used as a prize in any form of commercial gaming or gambling.\n\nAdding or supplying anything else than the tobacco product to a package of cigarettes, cigars or cigarillos except for change is unlawful.\n\nThe \"Federal non-smoking act\" has introduced a smoking ban for the following public places and facilities:\nThe law does not apply to any residential or accommodation facility given to residents for personal use. And for separated smoking facilities if the conditions apply which are set by the federal government.\n\n"}
{"id": "32940342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32940342", "title": "Teunissen–Cremers syndrome", "text": "Teunissen–Cremers syndrome\n\nTeunissen–Cremers syndrome is a genetic disorder that presents with skeleton defects some of which can include the bones of the inner ear, fingers and toes. This can result in conductive hearing loss and finger deformities.\n"}
{"id": "30511288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30511288", "title": "Ticha Reservoir", "text": "Ticha Reservoir\n\nTicha Reservoir (, \"yazovir Ticha\") is a reservoir in Varbitsa Municipality, Shumen Province, northeastern Bulgaria, located to the north and northeast of the town of Varbitsa. It is one of the largest lakes of Bulgaria. The Ticha Dam is located in the northeastern part of the reservoir, in the southeastern part of Kotel Mountain.\n\nThe reservoir lies along the Golyama Kamchia River, one of the two rivers that merge to form the Kamchia. Before entering the reservoir, the river gathers waters from the hilly Gerlovo region. The name of the reservoir is derived from the medieval name of the Kamchia: the Ticha.\n\nAccording to some measurements, it is the third-largest reservoir in Bulgaria. By design, the Ticha Reservoir is used mainly for irrigation; the total area which the reservoir can irrigate is . The Ticha Reservoir's total volume amounts to . The construction of the reservoir meant that two villages, Vinitsa and Staroselka, were depopulated and flooded; their commons now lie within the reservoir.\n\nThe dam overflowed in July 2005 and July 2010, threatening the surrounding villages and land. Due to this, the water level of the reservoir is closely monitored and dykes have been built. Unlike the 2005 flood, which caused significant damage in the village of Byal Bryag, the 2010 overflow did not lead to floods in the neighbouring populated places.\n\nIn February 2010, the tap water in Shumen, which comes from the Ticha Reservoir, was declared unsuitable for drinking as a result of the presence of \"E. coli\" strains.\n"}
{"id": "12367362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12367362", "title": "Trilogy of Fallot", "text": "Trilogy of Fallot\n\nThe trilogy of Fallot is a congenital heart disease consisting of the following defects: pulmonary valve stenosis, right ventricular hypertrophy and atrial septal defect. This disease is 1.6-1.8% of all congenital heart defects.\n\nIt consists of the following:\n\nThe first two of these are also found in the tetralogy of Fallot. However, the tetralogy has a ventricular septal defect instead of an atrial one, and it also involves an overriding aorta.\nThoracotomy is used to surgically correct this pathology.\n\nIt is named in honor of its discoverer: Etienne Fallot.\n"}
{"id": "833223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=833223", "title": "United States Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions", "text": "United States Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions\n\nThe United States Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) generally considers matters relating to these issues. Its jurisdiction extends beyond these issues to include several more specific areas, as defined by Senate rules.\n\nWhile currently known as the HELP Committee, the first iteration of this committee was founded on January 28, 1869 as the Committee on Education. The committee name was changed to the Committee on Education and Labor on February 14, 1870, when petitions relating to labor were added to their jurisdiction from the Committee on Naval Affairs.\n\nThe committee’s jurisdiction at the end of the 19th and early 20th centuries focused on issues relating to federal employees’ working conditions and federal education aid. Prominent issues considered by the committee in the 1910s and 1920s included the creation of a minimum wage, the establishments of a Department of Labor, a Department of Education, and a Children’s Bureau. During the 1930s, the committee took action on the National Labor Relations Act, the Walsh-Healey Public Contracts Act of 1936 and the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938.\n\nIn 1944, the jurisdiction of the Public Health Service was transferred from the Commerce Committee over to the Committee on Education and Labor, resulting in the committee taking over issues relating to public health matters. The name of the committee changed during the 80th Congress to the Committee on Labor and Public Welfare, which was part of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (Public Law 79-601). As part of this bill, the jurisdiction of the committee was expanded to include the issues of rehabilitation, health, and education of veterans. Mine safety legislation was also added to the committee’s jurisdiction in 1949.\n\nDuring the Johnson Administration, the committee established itself as the principal committee for the legislation pertaining to the War on Poverty, as part of the Economic Opportunity Act of 1964. Through the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1970 (Public Law 91-510), certain issues pertaining to veterans were transferred to the newly created Committee on Veterans Affairs. In the 95th Congress, the Senate passed S. Res. 4 which renamed the committee to be the Committee on Human Resources. However, the name was again changed in the 96th Congress in S. Res. 30 to become the Committee on Labor and Human Resources. On March 18, 1992, the committee’s jurisdiction was updated to include all of the areas listed below. The current name of the Committee, the Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions, was created on January 19, 1999 in S. Res. 20.\n\nUnder the Rule 25 of the Standing Rules of the Senate, the following subject matters fall under the jurisdiction of the Committee.\n\nSource \n\nThe Committee was chaired by Democrat Ted Kennedy of Massachusetts until his death on August 25, 2009. Under seniority rules, Acting Chairman Christopher Dodd was next in line, but chose instead to remain chairman of the Senate Banking Committee. Tom Harkin, next in line for seniority, assumed the chairmanship on September 9, 2009, vacating his post as chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee.\n\nSource: ,\n\nThe chairman of the committee is Democrat Tom Harkin of Iowa, and the Ranking Member is Republican Mike Enzi of Wyoming.\n\nSource: \n\nSource: to 297\n\nSource: to 68\n\nThe committee has had other subcommittees in the past, such as:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
