{"id": "17743774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17743774", "title": "2008 US beef protest in South Korea", "text": "2008 US beef protest in South Korea\n\nThe 2008 US beef protest in South Korea was a series of protest demonstrations between 24 May 2008 and about 18 July 2008 in Seoul, Korea. At its height, the protest involved tens of thousands of people. The protest began after the South Korean government reversed a ban on US beef imports. The ban had been in place since December 2003, when the prion responsible for bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE), or 'mad cow disease' was detected in US beef cattle. The protests occurred on a background of talks concerning the US-Korea free trade agreement. Unrest was fanned by local media reports such as the Munhwa Broadcasting Corporation (MBC) \"PD Notebook\" program \"Is American Beef Really Safe from Mad Cow Disease?\" televised on 27 April 2008.\n\nControversy in South Korea over U.S. beef isn't new, but has been largely dormant for the past four years. In 2008, the then new Lee Myung-bak government agreed, after extensive negotiations, to restart imports, which had been halted since cases of mad cow disease were found in the United States in 2003.\n\nThat decision set off a firestorm of controversy, leading hundreds of thousands of citizens to come out in the spring and early summer of 2008 in protest over the resumed imports. Sensationalist media reports and online rumors fueled speculation that the new president was recklessly putting South Koreans' health at risk of contracting bovine spongiform encephalopathy, better known as mad cow disease. The deal has sparked public outrage amid widespread perceptions, fanned in part by sensational media reports, MBC PD Notebook, that it exposes the country to a higher risk of mad cow disease.\n\nOn 23 December 2003, a first case of BSE in the US was found in Washington state. The Holstein cow had been imported from Canada in 2001. On 9 December the 6.5-year-old cow was slaughtered. The cow was a \"downer\" (a cow that is unable to walk). For that reason, the US Department of Agriculture (USDA) was automatically notified; and the cow was examined before and after its death by a government vet. The vet determined that the cow was suffering from complications of calving. Samples of tissue were taken for further testing for BSE. Parts of the cow with a high risk of transmitting the BSE prion were removed but may have been sent for \"inedible rendering\" into food for non-ruminant animals. The carcass itself was allowed to continue on for further processing into human food at other facilities. On 23 December 2003 when tests proved positive for BSE, a recall was made. The contaminated meat had not entered the commercial market. Offspring of the cow were destroyed. South Korea, Japan, Singapore, Malaysia and Taiwan banned imports of US beef.\nThe head of the US FDA at the time was Ann M. Veneman, a former lobbyist for the food industry.\n\nBy 2006, sixty-five nations had full or partial restrictions on the importation of US beef. Export sales of US beef fell from $3.8 billion in 2003 to $1.4 billion in 2005.\nAn attempt to reopen the South Korean market to US beef imports in 2006 (restricted to boneless meat from cattle less than 30 months old) failed when the South Korean government discovered bone chips in a shipment of 3.2 tons of meat.\nSporadic attempts made in the following year also failed for similar reasons.\n\nOn 17 January 2008 representatives of the president of South Korea met with Alexander Vershbow, the U.S. ambassador to South Korea to discuss beef imports. Further talks were held between 11 and 17 April 2008. On 18 April U.S. and South Korean negotiators reached an agreement on the sanitary rules that Korea would require of U.S. beef imports. The agreement allowed imports of all cuts of U.S. beef (both boneless and bone-in) and certain beef products, including those from cattle over 30 months old. Processors had to remove material known to risk BSE prion transmission. President Lee visited President George W. Bush at Camp David on 20 April 2008. The U.S. reported,\n\nPresident Bush welcomed the decision of the Korean government to resume the import of U.S. beef, based on international standards and science. The two presidents pledged to make every effort to urge their respective legislatures to approve the KORUS FTA (Korean US Free trade agreement) within this year.\n\nDemonstrators accused Lee of reversing the ban on imports of U.S. beef in haste, giving the U.S. unwarranted concessions, so that Korea would receive a favorable reception, particularly with respect to ratifying the proposed free trade agreement. The demonstrators said Lee had abandoned his duty of care to the people of South Korea for political gain by ignoring their concern about BSE prion transmission and by lowering tariffs on imported beef. Korea agreed to remove a 40% tariff on beef muscle meat imported from the U.S. for a period of 15 years. Korea could however, impose temporary tariffs if there was a surge of U.S. beef imports above specified levels.\n\nOn 27 April 2008, MBC televised a program called \"Is American Beef Really Safe from Mad Cow Disease?\" The program precipitated mass demonstrations. After a complaint was received from the South Korean agriculture ministry, the Seoul central prosecutors' office formed a team of five to investigate the program's content.\n\n\"Downer\" cows are animals presented for slaughter that are sick or unable to walk. One of many causes for a downer is BSE. MBC was criticised for broadcasting footage of downer cows with translated subtitles that suggested they suffered from BSE, whereas they were filmed because of animal cruelty concerns, not BSE.\n\nAretha Vinson was a 21-year-old student at Virginia state university. She died on 9 April 2008 of Wernicke's encephalopathy. The MBC broadcast showed footage of Vinson's mother speaking about her daughter's illness. Translated subtitles suggested Vinson had vCJD, but that was only one initial diagnostic possibility.\n\nConcerns that some commentators raised about the program included, MBC's statements about a genetic vulnerability of Koreans to CJD; the US exporting cattle over 30 months old to Korea rather than selling it to the domestic market; and, the risk of contracting CJD by consuming beef products such as powdered soup base in instant noodles, cosmetics, and gelatin medication.\n\nDemonstrations involving tens of thousands of people began shortly after the first broadcast, and increased when MBC aired another segment two weeks later.\n\nMBC became the subject of legal action. On 12 August 2008, the Korea Communications Commission called for MBC to apologise to the public over misrepresentations made in the PD notebook program. \nMBC apologised a two-minute broadcast, saying,\n\nWe would like to offer a sincere apology to our viewers [over the report].\n\nMBC conceded that six translation errors had been made and that downer cattle had been mistakenly identified as suffering from BSE.\n\nThe government of South Korea directed its prosecutors office to investigate alleged actions of the MBC including mis-representations made by the PD Notebook program; aggravation of civil unrest; and, defamation of the minister for agriculture. In June 2009, four producers and one writer were indicted on the charges. In January 2010, the MBC staff were exonerated by judges of the Seoul central district court. The supreme court upheld the findings.\n\nSome commentators argue that there is a long-held and perpetual \"culture of protest\" in South Korea involving groups ranging from anarchists to social reformers. Anti US beef protests began on 24 May 2008. After the MBC \"PD Notebook\" broadcast, the US beef protests in Seoul increased. A three-day demonstration held in relay took place from 5 June 2008 to 7 June 2008. Attendance peaked on the evening of 10 June 2008, (80,000 protestors in attendance) before declining. (Photographs depicting the demonstrations from \"Reuters\", \"Getty Images\" and \"AFP\" are published here.)\n\nInternet and text messaging also assisted in publicising the movement. With ready access to social media, among the first to protest were teenage schoolgirls. A teenage schoolgirl holding a lit candle became the symbol of the anti-US beef protests. Comments made by some protestors had little basis in science.\n\nAfter the initial demonstration, the area in front of Seoul's city hall, as well as the adjoining streets, were occupied by demonstrators. Early in the protest, a festival like atmosphere prevailed as protesters of all walks of life, built a makeshift tent city on the lawn at Seoul Plaza. However, some massive, disruptive and sometimes aggressive demonstrations and street marches were held each night, particularly at weekends.\nThus, the protest had two faces: more peaceful during the day and more violent at night. About 200 protestors required hospital treatment.\n\nOn 1 June 2008, police took action to control demonstrators. Buses and shipping containers were used to halt the progress of street marches. A barrier of shipping containers were erected across Sejong-Ro to stop marchers from reaching Cheongwadae (office and residence of the president). The protestors named the barrier, \"Myung-bak's Fortress\" and decorated it with leaflets and large Korean flags. They photographed themselves standing on the barrier. It was dismantled several days later without conflict. Water cannons were used to suppress protestors. Some demonstrators were detained for questioning. The Amnesty International report on the human rights aspects of the demonstrations is published here. The report said,\n\nThe approval rating of Lee fell below 20%. Prime Minister Han Seung-soo and other cabinet members submitted their resignations to President Lee. On 22 May and then again on 18 June 2008, Lee apologised for ignoring public health concerns. Lee said,\n\nI should have paid attention to what people want. Sitting on a hill near Cheongwadae on the night of 10 June, watching the candlelight vigil, I blamed myself for not serving the people better.\n\nLee also delayed the announcement of any further relaxation of beef importation rules, for example, importation of meat from cattle over 30 months of age.\nOn 2 July 2008, Han Seung-soo, Prime Minister of South Korea bought 260,000 Korean won (roughly US$230–$260) worth of U.S. steak to eat with his family at his official residence to alleviate public worries about U.S. beef. The same amount of Korean beef would have cost approximately 800,000 Korean won (roughly $700–$800, three times more expensive than imported U.S. beef).\n\nOn 22 June 2008, an American trade envoy headed by Susan C. Schwab, agreed with the Korean prime minister and agriculture minister to limit the export of meat to that from carcasses of cattle less than 30 months old with government certification of their age and to allow Korea to inspect a sample of U.S. slaughterhouses. The agreement also included the banning of importation to Korea of meat from cattle organs considered high risk for transmission of the BSE prion such as brains, eyes, skulls and spinal cord. Schwab said,\n\nWe look forward to safe, affordable, high-quality American beef – the same beef enjoyed by hundreds of millions of U.S. consumers and people in countries around the world – soon arriving on Korean tables.\n\nTom Casey, deputy spokesman at the U.S. State Department rejected the notion that the U.S. had bullied S. Korea into removing the 2003 ban on U.S. beef imports and said,\n\n[The U.S. and S. Korea] have a long history of military and security cooperation. I don't think this or any other individual issues are going to change the fundamental relations (between the two countries).\n\nFrom December 2009 to December 2010 the US meat export federation (USMEF) used a 3 phase project called, \"To trust\". It was an image campaign, designed to increase the trust of Koreans in US beef. It depicted three women who were mothers and homemakers. One was a rancher, one a scientist and one a food safety inspector.\n\nIn 2009, a small number of demonstrators commemorated the anniversary of the 2008 protests. They forcibly occupied the Hi! Seoul Festival stage in front of the city hall in central Seoul. The police removed the protestors.\n\nKim Dae-joong (not to be confused with former Korean President and Nobel Peace Prize winner Kim Dae-jung), a columnist at the \"Korea Times\", wrote in his editorial piece: \"It amounts to double-crossing to be really fond of America in all substantive matters, while bad-mouthing America in public protests.\"\n\nOn 1 July 2008, U.S. beef imports resumed. In 2009, the US exported 141 million lbs of beef to South Korea worth $215 million.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38840823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38840823", "title": "2013 Arab League summit", "text": "2013 Arab League summit\n\nThe 2013 Arab League Summit was held in Doha, Qatar from 21 to 27 March 2013.\nOn 26 March, the League recognised the \nNational Coalition for Syrian Revolutionary and Opposition Forces, as the legitimate representatives of the Syrian people. The National Coalition was henceforth granted Damascus' seat at the summit. This act of recognition was opposed by Algeria, Iraq & Lebanon.\n"}
{"id": "54566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54566", "title": "7 Up", "text": "7 Up\n\n7 Up (stylized as 7up outside the U.S.) is a brand of lemon-lime-flavored non-caffeinated soft drink. The rights to the brand are held by Keurig Dr Pepper in the United States and by PepsiCo (or its licensees) in the rest of the world. The U.S. version of the \"7 Up\" logo includes a red circle between the \"7\" and \"Up\"; this red circle has been animated and used as a mascot for the brand as Cool Spot.\n\n7 Up was created by Charles Leiper Grigg, who launched his St. Louis–based company The Howdy Corporation in 1920. Grigg came up with the formula for a lemon-lime soft drink in 1929. The product, originally named \"Bib-Label Lithiated Lemon-Lime Soda\", was launched two weeks before the Wall Street Crash of 1929. It contained lithium citrate, a mood-stabilizing drug, until 1948. It was one of a number of patent medicine products popular in the late-19th and early-20th centuries. Its name was later shortened to \"7 Up Lithiated Lemon Soda\" before being further shortened to just \"7 Up\" by 1936.\n\nA myth exists that the 7 Up name comes from the drink having a pH over 7. That would make it neutral or basic on the scale; however, this is not the case, as the 7 Up pH is close to 3.79, similar to other drinks of the type. The real origin of the name is unclear, though Britvic claims that the name comes from the seven main ingredients in the drink, while others have claimed that the number was a coded reference to the lithium contained in the original recipe, which has an atomic mass around 7. Britvic also claims that the name be a result of the fact that 7 Up was bottled in 7-ounce bottles (Coca-Cola and most other soft drinks were bottled in 6-ounce bottles). Other research has been made and it is known that 7up got the name from the candy bar seven up. A man Pearson sold the name to a company and then discontinued the candy. \n\nWestinghouse bought 7 Up in 1969 and sold it in 1978 to Philip Morris, who then in 1986 sold it in two parts: the international division to Pepsico and the U.S. business to a group led by the investment firm Hicks & Haas. In the U.S., 7 Up merged with Dr Pepper in 1988; Cadbury Schweppes bought the combined company in 1995. The Dr Pepper Snapple Group was spun off from Cadbury Schweppes in 2008; it merged with Keurig Green Mountain in 2018 to form Keurig Dr Pepper.\n\n7 Up has been reformulated several times since its launch in 1929. In 2006, the version of the product sold in the U.S. was reformulated so it could be marketed as being \"100% natural\". This was achieved by eliminating the chelating agent calcium disodium EDTA, and replacing sodium citrate with potassium citrate to reduce the beverage's sodium content. This reformulation contains no fruit juice and, in the U.S., is sweetened with high-fructose corn syrup (HFCS). The manufacturing process used in the production of HFCS has led some public health and advocacy groups to challenge the ad campaign's \"natural\" claims. In 2007, after the Center for Science in the Public Interest threatened to sue 7 Up, it was announced that 7 Up would stop being marketed as \"100% natural\". Instead, it is now promoted as having \"100% Natural Flavors\". The controversy does not extend to other countries, such as the United Kingdom, where HFCS is not generally used in foods, including 7 Up. In 2011, 7 Up began test marketing a formula, called 7 Up Retro, using sugar rather than HFCS. Container labels sport the caption, \"Made With Real Sugar\".\n\n7 Up Ten: Introduced in 2013, along with \"Ten\" variations for most of the major Dr. Pepper/Seven-Up brands, this contains 10 calories. It is a blend using high fructose corn syrup along with aspartame and acesulfame potassium to sweeten it.\n\nTropical 7 Up: Introduced in 2014 for a limited time, as well as a return in 2015 with newer branding, this is a pineapple/mango-flavored 7 Up.\n\n7 Up Retro: This 2011 formulation uses sugar rather than HFCS as its sweetener. Introduced on the 2011 season finale of \"The Apprentice\", packaging in 12-oz. cans features either the 1970s disco mirrorball-themed logo or the 1980s logo. It is also available in 12-oz. glass bottles with a label inspired by 7 Up's original logo.\n\nDiet 7 Up: This diet soda was originally introduced in 1963 as Like (not to be confused with 7 Up's Like Cola from the 1980s), it was discontinued in 1969 due to the U.S. government ban of cyclamate sweetener. After reformulation, it was reintroduced as Diet 7 Up in 1970. It was renamed Sugar Free 7 Up in 1973 then back to Diet 7 Up in 1979. Diet 7 Up was reformulated and advertised as being sweetened with Splenda (sucralose); the formula has been retooled and listed these ingredients: filtered carbonated water, natural flavors, citric acid, potassium citrate, potassium benzoate, aspartame, acesulfame potassium, calcium disodium EDTA. The ingredients for Diet 7 Up with Splenda are: filtered carbonated water, natural flavors, citric acid, potassium citrate, potassium benzoate, calcium disodium EDTA, acesulfame potassium, sucralose. The 7 Up Company claims they switched back to aspartame because they conducted a nationwide study showing that people preferred the taste with aspartame instead of with Splenda.\nCherry 7 Up: A cherry-flavored variant, it was introduced in 1987. Cherry 7 Up flavor, with these ingredients listed for the United States version: Carbonated water, high fructose corn syrup, citric acid, natural and artificial flavors, potassium benzoate, red 40. One known ingredient among the \"natural and artificial flavors\" is apple juice. The version sold in the United States is colored pink and comes in a clear bottle, while the international version is colorless and currently comes in a pink bottle. It was renamed and reformulated as Cherry 7 Up Antioxidant in January 2009. It contains 10% of U.S. daily recommended vitamin E dosage per 8 fl oz serving . On November 8, 2012, Keurig Dr Pepper said they will pull 7 Up with antioxidants off the shelves to reformulate them by 2013. They also said that its decision was not related to the lawsuit, but because of consistency across the board.\n\nDiet Cherry 7 Up: Diet Cherry 7 Up has recently been reintroduced due to popular demand after having been missing due to the existence of 7 Up Plus Cherry flavor. Ingredients are: filtered carbonated water and contains 2% or less of each of the following: citric acid, natural and artificial flavors, potassium benzoate (protects flavor), aspartame, potassium citrate, acesulfame potassium, red 40. Phenylketonurics: Contains phenylalanine.\n\nOrange 7 Up: This flavor was available for a short time in Norway during the mid-1990s. It was released at the same time as Raspberry 7 Up. It was a clear-colored lemon-, lime-, and orange-flavored soft drink. It was pulled off the market after 2–3 years. Today, Orange 7 Up can still be bought in Austria. , it is available in the Netherlands.\n\nRaspberry 7 Up: This flavor was available for a short time in Norway and Denmark (and possibly other European countries) during the late '80s. It was released at the same time as Orange 7 Up. It was a clear lemon-, lime-, and raspberry-flavoured soft drink. It was pulled off the European market after 2–3 years, but can still be found in several Southeast Asian countries such as Singapore.\n\n7 Up Free: 7 Up Free is sold in Iceland, UK, Ireland, Spain, Norway, Argentina, Finland, UAE, Uruguay, Pakistan, and the Netherlands. It contains no caffeine, sugar, colorings, or preservatives, and is marketed as \"Natural Lemon and Lime Flavour\" similar to the \"100% natural\" American version. It contains a combination of artificial sugars, and for eight years was the only variety on the Norwegian market. The lack of the usual light or zero-label is confusing to Norwegian consumers, who often buy it not knowing they are buying a product with artificial sugars. In the UK, 7 Up Free has been sold in a 600-ml, rather than 500-ml bottle since early 2010. This is part of 7 Up's UK manufacturer Britvic's healthy-living push whereby sugar-free product versions are sold in a larger bottle.\n\n7 Up Light: In international markets, Pepsico sells 7 Up Light as the diet version of 7 Up.\n\n7 Up Lime: 7 Up Lime is sold in the U.S. and Argentina. In the U.S., it is not as strong and is less carbonated. In Argentina, it is much more carbonated and has 5% lime juice.\n\n7 Up Cherry: 7 Up Cherry is a variant currently available in the UK and France. It is a different drink from Cherry 7 Up and uses a different recipe.\n7 UP Revive: 7UP Revive is a variant of the 7 UP brand which is available in India (launched in 2015) and Laos and is marketed as a hydrotonic.\n\nSalted Lemon 7 Up: Salted Lemon 7 Up is a drink originating in Hong Kong, which is made of salted lemon and 7 Up. It is a common drink that can be found in dai pai dong and cha chaan teng. It is also named one of the Hong Kong summer drinks by Cathay Pacific Discovery.\n\n7 Up Mojito Flavour: This flavour was launched in France in 2014 and has also been available in the UK and Ireland since early 2016. The version sold in the UK is based on 7 Up Free and contains no sugar, colour, or caffeine.\n\nIn 2007, Cadbury Schweppes entered into a licensing partnership with Vita Food Products to produce a line of barbecue sauces and marinades flavored with Dr Pepper, 7 Up, and A&W Root Beer.\n\n7 Up Gold: 7 Up Gold was marketed for a short time in 1988 as a spice-flavored beverage, similar to Vernor's Ginger Ale. Though 7 Up's marketing slogan at that time was \"Never Had It, Never Will\" (referring to caffeine), 7 Up Gold included caffeine as an ingredient. It was introduced by 7 Up in the hopes of capturing 1% of the cola market, which at the time was $26.6 billion. However, it only captured 0.1% of the market because people were confused by 7 Up marketing a dark-colored soft drink with caffeine, so it was discontinued. The 7 Up Gold recipe was actually an unused Dr Pepper invention.\n\n7 Up Ice Cola: Introduced in 1995 by Pepsi for the international market, it was a clear cola, in essence a repackaging of Crystal Pepsi. It was not as popular as hoped and was discontinued.\n\ndnL / 7 Upside Down: dnL was the name of a soft drink produced by Cadbury Schweppes Americas Beverages in the United States. It was part of the 7 Up family of soft drinks, and was introduced in September 2002. It was launched in the same year as other attempts to extend soft drink brand names with new variations, including Pepsi Blue, Dr Pepper Red Fusion, and Vanilla Coke. It was arguably poorly marketed, and while it remained listed as an official product of the company in late 2005, it was scheduled to be discontinued for 2006 in favor of the \"7 Up Plus\" brand.\nThe product's name came from the fact that the \"dnL\" logo is the \"7 Up\" logo turned upside down. The product itself was also, in many ways, the opposite of 7 Up: while 7 Up is caffeine-free, colorless, and comes in a green bottle, dnL contained caffeine and was an unusual shade of green (vaguely similar to the green of 7 Up's bottle) in a clear bottle. And while 7 Up has a fairly standard lemon-lime flavor, the \"citrus\" flavor of dnL is that of lime-lemon, (primarily lime flavored with a hint of lemon).\n\n7 Up Citrus Splash: Available in Canada from Pepsico, citrus and lemon-lime.\n\n7 Up Lemon Squeeze: Available in Canada from Pepsico, similar to Sierra Mist Lemon Squeeze\n\n7 Up Tropical: Available in France from Pepsico\n\n7 Up Tropical Splash: Available in Canada from Pepsico in the early 2000s.\n\n7 Up Plus: 7 Up Plus was a family of fruit-flavored soft drinks, produced by Cadbury-Schweppes. Touted as a healthy alternative, it contained no caffeine and has 2 grams of carbohydrates per serving, as well as 5% apple juice, which is uncommon among American market carbonated beverages. It is sweetened with Splenda, and the original flavor, Mixed Berry, was released in summer 2004. Two additional flavors have been added to the line: Cherry and Island Fruit. In Ireland in 2007, 7 Up launched a range of flavored water.\n\n7 Up Pomegranate: Available in the U.S. once a year during the holidays\n\n7 Up Frootaz: Tropical flavor variant available in the Philippines marketed by Pepsico for a short time in the 2000s, and then discontinued\n\n7 Up Yerbabuena: Available for a limited time only in Colombia in 2013\n\nIn the 1970s and 1980s, Geoffrey Holder appeared in television ads as part of 7 Up's \"Uncola\" ad campaign, designed to highlight differences between 7 Up and other soft drinks on the market with cola flavoring. In the ads, Geoffrey holds a pair of cola nuts in one hand and a lemon & lime (used to flavor 7 Up) in the other hand and describes them as \"Uncola nuts.\" \n\nThe television cartoon character Fido Dido was used as a mascot from the late 1980s through the early 1990s, and was reintroduced in international markets in the early 2000s.\n\nFresh-Up Freddie was the rooster mascot for 7 Up in the 1950s. He gave viewers lessons about how to plan successful parties and picnics by having a plenty of 7 Up on hand. The commercials were produced by Disney, giving the character the specific Disney look of the time. Freddie has been described as a hybrid of the rooster Panchito Pistoles from \"The Three Caballeros\" and the zany Aracuan Bird from the same film. He often was dressed in human clothes. Freddie also appeared in the 1957 \"Zorro\" TV series' commercial intermissions. Here, he was put against Pete the Cat. Freddie, who was featured in a small amount of merchandising, was voiced by Paul Frees.\n\n"}
{"id": "67039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=67039", "title": "Active solar", "text": "Active solar\n\nSolar hot water systems use pumps or fans to circulate fluid (often a mixture of water and glycol to prevent freezing during winter periods) or air, through solar collectors, and are therefore classified under active solar technology.\n\nSome of the basic benefits of active systems is that controls (usually electrical) can be used to maximize their effectiveness. For example, a passive solar thermal array which does not rely on pumps and sensors will only start circulating when a certain amount of internal energy has built up in the system. Using sensors and pumps, a relatively small amount of energy (i.e. that used to power a pump and controller) can harvest a far larger amount of available thermal energy by switching on as soon as a useful temperature differential becomes present. Controls also allow a greater variety of choices for utilizing the energy that becomes available. For example, a solar thermal array could heat a swimming pool on a relatively cool morning where heating a domestic hot water cylinder was impractical due to the different stored water temperatures. Later in the day as the temperature rises the controls could be used to switch the solar heated water over to the cylinder instead.\n\nDisadvantages of active solar systems include that the external power sources can fail (probably rendering them useless) and that controls require maintenance.\n\nMost solar collectors are fixed in their array position mounting, but can have a higher performance if they track the path of the sun through the sky (however it is unusual for thermal collectors to be mounted in this way). Solar trackers, used to orient solar arrays may be driven by either passive or active technology, and can have a significant gain in energy yield over the course of a year when compared to a fixed array. Again passive solar tracking would rely on the inherent thermo-dynamic properties of the materials used in the system rather than an external power source to generate its tracking movement. Active Solar Tracking would use sensors and motors track the path of the sun across the sky. This action can be caused by geographical and time data being programmed into the controls. However, some systems actually track the brightest point in the sky using light sensors, and manufacturers claim this can add a significant extra yield over and above geographical tracking.\n\n\nPassive examples:\n-a tree in front of windows (a deciduous tree) \n-windows (large facing south, smaller facing north)\n\nActive examples:\n-collectors (solar panels)\n-storage (water heaters)\n-dispurts(pumps)\n\n"}
{"id": "34683774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34683774", "title": "Annie Aves", "text": "Annie Aves\n\nIsabel Annie Aves (née Michaelsen) (18 March 1887–15 October 1938) was a New Zealand abortionist. She was born in Waipawa, Hawke's Bay, New Zealand on 18 March 1887. Aves ran an abortion business from her home in Napier using \"sea-tangle tents\" (probably \"Laminaria digitata\" seaweed stalks or a local substitute) which, when inserted into the cervical canal, absorbed water and slowly expanded, dilating the cervix.\n\nHer first trial was in Napier on a charge of \"unlawfully using an instrument with intent to procure a miscarriage\", but the jury could not agree on a verdict. Two further trials were held in Wellington, with the juries again failing to agree on a verdict, amid much publicity. An unusual fourth trial followed, which also resulted in no conviction. Aves was represented by Cyril Harker at the trials in Napier in August 1936, Wellington in October 1936, December 1936 and February 1937. Harker's defense rested on lack of direct evidence; none of the women gave evidence and the crown prosecutor relied on circumstantial evidence.\n\nIn 1938, Aves was shot by Colin Herbert Hercock, the fiancé of a woman she had performed an abortion on, after he was led to believe that his fiancée was going to die as a result of the abortion. Aves died later in hospital; the fiancée survived to give evidence at Hercock's trial. Harker defended Hercock, getting him off on the lesser charge of manslaughter rather than murder and subsequently getting his prison term reduced. The judge in Hercocks' trial was Michael Myers, who had presided over Aves's last trial, during the trial he said \"if [Annie Aves] had been dealt with as she should have been, this tragedy would not have happened.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "16333816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16333816", "title": "Ausbuy", "text": "Ausbuy\n\nThe Australian Companies Institute (Ausbuy) was, until 2016, a non-profit, non-political organisation that encouraged Australians to support Australian-owned and Australian-made products and services. Their goal was to keep the jobs and profits in Australia and for the decisions to be made by Australians.\n\nDue to a downturn in membership renewals and increased costs, the company went into voluntary administration and was wound-up in 2016. The ownership of the Ausbuy logos, business name and trademarks were transferred to the Australian Made Campaign Ltd.\n\nAusbuy's main tasks involved communication at many levels as follows:\n\n\nAfter World War II Australia faced the problem of having an underdeveloped manufacturing base, which left it dependent on overseas supplies. There was a realisation that this situation, combined with Australia's geographic isolation, made it vulnerable. This led to the decision being made to build up manufacturing capability. The aftermath of war provided opportunities to recruit skilled workers from Europe and Australia was able to establish capacity behind the protection of a tariff wall. It became obvious that this wall had to be reduced but the rate of reduction ran well ahead of Australia's increasing ability to compete in a global market. \n\nAustralia adopted policies of economic liberalisation and micro-economic reform in the early 1980s, including the privatisation of government corporations, deregulation of factor markets, floating of the Australian dollar, and the reduction of trade protection. Justifications for reducing trade tariffs included the portrayal of Australia as a good global citizen and, at the same time, reducing inflationary pressures. The costs have been high: Australia's foreign debt has risen extremely quickly, factories have closed and well-paid skilled jobs in factories have been replaced by unskilled jobs in the service industries.\nAustralia has effectively exported jobs overseas and its foreign debt exceeds A$600 billion and is growing. Australia simply does not produce more than it uses. The country has been living on borrowed time, and Australians have stopped talking about productivity and value adding. For example, Australia exports raw materials and its unique fine wool, but then imports them back at a higher value. Free trade agreements have been signed by Australia, which further expose what manufacturers it has left, and then Australian governments bolster strategic industries to save jobs.\n\nAustralia is recognised as an innovative and productive country, and it needs local governments and consumers to appreciate and support what is unique to this country. The international trend of globalisation has been matched domestically with the rise of the mega store concept of retailing. Large supermarkets as well as warehouses have their selling policies based on \"anytime, everywhere, everything the same\", which means their procurement policies are centrally driven; they demand bulk orders from specific price competitive producers and farmers nor do these retail giants acknowledge local peculiarities and set a priority on \"Made in Australia\".\n\nIn its magazine \"Choice\" of January 1987 the Australian Consumers' Association advised consumers to \"Buy Australian\" when the quality was equal and the price comparable to imported products. Nevertheless, it is notable given that \"Choice\" is well regarded as an impartial source of information for Australian consumers, but the Australian Consumers' Association refused to make a commitment to favour an Australian product over a better product from overseas. \n\nThis could be classified as a typical means of moral suasion, which can be seen as benevolent compulsion, or making others conform without enforcing rules directly. It is also termed simply \"suasion\" (in Japan it is known as \"window guidance\") which has been used to persuade consumers and institutions to keep to official guidelines. The \"moral aspect\" stems from pressing on the targets of the suasion their \"moral responsibility\" to operate in a way that is consistent with furthering the national good. In the United States it is known as jawboning - it means exercising the persuasive power of talk rather than legislation. \n\nIn countries experiencing economic decline, especially those with a high unemployment level and trade deficit, consumers are urged to buy locally made products to help create jobs, assist in defeating unemployment and to avoid import penetration. Sometimes it is a so-called \"war against unemployment\" where policy makers like to raise an appeal to patriotic behaviour, shifting the responsibility of employment and the level of high import penetration towards consumers. Ultimately a successful moral suasion campaign which reduces import penetration significantly can be seen as a tax on imports with the potential to increase unemployment in the import sector as a result of decreasing demand for imports.\n\nThe lower supply of the Australian dollar may cause it to be of higher value in the foreign exchange markets, which obviously leads to a tax on exports, or consequently employment of Australians by Australian manufacturers producing goods for overseas markets will reduce. Furthermore, given that consumers are shifting their demand for consumer goods to domestic products, it still remains a dilemma whether the retailers and manufacturers of domestic products invest in Australian business operations. Or in other words, which authority controls that the profits remain in Australia?\n\nAusbuy was founded in 1991 by Harry Wallace as a result of his family business of 120 years being lost to foreign imports deposited in Australia to gain market share. His company was only one example of this, as an increasing number of companies in Australia had been forced to sell out to foreign interests, and foreign governments subsidised their producers to sell cheaply into the Australian market in competition with Australian-owned companies who do not enjoy that level of government support.\n\nBy 2007, Ausbuy had approximately 100 members, producing more than 3000 products across 150 categories. During the 2009 Truth in Labelling Senate Inquiry, Ausbuy was the only large representative organisation that asked for Country of Origin to be required on labelling used by food producers, manufacturers and distributors.\n\nAusbuy presented a petition of over 55,000 signatures to the Federal Government in November 2012 asking for a moratorium on the sale of Australian land and wealth-creating assets until the establishment a national interest test.\n\nOn 26 May 2016, the Board of Directors decided to undertake voluntary winding up of the company. As a result of a number of factors including changes to country of origin labeling, downturn in membership renewals, increased one off costs associated with company structure, compliance and technology, Ausbuy was no longer able to continue as a going concern. Despite a wide range of activities and strategies designed to retain and grow membership over the previous 18 months, the organisation had continued its decline to a point where a voluntary winding up of the company was the only prudent option.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51776042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51776042", "title": "Australian Freedom League", "text": "Australian Freedom League\n\nThe Australian Freedom League (AFL) was an anti-conscription organisation founded in Australia in 1912. Growing out of an earlier organisation called the \"Anti-Military Service League\", it was initially based in Adelaide, although by 1914 there were branches in every state except Western Australia. It was active in producing pamphlets and other material to promote its views that military training would have a negative and corrupting effect on young men and boys.\n"}
{"id": "170653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=170653", "title": "Authority", "text": "Authority\n\nAuthority is the right to exercise power, which can be formalized by a state and exercised by way of judges, appointed executives of government, or the ecclesiastical or priestly appointed representatives of a God or other deities. \n\nA governing body may be labelled an authority e.g. the Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority or the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority. \"Authority\" can also mean the right to complete an action or execute an order.\n\nIn government, \"authority\" is often used interchangeably with \"power\". However, their meanings differ: while \"power\" is the ability to order or accomplish a goal or to influence others, \"authority\" refers to a claim of legitimacy, the justification and right to exercise that power. For example, while a mob may have the power to punish a criminal by beating or lynching, the rule of law indicates that only a court of law has the authority to determine and refer a criminal for punishment. In this sense, authority is a matter of not only the ability or power to make decisions, but the right to make these decisions and execute them with commensurate power. Appropriate authority is the basis of good government in the republican conception of government, which finds much of its theoretical origins in ancient Rome.\n\nAncient understandings of authority trace back to Rome and draw later from Catholic (Thomistic) thought and other traditional understandings. In more modern terms, forms of authority include transitional authority exhibited in for example Cambodia, public authority in the form of popular power, and, in more administrative terms, bureaucratic or managerial techniques. In terms of bureaucratic governance, one limitation of the governmental agents of the executive branch, as outlined by George A. Krause, is that they are not as close to the popular will as elected representatives are. The claims of authority can extend to national or individual sovereignty, which is broadly or provisionally understood as a claim to political authority that is legitimated. \n\nHistorical applications of authority in political terms include the formation of the city-state of Geneva, and experimental treatises involving the topic of authority in relation to education include \"Emile\" by Jean-Jacques Rousseau. As David Laitin defines, authority is a key concept to be defined in determining the range and role of political theory, science and inquiry. The relevance of a grounded understanding of authority includes the basic foundation and formation of political, civil and/or ecclesiastical institutions or representatives. In recent years, however, authority in political contexts has been challenged or questioned.\n\nThere have been several contributions to the debate of political authority. Among others, Hannah Arendt, Carl Joachim Friedrich, Thomas Hobbes, Alexandre Kojève and Carl Schmitt have provided some of the most remarkable texts.\n\nIn political philosophy, the jurisdiction of political authority, the location of sovereignty, the balancing of freedom and authority, and the requirements of political obligations have been core questions from the time of Plato and Aristotle to the present. Most democratic societies are engaged in an ongoing discussion regarding the legitimate extent of the exercise of governmental authority. In the United States, for instance, there is a prevailing belief that the political system as instituted by the Founding Fathers should accord the populace as much freedom as reasonable, and that government should limit its authority accordingly, known as limited government.\n\nIn the discussion regarding the legitimacy of political authority, there are two beliefs at the respective ends of the spectrum. The first is the belief in the absolute freedom of the individual, otherwise known as political anarchism. The second is the belief that there must be a central authority in the form of a sovereign that claims ownership and control over the masses. This belief is known as statism. Sovereignty, in modern terms, can refer either to the adherence to a form of sovereign rule or the individual sovereignty, or autonomy, of a nation-state. The argument for political anarchy and anti-statism is made by Michael Huemer in his book \"The Problem of Political Authority\". On the other side, one of the main arguments for the legitimacy of the state is some form of the “social contract theory” developed by Thomas Hobbes in his 1668 book, \"Leviathan\", or by Jean-Jacques Rousseau in his political writings on the social contract. \n\nSince the emergence of the social sciences, authority has become a subject of research in a variety of empirical settings: the family (parental authority), small groups (informal authority of leadership), intermediate organizations such as schools, churches, armies, industries and bureaucracies (organizational and bureaucratic authorities), and society-wide or inclusive organizations, ranging from the most primitive tribal society to the modern nation-state and intermediate organization (political authority).\n\nThe definition of authority in contemporary social science remains a matter of debate. Max Weber in his essay \"Politics as a Vocation\" (1919) divided legitimate authority into three types. Others, like Howard Bloom, suggest a parallel between authority and respect/reverence for ancestors.\n\nThe understanding of political authority and the exercise of political powers in the American context traces back to the writings of the Founding Fathers, including the arguments put forward in \"The Federalist Papers\" by James Madison, Alexander Hamilton and the First Chief Justice of the United States John Jay, and later speeches by the 16th President of the United States Abraham Lincoln. \"Our government rests in public opinion,\" President Abraham Lincoln said in 1856 Related to the Authority of the Sanatana Kingdom . In his 1854 Speech at Peoria, Illinois, Lincoln espoused \"the proposition that each man should do precisely as he pleases with all which is exclusively his own,\" a principle existing \"at the foundation of the sense of justice.\" This sense of personal ownership and stewardship was integral to the practice of self-government as Abraham Lincoln saw it by a Republican nation and its people. This was because, as Abraham Lincoln also declared, \"No man is good enough to govern another man, without that other's consent.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17833549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17833549", "title": "Beijing Declaration", "text": "Beijing Declaration\n\nThe Beijing Declaration was a resolution adopted by the UN at the end of the Fourth World Conference on Women on 15 September 1995. The resolution adopted to promulgate a set of principles concerning the equality of men and women.\n\nDeclaration\n\n1. We, the Governments participating in the Fourth World Conference on Women,\n\n2. gathered here in Beijing in September 1995, the year of the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the United Nations,\n\n3. determined to advance the goals of equality, development and peace for all women everywhere in the interest of all humanity,\n\n4. acknowledging the voices of all women everywhere and taking note of the diversity of women and their roles and circumstances, honouring the women who paved the way and inspired by the hope present in the world's youth,\n\n5. recognize that the status of women has advanced in some important respects in the past decade but that progress has been uneven, inequalities between women and men have persisted and major obstacles remain, with serious consequences for the well-being of all people,\n\n6. also recognize that this situation is exacerbated by the increasing poverty that is affecting the lives of the majority of the world's people, in particular women and children, with origins in both the national and international domains,\n\n7. dedicate ourselves unreservedly to addressing these constraints and obstacles and thus enhancing further the advancement and empowerment of women all over the world, and agree that this requires urgent action in the spirit of determination, hope, cooperation and solidarity, now and to carry us forward into the next century.\n\nWe reaffirm our commitment to:\n\n8. The equal rights and inherent human dignity of women and men and other purposes and principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations, to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other international human rights instruments, in particular the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women and the Convention on the Rights of the Child, as well as the Declaration on the Elimination of Violence against Women and the Declaration on the Right to Development;\n\n9. Ensure the full implementation of the human rights of women and of the girl child as an inalienable, integral and indivisible part of all human rights and fundamental freedoms;\n\n10. Build on consensus and progress made at previous United Nations conferences and summits - on women in Nairobi in 1985, on children in New York in 1990, on environment and development in Rio de Janeiro in 1992, on human rights in Vienna in 1993, on population and development in Cairo in 1994 and on social development in Copenhagen in 1995 with the objective of achieving equality, development and peace;\n\n11. Achieve the full and effective implementation of the Nairobi Forward-looking Strategies for the Advancement of Women;\n\n12. The empowerment and advancement of women, including the right to freedom of thought, conscience, religion and belief, thus contributing to the moral, ethical, spiritual and intellectual needs of women and men, individually or in community with others and thereby guaranteeing them the possibility of realizing their full potential in society and shaping their lives in accordance with their own aspirations.\n\nWe are convinced that:\n\n13. Women's empowerment and their full participation on the basis of equality in all spheres of society, including participation in the decision-making process and access to power, are fundamental for the achievement of equality, development and peace;\n\n14. Women's rights are human rights;\n\n15. Equal rights, opportunities and access to resources, equal sharing of responsibilities for the family by men and women, and a harmonious partnership between them are critical to their well-being and that of their families as well as to the consolidation of democracy;\n\n16. Eradication of poverty based on sustained economic growth, social development, environmental protection and social justice requires the involvement of women in economic and social development, equal opportunities and the full and equal participation of women and men as agents and beneficiaries of people-centred sustainable development;\n\n17. The explicit recognition and reaffirmation of the right of all women to control all aspects of their health, in particular their own fertility, is basic to their empowerment;\n\n18. Local, national, regional and global peace is attainable and is inextricably linked with the advancement of women, who are a fundamental force for leadership, conflict resolution and the promotion of lasting peace at all levels;\n\n19. It is essential to design, implement and monitor, with the full participation of women, effective, efficient and mutually reinforcing gender-sensitive policies and programmes, including development policies and programmes, at all levels that will foster the empowerment and advancement of women;\n\n20. The participation and contribution of all actors of civil society, particularly women's groups and networks and other non-governmental organizations and community-based organizations, with full respect for their autonomy, in cooperation with Governments, are important to the effective implementation and follow-up of the Platform for Action;\n\n21. The implementation of the Platform for Action requires commitment from Governments and the international community. By making national and international commitments for action, including those made at the Conference, Governments and the international community recognize the need to take priority action for the empowerment and advancement of women.\n\nWe are determined to:\n\n22. Intensify efforts and actions to achieve the goals of the Nairobi Forward-looking Strategies for the Advancement of Women by the end of this century;\n\n23. Ensure the full enjoyment by women and the girl child of all human rights and fundamental freedoms and take effective action against violations of these rights and freedoms;\n\n24. Take all necessary measures to eliminate all forms of discrimination against women and the girl child and remove all obstacles to gender equality and the advancement and empowerment of women;\n\n25. Encourage men to participate fully in all actions towards equality;\n\n26. Promote women's economic independence, including employment, and eradicate the persistent and increasing burden of poverty on women by addressing the structural causes of poverty through changes in economic structures, ensuring equal access for all women, including those in rural areas, as vital development agents, to productive resources, opportunities and public services;\n\n27. Promote people-centred sustainable development, including sustained economic growth, through the provision of basic education, lifelong education, literacy and training, and primary health care for girls and women;\n\n28. Take positive steps to ensure peace for the advancement of women and, recognizing the leading role that women have played in the peace movement, work actively towards general and complete disarmament under strict and effective international control, and support negotiations on the conclusion, without delay, of a universal and multilaterally and effectively verifiable comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty which contributes to nuclear disarmament and the prevention of the proliferation of nuclear weapons in all its aspects;\n\n29. Prevent and eliminate all forms of violence against women and girls;\n\n30. Ensure equal access to and equal treatment of women and men in education and health care and enhance women's sexual and reproductive health as well as education;\n\n31. Promote and protect all human rights of women and girls;\n\n32. Intensify efforts to ensure equal enjoyment of all human rights and fundamental freedoms for all women and girls who face multiple barriers to their empowerment and advancement because of such factors as their race, age, language, ethnicity, culture, religion, or disability, or because they are indigenous people;\n\n33. Ensure respect for international law, including humanitarian law, in order to protect women and girls in particular;\n\n34. Develop the fullest potential of girls and women of all ages, ensure their full and equal participation in building a better world for all and enhance their role in the development process.\n\nWe are determined to:\n\n35. Ensure women's equal access to economic resources, including land, credit, science and technology, vocational training, information, communication and markets, as a means to further the advancement and empowerment of women and girls, including through the enhancement of their capacities to enjoy the benefits of equal access to these resources, inter alia, by means of international cooperation;\n\n36. Ensure the success of the Platform for Action, which will require a strong commitment on the part of Governments, international organizations and institutions at all levels. We are deeply convinced that economic development, social development and environmental protection are interdependent and mutually reinforcing components of sustainable development, which is the framework for our efforts to achieve a higher quality of life for all people. Equitable social development that recognizes empowering the poor, particularly women living in poverty, to utilize environmental resources sustainably is a necessary foundation for sustainable development. We also recognize that broad-based and sustained economic growth in the context of sustainable development is necessary to sustain social development and social justice. The success of the Platform for Action will also require adequate mobilization of resources at the national and international levels as well as new and additional resources to the developing countries from all available funding mechanisms, including multilateral, bilateral and private sources for the advancement of women; financial resources to strengthen the capacity of national, subregional, regional and international institutions; a commitment to equal rights, equal responsibilities and equal opportunities and to the equal participation of women and men in all national, regional and international bodies and policy-making processes; and the establishment or strengthening of mechanisms at all levels for accountability to the world's women;\n\n37. Ensure also the success of the Platform for Action in countries with economies in transition, which will require continued international cooperation and assistance;\n\n38. We hereby adopt and commit ourselves as Governments to implement the following Platform for Action, ensuring that a gender perspective is reflected in all our policies and programmes. We urge the United Nations system, regional and international financial institutions, other relevant regional and international institutions and all women and men, as well as non-governmental organizations, with full respect for their autonomy, and all sectors of civil society, in cooperation with Governments, to fully commit themselves and contribute to the implementation of this Platform for Action.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3319102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3319102", "title": "Beneficial owner", "text": "Beneficial owner\n\nBeneficial owner is a legal term where specific property rights (\"use and title\") in equity belong to a person even though legal title of the property belongs to another person. \"Black's Law Dictionary\" (2nd Pocket ed. 2001 pg. 508). This often relates where the legal title owner has implied trustee duties to the beneficial owner. \n\nUnder United States copyright law, an author may transfer some rights to the copyright owner (often an employer) while retaining a future \"reversionary interest,\" such as that of copyright renewal. For example, \"[t]he legal or beneficial owner of an exclusive right under a copyright . . . to institute an action for any infringement of that particular right committed while he or she is the owner of it.\" \n\nA common example of a beneficial owner is the real or true owner of funds held by a nominee bank or for stocks held in the name of a brokerage firm.\n\n"}
{"id": "7688109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7688109", "title": "Biy", "text": "Biy\n\nBiy () were elected judges and administrators in Kazakhstan. Biys are below Sultans in rank.\n\nAccording to the website of the Embassy of The Republic of Kazakhstan:\nIn the 17th and 18th Centuries the nomadic Jungar tribes directed by the Chinese Bogdykhans started a large scale war against the Kazakh khanate. However, thanks to the courage of the “batyrs” (knights), the decisiveness of the Kazakh leader Ablai Khan, the diplomatic skills of the Kazakh ‘biys’ (sages) Tole Bi, Kazdausty Kazybek Bi, Aiteke Bi, and self-sacrifice of the people, the Kazakhs escaped total capture and physical annihilation.\n"}
{"id": "24234779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24234779", "title": "Black v Chrétien", "text": "Black v Chrétien\n\nBlack v Chrétien is the name of a legal dispute between businessman Conrad Black and Canadian Prime Minister Jean Chrétien over Chrétien's ability to prevent Black, a dual British-Canadian citizen, from obtaining a peerage in the British House of Lords. The Court of Appeal for Ontario ruled in favour of Chrétien.\n\nElizabeth II was, as Queen of the United Kingdom acting on the advice of British Prime Minister Tony Blair, to honour Black by raising him to the peerage. However, the Canadian Prime Minister, Jean Chrétien, gave the conflicting advice on behalf of Canada to the United Kingdom that the Government's position was that a Canadian citizen should not receive such a titular honour, citing the non-binding 1919 Nickle Resolution. Chrétien held that, despite the British government honouring Black as a British citizen, and Black's holding dual citizenship of Canada and Britain (allowed since 1977), the government of Canada had the right to make known the Government's stance relating to elevating Black to the British peerage as he was also a Canadian citizen. \n\nIn similar cases, Welsh-born computer entrepreneur Sir Terry Matthews and Winnipeg-born Sir George Sayers Bain, head of Queen's University in Belfast, both Canadian citizens but British residents, were honoured with knighthoods. Jean Chrétien and Foreign Affairs Minister John Manley sent diplomatic protests to London against the British government's interference in Canadian affairs.\n\nChrétien was quoted by a BBC report as saying, \"What I and the government object to is that, by conferring the knighthoods without seeking the agreement of the Canadian government, you have not taken into account the Canadian government policy with regard to how Canadian citizens should be honoured.\"\n\nBlack said he would accept the peerage as a British citizen instead, but Chrétien held firm to his ministerial advice. Black then argued that this strict interpretation of the Nickle Resolution was payback for his political opinions and past criticism of Chrétien, and sued the Prime Minister unsuccessfully.\n\nBlack's supporters argued that Canada did not object to the granting of honours to dual citizens such as Ontario native Sir Bryant Godman Irvine who was knighted in 1986. So too was a prominent Quebecker, the British and Canadian industrialist, Sir Neil McGowan Shaw (born 1929) in 1994. Finally, former Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau's own personal expert on Canadian symbols, Sir Conrad Swan, was knighted by the Queen when he was serving in the Royal Household as Garter Principal King of Arms (1992–1995), the chief heraldic officer at London's College of Arms.\n\nThe British government disagreed on the grounds that it was honouring its own citizens who only happened to be Canadians as well. It held that it was inappropriate for the Prime Minister of Canada to advise the Queen of the United Kingdom, just as it would have been inappropriate for the British Prime Minister to advise the Queen of Canada on Canadian domestic affairs.\n\nThe Court concluded that the Prime Minister had a constitutional right to advise the Queen of Canada on exercising her Royal Prerogative. However, in this case, the Prime Minister's advice was to a \"foreign head of state\", and subsequently Elizabeth II did not receive the Prime Minister's \"advice in her capacity as Queen of Canada; rather he was advising the Queen as a foreign head of state in her capacity as the Queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland as to Canada's policy regarding the conferral of foreign honours on its citizens, an act he could have done for \"any\" foreign head of state\". In short, the Prime Minister was simply informing a foreign state of Canada's policy regarding the granting of honours to its citizens, an act which the Court found that he had the legal privilege to do.\n\nIn 2001, Black renounced his citizenship of Canada, which he then called \"an oppressive little world\". Eric Reguly wrote in \"The Times\": \"The great man fled his native Canada for Britain. He couldn't wait to leave, he said, because Canada was turning into a Third World dump run by raving socialists.\" Black's lawyer, Eddie Greenspan, later stated Black's citizenship \"was stolen from him\" by \"spiteful\" former Prime Minister Jean Chrétien.\n\nBlack was granted a life peerage as Baron Black of Crossharbour, in the London Borough of Tower Hamlets. Lord Black sat as a member of the Conservative Party until July 13, 2007, when he was denied the whip (effectively, expulsion from the Conservative benches) because of his conviction on fraud charges.\n\nIn September 2006, \"The Globe and Mail\" reported Black was taking steps to regain Canadian citizenship. He may have desired this to qualify for prisoner exchange and benefit from Canadian early release policies or to enable him to cross the border following a conviction. In a TVOntario interview, Black claimed, \"I always said that I would take my citizenship back, and if it wasn't for all these legal problems, I would have done it by now.\" He told interviewer Steve Paikin that he was working through \"normal channels\". Black also said, \"I have settled into my new life as freedom fighter. It's very interesting, it's quite stimulating in a way, but it is an ordeal.\"\n\nEven without Canadian citizenship, Black continued to be a member of the Queen's Privy Council for Canada, to which he was appointed by Governor General Ray Hnatyshyn, on the advice of Prime Minister Brian Mulroney, in 1992. The appointment was strictly honorific, as the Privy Council has no substantive power and meets very rarely. In fact, the council last formally met in 1981, so Black never actually attended a Privy Council meeting. In 2014 Conrad Black was once again living in Canada; however, the Governor General accepted the advice of the Order of Canada Advisory Committee and the Prime Minister to remove Black from both the Order of Canada and the Privy Council.\n"}
{"id": "27574283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27574283", "title": "Bush carpentry", "text": "Bush carpentry\n\nBush carpentry is an expression used in Australia and New Zealand that refers to improvised methods of building or repair, using available materials and an ad hoc design, usually in a pioneering or rural context.\n\nThe phrase 'bush carpentry' is a familiar Australian usage, but finding an exact description of its practice is rare. The Macquarie Dictionary for example, defines a \"bush carpenter\" as a \"rough amateur carpenter\", and G. A. Wilkes says he is a \"rough and ready\" carpenter. The Macquarie in turn defines \"rough-and-ready\" as \"rough, rude or crude, but good enough for the purpose.\" Wannan says that a bush carpenter is 'a very rough, unorthodox artisan indeed', and includes a sardonic excerpt from Henry Lawson to exemplify it. In his \"Bushcraft\" series Ron Edwards describes hut and furniture building, and 'stockcamp architecture', without once using the phrase 'bush carpentry', though 'rough and ready' recurs. Tocal Agricultural College offers a course in 'Traditional bush timber construction'; The word 'traditional' appears six times in the course outline, but not 'bush carpentry'.\n\nCox and Lucas, writing in 1978 of Australian pioneer buildings, remarked:\n\n\"... perhaps because it has been the symbol of hardship and country toil; perhaps because it was thought too crude and rude to be treated seriously as architecture by the academics ... there have been few books and articles written on the subject ... The vernacular, often, is a fragile architectural form, evolved for expedience and resulting—especially in the case of the more primitive examples—in early decay and disappearance ... designed by an amateur, a builder with little training in design and who will be guided by a strict set of conventions developed within his own locality, perhaps paying some attention to fashion, but local only and certainly not international. Within the vernacular building, function is the dominant factor.\n\nA similar and familiar phrase is \"traditional\" bush carpentry; this implies that its principles are well-known, but informally transmitted. Like folk music, bush carpentry exists within an oral and demotic culture, and is often undocumented. The tradition of Australian inventiveness, however, has an extensive literature:\n\n\"... vigorous attitudes to innovation prevailed in the Colonies in the nineteenth century and established for Australia some significant technological leads. Lessons from these attitudes both underline the continuing importance of the 'lone inventor' and hold relevance for education, management, and technology policies today.\"\n\nHenry Lawson, \"A Day on a Selection\" (1896):\n\n'The dairy is built of rotten box bark—though there is plenty of good stringy-bark within easy distance—and the structure looks as if it wants to lie down and is only prevented by three crooked props on the leaning side; more props will soon be needed in the rear for the dairy shows signs of going in that direction. The milk is set in dishes made of kerosene-tins, cut in halves, which are placed on bark shelves fitted round against the walls. The shelves are not level and the dishes are brought to a comparatively horizontal position by means of chips and bits of bark, inserted under the lower side. The milk is covered by soiled sheets of old newspapers supported on sticks laid across the dishes. This protection is necessary, because the box bark in the roof has crumbled away and left fringed holes—also because the fowls roost up there. Sometimes the paper sags, and the cream may have to be scraped off an article on dairy farming.'\n\nIn Australian parlance, 'the bush' includes not only all remote and rural areas, but ways of living there, especially the limitations and hardships endured. Even though remote areas in contemporary Australia are easily reachable by air and modern communications, there remains a mythology of the tyranny of distance: tyranny over comfort, sophistication, over civilization itself. The expression \"bush carpentry\" includes two criteria of 'remoteness'. The first, that the builder is separated (by lack of formal training) from regular methods of construction. The second, separation (by physical distance) from regular resources such as milled timber, fasteners, specialized tools, and similar manufactured products. Those in both 'remote' circumstances are forced to invent and improvise. They produce a necessary structure or object via unorthodox procedures, and it will be serviceable, if inelegant in appearance.\n\nThus, in an Australian suburb today, a self-taught \"handyman\" might devise and erect a backyard structure using purchased timber, and practising 'bush carpentry'—a gazebo, a fernery, a children's playhouse for example—while at the same time, a skilled tradesperson, in a distant run of an outback cattle station, might be forced to use heavy tree-trunks, saplings, undressed stone and rusty fencing-wire to construct a stock race.\n\nThese two criteria allow the use of manufactured materials—e.g. milled timber—in an irregular manner, and materials other than wood (stone and iron, for example). They exclude the fabrication of large structures like wharves and bridges, built by contracting tradesmen, which incorporate massive tree trunks, even when a manufactured item, e.g. a steel beam, is available (see illustration of Maldon Bridge repaired by government construction team).\n\nThe Australian Aborigines were probably the first 'bush carpenters'. From the Aborigines, European settlers learned how to strip bark in large sheets from particular tree species, and use this for roofs and walls.\n\nThe skills required are minimal, but they must be well-mastered and neatly executed. Bush carpenters may learn from observing the methods, or the evidence of, another person's work, or entirely through their own invention. The scarcity of any reference books with any local applicability is another factor.\n\nRon Edwards asserts that no training at all is required. The requisites are 'a calm mind, reasonable health, and a willingness to learn'. Edwards points out that the early settlers built their homes without prior knowledge and experience, and 'many of these buildings are still in existence a century later'. Edwards adds, 'Confidence in your own ability is the first requirement ... the second is access to knowledge.'\n\nIn his autobiography, Sam Weller remarked of a young man who had worked for a period as a jackaroo:\n\n\"The bush is one of the best educations a young fellow can get if he's interested. That bloke knows livestock, knows how to work them, can cut a straight line with a saw, handle concrete, build a set of yards, fix a motor car—you name it. When you're a hundred miles from town, you can't afford to get a tradesman out for every little job that bobs up. So you've got to slip in and do it yourself ... One of the bosses from a cattle station told me \"Sam, if a bloke comes in here in a big hat and ringer boots, he's got a job. They can turn their hands to anything. They know how to work and they don't gutsache all the time.\"\n\nThe bush carpenter historically possessed few tools, and rarely any specialized tools. Mann's \"Emigrant's Guide\" of 1849 suggests that those heading for Australia's unsettled areas take with them a plentiful supply of a wide variety of tools and fasteners, but he lists as the very minimum, 'A hand saw; Axe; Adze; Mortising chisel; Two augers, 1 and 1 inch; Two maul rings; Set of wedges; 1 Spade; Pick-axe; Two-foot rule; Chalk line; Square; A Plumb Bob.' A majority of early settlers had formerly been manual labourers, or servicemen, and brought with them a sound practical ability and aptitude for 'making do'; others observed or helped and copied their techniques.\n\nFreeland observes:\n'With a saw, an axe, a hammer and a spade on his cart and possibly one of the useful little books on construction written especially for him ... he had to do the best he could with the materials that were to hand wherever he stopped. Helped a little by his book, a fair amount by advice and precedent and a great deal by ingenuity and native wit, the settlers developed a surprising number of variations on standard constructional materials and techniques.'\n\nRon Edwards' 1987 list of suggested tools to construct 'stockcamp architecture' include only an axe, pliers, a hammer and 'perhaps an auger'. Edwards also demonstrates the technique of the Cobb & Co. hitch for tightening fencing wire that fastens structural elements(See Fig. 2 below).\n\nWith the upsurge in Australia of the restoration of so-called 'Heritage items', the techniques of Australian bush carpentry may be moving closer to formal identification and categorization. Tocal College's 2002 list of tools for its 'Traditional bush timber construction' course includes the broadaxe, adze, sledge hammer and wedges, morticing axe, froe and mallet, draw knife, and hand auger.\n\nStructures or objects such as furniture created using bush carpentry techniques often have minimal or even an \"ad hoc\" design. Projects built according to properly drawn plans, for example, architectural blueprints, cannot be called examples of bush carpentry. The design of a barn or shed is likely to be intuitive and functional; the settler's slab hut derived from the vernacular English crofter's hut, a simple rectangular walled shelter with one door, and perhaps holes to allow air to enter.\n\nHistorically, the materials at hand for Australian settlers usually included a plentiful supply of hardwood, in the form of fully-grown trees and saplings, bark, brush or grass, clay, mud and stone. The classic Australian bush carpentry image is the forked tree trunk used as an upright.\n\nNails, bolts or screws were often not available; wooden pegs, wire, or strips of greenhide might be used as fasteners. Greenhide strips might also be used as hinges for doors or shutters. Ron Edwards comments that 'Fencing wire was a very popular resource because it was always available. Bolts and long nails were expensive, and had to be ordered from town ... a shed or stockyard would be fastened together with wire and would be stronger than one that was nailed.'\n\nLess usual building materials include flattened steel kerosene containers used as wall cladding, or such containers filled with sand and used as building blocks. Sheets of hessian have also been used as walls, for coolness.\n\nThe etymology of the word \"carpenter\" shows that it derives from 'a carriage maker', and later, 'one who builds frameworks'; thus, the term 'bush carpentry' does not necessarily imply that wood is the only material involved.\n\nCox & Freeland believe that early structures created using bush carpentry had a profound influence on Australian industrial architecture:\n\n\"Because they are uncomplicated buildings, built by unlettered people in the most direct way, using the materials readily to hand, they often have a character and honesty that are rare and sometimes missing from\ntheir more erudite architectural betters. Because they are made of a material with which everyone has a deep-rooted harmony, because they are put together in ways that are easily understood and because their forms are readily comprehended, they are universal buildings whose roughness and even whose frequent dilapidation give them a powerful emotional appeal and impact. They are buildings to be felt rather than reasoned ... Cement works, mines, the railways and factories spawned a large variety of store houses and storage bins, towers and poppet heads, workshops and condensers. Framed up in peeled tree trunks or massive balks of hardwood bolted together, their skeletons of columns, beams and braces had the same forthrightness and frankness of the rural buildings ... sited out in the country where they would seldom be seen, or in ugly industrial areas, or along the waterfront where buildings were not expected to be beautiful they, like the rural buildings, were built with an eye solely to meeting their utilitarian purpose in the most direct and purposeful way. Because of this, they frequently succeeded in being outstandingly beautiful. Through the industrial buildings, the functional tradition of the countryside unknowingly and unconsciously was passed into the twentieth century.\n\nThe cartoons of Eric Jolliffe, especially those based on his character \"Saltbush Bill\" include many examples of bush carpentry; the farm where much of \"Saltbush Bill\" is set has houses, furniture and other rural structures—barns, stockyards, gallows—all built using bush carpentry means and materials. Joliffe set himself the task of preserving much of Australia's rural heritage by producing sketches and paintings of such structures.\n\nThere is often a sardonic or comical note in Australian fiction when bush carpentry is mentioned or described; possibly because there is no comedy or satire residing in competency.\n\nRolf Boldrewood's \"Robbery Under Arms\"(1881) is an exception:\n\n'... It was a snug hut enough, for father was a good bush carpenter, and didn't turn his back to any one for splitting and fencing, hut-building and shingle-splitting; he had had a year or two at sawing, too ... he took great pride ... and said it was the best-built hut within fifty miles. He split every slab, cut every post and wallplate and rafter himself, with a man to help him at odd times; and after the frame was up, and the bark on the roof, he camped underneath and finished every bit of it — chimney, flooring, doors, windows, and partitions — by himself.'\n\nHenry Lawson, \"The Darling River\" (1900):\n\n\"The boat we were on was built and repaired above deck after the different ideas of many bush carpenters, of whom the last seemed by his work to have regarded the original plan with a contempt only equalled by his disgust at the work of the last carpenter but one. The wheel was boxed in, mostly with round sapling-sticks fastened to the frame with bunches of nails and spikes of all shapes and sizes, most of them bent. The general result was decidedly picturesque in its irregularity, but dangerous to the mental welfare of any passenger who was foolish enough to try to comprehend the design; for it seemed as though every carpenter had taken the opportunity to work in a little abstract idea of his own.\nIn Steele Rudd's, \"Back at Our Selection,\" (1906) the sequence of stories beginning with \"Dave's New House\" and ending with \"Dad Forgets the Past\" have a socio-historical sub-text emphasizing the progress of rural Australia from pioneering to prosperity. In the first story, Dad Rudd, though now a wealthy farmer, builds Dave and his new wife Lily a house, using materials salvaged from a neighbour's derelict slab hut. Dad still thinks like a pioneer: he constructs the house himself, using only the materials available, and spending little or no money. However, Lily's mother is outraged that her daughter is expected to live in 'a pile of dirty old slabs and shingles ... a hole!' Dad Rudd is shamed into hiring proper building contractors and erecting a fine cottage, at a cost of 'three hundred pounds'; indeed, in freeing himself from the penuriousness he knew as a penniless settler, Dad over-furnishes Dave's house such that even Mother 'shook her head disapprovingly'.\n\nE. O. Schlunke's \"The Enthusiastic Prisoner\" (1955) shows two bush carpenters at work. One is a lazy Australian farmer who is assigned an Italian prisoner of war as a laborer. The Italian is far more energetic, and tackles dozens of neglected farming tasks, becoming in effect the manager. In one episode, they re-roof a shed using bush carpentry:\n\n'When they climbed the roof Pietro discovered that half the sheets were loose. Henry gave him the nails and directed him to nail down the flapping sheet. But Pietro was hunting round for causes. He discovered that the rafters were rotting and demonstrated it by giving one a hard hit with the hammer. It split from end to end and a couple of sheets immediately blew off the roof.\n\nThey spent the afternoon cutting trees in the scrub and trimming them for rafters, though nothing had been farther from Henry's intention and inclination. He cut down a few little trees while Pietro cut a lot of big ones. Pietro always took the heavier end when they loaded the rails, but even so, Henry became exhausted. Round about four o'clock he decided to go home.\n\n\"Sufficient\", he said.\n\nPietro consulted a diagram he had made.\n\n\"No sufficient\", he said. \"Ancora four.\"\n\n... They finished re-roofing the shed by the week-end. Pietro wanted to know if they would cut some fence-posts next week to repair the fences. Henry thought of how he would suffer if he had to work on the other end of a cross-cut saw with a tireless bear like Pietro.\n\n\"No\", he said, \"some other work.\"\n\nBut he didn't like the way Pietro looked at him, so he decided to hide the cross-cut saw.'\n\nThe folk song \"Stringbark and Greenhide\" describes successful bush carpentry using both these materials:\n\"If you want to build a hut, to keep out wind and weather,\"<br>\n\"Stringy bark will make it snug, and keep it well together;\"<br>\n\"Greenhide, if it's used by you, will make it all the stronger,\"<br>\n\"For if you tie it with greenhide, it's sure to last the longer.\"\nThe folk song \"Old Bark Hut\" is of another opinion:\n\"In the summertime when the weather's warm this hut is nice and cool\"<br>\n\"And you'll find the gentle breezes blowing in through every hole\"<br>\n\"You can leave the old door open or you can leave it shut\"<br>\n\"There's no fear of suffocation in the old bark hut\"\n\n\"In an old bark hut in an old bark hut\"<br>\n\"There's no fear of suffocation in the old bark hut.\nFrom the 1920s to the 1970s, the average Australian family aimed to own a 'weekender', in addition to their suburban dwelling. (In New Zealand, a weekender is known as a \"bach\"). On a block of land close to a beach, near a coastal village, or other place of recreation like a river, lake or mountain, a family might erect a 'shack', or cabin, usually with their own hands, often using materials brought from their city residence, or obtained nearby. Shacks and cabins used as weekenders were sometimes built illegally, in remote or inaccessible areas, for example, within National Parks. Weekenders were not always constructed according to the local council's building code; they were often excellent examples of bush carpentry.\n\nGovernment organizations usually ignored the presence and the irregular construction of such weekenders, provided the users behaved responsibly. Municipal councils did not charge these shack-builders rates, and did not provide services like water supply, power, sewerage or garbage disposal. By the 1980s, however, as Australia's population increased, many former coastal villages had become towns, or the suburbs of nearby towns. Many Australians had retired to live cheaply in their weekender, placing increasing pressure on local infrastructure and community services. Increasing pressure was then placed on the owners and occupiers of weekenders to destroy or replace their shack with a properly constructed dwelling.\n\nThe founding of the National Parks and Wildlife Service in 1967 introduced a policy of cabin removal. Owners have subsequently sought to have their cabins declared heritage structures, 'uncommon and endangered examples of vernacular weekender architecture construction' and of 'the limitations imposed by the natural environment and isolated location' i.e. examples of bush carpentry.\n\n\n\n\"Building and Bushwork for Selectors, Squatters, and Others\" a series of articles by Frederick Harrison, appearing in The Australian Town and Country Journal during June–August 1881.\n\nTHE object of the papers prepared for publication under the above heading is to provide, in a concise form, information constantly required by employers and employed especially in the country districts of Australia. The reason for adapting the subjects specially to bush requirements is obvious. Take up any English work, and the materials specified, such as stone, lime, timber, &c, are those indigenous to or easily obtained in that country. But that does not answer for the bush, where the materials available on the spot must be utilized.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5392500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5392500", "title": "Captain Copyright", "text": "Captain Copyright\n\nCaptain Copyright was a propaganda cartoon character created by Canada's Access Copyright agency to educate children about the agency's stance on copyright and copyright infringement. As of August 18, 2006, the Captain Copyright initiative had been canceled.\n\nAs of March 3, 2007, the website has a three-paragraph statement explaining that \"we have come to the conclusion that the current climate around copyright issues will not allow a project like this one to be successful\".\n\nAs of March 14, 2008, the website gives a 400 Bad Request, stating \"Bad Request (Invalid Hostname)\".\n\nAs of January 11, 2013, the website redirects to Access Copyright's main site.\n\nNot long after the launch of a website introducing the character, concerns were raised in a number of quarters that the character was not appropriate for educational uses, as it was produced by an entity with a commercial interest in the state of copyright law in Canada, and it is unclear that it is following copyright law itself.\n\nFor example, it was reported that the Captain Copyright web page used two quotes about ISBNs from English Wikipedia, but fails to follow the requirements of English Wikipedia's GNU FDL license by providing a direct link back to the source article or even acknowledging the GNU license as required by English Wikipedia. On further investigation, several more English Wikipedia quotes were also found on the site; however, as of 5 June 2006, all the English Wikipedia quotes were removed, and Suzanne Dugard, manager of communications for Access Copyright, stated in an interview with Canada.com that their inclusion had been \"just an oversight\".\n\nIt has also been noted that the site avoids the issue of the blank media levy in Canada when discussing the legalities of space shifting and downloading copyrighted material without permission. While it is illegal to make such material available for download, as of 2006 the Copyright Board of Canada has indicated that it is not illegal to download copyrighted material once it has been made available illegally, a ruling made specifically because of the earlier imposition of the levy. For example, a teacher's handout claims that for music \"the copyright is for the recording on the media device, not the words or music on it,\" even though the intent of the blank media levy is to compensate copyright holders in return for allowing the shifting of the copyrighted material from media to media.\n\nOthers have pointed out that Access Copyright has placed the following two statements on the Captain Copyright website:\n\nIn both cases, it has been questioned whether or not these clauses — unusual for HTML documents, which are intended to be hyperlinked to by the structure of web itself — are intended to stifle fair dealing, debate on copyright issues, and legitimate criticism of Access Copyright's approach despite Captain Copyright being pitched as a tool for education.\n\nThe one-sided approach to copyright promoted by the Captain Copyright campaign has been ridiculed and parodied by fair use advocates. For example, The Continuing Adventures of Private Infringer was a short-lived fan fiction blog whose title character's every action was prevented by Captain Copyright. Google Blogoscoped also posted a parody depicting Creative Commons founder Lawrence Lessig as a villain who hates creativity.\n\n"}
{"id": "45325220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45325220", "title": "Carter v Canada (AG)", "text": "Carter v Canada (AG)\n\nCarter v Canada (AG), 2015 SCC 5 is a landmark Supreme Court of Canada decision where the prohibition of assisted suicide was challenged as contrary to the \"Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms\" (\"Charter\") by several parties, including the family of Lee Carter, a woman suffering from degenerative spinal stenosis, and Gloria Taylor, a woman suffering from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (\"ALS\"). In a unanimous decision on February 6, 2015, the Court struck down the provision in the \"Criminal Code\", thereby giving Canadian adults who are mentally competent and suffering intolerably and enduringly the right to a doctor's assistance in dying. This ruling overturned the Supreme Court's 1993 ruling in \"Rodriguez v British Columbia (AG),\" which had denied a right to assisted suicide.\n\nThe court suspended its ruling for 12 months, with the decision taking effect in 2016, to give the federal government enough time to amend its laws. In January 2016, the court granted an additional four-month extension to its ruling suspension to allow time for the newly elected federal Liberal government to consult with Canadians on drafting a law to comply with the ruling. As an interim measure, it also ruled that provincial courts can now begin approving applications for euthanasia until the new law passes.\n\nIn 1972, the Canadian government repealed the \"Criminal Code\" provision prohibiting suicide. However, 241(b) of the \"Criminal Code\" provided that everyone who aids or abets a person in committing suicide commits an indictable offence, and section 14 stated that no person may consent to death being inflicted on them. The Supreme Court denied a right to assisted suicide in their 1993 ruling \"Rodriguez v British Columbia (AG)\", upholding the constitutionality of the prohibitions based upon a thin evidentiary record.\nIn April 2011, the British Columbia Civil Liberties Association (\"BCCLA\") filed a lawsuit challenging both section 14 and section 241(b) of \"Criminal Code\" (law that prohibits aiding a person to commit suicide), claiming they violated sections 7 (the right to \"life, liberty, and security of the person) and 15(1) of the \"Charter\" (equality).\n\nThe case was heard at the Supreme Court of British Columbia, which ruled in favour of the BCCLA in June 2012. The federal government appealed the ruling to the Court of Appeal for British Columbia, which overturned the ruling in a 2–1 decision in October 2013. The BCCLA then filed a leave to appeal to the Supreme Court of Canada.\n\nThe Court framed the issue at bar thus:\nThe Court found that section 241(b) and section 14 of the \"Criminal Code\" unjustifiably infringe section 7 of the \"Charter\", and that this violation was not saved under section 1.\n\nThe Court found that the trial judge was not bound by the Supreme Court's 1993 decision in \"Rodriguez v British Columbia (AG)\", instead holding that \"stare decisis\" is \"not a straitjacket that condemns the law to stasis\". The Court expanded on their discussion of the issue in \"Canada (AG) v Bedford\" by ruling trial judges may reconsider the decisions of higher courts if there is a new legal issue at bar, and if circumstances or evidence have \"fundamentally shift[ed] the parameters of the debate\". The Court found that the section 7 legal issues raised in the case at bar differed from those in \"Rodriguez\", noting in particular the development of the overbreadth and gross disproportionality principles since 1993. The court also determined that the trial judge was entitled to consider the different \"matrix of legislative and social facts\" that had arisen since \"Rodriguez\".\n\nThe Court affirmed that section 241(b) of the \"Criminal Code\" fell within the federal government's section 91(27) criminal law power. Echoing their decision in \"Canada (AG) v PHS Community Services Society\", the Court dismissed the appellants' argument that section 241(b) lay within the core of the provincial section 92 powers. Interjurisdictional immunity could not prevent the federal government from enacting the legislation, since the proposed core of the provincial health powers was overly vague. The Court reaffirmed that health is an area of concurrent jurisdiction, allowing both the federal and provincial legislatures to legislate in the area.\n\nThe decision was well received by many, but characterized as judicial activism by others. The BCCLA, appellants at the Supreme Court, were \"overjoyed\" by the ruling, holding that \"physician-assisted dying will now be recognized for what it is—a medical service\". The day of the decision, Andrew Coyne wrote in his \"National Post\" column that the Court was being eerily complacent about ramifications of its decision. He also argued that the decision signaled the death of judicial restraint in Canada. Former politician Stockwell Day was particularly critical of the Court, saying, \"[I]f you want to write laws, you should run for office.\" In an op-ed published on Canadian Broadcasting Corporation's website, he called for a nationwide debate concerning assisted-suicide legislation. In response to \"Carter\", Conrad Black argued politicians should invoke the notwithstanding clause to send a message to the court that Parliament is supreme.\n\nThe February 2015 Supreme Court decision in \"Carter v Canada (AG\") limits physician-assisted suicides to \"a competent adult person who clearly consents to the termination of life and has a grievous and irremediable medical condition, including an illness, disease or disability, that causes enduring suffering that is intolerable to the individual in the circumstances of his or her condition\". The ruling was suspended for 12 months to allow the Canadian parliament to draft a new, constitutional law to replace the existing one.\n\nThe Canadian Medical Association (\"CMA\") reported that not all doctors were willing to help a patient die. However, the belief in late 2015 was that no physician would be forced to do so but the CMA was offering educational sessions to members as to the process that would be used.\n\nSpecifically the Supreme Court held that the current legislation was overbroad in that it prohibits \"physician‑assisted death for a competent adult person who (1) clearly consents to the termination of life and (2) has a grievous and irremediable medical condition (including an illness, disease or disability) that causes enduring suffering that is intolerable to the individual in the circumstances of his or her condition.\"\n\nThe government subsequently requested a six-month extension for implementation; the arguments for this request were scheduled to be heard by the Supreme Court in January 2016.\n\nThe court decision includes a requirement that there must be stringent limits that are \"scrupulously monitored.\" This will require the death certificate to be completed by an independent medical examiner, not the treating physician, to ensure the accuracy of reporting the cause of death.\n\nAfter a lengthy delay, the House of Commons passed a Bill (C-14) in mid-June 2016 that would allow for doctor-assisted suicide in the case of a terminal illness. The bill was then debated in the Senate. Initially, the Senate amended the bill, expanding the right to die. However, when it became apparent that the elected House of Commons would not accept the amendment, a final vote was held on 17 June 2016. At that time, a majority agreed with the restrictive wording provided by the House of Commons indicating that \"only patients suffering from incurable illness whose natural death is 'reasonably foreseeable' are eligible for a medically assisted death,\" as summarized by the \"Toronto Star\". Critics of the Bill indicate that the \"Carter\" decision was broader, including desperately ill individuals and not only those who are terminally ill or near death. The House of Commons did accept a few Senate amendments, such as requiring that patients be counselled about alternatives, including palliative care and barring beneficiaries from acting in the euthanasia. The bill was given Royal assent the same day.\n\nSenators such as Serge Joyal who disagree with the restrictive wording believe that one of the provinces should refer the issue to its Court of Appeal for an opinion; this tactic would help to move the process along and would preclude the need for individuals to proceed with a very expensive appeal process.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20307983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20307983", "title": "Cotton Futures Act of 1916", "text": "Cotton Futures Act of 1916\n\nThe Cotton Futures Act of 1916 required the principal, meaning the exact type and grade of cotton, be given to the government upon sale at a cotton exchange, so that the USDA could keep track of what was being grown and where. It replaced the Cotton Futures Act of 1914, which was ruled unconstitutional. \n"}
{"id": "3097591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3097591", "title": "Covenant marriage", "text": "Covenant marriage\n\nCovenant marriage is a legally distinct kind of marriage in three states (Arizona, Arkansas, and Louisiana) of the United States, in which the marrying spouses agree to obtain pre-marital counseling and accept more limited grounds for later seeking divorce (the least strict of which being that the couple lives apart from each other for only one year). Louisiana became the first state to pass a covenant marriage law in 1997; shortly afterwards, Arkansas and Arizona followed suit. Since its inception, very few couples in those states have married under covenant marriage law.\n\nPrior to entering into a covenant marriage, a couple must attend premarital counseling sessions \"emphasizing the nature, purposes, and responsibilities of marriage\" and must sign a statement declaring \"that a covenant marriage is for life.\" In contrast to no-fault divorce's more lenient requirements for non-covenant marriages, a spouse in a covenant marriage desiring a divorce may first be required to attend marital counseling. A spouse desiring a divorce must also prove that one of the following is true:\n\nIn many cases, such as in Pennsylvania, there is little difference between divorce under covenant marriage divorce law in other states, and divorce under no-fault divorce law in states such as Pennsylvania. For example, standard no-fault divorce in Pennsylvania also permits contested divorce \"only\" after parties have been separated for at least one year.\n\nCouples married without a covenant marriage may also accept the obligations of a covenant marriage at a later date.\n\nDespite the goals of covenant marriage proponents, in the three states with covenant marriage statutes, only an extremely small minority of newlyweds has chosen covenant marriage. In Louisiana, between 2000 and 2010, only about 1 percent of marrying couples chose a covenant marriage, with the other 99 percent choosing to marry under standard marriage laws permitting no-fault divorce. In Arizona, estimates of the rate of covenant marriage among new couples range from 0.25 percent to 1 percent. In Arkansas, a similarly very small number of couples choose covenant marriage.\n\nAccording to proponents of covenant marriage, the movement sets out to promote and strengthen marriages, reduce the rate of divorce, lessen the number of children born out of wedlock, discourage cohabitation, and frame marriage as an honorable and desirable institution.\n\nCritics of covenant marriage have described it \"as an example of religion harnessing state power\" and creating roadblocks to no-fault divorce that \"could easily exacerbate\" a bad family \"situation and harm kids.\" According to these critics, \"[w]aiting periods and mandatory classes 'add a new frustration to already frustrated lives'\" and are merely \"a form of paternalism - expanding government in pursuit of socially conservative ends.\" \n\nCovenant marriage law is technically written neutrally with respect to religion, however many view covenant marriage law as government permitting a religious form of marriage, particularly due to its historical background. Indeed, Katherine Spaht, a founder of the Louisiana Family Forum, and a proponent of Louisiana's covenant marriage law, stated that \"[a]nother less obvious objective of the legislation, which is reflected in who may perform the mandatory premarital counseling, is to revitalize and reinvigorate the 'community' known as the church. Reinvigoration results from inviting religion back 'into the public square' ...\" Tony Perkins, a sponsor of the Louisiana Covenant Marriage Bill and another founder of the Louisiana Family Forum, described covenant marriage as fostering an environment for \"traditional family values\" that are \"up to the faith community.\"\n"}
{"id": "13283278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13283278", "title": "Emanation of the state", "text": "Emanation of the state\n\nEmanation of the state is a term used in European law to describe any body which provides a public service under the control of government. The term was defined by the European Court of Justice (ECJ) in Foster, A and others v. British Gas plc. The ECJ's ruling defines the term as:\nA body, whatever its legal form, which has been made responsible, pursuant to a measure adopted by the state, for providing a public service under the control of the state and has for that purpose special powers beyond that which result from the normal rules applicable in relations between individuals.\n\nThe term is most obviously used to describe public sector employers, such as the police, fire service, local government bodies or schools.\n\nThis case was referred to the ECJ by the House of Lords in 1990. The issue to be decided was whether employees of a nationalised industry (in this case British Gas plc) could rely upon the Equal Treatment Directive when making claims in the English courts.\n\nBritish Gas dismissed female employees when they reached 60, the compulsory retirement age for women at the time, however male employees were not required to retire until 65. At the time, the Sex Discrimination Act did not prevent discrimination in retirement age, so the employees' only recourse was to the Equal Treatment Directive.\n\nThe court found in favour of the employees. The gist of the finding was that when a state has failed to implement a directive as required, that state should not be allowed to benefit from the failure. Therefore, the provisions of the Equal Treatment Directive (and any other EU directive) can be relied upon against any organisation that is an emanation of the state.\n\n"}
{"id": "3124434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3124434", "title": "Ford Otosan", "text": "Ford Otosan\n\nFord Otomotiv Sanayi A.Ş. (\"Ford Automotive Industry\") is an automotive manufacturing company based in Turkey that is equally owned by Ford Motor Company and Koç Holding. It was established in its current form in 1977, with original relations dating back to 1928. It currently operates five facilities throughout the country, and is headquartered in Gölcük, with a second location in İnönü.\n\nThe collaboration began in 1928, when Vehbi Koç was assigned as Ford dealer in Ankara. The following year, the Turkish national assembly granted to Ford the right to install a local assembly operation in a free zone located in Istanbul's port area. Limited numbers of vehicles were assembled there until 1934, when these activities were suspended.\n\nIn 1959, the foundation of the Otosan factory was held in Istanbul, and in 1960 the Ford Consul was the first model to be produced at the plant, followed by the Thames and the Thames Trader van. In 1965, the D1210 truck was added to production, and in 1966, the Anadol, the first mass-production passenger vehicle developed in Turkey. In 1967, the Ford Transit also began production and in 1973, the Anadol STC-16, the first sports car developed in Turkey.\n\nIn 1977, the company signed a license agreement with Ford and the company's name was changed to Ford Otosan. In 1979, took place the groundbreaking ceremony for a new factory in İnönü, Eskişehir, which began production of the Ford Cargo in 1983. Also that year, Ford increased its share of ownership in the company to 30 percent. In 1985, the Ford Taunus begins production at the Istanbul plant, and in 1986 the official opening ceremony for the İnönü engine plant is held.\n\nIn 1992, the newer Ford Transit was put into production, and in 1993 the Ford Escort replaced the Ford Taunus on the production lines. In 1997, Ford further increased its share in the company to 41 percent, becoming equal partner with Koç Holding in the joint venture. In 1998, the groundbreaking ceremony was held for the new factory in Gölcük, Kocaeli, that became operational in 2001, replacing the Istanbul facility. It is aimed mainly at commercial vehicle production, and manufactures the Ford Transit and the Ford Transit Connect, both models being marketed worldwide. In 2003, the company launched a new generation of the Ford Cargo heavy-duty truck.\n\nIn September 2012, Ford revealed its new version of the Transit, and in January 2013 the new Cargo heavy truck was unveiled. The latter was co-developed by Ford Otosan in partnership with \nFord Brazil, and will be manufactured in both countries.\n\nIn September 2018, at the IAA Commercial Vehicles show in Hannover, Germany, Ford introduced an electric tractor trailer concept vehicle dubbed the F-Vision, which would have Level 4 autonomous driving capability.\n\nThe company operates five facilities throughout the country. The Kocaeli Plant, located in Gölcük, was opened in 2001, and has been the main global production center for the Transit and the Transit Connect. It has an annual production capacity of 320,000 vehicles and has its own port.\n\nThe İnönü Plant, located in Eskişehir, began operating in 1982, and has been the production center of the Cargo heavy truck, as well as for engines and powertrains. It has an annual capacity of 10,000 trucks, 66,000 engines and 45,000 gearboxes.\n\nThe Kartal Parts Distribution Center, located in the Sancaktepe district of Istanbul, has been operating since 1998, and it is the marketing centre of the company's marketing, sales, after-sales and spare parts operations.\n\nThe Sancaktepe Engineering Center, located in the Sancaktepe district of Istanbul, was established in 2014, and is responsible for the development of the newest products and technologies. It employs over 1000 product development engineers.\n\nThe Yeniköy plant started production of the Transit/Tourneo Courier in the second quarter of 2014. It is located within the Kocaeli facility, but as a different production plant, with a starting capacity of 110,000 vehicles per year.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3453905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3453905", "title": "General Order No. 11 (1863)", "text": "General Order No. 11 (1863)\n\nGeneral Order No. 11 is the title of a Union Army directive issued during the American Civil War on August 25, 1863, forcing the evacuation of rural areas in four counties in western Missouri. The order, issued by Union General Thomas Ewing, Jr., affected all rural residents regardless of their allegiance. Those who could prove their loyalty to the Union were permitted to stay in the affected area, but had to leave their farms and move to communities near military outposts (see villagization). Those who could not do so had to vacate the area altogether.\n\nWhile intended to deprive pro-Confederate guerrillas of material support from the rural countryside, the severity of the Order's provisions and the nature of its enforcement alienated vast numbers of civilians, and ultimately led to conditions in which guerrillas were given greater support and access to supplies than before. It was repealed in January 1864, as a new general took command of Union forces in the region.\n\nMore than 140 years later, towns impacted by General Order No. 11 are still less developed than their neighbors.\n\nOrder No. 11 was issued four days after the August 21 Lawrence Massacre, a retaliatory killing of men and boys led by Confederate bushwhacker leader William Quantrill. The Union Army believed Quantrill's guerrillas drew their support from the rural population of four Missouri counties on the Kansas border, south of the Missouri River. These were: Bates, Cass, Jackson, and part of Vernon. Following the slaughter in Lawrence, Federal forces were determined to end such raiding and insurgency by any means necessary—no matter what the cost might be to innocent civilians. Hence, General Thomas Ewing, who had lost several lifelong friends in the raid, issued Order No. 11. Ewing's decree ordered the expulsion of all residents from these counties except for those living within one mile of the town limits of Independence, Hickman Mills, Pleasant Hill, and Harrisonville. The area of Kansas City, Missouri north of Brush Creek and west of the Blue River, referred to as \"Big Blue\" in the order, was also spared.\n\nPresident Abraham Lincoln approved Ewing's order, but he cautioned that the military must take care not to permit vigilante enforcement. This warning was almost invariably ignored. Ewing had issued his order a day before he received a nearly identical directive from his superior, Major General John Schofield. Whereas Ewing's decree tried to distinguish between pro-Union and pro-Confederate civilians, Schofield's allowed no exceptions and was significantly harsher. Ewing's order was allowed to stand, and Schofield would later describe it as \"wise and just; in fact, a necessity.\"\n\nOrder No. 11 was not only intended to retard pro-Southern depredations, but renegade pro-Union activity, as well. Ewing not only had his hands full with Confederate raiders; he equally had troubles with Unionist Jayhawkers, led by radical Kansas Senator James Lane. There was immense anger sweeping Kansas following Quantrill's raid. Convinced that Ewing was not retaliating sufficiently against Missourians, Lane threatened to lead a Kansas force into Missouri, laying waste to the four counties named in Ewing's decree, and more. On September 9, 1863, Lane gathered nearly a thousand Kansans at Paola, Kansas, and marched towards Westport, Missouri, with an eye towards destruction of that pro-slavery town. Ewing sent several companies of his old Eleventh Kansas Infantry (now mounted as cavalry) to stop Lane's advance—by force, if necessary. Faced with this superior Federal force, Lane ultimately backed down. Order No. 11 was partially intended to Missourians as \"rebels\" to be punished, even though many residents of the four counties named in Ewing's orders were pro-Union or neutralist in sentiment. Animals were killed, and farm property were stolen or destroyed; houses, barns and outbuildings were burned to the ground. Some civilians were even summarily executed—a few as old as seventy years of age. Ewing's four counties became a devastated \"no man's land,\" with only charred chimneys and burnt stubble showing where homes and thriving communities had once stood, earning the sobriquet \"The Burnt District.\" There are very few remaining antebellum homes in this area due to the Order.\ndemonstrate that the Union forces intended to act forcefully against Quantrill and other bushwhackers, thus rendering vigilante actions (such as the one contemplated by Lane) unnecessary—and thereby preventing their occurrence, which Ewing was determined at all costs to do.\n\nEwing ordered his troops not to engage in looting or other depredations, but he was ultimately unable to control them. Most were Kansas volunteers, who regarded all of the inhabitants of the affected counties as rebels with property subject to military confiscation. Ewing's order had the opposite military effect from what he intended: instead of eliminating the guerrillas, it gave them immediate and practically unlimited access to supplies. For instance, the Bushwhackers were able to help themselves to abandoned chickens, hogs and cattle, left behind when their owners were forced to flee. Smokehouses were sometimes found to contain hams and bacon, while barns often held feed for horses. Although Federal troops ultimately burned most of the outlying farms and houses, they were unable to prevent Confederates from initially acquiring vast amounts of food and other useful material from abandoned dwellings.\n\nEwing eased his order in November, issuing General Order No. 20, which permitted the return of those who could prove their loyalty to the Union. In January 1864, command over the border counties passed to General Egbert Brown, who disapproved of Order No. 11. He almost immediately replaced it with a new directive, one that allowed anyone who would take an oath of allegiance to the Union to return and rebuild their homes.\n\nEwing's controversial order greatly disrupted the lives of thousands of civilians, most of whom were innocent of any guerrilla collaboration. The evidence is not conclusive whether Order No. 11 seriously hindered Confederate military operations. No raids into Kansas took place after its issuance, but historian Albert Castel credits this not to Order No. 11, but rather to strengthened border defenses and a better organized Home Guard, plus a guerrilla focus on operations in northern and central Missouri in preparation for General Sterling Price's 1864 invasion.\n\nThe infamous destruction and hatred inspired by Ewing's Order No. 11 would persist throughout western Missouri for many decades as the affected counties slowly tried to recover.\n\nAuthor Caroline Abbot Stanley's 1904 \"Order No. 11\" is based on the events surrounding the order.\n\nAmerican artist George Caleb Bingham, who was a Conservative Unionist and bitter enemy of Ewing, called Order No. 11 an \"act of imbecility\" and wrote letters protesting it. Bingham wrote to Gen. Ewing, \"If you execute this order, I shall make you infamous with pen and brush,\" and in 1868 created his famous painting reflecting the consequences of Ewing's harsh edict (see above). Former guerrilla Frank James, a participant in the Lawrence, Kansas raid, is said to have commented: \"This is a picture that talks.\" Historian Albert Castel described it as \"mediocre art but excellent propaganda.\"\n\nBingham, who was in Kansas City at the time, described the events:\n\nIt is well-known that men were shot down in the very act of obeying the order, and their wagons and effects seized by their murderers. Large trains of wagons, extending over the prairies for miles in length, and moving Kansasward, were freighted with every description of household furniture and wearing apparel belonging to the exiled inhabitants. Dense columns of smoke arising in every direction marked the conflagrations of dwellings, many of the evidences of which are yet to be seen in the remains of seared and blackened chimneys, standing as melancholy monuments of a ruthless military despotism which spared neither age, sex, character, nor condition. There was neither aid nor protection afforded to the banished inhabitants by the heartless authority which expelled them from their rightful possessions. They crowded by hundreds upon the banks of the Missouri River, and were indebted to the charity of benevolent steamboat conductors for transportation to places of safety where friendly aid could be extended to them without danger to those who ventured to contribute it.\n\nBingham insisted that the real culprits behind most of the depredations committed in western Missouri and eastern Kansas were not the pro-Confederate bushwhackers, but rather pro-Union Jayhawkers and \"Red Legs,\" whom he accused of operating under the protection of General Ewing himself. According to Bingham, Union troops might easily have defeated the Bushwhackers if they had tried hard enough, and exercised a requisite amount of personal courage. Albert Castel refutes Bingham's assertions, however, demonstrating that Ewing made conspicuous efforts to rein in the Jayhawkers, and to stop the violence on both sides. He furthermore argues that Ewing issued Order No. 11 at least partly in a desperate attempt to stop a planned Unionist raid on Missouri intended to exact revenge for the Lawrence massacre, to be led by Kansas Senator Jim Lane himself (see above).\n\nFurther scholarship indicates that although Bingham's son used the painting in 1880 to attack Ewing when he ran for Governor of Ohio, it did not prove to be the deciding influence in Ewing's narrow loss. President Rutherford Hayes, a Ewing family friend but political opponent of Ewing's campaign, urged Ohio Republicans not to use the painting as it would show Ewing's strong war record against the South, which was contrary to his effort to show Ewing as a weak business leader, and a repudiationist on hard money/soft money issues. This more recent scholarship reviews Ohio newspaper accounts of the 1880 campaign, and indicates Ewing, running as a Democrat, faced significant third-party challenges, and was trying to oust the Republicans during a time of economic prosperity—always a difficult political task, at best.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15163138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15163138", "title": "History of passive solar building design", "text": "History of passive solar building design\n\n\nThe techniques of passive solar building design were practiced for thousands of years, by necessity, before the advent of mechanical heating and cooling. It has remained a traditional part of vernacular architecture in many countries. There is evidence that ancient cultures considered factors such as solar orientation, thermal mass and ventilation in the construction of residential dwellings. Fully developed solar architecture and urban planning methods were first employed by the Greeks and Chinese who oriented ( faced) their buildings toward the south to provide light and warmth. Nearly two and a half millennia ( 1,000) ago, the ancient Greek philosopher Aeschylus wrote, \"Only primitives & barbarians lack knowledge of houses turned to face the Winter sun.\" Similarly, Socrates said: \"Now, supposing a house to have a southern aspect, sunshine during winter will steal in under the verandah, but in summer, when the sun traverses a path right over our heads, the roof will afford an agreeable shade, will it not?\" Roman bathhouses had large south facing windows. Solar design was largely abandoned in Europe after the Fall of Rome but continued unabated in China where cosmological traditions associate the south with summer, warmth and health.\n\n Although earlier experimental solar houses were constructed using a mixture of active and passive solar techniques, some of the first European engineered passive solar houses of the modern era were built in Germany after World War I, when the Allies occupied the Ruhr area, including most of Germany's coal mines. \nArchitect George F. Keck was a pioneering designer of passive solar houses in the 1930s and 40s. He designed the all-glass \"House of Tomorrow\" for the 1933 Century of Progress Exposition in Chicago and noted that it was warm inside on sunny winter days prior to the installation of the furnace. Following this he gradually started incorporating more south-facing windows into his designs for other clients, and in 1940 designed a passive solar home for real estate developer Howard Sloan in Glenview, Illinois. The Sloan House was called a \"solar house\" by the Chicago Tribune, the first modern use of that term. Sloan then built a number of passive solar houses, and his publicity efforts contributed to a significant \"solar house\" movement in the 1940s.\n\nFrank Lloyd Wright used passive solar principles in some of his designs, most notably in the Jacobs House, built in 1944 in Wisconsin, which was also known as the \"Solar Hemicycle\" or \"Solar Hemicyclo.\"\n\nIn the United States, interest in passive solar building design was significantly stimulated by the 1973 oil crisis. Dozens of pattern books were published in this period, including the \"Passive Solar Energy Book\" by Edward Mazria. In 1977, the U.S. Department of Energy was created, and in 1978 Solar Energy Tax credits were provided. In 1979, President Carter installed solar panels on the roof of the White House.\n\nPassive solar technologies were incrementally refined and greatly improved during the 20th century, boosted by the motivation of the, and aided by the development of 3D computer modelling techniques.\n\nAt the start of the 21st century, passive solar building design has received greater interest. U.S. Solar Energy Tax Credits were reinstated in 2005, and the 2007 Energy Bill provided more funding for solar energy research and solar air conditioning.\n\nThe U.S. Department of Energy's 2007 \"Thermal Performance of the Exterior Envelopes of Whole Buildings International Conference\" presented a comprehensive workshop on \"Three Decades of Passive Solar Heating and Cooling Lessons Learned\"\n\nSince 1978, roughly 300,000 U.S. buildings have demonstrated at least some passive solar design features (although over 25 million U.S. buildings have been constructed since then without using these techniques). For three decades - since the 1978 U.S. Solar Energy Tax Credits, 70% to 90% energy consumption reduction has demonstrated in experimental construction passive solar and near zero energy buildings.\"Side By Side Comparison\"\n\nIn recent years, the U.S. Department of Energy's Solar Decathlon has demonstrated some advanced creative designs, using both passive and active solar systems, by architecture and engineering student teams from around the world. Solar Decathlon website\n\n"}
{"id": "21624057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21624057", "title": "Indian labour law", "text": "Indian labour law\n\nIndian labour law refers to laws regulating labour in India. Traditionally, Indian governments at federal and state level have sought to ensure a high degree of protection for workers, but in practice, form of government and because labour is a subject in the concurrent list of the Indian Constitution,\n\nIndian labour law is closely connected to the Indian independence movement, and the campaigns of passive resistance leading up to independence. While India was under colonial rule by the British Raj, labour rights, trade unions, and freedom of association were all suppressed. Workers who sought better conditions, and trade unions who campaigned through strike action were frequently, and violently suppressed. After independence was won in 1947, the Constitution of India of 1950 embedded a series of fundamental labour rights in the constitution, particularly the right to join and take action in a trade union, the principle of equality at work, and the aspiration of creating a living wage with decent working conditions.\n\n\nIn the Constitution of India from 1950, articles 14-16, 19(1)(c), 23-24, 38, and 41-43A directly concern labour rights. Article 14 states everyone should be equal before the law, article 15 specifically says the state should not discriminate against citizens, and article 16 extends a right of \"equality of opportunity\" for employment or appointment under the state. Article 19(1)(c) gives everyone a specific right \"to form associations or unions\". Article 23 prohibits all trafficking and forced labour, while article 24 prohibits child labour under 14 years old in a factory, mine or \"any other hazardous employment\".\n\nArticles 38-39, and 41-43A, however, like all rights listed in Part IV of the Constitution are not enforceable by courts, rather than creating an aspirational \"duty of the State to apply these principles in making laws\". The original justification for leaving such principles unenforceable by the courts was that democratically accountable institutions ought to be left with discretion, given the demands they could create on the state for funding from general taxation, although such views have since become controversial. Article 38(1) says that in general the state should \"strive to promote the welfare of the people\" with a \"social order in which justice, social, economic and political, shall inform all the institutions of national life. In article 38(2) it goes on to say the state should \"minimise the inequalities in income\" and based on all other statuses. Article 41 creates a \"right to work\", which the National Rural Employment Guarantee Act 2005 attempts to put into practice. Article 42 requires the state to \"make provision for securing just and human conditions of work and for maternity relief\". Article 43 says workers should have the right to a living wage and \"conditions of work ensuring a decent standard of life\". Article 43A, inserted by the Forty-second Amendment of the Constitution of India in 1976, creates a constitutional right to codetermination by requiring the state to legislate to \"secure the participation of workers in the management of undertakings\".\n\nIndian labour law makes a distinction between people who work in \"organised\" sectors and people working in \"unorganised sectors\". The laws list the different industrial sectors to which various labour rights apply. People who do not fall within these sectors, the ordinary law of contract applies.\n\nIndia's labour laws underwent a major update in the Industrial Disputes Act of 1947. Since then, an additional 45 national laws expand or intersect with the 1948 act, and another 200 state laws control the relationships between the worker and the company. These laws mandate all aspects of employer-employee interaction, such as companies must keep 6 attendance logs, 10 different accounts for overtime wages, and file 5 types of annual returns. The scope of labour laws extend from regulating the height of urinals in workers' washrooms to how often a work space must be lime-washed. Inspectors can examine working space anytime and declare fines for violation of any labour laws and regulations.\n\nAmong the employment contracts that are regulated in India, the regulation involves significant government involvement which is rare in developed countries. The Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act 1946 requires that employers have terms including working hours, leave, productivity goals, dismissal procedures or worker classifications, approved by a government body.\n\nThe Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act 1970 aims at regulating employment of contract labour so as to place it at par with labour employed directly. Women are now permitted to work night shifts too (10 pm to 6 am).\n\nThe Latin phrase 'dies non' is being widely used by disciplinary authorities in government and industries for denoting the 'unauthorised absence' to the delinquent employees. According to Shri R. P. Saxena, chief engineer, Indian Railways, dies-non is a period which neither counted in service nor considered as break in service. A person can be marked dies-non, if\n\n\nIn cases of such willful and unauthorised absence from work, the leave sanctioning authority may decide and order that the days on which the work is not performed be treated as dies non-on the principle of no work no pay. This will be without prejudice to any other action that the competent authority might take against the persons resorting to such practises. The principle of \"no work no pay\" is widely being used in the banking industry in India. All other manufacturing industries and large service establishments like railways, posts and telecommunications are also implementing it to minimise the incidences of unauthorised absence of workers. The term 'industry' infuses a contractual relationship between the employer and the employee for sale of products and services which are produced through their cooperative endeavor.\n\nThis contract together with the need to put in efforts in producing goods and services imposes duties (including ancillary duties) and obligations on the part of the employees to render services with the tools provided and in a place and time fixed by the employer. And in return, as a quid pro quo, the employer is enjoined to pay wages for work done and or for fulfilling the contract of employment. Duties generally, including ancillary duties, additional duties, normal duties, emergency duties, which have to be done by the employees and payment of wages therefor. Where the contract of employment is not fulfilled or work is not done as prescribed, the principle of 'no work no pay' is brought into play.\n\nThe Payment of Wages Act 1936 requires that employees receive wages, on time, and without any unauthorised deductions. Section 6 requires that people are paid in money rather than in kind. The law also provides the tax withholdings the employer must deduct and pay to the central or state government before distributing the wages.\n\nThe Minimum Wages Act 1948 sets wages for the different economic sectors that it states it will cover. It leaves a large number of workers unregulated. Central and state governments have discretion to set wages according to kind of work and location, and they range between as much as 143 to 1120 per day for work in the so-called central sphere. State governments have their own minimum wage schedules.\n\nThe Payment of Gratuity Act 1972 applies to establishments with 10 or more workers. Gratuity is payable to the employee if he or she resigns or retires. The Indian government mandates that this payment be at the rate of 15 days salary of the employee for each completed year of service subject to a maximum of 2000000.\n\nThe Payment of Bonus Act 1965, which applies only to enterprises with over 20 people, requires bonuses are paid out of profits based on productivity. The minimum bonus is currently 8.33 per cent of salary.\n\nWeekly Holidays Act 1942 \n\nBeedi and Cigar Workers Act 1967 \n\nThe Workmen's Compensation Act 1923 requires that compensation is paid if workers are injured in the course of employment for injuries, or benefits to dependants. The rates are low.\n\n\nThe Employees' Provident Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions Act 1952 created the Employees' Provident Fund Organisation of India. This functions as a pension fund for old age security for the organised workforce sector. For those workers, it creates Provident Fund to which employees and employers contribute equally, and the minimum contributions are 10-12 per cent of wages. On retirement, employees may draw their pension.\n\n\nThe Employees' State Insurance provides health and social security insurance. This was created by the Employees' State Insurance Act 1948.\n\nThe Unorganised Workers' Social Security Act 2008 was passed to extend the coverage of life and disability benefits, health and maternity benefits, and old age protection for unorganised workers. \"Unorganised\" is defined as home-based workers, self-employed workers or daily-wage workers. The state government was meant to formulate the welfare system through rules produced by the National Social Security Board.\n\nThe Maternity Benefit Act 1961, creates rights to payments of maternity benefits for any woman employee who worked in any establishment for a period of at least 80 days during the 12 months immediately preceding the date of her expected delivery. On March 30, 2017 the President of India Pranab Mukherjee approved the Maternity Benefit (Amendment) Act, 2017 which provides for 26-weeks paid maternity leave for women employees.\n\nThe Employees’ Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952, provides for compulsory contributory fund for the future of an employee after his/her retirement or for his/her dependents in case of employee's early death. It extends to the whole of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir and is applicable to:\n\nArticle 19(1)(c) of the Constitution of India gives everyone an enforceable right \"to form associations or unions\".\n\nThe Trade Unions Act 1926, amended in 2001, contains rules on governance and general rights of trade unions.\n\nIt was the view of many in the Indian Independence Movement, including Mahatma Gandhi, that workers had as much of a right to participate in management of firms as shareholders or other property owners. Article 43A of the Constitution, inserted by the Forty-second Amendment of the Constitution of India in 1976, created a right to codetermination by requiring the state to legislate to \"secure the participation of workers in the management of undertakings\". However, like other rights in Part IV, this article is not directly enforceable but instead creates a duty upon state organs to implement its principles through legislation (and potentially through court cases). In 1978 the Sachar Report recommended legislation for inclusion of workers on boards, however this had not yet been implemented.\n\nThe Industrial Disputes Act 1947 section 3 created a right of participation in joint work councils to \"provide measures for securing amity and good relations between the employer and workmen and, to that end to comment upon matters of their common interest or concern and endeavour to compose any material difference of opinion in respect of such matters\". However, trade unions had not taken up these options on a large scale. In \"National Textile Workers Union v Ramakrishnan\" the Supreme Court, Bhagwati J giving the leading judgment, held that employees had a right to be heard in a winding up petition of a company because their interests were directly affected and their standing was not excluded by the wording of the Companies Act 1956 section 398.\n\n\nThe Industrial Disputes Act 1947 regulates how employers may address industrial disputes such as lockouts, layoffs, retrenchment etc. It controls the lawful processes for reconciliation, adjudication of labour disputes.\n\nAccording to fundamental rules (FR 17A) of the civil service of India, a period of unauthorised absence- (i) in the case of employees working in industrial establishments, during a strike which has been declared illegal under the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, or any other law for the time being in force; (ii) in the case of other employees as a result of action in combination or in concerted manner, such as during a strike, without any authority from, or valid reason to the satisfaction of the competent authority; shall be deemed to cause an interruption or break in the service of the employee, unless otherwise decided by the competent authority for the purpose of leave travel concession, quasi-permanency and eligibility for appearing in departmental examinations, for which a minimum period of continuous service is required. hanalcasca, xnak\n\n\nArticle 14 states everyone should be equal before the law, article 15 specifically says the state should not discriminate against citizens, and article 16 extends a right of \"equality of opportunity\" for employment or appointment under the state. Article 23 prohibits all trafficking and forced labour, while article 24 prohibits child labour under 14 years old in a factory, mine or \"any other hazardous employment\".\n\n\nArticle 39(d) of the Constitution provides that men and women should receive equal pay for equal work. In the Equal Remuneration Act 1976 implemented this principle in legislation.\n\n\n\nBonded Labour System (Abolition) Act 1976, abolishes bonded labour, but estimates suggest that between 2 million and 5 million workers still remain in debt bondage in India.\n\n\nChild labour in India is prohibited by the Constitution, article 24, in factories, mines and hazardous employment, and that under article 21 the state should provide free and compulsory education up to a child is aged 14. However, in practice, the laws are absolutely not enforced. \n\nSome of India's most controversial labour laws concern the procedures for dismissal contained in the Industrial Disputes Act 1947. A workman who has been employed for over a year can only be dismissed if permission is sought from and granted by the appropriate government office. Additionally, before dismissal, valid reasons must be given, and there is a wait of at least two months for government permission, before a lawful termination can take effect. \n\nA permanent worker can be terminated only for proven misconduct or for habitual absence. The Industrial Disputes Act (1947) requires companies employing more than 100 workers to seek government approval before they can fire employees or close down. In practice, permissions for firing employees are seldom granted. Indian laws require a company to get permission for dismissing workers with plant closing, even if it is necessary for economic reasons. The government may grant or deny permission for closing, even if the company is losing money on the operation.\n\nThe dismissed worker has a right to appeal, even if the government has granted the dismissal application. Indian labour regulations provide for a number of appeal and adjudicating authorities – conciliation officers, conciliation boards, courts of inquiry, labour courts, industrial tribunals and the national industrial tribunal – under the Industrial Disputes Act. These involve complex procedures. Beyond these labour appeal and adjucating procedures, the case can proceed to respective State High Court or finally the Supreme Court of India.\n\n\nRedundancy pay must be given, set at 15 days' average pay for each complete year of continuous service. An employee who has worked for 4 years in addition to various notices and due process, must be paid a minimum of the employee's wage equivalent to 60 days before retrenchment, if the government grants the employer a permission to lay off.\n\n\nThe Industries (Regulation and Development) Act 1951 declared that manufacturing industries under its First Schedule were under common central government regulations in addition to whatever laws state government enact. It reserved over 600 products that can only be manufactured in small-scale enterprises, thereby regulating who can enter in these businesses, and above all placing a limit on the number of employees per company for the listed products. The list included all key technology and industrial products in the early 1950s, including products ranging from certain iron and steel products, fuel derivatives, motors, certain machinery, machine tools, to ceramics and scientific equipment.\n\nEach state in India may have special labour regulations in certain circumstances.\n\nIn 2004 the State of Gujarat amended the Industrial Disputes Act to allow greater labour market flexibility in the Special Export Zones of Gujarat. The law allows companies within SEZs to lay off redundant workers, without seeking the permission of the government, by giving a formal notice and severance pay.\n\nThe West Bengal government revised its labour laws making it virtually impossible to shut down a loss-making factory. The West Bengal law applies to all companies within the state that employ 50 or more employees.\n\nThe table below contrasts the labour laws in India to those in China and United States, as of 2011.\n\nMany observers have argued that India's labour laws should be reformed.\n\nAccording to a World Bank report in 2008, heavy reform would be desirable. The executive summary stated,\n\nEx-Prime Minister Manmohan Singh had said that new labour laws are needed.\n\nIn Uttam Nakate case, the Bombay High Court held that dismissing an employee for repeated sleeping on the factory floor was illegal - a decision which was overturned by the Supreme Court of India. Moreover, it took two decades to complete the legal process. In 2008, the World Bank criticised the complexity, lack of modernisation and flexibility in Indian regulations.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58615253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58615253", "title": "International Association of Law and Forensic Sciences", "text": "International Association of Law and Forensic Sciences\n\nThe International Association of Law and Forensic Sciences (IALFS) is a registered forensic society founded by police officers, forensic science and forensic medicine experts, coroners, lawyers from different countries around the world. It is headquartered in Egypt. \nThe main mission of the IALFS is to conduct scientific meetings and collaborate with the forensic scientists of different countries in the form of scientific exchange programs. Its founder president is Prof Dr Osama AlMadani and the current president is Prof Dr Sherien Salah Ghaleb. The vice president of the society is Dr Magdy Abdel Azim Kharoshah.\nThe membership to the society occurs in the form of fellowship (FIALFS), and affiliate member.\n\nIALFS brings out an international journal of repute Egyptian Journal of Forensic Sciences being published by Springer Nature.\n"}
{"id": "14411585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14411585", "title": "Irish Conservation Box", "text": "Irish Conservation Box\n\nThe Irish Conservation Box (ICB) or Biologically Sensitive Area (BSA) is a Marine Protected Area stretching along the southwest coast of Ireland. The ICB was defined based on advice from marine biologists, and following review by European Union fisheries ministers of the Common Fisheries Policy, as a means to safeguard the \"biological sensitivity and commercial importance\" of the waters around Ireland.\nExtended from Irish territorial waters, and comprising an area of more than 100,000 km², the ICB stretches from Waterford Harbour to Slyne Head, and follows the 200 metre bathymetric contour line along its western side.\n\nFishing by certain vessels and vessel types is restricted in this area, and vessels over 10 metres long are required to report their catch and movements to the Irish Fisheries' patrol. The Irish Naval Service is tasked with enforcing the special protection measures.\n\nThe Irish Conservation Box replaces a previous protection zone - known as \"the Irish Box\" - which was a larger rectangular 50-mile zone around the whole coast of the island of Ireland and included waters reaching to the western coasts of Scotland, England and Wales.\n\nUnder the (original) Irish box mandate, important spawning and nursery areas for many stocks were protected by - for example - limiting fishing in the zone to no more than 40 foreign vessels at any one time.\n\nBecause of common and \"free-movement\" policies of the EU, certain countries expected access to the zone in the long-term. As a result, there was ongoing lobbying by Spanish and Portuguese politicians of the Committee on Fisheries to remove the limits, and it was effectively abolished in late 2002.\n\nAs part of a 2003 review of the Common Fisheries Policy, and after intense negotiations on a proposal by the then Minister for Communications, Energy and Natural Resources, the Fisheries Council accepted the position that protection of biologically sensitive areas was critical to a conservation policy.\n\nThe renewed Irish Conservation Box regulations came into force in 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "1371439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1371439", "title": "JurisPedia", "text": "JurisPedia\n\nJurisPedia is a wiki encyclopedia of academic law in many languages, currently available in Arabic, Chinese, English, French, German, Spanish and Dutch. It was started in October 2004, inspired in part by Wikipedia and the Enciclopedia Libre (University of Seville). JurisPedia runs on the MediaWiki application, but it is not a Wikimedia Foundation project.\n\nJurisPedia was developed on the initiative of the African Legal Information Institute, the Faculty of law of the Can Tho University (Vietnam), the team of JURIS (Université du Québec à Montréal, Canada), the of Saarland University (Germany), the Institut de Recherche et d'Études en Droit de l'Information et de la Communication (IREDIC) of the Paul Cézanne University.\n\nThe site, one of the largest legal encyclopedias and online legal references, won the Dieter Meurer Prize for Legal Informatics for 2009.\n\nSince 2012, JurisPedia is member of the Free Access to Law Movement.\n\nOn March 10, 2014, the French version of Jurispedia and the Bar Association of Paris have signed an agreement to take part in the creation of the «Great Library of Law » \n\n\n"}
{"id": "315480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=315480", "title": "Jurisdictional strike", "text": "Jurisdictional strike\n\nIn United States labor law, a jurisdictional strike is a concerted refusal to work undertaken by a union to assert its members' right to particular job assignments and to protest the assignment of disputed work to members of another union or to unorganized workers. (Labor unions use the term \"jurisdiction\" to refer to their claims to represent workers who perform a certain type of work and the right of their members to perform such work.) The Taft-Hartley amendments to the National Labor Relations Act empowered the National Labor Relations Board to resolve such jurisdictional disputes and authorized the General Counsel of the NLRB to seek an injunction barring such strikes. \n\nJurisdictional strikes occur most frequently in the United States in the construction industry. Construction unions frequently resolve those disputes through a privately created adjustment system.\n\nIn other countries, jurisdiction strikes are often called demarcation disputes.\n\n"}
{"id": "37512538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37512538", "title": "LM &amp; Others v Government of Namibia", "text": "LM &amp; Others v Government of Namibia\n\nLM & Others v Government of Namibia is a legal case regarding coerced sterilisation of three women. \nThe woman argued they had not properly consented to sterilization due to not being informed of the contents of the consent form, not understanding the medical staff, or coercion by being told their Caesareans would not be performed unless they consented to the sterilization. All the women were HIV-positive and believe they were targeted for sterilization based on this.\nIn 2012, the Namibian High Court held that the women had been coercively sterilised. On appeal, the Supreme Court of Namibia upheld the High Court decision on 3 November 2014.\n\nThe three women applicants had been sterilised at a public hospital when giving birth via Caesarean section. The women argued that any purported consent to the sterilisation had been coerced as they had either not been told the contents of the consent forms they were signing, did not understand the medical staff, or had been told by doctors that their Caesarean surgeries would only be performed if they agreed to a sterilisation.\n\nAll the women are HIV-positive and believe that they were targeted for sterilisation on the basis of their HIV status.\n\nIn 2009 the women, assisted by the Southern Africa Litigation Centre, the Namibia Women’s Health Network and the Legal Assistance Centre, sued the government for damages, claiming that sterilisation without informed consent violates a number of rights. The women argued that the sterilisation infringed their constitutional rights to life, liberty, dignity and to found a family, as well as various common law and personality rights as it diminished their marriage prospects and ability to bear children, impacted on their bodily and psychological integrity and caused shock, pain and suffering and emotional anguish.\n\nThe women also argued that their rights to equality and freedom from discrimination were violated because the sterilisation was as a result of their HIV status.\n\nThe Namibian government denied that there was a policy to sterilise HIV positive women, and denied that the applicants’ consent to sterilisation had been coerced. The government accepted that coerced sterilisation would be a violation of the constitutional rights invoked by the women, but argued that the hospitals had obtained the women’s consent correctly.\n\nOn 30 July 2012, Judge Elton Hoff held that the evidence presented by the women demonstrated that they had not given informed consent to the sterilisations. The High Court found that obtaining consent from the women when they were in labour or in extreme pain could not constitute informed consent. For it to be valid, consent must be clear and unequivocal and be given freely and voluntarily and not induced by fear, fraud or force. The Court held that written consent does not automatically equate to informed consent as the women did not understand what they were signing, and so the fact that the women had signed a consent form could not absolve the hospitals from responsibility.\n\nThe Judge held that the women were entitled to damages which would be determined at a later date.\n\nThe Namibian government appealed the High Court decision to the Supreme Court. On 3 November, the Supreme Court dismissed the appeal and referred the case back to the High Court for the amount of damages to be calculated. Writing for the Court, Chief Justice Peter Shivute distinguished written consent from informed consent that is given freely and voluntarily. The Court held that all three women had not given their informed consent to be sterilised due to the circumstances in which their consent had been obtained, including that they were all in varying degrees of labour at the time.\n"}
{"id": "386327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=386327", "title": "Law School Admission Test", "text": "Law School Admission Test\n\nThe Law School Admission Test (LSAT) is a half-day standardized test administered 6 times each year at designated testing centers throughout the world. Administered by the Law School Admission Council (LSAC) for prospective law school candidates, the LSAT is designed to assess reading comprehension, logical, and verbal reasoning proficiency. The test is an integral part of the law school admission process in the United States, Canada (common law programs only), the University of Melbourne, Australia, and a growing number of other countries.\n\nThe test has existed in some form since 1948, when it was created to give law schools a standardized way to assess applicants aside from GPA. The current form of the exam has been used since 1991. The exam has six total sections: four scored multiple choice sections, an unscored experimental section, and an unscored writing section. Raw scores are converted to a scaled score with a high of 180, a low of 120, and a median score around 150. When an applicant applies to a law school all scores from the past five years are reported, though, depending on the school, the highest score or an average score may be used.\n\nThe purpose of the LSAT is to aid in predicting student success in law school. Researchers Balin, Fine, and Guinier performed research on the LSAT's ability to predict law school grades at the University of Pennsylvania. They found that the LSAT could explain about 14% of the variance in first year grades and about 15% of the variance in second year grades.\n\nThe LSAT was the result of a 1945 inquiry of Frank Bowles, a Columbia Law School admissions director, about a more satisfactory admissions test that could be used for admissions than the one that was in use in 1945. The goal was to find a test that would correlate with first year grades rather than bar passage rates. This led to an invitation of representatives from Harvard Law School and Yale Law School who ultimately accepted the invitation and began to draft the first administration of the LSAT exam. NYU, in correspondence by memorandum, was openly unconvinced \"about the usefulness of an aptitude test as a method of selecting law school students\", but was open to experimenting with the idea, as were other schools that were unconvinced. At a meeting on November 10, 1947, with representatives of law schools extending beyond the original Columbia, Harvard, and Yale representatives, the design of the LSAT was discussed. At this meeting the issue of a way to test students who came from excessively \"technical\" backgrounds that were deficient in the study of history and literature was discussed but ultimately rejected. The first administration of the LSAT followed and occurred in 1948.\n\nThe LSAC previously administered the LSAT four times per year: June, September/October, December and February. However, in June 2017, it was announced that the LSAC would be increasing the number of tests from four to six, and would instead be administering it in January, March, June, July, September, and November.\n\n129,925 LSATs were administered in the 2011–12 testing year (June 2011–February 2012), the largest percentage decline in LSATs administered in more than 10 years, and a drop of more than 16% from the previous year, when 155,050 LSATs were administered. The number of LSATs administered fell more than 25% over a two-year period (from the 2009–10 testing year to the 2011–12 testing year). The October 2012 administration reflected a 16.4% drop in volume from its 2011 counterpart. LSAT numbers continued to drop over the next two cycles but to a lesser degree, with 13.4% and 6.2% drops, respectively, for the 2012–13 and 2013–14 cycles. February 2014 showed the first increase in test takers (1.1%) since June 2010.\n\nLSAT—India is a test conducted to test an aspirant's reasoning and reading skills. LSAT—India is designed by the USA based Law School Admission Council (LSAC) and is conducted in India by Pearson VUE. On the basis of a student's score in LSAT—India 2016, he/she can secure admission in law programmes offered in more than 70 colleges in India.\n\nThe LSAT consists of five 35-minute multiple choice sections (one of which is an unscored experimental section) followed by an unscored writing sample section. Modern tests have 99–102 scored items in total. Several different test forms are used within an administration, each presenting the multiple choice sections in different orders, which is intended to make it difficult to cheat or to guess which is the experimental section.\n\nThe LSAT contains two logical reasoning (\"LR\") sections, commonly known as \"arguments\", designed to test the taker's ability to dissect and analyze arguments. LR sections each contain 24–26 questions. Each question begins with a short argument or set of facts. This is followed by a prompt asking the test taker to find the argument's assumption, to select an alternate conclusion to the argument, to identify errors or logical omissions in the argument, to find another argument with parallel reasoning, or to choose a statement that would weaken/strengthen the argument.\n\nThe LSAT contains one reading comprehension (\"RC\") section consisting of four passages of 400–500 words, and 5–8 questions relating to each passage. Complete sections contain 26–28 questions. Though no real rules govern the content of this section, the passages generally relate to law, arts and humanities, physical sciences, or social sciences. The questions usually ask the examinee to determine the author's main idea, find specific information in the passage, draw inferences from the text, and/or describe the structure of the passage.\n\nIn June 2007, one of the four passages was replaced with a \"comparative reading\" question. Comparative reading presents two shorter passages with differing perspectives on a topic. Parallels exist between the comparative reading question, the SAT's critical reading section, and the science section of the ACT.\n\nThe current LSAT contains one logic games (LG) section, officially referred to as the \"analytical reasoning\" section. One section contains four \"games\" falling into a number of categories including grouping, matching, and ordering of elements.\nEach LG section has 22–24 questions. Each game begins by outlining the premise (\"there are five people who might attend this afternoon's meeting\") and establishing a set of conditions governing the relationships among the subjects (\"if Amy is present, then Bob is not present; if Cathy is present, then Dan is present...\"). The examinee is then asked to draw conclusions from the statements (\"What is the maximum number of people who could be present?\"). What makes the games challenging is that the rules do not produce a \"single\" \"correct\" set of relationships among all elements of the game; rather, the examinee is tested on their ability to analyze the range of possibilities embedded in a set of rules. Individual questions often add rules or modify existing rules, requiring quick reorganization of known information. The LG section is commonly regarded by LSAT takers as the most difficult section of the test, at least at first, but it is also the section that can be most improved upon with practice.\n\nThe current test contains one experimental section which Law Services refers to as the \"Variable section\". It is used to test new questions for future exams. The performance of the examinee on this section is not reported as part of the final score. The examinee is not told which section of the exam is experimental, since doing so could skew the data. Previously, this section has always been one of the first three sections of any given test, but beginning with the administration of the October 2011 LSAT the experimental can be after the first three sections. LSAC makes no specific claim as to which section(s) it has appeared as in the past, and what section(s) it may appear as in the future.\n\nThe writing sample appears as the final section of the exam. The writing sample is presented in the form of a decision prompt, which provides the examinee with a problem and two criteria for making a decision. The examinee must then write an essay favoring one of the two options over the other. The decision prompt generally does not involve a controversial subject, but rather something mundane about which the examinee likely has no strong bias. While there is no \"right\" or \"wrong\" answer to the writing prompt, it is important that the examinee argues for his/her chosen position and also argues against the counter-position.\n\nLSAC does not score the writing sample. Instead, the essay is digitally imaged and sent to admission offices along with the LSAT score. Between the quality of the handwriting and of the digital image, some admissions officers regard the readability and usefulness of the writing sample to be marginal. Additionally, most schools require that applicants submit a \"personal statement\" of some kind. These factors sometimes result in admission boards disregarding the writing sample. However, only 6.8% of 157 schools surveyed by LSAC in 2006 indicated that they \"never\" use the writing sample when evaluating an application. In contrast, 9.9% of the schools reported that they \"always\" use the sample; 25.3% reported that they \"frequently\" use the sample; 32.7% responded \"occasionally\"; and 25.3% reported \"seldom\" using the sample.\n\nLSAC recommends advance preparation for the LSAT, due to the importance of the LSAT in law school admissions and because scores on the exam typically correspond to preparation time. The structure of the LSAT and the types of questions asked are generally consistent from year to year, which allows students to practice on question types that show up frequently in examinations.\n\nLSAC suggests, at a minimum, that students review official practice tests, called PrepTests, before test day to familiarize themselves with the types of questions that appear on the exams. LSAC offers one free test that can be downloaded from their website. For best results, LSAC suggests taking practice tests under actual time constraints and representative conditions in order to identify problem areas to focus on in further review.\n\nFor preparation purposes, only tests after June 1991 are considered modern, since the LSAT was significantly modified after this date. Each released exam is commonly referred to as a PrepTest. The June 1991 LSAT was numbered as PrepTest 1, and the December 2013 LSAT was PrepTest 71. Certain PrepTests are no longer published by LSAC (among them 1–6, 8, 17, 39, and 40), despite the fact that they were in print at one time. However, these tests have been made available through some of the test preparation companies, which have licensed them from LSAC to provide only to students in their courses. For a few years, some prep companies sold digital copies of LSAT PrepTests as PDFs, but LSAC revised its licensing policy in 2016, effectively banning the sale of LSAT PDFs to the general public.\n\nSome students taking the LSAT use a test preparation company. Students who do not use these courses often rely on material from LSAT preparation books, previously administered exams, and internet resources such as blogs, forums, and mobile apps.\n\nThe LSAT is a standardized test in that LSAC adjusts raw scores to fit an expected norm to overcome the likelihood that some administrations may be more difficult than others. Normalized scores are distributed on a scale with a low of 120 to a high of 180.\n\nThe LSAT system of scoring is predetermined and does not reflect test takers' percentile, unlike the SAT. The relationship between raw questions answered correctly (the \"raw score\") and scaled score is determined before the test is administered, through a process called equating. This means that the conversion standard is set beforehand, and the distribution of percentiles can vary during the scoring of any particular LSAT.\n\nAdjusted scores lie in a bell curve, tapering off at the extremes and concentrating near the median. For example, there might be a 3–5 question difference between a score of 175 and a score of 180, but the difference between a 155 from a 160 could be 9 or more questions--this is because the LSAT uses an ordinal grading system. Although the exact percentile of a given score will vary slightly between examinations, there tends to be little variance. The 50th percentile is typically a score of about 151; the 90th percentile is around 165 and the 99th is about 173. A 178 or better usually places the examinee in the 99.9th percentile.\n\nExaminees have the option of canceling their scores within six calendar days after the exam, before they get their scores. LSAC still reports to law schools that the student registered for and took the exam, but releases no score. Test takers typically receive their scores by e-mail between three and four weeks after the exam. There is a formal appeals process for examinee complaints, which has been used for proctor misconduct, peer misconduct, and occasionally for challenging a question. In very rare instances, specific questions have been omitted from final scoring.\n\nUniversity of North Texas economist Michael Nieswiadomy has conducted several studies (in 1998, 2006, and 2008) derived from LSAC data. In the most recent study, Nieswiadomy took the LSAC's categorization of test-takers in terms of their undergraduate college and university academic major study areas, and grouped a total of 162 major study areas into 29 categories, finding the averages of each major:\nThe LSAT is considered an important part of the law school admissions process, along with GPA. Many law schools are selective in their decisions to admit students, and the LSAT is one method of differentiating candidates.\n\nAdditionally the LSAC says the LSAT (like the SAT and ACT at the undergraduate level) serves as a standardized measure of one's ability to succeed during law school. Undergraduate grade points can vary significantly due to choices in course load as well as grade inflation, which may be pervasive at an applicant's undergraduate institution, but almost nonexistent at that of another. Some law schools, such as Georgetown University and the University Of Michigan have added programs designed to waive the LSAT for selected students who have maintained a 3.8 undergraduate GPA at their schools.\n\nLSAC says its own research supports the use of the LSAT as a major factor in admissions, saying the median validity for LSAT alone is .41 (2001) and .40 (2002) in regard to the first year of law school. The correlation varies from school to school, and LSAC says that test scores are more strongly correlated to first year law school performance than is undergraduate GPA. LSAC says that a more strongly correlated single-factor measure does not currently exist, that GPA is difficult to use because it is influenced by the school and the courses taken by the student, and that the LSAT can serve as a yardstick of student ability because it is statistically normed. However, the American Bar Association has waived the requirement for law schools to use the LSAT as an admission requirement in select cases. This may be due to the fact that an emphasis on LSAT scores is considered by some to be detrimental to the promotion of diversity among applicants. Others argue that it is an attempt by law schools to counteract declining enrollment.\n\nMost admission boards use an admission index, which is a formula that applies different weight to the LSAT and undergraduate GPA and adds the results. This composite statistic can have a stronger correlation to first year performance than either GPA or LSAT score alone, depending on the weighting used. The amount of weight assigned to LSAT score versus undergraduate GPA varies from school to school, as almost all law programs employ a different admission index formula.\n\nStudents may take the test as many times as they wish. Prior to 2017, only three attempts were allowed in a two-year period. Every score within five years is reported to law schools during the application process, as well a separate average of all scores on record. When faced with multiple scores from repeat test takers, users of standardized assessments typically employ three indices—most recent, highest, and average scores—in order to summarize an individual’s related performance.\n\nHow the law schools report the LSAT scores of their matriculants to the American Bar Association (ABA) has changed over the years. In June 2006, the ABA revised a rule that mandated law schools to report their matriculants' average score if more than one test was taken. The current ABA rule now requires law schools to report only the highest LSAT score for matriculants who took the test more than once. In response, many law schools began considering only the highest LSAT score during the admissions process, as the highest score is an important factor in law school rankings such as those published by US News and World Report. Many students rely heavily upon the rankings when deciding where to attend law school.\n\nStarting October 1973, those taking the LSAT were required to have fingerprints taken, after some examinees were found to have hired impostors to take the test on their behalf.\n\nA recent controversy surrounding the LSAT was the requirement that examinees submit to fingerprinting on the day of testing. Although LSAC does not store digital representations of fingerprints, there is a concern that fingerprints might be accessible by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. At the behest of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada, the LSAC implemented a change as of September 2007 which exempts Canadian test takers from the requirement to provide a fingerprint and instead requires that Canadian test-takers provide a photograph. Starting with the June 2011 admission of the LSAT, LSAC expanded this policy to include test-takers in the United States and Caribbean; LSAC therefore no longer requires fingerprints from any test takers, and instead requires that they submit a photograph.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "392191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=392191", "title": "Learned Hand", "text": "Learned Hand\n\nBillings Learned Hand ( ; January 27, 1872 – August 18, 1961) was an American judge and judicial philosopher. He served on the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York and later the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. Hand has been quoted more often by legal scholars and by the Supreme Court of the United States than any other lower-court judge.\n\nBorn and raised in Albany, New York, Hand majored in philosophy at Harvard College and graduated with honors from Harvard Law School. After a short career as a lawyer in Albany and New York City, he was appointed at the age of 37 as a Federal District Judge in Manhattan in 1909. The profession suited his detached and open-minded temperament, and his decisions soon won him a reputation for craftsmanship and authority. Between 1909 and 1914, under the influence of Herbert Croly's social theories, Hand supported New Nationalism. He ran unsuccessfully as the Progressive Party's candidate for Chief Judge of the New York Court of Appeals in 1913, but withdrew from active politics shortly afterwards. In 1924, President Calvin Coolidge promoted Hand to the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, which he went on to lead as the Senior Circuit Judge (later retitled Chief Judge) from 1939 until his semi-retirement in 1951. Scholars have recognized the Second Circuit under Hand as one of the finest appeals courts in the country's history. Friends and admirers often lobbied for Hand's promotion to the Supreme Court, but circumstances and his political past conspired against his appointment.\n\nHand possessed a gift for the English language, and his writings are admired as legal literature. He rose to fame outside the legal profession in 1944 during World War II after giving a short address in Central Park that struck a popular chord in its appeal for tolerance. During a period when a hysterical fear of subversion divided the nation, Hand was viewed as a liberal defender of civil liberties. A collection of Hand's papers and addresses, published in 1952 as \"The Spirit of Liberty\", sold well and won him new admirers. Even after he criticized the civil-rights activism of the 1950s Warren Court, Hand retained his popularity.\n\nHand is also remembered as a pioneer of modern approaches to statutory interpretation. His decisions in specialist fields, such as patents, torts, admiralty law, and antitrust law, set lasting standards for craftsmanship and clarity. On constitutional matters, he was both a political progressive and an advocate of judicial restraint. He believed in the protection of free speech and in bold legislation to address social and economic problems. He argued, however, that the United States Constitution does not empower courts to overrule the legislation of elected bodies, except in extreme circumstances. Instead, he advocated the \"combination of toleration and imagination that to me is the epitome of all good government\".\n\nBillings Learned Hand was born on January 27, 1872, in Albany, New York, the second and last child of Samuel Hand (1833–86) and Lydia Hand (née Learned). His mother's family traditionally used surnames as given names; and Hand was named for a maternal uncle and a grandfather, both named Billings Peck Learned. The Hands were a prominent family with a tradition of activism in the Democratic Party. Hand grew up in comfortable circumstances on Albany's main residential street. The family had an \"almost hereditary\" attachment to the legal profession and has been described as \"the most distinguished legal family in northern New York\".\n\nSamuel Hand was an appellate lawyer, who had risen rapidly through the ranks of an Albany-based law firm in the 1860s and, by age 32, was the firm's leading lawyer. In 1878, he became the leader of the appellate bar and argued cases before the New York Court of Appeals in \"greater number and importance than those argued by any other lawyer in New York during the same period\". Samuel Hand was a distant, intimidating figure to his son; Learned Hand later described his relations with his father as \"not really intimate\". Samuel Hand died from cancer when Learned was 14. Learned's mother thereafter promoted an idealized memory of her husband's professional success, intellectual abilities, and parental perfection, placing considerable pressure on her son.\n\nLydia Hand was an involved and protective mother, who had been influenced by a Calvinist aunt as a child; and she passed on a strong sense of duty and guilt to her only son. Learned Hand eventually came to understand the influences of his parents as formative. After his father's death, he looked to religion to help him cope, writing to his cousin Augustus Noble Hand: \"If you could imagine one half the comfort my religion has given to me in this terrible loss, you would see that Christ never forsakes those who cling to him.\" The depth of Hand's early religious convictions was in sharp contrast to his later agnosticism.\n\nHand was beset by anxieties and self-doubt throughout his life, including night terrors as a child. He later admitted he was \"very undecided, always have been—a very insecure person, very fearful; morbidly fearful\". Especially after his father's death, he grew up surrounded by doting women—his mother, his aunt, and his sister Lydia (Lily), eight years his elder. Hand struggled with his name during his childhood and adulthood, worried that \"Billings\" and \"Learned\" were not sufficiently masculine. While working as a lawyer in 1899, he ceased using the name \"Billings\"—calling it \"pompous\"—and ultimately took on the nickname \"B\".\n\nHand started at Harvard College in 1889, initially focusing on classical studies and mathematics as advised by his late father. At the end of his sophomore year, however, he changed direction. He embarked on courses in philosophy and economics, studying under the eminent and inspirational philosophers William James, Josiah Royce and George Santayana.\n\nAt first, Hand found Harvard a difficult social environment. He was not selected for any of the social clubs that dominated campus life, and he felt this exclusion keenly. He was equally unsuccessful with the Glee Club and the football team; for a time he rowed as a substitute for the rowing club. He later described himself as a \"serious boy\", a hard worker who did not smoke, drink, or consort with prostitutes. He mixed more in his sophomore and senior years. He became a member of the Hasty Pudding Club and appeared as a blond-wigged chorus girl in the 1892 student musical. He was also elected president of \"The Harvard Advocate\", a student literary magazine.\n\nHand's studious ways resulted in his election to Phi Beta Kappa, an elite society of scholarly students. He graduated with highest honors, was awarded a master's as well as a bachelor's degree, and was chosen by his classmates to deliver the Class Day oration at the 1893 commencement. Family tradition and expectation suggested that he would study law after graduation. For a while, he seriously considered post-graduate work in philosophy, but he received no encouragement from his family or philosophy professors. Doubting himself, he \"drifted\" toward law.\n\nHand's three years at Harvard Law School were intellectually and socially stimulating. In his second year, he moved into a boarding house with a group of fellow law students who were to become close friends. They studied hard and enjoyed discussing philosophy and literature and telling bawdy tales. Hand's learned reputation proved less of a hindrance at law school than it had as an undergraduate. He was elected to the Pow-Wow Club, in which law students practiced their skills in moot courts. He was also chosen as an editor of the \"Harvard Law Review\", although he resigned in 1894 because it took too much time from his studies.\n\nDuring the 1890s, Harvard Law School was pioneering the casebook method of teaching introduced by Dean Christopher Langdell. Apart from Langdell, Hand's professors included Samuel Williston, John Chipman Gray, and James Barr Ames. Hand preferred those teachers who valued common sense and fairness, and ventured beyond casebook study into the philosophy of law. His favorite professor was James Bradley Thayer, who taught him evidence in his second year and constitutional law in his third. A man of broad interests, Thayer became a major influence on Hand's jurisprudence. He emphasized the law's historical and human dimensions rather than its certainties and extremes. He stressed the need for courts to exercise judicial restraint in deciding social issues.\n\nHand graduated from Harvard Law School in 1896 at the age of 24. He returned to Albany to live with his mother and aunt, and started work for the law firm in which an uncle, Matthew Hale, was a partner. Hale's unexpected death a few months later obliged Hand to move to a new firm, but by 1899, he had become a partner. He had difficulty attracting his own clients, however, and found the work trivial and dull. Much of his time was spent researching and writing briefs, with few opportunities for the appellate work he preferred. His early courtroom appearances, when they came, were frequently difficult, sapping his fragile self-confidence. He began to fear that he lacked the ability to think on his feet in court.\n\nFor two years, Hand tried to succeed as a lawyer by force of will, giving all his time to the practice. By 1900, he was deeply dissatisfied with his progress. For intellectual stimulation, he increasingly looked outside his daily work. He wrote scholarly articles, taught part-time at Albany Law School, and joined a lawyers' discussion group in New York City. He also developed an interest in politics.\n\nHand came from a line of loyal Democrats, but in 1898 he voted for Republican Theodore Roosevelt as governor of New York. Though he deplored Roosevelt's role in the \"militant imperialism\" of the Spanish–American War, he approved of the \"amorphous mixture of socialism and laisser faire \" in Roosevelt's campaign speeches. Hand caused further family controversy by registering as a Republican for the presidential election of 1900. Life and work in Albany no longer fulfilled him; he began applying for jobs in New York City, despite family pressure against moving.\n\nAfter reaching the age of 30 without developing a serious interest in a woman, Hand thought he was destined for bachelorhood. But, during a 1901 summer holiday in the Québec resort of La Malbaie, he met 25-year-old Frances Fincke, a graduate of Bryn Mawr College. Though indecisive in most matters, he waited only a few weeks before proposing. The more cautious Fincke postponed her answer for almost a year, while Hand wrote to and occasionally saw her. He also began to look more seriously for work in New York City. The next summer, both Hand and Fincke returned to La Malbaie, and at the end of August 1902, they became engaged and kissed for the first time. They married on December 6, 1902, shortly after Hand had accepted a post with the Manhattan law firm of Zabriskie, Burrill & Murray. The couple had three daughters: Mary Deshon (born 1905), Frances (born 1907), and Constance (born 1909). Hand proved an anxious husband and father. He corresponded regularly with his doctor brother-in-law about initial difficulties in conceiving and about his children's illnesses. He survived pneumonia in February 1905, taking months to recover.\n\nThe family at first spent summers in Mount Kisco, with Hand commuting on the weekends. After 1910, they rented summer homes in Cornish, New Hampshire, a writers' and artists' colony with a stimulating social scene. The Hands bought a house there in 1919, which they called \"Low Court\". As Cornish was a nine-hour train journey from New York, the couple were separated for long periods. Hand could join the family only for vacations. The Hands became friends of the noted artist Maxfield Parrish, who lived in nearby Plainfield. The Misses Hand posed for some of his paintings.\n\nThe Hands also became close friends of Cornish resident Louis Dow, a Dartmouth College professor. Frances Hand spent increasing amounts of time with Dow while her husband was in New York, and tension crept into the marriage. Despite speculation, however, there is no evidence that she and Dow were lovers. Hand regretted Frances' long absences and urged her to spend more time with him, but he maintained an enduring friendship with Dow. He blamed himself for a lack of insight into his wife's needs in the early years of the marriage, confessing his \"blindness and insensibility to what you wanted and to your right to your own ways when they differed from mine\". Fearing he might otherwise lose her altogether, Hand came to accept Frances' desire to spend time in the country with another man.\n\nWhile staying in Cornish in 1908, Hand began a close friendship with the political commentator and philosopher Herbert Croly. At the time, Croly was writing his influential book \"The Promise of American Life\", in which he advocated a program of democratic and egalitarian reform under a national government with increased powers. When the book was published in November 1909, Hand sent copies to friends and acquaintances, including former president Theodore Roosevelt. Croly's ideas had a powerful effect on Roosevelt's politics, influencing his advocacy of New Nationalism and the development of Progressivism.\n\nHand continued to be disappointed in his progress at work. A move to the firm of Gould & Wilkie in January 1904 brought neither the challenges nor the financial rewards for which he had hoped. \"I was never any good as a lawyer,\" he later admitted. \"I didn't have any success, any at all.\" In 1907, deciding that at the age of 35 success as a Wall Street lawyer was out of reach, he lobbied for a potential new federal judgeship in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, the federal court headquartered in Manhattan. He became involved briefly in local Republican politics to strengthen his political base. In the event, Congress did not create the new judgeship in 1907; but, when the post was finally created in 1909, Hand renewed his candidacy. With the help of the influential Charles C. Burlingham, a senior New York lawyer and close friend, he gained the backing of Attorney General George W. Wickersham, who urged President William Howard Taft to appoint Hand. One of the youngest federal judges ever appointed, Hand took his judicial oath at age 37 in April 1909.\n\nHand served as a federal judge in the Southern District of New York from 1909 to 1924. He dealt with fields of common law, including torts, contracts, and copyright, and admiralty law. His initial unfamiliarity with some of these specialties, along with his limited courtroom experience, caused him anxiety at first. Most of Hand's early cases concerned bankruptcy issues, which he found tiresome, and patent law, which fascinated him.\n\nHand made some important decisions in the area of free speech. A frequently cited 1913 decision is \"United States v. Kennerley\", an obscenity case concerning Daniel Carson Goodman's \"Hagar Revelly\", a social-hygiene novel about the \"wiles of vice,\" which had caught the attention of the New York Society for the Suppression of Vice. Hand allowed the case to go forward on the basis of the Hicklin test, which stemmed back to a seminal English decision of 1868, \"Regina v. Hicklin\". In his opinion, Hand recommended updating the law, arguing that the obscenity rule should not simply protect the most susceptible readers but should reflect community standards:\n\nIt seems hardly likely that we are even to-day so lukewarm in our interest in letters or serious discussion as to be content to reduce our treatment of sex to the standard of a child's library in the supposed interest of a salacious few, or that shame will for long prevent us from adequate portrayal of some of the most serious and beautiful sides of human nature.\n\nFollowing his appointment as a judge, Hand became politically active in the cause of New Nationalism. With reservations, in 1911 he supported Theodore Roosevelt's return to national politics. He approved of the former president's plans to legislate on behalf of the underprivileged and to control corporations, as well as of his campaign against the abuse of judicial power. Hand sought to influence Roosevelt's views on these subjects, both in person and in print, and wrote articles for Roosevelt's magazine, \"The Outlook\". His hopes of swaying Roosevelt were often dashed. Roosevelt's poor grasp of legal issues particularly exasperated Hand.\n\nDespite overwhelming support for Roosevelt in the primaries and polls, the Republicans renominated the incumbent President Taft. A furious Roosevelt bolted from the party to form the Progressive Party, nicknamed the \"Bull Moose\" movement. Most Republican progressives followed him, including Hand. The splitting of the Republican vote, however, harmed both Roosevelt's and Taft's chances of winning the November 1912 presidential election. As Hand expected, Roosevelt lost to the Democratic Party's Woodrow Wilson, though he polled more votes than Taft.\n\nHand took the defeat in his stride. He considered the election merely as a first step in a reform campaign for \"real national democracy\". Though he had limited his public involvement in the election campaign, he now took part in planning a party structure. He also accepted the Progressive nomination for chief judge of New York Court of Appeals, then an elective position, in September 1913. He refused to campaign, however, and later admitted that \"the thought of harassing the electorate was more than I could bear\". His vow of silence affected his showing, and he received only 13% of the votes. Hand came to regret his candidacy: \"I ought to have lain off, as I now view it; I was a judge and a judge has no business to mess into such things.\"\n\nBy 1916, Hand realized that the Progressive Party had no future, as the liberal policies of the Democratic government were making much of its program redundant. Roosevelt's decision not to stand in the 1916 presidential election dealt the party its death blow. Hand had already turned to an alternative political outlet in Herbert Croly's \"The New Republic\", a liberal magazine which he had helped launch in 1914. Hand wrote a series of unsigned articles for the magazine on issues of social reform and judicial power; his only signed article was \"The Hope of the Minimum Wage\", published in November 1916, which called for laws to protect the underprivileged. Often attending staff dinners and meetings, Hand became a close friend of the gifted young editor Walter Lippmann. The outbreak of war in Europe in 1914 had coincided with the founding of the magazine, whose pages often debated the events in Europe. \"The New Republic\" adopted a cautiously sympathetic stance towards the Allies, which Hand supported wholeheartedly. After the United States entered the war in 1917, Hand considered leaving the bench to assist the war effort. Several possible war-related positions were suggested to him. Nothing came of them, aside from his chairing a committee on intellectual property law that suggested treaty amendments for the Paris Peace Conference.\n\nHand made his most memorable decision of the war in 1917 in \"Masses Publishing Co. v. Patten\". After the country joined the war, Congress had enacted an Espionage Act that made it a federal crime to hinder the war effort. The first test of the new law came two weeks later when the postmaster of New York City refused to deliver the August issue of \"The Masses\", a self-described \"revolutionary journal\". The edition contained drawings, cartoons, and articles criticizing the government's decision to go to war.\n\nThe publishing company sought an injunction to prevent the ban, and the case came before Judge Hand. In July 1917, he ruled that the journal should not be barred from distribution through the mail. Though \"The Masses\" supported those who refused to serve in the forces, its text did not, in Hand's view, tell readers that they \"must\" violate the law. Hand argued that suspect material should be judged on what he called an \"incitement test\": only if its language directly urged readers to violate the law was it seditious—otherwise freedom of speech should be protected. This focus on the words themselves, rather than on their effect, was novel and daring; but Hand's decision was promptly stayed, and later overturned on appeal. He always maintained that his ruling had been correct. Between 1918 and 1919, he attempted to convince Supreme Court Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes, a man he greatly admired, of his argument. His efforts at first appeared fruitless, but Holmes' dissenting opinion in \"Abrams v. United States\" in November 1919 urged greater protection of political speech. Scholars have credited the critiques of Hand, Ernst Freund, Louis Brandeis, and Zechariah Chafee for the change in Holmes's views. In the long-term, Hand's decision proved a landmark in the history of free speech in the country. In \"Brandenburg v. Ohio\" (1969), the Supreme Court announced a standard for protecting free speech that in effect recognized his \"Masses\" opinion as law.\n\nHand had known that ruling against the government might harm his prospects of promotion. By the time of the case, he was already the most senior judge of his district. The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit often summoned him to sit with that court to hear appeals, a task he found stimulating. In 1917, he lobbied for promotion to the Second Circuit, but the unpopularity of his \"Masses\" decision and his reputation as a liberal stood against him. He was passed over in favor of Martin T. Manton.\n\nIn the final months of the war, Hand increasingly supported President Woodrow Wilson's post-war foreign policy objectives. He believed the United States should endorse the League of Nations and the Treaty of Versailles, despite their flaws. This position estranged him from Croly and others at \"The New Republic\", who vehemently rejected both. Alienated from his old circle on the magazine and by the reactionary and isolationist mood of the country, Hand found himself politically homeless.\n\nThe next Second Circuit vacancy arose in 1921, but with the conservative Warren G. Harding administration in power, Hand did not put himself forward. Nonetheless Hand's reputation was such that by 1923, Supreme Court Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr. wanted him on the Supreme Court, and in 1924 Harding's successor, Calvin Coolidge, appointed Hand to the Second Circuit. It was a sign of Hand's increased stature that figures such as Coolidge and Chief Justice William Howard Taft now endorsed him. Coolidge sought to add new blood to a senior judiciary that was seen as corrupt and inefficient. In 1926 and 1927, the Second Circuit was strengthened by the appointments of Thomas Walter Swan and Hand's cousin Augustus Noble Hand.\n\nAfter the demise of the Progressive Party, Hand had withdrawn from party politics. He committed himself to public impartiality, despite his strong views on political issues. He remained, however, a strong supporter of freedom of speech, and any sign of the \"merry sport of Red-baiting\" troubled him. In 1920, for example, he wrote in support of New York Governor Al Smith's veto of the anti-sedition Lusk Bills. The New York Assembly had approved these bills in a move to bar five elected Socialist Party legislators from taking their seats. In 1922, Hand privately objected to a proposed limit on the number of Jewish students admitted to Harvard College. \"If we are to have in this country racial divisions like those in Europe,\" he wrote, \"let us close up shop now\".\n\nIn public, Hand discussed issues of democracy, free speech, and toleration only in general terms. This discretion, plus a series of impressive speaking engagements, won him the respect of legal scholars and journalists, and by 1930 he was viewed as a serious candidate for a seat on the Supreme Court. His friend Felix Frankfurter, then a Harvard Law School professor, was among those lobbying hard for Hand's appointment. President Herbert Hoover chose to bypass him, possibly for political reasons, and appointed Charles Evans Hughes, who had previously served on the Court for six years before resigning to become the Republican candidate for President in 1916, as Chief Justice. With Hughes and another New Yorker, Harlan Fiske Stone, on the Court, the promotion of a third New Yorker was then seen as impossible.\n\nHand had voted for Hoover in 1928, and he did so again in 1932; but in 1936, he voted for the Democrats and Franklin D. Roosevelt, as a reaction to the economic and social turmoil that followed the Wall Street Crash of 1929. With the Great Depression setting in, Hand favored a policy of interventionist central government. He came to accept Frankfurter's view that redistribution of wealth was essential for economic recovery. Hoover resisted this approach, favoring individualism and free enterprise. Roosevelt, on the other hand, promised the voters a New Deal. They elected him on a platform of strong executive leadership and radical economic reform. Hand voted for Roosevelt again in 1940 and 1944, but he remained vigilant on the constitutional dangers of big government. Like others, including Walter Lippmann, he sensed the dictatorial potential of New Deal policies. He had no hesitation in condemning Roosevelt's 1937 bill to expand the Supreme Court and pack it with New Dealers.\n\nHand was increasingly called upon to judge cases arising from the flood of New Deal legislation. The line between central government authority and local legislation particularly tested his powers of judgment. In 1935, the case of \"United States v. Schechter\" came before the Second Circuit. Hand and his two colleagues had to judge whether a New York poultry firm had contravened New Deal legislation on unfair trade practices. They ruled that the National Industrial Recovery Act did not apply to the Schechter Poultry Corporation, which traded solely within the state. \"The line is no doubt in the end arbitrary,\" Hand wrote in a memorandum, \"but we have got to draw it, because without it Congress can take over all the government.\" The Supreme Court later affirmed Hand's decision.\n\nHand became an acknowledged expert on New Deal statutes. He relished the challenge of interpreting such legislation, calling it \"an act of creative imagination\". In a 1933 broadcast, he explained the balancing act required of a judge in interpreting statutes:\n\nOn the one hand he must not enforce whatever he thinks best; he must leave that to the common will expressed by the government. On the other, he must try as best he can to put into concrete form what that will is, not by slavishly following the words, but by trying honestly to say what was the underlying purpose expressed.\n\nWhen war broke out in Europe in 1939, Learned Hand adopted an anti-isolationist stance. He rarely spoke out publicly, not only because of his position but because he thought bellicosity unseemly in an old man. In February 1939, he became his court's senior circuit leader (in effect, chief judge, although the title was not created until 1948). In this post, Hand succeeded Martin Manton, who had resigned after corruption allegations that later led to Manton's criminal conviction for bribery. Not an admirer of Manton, Hand nonetheless testified at his trial that he had never noticed any corrupt behavior in his predecessor. Having sat in two cases in which Manton accepted bribes, Hand worried for years afterward that he should have detected his colleague's corruption.\n\nHand still regarded his main job as judging. As circuit leader, he sought to free himself and his judges from too great an administrative burden. He concentrated on maintaining good relations with his fellow judges and on cleansing the court of patronage appointments. Despite the Manton case and constant friction between two of the court's judges, Charles Edward Clark and Jerome Frank, the Second Circuit under Hand earned a reputation as one of the best appeal courts in the country's history.\n\nIn 1942, Hand's friends once again lobbied for him to fill a Supreme Court vacancy, but Roosevelt did not appoint him. The president gave age as the reason, but philosophical differences with Hand may also have played a part. Another explanation lies in one of Justice William O. Douglas's autobiographies, where Douglas states that, despite Roosevelt's belief that Hand was the best person for the job, Roosevelt had been offended by the pressure Justice Felix Frankfurter placed on the president during a vigorous letter-writing campaign on Hand's behalf. D.C. Circuit Judge Wiley Blount Rutledge, whom Roosevelt appointed, died in 1949, while Hand lived until 1961. In a February 1944 correspondence with Frankfurter, Hand expressed a low opinion of Roosevelt's new appointees, referring to Justice Hugo Black, Justice Douglas, and Justice Frank Murphy as \"Hillbilly Hugo, Good Old Bill, and Jesus lover of my Soul\". Deeply disappointed at the time, Hand later regretted his ambition: \"It was the importance, the power, the trappings of the God damn thing that really drew me on.\"\n\nHand was relieved when the United States entered the war in December 1941. He felt free to participate in organizations and initiatives connected with the war effort, and was particularly committed to programs in support of Greece and Russia. He backed Roosevelt for the 1944 election, partly because he feared a return to isolationism and the prolonging of the wartime erosion of civil liberties. In 1943, the House Un-American Activities Committee or \"Dies Committee\", for example, had aroused his fears with an investigation into \"subversive activities\" by government workers. Hand's contemporary at Harvard College, Robert Morss Lovett, was one of those accused, and Hand spoke out on his behalf. As the end of the war approached, there was much talk of international peace organizations and courts to prevent future conflict, but Hand was skeptical. He also condemned the Nuremberg war-crimes trials, which he saw as motivated by vengeance; he did not believe that \"aggressive war\" could be construed as a crime. \"The difference between vengeance and justice,\" he wrote later, \"is that justice must apply to all.\"\n\nHand had never been well known to the general public, but a short speech he made in 1944 won him fame and a national reputation for learnedness that lasted until the end of his life. On May 21, 1944, he addressed almost one and a half million people in Central Park, New York, at the annual \"I Am an American Day\" event, where newly naturalized citizens swore the Pledge of Allegiance. He stated that all Americans were immigrants who had come to America in search of liberty. Liberty, he said, was not located in America's constitutions, laws, and courts, but in the hearts of the people. In what would become the speech's most quoted passage, Hand asked:\n\nWhat then is the spirit of liberty? I cannot define it; I can only tell you my own faith. The spirit of liberty is the spirit which is not too sure that it is right; the spirit of liberty is the spirit which seeks to understand the minds of other men and women; the spirit of liberty is the spirit which weighs their interests alongside its own without bias; the spirit of liberty remembers that not even a sparrow falls to earth unheeded; the spirit of liberty is the spirit of Him who, near two thousand years ago, taught mankind that lesson it has never learned, but has never quite forgotten; that there may be a kingdom where the least shall be heard and considered side by side with the greatest.\n\nExtracts of the speech appeared in \"The New Yorker\" on June 10. Several weeks later, \"The New York Times\" printed the whole text. \"Life\" magazine and \"Reader's Digest\" followed soon after. Hand's message that liberty is safeguarded by everyday Americans struck a popular chord, and he suddenly found himself a folk hero. Though he enjoyed the acclaim, he thought it unmerited. His biographer Gerald Gunther, noting the paradox of the agnostic Hand's use of religious overtones, suggests that the most challenging aspect of the speech was that the spirit of liberty must entertain doubt.\n\nLearned Hand's 75th birthday in 1947 was much celebrated in the press and in legal circles. C. C. Burlingham, Hand's former sponsor, for example, called him \"now unquestionably the first among American judges\". Hand remained modest in the face of such acclaim. He continued to work as before, combining his role as presiding judge of the Second Circuit with his engagement in political issues. In 1947, he voiced his opposition to a proposed \"group libel\" statute that would have banned defamation of racial or minority groups. He argued that such a law would imply that intolerance could base itself upon evidence. The effect of the proposed prosecutions, he said, would be \"rather to exacerbate than to assuage the feelings which lie behind the defamation of groups\".\n\nIn the postwar period, Hand shared the dismay of his compatriots about Stalinism and the onset of the Cold War. At the same time, he was sensitive to the domestic problems created by what he saw as a hysterical fear of international Communism. Already in 1947, he noted that \"the frantic witch hunters are given free rein to set up a sort of Inquisition, detecting heresy wherever non-conformity appears\". Hand was distressed by the crusade against domestic subversion that became part of American public life after the war. He particularly despised the anti-Communist campaign of Senator Joseph McCarthy that began in 1950 and which became known as McCarthyism. Though Hand expressed his horror of McCarthyism privately, he hesitated to do so publicly because cases arising from it were likely to come before his court.\n\nDuring this period, Hand took part in three notable cases that posed a particular challenge to his impartiality on Cold War issues: \"United States v. Coplon\", \"United States v. Dennis\", and \"United States v. Remington\".\n\nDepartment of Justice worker Judith Coplon had been sentenced to 15 years in prison for stealing and attempting to pass on defense information. In 1950, her appeal came before a Second Circuit panel that included Learned Hand. It rested on her claim that her rights under the Fourth Amendment had been infringed by a warrantless search, and that details of illegal wiretaps had not been fully disclosed at her trial. Hand made it clear that Coplon was guilty of the charges. However, he rejected the trial judge's conclusion that a warrantless arrest had been justified. He ruled therefore that papers seized during the arrest had been inadmissible as evidence. The trial judge's failure to disclose all the wiretap records, Hand concluded, made a reversal of Coplon's conviction necessary. In his written opinion, Hand stated that \"[F]ew weapons in the arsenal of freedom are more useful than the power to compel a government to disclose the evidence on which it seeks to forfeit the liberty of its citizens.\" Hand received hate mail after this decision.\n\nBy contrast, in the 1950 case \"Dennis v. United States\", Hand affirmed the convictions under the 1940 Smith Act of eleven leaders of the Communist Party of the United States for subversion. He ruled that calls for the violent overthrow of the American government posed enough of a \"probable danger\" to justify the invasion of free speech. After the case, he was attacked from the opposite political direction for appearing to side with McCarthyism.\n\nIn 1953, Hand wrote a scathing dissent from a Second Circuit decision to affirm the perjury conviction of William Remington, a government economist accused of Communist sympathies and activities. In 1951, the same panel had overturned Remington's previous conviction for perjury, but in the appeal of the later case Hand was outvoted two to one. The prosecution produced stronger evidence against Remington this time, much of it obtained from his wife. Sentenced to three years imprisonment, Remington was murdered in November 1954 by three fellow inmates, who beat him over the head with a brick wrapped in a sock. According to Hand's biographer Gunther, \"The image of Remington being bludgeoned to death in prison haunted Hand for the rest of his life.\"\n\nOnly after stepping down as a full-time judge in 1951 did Hand join the public debate on McCarthyism. Shortly after announcing his semi-retirement, he gave an unscripted speech that was published in \"The Washington Post\", an anti-McCarthy newspaper.\n\n[M]y friends, will you not agree that any society which begins to be doubtful of itself; in which one man looks at another and says: \"He may be a traitor,\" in which that spirit has disappeared which says: \"I will not accept that, I will not believe that—I will demand proof. I will not say of my brother that he may be a traitor,\" but I will say, \"Produce what you have. I will judge it fairly, and if he is, he shall pay the penalties; but I will not take it on rumor. I will not take it on hearsay. I will remember that what has brought us up from savagery is a loyalty to truth, and truth cannot emerge unless it is subjected to the utmost scrutiny\"—will you not agree that a society which has lost sight of that, cannot survive?\n\nHand followed this up with an address to the Board of Regents of the University of the State of New York the next year. Once again, his attack on McCarthyism won approval from many liberals. Asked to send a copy of his views to McCarthy, Hand replied that he had Richard Nixon in mind as well. Despite his concerns about Nixon as vice president, Hand voted for Dwight Eisenhower in the 1952 election, later crediting Eisenhower with bringing about McCarthy's downfall in 1954.\n\nIn 1951, Hand retired from \"regular active service\" as a federal judge. He assumed senior status, a form of semi-retirement, and continued to sit on the bench, with a considerable workload. The following year, he published \"The Spirit of Liberty\", a collection of papers and addresses that neither he nor publisher Alfred A. Knopf expected to make a profit. In fact, the book earned admiring reviews, sold well, and made Hand more widely known. A 1958 paperback edition sold even better, though Hand always refused royalties from material he never intended for publication.\n\nLouis Dow had died in 1944, with Frances Hand at his side. The Hands' marriage then entered its final, happiest phase, in which they rediscovered their first love. Former law clerks have provided intimate details of Hand's character during the last decade of his life. Legal philosopher Ronald Dworkin recalls that Hand, scrupulous about public economy, used to turn out the lights in all the offices at the end of each day. For the same reason, he refused Dworkin the customary month's paid vacation at the end of his service. Shortly afterward, to Dworkin's surprise, Hand wrote him a personal check for an extra month's pay as a wedding present. Hand was known for his explosive temper. Gunther remembers him throwing a paperweight in his direction which narrowly missed. Hand had a habit of turning his seat 180° on lawyers whose arguments annoyed him, and he could be bitingly sarcastic. In a typical memo, he wrote, \"This is the most miserable of cases, but we must dispose of it as though it had been presented by actual lawyers.\" Despite such outbursts, Hand was deeply insecure throughout his life, as he fully recognized. In his 80s, he still fretted about his rejection by the elite social clubs at Harvard College. He was convinced that his wife had rescued him from a life as a \"melancholic, a failure [because] I should have thought myself so, and probably single and hopelessly hypochondriac\".\n\nLearned Hand remained in good physical and mental condition for most of the last decade of his life. In 1958, he gave the Holmes Lectures at Harvard Law School. These lectures proved to be Hand's last major critique of judicial activism, a position he had first taken up in 1908 with his attack on the \"Lochner\" ruling. They included a controversial attack on the Warren Court's 1954 decision in \"Brown v. Board of Education\", which in Hand's opinion had exceeded its powers by overruling Jim Crow segregation laws. His views were widely criticized as reactionary and unfortunate, with most deploring the fact that they might encourage segregationists who opposed libertarian judicial rulings. Published as \"The Bill of Rights\", the lectures nevertheless became a national bestseller.\n\nBy 1958, Hand was suffering from intense pain in his back and faced difficulty in walking. \"I can just manage, with not infrequent pauses, to walk about a third of a mile,\" he wrote to Felix Frankfurter. \"My feet get very numb and my back painful. The truth is that 86 is too long.\" Soon, he was obliged to use crutches, but he remained mentally sharp and continued to hear cases. In 1960, he worked briefly on President Dwight Eisenhower's \"Commission on National Goals\", but he resigned because \"it involved more work than in the present state of my health I care to add to the judicial work that I am still trying to do\".\n\nBy June 1961, Hand was in a wheelchair. He joked that he felt idle because he had taken part in no more than about 25 cases that year, and that he would start another job if he could find one. The following month, he suffered a heart attack at Cornish. He was taken to St Luke's Hospital in New York City, where he died peacefully on August 18, 1961. \"The New York Times\" ran a front-page obituary. \"The Times\" of London wrote: \"There are many who will feel that with the death of Learned Hand the golden age of the American judiciary has come to an end.\"\n\nHe was buried next to his wife in the family plot at Albany Rural Cemetery near Menands, New York.\n\nHis grandson was actor Richard Jordan.\n\nHand's study of philosophy at Harvard left a lasting imprint on his thought. As a student, he lost his faith in God, and from that point on he became a skeptic. Hand's view of the world has been identified as relativistic; in the words of scholar Kathryn Griffith, \"[i]t was his devotion to a concept of relative values that prompted him to question opinions of the Supreme Court which appeared to place one value absolutely above the others, whether the value was that of individual freedom or equality or the protection of young people from obscene literature.\" Hand instead sought objective standards in constitutional law, most famously in obscenity and civil liberties cases. He saw the Constitution and the law as compromises to resolve conflicting interests, possessing no moral force of their own. This denial that any divine or natural rights are embodied in the Constitution led Hand to a positivistic view of the Bill of Rights. In this approach, provisions of the Constitution, such as freedom of press, freedom of speech, and equal protection, should be interpreted through their wording and in the light of historical analysis rather than as \"guides on concrete occasions\". For Hand, moral values were a product of their times and a matter of taste.\n\nHand's civil instincts were at odds with the duty of a judge to stay aloof from politics. As a judge he respected even bad laws; as a member of society he felt free to question the decisions behind legislation. In his opinion, members of a democratic society should be involved in legislative decision-making. He therefore regarded toleration as a prerequisite of civil liberty. In practice, this even meant that those who wish to promote ideas repugnant to the majority should be free to do so, within broad limits.\n\nHand's skepticism extended to his political philosophy: he once described himself as \"a conservative among liberals, and a liberal among conservatives\". As early as 1898, he rejected his family's Jeffersonian Democratic tradition. His thoughts on liberty, collected in \"The Spirit of Liberty\" (1952), began by recalling the political philosophies of Thomas Jefferson and Alexander Hamilton. Jefferson believed that each individual has a right to freedom, and that government, though necessary, threatens that freedom. In contrast, Hamilton argued that freedom depends on government: too much freedom leads to anarchy and the tyranny of the mob. Hand, who believed, following Thomas Hobbes, that the rule of law is the only alternative to the rule of brutality, leaned towards Hamilton. Since the freedom granted to the American pioneers was no longer feasible, he accepted that individual liberty should be moderated by society's norms. He nevertheless saw the liberty to create and to choose as vital to peoples' humanity and entitled to legal protection. He assumed the goal of human beings to be the \"good life\", defined as each individual chooses.\n\nBetween 1910 and 1916, Hand tried to translate his political philosophy into political action. Having read Croly's \"The Promise of American Life\" and its anti-Jeffersonian plea for government intervention in economic and social issues, he joined the Progressive Party. However, he discovered that party politicking was incompatible not only with his role as a judge but with his philosophical objectivity. The pragmatic philosophy Hand had imbibed from William James at Harvard required each issue to be individually judged on its merits, without partiality. In contrast, political action required partisanship and a choice between values. After 1916, Hand preferred to retreat from party politics into a detached skepticism. His belief in central planning resurfaced during the 1930s in his growing approval of Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal, as he once again—though this time as an observer—endorsed a program of government intervention. Hand was also an interventionist on foreign policy, supporting U.S. involvement in both world wars, and disdained isolationism.\n\nHand has been called one of the United States' most significant judicial philosophers. A leading advocate of judicial restraint, he took seriously Alexander Hamilton's formulation that \"the judiciary ... may truly be said to have neither \"force\" nor \"will\", but merely judgement.\" Any judicial ruling that had the effect of legislating from the bench troubled Hand. In 1908, in his article \"Due Process of Law and the Eight-Hour Day\", he attacked the 1905 Supreme Court ruling in \"Lochner v. New York\", which had struck down a law prohibiting bakery staff from working more than ten hours a day. The Supreme Court went on to strike down a series of similar worker-protective laws on the grounds that they restricted freedom of contract. Hand regarded this principle as undemocratic. \"For the state to intervene\", he argued, \"to make more just and equal the relative strategic advantages of the two parties to the contract, of whom one is under the pressure of absolute want, while the other is not, is as proper a legislative function as that it should neutralize the relative advantages arising from fraudulent cunning or from superior force.\"\n\nThe issue concerned Hand again during the New Deal period, when the Supreme Court repeatedly overturned or blocked Franklin D. Roosevelt's legislation. As an instinctive democrat, Hand was appalled that an elected government should have its laws struck down in this way. He viewed it as a judicial \"usurpation\" for the Supreme Court to assume the role of a third chamber in these cases. As far as he was concerned, the Constitution already provided a full set of checks and balances on legislation. Nevertheless, Hand did not hesitate to condemn Roosevelt's frustrated attempt to pack the Supreme Court in 1937, which led commentators to warn of totalitarianism. The answer, for Hand, lay in the separation of powers: courts should be independent and act on the legislation of elected governments.\n\nHand's democratic respect for legislation meant that he hardly ever struck down a law. Whenever his decisions went against the government, he based them only on the boundaries of law in particular cases. He adhered to the doctrine of presumptive validity, which assumes that legislators know what they are doing when they pass a law. Even when a law was uncongenial to him, or when it seemed contradictory, Hand set himself to interpret the legislative intent. Sometimes, however, he was obliged to draw the line between federal and state laws, as in \"United States v. Schechter Poultry\". In this important case, he ruled that a New Deal law on working conditions did not apply to a New York poultry firm that conducted its business only within the state. Hand wrote in his opinion: \"It is always a serious thing to declare any act of Congress unconstitutional, and especially in a case where it is part of a comprehensive plan for the rehabilitation of the nation as a whole. With the wisdom of that plan we have nothing whatever to do ...\"\nHand also occasionally went against the government in the area of free speech. He believed that courts should protect the right to free speech even against the majority will. In Hand's view, judges must remain detached at times when public opinion is hostile to minorities and governments issue laws to repress those minorities. Hand was the first judge to rule on a case arising from the Espionage Act of 1917, which sought to silence opposition to the war effort. In his decision on \"Masses Publishing Co. v. Patten\", he defined his position on political incitement:\n\nDetestation of existing policies is easily transformed into forcible resistance of the authority which puts them in execution, and it would be folly to disregard the causal relation between the two. Yet to assimilate agitation, legitimate as such, with direct incitement to violent resistance, is to disregard the tolerance of all methods of political agitation which in normal times is a safeguard for free government. The distinction is not scholastic subterfuge, but a hard-bought acquisition in the fight for freedom.\n\nIn the case of \"United States v. Dennis\" in 1950, Hand made a ruling that appeared to contradict his \"Masses\" decision. By then, a series of precedents had intervened, often based on Oliver Wendell Holmes's \"clear and present danger\" test, leaving him less room for maneuver. Hand felt he had \"no choice\" but to agree that threats against the government by a group of Communists were illegal under the repressive Smith Act of 1940. In order to do so, he interpreted the \"clear and present danger\" in a new way. \"In each case,\" he wrote, \"[courts] must ask whether the gravity of the 'evil', discounted by its improbability, justifies such invasion of free speech as is necessary to avoid the danger.\" This formula allowed more scope for curbing free speech in cases where, as the government believed with Communism, the danger was grave, whether it was immediate or not. Critics and disappointed liberals accused Hand of placing his concern for judicial restraint ahead of freedom of speech. Hand confided to a friend that, if it had been up to him, he would \"never have prosecuted those birds\".\n\nIn the opinion of Kathryn Griffith, \"The importance of Learned Hand's philosophy in terms of practical application to the courts lies generally in his view of the pragmatic origin of all law, but most specifically in his unique interpretation of the Bill of Rights.\" Hand proposed that the Bill of Rights was not law at all but a set of \"admonitory\" principles to ensure the fair exercise of constitutional powers. He therefore opposed the use of its \"due process of law\" clauses as a pretext for national intervention in state legislation. He even advocated the removal of those clauses from the Constitution. In Hand's analysis, \"due process\" is no more than a stock phrase to cover a long tradition of common law procedure. He contended that the term had inflated in scope beyond the meaning intended in the Bill of Rights. The result was the misuse of due process to invade rights that the Constitution was designed to protect. For Hand, a law passed by an elected body should be presumed to meet the test of due process. A court that decides otherwise and strikes down such a law is acting undemocratically. Hand maintained this stance even when the Supreme Court struck down anti-liberal laws that he detested. His reasoning has never been widely accepted. Critics of his position included his colleague on the Second Circuit, Jerome Frank, who wrote: \"[I]t seems to me that here, most uncharacteristically, Judge Hand indulges in a judgement far too sweeping, one which rests on a too-sharp either-or, all or nothing, dichotomy. ... Obviously the courts cannot do the whole job. But just as obviously, they can sometimes help to arrest evil popular trends at their inception.\"\n\nRichard Posner, an influential appellate judge reviewing a biography of Hand, asserts that Hand \"displayed a positive antipathy toward constitutional law. To exaggerate only a little, he didn't think judges should have anything to do with it.\" Posner suggests that although Hand is remembered today as one of the three greatest judges in American history, his status as a truly \"great judge\" was not based on his \"slight\" contributions to First Amendment jurisprudence or other fields of constitutional law, but rather on his decisions in other areas such as antitrust, intellectual property, and tort law.\n\nLearned Hand wrote approximately four thousand judicial opinions during his career. Admired for their clarity and analytic precision, they have been quoted more often in Supreme Court opinions and by legal scholars than those of any other lower-court judge. Both Hand's dissent in \"United States v. Kennerley\" and his ruling in \"United States v. Levine\" have often been cited in obscenity cases. Hand's view that literary works should be judged as a whole and in relation to their intended readership is now accepted in American law. His use of historical data to gauge legislative intent has become a widespread practice. According to Archibald Cox: \"The opinions of Judge Hand have had significant influence both in breaking down the restrictions imposed by the dry literalism of conservative tradition and in showing how to use with sympathetic understanding the information afforded by the legislative and administrative processes.\" Hand's decision in the 1917 \"Masses\" case influenced Zechariah Chafee's widely read book, \"Freedom of Speech\" (1920). In his dedication, Chafee wrote, \"[Hand] during the turmoil of war courageously maintained the traditions of English-speaking freedom and gave it new clearness and strength for the wiser years to come.\"\n\nLearned Hand played a key role in the interpretation of new federal crime laws in the period following the passing of the U.S. Criminal Code in 1909. In a series of judicial opinions and speeches, he opposed excessive concern for criminal defendants, and wrote \"Our dangers do not lie in too little tenderness to the accused. Our procedure has always been haunted by the ghost of the innocent man convicted. ... What we need to fear is the archaic formalism and watery sentiment that obstructs, delays and defeats the prosecution of crime.\" He insisted that harmless trial errors should not automatically lead to a reversal on appeal. Hand balanced these views with important decisions to protect a defendant's constitutional rights concerning unreasonable searches, forced confessions and cumulative sentences.\n\nHis opinions have also proved lasting in fields of commercial law. Law students studying torts often encounter Hand's 1947 decision for \"United States v. Carroll Towing Co.\", which gave a formula for determining liability in cases of negligence. Hand's interpretations of complex Internal Revenue Codes, which he called \"a thicket of verbiage\", have been used as guides in the gray area between individual and corporate taxes. In an opinion sometimes seen as condoning tax avoidance, Hand stated in 1947 that \"there is nothing sinister in so arranging one's affairs as to keep taxes as low as possible\". He was referring to reporting of individual income through corporate tax forms for legitimate business reasons. In tax decisions, as in all statutory cases, Hand studied the intent of the original legislation. His opinions became a valuable guide to tax administrators. Hand's landmark decision in \"United States v. Aluminum Company of America\" in 1945 influenced the development of antitrust law. His decisions in patent, copyright, and admiralty cases have contributed to the development of law in those fields.\n\nHand was also a founding member of the American Law Institute, where he helped develop the influential Restatements of the Law serving as models for refining and improving state codes in various fields. One American Law Institute recommendation was to decriminalize sexual conduct such as adultery and homosexuality, for which reason the July–August 1955 issue of the Mattachine Society Review, the magazine of the country's first nationwide homosexual organization, published a salute to Judge Hand featuring his photograph on the cover.\n\nAfter Hand's lectures and publications became widely known, his influence reached courts throughout the country. On the occasion of his 75th birthday on January 27, 1947, \"The Washington Post\" reported: \"He has won recognition as a judges' judge. His opinions command respect wherever our law extends, not because of his standing in the judicial hierarchy, but because of the clarity of thought and the cogency of reasoning that shape them.\"\n\nTo the wider public, who knew little of his legal work, Hand was by then a folk hero. Social scientist Marvin Schick has pointed out that this mythic status is a paradox. Because Hand never served on the Supreme Court, the majority of his cases were routine and his judgments rooted in precedent. On Hand's retirement in 1951, Felix Frankfurter predicted that his \"actual decisions will be all deader than the Dodo before long, as at least many of them are already\". Working for a lower court, however, saved Hand from the taint of political influence that often hung over the Supreme Court. Hand's eloquence as a writer played a larger part in the spread of his influence than the substance of his decisions; and Schick believes that the Hand myth brushes over contradictions in his legal philosophy. Hand's reputation as a libertarian obscures the fact that he was cautious as a judge. Though a liberal, he argued for judicial restraint in interpreting the Constitution, and regarded the advancement of civil liberties as a task for the legislature, not the courts. In his 1958 Holmes Lectures, for example, he voiced doubts about the constitutionality of the Warren Court's civil rights rulings. This philosophy of judicial restraint failed to influence the decisions of the Supreme Court during Hand's lifetime and afterwards.\n\nFinally, in an essay called \"Origin of a Hero\" discussing his novel the \"Rector of Justin\", author Louis Auchincloss says the main character was not based on a headmaster; certainly not as was often speculated Groton's famous Endicott Peabody. \"If you want to disguise a real life character,\" Auchincloss advised fellow novelists, \"just change his profession.\" His actual model for the Rector of Justin was \"the greatest man it has been my good luck to know\" – Judge Learned Hand.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16078334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16078334", "title": "Legal Services Act 2007", "text": "Legal Services Act 2007\n\nThe Legal Services Act 2007 is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom that seeks to liberalise and regulate the market for legal services in England and Wales, to encourage more competition and to provide a new route for consumer complaints. It also makes provisions about the Legal Profession and Legal Aid (Scotland) Act 2007.\n\nSection 1 of the Act defines eight regulatory objectives:\n\nThe professional principles are:\n\nSections 2 to 7 and Schedule 1 create the Legal Services Board with a duty to promote the regulatory objectives. David Edmonds was appointed the first chair of the Board on 23 April 2008 and nine members were appointed on 17 July. The members took up post on 1 September 2008 and the Board became fully operational on 1 January 2010. The Board is to have a Consumer Panel to represent consumers (ss. 8-11). no date has been fixed for the coming into force of the provisions about the Consumer Panel.\n\nSection 12 and Schedule 2 define six reserved legal activities:\n\nThis list can be amended by an Order in Council of the Chancellor (ss. 24-26).\n\nSection 12 then goes on to define, for the purposes of the Act, a legal activity as either a reserved legal activity or as the provision of legal advice, assistance or representation in connection with the application of the law or with any form of resolution of legal disputes. Legal activity does not include acting as a mediator or arbitrator.\n\nOnly an authorised person or an exempt person can carry out a reserved legal activity (s. 14). It is a crime to carry out a reserved activity otherwise though it is a defence that the person \"did not know, and could not reasonably have been expected to know\" that they were committing an offence. It is also an offence to pretend to be authorised (s. 17) An offender can be sentenced on summary conviction to up to six months' imprisonment and a fine of up to £5,000. If convicted on indictment in the Crown Court an offender can be sentenced to up to two years' imprisonment and an unlimited fine. An unauthorised person who purports to exercise a right of audience also commits a contempt of court for which he can be punished.\n\nThese provisions came into force on 1 January 2010.\n\nAuthorised persons are either (s. 18):\n\nRelevant approved regulators are (s. 20/ Sch. 4, Pt. 1):\n\nThe Legal Services Board does not have the power to recommend to the Lord Chancellor that he approve further approved regulators (s. 20/ Sch. 4, Pt. 2). The regulatory arrangements of all the approved regulators defined in Sch. 4, Pt. 1 remain in place at the coming into force of the Act but thereafter, all changes to internal professional regulatory arrangements must be approved by the Board (s. 20/ Sch. 3, Pt. 3).\n\n, no date is fixed for the coming into force of these provisions but, as a transitional arrangement, authorised person is to be interpreted as a person who will not be authorised when these sections to come into force.\n\nApproved regulators have a duty to promote the regulatory objectives (s. 28). If they fail to do so, or if they fail in some other way to comply with the Act, the Legal Services Board can:\n\nThe Board has a duty to regulate practising fees (s. 51), resolve regulatory conflicts (ss. 52-54), and work with the Office of Fair Trading, the Competition Commission and the Lord Chancellor on competition issues (ss. 57-61).\n\n, no date is fixed for the coming into force of these provisions.\n\nBefore the coming into force of the Act, lawyers in England and Wales could only practice as:\n\nThe Act allows alternative business structures (ABSs) with non-lawyers in professional, management or ownership roles. The Act creates a system whereby approved regulators can authorise licensed bodies to offer reserved legal services (ss.71-111).\n\nApproved regulators must operate a complaints system as part of their internal regulatory arrangements (s. 112). Section 114 of the Act creates an Office for Legal Complaints which the Section 115 of the Legal Services Act stipulates must administer an ombudsman scheme (ss. 114-158 /Sch. 15). The offices of Legal Services Complaints Commissioner (OLSCC) and Legal Services Ombudsman (OLSO), which were introduced in the Courts and Legal Services Act 1990 are abolished under the Act (s. 159). The Office of the Legal Services Complaints Commissioner (OLSCC) closed on 31 March 2010. The Office of the Legal Services Ombudsman closed in 2011.\n\nFor the purposes of complaints only, claims management services are regarded as reserved legal activities and the Claims Management Services Regulator as an approved regulator (s. 161).\n\nSection 114 came into force on 7 March 2008.\nThe Office for Legal Complaints (OLC) launched on Friday 24 July 2009. On 3 February 2009, the Legal Services Board announced the OLC Board members. On 29 September 2009 it was announced that the Ombudsman would be based in Birmingham, England. That December, it was confirmed that the name Legal Ombudsman had been chosen for the new scheme. On Wednesday 6 October 2010 the Legal Ombudsman began receiving complaints.\n\nThe Act extends legal professional privilege to authorised persons other than barristers and solicitors (s. 190). This section came into force in 2010.\n\nWhere a litigant is represented in civil proceedings on a \"pro bono\" basis, it would be contrary to the indemnity principle to award costs to that person. Section 194 allows the court to order a payment to a charity \"in lieu\". These provisions came into force progressively from 30 June to 1 October 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "8717072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8717072", "title": "List of former heads of regimes who were sentenced to death", "text": "List of former heads of regimes who were sentenced to death\n\nThis is an incomplete list of former heads of regimes, like Presidents, Prime Ministers, Monarchs, who were sentenced to death by the succeeding regime following their removal from power.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1545622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1545622", "title": "Military Collegium of the Supreme Court of the Soviet Union", "text": "Military Collegium of the Supreme Court of the Soviet Union\n\nThe Military Collegium of the Supreme Court of the Soviet Union (Russian: Военная коллегия Верховного суда СССР) was created in 1924 by the Supreme Court of the Soviet Union as a court for the higher military and political personnel of the Red Army and Fleet. In addition it was an immediate supervisor of military tribunals and the supreme authority of military appeals.\n\nDuring 1926–1948 the Chairman of the Collegium was Vasili Ulrikh.\n\nThe role of the Military Collegium drastically changed after June 1934, when it was assigned the duty to consider cases that fell under Article 58, counter-revolutionary activity.\n\nDuring the Great Purge of 1937–1938 the Military Collegium tried relatively prominent figures, usually based on the lists approved personally by Joseph Stalin, the majority of Article 58 cases having been processed extrajudicially by NKVD Troikas. In particular, the Military Collegium conducted the major Soviet show trials.\n\nThe Collegium was also involved in subsequent trials of Polish General Leopold Okulicki, the last commander of the Polish Home Army, and Jan Jankowski, Polish government delegate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56314304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56314304", "title": "Nassau Interim Finance Authority", "text": "Nassau Interim Finance Authority\n\nThe Nassau Interim Finance Authority is a New York State public-benefit corporation which was created to assist Nassau County, a suburban county adjacent to the city of New York on Long Island, emerge from a funding crisis that began in the late 1990s. As of the start of 2018, NIFA, as it is known, was still in place and still supervising Nassau’s finances under a control period that resumed in 2011 after a three-year hiatus.\n\nNIFA is guided by a seven-member board appointed by the Governor of New York, with one member recommended by the Senate Majority Leader, one by the Assembly Speaker, and one by the State Comptroller. Its management team is headed by Evan Cohen, who serves as Executive Director. In 2017, it had operating expenses of $1.84 million, an outstanding debt of $653.98 million, and a staffing level of 5 people.\n\nThough the U.S. federal government was in surplus at the end of the Clinton administration, the Republican Party-led Nassau County government faced possible insolvency by 2000, though the signs of the crisis began in 1999 and led that year to the Democratic Party taking control of the county legislature, in a previously solid Republican county. Among the many reasons cited for the situation the county found itself in were excessive union contracts to attract county government worker support for the Republican Party; a refusal by the Republican county executive Thomas Gulotta to raise taxes; and an increase in borrowing to close the gap, particularly for the purpose of paying a increasing number of property assessment appeals coming out of an assessment system that relied on outdated data.\n\nGulotta, a Republican, had proposed a tax increase in the early 1990s, and was almost defeated by North Hempstead Supervisor Benjamin Zwirn in 1993. Gulotta resisted further tax increases for the rest of his time in office, and was re-elected in 1997. Two years later, the county’s finances began to implode. In June 2000, Republican Governor George Pataki signed the legislation creating NIFA. As part of the introduction of NIFA, the state made payments to Nassau County of $105 million over five years.\n\nGulotta did not stand for re-election in 2001. When Nassau County’s Conservative Party endorsed money market specialist Bruce Bent as its candidate, the Republicans endorsed Bent as well. Bent was defeated by then Glen Cove Mayor Thomas Suozzi. The county’s financial situation had led the outgoing Gulotta administration to implement a 9.1% property tax increase in the 2002 budget, and Suozzi’s first budget had a property tax increase of almost 20%. His final budget before he was defeated for re-election in 2009, by County Legislator Ed Mangano, had a 3.9% increase. There were no other county property tax increases in Suozzi’s two terms. Suozzi dealt with a NIFA control board for much of his eight years in office, though the control period ended in 2008. But NIFA remained in existence even after the end of the control period and continued to monitor county finances.\nAfter Mangano was sworn in as county executive in 2010 following his victory over Suozzi, he and the county legislature eliminated a home energy tax. That act reduced tax to the revenues county budget, and about a year after Mangano was sworn in, NIFA re-instituted a control period. A lawsuit by Nassau County contesting the legitimacy of the control board was unsuccessful, and NIFA articulated the limits of its duties, and the budgetary reasons for a control board, in a statement. Prior to that court decision, the Republican leader in the county legislature, Peter Schmitt, appeared to liken the bipartisan members of NIFA to a Mafia family.\n\nThe Mangano-NIFA relationship, with a control board in place, was marked by almost annual disputes over the budgets that Mangano submitted and the county legislature approved. A 2013 agreement between the police officers’ union and the county was criticized by NIFA. A multi-year plan submitted by the Mangano administration in 2015 was rejected by NIFA. NIFA implemented a wage freeze in 2011, though it was lifted over several years. NIFA rejected the county’s 2016 budget, and implemented a quarterly review. In December 2017, NIFA ordered specific spending cuts after finding additional flaws in Mangano's budget.\n\nAs 2018 began, Mangano was out of office, having chosen not to seek-re-election to a third term in 2017 following his indictment on 2016 on federal corruption charges. The two contenders for his position, Republican Jack Martins, a former State Senator and unsuccessful U.S. House of Representatives candidate a year earlier against Suozzi, and Democrat Laura Curran, a former newspaper reporter for the \"New York Daily News\" and a county legislator, both said during the campaign that steps must be taken to bring Nassau out from NIFA oversight. Curran won the election, and NIFA issued a deadline to offer any significant changes to the Mangano 2018 budget, the one with the NIFA-ordered cuts. Her selection of Mark Page as her chief budget officer was praised by NIFA chairman Adam Barsky, and Page had worked as a consultant to NIFA so was expected to understand its workings.\n\nIn April 2018, Curran presented her first budget to NIFA and made a rare public appearance before the members. At that meeting, the \"conundrum\" that Curran faced, with a Republican legislative majority rejecting her plan to hike fees to help close the budget gap, was discussed. \n\nIn one of the first significant actions under the Curran administration, NIFA in July 2018 overwhelmingly rejected a Curran administration request to borrow funds to pay for an earlier court judgement that went against the county for the wrongful conviction of two men. At the meeting where the vote was held, a report was discussed that talked about the country's \"growing risks\" in its budget. \n\nIn October 2018, NIFA warned that Nassau County's deficit for 2019 could be $59 million, though that was the lowest estimate since 2014. In a pointed critique, NIFA also noted the continuing situation where almost 20 years after NIFA was created, Nassau had still not taken the steps to end its oversight. \"“Other municipalities with fewer resources, such as Buffalo, Washington, D.C., and Detroit, have moved beyond the tight control of their oversight monitors and it seems incongruous that Nassau County, one of the wealthiest counties in the Country, is unable to do the same,” NIFA wrote in its report on the deficit estimate. \n\nIn November 2018, NIFA approved the first budget of the Curran administration. The approval was unanimous. The budget did include $100 million in borrowing solely to pay back tax grievances. However, NIFA chairman Adam Barsky said \"We always have concerns, but I think the concern over this budget is less severe, less concerning than prior budgets.\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "46432890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46432890", "title": "Ophelia Paquet", "text": "Ophelia Paquet\n\nOphelia Paquet was a Tillamook Indian woman involved in a famous Oregon miscegenation court case in year 1919. The case's issue was whether Ophelia Paquet could inherit her deceased Caucasian husband's estate in the U.S. state of Oregon. Her case exemplifies the role that marriage has in the transmission of property and how race can affect gender complications.\n\nThe U.S. state of Oregon maintains that \"it shall not be lawful within this state for any white person, male or female, to intermarry with any negro, Chinese, or any person having one fourth or more negro, Chinese, or Kanaka blood, or any person having more than one half Indian blood.\" The law defined interracial marriage as illicit. Also with the preconceived notion that non-Whites were hypersexual. The miscegenation laws of United States generally tended to prohibit interracial marriage rather than interracial sex. Marriage brought economic and social benefits to couples. Miscegenation laws were designed to keep people of color from rising up in socio-economic status.\n\nThe case was decided in Oregon Supreme Court over the inheritance of estate of a deceased Caucasian man Fred Paquet to his Tillamook Indian wife Ophelia Paquet. Fred Paquet and Ophelia Paquet were married for more than thirty years. The issue was whether could the Court recognize Fred and Ophelia's marriage. The Court concluded that the marriage violated Oregon's miscegenation law. The estate got ruled to be transferred to Fred Paquet's relaive John Paquet. The judges were somewhat sympathetic for Ophelia because of how faithful she was to Fred for over thirty years. There were arguments that Ophelia should get half of the estate. In the end, Ophelia should have gotten a settlement on the basis that she clears her claims of ownership of the estate. It was not clear whether Ophelia agreed upon and received the settlement.\n\nOphelia Paquet's case brought attention to connection of race and transmission of property. Miscegenation laws kept property within racial bounds by only validating marriages between white men and white women and invalidating marriages between white men and non-white women. Interracial marriages were not recognized by miscegenation laws. Race can be seen as property within the context of miscegenation laws. To keep property in the hands of Whites and prevent non-Whites from gaining property.\n\nThe case also raised attention of how dependent women were on men economically. Women were perceived to be dependent on men domestically during the early twentieth century. Ophelia Paquet's case dispelled that. Her husband Fred was away from the estate a lot and her wage work provided a lot of the income for the estate.\n\n"}
{"id": "31897862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31897862", "title": "PlaceMakers", "text": "PlaceMakers\n\nPlaceMakers is the trading name of Fletcher Distribution Limited, the retail trading arm of Fletcher Building in New Zealand. PlaceMakers also manufactures wall frames, roof trusses and structural components at various frame and truss operations. PlaceMakers origins began in August 1981 as part of Fletcher Timber Limited's retailing operations within the Manufacturing and Merchandising Sector of Fletcher Challenge Limited.\n\nThe beginnings of PlaceMakers start in 1954, when Fletcher Sales & Services Limited was established to sell builders supplies and timber produced by the rest of the Fletcher Holdings Group companies. First established in Penrose, it was intended that the company would expand to have branches strategically sited throughout New Zealand.\n\nLater in the same year the Fletcher Holdings Limited subsidiaries involved in timber production or processing were merged to form Fletcher Timber Company Limited, and the Fletcher Sales & Services Limited name changed to Fletcher Hardware. J & A Wilkinson, supplier of hardware and building materials, Dunedin was acquired.\n\nIn late 1960 Lumbermart opened. Located in Penrose the building materials supplier was the first of its type in New Zealand and operated for 30 years without major alterations. In early 1961 Fletcher Timber was operating retail outlets at Penrose (Lumbermart), Hamilton (Claudelands), Upper Hutt and Porirua.\n\nIn 1964 the company of RC Horsley was acquired. In the North Island the names of all outlets were changed to Fletcher Merchants, while in the South Island they were absorbed into the operations of Butler Bros Limited, another Fletcher Holdings Group company. In 1967 all the merchandising operations were merged into Fletcher Merchants Limited.\n\nIn 1970 Fletcher Merchants Limited became a division of Fletcher Timber Company Limited after a Fletcher Holdings Limited re-structure. In 1972 timber retail outlets were operated at Lumbermart, Hamilton, Tauranga, Ngongotaha, Carterton and Tawa.\n\nIn February 1980 the Manawatu based company, Felvins Suppliers and Distributors Limited, was acquired. The company had five branches in Manawatu, Horowhenua and Wellington. Manawatu Timber Mills and Fielding Sash & Door Limited were predecessor companies of Felvins Suppliers and Distributors Limited.\n\nWith the formation of Fletcher Challenge Limited in 1981, Fletcher Merchants Limited became part of the Manufacturing & Hardware Sector, along with Felvins Suppliers and Distributors Limited, Ellis & Burnand, and Mount Timber & Hardware Limited, HC Kitchen Limited and the Steward Sawmilling Company.\n\nIn 1981 the trading name of PlaceMakers first came into use. Fletcher Timber Limited changed its name to Fletcher Merchants Limited and in August 1981 the first PlaceMakers superstore is opened in Manukau City.\n\nThe Fletcher Challenge Group acquired Scott Commercial in 1983 which became a part of Fletcher Merchants Limited.\n\nBy 1984 PlaceMakers had 55 branches throughout New Zealand.\n\nIn 1986 E Daniells Limited was acquired. In that same year, a Home Improvement Centre opens at Lincoln Road, Henderson, Auckland.\n\nThe Winstone name goes back as far as 1864 and over time grew a reputation supplying an extensive range of materials to the building and construction markets. Winstone Trading Limited was formed in 1984 and over five years grew to provide national coverage by purchasing a number of smaller businesses including Odlins and Dudding Brothers.\n\nThe merger of Fletcher Merchants Limited and Winstone Trading Limited in 1988 produced the largest and only nationwide building materials chain in New Zealand.\n\nIn 1990 PlaceMakers moved towards a scheme of joint venture ownership between Fletcher Distribution Limited and managers of individual operations, while continuing to operate within the PlaceMakers umbrella. Under the joint venture programme selected branch managers were able to become owner-operators. At the end of 1991, eight stores in the PlaceMakers distribution network were operating as joint ventures.\n\nBy 1993 PlaceMakers had 29 out of their 53 stores operating under the joint venture system.\n\nFollowing the 6.3-magnitude earthquake that hit the Canterbury region on 22 February 2011, PlaceMakers donated twenty cabins to help with the recovery efforts.\n\nThe ‘Rapid Response Community Shelter’ cabins were presented to Mayor Bob Parker by PlaceMakers on 4 March 2011. The cost of the cabins was met by PlaceMakers and a number of suppliers. Most of the cabins were constructed at PlaceMakers’ Christchurch Frame & Truss plant keeping local staff employed.\n\nThree PlaceMakers stores were affected directly by the earthquake. Liquefaction affected the Antigua Street and Cranford Street branches.\n\nIn 2012 PlaceMakers became community sponsors for all 5 of the New Zealand Super Rugby teams, as well as sponsoring the Sky TV Super Rugby coverage. They also sponsor Hayden Paddon, rally driver.\n\nThe PlaceMakers Blue Streak was launched on 1 September 2012 to support the fundraising efforts of the Prostate Cancer Foundation’s Blue September campaign.\nThe partnership between PlaceMakers and the Prostate Cancer Foundation’s Blue September is now in its sixth year. While the Blue Streak is entertaining, his role is also to discreetly raise awareness of a sensitive issue. Prostate cancer is the most common cancer among males and accounts for approximately 15% of all male cancer-related deaths, while one in 10 NZ men will get prostate cancer in their lifetime. The Blue Streak is intended to grab the attention of males and their families, and inform them of the underlying health message, which is for males to have regular checks for prostate cancer. PlaceMakers have raised over $1,000,000 for the Prostate Cancer Foundation to date.\n\nThe PlaceMakers Blue Streak is noted for not speaking and \"streaking\" at opportune moments.\n\nPlaceMakers was previously a title sponsor of the New Zealand round of the Australian V8 Supercars championship at Pukekohe Park Raceway from 2003 to 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "12011851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12011851", "title": "Police Act", "text": "Police Act\n\nPolice Act is a stock short title used for legislation in India, Malaysia and the United Kingdom relating to police forces and officers.\n\n\n\n\nThe Police Acts 1839 to 1893 was the collective title of the following Acts:\n\nThe Town Police Clauses Acts 1847 and 1889 is the collective title of the Town Police Clauses Act 1847 (10 & 11 Vict c 89) and the Town Police Clauses Act 1889 (52 & 53 Vict c 14).\n\nScotland\n\n\nThe Police (Scotland) Acts 1857 to 1890 was the collective title of the following Acts:\n\nNorthern Ireland\n\n"}
{"id": "3968551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3968551", "title": "Postal censorship", "text": "Postal censorship\n\nPostal censorship is the inspection or examination of mail, most often by governments. It can include opening, reading and total or selective obliteration of letters and their contents, as well as covers, postcards, parcels and other postal packets. Postal censorship takes place primarily but not exclusively during wartime (even though the nation concerned may not be at war, e.g. Ireland during 1939–1945) and periods of unrest, and occasionally at other times, such as periods of civil disorder or of a state of emergency. Both covert and overt postal censorship have occurred.\n\nHistorically, postal censorship is an ancient practice; it is usually linked to espionage and intelligence gathering. Both civilian mail and military mail may be subject to censorship, and often different organisations perform censorship of these types of mail. In 20th-century wars the objectives of postal censorship encompassed economic warfare, security and intelligence.\n\nThe study of postal censorship is a philatelic topic of postal history.\n\nMilitary mail is not always censored by opening or reading the mail, but this is much more likely during wartime and military campaigns. The military postal service is usually separate from civilian mail and is usually totally controlled by the military. However, both civilian and military mail can be of interest to military intelligence, which has different requirements from civilian intelligence gathering. During wartime, mail from the front is often opened and offending parts blanked or cut out, and civilian mail may be subject to much the same treatment.\n\nPrisoner-of-war and internee mail is also subject to postal censorship, which is permitted under Articles 70 and 71 of the Third Geneva Convention (1929–1949). It is frequently subjected to both military and civil postal censorship because it passes through both postal systems.\n\nUntil recent years, the monopoly for carrying civilian mails has usually been vested in governments and this has facilitated their control of postal censorship. The type of information obtained from civilian mail is different from that likely to be found in military mail.\n\nThroughout modern history various governments, usually during times of war, would inspect mail coming into or leaving the country so as to prevent an enemy from corresponding with unfriendly entities within that country. There exist also many examples of prisoner of war mail from these countries which was also inspected or censored. Censored mail can usually be identified by various postmarks, dates, postage stamps and other markings found on the front and reverse side of the cover (envelope). These covers often have an adhesive seal, usually bearing special ID markings, which were applied to reclose and seal the envelope after inspection.\n\nDuring the years leading up to the American Revolution, the British monarchy in the American colonies manipulated the mail and newspapers sent between the various colonies in an effort to prevent them from being informed and from organizing with each other. Often mail would be outright destroyed.\n\nDuring the American Civil War both the Union and Confederate governments enacted postal censorship. The number of Union and Confederate soldiers in prisoner of war camps would reach an astonishing one and a half million men. The prison population at the Andersonville Confederate POW camp alone reached 45,000 men by the war's end. Consequently, there was much mail sent to and from soldiers held in POW installations. Mail going to or leaving prison camps in the North and South was inspected both before and after delivery. Mail crossing enemy lines was only allowed at two specific locations. \n\nIn Britain, the General Post Office was formed in 1657, and soon evolved a \"Secret Office\" for the purpose of intercepting, reading and deciphering coded correspondence from abroad. The existence of the Secret Office was made public in 1742 when it was found that in the preceding 10 years the sum of £45,675 (a huge amount at that time) had been secretly transferred from the Treasury to the General Post Office to fund the censorship activities. In 1782 responsibility for administering the Secret Office was transferred to the Foreign Secretary and it was finally abolished by Lord Palmerston in 1847.\n\nDuring the Second Boer War a well planned censorship was implemented by the British that left them well experienced when The Great War started less than two decades later. Initially offices were in Pretoria and Durban and later throughout much of the Cape Colony as well a POW censorship with camps in Bloemfontein, St Helena, Ceylon, India and Bermuda.\n\nThe British Post Office Act 1908 allowed censorship upon issue of warrants by a secretary of state in both Great Britain and in the Channel Islands.\n\nDuring the Great War (WWI) postal censorship occurred in Great Britain, France, Germany and other various countries involved with that war.\n\nFollowing the end of World War I there were some places where postal censorship was practiced. During 1919 it was operating in Austria, Belgium, Canada, German Weimar Republic and the Soviet Union as well as other territories. The Irish Civil War saw mail raided by the IRA that was marked as censored and sometimes opened in the newly independent state. The National Army also opened mail and censorship of irregulars' mail in prisons took place.\n\nOther conflicts during which censorship existed included the Third Anglo-Afghan War, Chaco War, were the Italian occupation of Ethiopia (1935–36) and especially during the Spanish Civil War of 1936-1939.\n\nDuring World War II both the Allies and Axis instituted postal censorship of civil mail. The largest organisations were those of the United States, though the United Kingdom employed about 10,000 censor staff while Ireland, a small neutral country, only employed about 160 censors.\n\nBoth blacklists and whitelists were employed to observe suspicious mail or listed those whose mail was exempt from censorship.\n\nBritish censorship was primarily based in the Littlewoods football pools building in Liverpool with nearly 20 other censor stations around the country. Additionally the British censored colonial and dominion mail at censor stations in the following places:\n\nIn the United States censorship was under the control of the Office of Censorship whose staff count rose to 14,462 by February 1943 in the censor stations they opened in New York, Miami, New Orleans, San Antonio, Laredo, Brownsville, El Paso, Nogales, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Seattle, Chicago, San Juan, Charlotte Amalie, Balboa, Cristóbal, David, Panama and Honolulu.\n\nThe United States blacklist, known as U.S. Censorship Watch List, contained 16,117 names.\n\nNeutral countries such as Ireland, Portugal and Switzerland also censored mail even though they were not directly involved in the conflict.\n\nFollowing the end of hostilities in Europe, Germany was occupied by the Allied Powers in zones of control. Censorship of mail that had been impounded during the Allies advances, when postal services were suspended, took place in each zone though by far the least commonly seen mail is from the French Zone. When most the backlog had been cleared regular mail was controlled as well as in occupied Austria. Soviet zone mail is considered scarce.\n\nIn the German Democratic Republic, the Stasi, established in 1950, were responsible for the control of incoming and outgoing mail; at their height of operations, their postal monitoring department controlled about 90,000 pieces of mail daily.\n\nSeveral small conflicts saw periods of postal censorship, such as the 1948 Palestine war, Korean War (1950–1953), Poland (1980s), or even the 44-day Costa Rican Civil War in 1948.\n\nNotes\nBooks\n\nPapers & reports\n\n"}
{"id": "13384260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13384260", "title": "Red Star Yeast", "text": "Red Star Yeast\n\nRed Star Yeast Company, LLC is a joint-venture of Lesaffre, and Archer Daniels Midland Company.\n\nRed Star operates two plants in the United States- a plant in Headland, AL, and a new plant built in 2006 in Cedar Rapids, IA. Lesaffre Yeast Corporation (prior to the joint-venture) used to operate plants in Milwaukee, WI, Baltimore, MD, and Oakland, CA, but those facilities have been closed since 2006. Their corporate office is located in Milwaukee, WI.\n\nRed Star Yeast and Products was the former division of Sensient Technologies (formerly Universal Foods), which distributed the Red Star brand. Red Star Yeast was then sold to French-based Lesaffre group in 2001. In 2004, Lesaffre and Archer Daniels Midland Company (ADM) created the joint-venture that the company operates under today.\n\nAll Red Star Yeast products are certified Kosher except for Passover.\n"}
{"id": "11095739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11095739", "title": "Richard Frethorne", "text": "Richard Frethorne\n\nRichard Frethorne was an indentured servant at Martin's Hundred, Virginia in 1622-1623. He is known as the author of letters detailing his miserable condition in Virginia.\n\nFrethorne was from the parish of St. Dunstan-in-the-East in London, where his family received poor relief. In 1622 he was indentured by the parish and sent to Virginia as a servant, arriving in December on the ship \"Abigail.\" Textual analysis of his letters suggests he may have been around twelve years old at the time. Frethorne became one of the indentured servants of William Harwood, the “governor” or leader of Martin’s Hundred. In March and April following his arrival, he wrote several letters to his family and associates back in England, listing the miseries of his life in Virginia and begging them to pay off his indenture or, failing that, to send some food which he could then sell. Richard Frethorne died sometime before February 16, 1624 (1623 Old Style), when his name (in this case spelled “Frethram”) appears on a list of the dead at Martin’s Hundred.\n\nOn March 5, 1623 (1622 Old Style) Frethorne wrote to Mr. Bateman, one of the vestrymen of his home parish, asking for his help. He lists various hardships suffered in Virginia, including lack of sufficient food, lack of adequate clothing, and settlements ravaged by recent native attack. He asks Bateman to free him (by paying off the indenture) or to send food, and refers to the biblical story of Joseph and to the books of Jeremiah and Ecclesiasticus.\n\nAt the end of March and beginning of April Frethorne wrote to his parents in three installments dated March 20, April 2, and April 3. In these missives he goes into greater and more emotional detail about his lack of food and clothing and about illness in the colony and the threat of native attack. He describes others in his situation as expressing the opinion that being limbless beggars in England would be preferable to their current circumstances.\n\nFrethorne's letter has been cited as evidence that the reports in England that the colonies in Virginia that were being run as a model of justice and equity were incorrect.\n\n"}
{"id": "16747403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16747403", "title": "Rutgers Computer and Technology Law Journal", "text": "Rutgers Computer and Technology Law Journal\n\nThe Rutgers Computer and Technology Law Journal, founded in 1969 at Rutgers School of Law–Newark, is the world's oldest and longest running academic journal dealing with the interaction of law and technology. It is a student-run, law review–style publication, and two issues are published each year. The journal's staff is selected through a writing competition held at the end of each academic year.\n\n"}
{"id": "53535316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53535316", "title": "Rwanda's Access to Information Act", "text": "Rwanda's Access to Information Act\n\nThe Rwanda Access to Information law (AIL) was written in October 2009 and put into effect with some revisions four years later, on February 8, 2013. The Prime Minister of Rwanda Paul Kagame ordered to publish the law in the official gazette on 11 March 2013, officially making the country the 11th country in Africa and 94th country globally to adopt an Access to Information law. The Rwanda AIL provides a comprehensive framework for access to information in Rwanda. The purpose of the law, as declared in Article 1, is to “enable the public and journalists to access information possessed by public organs and some private bodies.” The legislative project has been praised by Article 19, a British human rights organisation as one of the best access to information laws both in Africa and globally, and recognised by the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative as “a signal of government’s intention to entrench transparency and enhance public participation in governance.”\n\nRwandan access to information law goes to broaden the scope of the organs to which the law applies. Under Article 13, all private organs “whose activities are in connection with public interest, human rights and freedoms” have to comply with the Law. Article 15 then requires all private organs to appoint an information officer to deal with information requests from persons. Finally, Article 14 provides for a way for persons to access information in a private organ to which this Law does not apply.\n\nChapter IV, which deals with compliance with the Law by private organs, has been subject to some criticism. \"Article 19\" has stated that the definition of a private body, provided in Article 2, is inconsistent with the above provisions in the Chapter IV.\n\nAn inclusion of a provision for improvement of the protection of whistleblowers has been labelled as progressive by the international community. Article 16 includes a prohibition to punish any person, who has disclosed information in the public interest.\n\nChapter III defines the procedures for accessing information. Any individual or a group of persons can apply for information with no fees required, except some postage and paper charges. The time for the provision of information is not provided in the Law, and is given to the liberty of a Ministerial Order. The request for information can be laid down in any of the constitutionally acknowledged languages and done by writing, verbally, telephone, internet or any other means of communication.\n\nThe Rwandan access to information law also provides for a broad list of exemptions where access to information can be restricted to material of “public interest.” Article 4 of the Rwandan AIL foresees that information is confidential when it may:\n\nThe Rwandan ACI is said to help promote transparency and more budgetary accountability within the country. The right to access of information is associated with democratic values within the country. Furthermore, the Law is expected to help journalists keep the public better informed, citizens gain more knowledge on their rights and students to conduct better research.\n"}
{"id": "42441191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42441191", "title": "Scott J. Shapiro", "text": "Scott J. Shapiro\n\nScott J. Shapiro is the Charles F. Southmayd Professor of Law and Philosophy at Yale Law School and the Director of Yale's Center for Law and Philosophy. He has been widely cited for his work on the planning theory of law. With Oona A. Hathaway, he has developed the concept of \"outcasting\" in international law and has been critical of humanitarian intervention without authorization from the UN Security Council. His book with Oona A. Hathaway, \"The Internationalists: How a Radical Plan to Outlaw War Remade the World\", was published by Simon & Schuster in September 2017 and was launched at an event organized in DC by New America and moderated by its Vice President, Peter Bergen.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9621437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9621437", "title": "Small Constitution of 1947", "text": "Small Constitution of 1947\n\nSmall Constitution of 1947 () was a temporary constitution issued by the communist-dominated Sejm (Polish parliament) of 1947–1952. It confirmed the practice of separation of powers and strengthened the Sejm. It was renewed in 1949, 1950 and 1951. It recognized some articles of the previous March Constitution of Poland (1921) and PKWN Manifesto (1944), whereas the Constitution of 1935 was declared null and void as fascist. It was replaced in 1952 by the Constitution of the People's Republic of Poland.\n\n"}
{"id": "21197976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21197976", "title": "Sumpter v Hedges", "text": "Sumpter v Hedges\n\nSumpter v Hedges [1898] 1 QB 673 is an English contract law case, concerning substantial performance of a contract and restitution for unjust enrichment.\n\nMr Sumpter was a builder. He had a contract to build two houses and stables for Mr Hedges for £560. He did work valued at £333 and said he had to stop because he had no more money. Substantial payments on account have in fact been made to the builder. Hedges finished the building, using materials which Sumpter had left behind. Sumpter sued for the outstanding money.\n\nBruce J found that Mr Sumpter had abandoned the contract, and said he could obtain money for the value of the materials but nothing for the work.\n\nThe Court of Appeal found that Mr Sumpter had abandoned the building work and emphasised that it left Mr Hedges without any choice of whether to adopt the work. It held that Mr Hedges had to pay for the building materials that he used, but did not need to reimburse Mr Sumpter for the half-built structures. AL Smith LJ gave the leading judgment:\n\nChitty LJ concurred.\n\nCollins LJ concurred.\n\n"}
{"id": "34211891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34211891", "title": "Tamil books of Law", "text": "Tamil books of Law\n\nTamil books of law () or the more correct, Classical Tamil phrase, () are didactic Tamil works aimed to promote ஒழுக்கம் (discipline) among people. They were composed with intent to propound moral guidelines, often without specific religious affiliation, hence, many consider them to be secular. They are comparable to the dharmashastra of the Vedic culture.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25125405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25125405", "title": "Taxation in Antigua and Barbuda", "text": "Taxation in Antigua and Barbuda\n\nIn Antigua and Barbuda, the profits tax for corporations in 2003 was 40%. Incorporated businesses are taxed at 2% of gross income with the first $4,160 of income per month tax-exempt. The income tax, introduced in 1924, was abolished for residents at the end of 1976. Taxes on residential\nproperty are based on current replacement values, and in 2003 were subject to surcharges of 0–20% depending on zoning regulations. Hotels are taxed at preferential rate of 0.2% of taxable value while other commercial property is taxed at 0.75% of taxable value. Other taxes include taxes on life and general insurance premiums, and on property transfers.\n"}
{"id": "13721661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13721661", "title": "Taxation of the Jews in Europe", "text": "Taxation of the Jews in Europe\n\nTaxation of the Jews in Europe refers to taxes imposed specifically on Jewish people in Europe, in addition to the taxes levied on the general population. Special taxation imposed on the Jews by the state or ruler of the territory in which they were living has played an important part in Jewish history. The abolition of special taxes on the Jews followed their admission to civil rights in France and elsewhere in Europe at the end of the 18th and beginning of the 19th centuries.\n\nThe Fiscus Judaicus (Latin: \"Jewish tax\") or \"Temple Tax\" was a tax collecting agency instituted to collect the tax imposed on Jews in the Roman Empire after the destruction of the Temple of Jerusalem in 70 CE in favor of the temple of Jupiter Capitolinus in Rome.\n\nThe tax was initially imposed by Roman Emperor Vespasian as one of the measures against Jews as a result of the First Roman-Jewish War of 66–73 CE. Vespasian imposed the tax in the aftermath of the Jewish revolt (Josephus \"BJ\" 7. 218; Dio Cassius 65.7.2). The tax was imposed on all Jews throughout the empire, not just on those who took part in the revolt against Rome. The tax was imposed after the destruction of the Second Temple in 70 CE in place of the levy (or Tithe) payable by Jews towards the upkeep of the Temple. The amount levied was two denarii, equivalent to the one-half of a shekel that observant Jews had previously paid for the upkeep of the Temple of Jerusalem (). The tax was to go instead to the Temple of Capitoline Jupiter, the major center of ancient Roman religion. The \"fiscus Iudaicus\" was a humiliation for the Jews. In Rome, a special procurator known as \"procurator ad capitularia Iudaeorum\" was responsible for the collection of the tax. Only those who had abandoned Judaism were exempt from paying it.\n\nThe Jewish populations of Europe were politically insecure and could be easily exploited for the levying of heavy taxes in exchange for official protection. The high interest rates charged by Jews became an illimitable source of tax revenue and Jewish wealth was technically easy to gauge because Jews typically stored their assets in the form of cash or promissory notes. \n\nThe Imperial Tax Register of 1241 was the first register to include taxes on the Jews. The total of the taxes on the Jews listed in the Register amounted to 857 silver marks; the total contribution of all the cities together amounted to 4.290 silver marks. These local taxes served wholly or in part to finance town-building. Not all of the contributions reached the central administration. In contrast, it is clear from the Register that the payments made by the Jews reached the Exchequer in their entirety. The taxes on the Jews were first described as the ’’Jewish Tax’’ in 1330.\n\nThe Opferfennig (originally Guldenpfennig) tax was introduced in 1342 by Emperor Louis IV the Bavarian, who ordered all Jews above the age of 12 and possessing 20 gulden to pay one gulden annually for protection. This taxation was 1 florin for every Jew and included assets worth more than 20 florins. Widows were not exempted. King Wenceslas removed the taxable minimum but an exemption for Jews dependent on alms was made later by Sigsmund, who himself levied heavy taxation. Sigsmund taxed a third of the value of Jewish properties. It was represented as a coronation tax as part of Sigsmund's attempts to ascend the throne. Isenmann disagrees and believes it was an innovation sprouted by Archchamberlain Konrad von Weinsberg. By 1433-4 the tax collectors were collecting tax worth a half of Jewish properties. \n\nEmperor Charles IV later ordered the income of the Opferfennig tax to be delivered to the archbishop of Triers. This tax was at some places replaced by an overall communal tax.\n\nThe \"Leibzoll\" or \"Judengeleit\" was a special toll which Jews had to pay in most of the European states in the Middle Ages and up to the beginning of the nineteenth century.\n\nTolerance tax (Toleranzgebührer) was a tax that was levied against Jews of Hungary, then part of the Austrian Empire, beginning in 1747.\n\nThe tax was based on the German statute that a Jew was obliged to pay a certain tax to be \"tolerated\".\n\nIn 1571 a contract was drafted with regard to the status of the Jews in Koło, in which the city's Christians have undertaken to provide protection to the Jews, in return for which the Jews were required to pay a special annual municipal tax.\n\nIn 1729 the Jewish community was required to pay 150 gold coins as an annual poll tax, and in 1738 this sum was increased to 300 gold coins.\n\nIn 1775 the Polish parliament imposed a special duty on books written in Hebrew and Yiddish, requiring each book to be stamped by the municipality. Despite heavy penalties imposed on owners of unstamped books, many books were concealed and unstamped.\n\nThe Russian Kosher tax, known as the \"korobka\", was a tax paid only by Jews for each animal slaughtered in accordance with the kashrut rules and for each pound of this meat sold. It was part of the Russian Jewish \"basket tax\" or \"box tax\". Though it was used to refer to a tax on meat or slaughtering, the word \"korobka\" (Russian: коробка) actually means \"box\" in Russian. The tax came to be called that because Jews paying had to deposit a coin in a box at the kosher slaughterer.\n\nAccording to Herman Rosenthal and Jacob Goodale Lipman, the tax was \"the most burdensome and annoying of the special taxes imposed upon the Jews of Russia by the government\". The burden of taxes, and the \"korobka\" in particular, was one of the factors which drove many Jews to abandon the towns and settle in villages or on noblemen estates.\n\nBetween 1777 and 1784, the Jews of Horodenka, a region on the southeast corner of Galicia, paid a number of special taxes, including the \"protection and tolerance tax\", and the \"property and occupation tax\". In 1784, the property and occupation tax was replaced with the kosher meat tax.\n\nIn 1741, Moldavian prince Grigore Ghica confirmed the obligation of each Jew to pay the crupca, an indirect tax on kosher meat similar to the Russian \"korobka\".\n\nDuring the period 1641–1842, the Jews of Altona (then a town close to Hamburg) paid specifically Jewish taxes as well as the same taxes as other residents of Altona. The tax burden on the members of the Jewish community was twice as heavy as that on the other residents.\n\nIn 1640 the Danish King Christian IV acquired part of the County of Pinneberg including Altona. Altona was subsequently granted the rights and status of a town on 23 August 1664.\n\nThe community was founded principally by Portuguese merchants and was known as the Portuguese-Jewish Community, although many of its members were of Spanish-Jewish descent. \n\nThese Sephardic Jews, who initially pretended to be persecuted Catholics, first came to Hamburg at the end of the 16th century. They were mostly Portuguese- or Spanish-speaking merchants. In 1621, when the armistice between Spain and the Netherlands came to an end, many of the Portuguese Jews moved to Hamburg. They were made welcome, even after the actual situation had become clear; however they were not permitted to establish a cemetery within the city walls. Thanks to the linguistic skills of the Sephardim and their contacts among their co-religionaries they controlled a large sector of the German market in provisions. The Sephardim differed culturally and socially from the Jews who came to Altona, and subsequently also to Hamburg, from the east. These were Yiddish Language speaking Ashkenazim.\nThe permanent settlement of the Ashkenazim was opposed by both the Senate of Hamburg (town council) and the citizens, supported by the Sephardim, who did not wish to see the establishment of a second community in Hamburg. As servants, referred to as tudescos, the Ashkenazi Jews were, de facto, under the protection of the Sephardic Jews.\n\nOn 1 August 1641 the Danish king had formally granted the Ashkenazi Jews the privilege of having in Altona, as hitherto, a cemetery and a synagogue, thus providing the basis for the existence of a Jewish community. Subsequently, the Danish kings promised the Jews personal security, the freedom to practice trade and religious liberties. Some of the Jews living in Hamburg therefore tried to secure the legal protection of the Danish crown in case of any attempt to expel them. In Altona the conditions of residence were favorable, in Hamburg the conditions for trading. These were the reasons for the genesis of the Altona community of Ashkenazi Jews from Hamburg and Altona. Thanks to immigration from the east, Altona became a center of research and scholarship in Jewish teaching, attracting hundreds of students. The officially recognized Jewish court of justice had a reputation as one of the most distinguished in the whole Jewish world. The Jews did not acquire these privileges freely, but in return for the payment of taxes.\n\nFrom 1584 to 1639, as in the Middle Ages, the Jews of Altona paid taxes specific to the Jews, but no further taxes. Each Jewish family was required to pay 6 Reichstaler per year. Under Danish rule this changed: the Jews continued to pay the specifically Jewish taxes plus the same taxes as all other residents. From 1641 every Jewish family was required to pay 5 Reichstaler in Jewish taxes; in the year when Altona became a town the contribution rose to 6 Reichstaler. With the ordinance of 1641 the Danish king had permitted the Jews shechita. This privilege too was not cost-free. For the years 1667–1669 we have records of taxes paid by Jewish butchers. According to these the rates were 1 Mark and 8 Schillinge for an ox, 4 Schillinge for a calf and 2 Schillinge for a lamb. These taxes were twice as high as those paid by Christian butchers. From 1681 Individual taxes on the Jews (6 Reichstaler plus the payments made by the Jewish butchers), were replaced by lump-sum payments by the Jewish community. \n\nFrom the year 1712 onwards it is possible to calculate the amount of the lump-sum payments made by the Jews. During the period 1712–1818 this amounted to 6 Reichstaler for each Jewish family; 6 Reichstaler was the level that had already been set in 1584. Assuming that a Jewish family consisted of approximately 6 persons, 6 Reichstaler corresponded to 1 Reichstaler for each individual Jew. On top of this 1 Reichstaler, also paid by the other residents, had to be paid. The tax burden on the members of the Jewish community was twice as heavy as that on the other residents. The influence of this on business practice constituted an obstacle to the granting of civil rights. In the year 1818 the Jewish Elders declared to the community of Altona that they could not, ’’on the one hand, levy specifically Jewish taxes on the members of their community and, on the other hand, encourage our co-religionaries, especially the younger ones, to pursue useful activity. In short: so to improve our condition that we might not seem unworthy to acquire civil rights. The extension – against our wishes - of the taxes on the Jews would be incompatible with the granting of civil rights.’’ This marks the beginning of the struggle of the Jewish community for emancipation. The Jewish community secured the abolition of taxes on the Jews in the year 1842.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2859522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2859522", "title": "Twelve Years' Truce", "text": "Twelve Years' Truce\n\nThe Twelve Years' Truce was the name given to the cessation of hostilities between the Habsburg rulers of Spain and the Southern Netherlands and the Dutch Republic as agreed in Antwerp on 9 April 1609 (coinciding with the Royal Decree of Expulsion of the Moriscos). It was a watershed in the Eighty Years' War, marking the point from which the independence of the United Provinces received formal recognition by outside powers. For Spain the Truce was seen as a humiliating defeat as they were forced to make several sacrifices but they scarcely got anything in return. For the time of its duration however the Truce allowed King Philip III and his favorite minister the Duke of Lerma to disengage from the conflict in the Low Countries and devote their energies to the internal problems of the Spanish Monarchy. The Archdukes Albert and Isabella used the years of the Truce to consolidate Habsburg rule and to implement the Counter-Reformation in the territories under their sovereignty.\n\nThe war in the Low Countries reached a stalemate in the 1590s. After the fall of Antwerp in 1585, Spain's Philip II ordered Alexander Farnese to direct his military actions first towards the failed campaign of the Spanish Armada, then against France to prevent the succession of Henry IV, a Protestant. In the following years the Army of Flanders was entirely on the defensive. Unable to sustain the cost of a war on three fronts, Philip II was forced to declare a suspension of payments in 1596. Spain's predicament was adroitly used by Stadtholder Maurice. In a series of campaigns, the Republic's army surprised Breda in 1590, took Deventer, Hulst and Nijmegen the following year and captured Groningen in 1594. By that stage the Army of Flanders had lost almost all its strategic positions north of the great rivers.\n\nAfter the accession of Philip III in Spain and of the Archdukes Albert and Isabella in the Habsburg Netherlands in 1598, the Army of Flanders tried to regain the offensive against the Dutch Republic. While it met with a tactical defeat in the Battle of Nieuwpoort on 2 July 1600, it did succeed in its strategic goal to repel the Dutch invasion of Flanders. The lengthy Siege of Ostend (1601-1604) amply demonstrated the balance of power. Both sides poured enormous resources into the besieging or defending a town that was reduced to rubble. Ambrogio Spinola, who had succeeded Archduke Albert as commander in the field, eventually captured the town on 22 September 1604, but only at the price of accepting the loss of Sluis.\n\nMeanwhile, Habsburg diplomacy had managed to disengage from two fronts. In 1598 Henry IV and Philip II had ended the Franco-Spanish War with the Peace of Vervins. Six years later, James I, Philip III and the Archdukes concluded the Anglo-Spanish War (1585–1604) with the Treaty of London. Together, these treaties allowed the Habsburgs to concentrate their resources on the war against the Dutch in the hope of a knock out blow. The following year, Spinola seized the initiative, bringing the war north of the great rivers for the first time since 1594. Suddenly the Dutch Republic had the enemy threatening its heartland. By 1606, the Spanish army had captured Oldenzaal, Lochem, Lingen, Rijnberk and Groenlo despite the efforts of Maurice of Nassau. They did not, however, keep the Republic's allies from continuing their material support. Moreover, Habsburg successes in the Low Countries came at a heavy price. The Spanish did not deliver their knock out blow they had hoped for. Furthermore in 1605 the Dutch East India Company made serious inroads into the Portuguese spice trade, by setting up bases in the Moluccas. These advances signaled a serious threat that the conflict might spread further in the Spanish overseas empire. On 9 November 1607 Philip III announced a suspension of payments. The balance of power had led to a balance of exhaustion. After decades of war, both sides were finally prepared to open negotiations.\n\n The two opposing sides started putting out discrete overtures early in the campaign season of 1606. The contacts were intensified when Albert instructed Father Jan Neyen in March 1607 to seek out the preliminaries that would have to be met for formal negotiations. Raised a Protestant, Neyen had converted to Catholicism and joined the Franciscan Order. The move did not however seem to have cost him his longstanding access to Stadtholder Maurits, a fact that made him a valuable intermediary. Under the guise of visiting his mother in the United Provinces, Neyen travelled between Brussels and The Hague. The States-General of the Republic insisted on a preliminary recognition of their independence, to which Albert consented, be it with significant reservations.\n\nOn 12 April 1607 the United Provinces and the Habsburg Netherlands agreed to a ceasefire, valid for eight months and taking effect on 4 May. The ceasefire was later extended to include operations at sea. Even then it was difficult to obtain the assent of Philip III. The king was appalled by Albert's readiness to concede on the point of independence. Only the desperate situation of Spain's finances compelled him to ratify the agreement. The ceasefire would be prolonged several times to allow for the negotiations that would eventually lead to the signing of the Twelve Years' Truce.\n\nThe peace conference opened in The Hague on 7 February 1608. The negotiations took place in the Binnenhof, in a room that has since been known as the \"Trêveszaal\". As Stadtholder Maurits declined to take part in the conference, the leadership of the delegation of the Republic was given to his cousin William Louis of Nassau, the Stadtholder of Friesland, Groningen and Drenthe. The chief negotiator on the Dutch side was the influential Land's Advocate of Holland, Johan van Oldenbarnevelt. The delegation of the Habsburg Netherlands was led by Ambrogio Spinola. Its leading participant was the Chief-President Jean Richardot. They were assisted by Neyen, the Secretary of State and War, Don Juan de Mancicidor, and the \"Audiencier\" Louis Verreycken. There was no separate delegation for the King of Spain. The delegates of the Archdukes were empowered to negotiate on his behalf.\n\nThe conference failed to come to an agreement on the terms of a peace treaty and it broke up on 25 August. The parties were unable to compromise in matters of colonial trade and religion. To safeguard the Spanish Empire, the Habsburgs demanded that the Dutch would cease all navigation south of the Equator. It was a price that the mercantile United Provinces refused to pay. The demand inspired Hugo Grotius to publish his famous \"Mare Liberum\" in defense of the Dutch refusal. The United Provinces likewise rejected the Habsburg demand that the Catholics in the Republic would be given freedom of religion as an interference in their domestic affairs. In spite of these setbacks, the French and English mediators nevertheless succeeded to convince the two sides to settle for a lengthy truce. It would preserve the peace, while remaining silent on all contentious subjects. After considering longer and shorter periods, the term of the Truce was set for twelve years.\n\nFormal talks were resumed on 28 March 1609 at the Antwerp City Hall. On 9 April the two delegations set their signatures to the text. The ratification process proved difficult. In the Republic, towns such as Amsterdam and Delft feared that the Truce would diminish their trade. The States of Zeeland resented the loss of income from privateering and insisted on maintaining the blockade of the Scheldt. Philip III had his own reasons to relent. It took several missions from the Archducal Court before he was prepared to ratify the treaty on 7 July 1609.\n\nThe Habsburgs agreed to treat the United Provinces like an independent state for the duration of the Truce. The wording of the article was ambiguous. The Dutch version of the agreement stated more or less that the independence of the Republic had been recognized. The French text suggested that the Republic would be treated \"as if\" it were independent.\n\nAll hostilities would cease for twelve years. The two parties would exercise their sovereignty in the territories that they controlled on the date on the agreement. Their armies would no longer levy contributions in enemy territory, all hostages would be set free. Privateering would be stopped, with both parties repressing acts of piracy against the other. Trade would resume between the former belligerents. Dutch tradesmen or mariners would be given the same protection in Spain and the Archducal Netherlands as enjoyed by Englishmen under the Treaty of London. This meant that they could not be prosecuted for their beliefs, unless they gave offense to the local population. For their part, the Dutch agreed to end the blockade of the Flemish coast, but refused to allow free navigation on the Scheldt.\n\nExiles from the Southern Netherlands were allowed to return, but would have to conform to Catholicism. Estates that had been seized during the war would be restituted or their value would be compensated. A number of aristocratic families stood to gain from this article, with Stadtholder Maurits and his siblings foremost among them. The practicalities of the restitution were agreed upon in a separate treaty dated 7 January 1610.\n\nThe agreement was silent on the trade with the Indies. It did not endorse the Spanish claim to exclusive rights of navigation, nor did it back the Dutch thesis that it could trade or settle wherever there was no previous occupation by either the Spanish or the Portuguese. The Truce did not alleviate the situation of Catholics in the Republic or of Protestants in the Habsburg Netherlands. Although they were not actively persecuted, they could not profess their religion in public and remained excluded from public office.\n\n The immediate result for the Republic was that it was now officially recognised by other European states as a sovereign nation. To mark the recognition of the independence of the United Provinces, the States-General added a closed crown with two arches to their arms. Soon after the Truce, the Dutch emissaries in Paris and London were accorded full ambassadorial status. The Republic established diplomatic ties with the Republic of Venice, the Moroccan sultans and the Ottoman Empire. A network of consuls was set up in the main ports. On 17 June 1609 France and England had signed a treaty, guaranteeing the independence of the Republic. To protect their interests in the Baltic, the United Provinces signed a defensive pact with the Hanseatic League in 1614 that was designed to protect them against Danish aggression.\n\nThe official embargo on trade with the Americas had ended, but the colonists now imposed their own \"unofficial\" one, limiting Dutch trade with Caracas and the Amazon region. Temporary setbacks in the Indies caused the price of VOC shares on the Amsterdam Stock Exchange to fall from a high of 200 in 1608 to 132 after the Truce started. The Zeeland transit traffic to the Southern Netherlands declined sharply. On the other hand, the lifting of the Dutch blockade of Antwerp and the Flemish coast helped revive the trade in Flemish textile products, just as the Flemish textile industry experienced a revival itself.\n\nIn the Republic, ports profited from the expansion of trade. Brewing towns such as Delft or textile producing centers like Leiden and Gouda on the other hand, suffered from the competition of goods produced with cheaper wages in the Habsburg Netherlands.\n\nDuring the Truce, two factions emerged in the Dutch Republic. The divisions separating them were religious as well as political. The unity of the Dutch Reformed Church was threatened by a controversy that found its origins in the opposing views of Jacobus Arminius and Franciscus Gomarus on predestination.\n\nArminius' less rigid views appealed to the well-to-do merchants of Holland. They were also popular among the regents dominating the political life of that province, because they offered the prospect of an inclusive church controlled by the state. Johan van Oldenbarnevelt and Hugo Grotius were among the principal supporters.\n\nThe strict interpretations of Gomarus stood for a church of the elect, independent of outside control. They appealed to the industrious strata of the manufacturing towns as well as to exiles from the Southern Netherlands who were excluded from political power, adding an element of social conflict to the controversy.\n\nIn many towns congregations split between Remonstrants seeking to moderate the Belgic Confession, and Counter-Remonstrants who were strict Calvinists, insisting on its rigid interpretation. On 23 September 1617 Stadtholder Maurice of Orange openly sided with the Counter-Remonstrants. Maurice and many of the counter-Remonstrants had mixed feelings about the truce. Maurice was opposed to some of the measures of the truce and wanted full independence for the Dutch Republic. He favoured continuing the war until a total Spanish defeat that led to an unquestionable freedom for the Republic.\n\nIn an attempt to force the issue, Remonstrant regents used their sway over local authorities to organize militias with the \"Sharp Resolution\" of 4 August 1617, which authorised city governments to raise mercenary armies, the so-called \"waardgelders\", outside the federal army or civic militias, to maintain public order. This drew an immediate protest from Maurice and from the other provinces on constitutional grounds. They asserted that the Union of Utrecht prohibited the raising of troops by individual cities without consent from the States General. Even more threatening to the federal supremacy had been the provision in the Sharp Resolution that asserted that units in the federal army paid for the account of Holland owed their primary allegiance to that province. This was a restatement of Holland's old constitutional position that the provinces were supremely sovereign, and the Union no more than a confederation of sovereign provinces. Maurice, and the other provinces (except Utrecht), now claimed that the States General possessed an overriding sovereignty in matters of common defence and foreign policy\n\nMaurice now mobilised the support of the five provinces opposing Holland and Utrecht for a States General resolution disbanding the \"waardgelders\". This was voted through on 9 July 1618, with five votes to two, Holland and Utrecht opposing. Van Oldenbarnevelt and Grotius, in desperation, now overplayed their hand: appealing to the requirement for unanimity in the Union treaty, they sent a delegation to the federal troops in Utrecht (that were supposed to disarm the \"waardgelders\" in that city) with instructions that their first allegiance was to the province that paid them, and that they were to ignore instructions by the stadtholder in case of conflict. This intervention was construed by their opponents as treason. Prince Maurice now brought up additional federal troops to Utrecht and started to disarm the \"waardgelders\" there on 31 July 1618. There was no resistance. The political opposition to his actions imploded as van Oldenbarnevelt's Utrecht ally, Gilles van Ledenberg, \"advocaat\" of the Utrecht States, fled to Holland\n\nOn 29 August 1618 Maurice had Oldenbarnevelt and other leaders of the Remonstrants arrested and then proceeded to purge the Holland \"ridderschap\" and the \"vroedschappen\" of a number of cities that had been governed by Remonstrant regents up to then. He replaced the old regents with adherents of the Counter-Remonstrant faction, often \"nouveau riche\" merchants that had little experience in government affairs. These purges constituted a political revolution and ensured that his Orangist regime would be securely in charge of the Republic for the next 32 years. Henceforth the stadtholder, not the \"Advocate of Holland\", would direct the affairs of the Republic, mainly through his parliamentary managers in the Holland \"ridderschap\". The Holland leadership was emasculated by making sure that the position of Grand Pensionary would henceforth be filled by Orangists.\n\nOldenbarnevelt and three others were tried and executed. Others, such as Grotius, were imprisoned in Castle Loevestein. Meanwhile, the Synod of Dort upheld the strict interpretation of predestination and declared Arminianism heretical. Arminian theologians such as Johannes Wtenbogaert went into exile, where they set up a separate Remonstrant Church.\n\nIn Spain the truce was seen as a major humiliation - she had suffered a political, military and ideological defeat and the affront to its prestige was immense. The agreement was not prestigious for the Spaniards as the Dutch emerged as the most favoured party. Spanish councillors opposed renewing the truce in order to preserve Spain's reputation as a great power and renew the war. The terms of the 1609 truce that the Spanish found objectionable not only included the virtual recognition of Dutch independence but also the closure of the river Scheldt to traffic in and out of Antwerp, and the acceptance of Dutch commercial operations in the Spanish and Portuguese colonial maritime lanes. A defeat for Spain was essentially a defeat for Castile, for it was Castile which provided the policy and the maintenance of the empire.\n\nFor the time of its duration however the Truce allowed Philip along with the Duke of Lerma to disengage from the conflict in the Low Countries and devote their energies to the internal problems of the Spanish Monarchy. Philip also longed to expunge the truce through a vigorous resumption of war.\n\nThe Archducal Netherlands benefited from the Truce. Agriculture was at last allowed to recover from the devastation of war. The archducal regime encouraged the reclaiming of land that had been inundated in the course of the hostilities and sponsored the impoldering of the Moeren, a marshy area that is presently astride the Belgian–French border. The recovery of agriculture led in turn to a modest increase of the population after decades of demographic losses. Repairing the damage to churches and other buildings helped to boost demand. Industry and in particular the luxury trades likewise underwent a recovery. Other sectors, such as textiles and breweries, benefited from relatively lower wages in comparison to the Dutch Republic. International trade was however hampered by the closure of the river Scheldt. The archducal regime had plans to bypass the blockade with a system of canals linking Ostend via Bruges to the Scheldt in Ghent and joining the Meuse to the Rhine between Venlo and Rheinberg. In order to combat urban poverty, the government supported the creation of a network of Monti di Pietà based on the Italian model.\n\nMeanwhile, the archducal regime ensured the triumph of the Counter Reformation in the Habsburg Netherlands. Most Protestants had by that stage left the Southern Netherlands. Under the terms of legislation passed shortly after the Truce, the remaining Protestant presence was tolerated, provided they did not worship in public. Engaging in religious debates was also forbidden by law. The resolutions of the Third Provincial Council of Mechelen of 1607 were likewise given official sanction. Through such measures and by the appointment of a generation of able and committed bishops, Albert and Isabella laid the foundation of the Catholic confessionalisation of the population.\n\nMore than once it looked as if the Truce was about to collapse. The succession crisis over the duchies of Jülich-Cleves-Berg resulted in severe tensions during the siege of Jülich of 1610 and the confrontations that led to the Treaty of Xanten in 1614.\n\nPetrus Peckius the Younger led a failed attempt at renewing the truce in 1621.\n\n"}
