{"id": "675952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=675952", "title": "675 BC", "text": "675 BC\n\nThe year 675 BC was a year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar. In the Roman Empire, it was known as year 79 \"Ab urbe condita\" . The denomination 675 BC for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.\n\n"}
{"id": "2786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2786", "title": "Andrei Sakharov", "text": "Andrei Sakharov\n\nAndrei Dmitrievich Sakharov (; 21 May 192114 December 1989) was a Russian nuclear physicist, dissident, and activist for disarmament, peace and human rights.\n\nHe became renowned as the designer of the Soviet Union's RDS-37, a codename for Soviet development of thermonuclear weapons. Sakharov later became an advocate of civil liberties and civil reforms in the Soviet Union, for which he faced state persecution; these efforts earned him the Nobel Peace Prize in 1975. The Sakharov Prize, which is awarded annually by the European Parliament for people and organizations dedicated to human rights and freedoms, is named in his honor.\n\nSakharov was born in Moscow on May 21, 1921. His father was Dmitri Ivanovich Sakharov, a private school physics teacher and an amateur pianist. His father later taught at the Second Moscow State University. Andrei's grandfather Ivan had been a prominent lawyer in the Russian Empire who had displayed respect for social awareness and humanitarian principles (including advocating the abolition of capital punishment) that would later influence his grandson. Sakharov's mother was Yekaterina Alekseyevna Sakharova, a great-granddaughter of the prominent military commander Alexey Semenovich Sofiano (who was of Greek ancestry). Sakharov's parents and paternal grandmother, Maria Petrovna, largely shaped his personality. His mother and grandmother were churchgoers; his father was a nonbeliever. When Andrei was about thirteen, he realized that he did not believe, but in later life he unequivocally described his religious feeling.\n\nSakharov entered Moscow State University in 1938. Following evacuation in 1941 during the Great Patriotic War (World War II), he graduated in Aşgabat, in today's Turkmenistan. He was then assigned to laboratory work in Ulyanovsk. In 1943, he married Klavdia Alekseyevna Vikhireva, with whom he raised two daughters and a son. Klavdia would later die in 1969. He returned to Moscow in 1945 to study at the Theoretical Department of FIAN (the Physical Institute of the Soviet Academy of Sciences). He received his Ph.D. in 1947.\n\nAfter World War II, he researched cosmic rays. In mid-1948 he participated in the Soviet atomic bomb project under Igor Kurchatov and Igor Tamm. Sakharov's study group at FIAN in 1948 came up with a second concept in August–September 1948. Adding a shell of natural, unenriched uranium around the deuterium would increase the deuterium concentration at the uranium-deuterium boundary and the overall yield of the device, because the natural uranium would capture neutrons and itself fission as part of the thermonuclear reaction. This idea of a layered fission-fusion-fission bomb led Sakharov to call it the sloika, or layered cake. The first Soviet atomic device was tested on August 29, 1949. After moving to Sarov in 1950, Sakharov played a key role in the development of the first megaton-range Soviet hydrogen bomb using a design known as \"Sakharov's Third Idea\" in Russia and the Teller–Ulam design in the United States. Before his \"Third Idea\", Sakharov tried a \"layer cake\" of alternating layers of fission and fusion fuel. The results were disappointing, yielding no more than a typical fission bomb. However the design was seen to be worth pursuing because deuterium is abundant and uranium is scarce, and he had no idea how powerful the US design was. Sakharov realised that in order to cause the explosion of one side of the fuel to symmetrically compress the fusion fuel, a mirror could be used to reflect the radiation. The details had not been officially declassified in Russia when Sakharov was writing his memoirs, but in the Teller–Ulam design, soft X-rays emitted by the fission bomb were focused onto a cylinder of lithium deuteride to compress it symmetrically. This is called radiation implosion. The Teller–Ulam design also had a secondary fission device inside the fusion cylinder to assist with the compression of the fusion fuel and generate neutrons to convert some of the lithium to tritium, producing a mixture of deuterium and tritium. Sakharov's idea was first tested as RDS-37 in 1955. A larger variation of the same design which Sakharov worked on was the 50 Mt Tsar Bomba of October 1961, which was the most powerful nuclear device ever detonated.\n\nSakharov saw \"striking parallels\" between his fate and those of J. Robert Oppenheimer and Edward Teller in the US. Sakharov believed that in this \"tragic confrontation of two outstanding people\", both deserved respect, because \"each of them was certain he had right on his side and was morally obligated to go to the end in the name of truth.\" While Sakharov strongly disagreed with Teller over nuclear testing in the atmosphere and the Strategic Defense Initiative, he believed that American academics had been unfair to Teller's resolve to get the H-bomb for the United States since \"all steps by the Americans of a temporary or permanent rejection of developing thermonuclear weapons would have been seen either as a clever feint, or as the manifestation of stupidity. In both cases, the reaction would have been the same – avoid the trap and immediately take advantage of the enemy's stupidity.\"\n\nSakharov never felt that by creating nuclear weapons he had \"known sin\", in Oppenheimer's expression. He later wrote:\n\nIn 1950 he proposed an idea for a controlled nuclear fusion reactor, the tokamak, which is still the basis for the majority of work in the area. Sakharov, in association with Tamm, proposed confining extremely hot ionized plasma by torus shaped magnetic fields for controlling thermonuclear fusion that led to the development of the tokamak device.\n\nIn 1951 he invented and tested the first explosively pumped flux compression generators, compressing magnetic fields by explosives. He called these devices MK (for \"MagnetoKumulative\") generators. The radial MK-1 produced a pulsed magnetic field of 25 megagauss (2500 teslas). The resulting helical MK-2 generated 1000 million amperes in 1953.\n\nSakharov then tested a MK-driven \"plasma cannon\" where a small aluminum ring was vaporized by huge eddy currents into a stable, self-confined toroidal plasmoid and was accelerated to 100 km/s. Sakharov later suggested replacing the copper coil in MK generators with a large superconductor solenoid to magnetically compress and focus underground nuclear explosions into a shaped charge effect. He theorized this could focus 10 protons per second on a 1 mm surface.\n\nAfter 1965 Sakharov returned to fundamental science and began working on particle physics and physical cosmology.\n\nHe mainly tried to explain the baryon asymmetry of the universe; in that regard, he was the first to propose proton decay and to consider CPT-symmetric events occurring \"before\" the Big Bang:\n\nSakharov was the first scientist to introduce twin universes he called \"sheets\". He achieved a complete CPT symmetry since the second sheet is populated by invisible \"shadow matter\" which is antimatter (C-symmetry) because of an opposite CP-violation there, and the two sheets are mirror of each other both in space (P-symmetry) and time (T-symmetry) through the same initial gravitational singularity.\n\nIn his first model the two universes did not interact, except via local matter accumulation whose density and pressure become high enough to connect the two sheets through a bridge without spacetime between them, but with a continuity of geodesics beyond the Schwarzschild radius with no singularity, allowing an exchange of matter between the two conjugated sheets, based on an idea after Igor Dmitriyevich Novikov. Novikov called such singularities a \"collapse\" and an \"anticollapse\", which are an alternative to the couple black hole and white hole in the wormhole model. Sakharov also proposed the idea of induced gravity as an alternative theory of quantum gravity.\n\nSince the late 1950s Sakharov had become concerned about the moral and political implications of his work. Politically active during the 1960s, Sakharov was against nuclear proliferation. Pushing for the end of atmospheric tests, he played a role in the 1963 Partial Test Ban Treaty, signed in Moscow.\n\nSakharov was also involved in an event with political consequences in 1964, when the USSR Academy of Sciences nominated for full membership Nikolai Nuzhdin, a follower of Trofim Lysenko (initiator of the Stalin-supported anti-genetics campaign Lysenkoism). Contrary to normal practice Sakharov, a member of the Academy, publicly spoke out against full membership for Nuzhdin, holding him responsible for \"the defamation, firing, arrest, even death, of many genuine scientists.\" In the end, Nuzhdin was not elected, but the episode prompted Sergei Khrushchev to order the KGB to gather compromising material on Sakharov.\n\nThe major turn in Sakharov's political evolution came in 1967, when anti-ballistic missile defense became a key issue in US–Soviet relations. In a secret detailed letter to the Soviet leadership of July 21, 1967, Sakharov explained the need to \"take the Americans at their word\" and accept their proposal for a \"bilateral rejection by the USA and the Soviet Union of the development of antiballistic missile defense\", because otherwise an arms race in this new technology would increase the likelihood of nuclear war. He also asked permission to publish his manuscript (which accompanied the letter) in a newspaper to explain the dangers posed by this kind of defense. The government ignored his letter and refused to let him initiate a public discussion of ABMs in the Soviet press.\n\nIn May 1968 Sakharov completed an essay entitled \"Reflections on Progress, Peaceful Coexistence, and Intellectual Freedom\". In it, he described the anti-ballistic missile defense as a major threat of world nuclear war. After this essay was circulated in \"samizdat\" and then published outside the Soviet Union, Sakharov was banned from conducting any military-related research and returned to FIAN to study fundamental theoretical physics.\n\nOver the next twelve years, until his exile to Gorky (Nizhny Novgorod) in January 1980, Andrei Sakharov assumed the role of a widely recognized and open dissident in Moscow. He stood vigil outside closed courtrooms, wrote appeals on behalf of more than two hundred individual prisoners, and continued to write essays about the need for democratization.\n\nIn 1970 Sakharov was among the three founding members of the Committee on Human Rights in the USSR along with Valery Chalidze and Andrei Tverdokhlebov. The Committee wrote appeals, collected signatures for petitions and succeeded in affiliating with several international human rights organizations. Its work was the subject of many KGB reports and brought Sakharov under increasing pressure from the government.\n\nSakharvov married a fellow human rights activist, Yelena Bonner, in 1972.\n\nBy 1973 Sakharov was meeting regularly with Western correspondents, holding press conferences in his apartment. He appealed to the U.S. Congress to approve the 1974 Jackson-Vanik Amendment to a trade bill, which coupled trade tariffs to the Kremlin's willingness to allow freer emigration.\n\nIn 1972 Sakharov became the target of sustained pressure from his fellow scientists in the USSR Academy of Sciences, the Soviet press. The writer Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn, sprang to his defence.\n\nIn 1973 and 1974, the Soviet media campaign continued, targeting both Sakharov and Solzhenitsyn. While Sakharov disagreed with Solzhenitsyn's vision of Russian revival, he deeply respected him for his courage.\n\nSakharov later described that it took \"years\" for him to \"understand how much substitution, deceit, and lack of correspondence with reality there was\" in the Soviet ideals. \"At first I thought, despite everything that I saw with my own eyes, that the Soviet State was a breakthrough into the future, a kind of prototype for all countries\". Then he came, in his words, to \"the theory of symmetry: all governments and regimes to a first approximation are bad, all peoples are oppressed, and all are threatened by common dangers.\"\n\nAfter that he realized that there is not much \nSakharov's ideas on social development led him to put forward the principle of human rights as a new basis of all politics. In his works he declared that \"the principle 'what is not prohibited is allowed' should be understood literally\", defying what he saw as unwritten ideological rules imposed by the Communist party on the society in spite of a democratic (1936) USSR Constitution.\n\nIn no way did Sakharov consider himself a prophet or the like: \nIn a letter written from exile, he cheered up a fellow physicist and human rights activist with the words: \"Fortunately, the future is unpredictable and also – because of quantum effects – uncertain.\" For Sakharov the indeterminacy of the future supported his belief that he could, and should, take personal responsibility for it.\n\nIn 1973, Sakharov was nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize and in 1974 was awarded the Prix mondial Cino Del Duca.\n\nSakharov was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1975. The Norwegian Nobel Committee called him \"a spokesman for the conscience of mankind\". In the words of the Nobel Committee's citation: \"In a convincing manner Sakharov has emphasised that Man's inviolable rights provide the only safe foundation for genuine and enduring international cooperation.\"\n\nSakharov was not allowed to leave the Soviet Union to collect the prize. His wife Yelena Bonner read his speech at the ceremony in Oslo, Norway. On the day the prize was awarded, Sakharov was in Vilnius, where human rights activist Sergei Kovalev was being tried. In his Nobel lecture, titled \"Peace, Progress, Human Rights\", Sakharov called for an end to the arms race, greater respect for the environment, international cooperation, and universal respect for human rights. He included a list of prisoners of conscience and political prisoners in the USSR, stating that he shares the prize with them.\n\nBy 1976 the head of the KGB Yuri Andropov was prepared to call Sakharov \"Domestic Enemy Number One\" before a group of KGB officers.\n\nSakharov was arrested on 22 January 1980, following his public protests against the Soviet intervention in Afghanistan in 1979, and was sent to the city of Gorky, now Nizhny Novgorod, a city that was off limits to foreigners. \n\nBetween 1980 and 1986, Sakharov was kept under Soviet police surveillance. In his memoirs he mentions that their apartment in Gorky was repeatedly subjected to searches and heists. Sakharov was named the 1980 Humanist of the Year by the American Humanist Association.\n\nIn May 1984, Sakharov's wife, Yelena Bonner, was detained and Sakharov began a hunger strike, demanding permission for his wife to travel to the United States for heart surgery. He was forcibly hospitalized and force-fed. He was held in isolation for four months. In August 1984 Bonner was sentenced by a court to five years of exile in Gorky.\n\nIn April 1985, Sakharov started a new hunger strike for his wife to travel abroad for medical treatment. He again was taken to a hospital and force-fed. In August the Politburo discussed what to do about Sakharov. He remained in the hospital until October 1985 when his wife was allowed to travel to the United States. She had heart surgery in the United States and returned to Gorky in June 1986.\n\nIn December 1985, the European Parliament established the Sakharov Prize for Freedom of Thought, to be given annually for outstanding contributions to human rights.\n\nOn 19 December 1986, Mikhail Gorbachev, who had initiated the policies of perestroika and glasnost, called Sakharov to tell him that he and his wife could return to Moscow.\n\nIn 1988, Sakharov was given the International Humanist Award by the International Humanist and Ethical Union. He helped to initiate the first independent legal political organizations and became prominent in the Soviet Union's growing political opposition. In March 1989, Sakharov was elected to the new parliament, the All-Union Congress of People's Deputies and co-led the democratic opposition, the Inter-Regional Deputies Group. In November the head of the KGB reported to Mikhail Gorbachev on Sakharov's encouragement and support for the coal-miners' strike in Vorkuta.\n\nSoon after 21:00 on 14 December 1989, Sakharov went to his study to take a nap before preparing an important speech he was to deliver the next day in the Congress. His wife went to wake him at 23:00 as he had requested but she found Sakharov dead on the floor. According to the notes of Yakov Rapoport, a senior pathologist present at the autopsy, it is most likely that Sakharov died of an arrhythmia consequent to dilated cardiomyopathy at the age of 68. He was interred in the Vostryakovskoye Cemetery in Moscow.\n\nThe Sakharov Prize for Freedom of Thought was established in 1988 by the European Parliament in his honour, and is the highest tribute to human rights endeavours awarded by the European Union. It is awarded annually by the parliament to \"those who carry the spirit of Soviet dissident Andrei Sakharov\"; to \"Laureates who, like Sakharov, dedicate their lives to peaceful struggle for human rights.\"\n\nAn Andrei Sakharov prize has also been awarded by the American Physical Society every second year since 2006 \"to recognize outstanding leadership and/or achievements of scientists in upholding human rights\".\n\nThe Andrei Sakharov Prize For Writer's Civic Courage was established in October 1990.\n\nIn 2004, with the approval of Elena Bonner, an annual Sakharov Prize for journalism was established for reporters and commentators in Russia. Funded by former Soviet dissident Pyotr Vins, now a businessman in the USA, the prize is administered by the Glasnost Defence Foundation in Moscow. The prize \"for journalism as an act of conscience\" has been won over the years by famous journalists such as Anna Politkovskaya and young reporters and editors working far from Russia's media capital, Moscow. The 2015 winner was Yelena Kostyuchenko.\n\nThe Andrei Sakharov Archives and Human Rights Center, established at Brandeis University in 1993, are now housed at Harvard University.\nThe documents from that archive were published by the Yale University Press in 2005. These documents are available online.\nMost of documents of the archive are letters from the head of the KGB to the Central Committee about activities of Soviet dissidents and recommendations about the interpretation in newspapers. The letters cover the period from 1968 to 1991 (Brezhnev stagnation). The documents characterize not only Sakharov's activity, but that of other dissidents, as well as that of highest-position apparatchiks and the KGB. No Russian equivalent of the KGB archive is available.\n\n\n\n\nIn 1980, Sakharov was stripped of all Soviet awards for \"anti-Soviet activities\". Later, during glasnost, he declined the return of his awards and, consequently, Mikhail Gorbachev did not sign the necessary decree.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34972112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34972112", "title": "Anime Salt Lake", "text": "Anime Salt Lake\n\nAnime Salt Lake was an anime convention held during March at the Salt Lake Community College Redwood Campus in Taylorsville, Utah. \n\nThe convention featured an artists’ alley, dealers room, fan discussion panels, live-action roleplaying (LARPing), panels, screenings, and video game contests.\n\nThe convention was founded by members of the SLCC Japanese Club, but the club stopped existing due to having no adviser. The convention was then run by Verses Versus Productions and had involvement from many SLCC students.\n"}
{"id": "47160431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47160431", "title": "Apollo 20 hoax", "text": "Apollo 20 hoax\n\nThe Apollo 20 hoax is a faux story told in a series of YouTube videos about an American, manned, lunar mission that discovered evidence of an extraterrestrial civilization on the far side of the moon.\n\nIn April 2007, videos began appearing on YouTube under the username \"retiredafb\" telling the extraordinary story of Apollo 20, a secret lunar mission that definitively proved the existence of intelligent, alien life on the moon. Then, on May 23, 2007, Italian ufologist Luca Scantanburlo interviewed a man who identified himself as William Rutledge, a retired American astronaut living in Rwanda. Rutledge claimed to be the commander of the Apollo 20 crew and to be the owner of the \"retiredafb\" account. However, Scantanburlo never met Rutledge in person because he conducted the interview over Yahoo! Messenger.\n\nDuring the interview, Rutledge claimed Apollo 20 was a top-secret mission launched in mid-August 1976 from Vandenberg Air Force Base in Santa Barbara, California, conducted jointly by the United States and the former Soviet Union. He alleged the other mission members were American Leona Snyder (an apparently fictitious person) and former Soviet cosmonaut Aleksei Leonov, the first human being to walk in space. The purported landing site of the mission was near Guyot crater, a feature near the much larger Delporte crater. Rutledge said the videos show that he and Leonov discovered the remains of an ancient lunar civilization. He also said they brought back artifacts to earth for study, including a hibernating, female humanoid.\n\nThe first Apollo 20 videos appeared on YouTube on April Fool's Day, a hint that the story was nothing more than an elaborate prank. The videos, however, were then moved to Revver.com (another defunct website) also under user name retiredafb. Other videos are scattered throughout YouTube posted by several different account users, making it difficult to determine the true identity of the hoaxer. Each video continues to draw thousands of views.\n\nDespite the realistic appearance of the videos, amateurs have easily debunked them on YouTube and elsewhere on the Internet.\n\nThe videos are short, each only lasting a few minutes. If viewed in their intended sequence, they tell a partial story of the faux mission, starting with astronauts boarding Apollo 20 and ending with the extraordinary \"discoveries\" on the moon. They include the following images:\n\n\n\"International Business Times\" writer Mary-Ann Russon has suggested the self-confessed perpetrator of the hoax is French videographer/artist Thierry Speth. However, the website with Speth's admission, Need2know.eu, no longer exists nor does Speth's personal website. Also, more videos associated with other accounts have appeared on YouTube about Apollo 20, suggesting that more than one person is keeping the hoax alive.\n\nLike many hoaxes, this story is a mixture of facts and fiction. The starting point for it are photos that NASA astronauts took in 1971 while in lunar orbit during the Apollo 15 mission, the fourth American mission that landed men on the moon. The photos show what look like a cigar-shaped object resting in a lunar crater. The hoaxer apparently used these photos to create the image of a pock-marked alien spacecraft on the moon. The NASA photos are real. However, NASA never claimed they include images of alien spacecraft. The object in question is apparently nothing more than a natural part of the lunar terrain. Apollo 16 photos of the same crater taken a year later show no evidence of artificial structures.\n\nIn truth, Apollo 20 was a mission that never got off the ground—literally. It was one of three lunar missions NASA cancelled due to lack of funding along with Apollo missions 18 and 19. The last NASA lunar mission was Apollo 17, launched in 1972. The next Apollo mission, not counting the Skylab missions, was the Apollo-Soyuz Test Project, coordinated by the United States and the former Soviet Union in 1975. However, its mission was to remain in low-Earth orbit and to dock with a Soviet Soyuz spacecraft, something it accomplished successfully. Some mistakenly refer to that mission as Apollo 18.\n\nSome of the stages for the Saturn V rockets intended for NASA’s three cancelled lunar missions had already been constructed before their cancellation. According to the hoaxer's story, these were all used for the lunar landings of Apollo missions 18, 19 and 20. In reality NASA used one of these to launch Skylab into orbit in 1973. The others are on display at three American space centers: the John F. Kennedy Space Center near Cape Canaveral, Florida; the Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas and the United States Space & Rocket Center in Huntsville, Alabama.\n\nThe 'recreation' mission patch suggests the crew's names as, \"Rutledge - Snyder - Leonov\" (William Rutledge - Leona Marietta Snyder - Alexei Leonov), with a Latin phrase from Virgilio’s “Bucoliche” (IX, 50), \"\", which translates as, \"—your grandsons (descendants) will gather your apples\". The patch deviates from the actual planned, yet aborted, Apollo 20 mission NASA textile patch, with the primary crew embossed as, \"Roosa - Lind - Lousma\" (Stuart Roosa - Don Leslie Lind - Jack R. Lousma), which had been planned to land at Tycho crater to test a rendezvous mission with an earlier unmanned lander. \n\nThe design also seems to suggest an Egyptian sarcophagus being mutually lifted-up by an Apollo-era Lunar Module and Command Service Module out of a shadowy crater with a blue tomb cloth falling away. The center of the design resembles the Egyptian hieroglyph named: bier with body s(dj)r \"stchr\" A55 with black impact craters in the sarcophagus.\n\nThe Apollo 20 hoax was discussed on \"Aliens on the Moon: The Truth Exposed\", a TV documentary directed by American television producer Robert Kiviat which was released on July 20, 2014 on the SyFy Channel.\n\n"}
{"id": "22270075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22270075", "title": "Art in Embassies Program", "text": "Art in Embassies Program\n\nThe Art In Embassies Program (AIEP) is a public-private partnership that promotes cultural diplomacy through exhibitions, permanent collections, site-specific commissions and two-way artist exchanges in more than 200 U.S. Embassies and Consulates around the world. Through art, international audiences gain a sense of the quality, scope, and diversity of American and host country art and culture. Initiated by President John Kennedy in 1963, the program is funded by the U.S. Department of State. Virginia Shore is the Chief Curator.\n\nThe amount of money allotted for art in each building is calculated with a formula based on the gross square footage. AIEP's curatorial team develops thematic exhibitions in collaboration with each ambassador, taking into account the host country's artistic traditions and cultural mores. They recommend artists and works of art, negotiate all loans, and propose placement of the art within the embassy residences. After all loans are secured and the art insured, AIE's registrars coordinate with professional art handlers for the assembly, packing, crating and safe shipment of each exhibition to post. Since 1963, approximately 10,000 pieces of art have been placed in ambassador residences, embassies, and consulates throughout the world, including work by Maya Lin, Jeff Koons, Ellsworth Kelly, Martin Puryear, Louise Bourgeois, Joel Shapiro, Benjamin Abramowitz and other prestigious artists. The total value of art on loan to the embassy program is estimated at $200 million.\n\nInitiated in 2002, the American Artists Abroad program was created to extend Art In Embassies' exhibitions beyond the walls of U.S. diplomatic residences into local communities. Participating American artists travel to countries where their work is exhibited and engage in a series of public cultural programming activities, such as lectures, workshops, and studio visits.\n\nThe art in Beijing cost about $800,000 but has been appraised at $30 million. \n\nThe program was criticized in 2013 when $1M was awarded for a sculpture at the U.S. Embassy in London. The project was subsequently scrapped because the sculpture was too heavy for the planned site.\n\nIn 2014, the purchase of a $400,000 camel sculpture by artist John Baldessari was revealed in U.S. Department of State records obtained by the media. United States Senator Jeff Flake raised concerns with this spending in a U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee hearing on April 21, 2015.\n"}
{"id": "17002514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17002514", "title": "Battle of Al-Sannabra", "text": "Battle of Al-Sannabra\n\nIn the Battle of Al-Sannabra (1113), a Crusader army led by King Baldwin I of Jerusalem was defeated by a Muslim army sent by the Sultan of the Seljuk Turks and commanded by Mawdud ibn Altuntash of Mosul.\n\nBeginning in 1110, the Seljuk Sultan Muhammad I in Baghdad ordered invasions of the Crusader states for six successive years. \"In 1110, 1112, and 1114 the city of Edessa was the objective; in 1113 Galilee was invaded, and in 1111 and 1115 the Latin possessions which lay east of the Orontes between Aleppo and Shaizar.\" \n\nThe attack on Edessa in 1110 failed to take the city. In 1111, Mawdud of Mosul led a host which fought Baldwin I's Frankish army to a draw in the Battle of Shaizar. Afterward, the Muslim leader's army dispersed because of its lack of success and plunder. In 1112 and 1114, the Muslim counterattack against Edessa was weak. In the other four years, the Crusader states - the Kingdom of Jerusalem, Principality of Antioch, County of Tripoli and County of Edessa - joined forces in defense. \n\nIn 1113, Mawdud joined Toghtekin of Damascus and their combined army aimed to cross the Jordan River south of the Sea of Galilee. Baldwin I offered battle near the bridge of Al-Sannabra. Mawdud used the device of a feigned flight to entice Baldwin I into rashly ordering a charge. The Frankish army was surprised and beaten when it unexpectedly ran into the main Turkish army. \n\nThe surviving Crusaders kept their cohesion and fell back to a hill west of the inland sea where they fortified their camp. In this position they were reinforced from Tripoli and Antioch but remained inert. A number of Christian pilgrims also rallied to the army after Al-Sannabra. \n\nUnable to annihilate the Crusaders, Mawdud watched them with his main army while sending raiding columns to ravage the countryside and sack the town of Nablus. In this, Mawdud anticipated the strategy of Saladin in two later campaigns that were marked by the Battle of Belvoir Castle (1182) and the Battle of Al-Fule (1183). As in these campaigns, the Frankish field army could oppose the main Muslim army, but it could not stop raiding forces from doing great damage to crops and towns. \n\nWhile the Turkish raiders roamed freely through Crusader lands, the local Muslim farmers entered into friendly relations with them. This deeply troubled the Frankish land magnates, who ultimately depended upon rents from cultivators of the soil.\n\nMawdud was unable to make any permanent conquests after his victory. Soon afterward, he was assassinated and Aq-Sunqur Bursuqi took command of the failed attempt against Edessa in 1114. Roger of Salerno routed the last Seljuk invading army at the Battle of Sarmin after a protracted campaign in 1115. \n\n"}
{"id": "2283302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283302", "title": "Battle of Waterloo reenactment", "text": "Battle of Waterloo reenactment\n\nThe Battle of Waterloo reenactment is an annual modern recreation of the 19th century Battle of Waterloo on the original battlefield in Waterloo, Belgium. \nIt is held every June on the weekend nearest to the historic date of the Battle of Waterloo (18 June 1815). In a regular year there will be 600–800 reenactors. The 5-year-anniversaries are greater events with 1,500–2,000 reenactors from France, Belgium, The Netherlands, Great Britain, Germany, Poland and Russia. \n\nA major event, one of the largest ever staged, was held on the site of the battle to mark the 200th anniversary of the engagement. 6,200 re-enactors, 330 horses, and 120 cannons took part in actions in an arena area close to La Haye Sainte. During the event, the Allied Army was camped at Hougoumont, with the French camped about a mile away from La Caillou.\n\nThe event was opened with a poetic interpretation of the Battle, created by Luc Petit. The show was located on a stage 150 metres long, with giant projector screens, pyrotechnics, dancers, classical musicians and local choirs – in addition to cast members drawn from the re-enactment groups. Three re-enactors were injured by explosives during this production, with one being taken to hospital with serious burns.\n\nWaterloo (1970 film)\n\n"}
{"id": "25905154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25905154", "title": "Bernhard, schavuit van Oranje", "text": "Bernhard, schavuit van Oranje\n\nBernhard, schavuit van Oranje (English title: Bernhard, scoundrel of Orange) is a Dutch television program depicting the more than only turbulent life of a prince consort. It is a compelling drama concerning a man who tries to be himself, but must survive deep crises, finally to see the real meaning of love. Within the Dutch royal family there is actually no more talked about character than Prince Bernhard of Lippe-Biesterfeld. Whether it concerns Greet Hofmans, extramarital affairs, or Lockheed, Prince Bernhard faced a lot of scandals throughout the course of his life. Besides this he was, and is a person, loved by many as a war hero. A man of extremes. In four parts Prince Bernhard tells the tale of his life. Not only through the spyglass, but especially to his grandson's wife, Princess Máxima of the Netherlands, who will be soon the Queen next to Prince Willem-Alexander. In a way, she takes the same position as Prince Bernhard did in his life. In their conversations and discussions it becomes clear how much they are different, but also how much they are the same. For Princess Máxima this is sometimes very confronting. The tale drags us throughout the course of the Prince's life, from Soestdijk, his beloved German Reckenwalde, Berlin, London, Argentina and Canada.\n"}
{"id": "9589978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9589978", "title": "Beverley Folk Festival", "text": "Beverley Folk Festival\n\nThe Beverley Folk Festival was a three-day celebration of music, workshops, comedy and spoken word, held at Beverley Racecourse in Beverley, East Riding of Yorkshire, England. As of 2018, it will be replaced by an enlarged and reformed Beverley Fringe Festival.\n\nWhilst British Folk Music, both traditional and new, remains at the heart of the festival, it also features many genres of music including Americana, world music, rock, a variety of acoustic performances and much more. In recent years it has expanded to encompass comedy, film, poetry, drama, literature and storytelling.\n\nPast line-ups have ranged from folk legends such as The Watersons, Steeleye Span, Oysterband, Ralph McTell and the Peatbog Faeries, to Billy Bragg, Barbara Dickson and The Proclaimers. Contemporary performers have included Seth Lakeman, Bellowhead, Eliza Carthy and Blackbeard's Tea Party. Outside the realms of mainstream folk music, headliners have ranged from Joe Brown to Paul Carrack.\n\nEstablished in 1983, the festival was originally organised by the White Horse Folk Club.. Over the years it grew steadily in size and became based at Beverley Leisure Centre, with the venue hosting the main stage, with further music and craft tents on the adjacent site along with the campsite. Nearby pubs in the town including the Sun Inn and Tiger Inn also hosted live music, and the town centre various fringe events. Songwriter and radio broadcaster Mike Harding, and playwright and dramatist John Godber are among the festival patrons..\n\nIn 2013, the festival moved to Beverley Racecourse.. The Racecourse site included: \"The Festival Village\" (food and craft stalls and open-air performances), \"Main Stage Marquee (The Big Top)\" (large marquee hosting festival headliners, with a capacity of over 1000), \"Concert Marquee (The Little Top)\" (smaller marquee showcasing new and old artists), \"The Atom\" (venue hosting the Late Night and Moonbeams Sessions, beer tent and improvised music), \"The Racecourse Rooms\" (main Grandstand function rooms/bars hosting talks, open music sessions, The Westwood Sessions and comedy, drama and talks), and \"Children’s Marquee\" (running arts, crafts and music for children).\n\nAlongside the Racecourse site continued the \"Fringe Festival\", in and around Beverley Market Place and pubs.\n\nThe festival is run on a not-for-profit basis and is managed by a board of volunteer directors. Other volunteers are also key to the festival, with dozens of people taking part as stewards, on the reception desk, directing parking, selling merchandise and as part of the recycling (Green) team, etc. Infrastructure is managed by Cornucopia Events with whom the festival has a very close and mutually helpful relationship. \n\nIt was announced in April 2018 that the years festival would be cancelled , citing the loss of its primary source of funding as the reason for its cancellation. The company was placed into immediate voluntary liquidation.\n\nWithin hours of the news emerging of the cancellation of the festival, organisers involved in Fringe Festival events announced their intention to host an enlarged fringe to fill the void. \n\nReflecting very much the festival origins and roots, a reformed and expanded Fringe Festival ran over the planned three days with performances at venues including The Tiger, Sun Inn and Monks Walk public houses, Memorial Hall, East Riding Theatre, a well in and around the town centre .\n\n"}
{"id": "445643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=445643", "title": "COMDEX", "text": "COMDEX\n\nCOMDEX (an abbreviation of Computer Dealers' Exhibition) was a computer expo trade show held at various locations in the Las Vegas Valley of Nevada, USA, each November from 1979 to 2003. It was one of the largest computer trade shows in the world, usually second only to the German CeBIT, and by many accounts one of the largest trade shows in any industry sector, and COMDEX exhibitions have been held in many other countries from 1982 to 2005, altogether 185 shows. The first COMDEX was held in 1979 at the MGM Grand (now Bally's), with 167 exhibitors and 3904 attendees. In 1981, the first COMDEX/Spring was held in New York City.\n\nCOMDEX was started by The Interface Group, whose organizers included Sheldon Adelson, Robert Lively and Richard Katzeff. In 1995, they later sold it to the Japanese technology conglomerate Softbank Corp. In 2001, Softbank sold the show to Key3Media, a spin-off of Ziff Davis. After going into a Chapter 11 bankruptcy in February 2003, Key3Media resurfaced as Medialive International with a cash infusion from Thomas Weisel Capital Partners, which had previously invested in the company. In November 2006, Forbes magazine reported that United Business Media plc had purchased the events assets of MediaLive International Inc.\n\nCOMDEX was originally open only to those directly involved in the computer industry, it was the one show where all levels of manufacturers and developers of computers, peripherals, software, components, and accessories came in direct contact with retailers, consultants and their competitors.\n\nColloquially known as \"Geek Week\", COMDEX evolved into a major technical convention, with the industry making major product announcements and releases there. Numerous small companies from around the world rose to prominence following appearance at COMDEX, and industry leaders sought opportunities to make keynote addresses. Most discussed the computer industry, history, trends and future potential.The COMDEX Conference, attracting over 4000 paying attendees, became an important launch platform for key technologies. Bluetooth(tm) and USB had conference programming and associated exhibition floor pavilions to help these technologies and start up companies be seen in such a large event and marketplace. In 1999, Linus Torvalds attended the exhibition to talk about the Linux family of operating system . A Linux conference and exhibition hall was treated as co-located event, helping elevate the open source products. \n\nIn the late 1980s, COMDEX was opened to the general public, causing an explosion in attendance. It however diluted COMDEX's focus in the industry. Retailers and consultants complained that 'leading edge' customers, upon whom they relied for early adoption of new technology, were buying products at 'show specials' and then expecting the dealers to support those products. . The broadening of audience criteria came about as IT departments decentralized and purchasing of technology products shifted from a common corporate IT budget to departments and company divisions, mirroring mainframes shifting to decentralized networks and local area networking, and later the Internet as the corporate backbone.\n\nAfter the Spring 1981 show in New York City and 1982 in Atlantic City, COMDEX began regular spring shows in Atlanta, Georgia from 1983 through 1988. Then alternated sites between Atlanta and Chicago. The final Atlanta Spring COMDEX was held in 1997; the last Spring COMDEX was planned to Chicago in April 2003 but cancelled.\n\nThe first COMDEX show outside the US was held in Amsterdam 1982. In the record years 1998 and 2000, 21 exhibitions were arranged yearly all over the World: Europe, Asia, Africa, Australia and other parts of America. 69% of the 185 shows took place outside the US. Even when the US shows were cancelled, they kept on for short time, e.g. Gothenburg and São Paulo 2004 and the last in Athens in November 2005. The decline occurred globally: the 2000 show in Basel with 1400 exhibitors drew 79000 attendees, but 2001 17% less.\n\nFollowing COMDEX Fall 1999 (in Las Vegas), organizers made major changes to their criteria for admission of mass media, adjusting criteria to accommodate bloggers with significant market reach, but also restricting simple and open access to anyone declaring themselves 'media'. It offered regular public attendance for the general public.\n\nIn 2000, major companies such as IBM, Apple, and Compaq (now merged with Hewlett-Packard) decided to discontinue their involvement with COMDEX to allocate resources more efficiently, usually through their own corporate events or other direct-to-consumer selling (Apple Stores), and the dot-com bubble caused a decline on the IT market. To reduce costs following the market downturns after the 9/11 attacks many would-be exhibitors stopped renting out or scaled back official COMDEX booths on the convention center floors, and set up invitation-only suites in various Las Vegas hotels. This also allowed exhibitors to concentrate their efforts on industry attendees rather than the general public.\n\nCOMDEX/Fall 2001 organizers at Los Angeles-based Key3Media Group Inc. said they expected attendance to fall from the previous year's 200,000 to 150,000. They also expected the number of exhibitors to decline from 2,350 to 2,000 and the square footage of exhibitor space to slide from just over 1 million to 750,000.\n\nThe last Las Vegas show in November 2003 attracted only 500 exhibitors and 40,000 visitors.\n\nIn June 2004, COMDEX cancelled the 2004 exhibition in Las Vegas, effectively making the Consumer Electronics Show its replacement in Las Vegas. By 2004 the personal computer had become a commodity item priced at levels individual departments and consumers overall could buy without needing much corporate oversight, so \"computers\" became just one of many products in the consumer electronics channels and the Consumer Electronics Show.\n\nA COMDEX event was originally designed to exist only on the internet without a physical meeting location. It was announced to commence during November 16–17, 2010. The COMDEX website (www.comdex.com) was operated by TechWeb, a United Business Media company.\n\nEverything Channel and sister company UBM studios (both United Business Media Companies) partnered to deliver COMDEXvirtual (www.comdexvirtual.com) to the global IT channel community in November 2010. Nearly 5,000 attended the event over the course of the two days, making COMDEXvirtual the largest independent virtual tradeshow in the IT industry. The agenda featured more than 100 speakers and nearly 50 sessions on topics ranging from cloud to mobility and virtualization, to address the event's theme—New Business Solutions: Embracing Disruptive Technologies & Changing Delivery Models. In addition to educational sessions, there was also an Expo Hall with nearly 30 exhibitors including IBM, Intel, Microsoft, Symantec, Panasonic, and D&H. COMDEXvirtual (www.comdexvirtual.com) 2010 was available on-demand through May 17, 2011. The event returned on November 15 & 16, 2011, with 4,300 attendees, and ultimately in 2012.\n\nInterop is an annual trade fair for information technology organised by UBM TechWeb. It takes place at four different locations at various times of the year: Mumbai (India), New York City (NY, USA), Tokyo (Japan), and Las Vegas (NV, USA). 2011 marked Interop's 25th anniversary and throughout that time, Interop has promoted interoperability and openness, beginning with IP networks and continuing in today's emerging cloud computing era. For every US event, Interop volunteers build a network (called the InteropNet) using tools from various vendors to demonstrate the latest technologies and interoperability.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12350939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12350939", "title": "Causes of the 1948 Palestinian exodus", "text": "Causes of the 1948 Palestinian exodus\n\nThe causes and explanations of the exodus of Palestinian Arabs that arose during the 1947–1948 Civil War in Mandatory Palestine and the 1948 Arab–Israeli War are a matter of great controversy between historians, journalists and commentators of the Arab–Israeli conflict.\n\nIn the first decades after the exodus two diametrically opposed schools of analysis could be distinguished. In the words of Erskine Childers: \"Israel claims that the Arabs left because they were ordered to, and deliberately incited into panic, by their own leaders who wanted the field cleared for the 1948 war,\" while \"The Arabs charge that their people were evicted at bayonet-point and by panic deliberately incited by the Zionists.\"\n\nAccording to Steven Glazer \"[t]he Arab view of history has maintained that the Palestinians did not leave their homes voluntarily [but] were expelled by Zionist aggression... Sources sympathetic to the Arab viewpoint have seen in the events of 1948 the fulfilment of a long dreamed-of Zionist plan to rid Palestine of its Arab population, thus forcibly transforming Palestine into a Jewish state.\" Nur Masalha and Walid Khalidi points at the influence of thinking about \"transfer\" of the Arab population to other Arab countries, among Zionists in the years prior to the exodus. In 1961 Khalidi also said that the Zionists had military superiority and that Plan Dalet, the Zionists' military plan executed in April and May 1948, aimed at expelling the Palestinians.\n\nIn his work dedicated to the topic, \"A Historical Survey of Proposals to Transfer Arabs from Palestine 1895 - 1947\", Rabbi Dr. Chaim Simons provided examples of the writings and recorded words of important Zionist leaders including Theodore Herzl, David Ben-Gurion, Chaim Weizmann, Vladimir Jabotinsky, Baron Edmund de Rothschild and Moshe Shertok, demonstrating that the concept of 'transfer' was present from the earliest days of Zionism, that it was viewed as being a crucial action, and concludes that 'transfer' was in fact Zionist policy. Simons concludes further that the Zionist leadership has no viable alternative. \n\nWriting in 1980 Glazer summarized the position of Zionist historians up to that point, notably Schechtman, Kohn, Jon Kymche and Syrkin, as saying:\n\"... the Arabs in Palestine were asked to stay and live as citizens in the Jewish state. Instead, they chose to leave, either because they were unwilling to live with the Jews, or because they expected an Arab military victory which would annihilate the Zionists. They thought they could leave temporarily and return at their leisure. Later, an additional claim was put forth, namely that the Palestinians were ordered to leave, with radio broadcasts instructing them to quit their homes.\"\n\nAt that time (1980) Zionist historians had generally attributed the Arab leaders' alleged calls for a mass evacuation to the period before the proclamation of Israeli statehood. They generally believed that, after that period, expulsion became standard policy and was carried out systematically. As described below, the narratives presented have been influenced by the release of previously unseen documents in the 1980s. In a later review in 2000 Mendes pointed to the prevailing Jewish view being that \"... it was an absolute fact that the Palestinian Arabs departed in 1948 at the behest of their own leaders, and that Israel desperately attempted to persuade them to stay.\" Mendes then examines the work of 'new historian' Benny Morris, based on these newly released documents, and his influence on the debate, concluding that, whilst such Zionist writers add to the traditional understanding of the Palestinian exodus, their arguments do not disprove Morris' multi-causal explanation.\n\nAlternative explanations have also been offered. For instance Peretz and Gabbay emphasize the psychological component: panic or hysteria swept the Palestinians and caused the exodus. They attributed this to diverse causes like breakdown of Palestinian leadership, stories and Jewish military victories. Glazer also says, \"Israeli public opinion has maintained that as the Arabs planned to massacre the Jews, when the Jews began winning the war the Arabs fled, fearing the same treatment would be suffered on them.\"\n\nGlobally, in his paper of 1981, Glazer wrote, \"Both Palestinians and Israeli spokesmen and adherents have sought to link the events of 1948 with their claims to the land today.\" He claims that one \"fundamental [problem of the subject is to deal] with historians who are overtly biased\" and try to identify the factors that influence this.\n\nIn the 1980s Israel and United Kingdom opened up part of their archives for investigation by historians. This favored a more critical and factual analysis of the 1948 events. As a result more detailed and comprehensive description of the Palestinian exodus was published, notably Morris' \"The Birth of the Palestinian Refugee Problem\". Morris distinguishes four waves of refugees, the second, third and fourth of them coinciding with Israeli military offensives, when Arab Palestinians fled the fighting, were frightened away, or were expelled.\n\nA document produced by the Israeli Defence Forces Intelligence Service entitled \"The Emigration of the Arabs of Palestine in the Period 1/12/1947 – 1/6/1948\" was dated 30 June 1948 and became widely known around 1985.\n\nThe document details 11 factors which caused the exodus, and lists them \"in order of importance\":\n\nAccording to Shay Hazkani, \"In the past two decades, following the powerful reverberations (concerning the cause of the Nakba) triggered by the publication of books written by those dubbed the “New Historians,” the Israeli archives revoked access to much of the explosive material. Archived Israeli documents that reported the expulsion of Palestinians, massacres or rapes perpetrated by Israeli soldiers, along with other events considered embarrassing by the establishment, were reclassified as “top secret.”\n\nSeveral Israeli sociologists have studied the influence on the historical debate of the political and sociological situations in Israel. Referring to modern sociological schools and commenting historians methodology in the context of the 1948 war and the Palestinian exodus, Uri Ram considers that \"contemporary historical revision and debates should be interpreted ... against the backdrop of specific crises in national identities and as an indication of crisis in national identity in the global era.\"\n\nAccording to him, \"the three leading schools writing Israeli history reflect and articulate [the] political-cultural divisions [in the Israeli society]. Traditional mainstream history is national, mostly the labor movement version. On its fringe, a critical school of history emerged in the 1980s associated with post-Zionism (even if some of its protagonists identify as Zionists) [and] finally, in the 1990s efforts have been made to create a counterschool of neo-Zionist history...\"\n\nDiscussion of the \"idea of transfer\" in political Zionism became popular beginning in the 1980s when Israel declassified documents pertaining to the 1948 Arab–Israeli War period and the so-called New Historians began publishing articles and books based on these documents. The Zionist \"concept of transfer\" was cited by Palestinian authors such as Nur Masalha and Walid Khalidi to support their argument that the Zionist Yishuv followed an expulsion policy, and echoed by a range of Israeli authors including Simons and Flapan. Other Israeli historians, such as Morris, reject the idea that \"transfer\" thinking led to a political expulsion policy as such, but they explain that the idea of transfer was endorsed in practice by mainstream Zionist leaders, particularly David Ben-Gurion. Critics of the \"transfer principle\" theory cite addresses by the Zionist leadership that publicly preached co-existence with the Arabs, but in private put forward their own plans, or gave support to plans involving the transfer of Arabs from Palestine.\n\nThe idea that \"transfer ideology\" contributed to the exodus was first brought up by several Palestinian authors, and supported by Erskine Childers in his 1971 article, \"The wordless wish\". In 1961 Walid Khalidi referred to the transfer idea to support his idea that the Yishuv followed an expulsion policy in April and May 1948. In the 1980s, historian Benny Morris became the most well-known advocate of the existence of the \"transfer idea\". According to Morris, while not discounting other reasons for the exodus, the \"transfer principle\" theory suggests that this prevalent \"attitude of transfer\" is what made it easy for the Jewish population to accept it and for local Haganah and IDF commanders to resort to various means of expelling the Arab population.\n\nHe also notes that the attempt to achieve a demographic shift through \"aliyah\" (Jewish immigration to the land of Israel) had not been successful. As a result, some Zionist leaders adopted the transfer of a large Arab population as the only viable solution. Morris also points out that \"[if] Zionist support for 'Transfer' really is 'unambiguous'; the connection between that support and what actually happened during the war is far more tenuous than Arabs propagandists will allow.\" (Morris, p. 6)\n\nTo this he adds that \"From April 1948, Ben-Gurion is projecting a message of transfer. There is no explicit order of his in writing, there is no orderly comprehensive policy, but there is an atmosphere of [population] transfer. The transfer idea is in the air. The entire leadership understands that this is the idea. The officer corps understands what is required of them. Under Ben-Gurion, a consensus of transfer is created.\"\n\nMorris concludes that Zionism's aim was \"to transform a land which was 'Arab' into a 'Jewish' state and a Jewish state could not have arisen without a major displacement of Arab population\". According to Morris only after Arab resistance emerged did this become a rationale for transfer. Other authors, including Palestinian writers and Israeli New Historians, have also described this attitude as a prevalent notion in Zionist thinking and as a major factor in the exodus.\n\nThe idea of population transfer was briefly placed on the Mandate's political agenda in 1937 by the Peel Commission. The commission recommended that Britain should withdraw from Palestine and that the land be partitioned between Jews and Arabs. It called for a \"\"transfer\" of land and an \"exchange\" of population\", including the removal of 250,000 Palestinian Arabs from what would become the Jewish state, along the lines of the mutual population exchange between the Turkish and Greek populations after the Greco-Turkish War of 1922. According to the plan \"in the last resort\" the transfer of Arabs from the Jewish part would be compulsory. The transfer would be voluntary in as far as Arab leaders were required to agree with it, but after that it would be almost inevitable that it would have to be forced upon the population.\n\nAccording to Nur Masalha, heavy Zionist lobbying had been necessary for the Peel commission to propose this \"in the last resort\" compulsory transfer. Shertok, Weizmann and Ben-Gurion had travelled to London to talk it over, not only with members of the commission, but also with numerous politicians and officials whom the commission would be likely to consult. This solution was embraced by Zionist leaders. Masalha also says that Ben-Gurion saw partition only as an intermediate stage in the establishment of Israel, before the Jewish state could expand to all of Palestine using force.\n\nAccording to Morris, Arab leaders, such as Emir Abdullah of Transjordan and Nuri as-Said of Iraq, supported the idea of a population transfer. However, while Ben-Gurion was in favor of the Peel plan, he and other Zionist leaders considered it important that it be publicized as a British plan and not a Zionist plan. To this end, Morris quotes Moshe Sharett, director of the Jewish Agency's Political Department, who said (during a meeting of the Jewish Agency Executive on 7 May 1944) to consider the British Labour Party Executive's resolution supporting transfer: \"Transfer could be the crowning achievements, the final stage in the development of [our] policy, but certainly not the point of departure. By [speaking publicly and prematurely] we could mobilizing vast forces against the matter and cause it to fail, in advance... What will happen once the Jewish state is established—it is very possible that the result will be the transfer of Arabs.\"\n\nAll of the other members of the JAE present, including Yitzhak Gruenbaum (later Israel's first interior minister), Eliyahu Dobkin (director of the immigration department), Eliezer Kaplan (Israel's first finance minister), Dov Yosef (later Israel's justice minister) and Werner David Senator (a Hebrew University executive) spoke favorably of the transfer principle. Morris summarises the attitude of the Jewish Agency Executive on 12 June 1938 as: \"all preferred a 'voluntary' transfer; but most were also agreeable to a compulsory transfer.\"\n\nAt the twentieth Zionist Congress, held in Zurich in August 1937, the Peel Commission's plan was discussed and rejected on the ground that a larger part of Palestine should be assigned to them. According to Masalha, compulsory transfer was accepted as morally just by a majority although many doubted its feasibility. Partition, however, was not acceptable for Ussishkin, head of the Jewish National Fund, who said, \"The Arab people have immense areas of land at their disposal; our people have nothing except a grave's plot. We demand that our inheritance, Palestine, be returned to us, and if there is no room for Arabs, they have the opportunity of going to Iraq.\"\n\nThe immediately succeeding Woodhead Commission, called to \"examine the Peel Commission plan in detail and to recommend an actual partition plan\" effectively removed the idea of transfer from the options under consideration by the British, and the 1939 White Paper proposed a complete end to immigration.\n\nAccording to Masalha \"the defeat of the partition plan in no way diminished the determination of the Ben-Gurion camp ... to continue working for the removal of the native population.\" In November 1937 a Population Transfer Committee was appointed to investigate the practicalities of transfer. It discussed details of the costs, specific places for relocation of the Palestinians, and the order in which they should be transferred. In view of the need for land it concluded that the rural population should be transferred before the townspeople, and that a village by village manner would be best. In June 1938 Ben-Gurion summed up the mood in the JAE: \"I support compulsory transfer. I do not see anything immoral in it.\" Regarding the unwillingness of the British to implement it, land expropriation was seen as a major mechanism to precipitate a Palestinian exodus. Also the remaining Palestinians should not be left with substantial landholdings.\n\nIn early November 1947, some weeks before the UN partition resolution, the Jewish Agency Executive decided that it would be best to deny Israeli citizenship to as many Arabs as possible. As Ben-Gurion explained, in the event of hostilities, if the Arabs also held citizenship of the Arab state it would be possible to expel them as resident aliens, which was better than imprisoning them.\n\nIn Flapan's view, with the proclamation of the birth of Israel and the Arab governments' invasion into the new state, those Arabs who had remained in Israel after 15 May were viewed as \"a security problem\", a potential fifth column, even though they had not participated in the war and had stayed in Israel hoping to live in peace and equality, as promised in the Declaration of Independence. In the opinion of the author, that document had not altered Ben-Gurion's overall conception: once the Arab areas he considered vital to the constitution of the new state had been brought under Israeli control, there still remained the problem of their inhabitants.\n\nAccording to Flapan \"Ben-Gurion appointed what became known as the transfer committee, composed of Weitz, Danin, and Zalman Lipshitz, a cartographer. At the basis of its recommendations, presented to Ben-Gurion in October 1948, was the idea that the number of Arabs should not amount to more than 15 percent of Israel's total population, which at that time meant about 100,000.\"\n\nIn the view of Flapan records are available from archives and diaries which while not revealing a specific plan or precise orders for expulsion, they provide overwhelming circumstantial evidence to show that a design was being implemented by the Haganah, and later by the IDF, to reduce the number of Arabs in the Jewish state to a minimum and to make use of most of their lands, properties, and habitats to absorb the masses of Jewish immigrants. According to Michael Bar-Zohar, appeals to \"the Arabs to stay\" were political gestures for external audiences whereas \"[i]n internal discussions\", Ben-Gurion communicated that \"it was better that the smallest possible number of Arabs remain within the area of the state.\"\n\nFlapan quotes Ben-Gurion several times in order to prove this basic stand:\n\nNur Masalha also gives several quotes of Ben-Gurion supporting it:\n\nFlapan considers that \"hand in hand with measures to ensure the continued exodus of Arabs from Israel was a determination not to permit any of the refugees to return. He claims that all of the Zionist leaders (Ben-Gurion, Sharett, and Weizmann) agreed on this point.\"\n\nRabbi Chaim Simons (Ph.D) made an exhaustive survey of references to the Transfer of Arabs by Zionists and others over half a century. In the introduction he writes: \"I soon discovered that it was not just \"a few stray statements\" but that the transfer of Arabs from Palestine was definite policy not only of the Zionist leaders, but also of many leading individual non-Jews\". He concludes (page 298):\n\"Most leaders of the Zionist movement publicly opposed such transfers. However, a study of their confidential correspondence, private diaries and minutes of closed meetings, made available to the public under the \"thirty year rule\", reveals the true feelings of the Zionist leaders on the transfer question. We see from this classified material that Herzl, Ben-Gurion, Weizmann, Sharett and Ben-Zvi, to mention just a few, were really in favour of transferring the Arabs from Palestine. Attempts to hide transfer proposals made by past Zionist leaders has led to a \"rewriting of history\" and the censoring and amending of official documents!\"\n\nIn his Epilogue, Simons makes it clear that he has sympathy for the transfer concept:\nIn conclusion, we can say that in general, the various proposals for the transfer of the Arabs from Palestine were intended to remove the friction, either present or future, resulting from an Arab minority in a Jewish State and to enable each nation to live amongst its own people. It was considered, that after the initial trauma of transfer, both Arabs and Jews would live unmolested by each other in their own States\n\nThe \"transfer principle\" theory was attacked by Efraim Karsh. Karsh argued that transferist thinking was a fringe philosophy within Zionism, and had no significant effect on expulsions. He gives two specific points of criticism:\n\nBased on the aforementioned alleged prevalent idea of transfer, and on actual expulsions that took place in the 1948 Arab–Israeli war, Walid Khalidi, a Palestinian historian, introduced a thesis in 1961 according to which the Palestinian exodus was planned in advance by the Zionist leadership.\n\nKhalidi based his thesis on Plan Dalet, a plan devised by the Haganah high command in March 1948, which stipulated, among other things that if Palestinians in villages controlled by the Jewish troops resist, they should be expelled (Khalidi, 1961). Plan Dalet was aimed to establish Jewish sovereignty over the land allocated to the Jews by the United Nations (Resolution 181), and to prepare the ground toward the expected invasion of Palestine by Arab states after the imminent establishment of the state of Israel. In addition, it was introduced while Jewish–Palestinian fighting was already underway and while thousands of Palestinians had already fled. Nevertheless, Khalidi argued that the plan was a master-plan for the expulsion of the Palestinians from the territories controlled by the Jews. He argued that there was an omnipresent understanding during the war that as many Palestinian Arabs as possible had to be transferred out of the Jewish state, and that this understanding stood behind many of the expulsions that the commanders in the field carried out.\n\nIn the opinion of Glazer (1980, p. 113), there is evidence that Zionist leaders were already thinking about removal of the Palestinian population before the actual occurrence. On 7 February 1948, Ben-Gurion told the Central Committee of Mapai (the largest Zionist political party in Palestine) \"it is most probable that in the 6, 8 or 10 coming months of the struggle many great changes will take place, very great in this country and not all of them to our disadvantage, and surely a great change in the composition of the population in the country.\" Glazer (1980, p. 113) states that the 1947 Partition Resolution awarded an area to the Jewish state whose population was 46 percent Arab and where much of this land was owned by Arabs. He considers that \"it has been argued by the Zionists that they were prepared to make special accommodations for this large population; yet it is difficult to see how such accommodations could have coalesced with their plans for large-scale Jewish immigration; moreover, by 1 August 1948, the Israeli government had already stated that it was 'economically unfeasible' to allow the return of the Arabs, at the very time when Jewish refugees were already entering the country and being settled on abandoned Arab property.\"\n\nAccording to Ilan Pappé, the Palestinian exodus can be described as ethnic cleansing. In his book \"The Ethnic Cleansing of Palestine\" Pappé analyses the causes of the exodus. He describes the aims the Yishuv (the Jewish community in Palestine) had, the way it prepared in the years before the war to be able to achieve these aims and the way in which a pragmatic ethnic cleansing policy was devised and implemented in 1947–1949.\n\nAccording to Flapan \"the Jewish army ... under the leadership of Ben-Gurion, planned and executed the expulsion in the wake of the UN Partition Resolution.\"\n\nPappé gives more details of this planning process. According to Pappé Ben-Gurion was the architect of the ethnic cleansing of the Palestinians. \"His central role in deciding the fate of the Palestinians stemmed from the complete control he exercised over all issues of security and defence in the Jewish community in Palestine.\" In 1947 Ben-Gurion created what Pappé calls the \"Consultancy\". This was a group of eleven people, a combination of military and security figures and specialists on Arab affairs. From October 1947 this group met weekly to discuss issues of security and strategy towards the Arab world and the Palestinians.\n\nAt a meeting on 10 March the consultancy put the final touches on Plan Dalet, according to Pappé the blueprint for the ethnic cleansing of Palestine. According to Plan Dalet a Palestinian village was to be expelled if it was located on a strategic spot or if it put up some sort of resistance when it was occupied by Yishuv forces. According to Pappé \"it was clear that occupation would always provoke some resistance and that therefore no village would be immune, either because of its location or because it would not allow itself to be occupied.\" After 15 May the Consultancy started meeting less frequently because according to Pappé \"ever since Plan Dalet had been put into motion it had been working well, and needed no further coordination and direction.\"\n\nHowever, according to Gelber, Plan Dalet instructions were: In case of resistance, the population of conquered villages was to be expelled outside the borders of the Jewish state. If no resistance was met, the residents could stay put, under military rule.\n\nDuring a September 1948 meeting of the Israeli cabinet, Ben-Gurion proposed ending the current ceasefire. His reasons remained classified when the cabinet minutes were released, but revealed by Tom Segev in 2013:\nIf war broke out, we would then be able to clear the entire central Galilee with one fell swoop. But we cannot empty the central Galilee - that is, including the [Arab] refugees - without a war going on. The Galilee is full of [Arab] residents; it is not an empty region. If war breaks out throughout the entire country, this would be advantageous for us as far as the Galilee is concerned because, without having to make any major effort - we could use just enough of the force required for the purpose without weakening our military efforts in other parts of the country - we could empty the Galilee completely.\nHowever, the proposal was not passed by the cabinet.\n\nFlapan says that \"it must be understood that official Jewish decision-making bodies (the provisional government, the National Council, and the Jewish Agency Executive) neither discussed nor approved a design for expulsion, and any proposal of the sort would have been opposed and probably rejected. These bodies were heavily influenced by liberal, progressive labor, and socialist Zionist parties. The Zionist movement as a whole, both the left and the right, had consistently stressed that the Jewish people, who had always suffered persecution and discrimination as a national and religious minority, would provide a model of fair treatment of minorities in their own state.\" The author later maintains that \"once the flight began, however, Jewish leaders encouraged it. Sharett, for example, immediately declared that no mass return of Palestinians to Israel would be permitted.\" According to Flapan \"[Aharon] Cohen (head of Mapam's Arab department) insisted in October 1948 that 'the Arab exodus was not part of a preconceived plan.' But, he acknowledged, 'a part of the flight was due to official policy... Once it started, the flight received encouragement from the most important Jewish sources, for both military and political reasons.'\"\n\nHistorians skeptical of the \"Master Plan\" emphasize that no central directive has surfaced from the archives and argue that, had such an understanding been widespread, it would have left a mark in the vast documentation produced by the Zionist leadership at the time. Furthermore, Yosef Weitz, who was strongly in favor of expulsion, had explicitly asked Ben-Gurion for such a directive and was turned down. Finally, settlement policy guidelines drawn up between December 1947 and February 1948, designed to handle the absorption of the anticipated first million immigrants, planned for some 150 new settlements, of which about half were located in the Negev, while the remainder were sited along the lines of the UN partition map (29 November 1947) in the north and centre of the country.\n\n\"The Continuum Political Encyclopedia of the Middle East\" states that \"recent studies, based on official Israeli archives, have shown that there was no official policy or instructions to bring about the expulsion.\" According to Efraim Karsh:\nIsraeli forces did on occsasion expel Palestinians. But this accounted for only a small fraction of the total exodus, occurred not within the framework of a premeditated plan but in the heat of battle, and was dictated predominantly by military ad hoc considerations (notably the need to deny strategic sites to the enemy if there were no available Jewish forces to hold them)... Indeed, even the largest expulsions, during the battle for Lydda in July 1948, emanated from a string of unexpected developments on the ground and in no way foreseen in military plans for the capture of the town.\n\nNew historian Avi Shlaim considers that the Plan Dalet is not a policy of expulsion but is a military plan dedicated to secure areas allocated to Jewish state.\n\nBenny Morris considers that there was no master plan nor ethnic cleansing. Morris wrote, \"[T]he fact ... that during 1948 Ben-Gurion and most of the Yishuv's leaders wished to see as few Arabs remaining as possible, does not mean that the Yishuv adopted and implemented a policy of expulsion.\" He later expounded:\nThere was no Zionist \"plan\" or blanket policy of evicting the Arab population, or of \"ethnic cleansing\". Plan Dalet (Plan D), of 10 March 1948, (it is open and available for all to read in the IDF Archive and in various publications), was the master plan of the Haganah—the Jewish military force that became the Israel Defense Forces (IDF)—to counter the expected pan-Arab assault on the emergent Jewish state.\nIn his 2004 book, \"The Birth of the Palestinian Refugee Problem Revisited\", Morris wrote, \"My feeling is that the transfer thinking and near-consensus that emerged in the 1930s and early 1940s was not tantamount to pre-planning and did not issue in the production of a policy or master-plan of expulsion; the Yishuv and its military forces did not enter the 1948 War, which was initiated by the Arab side, with a policy or plan for expulsion.\" Morris also states that he could not find anything in the Israeli archives that would prove the existence of a Zionist plan to expel Palestinians in 1948. Elsewhere Morris has said that the expulsion of the Palestinians did amount to ethnic cleansing, and that the action was justifiable considering the circumstances.\n\nYoav Gelber notes that documentation exists showing that David Ben-Gurion \"regarded the escape as a calculated withdrawal of non-combatant population upon the orders of Arab commanders and out of military considerations\", which is contradictory to the hypothesis of a master plan he may have drawn up.\n\nConcerning the Plan Dalet, Gelber argues that Khalidi and Pappe's interpretation relies only on a single paragraph in a document of 75 pages, that has been taken out of its context. Describing the plan in reference to the announced intervention of the Arab armies, he argues that \"it was a practical response to an emerging threat.\" Gelber also argues that the occupation and destruction of Arab villages described in the paragraph quoted in Khalidi's paper had the military purpose of preventing Arabs from cutting roads facilitating incursions by Arab armies, while eliminating villages that might have served as bases for attacking Jewish settlements. He also remarks that if Master Plan had been one dedicated to resolving the Arab question, it would have been written by Ben-Gurion's advisors on Arab affairs and by military officers under the supervision of the chief-of-staff Yigael Yadin.\n\nLaurens cites some examples of events that indicate a contradiction in the \"intentionalist\" analysis. Like Gelber, he points out that Zionist authors at the beginning of the exodus considered it to be part and parcel of a \"diabolic British plan\" devised to impede the creation of the Jewish state. He also emphasizes that even those who had always advocated the Arab expulsion, like e.g. Yosef Weitz, had done nothing to prepare for it in advance, and thus found it necessary to improvise the \"other transfer\", the one dealing with transfer of Arab properties to Jewish institutions.\n\nGlobally Laurens also considers that the \"intentionalism\" thesis is untenable in the global context of the events and lacks historical methodology. He insists that, were the events the \"intentionalists\" put forward true, they are so only in terms of \"a priori\" reading of those events. To comply with such an analysis, the protagonists should have had a global consciousness of all the consequences of the project they promoted. Laurens considers that a \"complot theory\", on such a long time period, could not have been planned, even by a Ben-Gurion. In an \"intentionalist\" approach, he claims, events must be read without \"a priori\" and each action must be considered without assuming it will lead to where we know \"a posteriori\" it led but it must be considered in its context and in taking into account where the actors thought it would lead.\n\nLaurens considers that with an appropriate approach the documentation gathered by Morris shows that the exodus was caused by mutual fears of the other side's intentions, Arabs fearing to be expelled by Zionists and in reaction Zionists fearing Arabs would prevent them by force to build their own state, and the fact that Palestine was not able to absorb both populations (he describes the situation as a zero-sum conflict).\n\nIn \"The Irish Times\" of February 2008, Benny Morris summarized his analysis as follows: \"Most of Palestine's 700,000 \"refugees\" fled their homes because of the flail of war (and in the expectation that they would shortly return to their homes on the backs of victorious Arab invaders). But it is also true that there were several dozen sites, including Lydda and Ramla, from which Arab communities were expelled by Jewish troops.\" In \"The Birth of the Palestinian Refugee Problem Revisited\", Morris divided the Palestinian exodus in four waves and an aftermath: Morris analyses the direct causes, as opposed to his proposed indirect cause of the \"transfer idea\", for each wave separately.\n\nMorris gives no numbers regarding the first wave, but says \"the spiral of violence precipitated flight by the middle and upper classes of the big towns, especially Haifa, Jaffa and Jerusalem, and their satellite rural communities. It also prompted the piecemeal, but almost complete, evacuation of the Arab rural population from what was to be the heartland of the Jewish State—the Coastal Plain between Tel Aviv and Hadera—and a small-scale partial evacuation of other rural areas hit by hostilities and containing large Jewish concentrations, namely the Jezreel and Jordan valleys.\"\nMore specific to the causes Morris states: \"The Arab evacuees from the towns and villages left largely because of Jewish ... attacks or fear of impending attack, and from a sense of vulnerability.\"\nAccording to Morris expulsions were \"almost insignificant\" and \"many more left as a result of orders or advice from Arab military commanders and officials\" to safer areas within the country. The Palestinian leadership struggled against the exodus.\n\nAccording to Morris the \"Haganah and IZL offensives in Haifa, Jaffa and eastern and western Galilee precipitated a mass exodus.\" \"Undoubtedly ... the most important single factor in the exodus of April–June was Jewish attack. This is demonstrated clearly by the fact that each exodus occurred during or in the immediate wake of military assault. No town was abandoned by the bulk of its population before the main Haganah/IZL assault.\" Also many villages were abandoned during attacks, but others were evacuated because the inhabitants feared they would be next. A major factor in the exodus was the undermining of Palestinian morale due to the earlier fall and exodus from other towns and villages.\nMorris says that the \"Palestinian leaders and commanders struggled against [the exodus]\" but in many cases encouraged evacuation of women children and old people out of harms way and in some cases ordered villages to evacuate.\n\nRegarding expulsions (Morris defines expulsions as \"when a Haganah/IDF/IZL/LHI unit entered or conquered a town or village and then ordered its inhabitants to leave\") Morris says that the Yishuv leaders \"were reluctant to openly order or endorse expulsions\" in towns but \"Haganah commanders exercised greater independence and forcefulness in the countryside\": \"In general Haganah operational orders for attacks on towns did not call for the expulsion or eviction of the civilian population. But from early April, operational orders for attacks on villages and clusters of villages more often than not called for the destruction of villages and, implicitly or explicitly, expulsion.\" Issuing expulsion orders was hardly necessary though, because \"most villages were completely or almost completely empty by the time they were conquered\", \"the inhabitants usually fled with the approach of the advancing Jewish column or when the first mortar bombs began to hit their homes.\" The Givati Brigade engaged in expulsions near Rehovot.\n\nIn July \"altogether, the Israeli offensives of the \"Ten Days\" and the subsequent clearing operations probably send something over 100,000 Arabs into exile.\" About half of these were expelled from Lydda and Ramle on 12 through 14 July. Morris says that expulsion orders were given for both towns, the one for Ramle calling for \"sorting out of the inhabitants, and send the army-age males to a prisoner-of-war camp\". \"The commanders involved understood that what was happening was an expulsion rather than a spontaneous exodus.\"\n\nIn October and November Operations Yoav in the Negev and Hiram in central Galilee were aimed at destroying enemy formations of respectively the Egyptian army and the Arab Liberation Army, and precipitated the flight of 200,000–230,000 Arabs. The UN mediator on Palestine Folke Bernadotte reported in September 1948 that Palestinian flight, \"resulted from panic created by fighting in their communities, by rumours concerning real or alleged acts of terrorism, or expulsion\". United Nations observers, who had been dispatched to monitor how the partition plan, reported in October that Israeli policy was that of \"uprooting Arabs from their native villages in Palestine by force or threat\". In the Negev the clearing was more complete because \"the OC, Allon, was known to want \"Arab-clean\" areas along his line of advance\" and \"his subordinates usually acted in accordance\" and the inhabitants were almost uniformly Muslim. In the Galilee pocket, for various reasons, about 30–50 per cent of the inhabitants stayed.\nMore specifically regarding the causes of the exodus Morris says: \"Both commanders were clearly bent on driving out the population in the area they were conquering,\" and \"Many, perhaps most, [Arabs] expected to be driven out, or worse. Hence, when the offensives were unleashed, there was a 'coalescence' of Jewish and Arab expectations, which led, especially in the south, to spontaneous flight by most of the inhabitants. And, on both fronts, IDF units 'nudged' Arabs into flight and expelled communities.\"\n\nThe \"Two-stage explanation\" brought forth by Yoav Gelber synthetises the events of 1948 in distinguishing two phases in the exodus. Before the first truce (11 June – 8 July 1948), it explains the exodus as a result of the crumbling Arab social structure that was not ready to withstand a civil war, and justified Jewish military conduct. After the truce the IDF launched counter offensives against the invading forces. Gelber explains the exodus in this stage as a result of expulsions and massacres performed by the Israeli army during Operation Dani and the campaign in the Galilee and Negev.\n\nGelber describes the exodus before July 1948 as being initially mainly due to the inability of the Palestinian social structure to withstand a state of war :\n\nAccording to Efraim Karsh in April 1948 \"some 100,000 Palestinians, mostly from the main urban centres of Jaffa, Haifa, and Jerusalem and from villages in the coastal plain, had gone. Within a month those numbers had nearly doubled; and by early June, ... some 390,000 Palestinians had left.\" 30,000 Arabs, mostly intellectuals and members of the social elite, had fled Palestine in the months following the approval of the partition plan, undermining the social infrastructure of Palestine. A 10 May 1948 \"Time\" magazine article states: \"Said one British official in Jerusalem last week: 'The whole effendi class has gone. It is remarkable how many of the younger ones are suddenly deciding that this might be a good time to resume their studies at Oxford...'\"\n\nOther historians such as Efraim Karsh, Avraham Sela, Moshe Efrat, Ian J. Bickerton, Carla L. Klausner, and Howard Sachar share this analysis. In his interpretation of the second wave (Gelber's first \"stage\"), as he names Israeli attacks (Operations Nachshon, Yiftah, Ben 'Ami, ...) Sachar considers Israeli attacks only as a secondary reason for flight, with the meltdown of the Palestinian society as the primary:\nThe most obvious reason for the mass exodus was the collapse of Palestine Arab political institutions that ensued upon the flight of the Arab leadership... [O]nce this elite was gone, the Arab peasant was terrified by the likelihood of remaining in an institutional and cultural void. Jewish victories obviously intensified the fear and accelerated departure. In many cases, too ... Jews captured Arab villages, expelled the inhabitants, and blew up houses to prevent them from being used as strongholds against them. In other instances, Qawukji's men used Arab villages for their bases, provoking immediate Jewish retaliation.\n\nMoshe Efrat of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem wrote:\n[R]ecent studies, based on official Israeli archives, have shown that there was no official policy or instructions intended to bring about the expulsion and that most of the Palestinians who became refugees had left their homes on their own initiative, before they came face to face with Israeli forces, especially in the period between late 1947 and June 1948. Later on, Israel's civil and military leadership became more decisive about preventing refugees from returning to their homes and more willing to resort to coercion in expelling the Palestine Arabs from their homes. This was not uniformly implemented in every sector and had much to do with decisions of local military commanders and circumstances, which might explain why some 156,000 Palestinians remained in Israel at the end of the war.\n\nIn their book, \"A Concise History of the Arab–Israeli Conflict\", Ian J. Bicketon of the University of New South Wales and Carla L. Klausner of the University of Missouri–Kansas City go even further back in history by citing the British military response to the 1936–1939 Arab revolt as the decisive moment when the Palestinian leadership and infrastructure began to crumble, and, in the most extreme cases, were expelled by the British from what was then the British Mandate for Palestine. Bickerton and Klausner conclude:\nPalestinian leadership was absent just at the time when it was most needed. Further collapse occurred during 1947–1949, as many of the local mayors, judges, communal and religious officials fled. Palestinian society ... was semifeudal in character, and once the landlords and other leaders had made good their own escape—as they did from Haifa, Jaffa, Safed, and elsewhere—the Arab townspeople, villagers, and peasants were left helpless.\n\nAfter the start of the Israeli counteroffensive, Gelber considers the exodus to have been a result of Israeli army's victory and the expulsion of Palestinians. He writes, \"The Arab expeditions failed to protect them, and they remained a constant reminder of the fiasco. These later refugees were sometimes literally deported across the lines. In certain cases, IDF units terrorized them to hasten their flight, and isolated massacres particularly during the liberation of Galilee and the Negev in October 1948 expedited the flight.\"\n\nMorris also reports expulsions during these events. For example, concerning whether in Operation Hiram there was a comprehensive and explicit expulsion order he replied:\nYes. One of the revelations in the book is that on 31 October 1948, the commander of the Northern Front, Moshe Carmel, issued an order in writing to his units to expedite the removal of the Arab population. Carmel took this action immediately after a visit by Ben-Gurion to the Northern Command in Nazareth. There is no doubt in my mind that this order originated with Ben-Gurion. Just as the expulsion order for the city of Lod, which was signed by Yitzhak Rabin, was issued immediately after Ben-Gurion visited the headquarters of Operation Dani [July 1948].\n\nGelber also underlines that Palestinian Arabs had certainly in mind the opportunity they would have to return their home after the conflict and that this hope must have eased their flight: \"When they ran away, the refugees were confident of their eventual repatriation at the end of hostilities. This term could mean a cease-fire, a truce, an armistice and, certainly, a peace agreement. The return of escapees had been customary in the Middle East's wars throughout the ages\".\n\nHistorian Christopher Sykes saw the causes of the Arab flight similar to Gelber:\nIt can be said with a high degree of certainty that most of the time in the first half of 1948 the mass-exodus was the natural, thoughtless, pitiful movement of ignorant people who had been badly led and who in the day of trial found themselves forsaken by their leaders. Terror was the impulse, by hearsay most often, and sometimes through experience as in the Arab port of Jaffa which surrendered on the 12th of May and where the Irgunists, to quote Mr. John Marlowe, \"embellished their Deir Yassin battle honours by an orgy of looting\". But if the exodus was by and large an accident of war in the first stage, in the later stages it was consciously and mercilessly helped on by Jewish threats and aggression towards Arab populations.\n\nKarsh views the second stage as being \"dictated predominantly by ad hoc military considerations (notably the need to deny strategic sites to the enemy if there were no available Jewish forces to hold them)\".\n\nIn a 1958 publication, Don Peretz rejected both the Israeli and Palestinian explanations of the exodus. Peretz suggested that the exodus could be attributed to \"deeper social causes of upheaval within the Palestine Arab community\" such as the breakdown of all governing structures. According to him, \"The community became easy prey to rumor and exaggerated stories. The psychological preparation for mass flight was complete. The hysteria fed upon the growing number of Jewish military victories. With most Arab leaders then outside the country, British officials no longer in evidence, and the disappearance of the Arab press, there remained no authoritative voice to inspire confidence among the Arab masses and to check their flight. As might be expected in such circumstances, the flight gathered momentum until it carried away nearly the whole of the Palestine Arab community\"\n\nIn 1959, Rony Gabbay wrote:\nThe departure of the Arabs of Palestine from towns and villages during April - 15 May 1948 cannot be attributed to any specific reason. Rather, the exodus was the result of many diverse elements—psychological, military and political—which combined together to produce this phenomena. It was a result of the contradictory actions and reactions which destroyed all hopes in the hearts of the Arab population and urged them to flee aimlessly hither and thither. The way in which groups and even members of the same families fled, individually and in different directions can give us an idea of the degree of panic and horror which was felt amongst them.\"\n\nIn their volume on the 1947–1948 period in Jerusalem and surrounding areas, \"O Jerusalem!\", Larry Collins and Dominique Lapierre give a variety of explanations for the cause of the 1948 Palestinian exodus, but conclude, \"Above all, fear and uncertainty fueled the Arabs' flight.\" Middle East historian Karen Armstrong described a similar mechanism. Schechtman, argues in his book \"The Arab Refugee Problem\" that a large part of the exodus was caused by Arab fear of attack, reprisal, and the other stresses of war. Schechtman himself attributes this purely to the perspective of the refugees. He expounds this theory as follows:\nArab warfare against the Jews in Palestine ... had always been marked by indiscriminate killing, mutilating, raping, looting and pillaging. This 1947–48 attack on the Jewish community was more savage than ever. Until the Arab armies invaded Israel on the very day of its birth, May 15, 1948, no quarter whatsoever had ever been given to a Jew who fell into Arab hands. Wounded and dead alike were mutilated. Every member of the Jewish community was regarded as an enemy to be mercilessly destroyed...<br>[T]he Arab population of Palestine anticipated nothing less than massacres in retaliation if the Jews were victorious. Measuring the Jewish reaction by their own standards, they simply could not imagine that the Jews would not reply in kind what they had suffered at Arab hands. And this fear played a significant role in the Arab flight.\n\nSchechtman also cites evidence that the Arab leaders spread rumors of atrocities that did not actually occur, which only added to the Palestinian Arabs' fears.\n\nAccording to Avraham Sela, the Palestinian exodus began with news of the Zionists' military victories in April–May 1948:\n[T]he offensive had a strong psychological effect on Palestinian-Arab villagers, whose tendency to leave under Jewish military pressure became a mass exodus... [T]he exodus was a spontaneous movement, caused by an awareness of the Arab weakness and fear of annihilation typical in civil wars. Moreover, an early visible departure of nearly all the leadership was clearly understood as a signal, if not as an outright command.\n\nIn his conclusions concerning the second wave of the flight, Morris also cites the \" factor\" as one of the causes. What happened or allegedly happened and in a more general way the massacre of Deir Yassin and its exaggerated description broadcast on Arab radio stations undermined Arabs' morale. Yoav Gelber also considers that the \"Haganah, IZL and LHI's retaliations terrified the Arabs and hastened the flight\". One Arab source at the time stated, \"Had the Arab leaders not disseminated horrific stories about Deir Yasin the residents of the Arab areas in Palestine would not have run away from their homes.\"\n\nChilders, while dismissing the fact that Arab leaders instigated the flight on radio broadcasts, points out that Zionist radio broadcasts were designed to demoralize the Arab audience. The author cites the fact that rumours were spread by the Israeli forces that they possessed the atomic bomb. Similarly, Khalidi points to what he describes as the Zionist \"psychological offensive\" which was highlighted by, though not limited to, radio messages warning the Arabs of diseases, the ineffectiveness of armed resistance and the incompetence of their leaders.\n\nThe Yishuv used psychological warfare that initiated, accelerated and increased the Palestinian exodus. In many instances the declared aim was to demoralise the Palestinians or to accelerate their surrender. In many instances however the result was the flight of Palestinians. According to various historians the Yishuv engaged in various types of psychological warfare:\n\nAccording to Pappé intimidation by various means was used. For instance in Haifa since December 1947 Jewish troops engaged in sniping, shelling, rolling barrels full of explosives and huge steel balls down into Palestinian neighborhoods and pouring oil mixed with fuel down the roads, which they then ignited. Yoav Gelber considers that the \"Haganah, IZL and LHI's retaliations terrified the Arabs and hastened the flight\".\n\nAccording to Pappé the Haganah engaged in what it called \"violent reconnaissance\": \"Special units of the Haganah would enter villages looking for 'infiltrators' (read 'Arab volunteers') and distribute leaflets warning the people against cooperating with the Arab Liberation Army. Any resistance to such an incursion usually ended with the Jewish troops firing at random and killing several villagers.\" Khalidi mentions \"repeated and merciless raids against sleeping villages carried out in conformity with plan C\", i.e. in the period before April 1948.\n\nIn some cases threatening leaflets were distributed, containing wordings like: \"if the war will be taken to your place, it will cause massive expulsion of the villagers, with their wives and children.\"\n\nVarious authors give examples of instigation of whisper campaigns. Childers cites the fact that rumours were spread by the Israeli forces that they possessed the atomic bomb. Morris cites Yigal Allon, the Palmach commander, describing such a campaign: \"I gathered the Jewish mukhtars, who had ties with the different Arab villages, and I asked them to whisper in the ears of several Arabs that giant Jewish reinforcements had reached the Galilee and were about to clean out the villages of the Hula, [and] to advise them, as friends, to flee while they could. And the rumour spread throughout the Hula that the time had come to flee. The flight encompassed tens of thousands. The stratagem fully achieved its objective.\"\n\nChilders points out that Zionist radio broadcasts were designed to demoralize the Arab audience.On March 17, four days before the Jewish offensive, the Irgun made an Arabic-language broadcast, warning urban Arabs that \"typhus, cholera and similar diseases would break out heavily among them in April and May\". Similarly, Khalidi points to what he describes as the Zionist \"psychological offensive\" which was highlighted by, though not limited to, radio messages warning the Arabs of diseases, the ineffectiveness of armed resistance and the incompetence of their leaders. According to Morris during the exodus of Haifa \"The Haganah broadcasts called on the populace to 'evacuate the women, the children and the old immediately, and send them to a safe haven'.\"\n\nDuring the exodus from Haifa according to Morris the Haganah made effective use of \"Arab language broadcasts and loudspeaker vans\" and according to Pappé \"Jewish loudspeakers [urged] the Palestinian women and children to leave before it was too late.\"\n\nAccording to Morris during April the Haganah \"had prepared and recorded six speeches, which were broadcast time and again by the Haganah's radio station and loudspeaker vans\". They didn't call for Arab flight, but they \"were designed to cause demoralisation—and the HGS\\Operations proposed to 'exploit' this demoralisation (it didn't say how)\".\n\nKhalidi illustrates the psychological warfare of the Haganah by the use of the Davidka mortar. He writes that it was a \"favorite weapon of the Zionists\", which they used against civilians: \"the Davidka tossed a shell containing 60 lbs. of TNT usually into crowded built-up civilian quarters where the noise and blast maddened women and children into a frenzy of fear and panic.\"\n\nVarious authors mention specific cases in which the Yishuv engaged in shelling of civilians:\n\nIn his memoirs the Palestinian Arab physician Elias Srouji claims massacres were intended to scare inhabitants. He wrote:\nTactics became even more brutal when the Zionists were ready to complete their occupation of the Galilee in October. By that time the Arab villagers, having seen what had happened elsewhere, had become adamant about staying put in their homes and on their lands. To frighten them away, the occupying forces started a strategy of planned massacres, which were carried out in Eilabun, Faradiyya, Safsaf, Sa'sa', and other villages. In places where this was not to their advantage for one reason or another, the army would resort to forceful expulsion. I was to wittnes some of these tactics in Rameh a month or so later.\n\nNathan Krystall writes:\nNews of the attack on and massacre in Deir Yassin spread quickly throughout Palestine. De Reynier argued that the \"general terror\" was \"astutely fostered by the Jews, with Haganah radio incessantly repeating 'Remember Deir Yassin' and loudspeaker vans broadcasting messages in Arabic such as: 'Unless you leave your homes, the fate of Deir Yassin will be your fate.'\"\n\nAccording to Flapan, \"from another perspective, [the Deir Yassin massacre] made perfect sense. More panic was sown among the Arab population by this operation than by anything that had happened up to then... While Ben-Gurion condemned the massacre in no uncertain terms, he did nothing to curb the independent actions of the Jewish underground armies.\"\n\nIsraeli official sources, officials at the time, sympathetic accounts in the foreign press, and some historians have claimed that the refugee flight was instigated by Arab leaders, though almost invariably no primary sources were cited. Yosef Weitz wrote in October 1948: \"The migration of the Arabs from the Land of Israel was not caused by persecution, violence, expulsion ... [it was] a tactic of war on the part of the Arabs...\" Israeli historian Efraim Karsh wrote, \"The logic behind this policy was apparently that 'the absence of women and children from Palestine would free the men for fighting', as the Secretary-General of the Arab League, Abd al-Rahman Azzam put it.\" In his book, \"The Arab–Israeli Conflict: The Palestine War 1948\", Karsh cited the substantial, active role the Arab Higher Committee played in the exoduses from Haifa, Tiberias, and Jaffa as an important part of understanding what he called the \"birth of the Palestinian refugee problem\".\n\nA 3 May 1948 \"Time\" magazine article attributed the exodus from the city of Haifa to fear, Arab orders to leave and a Jewish assault. \"The Economist\" attributed the exodus from Haifa to orders to leave from the Higher Arab Executive as well as expulsion by Jewish troops. According to Childers, the journalist responsible for the article was not present in Haifa, and he reported as an eyewitness account what was second-hand. The article is only cited for this passage, though the same correspondent states therein that the second wave of destitute refugees, were given an hour by Jewish troops to quit the areas. In what has become known as \"The Spectator Correspondence\", Hedley V. Cooke quote from Time Magazine (18 May 1961) \"Mr, Ben-Gurion, the Israel (sic) Prime Minister. . . denied in the Knesset yesterday that a single Arab resident had been expelled by the Government since the establishment of the State of Israel and he said the pre-State Jewish underground had announced that any Arab would remain where he was. \"He said the fugitives had fled under the orders of Arab Leaders\"\". In the same \"Spectator Correspondence\" (page 54), Jon Kimche wrote \"But there is now a mountain of independent evidence to show that the initiative for the Arab exodus came from the Arab side and not from the Jews\". In the same \"Correspondence\" the views of Ben-Gurion and Kimche are critiqued by Childers and Khalidi (see - Criticisms of the \"Arab leaders' endorsement of flight\" explanation - below)\n\nIn the case of the village of Ein Karem, William O. Douglas was told by the villagers that the cause of their flight was twofold: first, it was caused by fear that came out of the Deir Yassin massacre, and second because \"the villagers were told by the Arab leaders to leave. It apparently was a strategy of mass evacuation, whether or not necessary as a military or public safety measure.\"\n\nKhalid al-`Azm who was prime minister of Syria from 17 December 1948 to 30 March 1949, listed in his memoirs a number of reasons for the Arab defeat in an attack on the Arab leaders including his own predecessor Jamil Mardam Bey:\n\nAfter the war, a few Arab leaders tried to present the Palestinian exodus as a victory by claiming to have planned it. Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri as-Said was later quoted as saying: \"We will smash the country with our guns and obliterate every place the Jews shelter in. The Arabs should conduct their wives and children to safe areas until the fighting has died down.\"\n\nJamal Husseini, Palestinian representative to the United Nations, wrote to the Syrian UN representative, at the end of August 1948,\n\nAccording to Yitschak Ben Gad, Mahmoud Abbas, then member of PLO Executive Committee, wrote an article \"Madha `Alamna wa-Madha Yajib An Na`mal\" [What We Have Learned and What We Should Do] and published it in \"Falastineth-Thawra\" [Revolutionary Palestine], the official journal of the PLO, Beirut, in March 26, 1976:\n\n\"The Arab armies entered Palestine to protect the Palestinians from the Zionist tyranny but, instead, they abandoned them, forced them to emigrate and to leave their homeland, and threw them into prisons similar to the ghettos in which the Jews used to live in Eastern Europe, as if we were condemned to change places with them: they moved out of their ghettos and we occupied similar ones. The Arab States succeeded in scattering the Palestinian people and in destroying their unity.\"\n\nNumerous recent historians, particularly since the 1980s, now dismiss the claim as devoid of evidence, Morris, with others of the New Historians school, concur that Arab instigation was not the major cause of the refugees' flight. As regards the overall exodus, they state that the major cause of Palestinian flight was instead military actions by the Israeli Defence Force and fear of them. In their view, Arab instigation can only explain a \"small part\" of the exodus and not a \"large part\" of it. Moreover, Morris and Flapan have been among the authors whose research has disputed the official Israeli version claiming that the refugee flight was in large part instigated by Arab leaders.\n\nFrequently repeated virtually identical lists of reasons are quoted on the internet in support of the exodus of the Palestinian Arabs in 1948/1949 being due to orders from Arab leaders. In 1961 Erskine Childers investigated many of these offered references: \n\"Examining every official Israeli statement about the Arab exodus, I was struck by the fact that no primary evidence of evacuation orders was ever produced. The charge, Israel claimed, was \"documented\"; but where were the documents? ... In Israel in 1958, as a guest of the Foreign Office and therefore doubly hopeful of serious assistance, I asked to be shown the proofs, I was assured they existed, and was promised them. None had been offered when I left, but I was again assured. I asked to have the material sent on to me. I am still waiting.\"\n\n1) Various quotes have been attributed to Monsignor George Hakim, Greek Catholic Bishop of Galilee, such as “The Arabs were urged to flee by their own leaders\" and \"The refugees were confident their absence would not last long, and that they would return within a week or two”. Childers investigated this claim: \n\"Another stock quotation down the years has been that, supposedly, of the Greek-Catholic Archbishop of Galilee. For example, Israel's Abba Eban told the U.N. Special Political Committee in 1957 that the Archbishop had \"fully confirmed\" that the Arabs were urged to flee by their own leaders. I wrote to His Grace, asking for his evidence of such orders. I hold signed letters from him, with permission to publish, in which he has categorically denied ever alleging Arab evacuation orders; he states that no such orders were ever given. He says that his name has been abused for years; and that the Arabs fled through panic and forcible eviction by Jewish troops.\"\n\n2) Another common quote: \"The Economist, a frequent critic of the Zionists, reported on October 2, 1948: 'Of the 62,000 Arabs who formerly lived in Haifa not more than 5,000 or 6,000 remained. Various factors influenced their decision to seek safety in flight'. There is but little doubt that the most potent of the factors were the announcements made over the air by the Higher Arab Executive, urging the Arabs to quit\". Childers also examined this evidence: \n\"I decided to turn up the relevant (October 2) 1948 issue of the 'Economist.' The passage that has literally, gone around the world was certainly there, but I had already noticed one curious word in it. This was a description of the massacre at Deir Yassin as an \"incident.\" No impartial observer of Palestine in 1948 calls what happened at this avowedly nonbelligerent, unarmed Arab village in April, 1948, an \"incident\" ... \"Over 250 old men, women and children were deliberately butchered, stripped and mutilated or thrown into a well, by men of the Zionist Irgun Zvai Leumi. Seen in its place in the full `Economist' article, it was at once clear that Dr. Kohn's quotation was a second-hand account, inserted as that of an eye-witness at Haifa, by the journal's own correspondent who had not been in that city at the time. And in the rest of the same article, written by the Economist correspondent himself, but never quoted by Israel, the second great wave of refugees were described as \"all destitute, as the Jewish troops gave them an hour, in which to quit, but simultaneously requisitioned all transport.\"\n\n3) Other popular illustrations are examples of Arab leaders' calls for evacuation, such as: “The wholesale exodus was due partly to the belief of the Arabs, encouraged by the boasting of an unrealistic press and the irresponsible utterances of some of the Arab leaders that it could be only a matter of some weeks before the Jews were defeated by the armies of the Arab states, and the Palestinian Arabs enabled to re-enter and re-take possession of their country. -- Edward Atiyah (Secretary of the Arab League, London, The Arabs, 1955, p. 183)”. The quote by Atiya's offered in the lists is however incomplete, because it continues:\n\"But it (the wholesale Arab exodus) was also ... largely due to a policy of deliberate terrorism and eviction followed by the Jewish commanders in the areas they occupied, and reaching its peak of brutality in the massacre of Deir Yassin.<br>There were two good reasons why the Jews should follow such a policy. First, the problem of harbouring within the Jewish State a large and disaffected Arab population had always troubled them. They wanted an exclusively Jewish state, and the presence of such a population that could never be assimilated, that would always resent its inferior position under Jewish rule and stretch a hand across so many frontiers to its Arab cousins in the surrounding countries, would not only detract from the Jewishness of Israel, but also constitute a danger to its existence. Secondly, the Israelis wanted to open the doors of Palestine to unrestricted Jewish immigration. Obviously, the fewer Arabs there were in the country the more room there would be for Jewish immigrants. If the Arabs could be driven out of the land in the course of the fighting, the Jews would have their homes, their lands, whole villages and towns, without even having to purchase them.\n\n4) Perhaps the most frequent claim in the popular list is the exhortation by the Arab leadership by radio urging their followers to flee: \"On April 3, 1949, the Near East Broadcasting Station (Cyprus) said: “It must not be forgotten that the Arab Higher Committee encouraged the refugees' flight from their homes in Jaffa, Haifa and Jerusalem.” This was also cited by Cooke and Kimche in the \"Spectator Correspondence\", \nfor example (Cooke): \"In the United States, long before ever going to Israel, I had heard it emphasized over and over - by Israeli diplomats and visiting officials, in public speeches and in interviews — that the flight of Palestine Arabs was caused by (radio) broadcast (Arab leadership) orders. No other form of order was even mentioned. Erkine Childers and Walid Khalidi therefore checked archived transcripts of all Arab radio services monitored by the BBC and CIA in 1948, and discovered, \n[Childers, from his research into the BBC archives of radio traffic monitoring from Cyprus in 1948]: \"[T]here was not a single order, or appeal, or suggestion about evacuation from Palestine from any Arab radio station, inside or outside Palestine, in 1948,\" and that to the contrary (Arab) broadcasts gave flat orders to civilians to stay put.\nIn the same \"Spectator Correspondence\", Walid Khalidi supported Childers when he wrote: \n\"[Page 57]\"There are, in fact, two monitoring collections for 1948: one compiled by the BBC, the other by the CIA, both from Cyprus. There is considerable overlapping between these collections but in the interests of “checking” and “rejection” they should be studied separately. Both collections give detailed daily coverage of broadcasts from Arab capitals and of such Zionist radios as Haganab Radio (in Hebrew, English, and Arabic); the Free Hebrew Station (Stern) and the Voice of Fighting Zion (Irgun). I was pleased to see that the researchers of Mr. Childers in the British Museum confirm my own findings. I can report now that the complete CIA collection here in Princeton also overwhelming[y confirms and elaborates the results that Mr. Childers and I have arrived at independently of one another. Briefly, these are the following: (1) There are countless broadcasts by Zionist radios which indicate deliberate psychological warfare against the Arabs. (2) There is not one single instance of an Arab evacuation order or a hint of such an order. (3) There is an impressive stream of explicit Arab orders to the Palestinian\nArab civilians to hold their ground and remain in their towns and villages.\n\nMore evidence is presented by Walid Khalidi. In his article the author argues that steps were taken by Arab governments to prevent Palestinians from leaving, ensuring that they remain to fight, including the denial by Lebanon and Syria of residency permits to Palestinian males of military age on April 30 and May 6 respectively. He also notes that a number of Arab radio broadcasts urged the inhabitants of Palestine to remain and discussed plans for an Arab administration there.\n\nHis point is taken by Glazer (1980, p. 101), who writes that not only did Arab radio stations appeal to the inhabitants not to leave, but also that Zionist radio stations urged the population to flee, by exaggerating the course of battle, and, in some cases, fabricating complete lies.\n\nAccording to Glazer (1980, p. 105), among those who blame Arab news reports for the resulting panic flight are Polk et al. and Gabbay. They maintain that the Arabs overstated the case of Zionist atrocities, made the situation seem worse than it was and thus caused the population to flee. According to Glazer, Gabbay, in particular, has assembled an impressive listing of sources which describe Zionist cruelty and savagery. In this sense, Glazer (1980, p. 105) cites the work done by Childers who maintains that it was the Zionists who disseminated these stories, at the time when the Arab sources were urging calm. He cites carefully composed \"horror recordings\" in which a voice calls out in Arabic for the population to escape because \"the Jews are using poison gas and atomic weapons\". In the opinion of Glazer (1980, p. 108) one of the greatest weaknesses of the traditional Zionist argument, which attempts to explain the exodus as a careful, calculated and organized plan by various Arab authorities, is that it cannot account for the totally disorganized way in which the exodus occurred. As regards the evidence provided supporting the idea that Arab leaders incited the flight of Palestinian population, Glazer (1980, p. 106) states, \"I am inclined to prefer Childers[' research] because the sources he cites would have reached the masses... Gabbay's evidence, newspapers and UN documents, were designed for outside consumption, by diplomats and politicians abroad and by the educated and influential Arab decision makers. This is not the kind of material which would necessarily have been in the hands of the common Palestinian.\"\n\nFlapan further maintains that to support their claim that Arab leaders had incited the flight, Israeli and Zionist sources were constantly \"quoting\" statements by the Arab Higher Committee to the effect that \"in a very short time the armies of our Arab sister countries will overrun Palestine, attacking from the land, the sea, and the air, and they will settle accounts with the Jews.\" Though he accepts that some such statements were issued, he believes that they were intended to stop the panic that was causing the masses to abandon their villages and that they were issued as a warning to the increasing number of Arabs who were willing to accept partition as irreversible and cease struggling against it. From his point of view, in practice the AHC statements boomeranged and further increased Arab panic and flight. According to Aharon Cohen, head of Mapam's Arab department, the Arab leadership was very critical of the \"fifth columnists and rumormongers\" behind the flight. When, after April 1948, the flight acquired massive dimensions, Azzam Pasha, secretary of the Arab League, and King 'Abdailah both issued public calls to the Arabs not to leave their homes. Fawzi al-Qawuqji, commander of the Arab Liberation Army, was given instructions to stop the flight by force and to requisition transport for this purpose. Muhammad Adib al-'Umri, deputy director of the Ramallah broadcasting station, appealed to the Arabs to stop the flight from Janin, Tulkarm, and other towns in the Triangle that were bombed by the Israelis. On 10 May Radio Jerusalem broadcast orders on its Arab program from Arab commanders and the AHC to stop the mass flight from Jerusalem and its vicinity. Flapan considers that Palestinian sources offer further evidence that even earlier, in March and April, the Arab Higher Committee broadcasting from Damascus demanded that the population stay put and announced that Palestinians of military age were to return from the Arab countries. All Arab officials in Palestine were also asked to remain at their posts The author claims that such pleas had so little impact because they were outweighed by the cumulative effect of Zionist pressure tactics that ranged from economic and psychological warfare to the systematic ousting of the Arab population by the army.\n\nAccording to Flapan the idea that Arab leaders ordered the Arab masses to leave their homes in order to open the way for the invading armies, after which they would return to share in the victory, makes no sense at all. In his opinion, the Arab armies, coming long distances and operating in or from the Arab areas of Palestine, needed the help of the local population for food, fuel, water, transport, manpower, and information. The author cites a report of the Jewish Agency's Arab section from 3 January 1948, at the beginning of the flight, which in his view suggests that the Arabs were already concerned with the possibility of flight, \"The Arab exodus from Palestine continues, mainly to the countries of the West. Of late, the Arab Higher Executive has succeeded in imposing close scrutiny on those leaving for Arab countries in the Middle East. Flapan maintains that prior to the declaration of statehood, the Arab League's political committee, meeting in Sofar, Lebanon, recommended that the Arab states \"open the doors to ... women and children and old people if events in Palestine make it necessary, but that the AHC vigorously opposed the departure of Palestinians and even the granting of visas to women and children.\n\nChristopher Hitchens also expressed doubt as to the validity of claims of orders to leave from the Higher Arab Executive.\n\nMorris estimates that Arab orders accounts for at most 5% of the total exodus:\nArab officers ordered the complete evacuation of specific villages in certain areas, lest their inhabitants \"treacherously\" acquiesce in Israeli rule or hamper Arab military deployments... There can be no exaggerating the importance of these early Arab-initiated evacuations in the demoralization, and eventual exodus, of the remaining rural and urban populations. Based on his studies of seventy-three Israeli and foreign archives or other sources, Morris made a judgement as to the main causes for the Arab exodus from each of the 392 settlements that were depopulated during the 1948-1950 conflict (pages xiv to xviii). His tabulation lists \"Arab orders\" as being a significant \"exodus factor\" in only 6 of these settlements.\n\nFurthermore, in his comprehensive book on the Arab–Israeli conflict, \"Righteous Victims\", Morris wrote:\nIn some areas Arab commanders ordered the villagers to evacuate to clear the ground for military purposes or to prevent surrender. More than half a dozen villages ... were abandoned during these months as a result of such orders. Elsewhere, in East Jerusalem and in many villages around the country, the [Arab] commanders ordered women, old people, and children to be sent away to be out of harm's way... [T]he AHC and the Arab League had periodically endorsed such a move when contemplating the future war in Palestine.\n\nIn a 2003 interview with \"Haaretz\", Morris summed up the conclusions of his revised edition of \"The Birth of the Palestinian Refugee Problem\": \"In the months of April–May 1948, units of the Haganah were given operational orders that stated explicitly that they were to uproot the villagers, expel them and destroy the villages themselves. At the same time, it turns out that there was a series of orders issued by the Arab Higher Committee and by the Palestinian intermediate levels to remove children, women and the elderly from the villages.\"\n\nThe Arab National Committee in Jerusalem, following the 8 March 1948 instructions of the Arab Higher Committee, ordered women, children and the elderly in various parts of Jerusalem to leave their homes and move to areas \"far away from the dangers. Any opposition to this order ... is an obstacle to the holy war ... and will hamper the operations of the fighters in these districts.\"\n\nIn a 1959 paper, Walid Khalidi attributed the \"Arab evacuation story\" to Joseph Schechtman, who wrote two 1949 pamphlets in which \"the evacuation order first makes an elaborate appearance.\" Morris, too, did not find any blanket orders of evacuation.\n\n"}
{"id": "15331844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15331844", "title": "Cavalcade", "text": "Cavalcade\n\nA cavalcade is a procession or parade on horseback, or a mass trail ride by a company of riders. The focus of a cavalcade is participation rather than display. Often, the participants do not wear costumes or ride in formation. Often, a cavalcade re-enacts an important historical event and follows a long distance trail. A cavalcade may also be a pilgrimage.\nMany cavalcades involve ceremonial entries into and departures from towns and villages along the way. A small version of such a ceremonial entry is the \"grand entry\" that is traditional in many rodeos. Long-distance cavalcades may acquire more riders who join from populated places along its route.\n\nThe term cavalcade comes from the classical Latin word \"caballus\", used to describe a strong work horse. This developed into the word \"caballicare,\" \"to ride horseback,\" which in Italian became \"cavalcare.\" In Spanish the term for cavalcade is \"cabalgata.\"\n\nIn New Mexico, Philmont Scout Ranch includes a week-long cavalcade among its programs. The annual pilgrimage to El Santuario de Chimayó includes a cavalcade of classic cars on Good Friday. Traditionally, the pilgrimage had been made on foot. Today, in addition to traveling by car and foot, a few pilgrims ride horses. Columbus, New Mexico is the end point of the annual Cabalgata Binacional Villista (see #Chihuahua).\n\nIn Texas, numerous long-distance cavalcades occur annually in conjunction with the Houston Livestock Show and Rodeo; the oldest of these was established in 1952, creating a new tradition based on historic activities. A 110-mile cavalcade is held annually on the Chisholm Trail (paved roads) from Cuero to San Antonio in conjunction with the San Antonio Livestock Show and Rodeo.\n\nIn Sonora, cavalcades are regular annual events in March and October.\n\nOn 26 through 28 October 2007 the Governor of Sonora, Eduardo Bours, and the regional Cattlemen's Association led a cavalcade of approximately 7,000 cowboys who were primarily from the local area, the state of Sonora, some other Mexican states and several western U.S. states. The cavalcade was called \"Remontando El Río Sahuaripa 2007,\" and the route covered 61 kilometers. Beginning in Sahuaripa, the group traveled south following the river upstream, through the municipality of Arivechi, passing the banks of the Cajon de Onapa Reservoir Lake, and ending in the village of Guisamopa. The cowboys and horses were fed and supplied by an elaborate \"Chuck Wagon\" system. That cavalcade is the focal end stage of the \"Cabalgando por Sonora\" from the Río Sonora to the Sierra Alta.\n\nIn Chihuahua, two separate cavalcades commemorate the history of the Mexican Revolution and Francisco (Pancho) Villa.\n\nEach year in February and March, the \"Cabalgata Binacional Villista\" commemorates the 9 March 1916 invasion of the United States by Pancho Villa's men. The first cavalcade took place in 1999 and followed the same route that Pancho Villa used, coming from the Hacienda de San Jeronimo, Bachíniva. A handful of riders were expected but more than 125 showed up. The Cabalgata passed Namiquipa and Cruces, as during the original 1916 event. In 2008 the 9th cavalcade began on 27 February in Ciudad Madera with more than 200 riders. During the next 10 days, they traversed north through towns and villages in northern Mexico (Ignacio Zaragoza, Buenaventura, Galeana, Nuevo Casas Grandes, Casas Grandes, Colonia Graciano Sánchez, Janos, Ascensión, Seis de Enero) to Puerto Palomas de Villa, arriving on 7 March with a complement of 400 riders and twice as many crew.\n\nOn 8 March 100 riders continued across the United States–Mexico border 3 miles to the Pancho Villa State Park and Museum in the village of Columbus, New Mexico. From the border the Villistas were accompanied by 200 American riders. The 8th cavalcade in 2007 was larger, with 500 riders arriving in Puerto Palomas de Villa. The 7th cavalcade in 2006 was smaller but the arrival of the 100 Villistas at Pancho Villa State Park coincided with ceremonies attended by New Mexico Governor Bill Richardson, Chihuahua Governor José Reyes Baeza Terrazas, and many other dignitaries. The cavalcade in 2010 was the opening event of the centennial celebrations \"Tres Siglos, Tres Fiestas\" (Three Centuries, Three Fiestas).\n\nThe riders are received each night with a dinner, rodeo, music and dancing, and their horses are fed and watered. The growing popularity of the cavalcade presented increasing financial challenges for the communities along the route. In 2008, the community presidents formed an association, Presidentes Municipales de la Región Noroeste, to coordinate and manage the event.\n\nHorses traveling from Mexico to the United States normally are subject to quarantine of at least 3 days, but starting in 2006, a special 12-hour waiver was obtained for up to 100 horses (hence the limit of 100 Villistas). Before 2006, the Mexican horses were left behind in Mexico, and the Villistas rode American horses from the border to the park.\n\nThe 11th cavalcade in 2010 began on February 23 in Hacienda San Jeronimo, Bachíniva, repeating the historical original route, passing through Namiquipa, Cruces to Buenaventura. There the cavalcade joined the group coming from Madera, continuing together up to Columbus, New Mexico.\n\nEach year in July the \"Cabalgata Villista\" (also known as \"La Gran Cabalgata Villista\") commemorates the assassination of Francisco (Pancho) Villa on 20 July 1923 in Parral. The cavalcade was initiated by José Socorro Salcido Gómez in 1996. It travels to Parral from Chihuahua City, a distance of , led by municipal, state, and federal dignitaries. In general, its route passes through Satevó and\nValle de Zaragoza, with riders (\"jinetes\") joining the cavalcade along the way. Since 1996 the cavalcade has grown progressively larger; in 2007 3,000 riders participated. The 2008 cavalcade was still larger. In 2009, the cavalcade began with 500 riders departing from Chihuahua City. Participating villages, cities, and municipalities included Matamoros, Valle de Allende, San Francisco del Oro, Santa Bárbara, municipio de López, Zaragoza, El Tule, Huejotitán, Balleza, Coronado, and Jiménez.\n\nIn Coahuila, Nuevo León and Tamaulipas, on 12 March 2005 the fifth \"Cabalgata Interestatal\" (tri-state cavalcade) included 10,500 riders along a portion of its length.\n\nIn Guanajuato, a cavalcade pilgrimage occurs at Epiphany to the shrine of Cristo Rey.\n\nIn New Zealand, an annual Otago Goldfields Cavalcade is held. Different towns in Central Otago play host at the culmination of the cavalcade each year, with Cromwell, Ophir, and Clyde having been among the host towns. Some years the cavalcade's route follows the Dunstan Trail, a principal route of the Central Otago Gold Rush, from Clarks Junction near Middlemarch to the site of the former Dunstan goldfields. This route covers much the same journey as the Otago Central Rail Trail, though it is shorter and over far rougher terrain. The first re-enactment cavalcade was in 1991, from near Dunedin to Cromwell. More than 200 people (and 240 horses) took part in the 1991 cavalcade.\n\nIn Colombia, riding in cavalcades is a recreation enjoyed throughout the mountains. In Medellín, a cavalcade is an important part of the annual Festival of the Flowers.\n\n"}
{"id": "9427617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9427617", "title": "Charles Rogers (murder suspect)", "text": "Charles Rogers (murder suspect)\n\nCharles Frederick Rogers (December 30, 1921 disappeared June 23, 1965) was an American seismologist, pilot, and suspected murderer. Rogers disappeared in June 1965 after police discovered the dismembered bodies of his elderly parents in the refrigerator of the Houston home all three shared. The media later dubbed the crime \"The Icebox Murders\". Rogers has never been found and was declared dead \"in absentia\" in July 1975. He remains the only suspect in the murders, which are still considered unsolved.\n\nIn 1942, Rogers enrolled at Texas A&M University but later dropped out. He then enrolled at the University of Houston where he earned a Bachelor of Science degree in nuclear physics. During World War II, he was a pilot in the United States Navy and also served in the Office of Naval Intelligence. After the war, he worked as a seismologist for Shell Oil for nine years. He abruptly quit his job in 1957 without giving an explanation.\n\nFriends and associates of Rogers later said that he was highly intelligent and had a talent for finding gas, oil and gold for companies that he worked for. He also spoke seven languages and had an interest in ham radios. In the mid-1950s, Rogers joined the Civil Air Patrol where he reportedly met David Ferrie who was later named as a conspirator in the assassination of President John F. Kennedy by New Orleans District Attorney Jim Garrison.\n\nBy 1965, Rogers was unemployed and living with his elderly parents, Fred Christopher (born January 19, 1884) and Edwina Ivor Rogers (née Harman; born October 8, 1892), in the Montrose neighborhood of Houston. Described as \"reclusive\", Rogers was reported to have communicated with his parents by way of notes slipped under the door. Neighbors were unaware that Rogers lived with his parents as he generally left the home before dawn and did not return until after dark.\n\nOn June 23, 1965, two Houston police officers forced their way into the Rogers' home after Edwina's nephew Marvin became concerned about the couple when his phone calls to his aunt went unanswered for days. Upon entering the home, police found nothing unusual but noticed food sitting on the dining room table. One officer opened the refrigerator and found what appeared to be numerous cuts of washed, unwrapped meat neatly stacked on the shelves. The officer later recalled that he thought the meat was that of a butchered hog. As the officer was closing the door, he noticed two human heads visible through the clear glass of the vegetable bin. The heads were those of Fred and Edwina Rogers. What the officer initially thought was unwrapped cuts of hog meat were the couple's dismembered limbs and torsos. Police later discovered the couple's organs in a nearby sewer (the organs had been removed, cut up and flushed down the toilet) while other remains were never found. Police determined that Fred and Edwina Rogers had been killed on June 20, Father's Day. An autopsy showed that Fred Rogers was killed by blows to the head with a claw hammer. His eyes had been gouged out and his genitalia were removed. Edwina Rogers had been beaten and shot, execution style, in the head.\n\nPolice said that the bodies of Fred and Edwina Rogers were dismembered in the upstairs bathroom by a person \"with some knowledge of anatomy\". There was little blood in the house and it appeared it had been thoroughly cleaned after the murders. What little blood was found led to Charles Rogers' bedroom. There, police found a blood stained keyhole saw but no trace of Rogers. A search for Rogers was launched and a warrant was issued for him as a material witness to the crime but Rogers was never found.\n\nRogers' life was documented in the 1992 book \"The Man on the Grassy Knoll\" by John R. Craig and Philip A. Rogers. According to this work, Rogers was a CIA agent who likely impersonated Lee Harvey Oswald in Mexico City and, along with Charles Harrelson, was one of two shooters involved in the assassination of President John F. Kennedy. The authors allege that Rogers, Harrelson, and Chauncey Holt were the \"three tramps\" arrested in Dealey Plaza after the assassination and that Rogers murdered his parents because his mother was tracking his many telephone calls. In this account, Rogers fled to Guatemala. \"Publishers Weekly\" reviewed the book stating: \"The authors do a workmanlike job with their thesis, but the degree of poetic license, in terms of reconstructed dialogue and attributed thought, seems excessive here, and sourcing is virtually nonexistent. Assassination buffs, however, will welcome the book for its novelty value and its easy readability.\"\n\nIn 1975, a Houston judge declared Charles Rogers legally dead so his estate could be probated. The case still remains officially unsolved and Charles Rogers remains the only suspect.\n\nHouston forensic accountant Hugh Gardenier and his wife Martha have continued to investigate the case and concluded that Charles Rogers did kill his parents and was later killed in Honduras. While they have dismissed John R. Craig and Philip A. Rogers' claim that Charles Rogers was a CIA operative due to a lack of evidence, they admit that Rogers did have dealings with contract workers for the CIA when he worked as a seismologist. The Gardeniers believe that Rogers planned the murder of his parents for years because his father was abusive and both parents were \"devious con artists\". According to the Gardeniers, Fred Rogers worked as a bookie who regularly engaged in illegal activities such as gambling and fraud. They believe he continued abusing Charles into adulthood and began stealing large sums of money from him. After killing and dismembering his parents, the Gardeniers say that Rogers fled the United States for Mexico and was never found because he was aided by \"powerful friends\" he met through his ham radio hobby and while working for various oil and mining companies. They have theorized that Rogers eventually made his way to Honduras where he was killed over a wage dispute with miners. In October 2003, Redbud Publishing released \"The Ice Box Murders\", a novel written by Hugh and Martha Gardenier. According to a review in the \"Houston Press\": \"The Ice Box Murders is written as fact-based fiction and supposition. There are many unnamed characters in the book: various politicians and attorneys as well as the eyewitness who said he saw Rogers in Honduras after 1965.\" \"Publishers Weekly\" also referred to the novel as \"fact-based fiction\".\n\nThe house in which the murders took place was located at 1815 Driscoll Street. After the murders, the house remained empty and unsold. It was torn down in 1972. The lot remained empty until 2000 when condominiums were built on the lot.\n\nRogers is featured in two novels by James Ellroy: \"American Tabloid\" and \"The Cold Six Thousand\".\n\nThe murder case involving Rogers, as well as Hugh and Martha Gardenier looking into the case, is the subject of Episode 41 of the \"Criminal\" podcast, titled \"Open Case\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26382081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26382081", "title": "Chervona Ruta (festival)", "text": "Chervona Ruta (festival)\n\nChervona Ruta is a biennial music festival held in Ukraine. The name of the festival derives from the famous Ukrainian song \"Chervona Ruta\".\n\n"}
{"id": "57646099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57646099", "title": "Christian Rath", "text": "Christian Rath\n\nChristian Rath (October 22, 1831-February 14, 1920) was a German-American soldier and businessman. Among his duties as an officer in the U.S. Army was to act as the executioner for several of the conspirators in the assassination of Abraham Lincoln.\n\nRath was born to Johann Adam and Anna Marie (Schlee) Rath in Pfalzgrafenweiler, Landkreis Freudenstadt, Baden-Württemberg, in modern Germany. At the age of 18, he left home to participate in the revolutionary movement sweeping the region at that time.\n\nAt the age of 19, he emigrated to the United States. He served in the United States Navy for a brief time, and then settled in Jackson, Michigan.\n\nAfter the outbreak of the American Civil War, Rath enlisted in the 17th Michigan Volunteer Infantry Regiment.\n\nWhile detailed to the staff of Major General John F. Hartranft, Rath was assigned various duties related to the executions by hanging of Mary Surratt, Lewis Paine, David Herold, and George Atzerodt on July 7, 1865, due their guilty verdicts stemming from the assassination of Abraham Lincoln. These duties included making and hanging the nooses, giving the command for the prisoners to be hung, and arranging for their bodies to be put into coffins and buried.\n\nRath was discharged from the Union Army on July 19, 1865, twelve days after his participation in the execution, and returned to his home in Jackson, Michigan.\n"}
{"id": "25235806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25235806", "title": "Continuous journey regulation", "text": "Continuous journey regulation\n\nThe Canadian government's first attempt to restrict immigration was to pass an order-in-council on January 8, 1908, that prohibited immigration of persons who \"in the opinion of the Minister of the Interior\" did not \"come from the country of their birth or citizenship by a continuous journey and or through tickets purchased before leaving their country of their birth or nationality.\" In practice this applied only to ships that began their voyage in India, as the great distance usually necessitated a stopover in Japan or Hawaii. These regulations came at a time when Canada was accepting massive numbers of immigrants (over 400,000 in 1913 alone – a figure that remains unsurpassed to this day), almost all of whom came from Europe.\n\nDuring the first two decades of the 20th century, some provinces in Canada enacted laws limiting the civil rights of Indians, including the right to vote, hold public office, serve on juries, or practice as pharmacists, lawyers, and accountants.\nHowever, because India, like Canada, was part of the British Empire, Canadian authorities did not pass exclusion laws explicitly targeting those of Indian origin. The Imperial authorities in London had noted Indian resentment when Australia enacted immigration restrictions implicitly designed to restrict non-European immigration in 1901, based on similar legislation in South Africa. New Zealand had passed similar restrictive legislation in 1899.\n\nWhen Canada started making provisions to block immigration from India, London warned it to be cautious in its approach and to be aware that its actions might inflame nationalist fervour in India. With this in mind, Canadian immigration authorities decided to indirectly halt Indian immigration to the country.\n\nThe government's first attempt to restrict immigration from India was to pass an order-in-council on January 8, 1908, that prohibited immigration of persons who \"in the opinion of the Minister of the Interior\" did not \"come from the country of their birth or citizenship by a continuous journey and or through tickets purchased before leaving their country of their birth or nationality.\" In practice this applied only to ships that began their voyage in India, as the great distance usually necessitated a stopover in Japan or Hawaii. This was discriminatory to Indians who could not travel directly to Canada.\n\nThe new regulation was soon challenged with the arrival of the S.S. \"Monteagle\" in British Columbia in late February 1908. The ship carried more than 200 passengers, 105 of whom had boarded in Calcutta. A number of the passengers were ordered deported as they did not comply with the new regulation. The orders were challenged in court. Justice Clement of the Supreme Court of B.C. quashed the deportation orders on March 24, 1908, after he found the regulation to be invalid, as the Immigration Act did not authorize the delegation of decision making to the Minister of the Interior, as stated in the regulation.\n\nThe government responded by introducing an amendment to the Immigration Act, which expressly authorized a regulation \"to prohibit landing of any specified class of immigrants or any immigrants who have come to Canada otherwise than by continuous journey from the country of which they are natives or citizens and upon through tickets purchased in that country.\"\n\nThe amendment was enacted on April 10, 1908. The government passed an order-in-council under the amended Act on May 27, 1908. A further regulation was passed by an order-in-council on June 3, 1908, which stated that \"No immigrant of Asiatic origin shall be permitted to enter Canada unless in actual and personal possession in his or her own right of two hundred dollars, unless such person is a native or subject of an Asiatic country in regard to which special statutory regulations are in force or with which the Government of Canada has made a special treaty, agreement or convention.\"\n\nWhile neither regulation expressly referred to India, they effectively stopped immigration from India as the $200 cash requirement limit was a significant hurdle for most potential immigrants from India, and the continuous journey regulation was made effective by pressuring steamship companies not to provide direct service between Canada and India or to sell through tickets from Indian ports.\n\nCanadian Pacific did run a very lucrative shipping line between Vancouver and Calcutta. However, the Canadian government forced the company to stop this service. It was now impossible to come via continuous journey to Canada.\n\nA new, revised Immigration Act was enacted on May 4, 1910. It included provisions similar, though not the same as provisions in the 1906 Act, which authorized the continuous journey and $200 cash requirement regulations. The two 1908 regulations were reenacted on May 9, 1910, by orders-in-council P.C. 920 and P.C. 926.\n\nThe continuous journey regulation came under judicial review in 1911, in a case before the Supreme Court of B.C. involving Hussain Rahim, a known revolutionary from Bengal, India. On November 9, 1911, Mr. Justice Morrison issued a writ of habeas corpus to quash a deportation order made against Mr. Rahim. In granting the order, the judge commented that the 1910 continuous journey regulation was invalid, as its wording (copied from the 1908 regulation) did not conform with the enacting provision of Paragraph 38(a) of the 1910 Immigration Act.\n\nThe judgement did not result in any significant increase in attempts at immigration from India. Both regulations underwent judicial scrutiny again in November 1913, in the course of two cases before the Supreme Court of B.C. The first involved Bhagwan Singh Jakh, a known revolutionary from Punjab, India, who had entered Canada by falsely representing that he was a returning resident of Canada. The second case involved 39 passengers from India who arrived in Victoria, B.C., on October 17, 1913, on the ship \"Panama Maru\", and who were detained and ordered deported under the Immigration Act.\n\nWhile court proceedings were still pending, Jakh was forcefully deported on November 19, 1913, in the face of a writ of habeas corpus issued by the Supreme Court of B.C. On November 28, 1913, Mr. Justice Hunter quashed the deportation orders made against 35 of the 39 passengers (applications concerning four passengers were withdrawn when the case was heard), by finding that: (a) the $200 cash requirement regulation was invalid as its reference to \"Asiatic origin\" did not conform with Section 37 of the 1910 Act, which authorized regulations in respect of persons of the \"Asiatic race\"; and (b) the continuous journey regulation was invalid for the reasons given by Justice Morrison in the Rahim case.\n\nWord of Justice Hunter's decision spread abroad, with Indians resident in Canada urging others to come to Canada before the rules were changed again.\n\n\"The federal government's continuous-journey provision remained law until 1947, as did most BC anti-South Asian legislation. Because of community pressure and representations by the government of India, Canada allowed the wives and dependent children of South Asian Canadian residents to immigrate in 1919, and by the mid-1920s a small flow of wives and children had been established. This did not counter the effect of migration by South Asian Canadians to India and the US, which by the mid-1920s had reduced the South Asian population in Canada to about 1300.\"\n\nAs an appeal from Justice Hunter's decision was limited by law, the government responded quickly, by enacting new continuous journey and $200 cash requirement regulations on January 7, 1914, by orders-in-council P.C. 23 and P.C. 24. The new regulations conformed with the enacting provisions in the 1910 Act, in accordance with Justice Hunter's decision. The new regulations appeared to be immune from any further legal challenge.\n\nGurdit Singh Sandhu, from Amritsar, was a well-to-do government contractor in Singapore who was aware of the problems that Indians were facing in getting to Canada due to exclusion laws. Though Gurdit Singh was apparently aware of the January 1914 regulations when he chartered the \"Komagata Maru\", he continued with his purported goal of challenging the continuous journey regulation and opening the door for immigration from India to Canada. The passengers consisted of 340 Sikhs, 24 Muslims, and 12 Hindus, all British subjects.\n\nWhen the \"Komagata Maru\" arrived in Canadian waters, it was not allowed to dock. The government mobilised , a former Royal Navy ship under the command of Commander Hose, with troops from the 11th Regiment Irish Fusiliers of Canada, 72nd Regiment \"Seaforth Highlanders of Canada\", and the 6th Regiment \"The Duke of Connaught's Own Rifles\". In the end, only 24 passengers were admitted to Canada, since the ship had violated the exclusion laws, the passengers did not have the required funds, and they had not sailed directly from India. The ship was turned around and forced to depart on July 23 for Asia.\n\nThe \"Komagata Maru\" incident was widely cited at the time by Indian groups to highlight discrepancies in Canadian immigration laws. Further, the inflamed passions in the wake of the incident were widely cultivated by the Indian revolutionary organisation, the Ghadar Party, to rally support for its aims.\n\nIn response to calls for the government of Canada to address historic wrongs involving immigration and wartime measures, the Conservative government in 2006 created the community historical recognition program to provide grant and contribution funding for community projects linked to wartime measures and immigration restrictions and a national historical recognition program to fund federal initiatives, developed in partnership with various groups. The announcement was made on June 23, 2006, at the time Prime Minister Harper apologized in the House of Commons for the head tax against Chinese immigrants.\n\nOn May 23, 2008, the Legislative Assembly of British Columbia unanimously passed a resolution \"that this Legislature apologizes for the events of May 23, 1914, when 376 passengers of the \"Komagata Maru\", stationed off Vancouver harbour, were denied entry by Canada. The House deeply regrets that the passengers, who sought refuge in our country and our province, were turned away without benefit of the fair and impartial treatment befitting a society where people of all cultures are welcomed and accepted.\"\n\nOn August 3, 2008, Prime Minister Stephen Harper appeared at the 13th annual Ghadri Babiyan Da Mela (festival) in Surrey, B.C. to issue an apology for the \"Komagata Maru\" incident. He said, in response to the House of Commons motion calling for an apology by the government, \"On behalf of the government of Canada, I am officially conveying as prime minister that apology.\"\n\nSome members of the Sikh community were unsatisfied with the apology as they expected it to be made in Parliament. Minister of Citizenship and Immigration Jason Kenney said, \"The apology has been given and it won't be repeated,\" thus settling the matter for the federal government.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47785718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47785718", "title": "Dagestan in the Turkvision Song Contest", "text": "Dagestan in the Turkvision Song Contest\n\nDagestan will participate in the Turkvision Song Contest for the first time at the Turkvision Song Contest 2016 to be held in Turkey.\n\nOn 1 July 2016, it was confirmed that Dagestan would make their official Turkvision Song Contest début at the 2016 contest to be held in Turkey.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "657196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=657196", "title": "Eurovision Song Contest 2005", "text": "Eurovision Song Contest 2005\n\nThe Eurovision Song Contest 2005 was the 50th edition of the annual Eurovision Song Contest. It took place in Kiev, Ukraine, following Ruslana's win at the 2004 Contest in Istanbul, Turkey with the song \"Wild Dances\". The contest consisted of two shows: the semi-final and final, which took place on 19 and 21 May 2005, respectively, at the Palace of Sports. The shows were hosted by Maria Efrosinina and Pavlo Shylko. Thirty-nine countries participated, including the débuts of Bulgaria and Moldova and the return of Hungary, which was last represented in 1998.\n\nOrganizers hoped that this event would boost Ukraine's image abroad and increase tourism, while the country's new government hoped that it would also give a modest boost to the long-term goal of acquiring European Union membership.\n\nThe winner for 2005 was Greece with the song \"My Number One\" performed by Helena Paparizou, written by Christos Dantis and Natalia Germanou, both successful singer-songwriters in Greece. It scored 230 points, beating Malta into second place by a margin of 38 points. This was the first victory for Greece at the Eurovision Song Contest. Romania, Israel and Latvia rounded out the top five. The \"Big Four\" countries (France, Germany, Spain and United Kingdom) ended up as the \"Last Four\", all placing in the bottom four position of the scoreboard in the final.\n\nKiev is the capital and largest city of Ukraine, located in the north central part of the country on the Dnieper. The Palace of Sports, a multi-purpose indoor arena, was confirmed by officials as the host venue in September 2004. However, in order to host the contest, the facilities had been brought up to the standard required by the European Broadcasting Union (EBU).\n\nAt the end of December 2004, work began on the renovation \nof the hall, for which approximately 4 million francs were allocated. Renovation works were to be finished by 20 April, however, they were completed at the beginning of May. The arena could accommodate over 5,000 seated spectators. Additionally 2,000 press delegates were catered for.\n\nHotel rooms were scarce as the contest organisers asked the Ukrainian government to put a block on bookings they did not control themselves through official delegation allocations or tour packages: this led to many people's hotel bookings being cancelled.\n\nThe official logo of the contest remained the same from the 2004 contest with the country's flag in the heart being changed. Following Istanbul's 'Under The Same Sky', the slogan for the 2005 show was 'Awakening', which symbolised the awakening of the country and city ready to present itself to Europe. The postcards (short clips shown between performances) for the 2005 show illustrated Ukraine’s culture and heritage along with a more modern and industrial side to the country.\n\nThe hosts of the Eurovision Song Contest in Kiev were television presenter Maria \"Masha\" Efrosinina and DJ Pavlo \"Pasha\" Shylko. Previous winner Ruslana returned to the stage in Kiev to perform in the interval act and to interview the contestants backstage in the 'green room'. The famous Ukrainian boxers Vitali and Wladimir Klitschko opened the televoting, while a special trophy was presented to the winner by Ukraine's president, Viktor Yushchenko.\n\nAn official CD and DVD was released and a new introduction was an official pin set, which contains heart-shaped pins with the flags of all thirty-nine participating countries. The EBU also commissioned a book \"The Eurovision Song Contest – The Official History\" by British/American author John Kennedy O'Connor to celebrate the contest's fiftieth anniversary. The book was presented on screen during the break between songs 12 and 13 (Serbia and Montenegro, Denmark). The book was published in English, German, French, Dutch, Swedish, Danish and Finnish.\n\nDuring the semi final, there were a few volume falls in the sound, most notably during the Norwegian song, shortly after the intro. These were not fixed for the DVD release.\n\n2005 was no exception for scandals regarding the representatives from the countries participating. Germany's entrant in the Eurovision Song Contest rejected calls to quit after her producer admitted manipulating the country's pop charts with mass purchases of her single.\n\nGracia Baur defended her producer David Brandes, also behind Swiss entry Vanilla Ninja, and said she would go to the finals in Kiev despite complaints from other German singers. Bulgaria's debut was overshadowed by a scandal. The song \"Lorraine\" by Kaffe was accused of plagiarism. The song sounded too similar to another one released by Ruslan Mainov in 2001. There were also problems in Malta with the electricity supply during the contest, so TV viewers were unable to watch their national selection from the very beginning. There was a controversy regarding the Turkish entry: TRT got a false jury which led to the victory of the song Gülseren, which the 2003 winner Sertab Erener said was not the best choice. There were similar controversies in Macedonia which led to an eventual victory for Martin Vučić. The Ukrainian song had to be changed because it would bring a political message to the people, and EBU stated that no politics could be involved in the contest. The entry for Serbia and Montenegro was also overshadowed by a scandal and an accusation of plagiarism. Portugal's entry, \"Amar\", had very poor sound quality, with the female singer's microphone failing many times on stage.\n\nIt is also notable that the programme lasted just short of 3.5 hours. This was mainly due to the extremely long voting procedure, where 39 countries voted, reading out every single score. Many people, including United Kingdom commentator Terry Wogan, noticed this and commented about the marathon-like voting procedure, when Russia voted he stated \"How many more [countries] have we got to go? What time is it?\". Because the show overran so badly, the EBU changed the way the votes were announced in 2006 into a much shorter method, where only the top 3 scores were read out (the rest appeared on the scoreboard automatically).\n\nRuslana was also intended to be a presenter for the show, but was pulled out before the contest for numerous reasons, including her poor English skills. She opened the contest, and did do a few brief interviews in the green room at a few different stages in the event.\n\nIn the semifinal, the first qualifier was Hungary as shown on the card, but instead of showing Hungary's flag, it showed the bulgarian flag accidentally.\n\nThirty-nine countries participated in the 2005 Contest. Hungary returned to the contest after a six-year absence, last competing in 1998. Bulgaria and Moldova competed in the contest for the first time.\n\nConstantinos Christoforou represented Cyprus for the third time, having previously represented the nation at the 1996 contest as a solo artist and at the 2002 contest as part of the group One. Helena Paparizou previously represented Greece in 2001 as part of the duo Antique. Selma previously represented Iceland in 1999. Chiara previously represented Malta in 1998, and would return again in 2009. Anabel Conde, who represented Spain in 1995, returned as a backing vocalist for Andorra.\n\nThe semi-final was held on 19 May 2005 at 21:00 (CET). 25 countries performed and all 39 participants voted.\n\n\"Shaded countries qualified for the Eurovision Final\"\n\nThe finalists were:\n\nThe final was held on 21 May 2005 at 21:00 (CET) and was won by Greece.\n\n\"Countries in bold automatically qualified for the Eurovision Song Contest 2006 Final.\"\nNotes\n\nThe EBU introduced an undisclosed threshold number of televotes that would have to be registered in each voting country in order to make that country's votes valid. If that number was not reached, the country's backup jury would vote instead. In the semi-final this affected Monaco, Andorra and Albania, and Andorra, Monaco and Moldova in the final.\n\nBelow is a summary of all 12 points in the semi-final:\n\nBelow is a summary of all 12 points in the final:\n\n\nThe Marcel Bezençon Awards were first handed out during the Eurovision Song Contest 2002 in Tallinn, Estonia honoring \nthe best competing songs in the final. Founded by Christer Björkman (Sweden's representative in the 1992 Eurovision Song Contest and current Head of Delegation for Sweden) and Richard Herrey (member of the Herreys, Eurovision Song Contest 1984 winner from Sweden), the awards are named after the creator of the annual competition, Marcel Bezençon. The awards are divided into 3 categories; Press Award; Artistic Award; and Composer Award.\n\nThe Barbara Dex Award has been annually awarded by the fan website House of Eurovision since 1997, and is a humorous award given to the worst dressed artist each year in the contest. It is named after the Belgian artist, Barbara Dex, who came last in the 1993 contest, in which she wore her own self designed (awful) dress.\n\nThe order in which each country announced their votes was compiled by placing the countries that failed to qualify from the semi-final first in the running order they performed in during the semi-final, followed by the finalists which voted in the order they performed in during the final. The spokespersons are shown alongside each country.\n\nEurovision Song Contest: Kyiv 2005 was the official compilation album of the 2005 Contest, put together by the European Broadcasting Union and released by EMI Records and CMC International on 2 May 2005. The album featured all 39 songs that entered in the 2005 contest, including the semi-finalists that failed to qualify into the grand final. The original cover designed for the album was changed after 's withdrawal from the Eurovision Song Contest 2005 after announcing they would show advertisements over the Israeli entry. Had they entered, they would have been on track 4, disc 2 with the song \"Quand tout s'enfuit\" by Aline Lahoud. It was reported that sales of the 2005 Eurovision merchandise reached record-breaking levels.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46497657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46497657", "title": "Falla monument", "text": "Falla monument\n\nA Falla or monumento fallero is an artistic monument, usually large (three to twenty meters in height, sometimes higher) composed of figures called \"ninots\", which typically encircle one or more bigger central figures, called \"remates\". The fallas are placed in the streets during the Falles festival in Valencia (Spain), and in other towns with festivals inspired by it. The monument usually deals with a satirical subject connected with recent news or public controversies, and is covered in posters with words, verses and statements of a humorous nature. The monument is made with combustible materials (cardboard, wood, paper, clothing, expanded polystyrene, etc.) which are then burned in the streets after being on show for a few days.\n\nIn medieval Valencian the word \"Falla\" named the torches that were placed on top of watchtowers. This word is derived from Latin \"Facula\", torch. In the \"Llibre dels feits\", it is stated that the troops of King James I of Aragon carried \"Fallas\" to light their way.\n\nThe material origin of the \"monumento fallero\" was burning waste from carpenters and private homes. That is to say, it came from popular festivities and those of local guilds. It was often children who, on the eve of Saint Joseph's festivity, patron saint of the woodworkers guild, made the collection with things such as cattail chairs, old furniture, brooms or grass mats on the eve of Saint Joseph's festivity, patron saint of the woodworkers guild.\n\nIn this, the \"fallas\" festivity was not very different from the \"Hogueras de San Juan\" (for example those in Alicante), which are held throughout Europe or the bonfires of \"Hogueras de San Antonio\" also very typical of Valencia too.\n\nThe specific quality of the Fallas comes from the fact that it is a festival of particular neighbourhoods in which locals take the opportunity to criticize each other. With the creation of the first, very rudimentary, figures, came the burlesque, satirical posters. These criticisms were often directed at the municipal power, the church or the state.\n\nThis first stage of the festivity ranges from its uncertain beginnings to the last decades of the nineteenth century. In those days the \"ninots\" were made of waste, paper, wood and cardboard.\n\nIt is around the turn of the century when the first ninots with a cloth body and a head and hands made of wax appeared. The creation of these takes a lot more work so we can say that the figure of the \"fallero\" artist is born. This period lasts until the 1920s–1930s. There is at this stage a transformation in the festivity, with the appearance of mold cardboard figures.\n\nThis technique allowed for the building of higher monuments and it has come down almost to the present day, where it is still used, especially for smaller \"ninots\" and \"fallas\" of lower budgets. An advantage inside the disadvantage of the mold technique is the possibility of making the same \"ninot\" indefinitely. Therefore, the \"fallas\" with bigger budgets made original molds every year, which were used by others at a lower price the following years. Finally, from 1990s appeared the technique of expanded polystyrene or Styrofoam. Its lighter weight allows for more height in the monuments, and requires greater innovation in design.\n\nAs the monuments can be very high (often more than 10 meters), a specific technique has been developed to build them. The step is to prepare a draft and perhaps a scale model which must be approved by the \"comisión fallera\" (a committee formed by a group of people who support or finance a falla in a neighborhood of Valencia) who hires the artist.\n\nThe structure (scaffold) is constructed of wood and then all materials (cardboard, wax, cloth, etc.) are used. Though years ago they could use wire, currently these materials are prohibited by the \"Junta Central Fallera\" (which regulates and coordinates this festivity). \"Ninots\" are traditionally constructed from molds, which are usually made of plaster, and are filled with pulp, which are painted after drying.\n\nBut today, for convenience and ease of use, new materials are used, such as porespan, resin or fiberglass. These new materials make the monuments lighter and the \"Falla\" artists can take risks to create bold and innovative forms.\n\nMany people criticize these new materials, referred to as white cork, since the black smoke they give off during the burning of the monument means the combustion can't be seen clearly. The pollution that these new materials cause has also been criticised in comparison with the supposedly lighter pollution from traditional materials.\nThe Polytechnic University of Valencia carried out a study which seems to prove that, on the contrary, white cork is less polluting than the traditional materials. The student of \"Fallas\" Manuel Sanchis Ambrós carried out a study in which he assured that even though the combustion of cork gave off more heat, the combustion of wood and liquid materials used in making a wood structure is clearly more polluting. A few years later (2013), the same university went back to the traditional method of \"falla\" making in view of its greater environmental sustainability.\n\nDuring the 80's, it was, above all, the Valencia City Hall Square \"Falla\"—formerly known as the Valencian Community \"Falla\", it's the only one made entirely with public money and so, it doesn't participate in the official competition—that introduced a series of experimental changes. The cartoonist Sento Llobell and the designer Francis Montesinos, who dressed up \"ninots\", collaborated with the artist Manolo Martín. From this period, we recall \"Fallas\" such as that which recreated the façade of the Valencia CIty Hall or the crane that excavated the ground, finding thousands of objects.\n\nAlthough there’s not a single method to make a \"Falla\", traditionally it has been divided in the scenes at the bottom representing different situations, usually critical of an event, and bigger dolls making up the central body. Signs with some Valencian rhymes show the broad theme. The \"remate\", which represents the general theme of it, is usually a figure placed on the bigger one standing at the centre of the \"Falla\".\nThe special section \"Fallas\", the most important section, does not follow that exact pattern and usually have more than one \"remate\".\n\nThe themes of the \"Fallas\" have changed throughout history. In the beginning, they served to criticize what happened in the neighborhoods or dealt with issues of a very local nature. But, little by little, sometimes in a hidden manner, they started to criticize people who were important locally. Since the Spanish transition to democracy the Fallas have turned to more global topics. Nowadays they criticize political and social issues from each community, national or global point of view. However, there are a lots of Fallas which make use of their satirical purpose in order to criticize banal topics like TV shows, celebrities etc.\n\nEach Comisión fallera erects a large \"Falla\" and a children's one. The latter has small measurements and the ninots are smaller. Similarly, children's \"Fallas\" make use of their satirical and ironic nature in a less acute form.\n\nThe Fallas monuments receive different prizes according to the categories of the Fallas and the subject matter. The most valued prize of all categories is the First Prize of all Sections. The most important prizes of each section are the first prize of section, the first one in inventiveness and grace, and the first prize to the alternative Falla. Furthermore, Generalitat Valenciana, Diputación de Valencia, Bonfires of Saint John and Junta Gestora de la Magdalena, as well as other private entities also give their own prizes which often include a sum of money.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55461162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55461162", "title": "Fifth inauguration of Alexander Lukashenko", "text": "Fifth inauguration of Alexander Lukashenko\n\nFifth Inauguration of Alexander Lukashenko as the President of Belarus took place on November 6, 2015. The ceremony was held in the Independence Palace in Minsk for the first time. President Lukashenko was inaugurated in the presence of over 1,000 invited guests, who will include top government officials, members of both chambers of the parliament, all kinds of executives, and foreign guests.\n\nPresidential elections were held in Belarus on 11 October 2015. Incumbent president Alexander Lukashenko was re-elected for a fifth term in office, with 83.47% of the vote.\n\nPresident Lukashenko arrived to the Independence Palace to the tune of the Presidential fanfare. Then Lidia Yermoshina, the chairwoman of the Central Election Commission of Belarus ordered 3 soldiers from Honor Guard of the Armed Forces of Belarus to bring out the flag of Belarus, the presidential standard, and the Constitution of Belarus. Once the constitution was on the central tribune, Lukashenko then put his hand on the constitution and recited the oath. Once he officially took office, My Belarusy was then played in honor of the occasion. After the anthem of Belarus was played, Lukashenko then delivered a speech to the attendees. After finishing his address, the Lukashenko proceeded to the State Flag Square in the center of Minsk to attend a military ceceremony. The troops on the square then swore allegiance to the president and the country.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34803310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34803310", "title": "Formula Masters China", "text": "Formula Masters China\n\nFormula Masters China, FMCS () (previously known as Formula Pilota China), is a single-seater racing series based in Asia. The series was created in 2011 after the success of the Formula Abarth championship that was created a year before. \nEach event in the championship is normally run to a three-day schedule. It comprises two free practice sessions on the first day, one qualifying session and 45–55 km or 25-minute race on the second day, and a 45–55 km or 25-minute race on the third day. The grid for the second race is determined by the fastest lap in the first race; if drivers set equal times, priority will be given to driver who set the time first.\n\nEvents have been held predominantly on Chinese circuits at Guangdong, Ordos International Circuit, Shanghai, and Shanghai Tianma, as well as Sepang and Kuala Lumpur in Malaysia.\n\nAll the teams in Formula Pilota China use the same Tatuus FA010 chassis and a 1.4 litre FPT engine.\n\nSpecifications:\n\n\nAfter each race the points will be awarded to eligible drivers listed as classified finishers as follows:\nPoints are awarded after the completion of any Judicial or Technical procedures and after the Stewards have declared the results final. Only the best eleven race results are retained, any other points being discarded.\n\n"}
{"id": "2010495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010495", "title": "Gary McKinnon", "text": "Gary McKinnon\n\nGary McKinnon (born 10 February 1966) is a Scottish systems administrator and hacker who was accused in 2002 of perpetrating the \"biggest military computer hack of all time,\" although McKinnon himself states that he was merely looking for evidence of free energy suppression and a cover-up of UFO activity and other technologies potentially useful to the public. On 16 October 2012, after a series of legal proceedings in Britain, Home Secretary Theresa May withdrew her extradition order to the United States.\n\nMcKinnon was accused of hacking into 97 United States military and NASA computers over a 13-month period between February 2001 and March 2002, at his girlfriend's aunt's house in London, using the name 'Solo'.\n\nThe US authorities stated he deleted critical files from operating systems, which shut down the United States Army's Military District of Washington network of 2,000 computers for 24 hours. McKinnon also posted a notice on the military's website: \"Your security is crap\". After the September 11 attacks in 2001, he deleted weapons logs at the Earle Naval Weapons Station, rendering its network of 300 computers inoperable and paralyzing munitions supply deliveries for the US Navy's Atlantic Fleet. McKinnon was also accused of copying data, account files and passwords onto his own computer. US authorities stated the cost of tracking and correcting the problems he caused was over $700,000.\n\nWhile not admitting that it constituted evidence of destruction, McKinnon did admit leaving a threat on one computer:\nUS authorities stated that McKinnon was trying to downplay his own actions. A senior military officer at the Pentagon told \"The Sunday Telegraph\": \n\nMcKinnon was first interviewed by police on 19 March 2002. After this interview, his computer was seized by the authorities. He was interviewed again on 8 August 2002, this time by the UK National Hi-Tech Crime Unit (NHTCU).\n\nIn November 2002, McKinnon was indicted by a federal grand jury in the Eastern District of Virginia. The indictment contained seven counts of computer-related crime, each of which carried a potential ten-year jail sentence.\n\nMcKinnon remained at liberty without restriction for three years until June 2005 (until after the UK enacted the Extradition Act 2003, which implemented the 2003 extradition treaty with the United States wherein the United States did not need to provide contestable evidence), when he became subject to bail conditions including a requirement to sign in at his local police station every evening and to remain at his home address at night.\n\nIf extradited to the U.S. and charged, McKinnon would have faced up to 70 years in jail. He had also expressed fears that he could be sent to Guantanamo Bay.\n\nRepresenting McKinnon in the House of Lords on 16 June 2008, barristers told the Law Lords that the prosecutors had said McKinnon faced a possible 8–10 years in jail per count if he contested the charges (there were seven counts) without any chance of repatriation, but only 37–46 months if he co-operated and went voluntarily to the United States. U.S.-style plea bargains are not a part of English jurisprudence (although it is standard practice to reduce the sentence by one-third for a defendant who pleads guilty) and McKinnon's lawyers contended that in effect this was intimidation to force McKinnon to waive his legal rights. McKinnon also stated that he had been told that he could serve part of his sentence in the UK if he co-operated. He rejected the offer because the Americans would not guarantee these concessions.\n\nMcKinnon's barrister said that the Law Lords could deny extradition if there was an abuse of process: \"If the United States wish to use the processes of English courts to secure the extradition of an alleged offender, then they must play by our rules.\"\n\nThe House of Lords rejected this argument, with the lead judgement (of Lord Brown of Eaton-under-Heywood) holding that \"the difference between the American system and our own is not perhaps so stark as [McKinnon]'s argument suggests\" and that extradition proceedings should \"accommodate legal and cultural differences between the legal systems of the many foreign friendly states with whom the UK has entered into reciprocal extradition arrangements\".\n\nMcKinnon appealed to the European Court of Human Rights, which briefly imposed a bar on the extradition, but the request for an appeal was rejected.\n\nOn 23 January 2009, McKinnon won permission from the High Court to apply for a judicial review against his extradition. On 31 July 2009, the High Court announced that McKinnon had lost this appeal. McKinnon's legal team, solicitor Karen Todner and barrister Ben Cooper, applied for a judicial review into the Home Secretary's rejection of medical evidence, which stated that, when he could easily be tried in the UK, it was unnecessary, cruel and inhumane to inflict the further stress of removing him from his homeland, his family and his medical support network.\n\nOn 16 October 2012, then-Home Secretary Theresa May announced to the House of Commons that the extradition had been blocked, saying that:Mr McKinnon is accused of serious crimes. But there is also no doubt that he is seriously ill [...] He has Asperger's syndrome, and suffers from depressive illness. Mr McKinnon's extradition would give rise to such a high risk of him ending his life that a decision to extradite would be incompatible with Mr McKinnon's human rights.She stated that the Director of Public Prosecutions would determine whether McKinnon should face trial before a British court. On 14 December, the DPP, Keir Starmer, announced that McKinnon would not be prosecuted in the United Kingdom, because of the difficulties involved in bringing a case against him when the evidence was in the United States.\n\nIn January 2010 Mr Justice Mitting granted McKinnon a further judicial review of the decision of Home Secretary Alan Johnson to allow McKinnon’s extradition. Mitting distinguished two issues which were arguable, the first being whether psychiatrist Jeremy Turk's opinion that McKinnon would certainly commit suicide if extradited means that the Home Secretary must refuse extradition under section 6 of the Human Rights Act 1998 (which prevents a public authority from acting in a way incompatible with convention rights). The second was whether Turk's opinion was a fundamental change to the circumstances that the courts had previously considered and ruled upon. Mitting ruled that if the answer to both questions was \"Yes\", then it was arguable that it would be unlawful to allow the extradition.\n\nIn early November 2008, eighty British MPs signed an Early Day Motion calling for any custodial sentence imposed by an American court to be served in a prison in the UK. On 15 July 2009, many voted in Parliament against a review of the extradition treaty.\n\nIn November 2008, the rock group Marillion announced that it was ready to participate in a benefit concert in support of McKinnon's struggle to avoid extradition to United States. The organiser of the planned event was Ross Hemsworth, an English radio host. No date had been set as of November 2008. Many prominent individuals voiced support, including Sting, Trudie Styler, Julie Christie, David Gilmour, Graham Nash, Peter Gabriel, The Proclaimers, Bob Geldof, Chrissie Hynde, David Cameron, Boris Johnson, Stephen Fry, and Terry Waite. All proposed that, at least, he should be tried in the UK.\n\nIn August 2009, Glasgow newspaper \"The Herald\" reported that Scots entrepreneur Luke Heron would pay £100,000 towards McKinnon's legal costs in the event he was extradited to the US.\n\nIn a further article in \"The Herald\", Joseph Gutheinz, Jr., a retired NASA Office of Inspector General Senior Special Agent, voiced his support for McKinnon. Gutheinz, who is also an American criminal defence attorney and former Member of the Texas Criminal Justice Advisory Committee on Offenders with Medical and Mental Impairments, said that he feared Gary McKinnon would not find justice in the USA, because \"the American judicial system turns a blind eye towards the needs of the mentally ill\".\n\nWeb and print media across the UK were critical of the extradition. The \"Daily Mail\"' ran a campaign to prevent Gary McKinnon's extradition to the U.S.\n\nJanis Sharp, McKinnon's mother, stood as an independent candidate in the 2010 general election in Blackburn in protest against the sitting Labour MP Jack Straw, who was Foreign Secretary when the extradition treaty was agreed. She finished last out of eight candidates with 0.38% of the vote.\n\nOn 20 July 2010, Tom Bradby, ITN's political editor, raised the Gary McKinnon issue with U.S. President Barack Obama and Prime Minister David Cameron in a joint White House press conference who responded that they had discussed it and were working to find an 'appropriate solution'.\n\nIn August 2009, Pink Floyd's David Gilmour released an online single, \"Chicago - Change the World\", on which he sang and played guitar, bass and keyboards, to promote awareness of McKinnon's plight. A re-titled cover of the Graham Nash song \"Chicago\", it featured Chrissie Hynde and Bob Geldof, plus McKinnon himself. It was produced by long-time Pink Floyd collaborator Chris Thomas and was made with Nash's support.\n\nMcKinnon has admitted in many public statements that he obtained unauthorised access to computer systems in the United States including those mentioned in the United States indictment. He states his motivation, drawn from a statement made before the Washington Press Club on 9 May 2001 by \"The Disclosure Project\", was to find evidence of UFOs, antigravity technology, and the suppression of \"free energy\", all of which he states to have proven through his actions.\n\nIn an interview televised on the BBC's \"Click\" programme, McKinnon stated that he was able to get into the military's networks simply by using a Perl script that searched for blank passwords; in other words his report suggests that there were computers on these networks with the default passwords active.\n\nIn his interview with the BBC, he also stated of \"The Disclosure Project\" that \"they are some very credible, relied-upon people, all saying yes, there is UFO technology, there's anti-gravity, there's free energy, and it's extraterrestrial in origin and [they've] captured spacecraft and reverse engineered it.\" He said he investigated a NASA photographic expert's claim that at the Johnson Space Center's Building 8, images were regularly cleaned of evidence of UFO craft, and confirmed this, comparing the raw originals with the \"processed\" images. He stated to have viewed a detailed image of \"something not man-made\" and \"cigar shaped\" floating above the northern hemisphere, and assuming his viewing would be undisrupted owing to the hour, he did not think of capturing the image because he was \"bedazzled\", and therefore did not think of securing it with the screen capture function in the software at the point when his connection was interrupted.\n\nIn 2006, a Freedom of Information Act request was filed with NASA for all documents pertaining to Gary McKinnon. NASA's documents consisted of printed news articles from the Slashdot site, but no other related documents. This was consistent with NASA employees browsing internet articles about Gary McKinnon; the records of such browsing activity are in the public domain.\n\nThe FOIA documents have been uploaded to the Internet for review and can be downloaded.\n\nOn 12 December 2007, BBC Radio 4 broadcast a 45-minute radio play about the case, \"The McKinnon Extradition\" by John Fletcher. It was re-broadcast on 2 September 2008. It was directed by Pete Atkin and produced by David Morley.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2878273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2878273", "title": "Great Fire", "text": "Great Fire\n\nA number of incidents have been called the Great Fire or Great (place name) Fire. There have also been various books, albums and organizations with this name\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2085758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2085758", "title": "Harvest festival", "text": "Harvest festival\n\nA harvest festival is an annual celebration that occurs around the time of the main harvest of a given region\n. Given the differences in climate and crops around the world, harvest festivals can be found at various times at different places. Harvest festivals typically feature feasting, both family and public, with foods that are drawn from crops that come to maturity around the time of the festival. Ample food and freedom from the necessity to work in the fields are two central features of harvest festivals: eating, merriment, contests, music and romance are common features of harvest festivals around the world.\n\nIn North America, Canada and the US each have their own Thanksgiving celebrations in October and November.\n\nIn Britain, thanks have been given for successful harvests since pagan times. Harvest festival is traditionally held on the Sunday near or of the Harvest Moon. This is the full Moon that occurs closest to the autumn equinox (22 or 23 September). The celebrations on this day usually include singing hymns, praying, and decorating churches with baskets of fruit and food in the festival known as Harvest Festival, Harvest Home, Harvest Thanksgiving or Harvest Festival of Thanksgiving.\n\nIn British and English-Caribbean churches, chapels and schools, and some Canadian churches, people bring in produce from the garden, the allotment or farm. The food is often distributed among the poor and senior citizens of the local community, or used to raise funds for the church, or charity.\n\nHarvest festivals in Asia include the Chinese Mid-Autumn Festival (中秋節), one of the most widely spread harvest festivals in the world. In Iran Mehrgan was celebrated in an extravagant style at Persepolis. Not only was it the time for harvest, but it was also the time when the taxes were collected. Visitors from different parts of the Persian Empire brought gifts for the king, all contributing to a lively festival. In India, Makar Sankranti, Thai Pongal, Uttarayana, Lohri, and Magh Bihu or Bhogali Bihu in January, Holi in February–March, Vaisakhi in April and Onam in August–September are a few important harvest festivals.\n\nJews celebrate the week-long harvest festival of Sukkot in the autumn. Observant Jews build a temporary hut or shack called a sukkah, and spend the week living, eating, sleeping, and praying inside of it. A sukkah has only three walls and a semi-open roof to allow the elements to enter. It is reminiscent of the structures Israelite farmers would live in during the harvest, at the end of which they would bring a portion to the Temple in Jerusalem.\n\nAn early harvest festival used to be celebrated at the beginning of the harvest season on 1 August and was called Lammas, meaning 'loaf Mass'. The Latin prayer to hallow the bread is given in the Durham Ritual. Farmers made loaves of bread from the fresh wheat crop. These were given to the local church as the Communion bread during a special service thanking God for the harvest.\n\nBy the sixteenth century a number of customs seem to have been firmly established around the gathering of the final harvest. They include the reapers accompanying a fully laden cart; a tradition of shouting \"Hooky, hooky\"; and one of the foremost reapers dressing extravagantly, acting as 'lord' of the harvest and asking for money from the onlookers. A play by Thomas Nashe, \"Summer's Last Will and Testament\", (first published in London in 1600 but believed from internal evidence to have been first performed in October 1592 at Croydon) contains a scene which demonstrates several of these features. There is a character personifying harvest who comes on stage attended by men dressed as reapers; he refers to himself as their \"master\" and ends the scene by begging the audience for a \"largesse\". The scene is clearly inspired by contemporary harvest celebrations, and singing and drinking feature largely. The stage instruction reads:\n\n<poem>\"Enter Haruest with a sythe on his neck, & all his reapers with siccles, and a great black bowle with a posset in it borne before him: they come in singing.\"</poem>\nThe song which follows may be an actual harvest song, or a creation of the author's intended to represent a typical harvest song of the time:\n\n<poem>\nMerry, merry, merry, cheary, cheary, cheary,\nTrowle the black bowl to me ;\nHey derry, derry, with a poupe and a lerry,\nIle trowle it again to the:\n\nHooky, hooky, we have shorn,\nAnd we have bound,\nAnd we have brought Harvest\nHome to town.\n</poem>\n\nThe shout of \"hooky, hooky\" appears to be one traditionally associated with the harvest celebration. The last verse is repeated in full after the character Harvest remarks to the audience \"Is your throat cleare to helpe us sing \"hooky, hooky\"?\" and a stage direction adds, \"Heere they all sing after him\". Also, in 1555 in Archbishop Parker's translation of Psalm 126 occur the lines:\n\n<poem>\n\"He home returnes: wyth hocky cry,\nWith sheaues full lade abundantly.\"\n</poem>\n\nIn some parts of England \"Hoakey\" or \"Horkey\" (the word is spelled variously) became the accepted name of the actual festival itself:\n\n<poem>\n\"Hoacky is brought Home with hallowing\nBoys with plum-cake The Cart following\".\n</poem>\n\nAnother widespread tradition was the distribution of a special cake to the celebrating farmworkers. A prose work of 1613 refers to the practice as predating the Reformation. Describing the character of a typical farmer, it says:\n\n<poem>\"Rocke Munday..Christmas Eve, the hoky, or seed cake, these he yeerely keepes, yet holds them no reliques of popery.\"</poem>\n\nEarly English settlers took the idea of harvest thanksgiving to North America. The most famous one is the harvest Thanksgiving held by the Pilgrims in 1621.\n\nNowadays the festival is held at the end of harvest, which varies in different parts of Britain. Sometimes neighbouring churches will set the Harvest Festival on different Sundays so that people can attend each other's thanksgivings.\n\nUntil the 20th century most farmers celebrated the end of the harvest with a big meal called the harvest supper, to which all who had helped in the harvest were invited. It was sometimes known as a \"Mell-supper\", after the last patch of corn or wheat standing in the fields which was known as the \"Mell\" or \"Neck\". Cutting it signified the end of the work of harvest and the beginning of the feast. There seems to have been a feeling that it was bad luck to be the person to cut the last stand of corn. The farmer and his workers would race against the harvesters on other farms to be first to complete the harvest, shouting to announce they had finished. In some counties the last stand of corn would be cut by the workers throwing their sickles at it until it was all down, in others the reapers would take it in turns to be blindfolded and sweep a scythe to and fro until all of the Mell was cut down.\n\nSome churches and villages still have a Harvest Supper. The modern British tradition of celebrating Harvest Festival in churches began in 1843, when the Reverend Robert Hawker invited parishioners to a special thanksgiving service at his church at Morwenstow in Cornwall. Victorian hymns such as \"We plough the fields and scatter\", \"Come, ye thankful people, come\" and \"All things bright and beautiful\" but also Dutch and German harvest hymns in translation helped popularise his idea of harvest festival, and spread the annual custom of decorating churches with home-grown produce for the Harvest Festival service. On 8 September 1854 the Revd Dr William Beal, Rector of Brooke, Norfolk, held a Harvest Festival aimed at ending what he saw as disgraceful scenes at the end of harvest, and went on to promote 'harvest homes' in other Norfolk villages. Another early adopter of the custom as an organised part of the Church of England calendar was Rev Piers Claughton at Elton, Huntingdonshire in or about 1854.\n\nAs British people have come to rely less heavily on home-grown produce, there has been a shift in emphasis in many Harvest Festival celebrations. Increasingly, churches have linked Harvest with an awareness of and concern for people in the developing world for whom growing crops of sufficient quality and quantity remains a struggle. Development and Relief organisations often produce resources for use in churches at harvest time which promote their own concerns for those in need across the globe.\n\nIn the early days, there were ceremonies and rituals at the beginning as well as at the end of the harvest.\n\n\"Encyclopædia Britannica\" traces the origins to \"the animistic belief in the corn [grain] spirit or corn mother.\" In some regions the farmers believed that a spirit resided in the last sheaf of grain to be harvested. To chase out the spirit, they beat the grain to the ground. Elsewhere they wove some blades of the cereal into a \"corn dolly\" that they kept safe for \"luck\" until seed-sowing the following year. Then they plowed the ears of grain back into the soil in hopes that this would bless the new crop.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44037964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44037964", "title": "Hawaa", "text": "Hawaa\n\nHawaa (meaning \"Eve\" in English) is an Arabic language weekly women's magazines published in Cairo, Egypt. The magazine is modelled by other women's magazines in Arab countries. It was Egypt's first women's magazine, founded in 1954.\n\n\"Hawaa\" was first published in 1954. The founder was Amina Al Said (1914–1995), an Egyptian journalist and feminist. The publisher is Dar Al Hilal.\n\n\"Hawaa\" is published weekly and features news on health and beauty, family affairs, fashion, adornment and home management using a feminist perspective. The magazine targets not only women but also men.\n\nAmina Al Said, its founder, was the first editor-in-chief of the weekly and served in the post from its inception in 1954 to 1969. She was also the first female editor-in-chief and the first female chair of a publishing house, namely, Dar Al Hilal, in Egypt. She published a weekly column in \"Hawaa\" until her death in 1995.\n\nIqbal Barakah was the long-term editor-in-chief of the magazine who was appointed to the post in July 1993. On 28 June 2014 Magda Mahmoud became the editor-in-chief of the magazine.\n\nEgyptian intellectual Latifa al-Zayyat was the contributor of \"Hawaa\" from 1965 to 1968.\n\nThe circulation of \"Hawaa\" was 175,000 copies in 1954. It became 200,000 copies before 1967 and was about 175,000 copies between 1967 and 1970. The circulation of the magazine in 2000 was 150,000 copies. The magazine also enjoyed high circulation levels abroad among all Arabic publications.\n\nList of magazines in Egypt\n\n"}
{"id": "1068282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1068282", "title": "Her Majesty's Theatre", "text": "Her Majesty's Theatre\n\nHer Majesty's Theatre is a West End theatre situated on Haymarket in the City of Westminster, London. The present building was designed by Charles J. Phipps and was constructed in 1897 for actor-manager Herbert Beerbohm Tree, who established the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art at the theatre. In the early decades of the 20th century, Tree produced spectacular productions of Shakespeare and other classical works, and the theatre hosted premieres by major playwrights such as George Bernard Shaw, J. M. Synge, Noël Coward and J. B. Priestley. Since the First World War, the wide stage has made the theatre suitable for large-scale musical productions, and the theatre has specialised in hosting musicals. The theatre has been home to record-setting musical theatre runs, notably the First World War sensation \"Chu Chin Chow\" and the current production, Andrew Lloyd Webber's \"The Phantom of the Opera\", which has played continuously at Her Majesty's since 1986.\n\nThe theatre was established by architect and playwright John Vanbrugh, in 1705, as the Queen's Theatre. Legitimate drama unaccompanied by music was prohibited by law in all but the two London patent theatres, and so this theatre quickly became an opera house. Between 1711 and 1739, more than 25 operas by George Frideric Handel premiered here. In the early 19th century, the theatre hosted the opera company that was to move to the Theatre Royal, Covent Garden, in 1847, and presented the first London performances of Mozart's \"La clemenza di Tito\", \"Così fan tutte\" and \"Don Giovanni\". It also hosted the Ballet of her Majesty's Theatre in the mid-19th century, before returning to hosting the London premieres of such operas as Bizet's \"Carmen\" and Wagner's \"Ring Cycle\".\n\nThe name of the theatre changes with the sex of the monarch. It first became the King's Theatre in 1714 on the accession of George I. It was renamed Her Majesty's Theatre in 1837. Most recently, the theatre was known as His Majesty's Theatre from 1901 to 1952, and it became Her Majesty's on the accession of Elizabeth II. The theatre's capacity is 1,216 seats, and the building was Grade II* listed by English Heritage in 1970. LW Theatres has owned the building since 2000. The land beneath it is on a long-term lease from the Crown Estate.\n\nThe end of the 17th century was a period of intense rivalry amongst London's actors, and in 1695 there was a split in the United Company, who had a monopoly on the performance of drama at their two theatres. Dramatist and architect John Vanbrugh saw this as an opportunity to break the duopoly of the patent theatres, and in 1703 he acquired a former stable yard, at a cost of £2,000, for the construction of a new theatre on the Haymarket. In the new business, he hoped to improve the share of profits that would go to playwrights and actors. He raised the money by subscription, probably amongst members of the Kit-Cat Club:\n\nTo recover them [that is, Thomas Betterton's company], therefore, to their due Estimation, a new Project was form'd of building them a stately theatre in the Hay-Market, by Sir John Vanbrugh, for which he raised a Subscription of thirty Persons of Quality, at one hundred Pounds each, in Consideration whereof every Subscriber, for his own Life, was to be admitted to whatever Entertainments should be publickly perform'd there, without farther Payment for his Entrance.\n\n—John Vanbrugh's notice of subscription for the new theatre\nHe was joined in the enterprise by his principal associate and manager William Congreve and an actors' co-operative led by Thomas Betterton.\n\nThe theatre provided the first alternative to the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane, built in 1663 and the Lincoln's Inn, founded in 1660 (forerunner of the Theatre Royal, Covent Garden, built in 1728). The theatre's site is the second oldest such site in London that remains in use. These three post-interregnum theatres defined the shape and use of modern theatres.\n\nThe land for the theatre was held on a lease renewable in 1740 and was ultimately owned, as it is today, by the Crown Estate. Building was delayed by the necessity of acquiring the street frontage, and a three bay entrance led to a brick shell long and wide. Colley Cibber described the audience fittings as lavish but the facilities for playing poor.\n\nVanbrugh and Congreve received Queen Anne's authority to form \"a Company of Comedians\" on 14 December 1704, and the theatre opened as the Queen's Theatre on 9 April 1705 with imported Italian singers in \"Gli amori d'Ergasto\" (\"The Loves of Ergasto\"), an opera by Jakob Greber, with an epilogue by Congreve. This was the first Italian opera performed in London. The opera failed, and the season struggled on through May, with revivals of plays and operas. The first new play performed was \"The Conquest of Spain\" by Mary Pix. The theatre proved too large for actors' voices to carry across the auditorium, and the first season was a failure. Congreve departed, Vanbrugh bought out his other partners, and the actors reopened the Lincoln's Inn Fields' theatre in the summer. Although early productions combined spoken dialogue with incidental music, a taste was growing amongst the nobility for Italian opera, which was completely sung, and the theatre became devoted to opera. As he became progressively more involved in the construction of Blenheim Palace, Vanbrugh's management of the theatre became increasingly chaotic, showing \"numerous signs of confusion, inefficiency, missed opportunities, and bad judgement\". On 7 May 1707, experiencing mounting losses and running costs, Vanbrugh was forced to sell a lease on the theatre for fourteen years to Owen Swiny at a considerable loss. In December of that year, the Lord Chamberlain's Office ordered that \"all Operas and other Musicall presentments be performed for the future only at Her Majesty's Theatre in the Hay Market\" and forbade the performance of further non-musical plays there.\nAfter 1709, the theatre was devoted to Italian opera and was sometimes known informally as the Haymarket Opera House. Young George Frideric Handel produced his English début, \"Rinaldo\", on 24 February 1711 at the theatre, featuring the two leading castrati of the era, Nicolo Grimaldi and Valentino Urbani. This was the first Italian opera composed specifically for the London stage. The work was well received, and Handel was appointed resident composer for the theatre, but losses continued, and Swiney fled abroad to escape his creditors. John James Heidegger took over the management of the theatre and, from 1719, began to extend the stage through arches into the houses to the south of the theatre. A \"Royal Academy of Music\" was formed by subscription from wealthy sponsors, including the Prince of Wales, to support Handel's productions at the theatre. Under this sponsorship, Handel conducted a series of more than 25 of his original operas, continuing until 1739 Handel was also a partner in the management with Heidegger from 1729 to 1734, and he contributed to incidental music for theatre, including for a revival of Ben Jonson's \"The Alchemist\", opening on 14 January 1710.\n\nOn the accession of George I in 1714, the theatre was renamed the King's Theatre and remained so named during a succession of male monarchs who occupied the throne. At this time only the two patent theatres were permitted to perform serious drama in London, and lacking letters patent, the theatre remained associated with opera. In 1762, Johann Christian Bach travelled to London to premiere three operas at the theatre, including \"Orione\" on 19 February 1763. This established his reputation in England, and he became music master to Queen Charlotte.\nIn 1778, the lease for the theatre was transferred from James Brook to Thomas Harris, stage manager of the Theatre Royal, Covent Garden, and to the playwright Richard Brinsley Sheridan for £22,000. They paid for the remodelling of the interior by Robert Adam in the same year. In November 1778, \"The Morning Chronicle\" reported that Harris and Sheridan had\n\n... at a considerable expence, almost entirely new built the audience part of the house, and made a great variety of alterations, part of which are calculated for the rendering the theatre more light, elegant and pleasant, and part for the ease and convenience of the company. The sides of the frontispiece are decorated with two figures painted by Gainsborough, which are remarkably picturesque and beautiful; the heavy columns which gave the house so gloomy an aspect that it rather resembled a large mausoleum or a place for funeral dirges, than a theatre, are removed.\n\n—November 1778, \"The Morning Chronicle\"\nThe expense of the improvements was not matched by the box office receipts, and the partnership dissolved, with Sheridan buying out his partner with a mortgage on the theatre of £12,000 obtained from the banker Henry Hoare.\n\nOne member of the company, Giovanni Gallini, had made his début at the theatre in 1753 and had risen to the position of dancing master, gaining an international reputation. Gallini had tried to buy Harris' share but had been rebuffed. He now purchased the mortgage. Sheridan quickly became bankrupt after placing the financial affairs of the theatre in the hands of William Taylor, a lawyer. The next few years saw a struggle for control of the theatre and Taylor bought Sheridan's interest in 1781. In 1782 the theatre was remodelled by Michael Novosielski, formerly a scene painter at the theatre. In May 1783, Taylor was arrested by his creditors, and a forced sale ensued, with Harris purchasing the lease and much of the effects. Further legal action transferred the interests in the theatre to a board of trustees, including Novosielski. The trustees acted with a flagrant disregard for the needs of the theatre or other creditors, seeking only to enrich themselves, and in August 1785 the Lord Chamberlain took over the running of the enterprise, in the interests of the creditors. Gallini, meanwhile, had become manager. In 1788, the Lord Chancellor observed \"that there appeared in all the proceedings respecting this business, a wish of distressing the property, and that it would probably be consumed in that very court to which ... [the interested parties] seemed to apply for relief\". Performances suffered, with the box receipts taken by Novosielski, rather than given to Gallini to run the house. Money continued to be squandered on endless litigation or was misappropriated. Gallini tried to keep the theatre going, but he was forced to employ amateur performers. \"The World\" described a performance as follows: \"... the dance, if such it can be called was like the movements of heavy cavalry. It was hissed very abundantly.\" At other times, Gallini had to defend himself against a dissatisfied audience who charged the stage and destroyed the fittings, as the company ran for their lives.\n\nThe theatre burnt down on 17 June 1789 during evening rehearsals, and the dancers fled the building as beams fell onto the stage. The fire had been deliberately set on the roof, and Gallini offered a reward of £300 for capture of the culprit. With the theatre destroyed, each group laid their own plans for a replacement. Gallini obtained a licence from the Lord Chamberlain to perform opera at the nearby Little Theatre, and he entered into a partnership with R. B. O'Reilly to obtain land in Leicester Fields for a new building, which too would require a licence. The two quarrelled, and each then planned to wrest control of the venture from the other. The authorities refused to grant either of them a patent for Leicester Fields, but O'Reilly was granted a licence for four years to put on opera at the Oxford Street Pantheon. This too, would burn to the ground in 1792. Meanwhile, Taylor reached an agreement with the creditors of the King's Theatre and attempted to purchase the remainder of the lease from Edward Vanbrugh, but this was now promised to O'Reilly. A further complication arose as the theatre needed to expand onto adjacent land that now came into the possession of a Taylor supporter. The scene was set for a further war of attrition between the lessees, but at this point O'Reilly's first season at the Pantheon failed miserably, and he fled to Paris to avoid his creditors.\n\nBy 1720, Vanbrugh's direct connection with the theatre had been terminated, but the leases and rents had been transferred to both his own family and that of his wife's through a series of trusts and benefices, with Vanbrugh himself building a new home in Greenwich. After the fire, the Vanbrugh family's long association with the theatre was terminated, and all their leases were surrendered by 1792.\n\nTaylor completed a new theatre on the site in 1791. Michael Novosielski had again been chosen as architect for the theatre on an enlarged site, but the building was described by Malcolm in 1807 as\n\nfronted by a stone basement in rustic work, with the commencement of a very superb building of the Doric order, consisting of three pillars, two windows, an entablature, pediment, and balustrade. This, if it had been continued, would have contributed considerably to the splendour of London; but the unlucky fragment is fated to stand as a foil to the vile and absurd edifice of brick pieced to it, which I have not patience to describe.\n\n—The critic Malcolm, quoted in \"Old and New London\" (1878)\nThe Lord Chamberlain, a supporter of O'Reilly, refused a performing licence to Taylor. The theatre opened on 26 March 1791 with a private performance of song and dance entertainment, but was not allowed to open to the public. The new theatre was heavily indebted and spanned separate plots of land that were leased to Taylor by four different owners on differing terms of revision. As a later manager of the theatre wrote, \"In the history of property, there has probably been no parallel instance wherein the legal labyrinth has been so difficult to thread.\" Meetings were held at Carlton House and Bedford House attempting to reconcile the parties. On 24 August 1792 a General Opera Trust Deed was signed by the parties. The general management of the theatre was to be entrusted to a committee of noblemen, appointed by the Prince of Wales, who would then appoint a general manager. Funds would be disbursed from the profits to compensate the creditors of both the King's Theatre and the Pantheon. The committee never met, and management devolved to Taylor.\n\nThe first public performance of opera in the new theatre took place on 26 January 1793, the dispute with the Lord Chamberlain over the licence having been settled. This theatre was, at that time, the largest in England, and it became the home of the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane company while that company's home theatre was itself rebuilt between 1791–94.\n\nFrom 1793, seven small houses at the east side of the theatre fronting on the Haymarket were demolished and replaced by a large concert room. It was in this room that Joseph Haydn gave a series of concerts, under the sponsorship of Johann Peter Salomon, on his second visit to London in 1794–95. He presented his own symphonies, some of them premieres, conducted by himself, and was paid £50 each for 20 concerts. He was feted in London and returned to Vienna in May 1795 with 12,000 florins.\nWith the departure of the Drury Lane company in 1794, the theatre returned to opera, hosting the first London performances of Mozart's \"La clemenza di Tito\" in 1806, \"Così fan tutte\" and \"Die Zauberflöte\" in 1811, and \"Don Giovanni\" in 1816. Between 1816 and 1818, John Nash and George Repton made alterations to the façade and increased the capacity of the auditorium to 2,500. They also added a shopping arcade, called the Royal Opera Arcade, which has survived fires and renovations and still exists. It runs along the rear of the theatre. In 1818–20, the British premieres of Gioachino Rossini's operas \"Il barbiere di Siviglia, Elisabetta, regina d'Inghilterra, L'italiana in Algeri, La Cenerentola\" and \"Tancredi\" took place, and the theatre became known as the Italian Opera House, Haymarket by the 1820s.\n\nIn 1797, he was elected as member of Parliament for Leominster, a position that gave him immunity from his creditors. When that parliament dissolved in 1802, he fled to France. Later, he returned, and was member of Parliament for Barnstaple from 1806 to 1812 while continuing his association with the theatre. Taylor paid little of the agreed receipts to performers, or composers, and lived for much of his period of management in the King's Bench, a debtors' prison in Southwark. Here he maintained an apartment next to Lady Hamilton and lived in some luxury, entertaining lavishly. \n\nJohn Ebers, a bookseller, took over the management of the theatre in 1821, and seven more London premieres of Rossini operas (\"La gazza ladra, Il turco in Italia, Mosè in Egitto, Otello, La donna del lago\", \"Matilde di Shabran\" and \"Ricciardo e Zoraide\") took place there in the following three years. Ebers sublet the theatre to Giambattista Benelli in 1824, and Rossini was invited to conduct, remaining for a five-month season, with his wife Isabella Colbran performing. Two more of his operas, \"Zelmira\" and \"Semiramide\", received their British premieres during the season, but the theatre sustained huge losses and Benelli absconded without paying either the composer or the artists. Ebers engaged Giuditta Pasta for the 1825 season, but he became involved in lawsuits which, combined with a large increase in the rent of the theatre, forced him into bankruptcy, after which he returned to his bookselling business.\n\nIn 1828, Ebers was succeeded as theatre manager by Pierre François Laporte, who held the position (with a brief gap in 1831–33) until his death in 1841. Two of Rossini's Paris operas (\"Le comte Ory\" and \"Le siège de Corinthe\") had their British premieres at the theatre during this period, and Laporte was also the first to introduce the operas of Vincenzo Bellini (\"La sonnambula, Norma\" and \"I puritani\") and Gaetano Donizetti (\"Anna Bolena, Lucia di Lammermoor\" and \"Lucrezia Borgia\") to the British public. Under Laporte, singers such as Giulia Grisi, Pauline Viardot, Giovanni Battista Rubini, Luigi Lablache and Mario made their London stage debuts at the theatre. Among the musical directors of this period was Nicolas Bochsa, the celebrated and eccentric French harpist. He was appointed in 1827 and remained for six years at this position. When Queen Victoria ascended the throne in 1837, the name of the theatre was changed to Her Majesty's Theatre, Italian Opera House. In the same year, Samuel Phelps made his London début as Shylock in \"The Merchant of Venice\" at the theatre, also playing in other Shakespearean plays here.\n\nOver the course of the 1840s, Dion Boucicault had five plays produced here: \"The Bastile\" [sic], an \"after-piece\" (1842), \"Old Heads and Young Hearts\" (1844), \"The School for Scheming\" (1847), \"Confidence\" (1848), and \"The Knight Arva\" (1848). In 1853, Robert Browning's \"Colombe's Birthday\" played at the theatre.\n\nIn 1841, disputes arose over Laporte's decision to replace the baritone Antonio Tamburini with a new singer, Colletti. The audience stormed the stage, and the performers formed a 'revolutionary conspiracy'.\n\nLaporte died suddenly, and Benjamin Lumley took over the management in 1842, introducing London audiences to Donizetti's late operas, \"Don Pasquale\" and \"La fille du régiment\". Initially, relations between Lumley and Michael Costa, the principal conductor at Her Majesty's were good. Verdi's \"Ernani\", \"Nabucco\" and \"I Lombardi\" received their British premieres in 1845–46, and Lumley commissioned \"I masnadieri\" from the composer. This opera received its world premiere on 22 July 1847, with the Swedish operatic diva Jenny Lind in the role of Amalia, and the British premieres of two more Verdi operas, \"I due Foscari\" and \"Attila\", followed in 1847–48. Meanwhile, the performers had continued to feel neglected and the disputes continued. In 1847, Costa finally transferred his opera company to the Theatre Royal, Covent Garden, and the theatre relinquished the sobriquet, 'Italian Opera House', to assume its present title, Her Majesty's Theatre.\n\nLumley engaged Michael Balfe to conduct the orchestra and entered negotiations with Felix Mendelssohn for a new opera. Jenny Lind had made her English début on 4 May 1847 in the role of Alice in Giacomo Meyerbeer's \"Robert le Diable\", in the presence of the Royal family and the composer Felix Mendelssohn. Such was the press of people around the theatre that many \"arrived at last with dresses crushed and torn, and coats hanging in shreds, having suffered bruises and blows in the struggle\". She performed for a number of acclaimed seasons at the theatre, interspersed with national tours, becoming known as the \"Swedish Nightingale\". The secession of the orchestra to Covent Garden was a blow, and the theatre closed in 1852, re-opening in 1856, when a fire closed its rival. After the reopening, Lumley presented two more British premieres of Verdi operas: \"La traviata\" in 1856 and \"Luisa Miller\" in 1858.\nFrom the early 1830s until the late 1840s Her Majesty's Theatre played host to the heyday of the era of the romantic ballet, and the theatre's resident ballet company was considered the most renowned in Europe, aside from the Ballet du Théâtre de l'Académie Royale de Musique in Paris. The celebrated ballet master Jules Perrot began staging ballet at Her Majesty's in 1830. Lumley appointed him \"Premier Maître de Ballet\" (chief choreographer) to the theatre in 1842. Among the works of ballet that he staged were \"Ondine, ou La Naïade\" (1843), \"La Esmeralda\" (1844), and \"Catarina, ou La Fille du Bandit\" (1846), as well as the celebrated divertissement \"Pas de Quatre\" (1845). Other ballet masters created works for the ballet of Her Majesty's Theatre throughout the period of the romantic ballet, most notably Paul Taglioni (son of Filippo Taglioni), who staged ballets including \"Coralia, ou Le Chevalier inconstant\" (1847) and \"Electra\" (1849, the first production of a ballet to make use of electric lighting). Arthur Saint-Léon staged such works as \"La Vivandière\" (1844), \"Le Violin du Diable\" (1849), and \"Le Jugement de Pâris\" (1850), which was considered a sequel of sorts to \"Pas de Quatre\".\n\nThe Italian composer Cesare Pugni was appointed \"Composer of the Ballet Music\" to the theatre in 1843, a position created for him by Lumley. From 1843 until 1850, he composed nearly every new ballet presented at the theatre. Pugni remains the most prolific composer of the genre, having composed more than 100 original ballets, as well as composing numerous divertissements and incidental dances that were often performed as diversions during the intermissions of opera performances at the theatre. Throughout the era of the romantic ballet, the theatre presented performances by notable ballerinas, including Marie Taglioni, Carlotta Grisi, Fanny Elssler, Lucile Grahn, and Fanny Cerrito, performing in the works of Perrot, Taglioni and Saint-Léon.\n\nFrom 1862 to 1867, the theatre was managed by James Henry Mapleson, presenting Italian, French and German opera, including the British premieres of \"La forza del destino\", \"Médée\", \"Faust\" and \"The Merry Wives of Windsor\" and promoting such singers as Mario, Giulia Grisi, De Murska, Thérèse Tietjens, Antonio Giuglini, Charles Santley and Christine Nilsson. On the night of 6 December 1867, the theatre was destroyed by fire, thought to have been caused by an overheated stove. Only the bare walls of the theatre remained, and most of the adjacent shops in Pall Mall, and the Clergy Club hotel in Charles Street, suffered damage of varying severity. The Royal Opera Arcade, on the western side, survived with only superficial damage. With the destruction of the theatre, Mapleson took his company to the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane.\n\nBy the 1850s, with the era of the romantic ballet at an end, the principal personalities of the ballet, such as Perrot, Saint-Léon, Taglioni, and the composer Pugni, joined the Tsar's Imperial Ballet of St. Petersburg, Russia. Ballet in London went through a considerable decline beginning with the fire at Her Majesty's Theatre, a decline that lasted until the end of the 19th century. Ballet in London was not resurrected until the early 20th century, when such dancers as Adeline Genée began performing. The theatre's ballet company found a new home at the Old Vic and soon took on the name of the Vic-Wells Ballet. Later, moving primarily to the Sadler's Wells Theatre, the company became known as the Sadler's Wells Ballet. Eventually the troupe began performing at the Royal Opera House and became the Royal Ballet, as it is known today.\n\nA third building was constructed in 1868 at a cost of £50,000, within the shell of the old theatre, for Lord Dudley. It was designed by Charles Lee and Sons and their partner, William Pain. They had taken over John Nash's practice on his retirement. The new theatre was designed to be less susceptible to fire, with brick firewalls, iron roof trusses and Dennett's patent gypsum-cement floors. The auditorium had four tiers, with a stage large enough for the greatest spectaculars. For opera, the theatre seated 1,890, and for plays, with the orchestra pit removed, 2,500. As a result of a dispute over the rent between Dudley and Mapleson, and a decline in the popularity of ballet, the theatre remained dark until 1874, when it was sold to a Revivalist Christian group for £31,000.\n\nMapleson returned to Her Majesty's in 1877 and 1878, after a disastrous attempt to build a 2,000-seat National Opera House on a site subsequently used for the building of Scotland Yard. On the return of the company, all the fittings of the theatre had been removed, including the seats, carpets and even the wallpaper. £6,000 was spent on fitting out the theatre, and on 28 April 1877 the building returned to theatrical use with the opening of Vincenzo Bellini's opera \"Norma\". The London premiere of Bizet's \"Carmen\" occurred here on 22 June 1878, and in subsequent seasons the theatre hosted the Carl Rosa Opera Company (Rosa's wife, Euphrosyne Parepa, had made her name in opera partly at Her Majesty's) and a programme of French plays and light opera. The company was the first to produce \"Carmen\" in English, at the theatre in February 1879, starring Selina Dolaro in the title role and Durward Lely as Don José. In 1882, the theatre hosted the London premieres of Wagner's \"Ring cycle\".\n\nMapleson returned in 1887 and 1889, but \"The Times\" commented that the repertoire comprised \"works that had long ceased to attract a large public, the singers were exclusively of second-rate quality, and the standard of performance was extremely low\". \"Rigoletto\", on 25 May 1889, was the last operatic performance given in the house.\n\nWith the rapid advances in theatre technology made during this period, the 1868 theatre quickly became outmoded, and the sub-lease of the theatre, still held by the Dudley family, was due to expire in 1891. The Commissioners of Woods, Forests and Land Revenues (forerunners of the Crown Estate) desired the entire block on which the theatre stood to be rebuilt, except for the Royal Arcade, where the lease did not expire until 1912. Problems were encountered in obtaining all the buildings and in financing the scheme, but the theatre and surrounding buildings were demolished in 1892. Plans were commissioned from architect Charles J. Phipps for a theatre and a hotel. In February 1896 an agreement was reached with Herbert Beerbohm Tree for the erection of the theatre at a cost of £55,000. The plans were approved in February 1897, and on 16 July 1896, the foundation stone of the new theatre was laid. Phipps died in 1897, and the theatre was his last work.\n\nThe theatre was designed as a symmetrical pair with the Carlton Hotel and restaurant on the adjacent site, now occupied by New Zealand House. The frontage formed three parts, each of nine bays. The hotel occupied two parts, the theatre one, and the two buildings were unified by a cornice above the ground floor. The buildings rose to four storeys, with attic floors above, surmounted by large squared domes in a style inspired by the French Renaissance. The theatre has a Corinthian colonnade at the first floor, rising to the second, forming a loggia in front of the circle foyer. This is above a canopy over the main ground floor entrances. The theatre lies on an east–west axis. The stage at the western end was deep and wide, and reputedly the first to be flat, rather than raked. The interior was designed by the consulting architect, W. H. Romaine-Walker (1854–1940), after the Opera at Versailles by Gabriel. Stalls and the pit were entered at ground level, with two partly cantilevered tiers above accommodating dress and family circles on the first level, and upper circle, amphitheatre and gallery on the tier above. In all, there were 1,319 seats. Contemporary opinion was critical of the project. Edwin Sachs wrote in his 1897 guide to theatres, \"The treatment is considered to be in the French Renaissance style and stone has been used throughout. The detail cannot, however, be termed satisfactory, nor does the exterior architecturally express the purpose of the building.\"\n\nModern opinion of the theatre is more generous, with English Heritage describing the building as both Phipps' finest work and one of the best planned theatres in London. The building was Grade II* listed in January 1970. Appreciation of the buildings came too late to save the adjacent hotel from redevelopment as the new High Commission for New Zealand, completed in 1963 by British architects Robert Matthew, Johnson Marshall and Partners, who also designed the Commonwealth Institute. In 1995, this too was Grade II listed as a fine example of 1960s architecture. The 200-year-old Royal Opera Arcade, built by Nash and Repton, is all that survives of the second theatre and is the earliest example of a London arcade.\n\nThe current theatre opened on 28 April 1897. Herbert Beerbohm Tree built the theatre with profits from his tremendous success at the Haymarket Theatre, and he owned, managed and lived in the theatre from its construction until his death in 1917. For his personal use, he had a banqueting hall and living room installed in the massive, central, square French-style dome. This building did not specialise in opera, although there were some operatic performances in its early years. The theatre opened with a dramatisation of Gilbert Parker's \"The Seats of the Mighty\". Adaptations of novels by Dickens, Tolstoy, and others formed a significant part of the repertoire, along with classical works from Molière and Shakespeare. The theatre also hosted the world premiere of J. M. Synge's \"The Tinker's Wedding\" on 11 November 1909 and George Bernard Shaw's \"Pygmalion\", with Tree as Henry Higgins and Mrs Patrick Campbell as Eliza, in 1914. Tree's productions were known for their elaborate and spectacular scenery and effects, often including live animals and real grass. These remained both popular and profitable, but in his last decade, Tree's acting style was seen as increasingly outmoded, and many of his plays received bad reviews. Tree defended himself from critical censure, demonstrating his continuing popularity at the box office until his death.\nIn 1904, Tree founded the Academy of Dramatic Art (later RADA), which spent a year based in the theatre before moving in 1905 to Gower Street in Bloomsbury. Tree continued to take graduates of the Academy into his company at His Majesty's, employing some 40 actors in this way by 1911.\n\nThe facilities of the theatre naturally lent themselves to the new genre of musical theatre. \"Chu Chin Chow\" opened in 1916 and ran for an astonishing world record 2,235 performances (almost twice as long as the previous record for musical theatre – a record that it held until surpassed by \"Salad Days\" in 1955). Major productions of plays with large casts were also performed at His Majesty's. George and Ira Gershwin's \"Oh, Kay!\" had its London premiere on 21 September 1927. This starred Gertrude Lawrence and John Kirby, and ran for 213 performances. Noël Coward's operetta \"Bitter Sweet\" enjoyed a run of 697 performances beginning 18 July 1929. J. B. Priestley's theatrical adaptation of his own \"The Good Companions\" premiered on 14 May 1931.\n\nMusicals continued to dominate at the theatre in the post-Second World War period, including transfers of the successful Broadway productions \"Follow the Girls\" (1945; 572 performances) and the Lerner and Loewe musicals \"Brigadoon\" (1949; 685 performances) and \"Paint Your Wagon\" (1953; 478 performances). Leonard Bernstein's \"West Side Story\" opened in December 1958 for a run of 1,039 performances, transferring from Broadway via the Manchester Opera House. The London premiere of \"Fiddler on the Roof\" was on 16 February 1967, starring Chaim Topol, and the production ran at Her Majesty's for 2,030 performances. Forty years after the original stage adaptation, André Previn's musical adaptation of \"The Good Companions\" premiered on 11 July 1974, followed by Andrew Lloyd Webber and Alan Ayckbourn's initially unsuccessful collaboration, \"Jeeves\", on 22 April 1975, which has since enjoyed considerable success.\n\nJohn Cleese organised \"A Poke in the Eye (With a Sharp Stick)\" as a benefit for Amnesty International at the theatre in 1976, and it was broadcast as \"Pleasure at Her Majesty's\". This was the first of \"The Secret Policeman's Balls\", organised by and starring such performers as Peter Cook, Graham Chapman, and Rowan Atkinson. The venue was also the setting for the popular ITV variety series \"Live from Her Majesty's\", which ran on television from 1983 to 1988. It was on this programme that Tommy Cooper collapsed and died on stage in 1984.\n\nThis theatre is one of the 40 theatres featured in the 2012 DVD documentary series \"Great West End Theatres\", presented by Donald Sinden.\n\n\"The Phantom of the Opera\" had its world premiere on 9 October 1986 at the theatre, winning the Olivier Award for Best New Musical and featuring Sarah Brightman and Michael Crawford, who won an Olivier award for his performance in the title role. The piece is still playing at Her Majesty's, celebrating its 25th anniversary in October 2011 and surpassing 10,000 performances in October 2010. It is the second longest-running West End musical in history (after \"Les Misérables\"). In a sign of its continuing popularity, \"Phantom\" ranked second in a 2006 BBC Radio 2 listener poll of the \"Nation's Number One Essential Musicals\". The musical is also the longest-running show on Broadway, was made into a film in 2004 and had been seen by over 130 million people in 145 cities in 27 countries and grossed more than £3.2bn ($5bn) by 2011, the most successful entertainment project in history.\n\nHer Majesty's Theatre's \"grand exterior\" and \"luxurious interior, with its three tiers of boxes and gold statuary around the stage\", as well as French Renaissance design, \"make it an ideal site for this Gothic tale\" set at the Opéra Garnier. The original Victorian stage machinery remains beneath the stage of the theatre. Designer Maria Björnson found a way to use it \"to show the Phantom travelling across the lake as if floating on a sea of mist and fire\", in a key scene from the musical. On 5 May 2008, for the first time in the run, the show closed for three days. This allowed the installation of an improved sound system at the theatre, consisting of over of cabling and the siting of 120 auditorium speakers.\n\nThe theatre's capacity is 1,216 seats on four levels. Really Useful Theatres Group purchased it in January 2000 with nine other London theatres formerly owned by the Stoll-Moss Group. Between 1990 and 1993, renovation and improvements were made by the H.L.M. and C. G. Twelves partnership. In 2014, Really Useful Theatres split-off from the Really Useful Group and owns the theatre.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9437868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9437868", "title": "Honor killing", "text": "Honor killing\n\nAn honor killing or shame killing is the murder of a member of a family, due to the perpetrators' belief that the victim has brought shame or dishonor upon the family, or has violated the principles of a community or a religion, usually for reasons such as refusing to enter an arranged marriage, being in a relationship that is disapproved by their family, having sex outside marriage, becoming the victim of rape, dressing in ways which are deemed inappropriate, engaging in non-heterosexual relations or renouncing a faith.\n\nHuman Rights Watch defines \"honor killings\" as follows:\n\nHonor killings are acts of vengeance, usually death, committed by male family members against female family members, who are held to have brought dishonor upon the family. A woman can be targeted by (individuals within) her family for a variety of reasons, including: refusing to enter into an arranged marriage, being the victim of a sexual assault, seeking a divorce—even from an abusive husband—or (allegedly) committing adultery. The mere perception that a woman has behaved in a way that \"dishonors\" her family is sufficient to trigger an attack on her life.\n\nAlthough rare, men can also be the victims of honor killings by members of the family of a woman with whom they are perceived to have an inappropriate relationship. \n\nIn some cases of honor killing that were brought before German courts murder charges have been reduced to manslaughter. This has been called the \"honor defense\".\n\nThe distinctive nature of honor killings is the collective nature of the crime – many members of an extended family plan the act together, sometimes through a formal \"family council\". Another significant feature is the connection of honor killings to the control of individual's behavior, in particular in regard to sexuality/marriage, by the family as a collective. Another key aspect is the importance of the reputation of the family in the community, and the stigma associated with losing social status, particularly in tight-knit communities. Another characteristic of honor killings is that the perpetrators often do not face negative stigma within their communities, because their behavior is seen as justified.\n\nThe incidence of honor killings is very difficult to determine and estimates vary widely. In most countries data on honor killings is not collected systematically, and many of these killings are reported by the families as suicides or accidents and registered as such. Although honor killings are often associated with the Asian continent, especially the Middle East and South Asia, they occur all over the world. In 2000, the United Nations estimated that 5,000 women were victims of honor killings each year. According to BBC, \"Women's advocacy groups, however, suspect that more than 20,000 women are killed worldwide each year.\" Murder is not the only form of honor crime, other crimes such as acid attacks, abduction, mutilations, and beatings occur; in 2010 the UK police recorded at least 2,823 such crimes.\n\nMethods of killing include stoning, stabbing, beating, burning, beheading, hanging, throat slashing, lethal acid attacks, shooting and strangulation. The murders are sometimes performed in public to warn the other individuals within the community of possible consequences of engaging in what is seen as illicit behavior.\n\nOften, minor girls and boys are selected by the family to act as the killers, so that the killer may benefit from the most favorable legal outcome. Boys and sometimes women in the family are often asked to closely control and monitor the behavior of their sisters or other females in the family, to ensure that the females do not do anything to tarnish the 'honor' and 'reputation' of the family. The boys are often asked to carry out the murder, and if they refuse, they may face serious repercussions from the family and community for failing to perform their \"duty\".\n\nThe cultural features which lead to honor killings are complex. Honor killings involve violence and fear as a tool of maintaining control. Honor killings are argued to have their origins among nomadic peoples and herdsmen: such populations carry all their valuables with them and risk having them stolen, and they do not have proper recourse to law. As a result, inspiring fear, using aggression, and cultivating a reputation for violent revenge in order to protect property is preferable to other behaviors. In societies where there is a weak rule of law, people must build fierce reputations.\n\nIn many cultures where honor is of central value, men are sources, or active generators/agents of that honor, while the only effect that women can have on honor is to destroy it. Once the family's or clan's honor is considered to have been destroyed by a woman, there is a need for immediate revenge to restore it, in order for the family to avoid losing face in the community. As Amnesty International statement notes:\nThe relation between social views on female sexuality and honor killings is complex. The way through which women in honor-based societies are considered to bring dishonor to men is often through their sexual behavior. Indeed, violence related to female sexual expression has been documented since Ancient Rome, when the pater familias had the right to kill an unmarried sexually active daughter or an adulterous wife. In medieval Europe, early Jewish law mandated stoning for an adulterous wife and her partner.\nCarolyn Fluehr-Lobban, an anthropology professor at Rhode Island College, writes that an act, or even alleged act, of any female sexual misconduct, upsets the moral order of the culture, and bloodshed is the only way to remove any shame brought by the actions and restore social equilibrium. However, the relation between honor and female sexuality is a complicated one, and some authors argue that it is not women's sexuality \"per se\" that is the 'problem', but rather women's self-determination in regard to it, as well as fertility. Sharif Kanaana, professor of anthropology at Birzeit University, says that honor killing is:\nIn some cultures, honor killings are considered less serious than other murders simply because they arise from long-standing cultural traditions and are thus deemed appropriate or justifiable. Additionally, according to a poll done by the BBC’s Asian network, 1 in 10 of the 500 young south Asians surveyed said they would condone any murder of someone who threatened their family’s honor.\n\nNighat Taufeeq of the women's resource center Shirkatgah in Lahore, Pakistan says: \"It is an unholy alliance that works against women: the killers take pride in what they have done, the tribal leaders condone the act and protect the killers and the police connive the cover-up.\" The lawyer and human rights activist Hina Jilani says, \"The right to life of women in Pakistan is conditional on their obeying social norms and traditions.\"\n\nA July 2008 Turkish study by a team from Dicle University on honor killings in the Southeastern Anatolia Region, the predominantly Kurdish area of Turkey, has so far shown that little if any social stigma is attached to honor killing. It also comments that the practice is not related to a feudal societal structure, \"there are also perpetrators who are well-educated university graduates. Of all those surveyed, 60 percent are either high school or university graduates or at the very least, literate.\"\n\nIn contemporary times, the changing cultural and economic status of women has also been used to explain the occurrences of honor killings. Women in largely patriarchal cultures who have gained economic independence from their families go against their male-dominated culture. Some researchers argue that the shift towards greater responsibility for women and less for their fathers may cause their male family members to act in oppressive and sometimes violent manners in order to regain authority.\n\nThis change of culture can also be seen to have an effect in Western cultures such as Britain among South Asian and Middle-Eastern communities where honor killings often target women seeking greater independence and adopting seemingly Western values. For families who trace their ancestry back to the Middle East or South Asia, honor killings have targeted women for wearing clothes that are considered Western, having a boyfriend, or refusing to accept an arranged marriage\n\nFareena Alam, editor of a Muslim magazine, writes that honor killings which arise in Western cultures such as Britain are a tactic for immigrant families to cope with the alienating consequences of urbanization. Alam argues that immigrants remain close to the home culture and their relatives because it provides a safety net. She writes that, Alam argues that it is thus the attempt to regain control and the feelings of alienation that ultimately leads to an honor killing.\n\nRefusal of an arranged marriage is often a cause of an honor killing. The family which has prearranged the marriage risks disgrace if the marriage does not proceed. and the latter is indulged in a relationship with other individual without prior knowledge of the family members.\n\nA woman attempting to obtain a divorce or separation without the consent of the husband/extended family can also be a trigger for honor killings. In cultures where marriages are arranged and goods are often exchanged between families, a woman's desire to seek a divorce is often viewed as an insult to the men who negotiated the deal. By making their marital problems known outside the family, the women are seen as exposing the family to public dishonor.\n\nIn certain cultures, an \"allegation\" against a woman can be enough to tarnish her family's reputation, and to trigger an honor killing: the family's fear of being ostracized by the community is enormous.\n\nIn many cultures, victims of rape face severe violence, including honor killings, from their families and relatives. In many parts of the world, women who have been raped are considered to have brought 'dishonor' or 'disgrace' to their families. This is especially the case if the victim becomes pregnant.\n\nCentral to the code of honor, in many societies, is a woman's virginity, which must be preserved until marriage. Suzanne Ruggi writes, \"A woman's virginity is the property of the men around her, first her father, later a gift for her husband; a virtual dowry as she graduates to marriage.\"\n\nThere is evidence that homosexuality can also be perceived as grounds for honor killing by relatives. It is not only same-sex sexual acts that trigger violence – behaviors that are regarded as inappropriate gender expression (e.g. a male acting or dressing in a \"feminine way\") can also raise suspicion and lead to honor violence.\n\nIn one case, a gay Jordanian man was shot and wounded by his brother. In another case, in 2008, a homosexual Turkish-Kurdish student, Ahmet Yildiz, was shot outside a cafe and later died in the hospital. Sociologists have called this Turkey's first publicized gay honor killing. In 2012, a 17-year-old gay youth was murdered by his father in Turkey in the southeastern province of Diyarbakır.\n\nThe United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees states that \"claims made by LGBT persons often reveal exposure to physical and sexual violence, extended periods of detention, medical abuse, threat of execution and honour killing.\"\n\nThere are multiple causes for which honor killings occur, and numerous factors interact with each other.\n\nHonor killings are often a result of strongly misogynistic views towards women, and the position of women in society. In these traditionally male-dominated societies women are dependent first on their father and then on their husband, whom they are expected to obey. Women are viewed as property and not as individuals with their own agency. As such, they must submit to male authority figures in the family – failure to do so can result in extreme violence as punishment. Violence is seen as a way of ensuring compliance and preventing rebellion. According to Shahid Khan, a professor at the Aga Khan University in Pakistan: \"Women are considered the property of the males in their family irrespective of their class, ethnic, or religious group. The owner of the property has the right to decide its fate. The concept of ownership has turned women into a commodity which can be exchanged, bought and sold\". In such cultures, women are not allowed to take control over their bodies and sexuality: these are the property of the males of the family, the father (and other male relatives) who must ensure virginity until marriage; and then the husband to whom his wife's sexuality is subordinated – a woman must not undermine the ownership rights of her guardian by engaging in premarital sex or adultery.\n\nThe concept of family honor is extremely important in many Muslim communities. The most frequently quoted figure published by the United Nations in 2000 is an estimate of 5,000 killings worldwide each year, most of them in Islamic regions of South Asia, North Africa and the Middle East. The family is viewed as the main source of honor and the community highly values the relationship between honor and the family. Acts by family members which may be considered inappropriate are seen as bringing shame to the family in the eyes of the community. Such acts often include female behaviors that are related to sex outside marriage or way of dressing, but may also include male homosexuality (like the emo killings in Iraq). The family loses face in the community, and may be shunned by relatives. The only way the shame can be erased is through a killing. The cultures in which honor killings take place are usually considered \"collectivist cultures\", where the family is more important than the individual, and individualistic autonomy is seen as a threat to the collective family and its honor.\n\nLegal frameworks can encourage honor killings. Such laws include on one side leniency towards such killings, and on the other side criminalization of various behaviors, such as extramarital sex, 'indecent' dressing in public places, or homosexual sexual acts, with these laws acting as a way of reassuring perpetrators of honor killings that people engaging in these behaviors deserve punishment.\n\nIn the Roman Empire the Roman law \"Lex Julia de adulteriis coercendis\" implemented by Augustus Caesar permitted the murder of daughters and their lovers who committed adultery at the hands of their fathers and also permitted the murder of the adulterous wife's lover at the hand of her husband.\n\nThe Napoleonic Code did not allow women to murder unfaithful husbands, while it permitted the murder of unfaithful women by their husbands. The Napoleonic Code Article 324 which was passed in 1810 permitted the murders of an unfaithful wife and her lover at the hand of her husband. It was abolished only in 1975. On 7 November 1975, Law no. 617/75 Article 17 repealed the 1810 French Penal Code Article 324. The 1810 penal code Article 324 passed by Napoleon was copied by Middle Eastern Arab countries. It inspired Jordan's Article 340 which permits murder of a wife and her lover if caught in the act at the hands of her husband. France's 1810 Penal Code Article 324 also inspired the 1858 Ottoman Penal Code's Article 188, both the French Article 324 and Ottoman article 188 were drawn on to create Jordan's Article 340 which was retained even after a 1944 revision of Jordan's laws which did not touch public conduct and family law so Article 324 still applies to this day. France's Mandate over Lebanon resulted in its penal code being imposed there in 1943–1944, with the French inspired Lebanese law for adultery allowing the mere accusation of adultery against women resulting in a maximum punishment of two years in prison while men have to be caught in the act and not merely accused, and are punished with only one year in prison.\n\nFrance's Article 324 inspired laws in other Arab countries such as:\n\nA forced suicide may be a substitute for an honor killing. In this case, the family members do not directly kill the victim themselves, but force him or her to commit suicide, in order to avoid punishment. Such suicides are reported to be common in southeastern Turkey. It was reported that in 2001, 565 women lost their lives in honor-related crimes in Ilam, Iran, of which 375 were reportedly staged as self-immolation. In 2008, self-immolation \"occurred in all the areas of Kurdish settlement (in Iran), where it was more common than in other parts of Iran\". It is claimed that in Iraqi Kurdistan many deaths are reported as \"female suicides\" in order to conceal honor-related crimes.\n\nIn the case of an unmarried woman or girl associating herself with a man, losing virginity, or being raped, the family may attempt to restore its 'honor' with a 'shotgun wedding'. The groom will usually be the man who has 'dishonored' the woman or girl, but if this is not possible the family may try to arrange a marriage with another man, often a man who is part of the extended family of the one who has committed the acts with the woman or girl. This being an alternative to an honor killing, the woman or girl has no choice but to accept the marriage. The family of the man is expected to cooperate and provide a groom for the woman.\n\nWidney Brown, the advocacy director of Human Rights Watch, said that the practice \"goes across cultures and across religions\".\n\nResolution 1327 (2003) of the Council of Europe states that:\n\nMany Muslim commentators, and organizations condemn honor killings as an un-Islamic cultural practice. Tahira Shaid Khan, a professor of women's issues at Aga Khan University, says that there is nothing in the Qur'an that permits or sanctions honor killings. Khan instead blames them on attitudes (across different classes, ethnic, and religious groups) that view women as property with no rights of their own as the motivation for honor killings. Salafi scholar Muhammad Al-Munajjid asserts that the punishment of any crime is only reserved for the Islamic ruler. Ali Gomaa, Egypt's ex-Grand Mufti, has also spoken out forcefully against honor killings.\n\nAs a more generic statement reflecting the wider Islamic scholarly trend, Jonathan A.C. Brown says that \"questions about honor killings have regularly found their way into the inboxes of muftis like Yusuf Qaradawi or the late Lebanese Shiite scholar Muhammad Husayn Fadlallah. Their responses reflect a rare consensus. No Muslim scholar of any note, either medieval or modern, has sanctioned a man killing his wife or sister for tarnishing her or the family's honor. If a woman or man found together were to deserve the death penalty for fornication, this would have to be established by the evidence required by the Qur'an: either a confession or the testimony of four male witnesses, all upstanding in the eyes of the court, who actually saw penetration occur.\"\n\nMatthew A. Goldstein, J.D. (Arizona), has noted that honor killings were encouraged in ancient Rome, where male family members who did not take action against the female adulterers in their families were \"actively persecuted\".\n\nThe origin of honor killings and the control of women is evidenced throughout history in the cultures and traditions of many regions. The Roman law of pater familias gave complete control to the men of the family over both their children and wives. Under these laws, the lives of children and wives were at the discretion of the men in their families. Ancient Roman Law also justified honor killings by stating that women who were found guilty of adultery could be killed by their husbands. During the Qing dynasty in China, fathers and husbands had the right to kill daughters who were deemed to have dishonored the family.<ref name=\"http://hbv-awareness.com/history\"></ref>\n\nAmong the Amerindian Aztecs and Incas, adultery was punishable by death. During John Calvin’s rule of Geneva, women found guilty of adultery were punished by being drowned in the Rhone river.\n\nHonor killings have a long tradition in Mediterranean Europe. According to the \"Honour Related Violence – European Resource Book and Good Practice\" (page 234): \"Honor in the Mediterranean world is a code of conduct, a way of life and an ideal of the social order, which defines the lives, the customs and the values of many of the peoples in the Mediterranean moral\".\n\nAccording to the UN in 2002:\n\nIn addition, the United Nations Commission on Human Rights gathered reports from several countries and considering only the countries that submitted reports it was shown that honor killings have occurred in Bangladesh, Great Britain, Brazil, Ecuador, Egypt, India, Israel, Italy, Jordan, Pakistan, Morocco, Sweden, Turkey, and Uganda.\nAccording to Widney Brown, advocacy director for Human Rights Watch, the practice of honor killing \"goes across cultures and across religions.\"\n\nThe issue of honor killings has risen to prominence in Europe in recent years, prompting the need to address the occurrence of honor killings. The 2009 European Parliamentary Assembly noted this in their Resolution 1681 which noted the dire need to address honor crimes. The resolution stated that: \n\nThe Honour Based Violence Awareness Network (HBVA) writes:<ref name=\"http://hbv-awareness.com/regions\"></ref>\n\nThe majority of honor killings are committed by first generation immigrants against second and third generation to prevent them from becoming Westernized.\n\nHonor based violence has a long tradition in Albania, and although it is much rarer today than it was in the past, it still exists. The Kanun is a set of traditional Albanian laws and customs. Honor (in Albanian: \"Nderi\") is one of the four pillars on which the Kanun is based. Honor crimes happen especially in northern Albania. In Albania (and in other parts of the Balkans) the phenomenon of blood feuds between males was more common historically than honor killings of females; but honor based violence against women and girls also has a tradition.\n\nIn 2011, Belgium held its first honor killing trial, in which four Pakistani family members were found guilty of killing their daughter and sibling, Sadia Sheikh.\n\nAs a legacy of the very influential Napoleonic Code, before 1997, Belgian law provided for mitigating circumstances in the case of a killing or an assault against a spouse caught in the act of adultery. (Adultery itself was decriminalized in Belgium in 1987.)\n\nGhazala Khan was shot and killed in Denmark in September 2005, by her brother, after she had married against the will of the family. She was of Pakistani origin. Her murder was ordered by her father to save her family's 'honor' and several relatives were involved. Sentences considered harsh by Danish standards were handed out to all nine accused members of her family.\n\nFrance has a large immigrant community from North Africa (especially from Algeria, Morocco and Tunisia) and honor based violence occurs in this community. A 2009 report by the Council of Europe cited the United Kingdom, Germany, Belgium, France, and Norway as countries where honor crimes and honor killings occur.\n\nFrance traditionally provided for leniency with regard to honor crimes, particularly when they were committed against women who had committed adultery.\nThe Napoleonic Code of 1804, established under Napoleon Bonaparte, is one of the origins of the legal leniency with regard to adultery-related killings in a variety of legal systems in several countries around the world. Under this code, a man who killed his wife after she had been caught in the act of adultery could not be charged with premeditated murder – although he could be charged with other lesser offenses. This defense was available only for a husband, not for a wife. The Napoleonic Code has been very influential, and many countries, inspired by it, provided for lesser penalties or even acquittal for such crimes. This can be seen in the criminal codes of many former French colonies.\n\nInvestigating criminal records for partner homicides from the years 1996-2005 period, the German Federal Criminal Police Office concluded that there were about 12 cases of honour killings in Germany per year, including cases involving collective family honor and individual male honor, out of an average about 700 annual homicides. An accompanied study of all homicides in Baden-Württemberg show that men from Turkey, Yugoslavia and Albania have a between three and five times overrepresentation for partner homicides, both honor and non-honor releated. The causes for the higher rate was given as low education and social status of these groups along with cultural traditions of violence against women.\n\nIn 2005 \"Der Spiegel\" reported: \"In the past four months, six Muslim women living in Berlin have been killed by family members\". The article went on to cover the case of Hatun Sürücü, a Turkish-Kurdish woman who was killed by her brother for not staying with the husband she was forced to marry, and for \"living like a German\". Precise statistics on how many women die every year in such honor killings are hard to come by, as many crimes are never reported, said Myria Boehmecke of the Tuebingen-based women's group \"Terre des Femmes\". The group tries to protect Muslim girls and women from oppressive families. The Turkish women's organization \"Papatya\" has documented 40 instances of honor killings in Germany since 1996. Hatun Sürücü's brother was convicted of murder and jailed for nine years and three months by a German court in 2006. In March 2009, a Kurdish immigrant from Turkey, Gülsüm S., was killed for a relationship not in keeping with her religious family's plan for an arranged marriage. In 2016 a Kurdish Yazidi woman was shot dead at her wedding in Hannover for allegedly refusing to marry her cousin in a forced marriage.\n\nSimilar to other Southern/Mediterranean European areas, honor was traditionally important in Italy. Indeed, until 1981, the Criminal Code provided for mitigating circumstances for such killings; until 1981 the law read: \"Art. 587: He who causes the death of a spouse, daughter, or sister upon discovering her in illegitimate carnal relations and in the heat of passion caused by the offence to his honour or that of his family will be sentenced to three to seven years. The same sentence shall apply to whom, in the above circumstances, causes the death of the person involved in illegitimate carnal relations with his spouse, daughter, or sister\". Traditionally, honor crimes used to be more prevalent in Southern Italy.\n\nIn 1546, Isabella di Morra, a young poet from Valsinni, Matera, was stabbed to death by her brothers for a suspected affair with a married nobleman, whom they also murdered.\n\nIn 2006, 20-year-old Hina Saleem, a Pakistani woman who lived in Brescia, Italy, was murdered by her father who claimed he was \"saving the family's honour\". She had refused an arranged marriage, and was living with her Italian boyfriend.\n\nIn 2009, in Pordenone, Italy, Sanaa Dafani, an 18-year-old girl of Moroccan origin, was murdered by her father because she had a relationship with an Italian man.\n\nIn 2011, in Cerignola, Italy, a man stabbed his brother 19 times because his homosexuality was a \"dishonour to the family\".\n\nAnooshe Sediq Ghulam was a 22-year-old Afghan refugee in Norway, who was killed by her husband in an honor killing in 2002. She had reported her husband to the police for domestic violence and was seeking a divorce.\n\nThe Swedish National Police Board and the Swedish Prosecution Authority define honor related crime as crimes against a relative who, according to the perpetrator and his family's point of view, has disohonoured the family. These crimes are intended to prevent the family honor being damaged or to restore damaged or lost family honor.\n\nThe most serious honor related crime is often organised and deliberate and not limited to killing. Incidents include torture, forced suicides, forced marriages, rapes, kidnapping, assault, mortal threats, extortion and protecting a criminal.\n\nIn Sweden the 26-year-old Iraqi Kurdish woman Fadime Şahindal was killed by her father in 2002. Kurdish organizations were criticized by prime minister Göran Persson for not doing enough to prevent honour killings. Pela Atroshi was a Kurdish girl who was shot by her uncle in a brutal honour killing. The murder of Pela and Fadime gave rise to the formation of GAPF (the acronym stands for Never Forget Pela and Fadime), a politically and religiously independent and secular nonprofit organization working against honor-related violence and oppression. The organization's name is taken from Pela Atroshi and Fadime Sahindal which are Sweden's best-known and high-profile cases of honor killings. The honor killing of Sara, an Iraqi Kurdish girl, was the first publicized honor killing in Sweden. Sara was killed in an honor killing by her brother and cousin when she was 15 years old. According to statements by her mother, Sara's brother believed that she \"was a whore who slept with Swedish boys\", and that even though he himself also slept with Swedish girls that \"was different, because he is a male, and he would not even think of sleeping with Iraqi girls, only with Swedish girls, with whores.\" These three prominent cases of Sara, Pela and Fadime, brought the notion of honour killings into Swedish discourse.\n\nIn 2016 ten out of the 105 murder cases were honor killings, with 6 female and 4 male victims. The 6 female victims represented a third of the 18 murders of women in Sweden that year.\n\nIn 2010, a 16-year-old Pakistani girl was killed near Zurich, Switzerland, by her father who was dissatisfied with both her lifestyle and her Christian boyfriend. In 2014, a 42-year old Syrian Kurd killed his wife (and cousin) because she had a boyfriend and wanted to live separately. The suspect defended himself by claiming that honor killing is part of Kurdish culture.\n\nEvery year in the United Kingdom (UK), officials estimate that at least a dozen women are victims of honor killings, almost exclusively within Asian and Middle Eastern families. Often, cases cannot be resolved due to the unwillingness of families, relatives and communities to testify. A 2006 BBC poll for the Asian network in the UK found that one in ten of the 500 young Asians polled said that they could condone the killing of someone who had dishonored their families. In the UK, in December 2005, Nazir Afzal, Director, west London, of Britain's Crown Prosecution Service, stated that the United Kingdom has seen \"at least a dozen honour killings\" between 2004 and 2005.\n\nIn 2010, Britain saw a 47% rise in the number of honor-related crimes. Data from police agencies in the UK report 2283 cases in 2010, and an estimated 500 more from jurisdictions that did not provide reports. These \"honor-related crimes\" also include house arrests and other parental punishments. Most of the attacks were conducted in cities that had high immigrant populations.\n\nBanaz Mahmod, a 20-year-old Iraqi Kurdish woman from Mitcham, south London, was killed in 2006, in a murder orchestrated by her father, uncle and cousins. Her life and murder were presented in a documentary called Banaz a Love Story, directed and produced by Deeyah Khan.\n\nAnother well-known case was Heshu Yones, stabbed to death by her Kurdish father in London in 2002 when her family heard a love song dedicated to her and suspected she had a boyfriend. Other examples include the killing of Tulay Goren, a Kurdish Shia Muslim girl who immigrated with her family from Turkey, and Samaira Nazir (Pakistani Muslim).\n\nA highly publicized case was that of Shafilea Iftikhar Ahmed, a 17-year-old British Pakistani girl from Great Sankey, Warrington, Cheshire, who was murdered in 2003 by her parents. However, a lesser-known case is that of Gurmeet Singh Ubhi, a Sikh man who, in February 2011, was found guilty of the murder of his 24-year-old daughter, Amrit Kaur Ubhi in 2010. Ubhi was found to have murdered his daughter because he disapproved of her being 'too westernised'. Likewise he also disapproved of the fact that she was dating a non-Sikh man. In 2012, the UK had the first white victim of an honor killing: 17-year-old Laura Wilson was killed by her Asian boyfriend, Ashtiaq Ashgar, because she revealed details of their relationship to his family, challenging traditional cultural values of the Asian family. Laura Wilson's mother told Daily Mail, \"I honestly think it was an honour killing for putting shame on the family. They needed to shut Laura up and they did\". Wilson was repeatedly knifed to death as she walked along a canal in Rotherham city.\n\nIn 2013, Mohammed Inayat was jailed for killing his wife and injuring three daughters by setting his house on fire in Birmingham. Inayat wanted to stop his daughter from flying to Dubai to marry her boyfriend, because he believed the marriage would dishonor his family. In 2014, the husband of Syrian-born 25-year-old Rania Alayed, as well as three brothers of the husband, were jailed for killing her. According to the prosecution, the motive for the murder was that she had become \"too westernised\" and was \"establishing an independent life\".\n\nHonor killings also affect gay people. In 2008 a man had to flee from Turkey after his Kurdish boyfriend was killed by his own father.\n\nHonor killings in Egypt occur due to reasons such as a woman meeting an unrelated man, even if this is only an allegation; or adultery (real or suspected). The exact number of honor killings is not known, but a report in 1995 estimated about 52 honor\nkillings that year. In 2013, a woman and her two daughters were murdered by 10 male relatives, who strangled and beat them, and then threw their bodies in the Nile. Honor killings are illegal in Egypt and five of the ten men were arrested.\n\nIn Iran, honor killings occur primarily among tribal minority groups, such as Kurdish, Arab, Lori, Baluchi, and Turkish-speaking tribes, while honor-related crimes are not a tradition among Persians who are generally less socially conservative. Honor killings are particularly prevalent in the provinces of Kordistan and Ilam. Discriminatory family laws, articles in the Criminal Code that show leniency towards honor killings, and a strongly male dominated society have been cited as causes of honor killings in Iran. It was reported that in 2001, 565 women lost their lives in honor-related crimes in Ilam, Iran, of which 375 were reportedly staged as self-immolation. In 2008, self-immolation, \"occurred in all the areas of Kurdish settlement (in Iran), where it was more common than in other parts of Iran\".\n\nIn 2008, the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq (UNAMI) has stated that honor killings are a serious concern in Iraq, particularly well documented in Iraqi Kurdistan. The Free Women's Organization of Kurdistan (FWOK) released a statement on International Women's Day 2015 noting that \"6,082 women were killed or forced to commit suicide during the past year in Iraqi Kurdistan, which is almost equal to the number of the Peshmerga martyred fighting Islamic State (IS),\" and that a large number of women were victims of honor killings or enforced suicide—mostly self-immolation or hanging. About 500 honor killings per year are reported in hospitals in Iraqi Kurdistan, although real numbers are likely much higher. It is speculated that alone in Erbil there is one honor killing per day. The UNAMI reported that at least 534 honor killings occurred between January and April 2006 in the Kurdish Governorates. It is claimed that many deaths are reported as \"female suicides\" in order to conceal honor-related crimes. Aso Kamal of the Doaa Network Against Violence claimed that they have estimated that there were more than 12,000 honor killings in Iraqi Kurdistan from 1991 to 2007. He also said that the government figures are much lower, and show a decline in recent years, and Kurdish law has mandated since 2008 that an honor killing be treated like any other murder. Honor killings and other forms of violence against women have increased since the creation of Iraqi Kurdistan, and \"both the KDP and PUK claimed that women’s oppression, including ‘honor killings’, are part of Kurdish ‘tribal and Islamic culture’\". The honor killing and self-immolation condoned or tolerated by the Kurdish administration in Iraqi Kurdistan has been labeled as \"gendercide\" by Mojab (2003).\n\nAs many as 133 women were killed in the Iraqi city of Basra alone in 2006. 79 were killed for violation of \"Islamic teachings\" and 47 for honor, according to IRIN, the news branch of the U.N.'s Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs. Amnesty International says that armed groups, not the government, also kill politically active women and those who did not follow a strict dress code, as well as women who are perceived as human rights defenders. 17-year-old Du'a Khalil Aswad, an Iraqi girl of the Yazidi faith, was stoned to death in front of a mob of about 2000 men in 2007, possibly because she was allegedly planning to convert to Islam. A video of the brutal incident was released on the Internet. According to the crowd she had \"shamed herself and her family\" for failing to return home one night and there were suspicions of her converting to Islam to marry her boyfriend, who was in hiding in fear of his own safety.\n\nSharaf is the honor of the family, tribe or person which can increase if the path of moral behavior is followed or decrease if it is left. 'ird is that honor which relates only to the women in family; it can only decrease. Sharaf is outweighed by 'ird.\n\nTo regain sharaf, 'ird must be cleansed.\nMurder, marriage to the person who violated the woman's honor, or marriage to another man will all restore 'ird.\n\nThere are still honor killings in Jordan.\nA 2008 report of the National Council of Family Affairs in Jordan, an NGO affiliated with the Queen of Jordan, indicated that the National Forensic Medicine Center recorded 120 murdered women in 2006, with 18 cases classified officially as crimes of honor.\n\nIn 2013, the BBC cited estimates by the National Council of Family Affairs in Jordan, an NGO, that as many as 50 Jordanian women and girls had been killed in the preceding 13 years. But the BBC indicated \"the real figure\" was probably \"far higher,\" because \"most honour killings go unreported.\"\n\nMen used to receive reduced sentences for killing their wives or female family members if they are deemed to have brought dishonor to their family. Families often get sons under the age of 16—legally minors—to commit honor killings; the juvenile law allows convicted minors to serve time in a juvenile detention center and be released with a clean criminal record at the age of 16. Rana Husseini, a leading journalist on the topic of honor killings, states that \"under the existing law, people found guilty of committing honor killings often receive sentences as light as six months in prison\". According to UNICEF, there are an average of 23 honor killings per year in Jordan.\n\nOn 1 August 2017, article 98 in the penal codes were amended to exclude receiving lenient punishments for being in \"a state of great fury\". However, article 340 which sees reduced penalties when a man attacks or kills a female relative having found her in the act of \"adultery\", is still in effect.\n\nA 2013 survey of \"856 ninth graders – average age of 15 – from a range of secondary schools across Amman – including private and state, mixed-sex and single gender\" showed that attitudes favoring honor killings are present in the \"next generation\" Jordanians: \"In total, 33.4% of all respondents either \"agreed\" or \"strongly agreed\" with situations depicting honour killings. Boys were more than twice as likely to support honour killings: 46.1% of boys and 22.1% of girls agreed with at least two honour killing situations in the questionnaire.\" The parents' education was found to be a significant correlation: \"61% of teenagers from the lowest level of educational background showed supportive attitudes towards honour killing, as opposed to only 21.1% where at least one family member has a university degree.\"\n\nKuwait is relatively liberal (by Middle East standards), and honor killings are rare, but not unheard of – in 2006 a young woman died in an honor killing committed by her brothers. In 2008, a girl was given police protection after reporting that her family intended to kill her for having an affair with a man.\n\nThere are no exact official numbers about honor killings of women in Lebanon; many honor killings are arranged to look like accidents, but the figure is believed to be 40 to 50 per year. A 2007 report by Amnesty International said that the Lebanese media in 2001 reported 2 or 3 honor killings per month in Lebanon, although the number is believed to be higher by other independent sources.\n\nOn 4 August 2011, however, the Lebanese Parliament agreed by a majority to abolish Article 562, which for the past years had worked as an excuse to commute the sentence given for honor killing.\n\nThe Palestinian Authority, using a clause in the Jordanian penal code still in effect in the West Bank, exempts men from punishment for killing a female relative if she has brought dishonor to the family. Mahmoud Abbas, president of the Palestinian Authority, issued a decree in May 2014 under which the exemption of men was abolished in cases of honor killings. According to UNICEF estimates in 1999, two-thirds of all murders in the Palestinian territories were likely honor killings. The Palestinian Independent Commission for Human Rights has reported 29 women were killed 2007–2010, whereas 13 women were killed in 2011 and 12 in the first seven months of 2012. According to a PA Ministry of Women's Affairs report the rate of 'Honor Killings' went up by 100% in 2013, \"reporting the number of 'honor killing' victims for 2013 at 27\".\n\nIn 2005, 22-year-old Faten Habash, a Christian from West Bank, was said to have dishonored her family by falling for a young Muslim man, Samer. Following their thwarted attempts to elope to Jordan, she suffered her relatives' wrath after rejecting the options of either marrying her cousin or becoming a nun in Rome. She had spent a period of time in hospital recovering from a broken pelvis and various other injuries caused by an earlier beating by her father and other family members. Still fearing her family after her release from hospital, she approached a powerful Bedouin tribe, which took her under its care. Her father then wept and gave his word that he would not harm her. She returned to him, only to be bludgeoned to death with an iron bar days later.\n\nIn 2008 a woman was killed in Saudi Arabia by her father for \"chatting\" with a man on Facebook. The killing became public only when a Saudi cleric referred to the case, to criticize Facebook for the strife it caused.\n\nSome estimates suggest that more than 200 honor killings occur every year in Syria.\nThe Syrian Civil War has been reported as leading to an increase in honor killings in the country, mainly due to the common occurrence of war rape, which led to the stigmatization of victims by their relatives and communities, and in turn to honor killings.\n\nA report compiled by the Council of Europe estimated that over 200 women were killed in honor killings in Turkey in 2007. A June 2008 report by the Turkish Prime Ministry's Human Rights Directorate said that in Istanbul alone there was one honor killing every week, and reported over 1,000 during the previous five years. It added that metropolitan cities were the location of many of these, due to growing immigration to these cities from the East. The mass migration during the past decades of rural population from Southeastern Turkey to big cities in Western Turkey has resulted in relatively more developed cities such as Istanbul, Ankara, Izmir, and Bursa having the highest numbers of reported honor killings.\n\nA report by UNFPA identified the following situations as being common triggers for honor killings: a married woman having an extra-marital relationship; a married woman running away with a man; a married woman getting separated or divorced; a divorced woman having a relationship with another man; a young unmarried girl having a relationship; a young unmarried girl running away with a man; a woman (married or unmarried) being kidnapped and/or raped.\n\nIn Turkey, young boys are often ordered by other family members to commit the honor killing, so that they can get a shorter jail sentence (because they are minors). Forced suicides – where the victim who is deemed to have 'dishonored' the family is ordered to commit suicide in an attempt by the perpetrator to avoid legal consequences – also take place in Turkey, especially in Batman in southeastern Turkey, which has been nicknamed \"Suicide City\".\n\nIn 2009 a Turkish news agency reported that a 2-day-old boy who was born out of wedlock had been killed for honor in Istanbul. The maternal grandmother of the infant, along with six other persons, including a doctor who had reportedly accepted a bribe to not report the birth, were arrested. The grandmother is suspected of fatally suffocating the infant. The child's mother, 25, was also arrested; she stated that her family had made the decision to kill the child.\n\nIn 2010 a 16-year-old girl was buried alive by relatives for befriending boys in Southeast Turkey; her corpse was found 40 days after she went missing. Ahmet Yildiz, 26, a Turkish-Kurdish physics student who represented his country at an international gay conference in the United States in 2008, was shot dead leaving a cafe in Istanbul. Ahmet Yildiz who came from a deeply religious family was believed to have been the victim of the country's first gay honor killing.\n\nHonor killings continue to receive some support in the conservative regions of Turkey. In 2005, A small survey in Diyarbakir in southeastern Turkey found that, when asked the appropriate punishment for a woman who has committed adultery, 37% of respondents said she should be killed, while 21% said her nose or ears should be cut off. A July 2008 Turkish study by a team from Dicle University on honor killings in the Southeastern Anatolia Region, the predominantly Kurdish area of Turkey, has so far shown that little if any social stigma is attached to honor killing. It also comments that the practice is not related to a feudal societal structure, \"there are also perpetrators who are well-educated university graduates. Of all those surveyed, 60 percent are either high school or university graduates or at the very least, literate.\" There are well documented cases, where Turkish courts have sentenced whole families to life imprisonment for an honor killing. The most recent was on 13 January 2009, where a Turkish Court sentenced five members of the same Kurdish family to life imprisonment for the honor killing of Naile Erdas, a 16-year-old girl who got pregnant as a result of rape.\n\nHonor killings are common in Yemen. In some parts of the country, traditional tribal customs forbid contact between men and women before marriage. Yemeni society is strongly male dominated, Yemen being ranked last of 135 countries in the 2012 Global Gender Gap Report. It was estimated that in 1997 about 400 women and girls died in honor killings in Yemen.\nIn 2013, a 15-year-old girl was killed by her father, who burned her to death, because she talked to her fiancé before the wedding.\n\nHonor killings in Maghreb are not as common as in the Asian countries of the Middle East and South Asia, but they do occur. In Libya, they are particularly committed against rape victims.\n\nIn 2012, Afghanistan recorded 240 cases of honor killings, but the total number is believed to be much higher. Of the reported honor killings, 21% were committed by the victims’ husbands, 7% by their brothers, 4% by their fathers, and the rest by other relatives.\n\nHonor killings have been reported in northern regions of India, mainly in the Indian states of Punjab, Rajasthan, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, as a result of people marrying without their family's acceptance, and sometimes for marrying outside their caste or religion. In contrast, honor killings are less prevalent but are not completely non-existent in South India and the western Indian states of Maharashtra and Gujarat. In 2015 National Crime Records Bureau data shows, 251 honor killings were reported in India, activists consider this number to be under estimation due to the misreporting of killings under general murders. According to the survey done by AIDWA, over 30 percent of the total honor killings in the country takes place in Western Uttar Pradesh. In some other parts of India, notably West Bengal, honor killings completely ceased about a century ago, largely due to the activism and influence of reformists such as Vivekananda, Ramakrishna, Vidyasagar and Raja Ram Mohan Roy.\n\nHaryana has had incidences of honor killings, mainly among Meenas, Rajputs and Jats. Role of khap panchayats (caste councils of village elders) has been questioned Feminist scholars who studied khaps explain that only 2% to 3% honor killings are related to gotra killings by the khap or caste panchayats, rest are done by the families, \"will you ban families?\" they reason. Madhu Kishwar, a feminist and the professor at Centre for the Study of Developing Societies, explains that, \"there are plenty of tyrannical police officials, plenty of incompetent and corrupt judges in India who pass very retrogressive judgments, but no one says ban the police and the law courts. By what right do they demand a ban on khaps, simply because some members have undemocratic views? Educated elite in India don’t know anything about the vital role played by these age-old institutions of self-governance.\"\n\nIn March 2010, Karnal district court ordered the execution of five perpetrators of an honor killing and imprisoning for life the khap (local caste-based council) chief who ordered the killings of Manoj Banwala (23) and Babli (19), a man and woman of the same clan who eloped and married in June 2007. Despite having been given police protection on court orders, they were kidnapped; their mutilated bodies were found a week later in an irrigation canal. In 2013, a young couple who were planning to marry were murdered in Garnauthi village, Haryana, due to having a love affair. The woman, Nidhi, was beaten to death and the man, Dharmender, was dismembered alive. People in the village and neighbouring villages approved of the killings.\n\nThe Indian state of Punjab also has a large number of honor killings. According to data compiled by the Punjab Police, 34 honor killings were reported in the state between 2008 and 2010: 10 in 2008, 20 in 2009, and four in 2010. Bhagalpur in the eastern Indian state of Bihar has also been notorious for honor killings. Recent cases include a 16-year-old girl, Imrana, from Bhojpur who was set on fire inside her house in a case of what the police called 'moral vigilantism'. The victim had screamed for help for about 20 minutes before neighbours arrived, only to find her smouldering body. She was admitted to a local hospital, where she later died from her injuries. In May 2008, Jayvirsingh Bhadodiya shot his daughter Vandana Bhadodiya and struck her on the head with an axe. Honor killings occur even in Delhi.\n\nHonor killings take place in Rajasthan, too. In June 2012, a man chopped off his 20-year-old daughter's head with a sword in Rajasthan after learning that she was dating men. According to police officer, \"Omkar Singh told the police that his daughter Manju had relations with several men. He had asked her to mend her ways several times in the past. However, she did not pay heed. Out of pure rage, he chopped off her head with the sword\".\n\nIn 1990 the National Commission for Women set up a statutory body in order to address the issues of honor killings among some ethnic groups in North India. This body reviewed constitutional, legal and other provisions as well as challenges women face. The NCW's activism has contributed significantly towards the reduction of honor killings in rural areas of North India. According to Pakistani activists Hina Jilani and Eman M Ahmed, Indian women are considerably better protected against honor killings by Indian law and government than Pakistani women, and they have suggested that governments of countries affected by honor killings use Indian law as a model in order to prevent honor killings in their respective societies.\n\nIn June 2010, scrutinising the increasing number of honor killings, the Supreme Court of India demanded responses about honor killing prevention from the federal government and the state governments of Punjab, Haryana, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Himachal Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh.\n\nAlarmed by the rise of honor killings, the Government planned to bring a bill in the Monsoon Session of Parliament July 2010 to provide for deterrent punishment for 'honor' killings.\n\nIn 2000 Jaswinder Kaur Sidhu (nicknamed Jassi), a Canadian Punjabi who married rickshaw driver Sukhwinder Singh Sidhu (nicknamed Mithu) against her family's wishes, was brutally murdered in India following orders from her mother and uncle in Canada so that \"the family honor was restored\". Her body was found in an irrigation canal. Mithu was kidnapped, beaten and left to die, but survived.\n\nIn Pakistan honor killings are known locally as \"karo-kari\". An Amnesty International report noted \"the failure of the authorities to prevent these killings by investigating and punishing the perpetrators.\" \nOfficial data puts the number of women killed in honor killings in 2015 at nearly 1,100. Recent cases include that of three teenage girls who were buried alive after refusing arranged marriages. Another case was that of Taslim Khatoon Solangi, 17, of Hajna Shah village in Khairpur district, which was widely reported after her father, 57-year-old Gul Sher Solangi, publicized the case. He alleged his eight-months-pregnant daughter was tortured and killed on 7 March on the orders of her father-in-law, who accused her of carrying a child conceived out of wedlock. Statistically, honor killings have a high level of support in Pakistan's rural society, despite widespread condemnation from human rights groups. In 2002 alone over 382 people, about 245 women and 137 men, became victims of honor killings in the Sindh province of Pakistan. Over the course of six years, more than 4,000 women have died as victims of honor killings in Pakistan from 1999 to 2004. In 2005 the average annual number of honor killings for the whole nation was stated to be more than 1,000 per year.\n\nA 2009 study by Muazzam Nasrullah et al. reported a total of 1,957 honor crime victims reported in Pakistan's newspapers from 2004 to 2007. Of those killed, 18% were below the age of 18 years, and 88% were married. Husbands, brothers and close relatives were direct perpetrators of 79% of the honor crimes reported by mainstream media. The method used for honor crime included firearms (most common), stabbing, axe and strangulation.\n\nAccording to women's rights advocates, \"the concepts of women as property, and of honor, are so deeply entrenched in the social, political and economic fabric of Pakistan that the government mostly ignores the regular occurrences of women being killed and maimed by their families.\" Frequently, women killed in honor killings are recorded as having committed suicide or died in accidents. Savitri Goonesekere states that Islamic leaders in Pakistan use religious justifications for sanctioning honor killings.\n\nOn 27 May 2014, a pregnant woman was stoned to death by her own family in front of a Pakistani high court for marrying the man she loved. \"I killed my daughter as she had insulted all of our family by marrying a man without our consent, and I have no regret over it,\" the father reportedly told the police investigator. Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif described the stoning as \"totally unacceptable,\" and ordered the chief minister of Punjab province to provide an immediate report. He demanded to know why police did nothing, despite the killing taking place outside one of the country's top courts, in the presence of police. Scholars suggest that the Islamic law doctrine of Qisas and Diyya encourages honor killings, particularly against females, as well as allows the murderer to go unpunished. In 2016, Pakistan repealed the loophole which allowed the perpetrators of honour killings to avoid punishment by seeking forgiveness for the crime from another family member, and thus be legally pardoned.\n\nIn January 2017 a Pakistani mother was sentenced to death for killing her daughter that had married against her family’s wishes.\n\nThroughout the 20th century, husbands have used the \"legitimate defense of their honor\" (\"legítima defesa da honra\") as justification for adultery-related killings in court cases. Although this defense was not explicitly stipulated in the 20th century Criminal Code, it has been successfully pleaded by lawyers throughout the 20th century, in particular in the interior of the country, though less so in the coastal big cities. In 1991 Brazil's Supreme Court explicitly rejected the \"honor defense\" as having no basis in Brazilian law.\n\nA 2007 study by Dr. Amin Muhammad and Dr. Sujay Patel of Memorial University, Canada, investigated how the practice of honor killings has been brought to Canada. The report explained that \"When people come and settle in Canada they can bring their traditions and forcefully follow them. In some cultures, people feel that some boundaries are never to be crossed, and if someone would violate those practices or go against them, then killing is justified to them.\" The report noted that \"In different cultures, they can get away without being punished—the courts actually sanction them under religious contexts\". The report also said that the people who commit these crimes are usually mentally ill, and that the mental health aspect is often ignored by Western observers because of a lack of understanding of the insufficiently developed state of mental healthcare in developing countries in which honor killings are prevalent.\n\nCanada has been host to a number of high-profile killings, including the murder of Jaswinder Kaur Sidhu, the murder of Amandeep Atwal, the double murder of Khatera Sadiqi and her fiancé, and the Shafia family murders.\n\nHonor killings have become such a pressing issue in Canada that the Canadian citizenship study guide mentions it specifically, saying, \"Canada's openness and generosity do not extend to barbaric cultural practices that tolerate spousal abuse, 'honour killings', female genital mutilation, forced marriage or other gender-based violence.\"\n\nPhyllis Chesler argues that the U.S., as well as Canada, do not have proper measures in place to fight against honor killings, and they do not recognize these murders as a specific form of violence, distinct from other domestic murders, due to fear of being labeled \"culturally insensitive\". According to her, this often prevents government officials in the United States and the media from identifying and accurately reporting these incidents as \"honor killings\" when they occur. Failing to accurately describe the problem makes it more difficult to develop public policies to address it, she argues.\n\nShe also writes that, although there are not many cases of honor killing within the United States, the overwhelming majority of honor killings are perpetrated by Muslims against Muslims (90% of honor killings known to have taken place in Europe and the United States from 1998 to 2008). In these documented cases the victims were murdered because they were believed to have acted in a way that was against the religion of the family. In every case, the perpetrators view their victims as having violated rules of religious conduct and they act without remorse.\n\nSeveral honor killings have occurred in the U.S. during recent years. In 1989, in St. Louis, Missouri, 16-year-old Palestinan \"Tina\" Isa was murdered by her Palestinian father with the aid of his wife. Her parents were dissatisfied with her \"westernized\" lifestyle. In 2008, in Georgia, 25-year-old Sandeela Kanwal was killed by her Pakistani father for refusing an arranged marriage. Amina and Sarah Said, two teenage sisters from Texas were killed, allegedly by their Egyptian father, Yaser Abdel Said, who is still at large. Yaser is currently on the FBI Ten Most Wanted Fugitives list, and he has been on the list since 10 December 2014. Aasiya Zubair was, together with her husband Muzzammil Hassan, the founder and owner of Bridges TV, the first American Muslim English-language television network. She was killed by her husband in 2009. Phyllis Chesler argues that this crime was an honor killing. In 2009, in Arizona, Noor Almaleki, aged 20, was killed by her father, an Iraqi immigrant, because she had refused an arranged marriage and was living with her boyfriend.\n\nThe extent of honor-based violence in the U.S. is not known, because no official data is collected. There is controversy about the reasons why such violence occurs, and about the extent to which culture, religion, and views on women cause these incidents.\n\nCrimes of passion within Latin America have also been compared to honor killings. Similar to honor killings, crimes of passion often feature the murder of a woman by a husband, family member, or boyfriend and the crime is often condoned or sanctioned. In Peru, for example, 70 percent of the murders of women in one year were committed by a husband, boyfriend or lover, and most often jealousy or suspicions of infidelity are cited as the reasons for the murders. The law of Uruguay continues to tolerate crimes of passion due to adultery. However, \"while crimes of passion may be seen as somewhat premeditated to a certain extent, honour killings are usually deliberate, well planned and premeditated acts when a person kills a female relative ostensibly to uphold his honour.\"\n\nThe view that violence can be justified in the name of honor and shame exists traditionally in Latin American societies, and machismo is often described as a code of honor. While some ideas originated in the Spanish colonial culture, others predate it: in the early history of Peru, the laws of the Incas allowed husbands to starve their wives to death if they committed adultery, while Aztec laws in early Mexico stipulated stoning or strangulation as punishment for female adultery.\n\nUntil a few decades ago, the marriage of a girl or woman to the man who had raped her was considered a \"solution\" to the incident in order to restore her family's 'honor'. Indeed, although laws that exonerate the perpetrator of rape if he marries his victim after the rape are often associated with the Middle East, such laws were very common around the world until the second half of the 20th century, and as late as 1997, 14 Latin American countries had such laws, although most of these Latin American countries have since abolished them. Such laws were ended in Mexico in 1991, El Salvador in 1996, Colombia in 1997, Peru in 1999, Chile in 1999, Brazil in 2005, Uruguay in 2005, Guatemala in 2006, Costa Rica in 2007, Panama in 2008, Nicaragua in 2008, Argentina in 2012, and Ecuador in 2014.\n\nJim Spigelman (who served as Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of New South Wales from 19 May 1998 until 31 May 2011) said that Australia's increasing diversity was creating conflicts about how to deal with the customs and traditions of immigrant populations. He said:\"There are important racial, ethnic and religious minorities in Australia who come from nations with sexist traditions which, in some respects, are even more pervasive than those of the West.\" He said that honor crimes, forced marriages and other violent acts against women were becoming a problem in Australia.\n\nIn 2010, in New South Wales, Indonesian born Hazairin Iskandar and his son killed the lover of Iskandar's wife. Iskandar stabbed the victim with a knife while his son bashed him with a hammer. The court was told that the reason for the murder was the perpetrators' belief that extramarital affairs were against their religion; and that the murder was carried out to protect the honor of the family and was a \"pre-planned, premeditated and executed killing\". The judge said that: \"No society or culture that regards itself as civilized can tolerate to any extent, or make any allowance for, the killing of another person for such an amorphous concept as honour\".\n\nPela Atroshi was a Kurdish 19-year-old girl who was killed by her uncle in Iraqi Kurdistan in 1999. The decision to kill her was taken by a council of her male relatives, led by Pela's grandfather, Abdulmajid Atroshi, who lived in Australia. One of his sons, Shivan Atroshi, who helped with the murder, also lived in Australia. Pela Atroshi was living in Sweden, but was taken by family members to Iraqi Kurdistan to be killed, as ordered by a family council of male relatives living in Sweden and Australia, because they claimed she had tarnished the family honor. Pela Atroshi's murder was officially deemed an honor killing by authorities.\n\nHonor killings are condemned as a serious human rights violation and are addressed by several international instruments. The Council of Europe Convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence addresses this issue. Article 42 reads:\n\nThe World Health Organization (WHO) addressed the issue of honor killings and stated: \"Murders of women to 'save the family honour' are among the most tragic consequences and explicit illustrations of embedded, culturally accepted discrimination against women and girls.\" According to the UNODC: \"Honour crimes, including killing, are one of history's oldest forms of gender-based violence. It assumes that a woman's behaviour casts a reflection on the family and the community. ... In some communities, a father, brother or cousin will publicly take pride in a murder committed in order to preserve the 'honour' of a family. In some such cases, local justice officials may side with the family and take no formal action to prevent similar deaths.\"\n\nLegislation on this issue varies, but today the vast majority of countries no longer allow a husband to legally kill a wife for adultery (although adultery itself continues to be punishable by death in some countries) or to commit other forms of honor killings. However, in many places, adultery and other \"immoral\" sexual behaviors by female family members can be considered mitigating circumstances in case when they are killed, leading to significantly shorter sentences.\n\nIn the Western world, a country that is often associated with \"crimes of passion\" and adultery related violence is France, and indeed, recent surveys have shown French public to be more accepting of these practices than the public in other countries. One 2008 Gallup survey compared the views of the French, German and British public and those of French, German and British Muslims on several social issues: 4% of French public said \"honor killings\" were \"morally acceptable\" and 8% of French public said \"crimes of passion\" were \"morally acceptable\"; honor killings were seen as acceptable by 1% of German public and also 1% of British public; crimes of passion were seen as acceptable by 1% of German public and 2% of British public. Among Muslims 5% in Paris, 3% in Berlin and 3% in London saw honor killings as acceptable, and 4% in Paris (less than French public), 1% in Berlin and 3% in London saw crimes of passion as acceptable.\n\nAccording to the report of the United Nations Special Rapporteur submitted to the 58th session of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights in 2002 concerning cultural practices in the family that reflect violence against women (E/CN.4/2002/83):\n\nThe legal aspects of honor killings in different countries are discussed below:\n\n\nActions of Pakistani police officers and judges (particularly at the lower level of the judiciary ) have, in the past, seemed to support the act of honor killings in the name of family honor. Police enforcement, in situations of admitted murder, do not always take action against the perpetrator. Also, judges in Pakistan (particularly at the lower level of the judiciary), rather than ruling cases with gender equality in mind, also seem to reinforce inequality and in some cases sanction the murder of women considered dishonorable. Often, a suspected honor killing never even reaches court, but in cases where they do, the alleged killer is often not charged or is given a reduced sentence of three to four years in jail. In a case study of 150 honor killings, the proceeding judges rejected only eight of claims that the women were killed for honor. The rest were sentenced lightly. In many cases in Pakistan, one of the reasons honor killing cases never make it to the courts, is because, according to some lawyers and women's right activists, Pakistani law enforcement do not get involved. Under the encouragement of the killer, police often declare the killing as a domestic case that warrants no involvement. In other cases, the women and victims are too afraid to speak up or press charges. Police officials, however, claim that these cases are never brought to them, or are not major enough to be pursued on a large scale. The general indifference to the issue of honour killing within Pakistan is due to a deep-rooted gender bias in law, the police force, and the judiciary. In its report, \"Pakistan: Honor Killings of Girls and Women\", published in September 1999, Amnesty International criticized governmental indifference and called for state responsibility in protecting human rights of female victims. To elaborate, Amnesty strongly requested the Government of Pakistan to take 1) legal, 2) preventive, and 3) protective measures. First of all, legal measures refer to a modification of the government's criminal laws to guarantee equal legal protection of females. On top of that, Amnesty insisted the government to assure legal access for the victims of crime in the name of honor. When it comes to preventive measures, Amnesty underlined the critical need to promote public awareness through the means of media, education, and public announcements. Finally, protective measures include ensuring a safe environment for activists, lawyers, and women's group to facilitate eradication of honor killings. Also, Amnesty argued for the expansion of victim support services such as shelters.\n\nKremlin-appointed Chechen president Ramzan Kadyrov said that honor killings were perpetrated on those who deserved to die. He said that those who are killed have \"loose morals\" and are rightfully shot by relatives in honor killings. He did not vilify women alone but added that \"If a woman runs around and if a man runs around with her, both of them are killed.\"\n\nIn 2007, a famous Norwegian Supreme Court advocate stated that he wanted the punishment for the killing from 17 years in prison to 15 years in the case of honor killings practiced in Norway. He explained that the Norwegian public did not understand other cultures who practiced honor killings, or understand their thinking, and that Norwegian culture \"is self-righteous\".\n\nIn 2008, Israr Ullah Zehri, a Pakistani politician in Balochistan, defended the honor killings of five women belonging to the Umrani tribe by a relative of a local Umrani politician. Zehri defended the killings in Parliament and asked his fellow legislators not to make a fuss about the incident. He said, \"These are centuries-old traditions, and I will continue to defend them. Only those who indulge in immoral acts should be afraid.\"\n\nNilofar Bakhtiar, Minister for Tourism and Advisor to Pakistan Prime Minister on Women's Affairs, who had struggled against the honor killing in Pakistan, resigned in April 2007 after the clerics accused her of bringing shame to Pakistan by para-jumping with a male and hugging him after landing.\n\n\"This is an incomplete list of notable victims of Honor killing\". \"See also \"\n\nHonor killings are, along with dowry killings (mostly in South Asia), gang-related killings of women as revenge (killings of female members of rival gang members' families – primarily, but not only, in Latin America) and witchcraft accusation killings (Africa, Oceania) some of the most recognized forms of gender based killings.\n\nHuman rights advocates have compared \"honor killings\" to \"crimes of passion\" in Latin America (which are sometimes treated extremely leniently) and also to the killing of women for lack of dowry in India.\n\nSome commentators have stressed that the focus on honor killings should not lead to ignoring other forms of gender-based killings of women, in particular those from Latin America ('crimes of passion' and gang related killings); the murder rate of women in this region being extremely high, with El Salvador being reported as the country with the highest murder rate of women in the world. In 2002, Widney Brown, advocacy director for Human Rights Watch, stated that \"crimes of passion have a similar dynamic in that the women are killed by male family members and the crimes are perceived as excusable or understandable\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2998187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2998187", "title": "International Balloon Festival of Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu", "text": "International Balloon Festival of Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu\n\nThe International Balloon Festival of Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu is the largest hot air balloon festival in Canada. It is held each August in Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu, Quebec, about 40 minutes southeast of Montreal and about halfway between Montreal and Vermont.\n\nThe festival is situated at the Saint-Jean Airport and weather permitting (no storm activity detected within range, , and winds above ), there are two flight launches each day: a morning flight at 6:00 am and an evening flight between 6:00 and 7:00 pm. Other festival activities include amusement rides, musical and comedy shows and \"Nuits magiques\" (tethered night flights).\n\n"}
{"id": "16730956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16730956", "title": "Kazuo Uzuki", "text": "Kazuo Uzuki\n\nKazuo Uzuki is the subject of a baseball card issued by Topps as an April Fools' Day hoax. The card was released on February 6, 2008 of a supposed high school superstar named Kazuo \"The Uzi\" Uzuki. In Japanese, Kazuo Uzuki means \"the first son of April.\" The person actually depicted on the card was a New York University law student named Sensen Lin.\n\nHe is listed as 5'11\" and 165 lbs and could supposedly throw a 104 mph pitch. According to the card, Uzuki would be the first Japanese player to go straight from high school in Japan into professional baseball in the United States.\n\nThe Uzuki rookie card was found in one out of every 72 packs of cards. When the card was released, people did not know that it was a joke and the card was trading for around $10–$15 on eBay. It was even the \"card of the day\" when it was released.\n\nAlso, the card said that an MLB scout called him the best pitching prospect in 30 years and he is getting a astronomical deal. Also, the card says he threw 17 strikeouts in 7 innings at a WBC squad trial.\n\n"}
{"id": "47074747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47074747", "title": "Lake Fire", "text": "Lake Fire\n\nThe Lake Fire was a wildfire that burned in the San Bernardino National Forest. The fire started on June 17, 2015 and burned over 31,359 acres before it was fully contained on July 21, 2015.\n"}
{"id": "21181063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21181063", "title": "Lincoln Bible", "text": "Lincoln Bible\n\nThe Lincoln Bible is the Bible owned by President Abraham Lincoln, and was later used by Barack Obama at his inaugurations in 2009 and 2013, as well as the inauguration of Donald Trump in 2017. The Lincoln family donated the Bible to the Library of Congress, which includes it in their collection.\n\nThe Bible is an Oxford University Press edition of the King James Bible. Published in 1853, it has 1280 pages, and measures approximately long by wide, and thick, and is bound in burgundy red velvet with gilt edges. The back flyleaf of the Bible bears the seal of the Supreme Court of the United States along with a record of the 1861 inauguration. The Bible is not a rare edition, and a similar Bible lacking the Lincoln Bible's historical significance would be valued at approximately $30 or $40.\n\nAbraham Lincoln reached Washington, D.C. for his inauguration in 1861. His belongings, including his Bible, had yet to arrive. William Thomas Carroll, the clerk of the U.S. Supreme Court, fetched a Bible that he kept for official use. This became the Lincoln Bible. Although the Bible remained with Carroll for a time, the Lincolns acquired it at an unknown time. The Bible later remained with the Lincoln family up until 1928, at which point Mary Eunice Harlan, the widow of Robert Todd Lincoln, donated it to the Library of Congress. When the Bible was donated, it contained markers at the 31st chapter of the Book of Deuteronomy and the fourth chapter of the Book of Hosea. Barack Obama chose this Bible for his inaugurations in 2009 and 2013. The Bible was on display at the Library of Congress until 2009 in a celebration of the bicentennial of Lincoln's birth. The Bible was used to swear in Carla Hayden as the 14th Librarian of Congress on September 14, 2016. Donald Trump was sworn in on this Bible and his childhood Bible at his inauguration on January 20, 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48003438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48003438", "title": "Lucy (spacecraft)", "text": "Lucy (spacecraft)\n\nLucy is a planned NASA space probe that will tour five Jupiter trojans, asteroids which share Jupiter's orbit around the Sun, orbiting either ahead of or behind the planet. All will be fly-by missions.\n\nOn 4 January 2017, \"Lucy\" was chosen, along with the \"Psyche\" mission, as NASA's Discovery Program missions 13 and 14 respectively.\n\nThe mission is named after the 'Lucy' hominin skeleton, because the study of Trojans could reveal the \"fossils of planet formation\": materials that clumped together in the early history of the Solar System to form planets and other bodies. The Australopithecus itself was named for a Beatles song, \"Lucy in the Sky with Diamonds\".\n\n\"Lucy\" is planned to launch in 2021 and will arrive at the Trojan cloud (a group of asteroids that orbits about 60° ahead of Jupiter) in 2027, where it will fly by four Trojans, 3548 Eurybates, 15094 Polymele, 11351 Leucus, and 21900 Orus. After these flybys, \"Lucy\" will return to the vicinity of the Earth whereupon it will receive a gravity assist to take it to the Trojan cloud (which trails about 60° behind Jupiter), where it will visit the binary Trojan 617 Patroclus with its satellite Menoetius. \"Lucy\" will also fly by the inner main-belt asteroid 52246 Donaldjohanson, which was named for the discoverer of the Lucy hominin fossil.\n\nThree instruments comprise the payload: a high-resolution visible imager, an optical and near-infrared imaging spectrometer and a thermal infrared spectrometer.\n\nHarold F. Levison of the Southwest Research Institute in Boulder, Colorado is the Principal Investigator with Catherine Olkin of Southwest Research Institute as the mission's Deputy Principal Investigator. NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center will manage the project.\n\nExploration of Jupiter Trojans was one of the high priority goals outlined in the Planetary Science Decadal Survey.\n\nJupiter Trojans have been observed by ground-based telescopes and the Wide-field Infrared Survey Explorer to be \"dark with ... surfaces that reflect little sunlight\". Jupiter is from the Sun, or about five times the Earth-Sun distance. The Jupiter Trojans are at a similar distance but can be somewhat farther or closer to the Sun depending on where they are in their orbits. There may be as many Trojans as there are asteroids in the asteroid belt.\n\n\"Lucy\" was submitted as part of a call for proposals for the next mission(s) for Discovery Program that closed in February 2015. Proposals had to be ready to launch by the end of 2021. 28 proposals were received in all.\n\nOn 30 September 2015, \"Lucy\" was selected as one of five finalist missions, each of which received 3 million USD to produce more in-depth concept design studies and analyses. Its fellow finalists were \"DAVINCI\", NEOCam, \"Psyche\" and \"VERITAS\". On 4 January 2017, two of the five proposals—\"Lucy\" and \"Psyche\"—were selected for development and launch.\n\nInstrumentation includes:\n\nTargets with their flyby dates include:\n\n"}
{"id": "8208043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8208043", "title": "MAGFest", "text": "MAGFest\n\nMAGFest (Music and Gaming Festival, originally the Mid-Atlantic Gaming Festival) is an annual festival held in the Washington metropolitan area that celebrates video games and video game music, as well as their surrounding culture. MAGFest's primary features are a large open video gaming room, a hall of arcade cabinets, concerts by chiptune artists and video game cover bands, and a Bring Your Own Computer (BYOC) LAN Party.\n\nMAGFest's arcade hall is open 24 hours a day. The exhibition hall contains hundreds of full size arcade cabinets, and even pinball machines that are donated for the event from local collectors and vending companies. All arcades are set to play for free on admission price, and are monitored 24 hours a day by a maintenance and technical staff. The arcade hall is decked out with specialty lighting, laser lighting, and music to bring back the golden age of arcades. The game selection ranges from 1970's vintage black and white games, vector monitors games, Cathode Ray Tube games, modern/Indie arcades; as well as contemporary Japanese candy cabinets and Japanese dance/music games like Dance Dance Revolution and Taiko No Tatsujin. Arcades range from various manufacturers like Atari, Nintendo, Taito, Midway, Williams, Capcom, Sega, ICE, Rock Ola, and Exidy. Games challenge various abilities including driving simulators, shooting simulators, labyrinth games, and just plain fun games. There are multiple events and tournaments that occur during the event that allow you to challenge dozens of others for prizes and fame. They also host a ten-game tournament that spans the entire event which allows players to openly compete on 10 classic arcade games to work on getting the highest scores possible with the ultimate prize being given to the player who scores the most points total on all games.\n\nThere is also a console hall open 24 hours a day that houses over a hundred televisions and attached game consoles, where guests are invited to play at will and each station's game is periodically swapped with a different one from a game library. Attendees are encouraged to bring their own controllers or fighting game pads to compete with. Consoles range from vintage Atari 2600, Intellivision style games all the way through the years to the most current and up to date Xbox/PS/Nintendo systems and games. Even steam titles are playable and indie game developers have been known to introduce or beta test new games at the events. Tournaments are performed frequently throughout the event on several platforms and game types for prizes.\n\nThe concert areas host nightly performances in multiple rooms simultaneously of famous and up and coming bands. Music is themed, but not limited to; Chip Tunes, video game music, and related works. Many luminaries of video game music fan culture have performed at MAGFest. Previous bands include Machinae Supremacy, Earthbound Papas, Minibosses, Powerglove, the NESkimos, the Advantage and Chromelodeon.\n\nOther major attractions include guest panels from the video game industry such as Sid Meier, Jon St. John and Nobuo Uematsu, celebrated composer for many of the games in the Final Fantasy series. In addition, the fan remixing community is well represented with sites such as OverClocked ReMix. Filmmakers such as X-Strike Studios, Main Moon Productions, PBC Productions, and There Will Be Brawl have also appeared at the event. MAGFest has also included intellectually driven panels such as \"Game Studies 101\" where attendees were given a basic introduction to the manner in which scholars study video games.\n\nAdditionally, MAGFest features DJ battles, a jam space, an open mic stage, a large LAN party environment, a film screening room, a tabletop gaming room, vendors, contests like \"name-that-tune,\" and a video game \"challenge booth\" where players can \"try to tackle insanely difficult gaming feats for prizes of all sorts.\"\n\nThe \"MAGFest is a donut\" and \"MAGFest is not a donut\" memes began when a man with username \"MAGFest\" posted \"I am not a donut\" after hearing a comparison of donuts to people. Today MAGFest uses a donut as a mascot and sells T-shirts featuring donuts. \n\n"}
{"id": "11055980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11055980", "title": "Mark Boslough", "text": "Mark Boslough\n\nMark Boslough is a physicist. He was a member of the technical staff at Sandia National Laboratories, an adjunct professor at University of New Mexico, and a fellow of the Committee for Skeptical Inquiry. He is an expert in the study of planetary impacts and global catastrophes. Due to his work in this field, was named in his honor.\n\nOn March 13, 2018, Boslough announced he was a candidate for the New Mexico House of Representatives and would be challenging the Republican incumbent William Rehm in the primary election.\"\n\nBoslough grew up in Broomfield, Colorado. He holds a B.S. in physics at Colorado State University, and an MS and PhD in applied physics at the California Institute of Technology.\n\nAn expert on planetary impacts and global catastrophes, Boslough's work on airbursts challenged the conventional view of asteroid collision risk and is now widely accepted by the scientific community. He was the first scientist to suggest that the Libyan Desert Glass was formed by melting due to overhead heating from an airburst. His hypothesis was popularized by the documentaries \"Tutunkhamun's Fireball\" (BBC), (recipient of Discover Magazine's Top 100 Science Stories of 2006) and Ancient Asteroid National Geographic. which provided inspiration for the unorthodox and controversial notion that a large airburst over North America caused an abrupt climate change mass extinction. However, Boslough has been a leading critic of the Younger Dryas impact hypothesis, arguing among other things that the proponents have misinterpreted his airburst models. He appeared as a skeptic on the \"Last Extinction\" Nova, (recipient of AAAS Kavli award for best science documentary of 2009).\n\nIn 2011, he presented a paper at the IAA Planetary Defense Conference in Bucharest, Romania, in which he stated, \"It is virtually certain (probability > 99%) that the next destructive NEO event will be an airburst.\" This prediction proved true less than two years later, on Feb. 15, 2013, when an airburst over Chelyabinsk, Russia injured more than 1000 people. Boslough was among the first western scientists to arrive in Chelyabinsk, where he did field research and accompanied a production crew filming Meteor Strike for NOVA. Most of the documentaries are focused on his impact and airburst modeling.\n\nIn February 2011, it was announced that Boslough had been elected a fellow of the Committee for Skeptical Inquiry.\n\nIn 2014, Boslough delivered a major address on \"death plunge\" asteroids that can pose a sudden danger to Earth at the second Starmus Festival in the Canary Islands. Also in 2014 he talks about his interest in asteroids to Toni Feder of Physics Today: \"In his childhood home in Colorado, says Boslough, \"there was a left-brain right-brain thing going on, with fiction and nonfiction in the same household.\"\n\nIn recognition of Boslough's work in the field of planetary impacts and global catastrophes, Asteroid 73520 Boslough (2003 MB1) was named in his honor.\n\nBoslough is a vocal critic of pseudoscience and anti-science and has written about climate change denial in the Skeptical Inquirer in reference to \"Climategate\" conspiracy theories. He is also active in uncovering scientific misconduct.\n\nAn advocate of using humor to defend science, he once published an essay as an April Fool's Day joke in the April, 1998 issue of the New Mexicans for Science and Reason newsletter to poke fun at New Mexico's legislature for attempting to require schools to teach creationism. He wrote that the Alabama state legislature had voted to change the value of the mathematical constant pi from 3.14159 to the 'Biblical value' of 3.0. The article was posted on a newsgroup and passed around to people via email, causing an outrage. When people started calling the Alabama legislature to protest, the joke was revealed. National Geographic News highlighted Boslough's story when it compiled a list of \"some of the more memorable hoaxes in recent history.\" It was elevated by the Museum of Hoaxes to number seven on its \"Top 100 April Fools Hoaxes of All Time\" list. It eventually took on a new existence as an urban legend and has had to be debunked by Snopes.\n\nHe also demonstrated that emailed lists of \"Darwin Awards\" include fake stories. After receiving an annual list of unfortunate deaths at the end of 1998, he fabricated his own over-the-top fictional Darwin Award recipient, appended it, and forwarded the list to his friends. That story also went viral, was printed as an actual event by the Denver Post, leading to another debunking by Snopes.\n\n\nIn a tweet on March 13, 2018, Boslough announced he was a candidate for the New Mexico House of Representatives, saying \"I will be on the primary ballot on June 5, 2018. I am challenging the incumbent NRA-supported candidate, William Rehm, in NM district 31.\" According to the \"New Mexico Political Report\":\n\nBoslough is an advocate of laws to reform the 19th-century law known as RS 2477 to prevent it from being used to take private property for public use. His fight turned into a prolonged battle with off-road clubs pulling out boulders and seedlings that Boslough used to try and restore his property. He also received verbal and physical threats before he successfully defended a lawsuit (Ramey v. Boslough) in which the ownership of a four-wheel-drive road across his Colorado property was challenged by a plaintiff who was backed by off-road recreation interests. He used this experience to argue that the \"right to radiate\" is a prescriptive private property right, and that carbon polluters must compensate individuals for degrading their personal cooling capacity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37360587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37360587", "title": "McDonald's Gospelfest", "text": "McDonald's Gospelfest\n\nThe McDonald's Gospelfest is an annual gospel music festival, talent competition, and fundraiser in Newark, New Jersey. The event, inaugurated in 1983, and sponsored by McDonald's, takes place in spring and has been held at the Prudential Center since 2008. The closing night contest and ceremony is produced, directed, and hosted by A. Curtis Farrow. The event, which can take several hours, has been recorded and broadcast variously on WABC-TV and WWOR-TV. Involving more a thousand performers it has been described as the \"largest collection of gospel talent ever assembled\" and the \"most spectacular gospel celebration in the nation\". The event is followed up by McDonald's Inspiration Celebration which makes a national tour.\n\nMcDonald's Gospelfest originated in 1983 under the auspices of the McDonald's Corporation and the McDonald's Tri-State Owners' Association. The event has been an important fundraising event which supports education opportunities within local communities. and has awarded millions of dollars in scholarship money. Over the years the competition performances have taken place at Palace Theater, the Hammerstein Ballroom, Westbury Music Fair, Newark Symphony Hall, Madison Square Garden, and New York City Center. Since 2008, the 25th incarnation of the event, it has been held at Prudential Center. Parts of the show have been broadcast by WABC, which in 2000 and 2001 garnered New York Emmy Awards for WABC in the \"Religious Programming\" category. The show is since 2008 televised on WWOR-TV. The Gospelfest is produced by Newark-based Irving Street Rep and is directed and hosted by its founder, A. Curtis Farrow.\n\nGreater Newark has long tradition of gospel and jazz, having begun in the 1910s with the Coleman Brothers. Savoy Records gave many early artists opportunities to record.\nAlex Bradford was musical director of the Abyssinian Baptist Church Cissy Houston, a member of The Drinkard Singers and The Sweet Inspirations and mentor to numerous singers, has long been a driving force behind the New Hope Baptist Church and the Gospelfest. Newark Symphony Hall is home to the NSH Special Ensemble, which was selected as the Gospelfest Youth Choir Winner in 2011, and hosts the \"When Praise Goes Up!\" annual gospel showcase. The affiliated Newark Boys Chorus also includes spirals in its repertory. In 1980, the former movie palace Stanley Theater became the Newark Gospel Tabernacle. Newark is one of seven cities nationwide to host the touring gospel music competition \"How Sweet the Sound\".\n\nAuditions and semi-finalist competitions are held in tri-state New York-New Jersey-Connecticut each year prior to the Gospelfest. There are fourteen categories:\n\nThe 36th Annual McDonald's Gospelfest took place at Newark Symphony Hall on Saturday, May 12th It featured a line-up of gospel artists including Bishop Hezekiah Walker, Jekalyn Carr, VaShawn Mitchell, Le'Andria Johnson, Wes Morgan, Cissy Houston, Melba Moore, and Keith \"Wonderboy\" Johnson.\n\nContinuing Mother’s Day weekend tradition Saturday, May 13. This year’s event features Donnie McClurkin, Erica Campbell, Hezekiah Walker, Israel Houghton, Bishop Paul Morton, Fantasia Barrino, Anthony Brown & Group Therapy and Greater Allen AME Cathedral.\n\nSaturday, May 7, 2016, on Mother’s Day Weekend, featuring Yolanda Adams, Tamela Mann, Bishop Hezekiah Walker & LFC, Shirley Caesar, Donnie McClurkin, Jennifer Holliday (from the original Dreamgirls), and others.\n\nMay 9, 2015 with Bishop Hezekiah Walker & LFC (Love Fellowship Choir), Ricky Dillard & New G, Mighty Clouds of Joy, the Five Blind Boys of Alabama, Mississippi Mass Choir, the Thompson Community Reunion Choir, Greater Allen AME Cathedral Mass Choir, Doc McKenzie & The Hi-Lites, and the Clark Sisters.\n\nThe 2014 Gospelfest took place on Saturday May 10 before Mothers Day. Auditions were held in January. Among those who participated are some most popular female artists in gospel: Shirley Caesar, Vickie Winans, CeCe Winans, The Clark Sisters, Dorothy Norwood, Kim Burrell, Yolanda Adams, Dottie Peoples, Tramaine Hawkins, Cissy Houston and Melba Moore.\n\nAuditions for Gospelfest 2013 took place in January The show, which lasted eight hours, took place May 11, 2013 and include performances by Aretha Franklin, Donnie McClurkin, Smokie Norful, John P. Kee and Lecrae. and Hezekiah Walker.\n\nOne thousand performers chosen from 80,000 contestants took the stage for the May 12, 2012 Mother's Day event. Among the headliners were Shirley Caesar, Donnie McClurkin, Vickie Winans, Fred Hammond, Mary Mary, Steve Harvey and Cissy Houston. The festival was also seen as a tribute to Whitney Houston, with roots in Newark, whose had died earlier in the year and whose funeral services were held at the New Hope Baptist Church.\n\nOn June 18, 2011 the Father's Day show had more than 1,100 competitors chosen from over 40,000 people who auditioned and included some of the biggest names in gospel: Kirk Franklin, Donnie McClurkin, Bishop Hezekiah Walker, James Fortune, Bobby Jones, and Bishop TD Jakes. The event was noted for showing the changing face and diversification of gospel music.\n\nThere were 80,000 audition contestants of whom 850 were chosen to perform in the event which took place on June 19, 2010. Headliners included Dionne Warwick, Roberta Flack, Hezekiah Walker, Vickie Winans, Cissy Houston, Regina Belle, J Moss. Keith Wonderboy Johnson, Kurt Carr and The Kurt Carr Singers, KOHSHI, and Bishop T.D. Jakes.\n\nOf the over 80,000 people auditioned, over 1,500 competitors took part in the Gospelfest on Saturday, June 13, 2009 . The post-competition concert included Patti LaBelle, Donnie McClurkin, CeCe Winans, Regina Belle, J. Moss, Vickie Winans, Bebe Winans, Cissy Houston, and Bishop Hezekiah Walker.\n\nOn June 14, 2008, its twenty-fifth anniversary, the Gospelfest increased its participant and audience capacity and for the first time was held in the arena recently opened Prudential Center. Kirk Franklin, Donnie McClurkin, the Mighty Clouds of Joy, Hezekiah Walker and the Love Fellowship Choir, Byron Cage, Vickie Winans and Cissy Houston were among the headliners who performed in the evening concert.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1932700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1932700", "title": "Methods of coin debasement", "text": "Methods of coin debasement\n\nCoin debasement is the act of decreasing the amount of precious metal in a coin, while continuing to circulate it at face value. This was frequently done by governments in order to inflate the amount of currency in circulation; typically, some of the precious metal was replaced by a cheaper metal when the coin was minted. But when done by an individual, precious metal was physically removed from the coin, which could then be passed on at the original face value, leaving the debaser with a profit. Coin debasement was effected by several methods, including clipping (shaving metal from the coin's circumference) and sweating (shaking the coins in a bag and collecting the dust worn off).\n\nUntil the mid-20th century, coins were often made of silver or gold, which were quite soft and prone to wear. This meant coins naturally got lighter (and thus less valuable) as they aged, so coins that had lost a small amount of bullion would go unnoticed. Modern coins are made of hard, cheap metals such as steel, copper, or a copper-nickel alloy, reducing wear and making it difficult and unprofitable to debase them.\n\nClipping is the act of shaving off a small portion of a precious metal coin for profit. Over time, the precious metal clippings could be saved up and melted into bullion or used to make new coins.\n\nCoin clipping was usually considered by the law to be of a similar magnitude to counterfeiting, and was occasionally punished by death, a fate which befell English counterfeiters Thomas Rogers and Anne Rogers in 1690.\n\nCoin clipping is why many coins have the rim of the coin marked with stripes (\"milling\" or \"reeding\"), text (\"engraving\") or some other pattern that would be destroyed if the coin were clipped. This practice is attributed to Isaac Newton, who was appointed Master of the Mint in 1699. Although the metal used in most modern fiat coins has insignificant intrinsic value, modern milling can be a deterrent to counterfeiting, an aid to the blind to distinguish different denominations, or purely decorative.\n\nIn the process of sweating, coins were placed in a bag and shaken. The bits of metal that had worn off the coins were recovered from the bottom of the bag. Sweating tended to wear the coin in a more natural way than clipping, and so was harder to detect.\n\nIf the coin was large, a hole could be punched out of the middle, and the face of the coin hammered to close up the hole. Or the coin could be sawed in half, and a plug of metal extracted from the interior. After filling the hole with a cheaper metal, the two halves would be welded back together again. Verbal references to plugged quarters and plugged dimes eventually yielded the common phrase \"not worth a plugged nickel\" (or 'plug nickel', or even a plugged cent), emphasizing the worthlessness of such a tampered coin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2910976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2910976", "title": "Morrison incident", "text": "Morrison incident\n\nThe of 1837 occurred when the American merchant ship, \"Morrison\" headed by Charles W. King, was driven away from \"sakoku\" (isolationist) Japan by cannon fire. This was carried out in accordance with the Japanese Edict to Repel Foreign Vessels of 1825.\n\nIn addition to its commercial aims, the ship was attempting to repatriate seven shipwrecked Japanese citizens who had been picked up in Macau. It also carried Christian missionaries such as Samuel Wells Williams. \n\nThe nature of the ship's mission became known one year after the event, and this resulted in increased criticism of the Edict.\n\nAmong the Japanese castaways was Yamamoto Otokichi, who became known for his role in bridging the cultural gap between Japan and rest of the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "8789558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8789558", "title": "National Service Learning Conference", "text": "National Service Learning Conference\n\nThe National Service-Learning Conference was first held in 1988 to serve as \"the largest gathering of youth and practitioners from the service-learning movement\" of the United States. The conference is a program of the National Youth Leadership Council, and is co-hosted annually by partner organizations in the state or region where it is being held. Sponsors of the conference include United Parcel Service, Best Buy, Shinnyo-en Foundation, United Way of America, and E. Ronald and Patricia Parish.\n\nThe conference focuses on service-learning, an approach to teaching and learning in which students use academic knowledge and skills to address genuine community needs. Annually, the National Service-Learning Conference convenes teachers and other service-learning practitioners, administrators, researchers, policy-makers, youth leaders, parents, program coordinators, national service members, community-based organization staffs, and corporate and foundation officers. The conference is unique because typically youth comprise more than half its attendees and are treated as equal contributors. Youth present, exhibit, and attend the three-and-a-half-day event same as their adult counterparts.\n\nEach year the conference features over 200 workshop sessions, thought-leader sessions, keynote addresses, an interactive exhibit hall with a service-learning showcase and college fair, both on- and off-site service-learning projects to allow participants an authentic learning opportunity, an administrator's academy, indigenous service-learning forum, preconference sessions for in-depth learning, as well as countless networking and professional development opportunities. Speakers from around the world present on international issues and help to ground the conference in a rapidly globalizing world. Artists, students, and community members from the host locale contribute to the ambiance of the conference each year. The hallways, exhibit hall aisles, and general spaces are transformed with spoken word, drumming, murals, paintings, etc. The conference takes on the culture of the city that hosts it, from the local food that is served to service projects that provide a deeper understanding of the host city.\n\nFor 2012, the conference was co-hosted with youthrive, the upper midwest affiliate of PeaceJam, and presented as The 23rd Annual National Service-Learning Conference & youthrive PeaceJam Leadership Conference. In addition to the full range of conference workshops and activities, the partnership with youthrive PeaceJam brought Nobel Laureate Shirin Ebadi as a featured speaker, and the week-long event ended with a celebration of Global Youth Service Day at the Mall of America.\n\nThe Service-Learning World Forum began in 2008 as a pre-conference session of the larger conference and is now an integral program of the larger conference. The World Forum engages attendees with international leaders, exploring youth service and service-learning as forces that span cultural and national boundaries, building communities and strengthening young people. World Forum attendees discover how service-learning is implemented from Ireland, to Argentina, to the Middle East, and is useful for both those working internationally and those interested in expanding their programs.\n\nEach year since 2003 the conference has highlighted the National Service-Learning Awards. Awards are presented to leaders in the field of service-learning, both youths and adults. In 2006 the first William James National Service Lifetime Achievement Award was presented by the National Youth Leadership Council in conjunction with several leading service organizations. The award was given to former Senator Harris Wofford and presented by President Bill Clinton, Kathleen Kennedy Townsend, and Dr. James Kielsmeier. Since its inception, the conference has planted trees in each city that has hosted the event, in honor of the service-learning award winners.\n\nThe October 2009 issue of \"One+\" magazine featured a four-page article highlighting the conference and its commitment to the community. One+ magazine is the official publication of Meeting Planners International. One+ is the leading voice of the meeting and event industry, reaching 30,000+ industry professionals on six continents.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1037135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1037135", "title": "Odrysian kingdom", "text": "Odrysian kingdom\n\nThe Odrysian Kingdom (; Ancient Greek: ; ) was a state union of over 40 Thracian tribes and 22 kingdoms that existed between the 5th century BC and the 1st century AD. It consisted mainly of present-day Bulgaria, spreading to parts of Southeastern Romania (Northern Dobruja), parts of Northern Greece and parts of modern-day European Turkey.\n\nIt is suggested that the kingdom had no capital. Instead, the kings may have moved between residences. A capital was the city of Odryssa (assumed to be Uscudama, modern Edirne), as inscribed on coins. Another royal residence believed to have been constructed by Cotys I (383-358 BC) is in the village of Starosel, while in 315 BC Seuthopolis was built as a capital. An early capital was Vize. The kingdom broke up and Kabyle was a co-capital by the end of the 4th century BC.\n\nThe Odrysians (Odrysae or Odrusai, Ancient Greek: Ὀδρύσαι) were one of the most powerful Thracian tribes that dwelled in the plain of the Hebrus river. This would place the tribe in the modern border area between Southeastern Bulgaria, Northeastern Greece and European Turkey, centered around the city of Edirne. The river Artescus passed through their land as well. Xenophon writes that the Odrysians held horse races and drank large amounts of wine after the burial of their dead warriors. Thucydides writes on their custom, practised by most Thracians, of giving gifts for getting things done, which was refuted by Heraclides. Herodotus was the first writer to mention the Odrysae.\n\nThrace had been part of the Persian empire since 516 BC during the rule of Darius the Great, and was re-subjugated by Mardonius in 492 BC. During Persian rule, it made part of the Skudra satrapy (province). Parts were occupied by Scythians and Greek colonists earlier besides the numerous later invasions.\n\nThe Odrysian state was the first Thracian kingdom that acquired power in the region, by the unification of many Thracian tribes under a single ruler, King Teres, probably in the 470s BC after the Persian defeat in Greece.\nInitially, during the reign of Teres or Sitalces the state was at its zenith and extended from the Black Sea to the east, Danube to the north, the region populated with the tribe called Triballi to the north-west, and the basin of the river Strymon to the south-west and towards the Aegean - present-day Bulgaria, Romanian Dobruja, Turkish East Thrace and Greek Western Thrace between the Hebrus and the Strymon, except the Aegean and Black seas coasts mostly occupied by Greek cities. Sovereignty was never exercised over all of its lands as it varied in relation to tribal politics.\n\nHistorian Z.H. Archibald writes:\n\n\"The Odrysians created the first state entity which superseded the tribal system in the east Balkan peninsula. Their kings were usually known to the outside world as kings of Thrace, although their power did not extend by any means to all Thracian tribes. Even within the confines of their kingdom the nature of royal power remained fluid, its definition subject to the dictates of geography, social relationships, and circumstance\"\nThis large territory was populated with a number of Thracian and Daco-Moesian tribes that united under the reign of a common ruler, and began to implement common internal and external policies. These were favorable conditions for overcoming the tribal divisions, which could lead gradually to the formation of a more stable ethnic community. This was not realised and the period of power of the Odrysian kingdom was brief. Despite the attempts of the Odrysian kings to bolster their central power, the separatist tendencies were very strong. Odrysian military strength was based on intra-tribal elites making the kingdom prone to fragmentation. Some tribes were rioting constantly and tried to separate, while others remained outside the borders of the kingdom. At the end of the 5th and the beginning of the 4th century BC, as a result of conflicts, the Odrysian kingdom split into three parts. The political and military decline continued, while Macedonia was rising as a dangerous and ambitious neighbour.\n\nAccording to the Greek historians Herodotus and Thucydides, a royal dynasty emerged from among the Odrysian tribe in Thrace around the end of the 5th century BC, which came to dominate much of the area and peoples between the Danube and the Aegean for the next century. Later writers, royal coin issues, and inscriptions indicate the survival of this dynasty into the early 1st century AD, although its overt political influence declined progressively first under Persian, Macedonian, later Roman, encroachment. Despite their demise, the period of Odrysian rule was of decisive importance for the future character of south-eastern Europe, under the Roman Empire and beyond.\n\nTeres' son, Sitalces, proved to be a good military leader, forcing the tribes that defected the alliance to acknowledge his sovereignty. The rich state that spread from the Danube to the Aegean built roads to develop trade and built a powerful army. In 429 BC, Sitalces allied himself with the Athenians and organized a massive campaign against the Macedonians, with a vast army from independent Thracian and Paeonian tribes. According to Thucydides, it included as many as 150,000 men, but was obliged to retire through the failure of provisions, and the coming winter. Greek as a lingua franca had been spoken at least by some members of the royal household in the fifth century and became the language of administrators; the Greek alphabet was adopted for a new Thracian script.\n\nAfter the kingdom had split itself in three semi-independent kingdoms Philip II of Macedon invaded and conquered much of Thrace. Some Odrysian kings and other Thracian tribes were submitted and paid taxes at times during different periods to Philip II, Alexander the Great and Philip V. Two of the three kingdoms were forced into vassal status by Philip II in 352 BC, while in 342-341 BC he conquered the Odrysian heartland deposing reigning kings or rebelled vassals. Nevertheless, Seuthes III (341-300 BC) had survived the expansion of Philip, maintaining continuity of the kingdom probably only as a client on a power-sharing basis with the appointed Macedonian satrap of Thrace Lysimachus in 323 BC. But Seuthes had warred often against Lysimachus and set the capital at Seuthopolis from 320 BC until it was sacked by the Celts in 281 BC. By 212 BC an army led by an Odrysian king Pleuratus destroyed the Celtic kingdom and its capital Tylis. The Odrysian kingdom had maintained continuity with its own kings, but broken up into several kingdoms (including Canite and Odrissae) by the early second century BC, until succumbing to complete Roman conquest in 146 BC. In 100 BC a Thracian kingdom was restored, possibly by a son of Beithys, one of the last kings of the Odrissae, it is not clear if it was a vassal of Rome or entirely independent. Several years later, some Thracians and Celts overran the southern Balkans, Epirus, Dalmatia and northern Greece, and penetrated the Peloponnese. A kingdom of another Odrysian bloodline had re-emerged in 55 BC (Sapei) and by 30 BC it conquered or otherwise controlled the other Odrysian kingdom (Antaea), although it, along with other Thracian tribes, became a Roman proxy soon afterward. By 11 BC, the uncle of the Roman emperor Augustus was the Odrysian king, easing the gradual Romanization of the region. The Odrysian king was murdered by his wife and his kingdom was completely subjected to Rome in 46 AD.\n\nOdrysian crafts and metalworking are largely a product of Persian influence. Thracians as Dacians and Illyrians all decorated themselves with status-enhancing tattoos. Thracian warfare was affected also by Celts and the Triballi had adopted Celtic equipment. Thracian clothing is regarded for its quality and texture and was made up of hemp, flax or wool. Their clothing resembled that of the Scythians including jackets with colored edges, pointed shoes and the Getai tribe were so similar to the Scythians that they were often confused with them. The nobility and some soldiers wore caps. There was a mutual influence between the Greeks and the Thracians. Greek customs and fashions contributed to the recasting of east Balkan society. Among the nobility Greek fashions in dress, ornament and military equipment were popular. Unlike the Greeks, the Thracians often wore trousers. Thracian kings were subjected to Hellenization.\n\nResidences and temples of the Odrysian kingdom have been found, particularly around Starosel in the Sredna Gora mountains. Archaeologists have uncovered the northeastern wall of the Thracian kings' residence, 13 m in length and preserved up to 2 m in height. They also found the names of Cleobulus and Anaxandros, Philip II of Macedon's generals who led the assault on the Odrysian kingdom.\n\nThe list below includes the known Odrysian kings of Thrace, but much of it is conjectural. Various other Thracian kings (some of them perhaps Odrysian like Pleuratus) are included as well. Odrysian kings though called Kings of Thrace never exercised sovereignty over all of Thrace. Control varied according to tribal relationships.\nOdrysian kings (names are presented in Greek or Latin forms):\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28141422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28141422", "title": "Pflasterspektakel", "text": "Pflasterspektakel\n\nThe Pflasterspektakel (, German for \"pavement spectacle\") is an annual street art festival in Linz, the capital of Upper Austria. It includes musical acts, juggling, acrobatics, pantomime, improvisational theatre, clownery, fire dancing, painting, samba parades, as well as a programme for children, and is held on three days in July in and around the main square and the Landstraße. In 2010, about 400 artists from over forty nations participated in the event.\n\nThe Pflasterspektakel was created by Siegbert Janko, cultural manager of Linz since 1985. He ascribes the idea to his impressions of Djemaa el Fna, a market place in Marrakesh, which he visited during birthday celebrations for King Hassan II of Morocco before 1985.\n\nThe inaugural festival took place from 16 to 19 July 1987, under the name of \"Internationale Straßenmusikantentage\" (\"International Street Musicians' Days\"). It comprised about 150 musicians, most of them from Austria and Germany, including a samba group from Munich. It was decided that the event should be repeated the following year, this time under the present name of \"Linz Pflasterspektakel\" and featuring acrobats, magicians and mimes in addition to the musicians.\n\n1989, shortly before the fall of the Berlin Wall, artists from Eastern Bloc countries performed in Linz. From this year onwards, organisers had to select artists because there were more applications than could be accommodated. In 2000, as well as some of the following years, over 250,000 visitors attended the Pflasterspektakel to see artists from Europe, the Americas, Asia, Africa, and Australia.\n\nThe Pflasterspektakel takes place on three days during the second half of July. The opening ceremony is held on a Thursday at 4 p.m.; on the following Friday and Saturday, the festival starts at 2 p.m. Closing time is at midnight each day, but some musicians play in pubs until 1 a.m. By tradition, spontaneously formed groups of artists improvise a finale (or several finales) on Saturday evening on the main square.\n\nArtists are performing at around forty locations throughout the city of Linz, in and around the main square and the Landstraße. Two courtyards are reserved for musicians playing unplugged or a cappella. In case of rain, the event moves to the old city hall and other indoor locations.\n\nThe event is sponsored by the municipality as well as Radio Oberösterreich, local newspapers, and a bank. The artists are only paid for their travel costs, accommodation, breakfast, and 25 euros of cash per day for their expenses. Their main income is derived from visitors' donations.\n"}
{"id": "11650133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11650133", "title": "Process decision program chart", "text": "Process decision program chart\n\nProcess Decision Program Chart (PDPC) is a technique designed to help prepare contingency plans. The emphasis of the PDPC is to identify the consequential impact of failure on activity plans, and create appropriate contingency plans to limit risks. Process diagrams and planning tree diagrams are extended by a couple of levels when the PDPC is applied to the bottom level tasks on those diagrams.\n\nFrom the bottom level of some activity box, the PDPC adds levels for:\n\nThe PDPC is similar to the failure mode and effects analysis (FMEA) in that both identify risks, consequences of failure, and contingency actions. The FMEA adds prioritized risk levels through rating relative risk for each potential failure point.\n\n"}
{"id": "17012805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17012805", "title": "SS Cantabria (1919)", "text": "SS Cantabria (1919)\n\nSS \"Cantabria\" was a Spanish cargo ship which was sunk in a military action of the Spanish Civil War, off the coast of Norfolk 12 miles ENE of Cromer on 2 November 1938. The ship was shelled by the Spanish Nationalist auxiliary cruiser \"Nadir\", which was part of General Franco's navy.\n\nSS \"Cantabria\" (5649 tons) was built in 1919 as \"War Chief\" at the shipyards of J. Coughlan & Sons, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. She was purchased by A.F. Pérez of Santander in 1919 and renamed \"Alfonso Pérez\". She was used as a prison ship during the Asturian miners' strike of 1934. In 1937 she was requisitioned by the \"Departamento de Navegación\" of Santander for the Republican government and renamed \"Cantabria\". She was registered at the Bay of Biscay port of Santander in northern Spain, where she was used again as a prison ship by Republican authorities.\n\nAt the time of the 1938 incident, \"Cantabria\" was under charter to a British company called the Mid-Atlantic Shipping Company based in London. \"Cantabria\" was not engaged in Spanish trade at the time of her sinking. She was on passage in ballast between the River Thames and Immingham bound for Leningrad under Captain Manuel Argüelles. On board were 45 people made up of crew and passengers, of which five were children and three women. One of the children was only three years old. The passengers included Argüelles' wife Trinidad, their son Ramon, aged six and their daughter Begoña, aged eight.\n\n\"Nadir\" was a 1,132-ton auxiliary cruiser of General Franco's Spanish Nationalist forces armed with a main gun, two guns and other two anti-aircraft guns. She was actually \"Ciudad de Valencia\", a warship very active during the blockade of Biscay in 1937. The Nationalists had renamed her in order to deceive the Republican navy about the real number of commerce raiders at sea. Her targets were Republican freighters operating from ports in northern Europe. The Nationalist raider had been launched on 18 October 1930 at the shipyard \"Unión Naval de Levante\" as \"Infante D. Gonzalo\", owned by the Transmediterránea company. She was requisitioned by the Nationalist government on 30 October 1936.\n\nAt around 11.30 am on 2 November, Argüelles was concerned that his freighter was being shadowed by a smaller ship. He had good reason to have concerns as the Spanish Nationalist navy had been given the use of the German port of Emdem by Hitler, to act as base for them to raid Spanish shipping in the North Sea and the English Channel areas.\n\nWith this situation in mind, the captain ordered his vessel to change course a degree or two to see if the following ship was following them. To Argüelles' concern, the vessel followed \"Cantabria\"s new course. His officers studied the following vessel with binoculars, but the vessel appeared to be of no threat and looked like an ordinary passenger steamer of around 1500 tons.\n\nThe vessel was in fact \"Nadir\". Captain Argüelles again changed course heading towards the Norfolk coast. \"Nadir\" followed and speeded up. The crew of \"Cantabria\" then saw that the flag of the Spanish insurgents had been raised on the mast of \"Nadir\". At the same time the raider's guns were unmasked and she ordered \"Cantabria\" to 'Heave to or I fire'. It was now the afternoon of 2 November when \"Nadir\" began to riddle the Republican freighter with gunfire.\n\nThe action occurred on the high seas, outside British territorial waters, but near enough to the coast to be witnessed from the shore. \"Cantabria\", according to the statement of Argüelles himself, had refused to stop after having a shot fired high across her bows. At this point, nearby fishing boats intervened by heading towards \"Nadir\" sounding their sirens. This had an effect as the attacking ship, although under no threat from the commercial trawlers, changed course and broke off its attack. The fishing boats, satisfied that they had broken up the confrontation, continued on their way. \"Nadir\", however, as soon as she was back in range, began to target the ship itself. A shell struck the bridge, destroying it. The raider circled \"Cantabria\" firing round after round and raking the ship with machine-gun fire. Another shell penetrated the engine room rendering \"Cantabria\" powerless. During this time the radio operator had been sending messages that the ship was 'being shelled by unknown vessel'. After the bridge had been destroyed and the engine room had been disabled he sent out the SOS. \"Cantabria\"s position was given as 8½ miles south-east of Haisbro Light ship.\n\nIt was now nearly dark and at 5pm the Cromer Lifeboat \"H.F. Bailey\" with coxswain Henry Blogg at the helm was launched to rescue \"Cantabria\"s crew and passengers. Before the lifeboat arrived fire had spread through the ship. Two boats were lowered and some of the crew and passengers abandoned the ship. Captain Argüelles, his wife and children and the second steward, Joaquin Vallego, remained aboard \"Cantabria\" fearing what their fate would be if they surrendering to the insurgents aboard \"Nadir\". With the boats now lowered, \"Nadir\" ceased fire. The attack was witnessed by two freighters, the British \"Monkwood\" and a Norwegian merchant, which gave up any rescue attempt, fearing the reaction of \"Nadir\", which was still in international waters. \"Monkwood\" later sent a report to the naval authorities, who dispatched some naval units to the spot to assure that no hostile action would be taken inside British territorial waters. Another British Merchant Vessel, \"Pattersonian\", appeared on the horizon, responding to the SOS sent from \"Cantabria\". Captain Blackmore of \"Pattersonian\" had seen \"Nadir\" heading towards the lifeboat and had steered his ship across the attacking ship, getting his vessel between \"Nadir\" and the lifeboat. Eleven of the crew were taken off \"Cantabria\"'s lifeboats by \"Pattersonian\". A further 20 of the crew in the second lifeboat were captured by \"Nadir\". This act was judged an unlawful interference with British shipping in the House of Lords, since \"Nadir\" obstructed the legal duty of rescuing seamen. It was now dark and no more shots were being fired. The Cromer lifeboat arrived at the scene of the incident at 6.30 pm. A relieved Argüelles signaled the lifeboat with a torch and it pulled along the starboard side of \"Cantabria\", which was heavily listing. A line was thrown and the children and the captain's wife were handed down to the lifeboat and were soon followed by the steward and the Captain. When the rescue was completed, \"Cantabria\" suddenly heeled over damaging the lifeboat's stanchions. With great haste the lifeboat moved away from the sinking \"Cantabria\". Soon after the Republican steamer sank. At least one sailor, Juan Gil, was lost with the vessel. Other sources report the loss of four crewmembers.\n\n\"H. F. Bailey\" returned to Cromer arriving at 8.15pm. Captain Argüelles, his family and the steward were taken to the Red Lion Hotel. Meanwhile, the other 11 rescued crewmen were taken to Great Yarmouth by \"Pattersonian\". An account of the incident was reported on the BBC along with a warning to shipping, giving the sunken \"Cantabria\"s position. The national press carried the story as their headlines but many of the crew at Yarmouth refused to be photographed fearing reprisals from Franco. Questions were also asked in the Houses of Parliament about the incident.\n\nTwo weeks after the sinking of SS \"Cantabria\", Danish police released information that shed new light on the recent confrontation that proved that it had been no coincidence that \"Nadir\" had intercepted \"Cantabria\". For some time, the Danish police had been quietly interested in the Copenhagen correspondents for a German newspaper. One of these correspondents was Horst von Pflug-Hartnung. He worked for the paper, \"Berliner Börsen Zeitung\", which was an organ of the Reich War Ministry. The police arrested Hartnung along with eight other Germans living in Denmark, along with three Danes and charged them of operating as spies in Copenhagen. During their investigations the Danish police proved that the accused had all been trained at Gestapo spy schools and had operated secret broadcasting stations, as well as engaging in nautical and hydrographical research. Between them they had drawn up maps and charts, graphs and complex mathematical tables of data. They communicated by complex code systems, which they changed frequently. The outlay for so extensive an apparatus as theirs could be justified only as part of Third Reich preparation for war against major countries. The spy ring just so happened to use the shadowing and sinking of Spanish Republican freighter SS \"Cantabria\" as a practical demonstration of their complicated subversion mechanism that the Gestapo was honing. The sinking had been formulated on behalf of Franco, backed by his allies, as a warning to Britain. Franco was serving notice on British government that, unless she proved reasonable in the current flux of world events, this was a warning of threats to come. Thanks to the investigations of the Danish police, it had been established that the attack had been planned by a more sinister power than General Francisco Franco, and one that was in a better position to threaten, namely Nazi Germany. In effect, \"Nadir\" and her sister ship \"Ciudad de Alicante\" used the German port of Emdem as a resupply base. \n\nHorst von Pflugk-Hartung was a German spy, who along with his brother Georg, had previously been charged in Berlin for the assassination of the Socialist leaders, Karl Liebknecht and Rosa Luxemburg. Both men were acquitted but evidently many thought them guilty, for the brother was assassinated himself sometime later. After Horst von Pflugk-Hartung's trial in Denmark, he was only sentenced to a year and a half in prison and was released after a few months owing to German government pressure. He became one of the leading German Intelligence chiefs in Denmark.\n\nCaptain Manuel Argüelles and his wife Trinidad eventually emigrated with their children to Mexico to make a new life for themselves and their family. In 2006, when the new Henry Blogg lifeboat museum was opened, Ramón Argüelles along with his sister Begoña made a visit to pay tribute to Henry Blogg and his crew.\n"}
{"id": "440359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=440359", "title": "Salton Sea", "text": "Salton Sea\n\nThe Salton Sea is a shallow, saline, endorheic rift lake located directly on the San Andreas Fault, predominantly in the U.S. state of California's Imperial and Coachella valleys.\n\nThe lake occupies the lowest elevations of the Salton Sink in the Colorado Desert of Imperial and Riverside counties in Southern California. Its surface is below sea level as of January 2018. The deepest point of the sea is higher than the lowest point of Death Valley. The sea is fed by the New, Whitewater, and Alamo Rivers, as well as agricultural runoff, drainage systems, and creeks.\n\nOver millions of years, the Colorado River has flowed into the Imperial Valley and deposited soil (creating fertile farmland), building up the terrain and constantly changing the course of the river. For thousands of years, the river has flowed into and out of the valley alternately, creating a freshwater lake, an increasingly saline lake, and a dry desert basin, depending on river flows and the balance between inflow and evaporative loss. The cycle of filling has been about every 400–500 years and has repeated itself many times. The latest natural cycle occurred around 1600–1700 as remembered by Native Americans who talked with the first European settlers. Fish traps still exist at many locations, and the Native Americans evidently moved the traps depending upon the cycle.\n\nThe most recent inflow of water from the now heavily controlled Colorado River was accidentally created by the engineers of the California Development Company in 1905. In an effort to increase water flow into the area for farming, irrigation canals were dug from the Colorado River into the valley. The canals suffered silt buildup, so a cut was made in the bank of the Colorado River to further increase the water flow. The resulting outflow overwhelmed the engineered canal, and the river flowed into the Salton Basin for two years, filling the historic dry lake bed and creating the modern sea, before repairs were completed.\n\nWhile it varies in dimensions and area with fluctuations in agricultural runoff and rainfall, the Salton Sea is about . With an estimated surface area of or , the Salton Sea is the largest lake in California. The average annual inflow is less than , which is enough to maintain a maximum depth of and a total volume of about . However, due to changes in water apportionments agreed upon for the Colorado River under the Quantification Settlement Agreement of 2003, the overall water level of the sea is expected to decrease significantly between 2013 and 2021.\n\nThe lake's salinity, about , is greater than that of the waters of the Pacific Ocean (), but less than that of the Great Salt Lake (which ranges from ). Recently, the concentration has been increasing at a rate of about 3% per year. About of salt are deposited in the valley each year.\n\nThe area was once part of a vast inland sea that covered a large area of Southern California. Geologists estimate that for three million years, at least through all the years of the Pleistocene glacial age, a large delta was deposited by the Colorado River in the southern region of the Imperial Valley. Eventually, the delta reached the western shore of the Gulf of California, creating a barrier that separated the area of the Salton Sea from the northern reaches of the Gulf. Were it not for this barrier, the entire Salton Sink along with the Imperial Valley would be submerged as the Gulf would extend as far north as Indio.\n\nSince the exclusion of the ocean, the Salton Basin has over the ages been alternately a freshwater lake, an increasingly saline endorheic lake, and a dry desert basin, depending on river flows and the balance between inflow and evaporative loss. A lake exists only during times it is replenished by the rivers and rainfall, a cycle that has repeated itself many times over hundreds of thousands of years, perhaps cycling every 400 to 500 years.\n\nEvidence that the basin was occupied periodically by multiple lakes includes wave-cut shorelines at various elevations preserved on the hillsides of the east and west margins of the present lake, the Salton Sea. These indicate that the basin was occupied intermittently as recently as a few hundred years ago. The last of the Pleistocene lakes to occupy the basin was Lake Cahuilla, also periodically identified on older maps as Lake LeConte or the Blake Sea, after American professor and geologist William Phipps Blake.\n\nThroughout the Spanish period of California's history, the area was referred to as the \"Colorado Desert\" after the Colorado River. In a railroad survey completed in 1855, it was called \"the Valley of the Ancient Lake\". On several old maps from the Library of Congress, it has been found labeled \"Cahuilla Valley\" (after the local Native American tribe) and \"Cabazon Valley\" (after a local Native American chief – Chief Cabazon). \"Salt Creek\" first appeared on a map in 1867 and \"Salton Station\" is on a railroad map from 1900, although this place had been there as a rail stop since the late 1870s. Until the advent of the modern sea, the Salton Sink was the site of a major salt-mining operation.\n\nIn 1900, the California Development Company began construction of irrigation canals to divert water from the Colorado River into the Salton Sink, a dry lake bed. After construction of these irrigation canals, the Salton Sink became fertile for a time, allowing farmers to plant crops.\n\nWithin two years, the Imperial Canal became filled with silt from the Colorado River. Engineers tried to alleviate the blockages to no avail. In 1905, heavy rainfall and snowmelt caused the Colorado River to swell, overrunning a set of headgates for the Alamo Canal. The resulting flood poured down the canal, breached an Imperial Valley dike, and ran down two former dry arroyos: the New River in the west, and the Alamo River in the east, each about long. Over about two years, these two newly created rivers sporadically carried the entire volume of the Colorado River into the Salton Sink.\n\nThe Southern Pacific Railroad tried to stop the flooding by dumping earth into the canal's headgates area, but the effort was not fast enough, and the river eroded deeper and deeper into the dry desert sand of the Imperial Valley. A large waterfall formed as a result and began cutting rapidly upstream along the path of the Alamo Canal that now was occupied by the Colorado. This waterfall was initially high, but grew to high before the flow through the breach was stopped. Originally, it was feared that the waterfall would recede upstream to the true main path of the Colorado, becoming up to high, at which point it would be practically impossible to fix the problem.\nAs the basin filled, the town of Salton, a Southern Pacific Railroad siding, and Torres-Martinez Native American land were submerged. The sudden influx of water and the lack of any drainage from the basin resulted in the formation of the Salton Sea.\n\nThe U.S. Navy conducted a preliminary inspection of the Salton Sea in January 1940, and the Salton Sea Test Base (SSTB, run by Sandia Labs) was initially commissioned as the Salton Sea Naval Auxiliary Air Station, in October 1942. The SSTB, just to the southeast of Salton City, originally functioned as an operational and training base for seaplanes. Additional activities at the base included experimental testing of solid-fuel plane-launched rockets, jet-assist take-off testing, aeroballistic testing of inert atomic weapon test units at land and marine target areas, training bombing at marine targets, testing of the effects of long-term storage on atomic weapons, testing of the Project Mercury space capsule parachute landing systems, parachute training and testing, and military training exercises. The base was abandoned in 1978.\n\nThe continuing intermittent flooding of the Imperial Valley from the Colorado River led to the idea of the need for a dam on the Colorado River for flood control.\n\nThe Salton Sea had some success as a resort area, with Salton City, Salton Sea Beach, and Desert Shores, on the western shore and Desert Beach, North Shore, and Bombay Beach, built on the eastern shore in the 1950s. However, many of the settlements substantially shrank in size, or have been abandoned, mostly due to the increasing salinity and pollution of the lake over the years from agricultural runoff and other sources. Many of the species of fish that lived in the sea have been killed off by the combination of pollutants, salt levels, and algal blooms. Dead fish have been known to wash up in mass quantities on the beaches. The smell of the lake, combined with the stench of the decaying fish, also contributed to the decline of the tourist industry around the Salton Sea. Many people now visit the Salton Sea and the surrounding settlements to explore the abandoned structures. The town of Niland is southeast of the sea, with a population of 1,006. Evidence of geothermal activity is also visible. Mudpots and mud volcanoes are found on the eastern side of the Salton Sea. A number of geothermal electricity generation plants are located along the southeastern shore of the Salton Sea in Imperial County.\n\nThe US Geological Survey describes the smell as \"objectionable\", \"noxious\", \"unique\", and \"pervasive\".\n\nDue to the high salinity, very few fish species can tolerate living in the Salton Sea. Introduced tilapia are the main fish that can tolerate the high salinity levels and pollution. Other freshwater fish species live in the rivers and canals that feed the Salton Sea, including threadfin shad, carp, red shiner, channel catfish, white catfish, largemouth bass, mosquitofish, sailfin molly, and the vulnerable desert pupfish.\n\nThe California Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment has developed a safe eating advisory for fish caught in the Salton Sea based on levels of mercury or PCBs found in local species.\n\nThe Salton Sea has been termed a \"crown jewel of avian biodiversity\" by Dr. Milt Friend of the Salton Sea Science Office. Over 400 species have been documented at the Salton Sea. The most diverse and probably the most significant populations of bird life in the continental United States are hosted, rivaled only by Big Bend National Park in Texas. It supports 30% of the remaining population of the American white pelican. The Salton Sea is also a major resting stop on the Pacific Flyway. On 18 November 2006, a Ross's gull, a high Arctic bird, was sighted and photographed there.\n\nThe lack of an outflow means the Salton Sea does not have a natural stabilization system; it is very dynamic. Fluctuations in the water level caused by variations in agricultural runoff, the ancient salt deposits in the lake bed, and the relatively high salinity of the inflow feeding the sea are all causing increasing salinity. The body was initially a freshwater lake, but by the 1960s, its rising salinity had begun to jeopardize some of its species. With a salinity now exceeding 5.0% w/v (saltier than seawater), most species of fish can no longer survive. A freshwater fish notable for its ability to withstand the rising salinity of the Salton Sea, the desert pupfish, can survive salinities ranging from 0.0% to 7.0%. Fertilizer runoffs have resulted in eutrophication, with large algal blooms and elevated bacterial levels.\n\nBy 2014, large swaths of lake bed were exposed and salt levels drastically increased due to mandated water transfers to metropolitan areas along the coast and other factors, limiting the water inflow. Besides the resulting fish kills, the shrinking lake interrupts the bird migration, causes dust clouds, and negatively impacts local tourism.\n\nAlternatives for \"saving\" the Salton Sea have been evaluated since 1955.\nMuch of the current interest in the sea was sparked in the 1990s by Congressman Sonny Bono. His widow, Mary Bono Mack, elected to fill his seat, has continued to be interested in the Salton Sea, as has Representative Jerry Lewis of Redlands. In 1998, the Sonny Bono Salton Sea Restoration Project was named for the politician.\n\nIn the late 1990s, the Salton Sea Authority, a local joint powers agency, and the US Bureau of Reclamation began efforts to evaluate and develop an alternative to save the Salton Sea. A draft Environmental Impact Report/Environmental Impact Statement, which did not specify a preferred alternative, was released for public review in 2000. Since that time, the Salton Sea Authority has developed a preferred concept that involves the construction of a large dam that would impound water to create a marine sea in the northern and southern parts of the sea and along the western edge.\nMany other concepts have been proposed, including piping water from the sea to a wetland in Mexico, Laguna Salada, as a means of salt export, and one by Aqua Genesis Ltd to bring in seawater from the Gulf of California, desalinate it at the sea using available geothermal heat, and sell the water to pay for the plan. This concept would involve the construction of over of pipes and tunneling, and, with the increasing demand for water at the coastline, would provide an additional of water to Southern California coastal cities each year.\n\nIn 2003, the Imperial Irrigation District agreed to sell a portion of its allotment from the Colorado River for 45 years to the San Diego County Water Authority. The California State Legislature, by legislation enacted in 2003 and 2004, directed the Secretary of the California Resources Agency to prepare a restoration plan for the Salton Sea ecosystem, and an accompanying Environmental Impact Report. As part of this effort, the Secretary for Resources has established an advisory committee to provide recommendations to assist in the preparation of the Ecosystem Restoration Plan, including consultation throughout all stages of the alternative selection. The California Department of Water Resources and California Department of Fish and Game are leading the effort to develop a preferred alternative for the restoration of the Salton Sea ecosystem and the protection of wildlife dependent on that ecosystem.\n\nOn January 24, 2008, the California Legislative Analyst's Office released a report titled \"Restoring the Salton Sea.\" The preferred alternative outlined in the draft plan calls for spending almost $9 billion over 25 years and proposes a smaller but more manageable Salton Sea. The amount of water available for use by humans and wildlife would be reduced by 60% from to about . About of barrier and perimeter dikes—constructed most likely out of boulders, gravel, and stone columns—would be erected, along with earthen berms to corral the water into a horseshoe shape along the northern shoreline of the sea from San Felipe Creek on the west shore to Bombay Beach on the east shore. The central portion of the sea would be allowed to evaporate almost completely and would serve as a brine sink, while the southern portion of the sea would be constructed into a saline habitat complex. Construction on the project would be completed by 2035.\n\nThe sale of the Imperial water to San Diego County resulted in a reduction in agricultural runoff needed to replenish the sea. During the first 15 years, the irrigation district has been required to put water into the Salton Sea to compensate for the loss of runoff. Since the requirement expired in 2017, the district sent a letter to the California State Water Resources Control Board in 2014 asking that the board sponsor negotiations to get the state to fulfill its obligation to stop the deterioration of the sea. Pacific Institute, an Oakland-based environmental think tank, was warning that the lack of replenishment water was leading to a \"period of very rapid deterioration.\" The rapidly shrinking sea was a \"looming environmental and public health crisis\" With the increased shrinkage, dust storms would increase and a rotten-egg smell could reach to the coastal cities.\n\nIn 2018, California's Natural Resources Agency received 11 proposals to increase waterflow to the sea in order to reduce dust and dust-borne toxins. Proposal costs ranged from $300 million to several billion dollars. No winner was selected in this phase.\n\nThe Salton Sea and surrounding basin sits over the San Andreas Fault, San Jacinto Fault, Imperial Fault Zone, and a \"stepover fault\" shear zone system. Geologists have determined that previous flooding episodes from the Colorado River have been linked to earthquakes along the San Andreas Fault. Sonar and other instruments were used to map the Salton Sea's underwater faults during the study. During the period when the basin was filled by Lake Cahuilla, a much larger inland sea, earthquakes higher than magnitude 7 occurred roughly every 180 years, the last one occurring within decades of 1700. Computer models suggest the normal faults in the area are most vulnerable to deviatoric stress loading by filling in of water. Currently, a risk still exists for an earthquake of magnitude 7 to 8. Simulations also showed, in the Los Angeles area, shaking and thus damage would be more severe for a San Andreas earthquake that propagated along the fault from the south, rather than from the north. Such an earthquake also raises the risk for soil liquefaction in the Imperial Valley region.\n\nThe effective drainage divide that separates the Salton Sea from the Gulf of California is about in elevation and is located near Delta, northeastern Baja California State, Mexico, south-southeast of Mexicali. Past sea level rise may partially be responsible for the salinity of the lake, while potential future changes in sea levels could occur. However, other factors such as hydrothermal vents, diffusion of salt from minerals and sediment, including concentrated brine, and evaporites are another contributor to salinity, as is the recent lowering of lake levels raising the salinity, though sedimentary records show the lake surface elevation reached levels 10–12 m above world sea level in the 1500s.\n\nThe temperature of the surface water changes with the seasonally varying air temperature. Winter lows can reach temperatures as low as and summer highs can reach .\n\nFilms\n\nMusic\n\n\nGames\n\n\nTelevision\n\nRadio\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7256729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7256729", "title": "Shakespeare in Washington Festival", "text": "Shakespeare in Washington Festival\n\nThe Shakespeare in Washington Festival was a cultural festival held in Washington, D.C. from January through June 2007 in honor of the works of William Shakespeare.\n\nMore than 40 arts organizations from Washington and around the world are participated in Shakespeare in Washington, a festival featuring a vast array of theater, music, and dance, as well as films, art exhibits, and many other events at the Kennedy Center and other venues across the D.C. area.\n\nThis event was conceived by Michael M. Kaiser, president of the Kennedy Center, and was curated by Michael Kahn, artistic director of the Shakespeare Theatre Company.\n\n"}
{"id": "618009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=618009", "title": "Stabbing", "text": "Stabbing\n\nA stabbing is penetration with a sharp or pointed object at close range. \"Stab\" connotes purposeful action, as by an assassin or murderer, but it is also possible to accidentally stab oneself or others. Stabbing differs from slashing or cutting in that the motion of the object used in a stabbing generally moves perpendicular to and directly into the victim's body, rather than being drawn across it.\n\nStabbings today are common among gangs and in prisons because knives are cheap, easy to acquire (or manufacture), easily concealable and relatively effective. In 2013 about 8 million stabbings occurred.\n\nStabbings have been common throughout human history and were the means used to assassinate a number of distinguished historical figures, such as Second Caliph Umar and Roman emperors Julius Caesar and Caligula.\n\nIn Japan, the historical practice of stabbing oneself deliberately in ritual suicide is known as \"seppuku\" (more colloquially \"hara-kiri\", literally \"belly-cutting\" since it involves cutting open the abdomen). The ritual is highly codified, and the person committing suicide is assisted by a \"second\" who is entrusted to decapitate him cleanly (and thus expedite death and prevent an undignified spectacle) once he has made the abdominal wound.\n\nThe human skin has a somewhat elastic property as a self-defense; when the human body is stabbed by a thin object such as a small kitchen knife, the skin often closes tightly around the object and closes again if the object is removed, which can trap some blood within the body. It has thus been speculated that the fuller, an elongated concave depression in a metal blade, functions to let blood out of the body in order to cause more damage. This misconception has led to fullers becoming widely known as \"blood grooves\". The fuller is actually a structural reinforcement of the blade similar in design to a metal I-beam used in construction. However, internal bleeding is just as dangerous as external bleeding; if enough blood vessels are severed to cause serious injury, the skin's elasticity will do nothing to prevent blood from exiting the circulatory system and accumulating uselessly in other parts of the body.\n\nDeath from stabbing is caused by shock, severe blood loss, infection, or loss of function of an essential organ such as the heart and/or lungs.\n\nAlthough previously a victim of abdominal stabbing would be subject to exploratory surgery laparotomy, it is now considered safe not to operate if the patient is stable. In that case, they should be observed for signs of decompensation indicating a serious injury. In the event that the patient initially presents stabbing injuries and is unstable, laparotomy should be initiated to discover and rectify any internal injury.\n\nWhen someone who has sustained a stab wound dies, the body is autopsied and the wound is inspected by a forensic pathologist. Such examination can yield valuable information about the weapon used to produce the injury. From the external appearance and internal findings, the pathologist will usually be able to offer opinion about the dimensions of the weapon including the width and minimum possible length of the blade. It is possible to determine whether the weapon was single edged or double edged.\n\nSometimes factors like the taper of the blade and movement of knife in the wound can also be determined. Bruises or abrasions may give information about the guard.\n\n"}
{"id": "16900774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16900774", "title": "The Adversary (film)", "text": "The Adversary (film)\n\nThe Adversary () is a 2002 French drama film directed by Nicole Garcia, starring Daniel Auteuil and Géraldine Pailhas.\n\nThe film is based on the 2000 book of the same name by Emmanuel Carrère which is inspired by the real-life story of Jean-Claude Romand. \"L'Adversaire\"'s protagonist Jean-Marc Faure (Auteuil) pursues an imaginary career as a doctor of medicine in a plot more closely based on Romand's life and Carrère's book than was Laurent Cantet's 2001 film \"L'Emploi du Temps\".\n\n\nThe film was nominated for a Palme d'Or at the 2002 Cannes Film Festival. At the César Awards 2003 Auteuil was nominated as Best actor, François Cluzet as Best supporting actor and Emmanuelle Devos as Best supporting actress.\n\n"}
{"id": "46384474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46384474", "title": "The Congress Dances (1955 film)", "text": "The Congress Dances (1955 film)\n\nThe Congress Dances (German: Der Kongreß tanzt) is a 1955 Austrian historical musical film directed by Franz Antel and starring Johanna Matz, Rudolf Prack and Hannelore Bollmann. It is a remake of the 1930 film \"The Congress Dances\", about a romance that takes place during the Congress of Vienna in 1814.\n\nThe film was shot in Eastmancolor, with sets designed by art directors Isabella and Werner Schlichting.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19650507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19650507", "title": "True Realm", "text": "True Realm\n\nTrue Realm is a gaming convention showcasing the True Dungeon event which has been held previously and in conjunction with Gen Con game convention (from 2003 to present).\n\nTrue Realm is a unique event in the gaming world. Open on only two days a year (April 3–4, 2009), the event is an indoor, 40,000 sq. ft. “theme park” for gamer geeks who want to immerse themselves in a world of medieval fantasy gaming.\n\nThe main attraction area is a 12,000 sq. ft. medieval fantasy city-scape where gamers can spend the day exploring True Realm and enjoying many immerse live-action events. They can find the entrances to two HUGE Dungeons and Dragons type events with each being a two-hour adventure inside a vast walk-through D&D dungeon. They can also find themselves joining an assault to re-take a tower that has been occupied by three challenging monsters — or they might decide to prove their worth to join the Rogues’ Guild by trying to steal a chalice from a temple. There are even surprise events that can only be found by careful exploration.\n\nAnd, of course, there is an Inn that offers food and drink (as well as a good place to pick up a tabletop game), a Tavern where more boisterous gamers can enjoy a beer or two while reliving their latest dungeon exploits, a Courtyard that features street performances, interactive experiences and several contests\n\n"}
{"id": "31093934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31093934", "title": "Uzbek independence election, 1991", "text": "Uzbek independence election, 1991\n\nAn independence referendum was held in the Republic of Uzbekistan on 29 December 1991, alongside presidential elections. The result was 98.3% of voters in favour, with a turnout of 94.1%.\n\nIn a USSR-wide referendum held in March, 95% of voters in the Uzbek SSR voted in favour of preserving the Soviet Union as \"a renewed federation of equal sovereign republics in which the rights and freedom of an individual of any nationality will be fully guaranteed?\". There was also a separate question asked only in the Uzbek SSR, with 95% of voters voting in favour of the proposal that the country \"should remain part of a renewed Union (federation) as a sovereign republic with equal rights\".\n\nHowever, following the attempted coup d'état in August, it was decided to seek independence. Independence was subsequently declared on 31 August, and the Soviet Union ceased to exist on 26 December 1991, three days before the referendum.\n"}
{"id": "44035121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44035121", "title": "Virginia Science Festival", "text": "Virginia Science Festival\n\nThe Virginia Science Festival (VSF) is a multi-week event encompassing events across 11 sites featuring many disciplines throughout Virginia. The festival was inaugurated in 2014, and is organized by Virginia Tech and the Science Museum of Western Virginia with the goal of highlighting the educational, cultural, and economic impact of science in the state. NCSF events include hands-on activities, talks, and lab tours.\n\nParticipants have included NASA Langley, Wallops Flight Center, Virginia Department of Transportation, American Red Cross, WDBJ, and Carilion Health Care.\n\nThe festival was initially funded through a grant from the Science Festival Foundation, the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, and Appalachian Power.\n"}
