{"id": "50820028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50820028", "title": "Adeline Ooi", "text": "Adeline Ooi\n\nAdeline Ooi (born 1976, Ipoh, Malaysia)is a curator and art advisor. Since January 2015, Ooi is the Director Asia for Art Basel’s show in Hong Kong. She's also a member of Art Basel's Executive Committee.\nOoi holds a BA (Hons) in Fine Arts from Central Saint Martins, London. Ooi is the recipient of The Nippon Foundation’s Asian Public Intellectual (Junior) Fellowships Grant 2002/2003. Throughout 2003 Ooi worked on a number of regional projects in various capacities with institutions and galleries in Southeast Asia focusing mainly on Malaysian, Indonesian and Filipino contemporary art. \nShe directed and co-founded RogueArt in 2009, a cultural agency based in Malaysia, where her clients included artists, galleries, institutions, and both corporate and private collections. Between 2006 and 2008, she worked as Curator and Program Director of Valentine Willie Fine Art gallery, Kuala Lumpur. \nBefore becoming Director Asia for Art Basel, Ooi worked as Art Basel's VIP Relations Manager for Southeast Asia, covering Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam for two years.\n"}
{"id": "13456373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13456373", "title": "Albert Paley", "text": "Albert Paley\n\nAlbert Paley (born 1944) is an American modernist metal sculptor. Initially starting out as a jeweler, Paley has become one of the most distinguished and influential metalsmiths in the world. Within each of his works, three foundational elements stay true: the natural environment, the built environment, and the human presence. Paley is the first metal sculptor to have received the Lifetime Achievement Award from the American Institute of Architects. He currently lives and works in Rochester, New York with his wife, Frances.\n\nHe was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania during World War II. While his father fought in the Burma Campaign, Albert and his mother lived with his maternal grandparents. Most of Paley’s free-time in his young years became occupied by model-kits and the outdoors. At around age 8, Paley joined the Boy Scouts of America, and even became a face for a billboard for the Boy Scouts. At 16, he dropped out of school with no intention of going to college — he planned to work jobs and support his mother after his father developed arthritis.\n\nIt wasn’t until a girlfriend took him to the Tyler School of Art that Paley found a blossoming passion for the arts. After excelling in a first semester at Tyler, Albert was accepted into the selective honors program where he had a free selection of classes. During his second year at Tyler, Paley became interested in jewelry-making. He became a studio assistant in the school’s metal-shop under the supervision of Stanley Lechtzin, who was a strong influence for Paley.\n\nPaley earned his Bachelor of Fine Arts in sculpting with a minor in metalsmithing in 1966. After receiving his BFA, Paley was torn between sculpting and metalwork for a master's degree, but eventually settled and earned his Master of Fine Arts in goldsmithing. Paley taught full-time while a graduate student, and had stopped experimenting in sculpture, focusing all his time and energy into jewelry work. He received both diplomas from the Tyler School of Art, a part of Temple University, in Philadelphia. He moved to Rochester, New York in 1969 to teach at the Rochester Institute of Technology, where he now holds an endowed chair. He taught goldsmithing until 1972, when he decided to focus solely on his own work.\n\nAfter receiving his MFA from the Tyler School of Art, Paley worked with metal as a jewelry designer. He became well known for his style and scale. His jewelry was often big and unique, described by Paley himself for “a certain kind of personality that could carry it...for a strong woman rather than someone who was repressed”. Despite his movement toward forging iron and away from jewelry in the 70's, Paley still continued to make jewelry during the beginning of his career in metalworking. Much of his jewelry was made for private commissions, keeping the pieces solely between him and his clients. He eventually stopped making jewelry completely, collecting any pieces in the possession of galleries, and selling all his tools. Since 1965, Paley's jewelry and metal work have been in over one hundred and fifty national and international exhibitions.\nDuring his last year in the Philadelphia area, Paley began experimenting with metal again, specifically forging iron. He and Lechtzin pulled together a small workshop for forging in the garage of Lechtzin’s home, and spent the summer of 1969 reading about forging and learning how to work with different tools. \nPaley’s big breakthrough was in 1973, when he was awarded a commission from the Smithsonian to design the portal gates for the Renwick Gallery in Washington, D.C. In order to build the gates, Paley found a space to rent and filled it with machinery. He hired a past student, Richard Palmer, as a full-time assistant, and they spent a year creating the famous Portal Gates for the Renwick.\nAfter the Portal Gates, Paley’s career in metalworking took off, with a focus in functional design: tables, lamps, and other usable forms of sculpture. Paley had created an array of decorative objects before the Renwick Gates, using his garage-shop. But after the gates were finished for the Renwick, Paley was left with a much larger work-space, in addition to a full-time assistant, supplies, and machinery. Paley already had another museum commission from the Hunter Museum of American Art in Tennessee for an 85-foot long ornamental fence. Since then, Paley has done many private commissions for driveway, garden, and fence gates in addition to his numerous public commissions. Some of his gates to note are the Portal Gates for the New York State Senate Chamber of the State Capitol (1980); the Victoria and Albert Gates for the Victoria and Albert Museum(1982); and the Animals Always Gateway Sculpture for the St. Louis Zoo (2006), currently the largest sculpture at any zoo in the U.S.\n\nPaley’s first major public sculpture was his Sculpture for the Strong Museum in 1982. It was his first piece that showed a transition from smaller-scale work to his monumental sizes. Paley did several other large-scale sculptures in the 80’s which share similarities in their simplicity of form with basic elements. Over time, his sculptures have moved away from simple forms, increasing in both complexity and color. In the summer of 2013, Paley was the featured artist on Park Avenue. Thirteen sculptures were installed for exhibition between 52nd and 67th Streets in New York City. This collection of sculptures was one of Paley’s larger projects for one exhibition. Craft in America featured Paley as the final Forge artist in Season 5, aired on PBS. Paley's career move from Goldsmith to Metal Sculptor is well explained in an interesting interview by Cathleen McCarthy.\n\nIn 1998, Paley was invited to the Pilchuck Glass School for a summer residency. While there, Paley created a mass of glass elements that would be used in later sculptures in Rochester. Paley did another glass residency in 2014 with the Corning Museum of Glass located in Corning, New York. He worked there for a year, where he practiced furnace-working and cast Corning Code 7056, a specific type of glass that can form bonds with a metal alloy called Kovar. Paley chose this specific glass blend because of its similar properties to that of Kovar, which allowed him to create pieces that fused the glass and metal with each other. The first exhibition to focus on Paley’s combining of glass and steel, \"Complementary Contrasts: The Glass and Steel Sculptures of Albert Paley\" at Museum of Glass will take place during the 2017 - 2018 season, and will display a collection of pieces spanning Paley's work with glass.\n\nListed below are some of Albert Paley's major architectural commissions during his career.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36615181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36615181", "title": "Andonios Liveralis", "text": "Andonios Liveralis\n\nAndonios Liveralis (Greek: Αντώνιος Λιβεράλης or Λιμπεράλης, Italian: \"Antonio Liberali\"; 1814 in Corfu – 1842 in Corfu) was a Greek conductor and composer of the early Ionian school. He was the son of Italian conductor Domenico Liveralis and one of Nikolaos Mantzaros' favorite students. He later continued his studies at the Conservatory of San Pietro a Majella in Naples. When he returned to Corfu he was joyfully received into the circle of national composers, where he was considered a musician of great talent. He then began working as assistant to his teacher Mantzaros, who left him very little time for his own compositions. He was among the first teachers of his younger brother Iosif and served as vice director of music to the Philharmonic Society of Corfu.\n\nLiveralis' compositions are largely limited to minor forms. He wrote a series of fixed funeral marches, which were later published in two volumes. The march \"O Kambouris\" (Ο Καμπούρης, 'The Hunchback') achieved great popularity in Corfu. He also devoted himself to composing piano music and to the creation of a rich song repertoire. His one-act opera is the only sure finished work for the stage by the composer. He was born a Catholic, but was converted to Greek Orthodox faith and adopted the patriotic name of Eleftheriadis (Greek: Ελευθεριάδης). After his untimely death, he was buried in a magnificent funeral to which the orchestra of the Philharmonic Society of Corfu played.\n\n"}
{"id": "32546979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32546979", "title": "Apprenticeships, Skills, Children and Learning Act 2009", "text": "Apprenticeships, Skills, Children and Learning Act 2009\n\nThe Apprenticeships, Skills, Children and Learning Act 2009 (c 22) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It alters the law relating to education.\n\nThe precursors of this Act were the white paper \"Raising Expectations: Enabling the system to deliver\" published in March 2008 and a \"Draft Apprenticeships Bill\" published in July of that year.\n\nSee section 269 of the Act and the following Orders made thereunder:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49932097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49932097", "title": "Charles B. Rangel International Affairs Fellowship", "text": "Charles B. Rangel International Affairs Fellowship\n\nThe Charles B. Rangel International Affairs Fellowship Program is a fellowship program that provides funding for graduate students as they prepare academically and professionally to enter the United States Foreign Service.\n\nLaunched to help promote greater diversity in the U.S. Foreign Service, the Rangel Fellowship Program was announced in 2002 by Secretary of State Colin Powell, Congressman Charles B. Rangel, and the President of Howard University, H. Patrick Swygert. In the early years of the program, the U.S. Congress provided an appropriation for the program, and its early operations were supported by the Department of State and contributions by the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation and the Una Chapman Cox Foundation.\n\nThe program is managed by the Ralph J. Bunche International Affairs Center at Howard University and is funded by a grant from the U.S. Department of State.\n\nThe Rangel Program offers thirty graduate fellowships annually to outstanding seniors and college graduates who want to join the U.S. Foreign Service. The fellowships help finance two-year graduate programs and provide two paid summer internship opportunities, one on Capitol Hill and the second at a U.S. embassy.\n\nLike the Thomas R. Pickering Fellowship Program, the Rangel Fellowship Program guarantees a five-year contract in the Foreign Service to successful Fellows. Rangel Fellows also receive mentoring from Foreign Service Officers throughout the duration of the program.\n\nUndergraduate institutions that have had students selected for the program include the University of Illinois, the University of Illinois at Chicago,Fairfield University, University of Missouri, Princeton University, Paine College, Baruch College, University of Maryland, Baltimore County, Lincoln University, University of Houston, Oklahoma City University, University of Georgia, Ohio State University, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, University of Maryland, University of Central Florida, University of South Florida,\nMiddle Tennessee State University,\nConnecticut College, and Florida Agricultural and Mechanical University.\n\nRangel Fellows attend a variety of graduate schools across the United States, including the Harvard Kennedy School, the Woodrow Wilson School, the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, the Lyndon B. Johnson School, the Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service, the Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies, the School of International Service, the School of International and Public Affairs, and the Elliott School of International Affairs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55532583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55532583", "title": "Codewars", "text": "Codewars\n\nCodewars is an educational community for computer programming. On the platform, software developers train on programming challenges known as kata. These discrete programming exercises train a variety of skills in a variety of programming languages, and are completed within an online IDE.\n\nCodewars was founded by Jake Hoffner and Nathan Doctor in November 2012. The company has raised over $1 million in funding from a range of investors in the technology space, including Cornerstone OnDemand Inc., venture capital fund Venture51, Paige Craig and Brian Lee.\n"}
{"id": "12798841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12798841", "title": "Dave Godfrey", "text": "Dave Godfrey\n\nDave Godfrey (August 9, 1938 – June 21, 2015) was a Canadian writer and publisher. His novel \"The New Ancestors\" won the Governor General's Award for English language fiction in 1970.\n\nBorn in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Godfrey was educated at Trinity College at the University of Toronto, Iowa State University, and Stanford University. He taught in Ghana for several years including Adisadel College, Cape Coast from 1963-65 where he was the English and music instructor. He was the founder of the Adisadel Jazz Club, which led to the creation of similar jazz and student pop groups in several Ghanaian secondary schools. He continued his teaching at the University of Toronto and the University of Victoria.\n\nStarting in the late 1970s, he became interested in the cultural side of computer technology, and argued that decentralized data and computer communication were extremely important for art and literature. In 1979 he edited a book on the subject with Douglas Parkhill, \"Gutenberg two\", on the social and political meaning of computer technology, and he wrote \"The Telidon Book\" with Ernest Chang, about electronic publishing and video text, and founded a software development company called Softwords, working in that field. He also worked on computer aided learning.\n\nGodfrey was one of the founders of the House of Anansi and The New Press and was editor of Press Porcépic. He later ran a 60-acre vineyard and farm in the Cowichan Valley of British Columbia. He died of cancer on June 21, 2015, at the age of 76.\n"}
{"id": "17556423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17556423", "title": "Deep dyslexia", "text": "Deep dyslexia\n\nDeep dyslexia is a form of dyslexia that disrupts reading processes. Deep dyslexia may occur as a result of a head injury, stroke, disease, or operation. This injury results in the occurrence of semantic errors during reading and the impairment of nonword reading.\n\nThe term dyslexia comes from the Greek words 'dys' meaning 'impaired', and 'lexis' meaning 'word' and is used to describe disorders of language concerning reading and spelling.\n\nNumerous models and hypotheses have been proposed in attempt to explain the broad range of symptoms experienced by deep dyslexics, but a definite consensus has yet to be reached. The proposed models and hypotheses have helped in treatment of some suffering patients, but only with certain specific symptoms. Additionally, the recovery seen is not experienced equally in all patients.\n\nDeep dyslexia is usually classified as an \"acquired reading disorder\", as opposed to a \"developmental dyslexia\", in previously literate adults as a consequence of a brain injury. However, recently, developmental deep dyslexia has also been reported in children with Williams syndrome.\n\nDeep dyslexia is considered to be a \"central dyslexia\" as compared to a \"peripheral dyslexia\". Peripheral dyslexics have difficulty matching the visual characteristics of letters that comprise a word to a stored memory of this word from prior encounters. Central dyslexics are unable to properly match the visual word to the word's meaning. They may also be incapable of speaking, or phonating, the sequence of written letters that they see into the word these letters represent. Deep dyslexia differs from other forms of central dyslexia (phonological dyslexia and surface dyslexia) in that deep dyslexics have many more symptoms and these symptoms are generally more severe. According to the \"continuum\" hypothesis, deep dyslexia is a more severe form of phonological dyslexia.\n\nDeep dyslexia is mainly characterized by the occurrence of semantic reading errors or semantic paralexias (transposition of letters or words) when reading aloud (e.g. the written word \"view\" is read aloud as \"scene\", the word \"bird\" is read as \"canary\"). These semantic errors are the major distinguishing feature of deep dyslexia in comparison to other central dyslexias. There are many other symptoms of deep dyslexia, including visual errors (e.g. the written word \"thing\" is read aloud as \"think\", the word \"skate\" is read as \"scale\") and derivational errors (e.g. the written word \"alcohol\" is read aloud as \"alcoholic\", the word \"governor\" is read as \"government\"), and poor reading of function words. Additionally, deep dyslexics have more difficulty reading abstract than concrete and highly imaginable words, more difficulty reading adjectives, adverbs, and verbs than nouns, a complete inability to read non-words, and often impairments on tasks of verbal working memory.\n\nWhile the symptoms of deep dyslexia listed above are different and independent impairments of reading, it is rare to find an individual who only displays some of the characteristics of it; indeed, most patients presenting with semantic paralexias, a hallmark symptom of the disorder, also demonstrate all of the other symptoms. This has resulted in deep dyslexia being considered a symptom-complex and has led to much research into why this variety of symptoms may co-occur in so many patients.\n\nThe difficulty of deep dyslexics in reading abstract words has been referred to as the \"imageability effect\". According to this idea, the ease with which a mental image can be created for a word is strongly related to the ease of reading the word. In an attempt to explain this relationship, researchers have developed a variable to link the mental imagery created by a word and the ease of reading it. This variable, ease of predication, is a rating of how easy it is to come up with simple factual statements or attributes of a word. For example, when presented with the word \"dog\", an individual may come up with statements, or predicates, such as \"has four legs\", \"is an animal\", or \"barks and wags its tail\". Words with higher ease of predication scores are more easily read aloud by deep dyslexics than words with lower ease of predicaton scores, yet there is no correlation between ease of predication and ease of reading seen in normal adult readers. Ease of predication may not explain specific symptoms of deep dyslexia, but rather indicates that deep dyslexics read using imagery, or a predicational route, rather than the more precise mechanisms used in normal reading.\n\nThere are many different, and often conflicting, hypotheses that attempt to explain the deficits associated with deep dyslexia. These theories have resulted in several models designed to conceptualize the symptom-complex found in deep dyslexics. These models are not ordered chronologically, but rather follow a general increasing trend of presence in the field of knowledge regarding deep dyslexics. Some models may be stronger than others, but that is not necessarily reflected here. Models and hypothesis toward the end of the list are more heavily debated and thus typically have a greater wealth of knowledge surrounding their topic.\n\nThe \"Glosser and Friedman (continuum) model\" is based upon the concept that deep dyslexia and phonological dyslexia are opposite endpoints on a \"continuum\" of reading disability. Deep dyslexia appears to be a more severe form of phonological dyslexia; however, symptoms in patients can change over time so that an initial diagnosis of deep dyslexia is later better described as strictly a phonological dyslexia. These observations suggest recovery is possible along the semantic pathway.\n\nFriedman justifies the continuum hypothesis with two sets of evidence. The first involves five patients who started with deep dyslexia, but whose disorders shifted to phonological dyslexia during recovery. Semantic paralexias were the first symptom to diminish, either partially or totally, in each case and then other symptoms were resolved to varying degrees after that. However, nonword reading was always the last symptom to go and complete recovery was never reached by any patient.\n\nHer second set of evidence in support of the continuum was found in her review of eleven patients with deep or phonological dyslexia in whom she found a predictable succession of symptoms. She placed great emphasis on the order in which reading symptoms emerged (poor nonword reading first, then visual errors, then noun > functor, then noun > verb, concrete > abstract, and finally, semantic errors) and suggested that the continuum hypothesis was supported by this pattern of symptoms.\n\nThe \"connectionist model\" suggests that the phonological and semantic features of a word are activated, but this activation decays at a rate too quick for cognitive processing- thus, errors in speech output are produced as a result of this fading activation. This hypothesis explains the broad symptom-complex of deep dyslexics without resorting to a multiple loci damage approach as seen in other models. It eliminates the need to attribute a specific locus of damage to each symptom of deep dylsexia, and instead states that all symptoms are due to decay of a large activation area.\n\nPlaut and Shallice have hypothesized that units in the brain interact in such a way that semantic features form stable attractors in the space of all possible representations of words. These unit interactions correspond to particular attractor patterns, and if the particular attractor pattern is activated, the network remains in that pattern. However, they hypothesize that when the pattern is distorted, there is a pull on the pattern, and it gravitates toward the correct pattern, almost as if this semantic space is filled with basins, where if one point on the pattern falls to the edge of the basin, it will still gravitate toward the middle. If you lesion this area, the neurons die and the basins change their shape. When this happens, you may now have the same distorted starting pattern that will end up in a neighboring basin, which is a semantically related area, but not the correct one, and this would account for deep dyslexic patients to incorrectly identify \"river\" as \"ocean\". Lesions that occur early in the network change the basins that send different semantic words to different areas of the network, whereas if they occur later, the words will be much closer semantically. This may account for severity of the deficit in individual patients.\n\nThe \"failure of inhibition hypothesis\" states that the presentation of a target word activates semantic memory of that word, along with memory for other words that are semantically related. For example, the target word \"dog\" may activate \"bark\", \"cat\", \"squirrel\", \"ball\", \"fetch\". Deep dyslexic patients are unable to inhibit the other related words, so they are likely to substitute one of these words for the target word in speech production (explicit output). This hypothesis contradicts the belief of other researchers that the deficits seen in deep dyslexics are due to processing problems.\n\nResearchers believe that \"failure of inhibition\" has no effect on implicit processing, but instead is the cause of impairments in the explicit task of speech production. They believe that explicit characteristics of reading involve only the conscious production of speech (reading). Information about written words is internalized without awareness (implicitly); the ability to access this information and process it into words that can be read or spoken is an explicit process. Implicit knowledge involves phonological awareness, understanding of the morphology, and a semantic understanding of written words. This implicit aspect of reading may be completely intact, and yet reading errors can still occur through defects in explicit output, or production. Researchers have studied the dissociation of implicit and explicit processes to thus unravel the underlying deficiencies in deep dyslexia. Studies in support of \"failure of inhibition\" show intact implicit processing of deep dyslexics. For instance, studies have shown deep dyslexics that are equally fast in a lexical decision task with a rhyming pair of words (book-took) in comparison to a non-rhyming pair of words (bough-tough), indicating that the patients are able to use implicit phonological knowledge and phonics to process the words. Additionally, they are faster in a lexical decision task with words that sound like they are spelled (couch, pouch) than they are with words that do not sound like they are spelled (touch), again showing that patients are using phonology. These data show that implicit processing is in fact occurring in deep dyslexic patients. Thus, some researchers believe that the impairments present in deep dyslexics are only in explicit phonological output (i.e., reading aloud). They believe that the problems of deep dyslexics are due to production errors, and that deep dyslexics have normal phonological processing at the implicit level. This is supported by the fact that deep dyslexia is often present in patients suffering from production errors resulting from Expressive aphasia.\n\nRiley and Thompson expanded on this theory in 2010. Previous studies had shown that typical in patients with deep dyslexia, typical members of a semantic category (like \"robin\" in the category of \"birds\") are processed faster than atypical members of the same category (like \"ostrich\"), known as the semantic typicality effect. According to their research, this typicality effect may indicate an inability to efficiently select a correct lexical-semantic representation. They suggest that selection inhibition becomes impaired beginning at the level of semantics rather than the later levels of production like the original failure of inhibition hypothesis suggests.\n\nThe \"Morton and Patterson (dual route) model\" is based upon the dual route hypothesis of reading. It proposes that the occurrence of semantic errors alongside an inability to read non-words aloud must be due to multiple loci of damage within this dual-route model. Because a deep dyslexic cannot read aloud non-words, a disruption in the phonological process is assumed, forcing reading to proceed through the semantic route. However, deep dyslexics also produce semantic errors while reading, alluding to damage in this pathway as well. Other researchers refer to the phonological and semantic route as \"modules\". They believe that patients have a partially functioning lexical module and a completely deficient nonlexical module. The lexical module is analogous to the semantic route in the dual route model and relies on lexical memory, or the memory for words, to name words. In using the lexical module, an individual accesses a \"mental dictionary\" of words. The nonlexical module is comparable to the phonological route and uses knowledge of spelling and graphemes to create phonemes to name words and nonwords. The absent nonlexical module in deep dyslexics explains why patients cannot name nonwords.\n\nNormal reading is typically a function of a left hemisphere-based system. The right hemisphere plays a minimal role in reading. One hypothesis, the \"left hemisphere hypothesis\", supports the idea of a damaged left hemisphere-based reading system associated with deep dyslexia. Deep dyslexics may be attempting to use this damaged left hemisphere, resulting in severe reading deficits. On the other hand, the \"right hemisphere hypothesis\" states that deep dyslexics attempt to read using a completely different reading system. According to this hypothesis, they are using the right hemisphere for orthographic and semantic processing, but given that this system does not usually play a role in reading, deep dyslexics have many reading disabilities. Strong support for this hypothesis comes from studies of split-brain patients who use the right hemisphere for reading. These patients makes semantic errors similar to those seen with deep dyslexia. Numerous studies have shown that the right hemisphere \"can\" contribute to reading when a patient's left hemisphere is damaged. Brain imaging studies, performed both on deep dyslexics and in other patients with left hemisphere injury, have shown that the damaged left hemisphere is still playing a role in reading. However, the imaging has also shown that areas of the right hemisphere are also active during reading. Thus, it currently appears that there is greater support in favor of the right-hemisphere hypothesis.\n\nThere have been many different studies done in an attempt to treat deep dyslexics, all which have been met with varying success. One method that has been frequently used is to teach patients to sound out words using grapheme-to-phoneme correspondence rules (for example, using single letter graphemes such as the letter 'B\" to link with larger words such as \"Baby\", allowing for association of phonemes). Such methods are known as \"non-lexically based reading treatments\". Other studies have looked at attempting to repair the semantic-lexical route, known as \"lexically based treatment\". Regardless of the methodology, treatment studies with deep dyslexics are difficult because much of the information regarding this disability is still heavily debated. Treatment options may be successful on repairing one route of reading but not another, and success for one patient may not translate to success in another.\n"}
{"id": "44848534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44848534", "title": "Educating the Disfranchised and Disinherited", "text": "Educating the Disfranchised and Disinherited\n\nEducating the Disfranchised and Disinherited is a 1999 biography of American General Samuel Chapman Armstrong and his associated normal school for freedmen, Hampton Institute, written by Robert Francis Engs and published by the University of Tennessee Press. The first full biography of its kind, the book portrays Armstrong as a complex politician and administrator in the postbellum period who balanced the needs of opposed parties surrounding the Virginia school: its African American students, Southern white neighbors, and Northern philanthropist funders. Previous works presented Armstrong in a polarized fashion, as either a savior or handicap for freedmen. The book emphasizes Armstrong's upbringing as a missionary in Hawaii in the development of his educational philosophy.\n\nReviewers complimented the book's balanced presentation of Armstrong, grounded use of the period's thought, and contribution to the historiography of industrial education. They felt the book lacked community and state historical context, as well as recent scholarship on Native Americans at Hampton.\n\nRobert Francis Engs's \"Educating the Disfranchised and Disinherited: Samuel Chapman Armstrong and Hampton Institute, 1839–1893\" is the first biography of General Samuel Chapman Armstrong, the founder of the Hampton Normal and Agricultural Institute. The book was published by the University of Tennessee Press in 1999. It challenges several long-standing ideas about this period: that the \"Hampton-Tuskegee system\" and its adherents stunted the progress of African Americans, that the Hampton Institute ideology was opposed to that of historically black and historically white colleges, and that the positions of W. E. B. DuBois and Booker T. Washington were diametrically opposed. Engs writes Armstrong as a symbol of postbellum America's conflicts over race, class, religion, and gender. Engs's Armstrong, in \"paternal ... arrogance\" believed that he and others of higher status could best determine how to improve the lots of those suppressed by \"lack of opportunity and discrimination\", such as African Americans and American Indians. This intuition, of knowing \"what was best for the freedmen\", was influenced by his experience in missionary work, where his parents treated the indigenous Hawaiians as misbehaving children with behavior to be corrected. The biography distills Armstrong's philosophy, demeanor, and understanding of African Americans from his experiences as a missionary, student of Williams College, and leader in the American Civil War. Engs dismisses polarized interpretations of Armstrong's legacy as either a savior or a handicap for uneducated blacks. Instead, Armstrong is portrayed as a complex man who believes both in \"black inferiority\" and that freedmen could improve their lives through his lessons.\n\nArmstrong was born and raised in Hawaii in the mid-1800s. His father was the Kingdom of Hawaii's (secular) minister of public instruction, whose schools practiced the \"manual labor principle of education\". Engs wrote that Armstrong's Hawaiian childhood insulated him from racist sentiment on the mainland. Armstrong attended private schools in Oahu before moving to study on the mainland. He shied away from the ministry, believing as his father, \"the shorter one's creed, the better\". Armstrong's experience in the Civil War—including as a prisoner of war, leader of the United States Colored Troops, and General—led to his lifelong pursuit of \"noble strife\" in helping his \"fellow man\". He joined the Freedmen's Bureau and served as the first principal of the Hampton Institute on the Virginia Peninsula. Hampton's task was to prepare African Americans \"to teach their people the 'civilizing' ways of white men\" through \"Christian teachings, a strict code of conduct, and manual labor\". Hampton was one of eight American Missionary Association teacher-training schools. Armstrong left a 25-year legacy, and introduced the school's manual and industrial teaching methods in the late 1860s despite its increased cost. Engs distinguishes this vision from the post-1900 industrial education, with Armstrong's \"industry\" signifying the industriousness of \"self-discipline and self-reliance\". The labor proceeds also supported the black students through school, though only during school months. Armstrong sought to see his \"best\" graduates ascend to higher education and to occupations \"originally envisioned for whites\". As his \"most famous student\", \"virtual son\", and \"spiritual heir\", Booker T. Washington opened the Tuskegee Institute in the style of Hampton. Armstrong later expanded Hampton's scope to include Native Americans, who were kept apart from the blacks as a \"school within a school\".\nEngs notes that missionaries struggled to reconcile the task of assimilating discriminated peoples into a society that defined itself by that active discrimination. Engs portrays Armstrong as a natural politician, administrator, and \"risk-taker\" who sought broad-based support from opposed parties, including African Americans, the \"anti-Negro white South\", and white philanthropists of the North, which made Armstrong into a \"master prevaricator\". As a \"realist\", Armstrong adopted the subtleties of his patrons to keep Hampton open, and did not confuse \"the uplift of African Americans\" with \"promoting their equality with whites\". Hampton's curriculum was ultimately set by federal and donor money. In time, Armstrong's goals for the school were derailed by increased costs and the school's Northern industrialist backers, who made manual labor education the focus and end of the curriculum, rather than a means. Engs concludes that Armstrong's black graduates lived in better circumstances than their peers. Many became teachers in the South and were \"grateful\" for their opportunities. Reversely, Hampton's Native American graduates suffered in health at the school and had little job opportunity back out West. Engs also concluded that Armstrong's work was limited by his reliance on the elite, emphasis on white men deciding black lives, and inability to change his philosophy when his assumptions became outdated. Still, Engs thought that Armstrong succeeded in his intent to \"civilize\" students at Hampton, though this mattered little, Engs wrote, when white society was unprepared to accept them \"no matter how civilized they might be\".\n\nWilbert Ahern (\"Journal of American History\") found the book's arguments convincing and \"gracefully written\", but wanted to know more about Armstrong's background in financial administration, forming of ties with the Northern philanthropists, and successful students apart from Booker T. Washington. Jennings Wagoner (\"History of Education Quarterly\") noted that Armstrong's intentions were portrayed as comparable to the leaders of George Fredrickson's \"Inner Civil War\", who saw their work as an extension of that of the Founding Fathers. Wagoner wrote that Engs provided a \"well-grounded\" biography that handles Armstrong's \"complexities and contradictions\" with skillful use of the historiography and understanding of the era. Ahern emphasized the biography's \"balance\" in contrast to prior partisan writing on Armstrong. He noted Donald Spivey's \"Schooling for the New Slavery\" and Engs's first book, the 1979 \"Freedmen's First Generation\", as examples of work that associates Armstrong with \"stifling ... African-American aspirations\". Ahern also wrote that Engs's work affirms the then-controversial claim in James McPherson's 1975 \"The Abolitionist Legacy\" that Armstrong was \"fundamentally dedicated to the advancement of opportunity for African Americans\" and other races. Edna Green Medford (\"The North Carolina Historical Review\") wrote that the book was particularly valuable to the historiography of industrial education.\n\nMedford praised Engs's contextualization of the late-nineteenth century in American political, racial, and educational thought, but criticized his treatment of the relationship between the school and its community, particularly in stories of its students interacting with the community. Ahern felt that Engs missed relevant, recent literature on Armstrong's impact on Native Americans. Harold Forsythe (\"The Journal of Southern History\") described Engs's tone as mild, but with a \"continuous ... critical bite\". Forsythe also marked the book's reliance on Armstrong's and Hampton records and consequent distance from the larger history of Virginia.\n"}
{"id": "25532085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25532085", "title": "Foreign language anxiety", "text": "Foreign language anxiety\n\nForeign language anxiety, or xenoglossophobia, is the feeling of unease, worry, nervousness and apprehension experienced in learning or using a second or foreign language. The feelings may stem from any second language context whether it is associated with the productive skills of speaking and writing or the receptive skills of reading and listening.\n\nForeign language anxiety is a form of what psychologists describe as a \"specific anxiety reaction\". Some individuals are more predisposed to anxiety than others and may feel anxious in a wide variety of situations. Foreign language anxiety, however, is situation-specific and so it can also affect individuals who are not characteristically anxious in other situations.\n\nAlthough all aspects of using and learning a foreign language can cause anxiety, both listening and speaking are regularly cited as the most anxiety provoking of foreign language activities. Foreign language anxiety is usually studied and seen in a language classroom situation. It has been argued that language learning is a \"profoundly unsettling psychological proposition\" as it jeopardizes an individual's self-understanding and perspective. Three theories of anxiety have been developed from internal appraisal, then more situational in learning language and contextual situation:\nPotential negative events that people cannot see or handle with their ability often leads to anxiety. Also, if individuals are highly anxious, that kind of habitualised reactions may cause those who have experienced many threatening situations in the past to be more likely perceive future situations as threatening. As well, if their anxiety are traits rather than states, self-efficacy must result from past successes, vicarious experiences and social persuasion.\n\n\"Self-efficacy\" is one's own confidence that he or she would be able to handle to achieve intended goals. \"State, trait, situational anxiety\" refers to those who have gotten traumatised a lot in the past being more likely to perceive the future situations as treating too. Also, specifically in an ESL classroom, students learning a foreign language out of their country are very vulnerable to high levels of anxiety about language learning, which leads them to being less likely to get encouraged by others because of lacking vicarious experience and social persuasions.\n\nMore specifically, foreign language anxiety is seen in a language classroom. As such, the causes of foreign language anxiety have been broadly separated into three main components: communication apprehension, test anxiety and fear of negative evaluation. Communication apprehension is the anxiety experienced in speaking or listening to other individuals. Test-anxiety is a form of performance anxiety associated with the fear of doing badly or failing altogether. Fear of negative evaluation is the anxiety associated with the learner's perception of how other onlookers (instructors, classmates or others) may negatively view their language ability.\n\nSparks and Ganschow asked a question, which drew attention to the fact that anxiety could be a cause of poor language learning or a result of poor language learning. If a student is unable to study as required before writing a language examination, the student could experience test anxiety. Context anxiety could be viewed as a result. In contrast, anxiety becomes a cause of poor language learning when it was due to anxiety that student is unable to adequately learn the target language.\n\nThere can be various physical causes of anxiety, such as hormone levels, but the underlying causes of excessive anxiety while learning are fear and a lack of confidence. Lack of confidence itself can come from various causes. One reason can be the teaching approach used.\n\nFurthermore, foreign language anxiety roots in three psychological challenges:\nThose psychological states thus have task-performance and identity dimensions. People tend to act or speak in a way that would be judged appropriate to the other people native to the foreign culture, but the behaviour that individuals are producing grapples with ingrained values and behaviours. Emotions by the psychological challenges has something to do with attempting to switch codes in an interactive encounter.\n\nThe effects of foreign language anxiety are particularly evident in the foreign language classroom, and anxiety is a strong indicator of academic performance. Anxiety is found to have a detrimental effect on students' confidence, self-esteem and level of participation.\n\nAnxious learners suffer detrimental effects during spontaneous speaking activities in performance, affective reactions and their overall attitudes towards learning their target second language. Furthermore, they may lack confidence, be less able to self-edit and identify language errors and more likely to employ avoidance strategies such as skipping class. Anxious students also forget previously learned material, volunteer answers less frequently and tend to be more passive in classroom activities than their less anxious counterparts.\n\nThe effects of foreign language anxiety also extend outside the second language classroom. A high level of foreign language anxiety may also correspond with communication apprehension, causing individuals to be quieter and less willing to communicate. People who exhibit this kind of communication reticence can also sometimes be perceived as less trustworthy, less competent, less socially and physically attractive, tenser, less composed and less dominant than their less reticent counterparts.\n\nThe effects of these negative emotions may also lead to cross-cultural code-switching, in which bilingual people alter a language to their other language through their interactions with other bilinguals. Unlike linguistic code-switching, cross-cultural code-switching is the socio-linguistic phenomenon of changing culturally-ingrained behaviors in a foreign situation. Although cross-cultural code-switching possibly results from both positive and negative emotions, negative emotions are more common and more likely to affect the way a bilingual person speaks. Negative emotions include embarrassment, performance anxiety, guilt, distress and anxiety. \"Molinsky identifies three psychological states that appraise under the influence of emotions while code-switching. These are: \"experienced performance difficulty, face threat and identity conflict—all of which mediate the relationship between personal and contextual variables and the negative and positive emotions an individual experiences while code-switching\".\n\nThere are three types of cross-cultural code-switching:\nThis code-switching could be considered as an unconscious behavior because of its negative and usually threatening situations. In that sense, although code-switching results from foreign language anxiety, it is more often caused by external circumstances than by internal mental change.\n\nA number of tools have been developed to investigate the level of foreign language anxiety experienced by language learners.\n\nThe Foreign Language Classroom Anxiety Scale (FLCAS) is a 33-question, 5-point Likert scale survey, which is widely used in research studies. It investigates participants' communication apprehension, test-anxiety and fear of negative evaluation and focuses on speaking in a classroom context. It has been translated and used in several languages, including Spanish and Chinese.\n\nFollowing the success of the Foreign Language Classroom Anxiety scale, similar instruments have been devised for measuring Foreign Language Reading Anxiety (FLRAS), Foreign Language Listening Anxiety (FLLAS) and Second Language Writing Apprehension (SLWAT).\n\nIn the 1990s, the challenge was a clear categorisation of grammatical or sociolinguistic constraints on code-switching caused by foreign language anxiety and to determine how bilinguals produce different code-mixed patterns. In fact, previously, most researches focused more upon syntactic aspects on code-switching; in other words, psychological elements were completely ignored.\n\n"}
{"id": "30865979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30865979", "title": "Freshman 15", "text": "Freshman 15\n\nThe term \"Freshman 15\" is an expression commonly used in the United States that refers to an amount (somewhat arbitrarily set at 15 pounds, and originally just 10) of weight gained during a student's first year at college. In Australia and New Zealand it is sometimes referred to as \"First Year Fatties\", \"Fresher Spread\", or \"Fresher Five\", the latter referring to a five-kilogram gain.\n\nThe purported causes of this weight gain are increased alcohol intake and the consumption of fat and carbohydrate-rich cafeteria-style food in university dormitories and fast food in nearby restaurants. Many other causes include malnutrition, stress, and decreased levels of exercise. All of these factors can affect each person in a different way. Studies confirm many of these causes. Colleges and universities have recently been cracking down on this common problem and are trying to educate people on how to prevent it. This problem has grown so much that students are focusing on how to stop the freshman 15 before it happens.\n\nDespite how commonly the Freshman 15 is asserted, an Ohio State University study showed that the average college student gains only two to three pounds in their first year. Additionally, it showed that college students did not gain any more weight than non-college students of the same age, and that the only factor that increased weight gain was heavy drinking.\n\nCollege meal plans are designed to give students a narrow variety of options. The most extravagant meal plans include a set amount of meals per day, so many per week, or so many per semester. In addition, plans may include little money that can be spent on snacks or other meals. Students can eat several meals a day or less than three meals a day. The meal plan was designed to benefit the student but it can be abused.\n\nThe dining halls at colleges try to make dining at school convenient and comfortable. Dining halls can provide a wide variety and bountiful options of food. They can also provide a place where students can endlessly indulge in high calorie foods such as pizza, fried food, and ice cream. When exposed to these gourmet restaurants, students are generally more likely to choose them over healthier options, which leads to weight gain, especially if fast food restaurants are more prevalent on campus than other restaurants. A study done on 60 students at Cornell University showed that 20% of the weight gained by the test subjects was directly caused by the dining halls' all-you-can-eat nature.\n\nCollege dining halls appeal to some students and repulse others, and this is especially problematic in the first year. A study published in the \"Journal of Adolescent Health\" determined that “regular family meals provide an opportunity for the role modeling of healthy eating patterns and social interactions among family members, and may thus help to reinforce healthy eating patterns and prevent disordered eating behaviors.” Thus, parents determine when, where, what and how their children eat. Away from home, often for the first time, students have no parental monitoring of their eating habits and have to (re)discover what good eating patterns are.\n\nIn parental-supervised eating, teenagers typically ingest the proper amount of calories. The average 18-year-old-male is tall and weighs between . The average 18-year-old-female is tall and weighs between . According to a calorie counter used at the Baylor College of Medicine, an average 18-year-old-male who is rarely active needs to consume approximately 2676 calories per day to maintain his weight. Similarly, an average 18-year-old female who is rarely active needs to consume approximately 1940 calories per day to maintain her weight.\n\nIn parental-supervised diets, students also usually ingest the proper proportion of foods from the different dietary groups; once removed from the parental dinner table, many college students do not eat enough fruits, vegetables, and dairy products. This is because when students go off to college, they face an independence that they usually have not experienced before. Many have to learn how to go out and feed themselves instead of having their parents cook for them. Research has shown that over 60 percent of college students commonly ingest sugary and fatty foods like chocolate and potato chips over fruits and vegetables. Presently, sugar accounts for approximately 20 percent of an American’s diet, which equates to about 90 pounds of sugar per person per year. This explains why a study, conducted by Stephanie Goodwin of Virginia Polytechnic Institute, states that three out of four students don’t eat at least five servings of fruits and vegetables daily, denying students key vitamins C and E, as well as fiber.\n\nMalnutrition can be caused by a number of things including inadequate or unbalanced diet, problems with digestion or absorption, or certain medical conditions. Hunger is a main cause of malnutrition because if it is not satisfied then malnutrition is sure to follow. People suffer from hunger because of a lack of food and the nutrients which accompany food in the short term. If hunger proceeds for an extended period of time there is a good chance that it will lead to malnutrition.\nMalnutrition can affect people of every age. Though infants, children, and adolescents suffer more from malnutrition because of their need for critical nutrients for their normal development, older people may have problems because of aging or illness. People of college age have issues with malnutrition as well, though it may not be as severe as with the younger kids or the elderly.\nIn people in their undergraduate years of study at a four-year university, malnutrition can occur due to negligence of eating and even their diet.\n\nStudents often eat to deal with the pressures of stress. Stress may come from the pressures of unclear assignments, homework, and the transition from high school to college. The biggest stress factor for students is exams and doing well on them. Students entering college may be making independent decisions about their diet, activity, and television viewing behaviors for the first time. They also concluded that new environmental and social factors might emerge during this time period and have a greater influence on their behavior. When a student is stressed, the stress hormone cortisol is released, which causes some individuals to excessively eat.\n\nSocial pressures also play a factor with college student's eating habits. If an individual is trying to diet it becomes very difficult when they go out with friends to a restaurant or go eat at the dinning hall. One study (Pliner et al., 2007) found that social pressures have a powerful effect on how we eat. According to the researchers, individuals will often eat the same amount as those around them, especially when they are in a small group. This finding implies that when we eat, it is not as simple as eating until we feel full. Rather, we might under-eat or overeat depending on the company we are in. This suggests that we may eat similar types of food to those around us, making others’ unhealthy choices our own. Also much of this comes from the transition from living at home, to living on their own, which results in students not knowing how to properly eat on their own. Students then tend to go eat with other students and choose poor eating decisions.\n\nMost college students activity levels significantly decrease over the course of college. This results in weight gain because students do not workout as much and become lazier in everyday tasks. Transitioning into college is the first time when students actually have to learn how to maintain a healthy lifestyle and manage time in their schedules for physical activity.\n\nCollege students must deal with many different changes in living conditions when it comes to dining.\n\nIn addition, some college students consume a lot of alcoholic beverages. The vitamins and minerals consumed from alcohol and from food consumed with alcohol have a good chance of being unabsorbed. People who drink large amounts of alcohol have a good chance of becoming malnourished or losing an unhealthy amount of weight because of the absorption blocking qualities of alcohol.\n\nThe body has a certain number of calories that it needs to consume in order to maintain its weight. This is determined through height, weight, age, and several other factors, which differs from person to person. When a person takes in more or fewer calories than that set limit, weight is either gained or lost. Alcohol provides a large amount of calories in a small quantity of liquid, which tends to lead to unwanted extra calories.\n\nWhen drinking alcohol on a regular basis, certain vitamin and mineral deficiencies can follow. Examples of these deficiencies are as follows:\n\n\nThese deficiencies can lead to weight issues caused by malnutrition. When consuming alcohol, these vitamins and minerals must be replaced. Often this is how certain cravings arise.\n\nAbout 1 in 4 college students report academic consequences from drinking, including missing classes, falling behind, doing poorly on exams, and overall receiving lower grade.\n\nStudents who are involved in fraternities and sororities in college tend to have the highest alcohol consumption rates.\n\nWhen you consume alcohol, it turns into acetate. When acetate is present, the body will burn it up as calories before anything else. As a result, anything you ate prior to drinking your alcoholic beverage will be stored as fat. Alcohol also makes it harder for the body to burn fat that is already present by slowing down a process called \"liquid oxidation.\" The more alcohol that a person consumes, the more food they are going to want to eat.\n\nResearchers have found that those who consumed drinks of higher alcohol strength, ate significantly more than the others. Not only that, but they also chose to eat more fatty and salty foods. They also found that urges to snack were much higher among drinkers. Drinking alcohol also increases the body fat percentage.\n\nAccording to the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism's research, people who tend to drink the largest amount of alcohol have the poorest eating habits compared to those who do not consume much alcohol at all. Those who do not drink a large quantity of alcohol seem to have the best quality diets. In this study researchers compared the Healthy Eating scores of 3,000 participants in the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey with their overall consumption of alcohol. They used frequency, quantity, and average daily volume to measure the alcohol consumption.\n\nThe researchers found that as the alcohol quantity increased, the Health Index scores declined. As the frequency of alcohol consumed increased, the Healthy Eating scored declined. Diet quality was the poorest among those who consumed the largest quantity of alcohol. Care packages filled with unhealthy treats, sent usually by parents, was found to be the leading cause of weight gain. Those who drank less alcohol in an infrequent time frame had the best health index scores overall.\n\nIt is not unusual for college students, especially freshmen, to experience abnormal levels of stress. This is more prevalent for freshmen because they are still transitioning from high school. College students can hold jobs while taking classes and may feel they have no time for studying, while freshmen might be stressed just trying to adjust to the college work load. There are hundreds of reasons for why college students get stressed, but, whatever the reason, it also can lead to weight gain. This is because when the body is stressed, it releases hormones such as adrenaline or more importantly cortisol. Cortisol has been tested to slow down the body's metabolism. Other studies have shown that when people are stressed, they have cravings for foods that are high in calories such as sweet, salty, and processed foods. Not only do people crave bad food when they are nervous or stressed, but they eat large quantities of it through continuous snacking even though they might not be hungry. Therefore, an increase in weight can be seen in freshmen students even though they are eating normally.\n\nA study done by Jatturong R. Wichianson and colleagues at the University of Southern California showed a direct relationship between eating late at night (Night eating syndrome) and stress levels with college students. They used a standardized test to measure both the levels of NES and perceived stress each student had. The results showed that students that had higher levels of stress were more likely to have NES due to the inability to adapt. This study shows that students who were not able to deal with stress appropriately were more likely to use late night eating to solve their issues.\nMany college students struggle with body image issues at some point. College students being happy with their body image is hard to maintain due to the stress and comparisons of other college students. Body image in college students is of great concern because body dissatisfaction is one of the most consistent risk factors for eating disorders and is a significant predictor of low self-esteem, depression, and obesity. Eating disorders typically begin between the ages of 18 and 21. The two most common eating disorders are anorexia and bulimia. Anorexia deals with a person’s refusal to gain weight, disturbance of body image and the inability to maintain a certain weight. Bulimia is generally eating large amounts of food in a short period of time, usually within a span of two hours, then trying to get rid of the food by various methods; purging, laxatives or over-exercising. The idea of the \"Freshman 15\" makes students think that it is impossible to avoid when going to college. This is what develops eating disorders because students feel the need to be thin and skinny in order to avoid the \"Freshman 15\" weight gain. Statistics show that 91 percent of women attempt to control their weight by dieting.\n\nBody image is especially more popular with women. Currently, beautiful is considered good and thinness is synonymous with beauty, which makes it valued by society while its opposite, obesity, is strongly rejected. Although the ideals of female beauty vary as a function of esthetical standards adopted at each time, studies show that women have tried to change their bodies to follow these standards. Young women’s body image is greatly influenced by how they believed their friends and peers judged their bodies.\n\nDevelopmental and social changes that may impact body image include: Physical and emotional separation from family, requirements for high academic performance, and transitions such as moving from home to residence hall.\n\nNicole L. Mihalopoulos and colleagues developed a study at a private university in the Northeastern United States. Their goal was to determine if college students did truly gain weight in their freshmen year. Test subjects were made up of male and female freshmen college students who lived on campus. They took an online survey to answer questions about their eating patterns, social behaviors, as well as weight. The purpose of this was to discover if the individuals showed signs of body image issues or eating disorders.\n\n125 freshmen were eligible for testing and the average age was 18.4. The results showed that about half of the test subjects gained weight. The men gained an average of 3.7 lbs and women gained an average of 1.7 lbs their freshmen year. These results disproved their hypothesis that the women would have a larger weight gain than the men, but this stays consistent with other studies done on the hypothesis. Even though only 5% of the test subjects showed a weight gain of 15 lbs or greater the authors of this study concluded that the freshmen year in college has potential for weight gain and can even lead to obesity later on in life.\n\n"}
{"id": "19507342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19507342", "title": "GCE Advanced Level in Sri Lanka", "text": "GCE Advanced Level in Sri Lanka\n\nThe Sri Lankan Advanced Level (A-level), is a General Certificate of Education (GCE) qualification exam in Sri Lanka, similar to the British Advanced Level, conducted annually by the Department of Examinations of the Ministry of Education. It is usually taken by students during the optional final two years of collegiate level (grade 12 and 13 or external (non-school) candidates), after they have completed GCE Ordinary Level exams. The majority of candidates enter the exams via their respective schools, while candidates who have finished school education can also apply as private applicants. The qualification also serves as an entrance requirement for Sri Lankan state universities. The exams are held in three mediums: Sinhala, Tamil and English.\n\nThe candidates are expected to study for 2 years at collegiate level before taking the examination. The examination diversifies over 5 major fields of study,\n\nIn each stream, candidates are expected to face 3 subjects related to the specific stream. Additionally, there would be a General English test and a Common General test. Although the result of the General English test is not taken into account for the University Entrance selection criteria, candidates are expected to obtain a pass mark for the Common General test.\n\nThe exams are conducted each year in August, in selected national schools across the country. Invigilators and supervisors are appointed by the Department of Examinations and they are typically qualified teachers of the local school system. Candidates are allowed to sit for the exam 3 times to qualify for a state university, i.e. the candidates have to meet the minimum requirements for university admission within 3 attempts in order gain university admission. Candidates can sit for the examination any number of times in order to qualify for private courses or any other job requirements. The test assessments are carried out by marking panels usually consisting of qualified and experienced school teachers in service, who are guided by supervisors (usually university lecturers). It takes about 4–5 months for the final results of the island wide examination to be released and candidates have to wait further for around one year to enter a local university, depending on the university and the course/field of study.\n\nPhysical Science stream is also known as Maths stream. Mathematics stream has four main subjects: Combined Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry, and Information and Communication Technology (ICT). Under the recent syllabus, candidates can choose between either Chemistry or ICT, though Combined Mathematics and Physics are mandatory.\nCombined Mathematics is a combination of Pure Mathematics and Applied Mathematics. Previously, the candidates had to follow these two subjects separately; by introducing Combined Mathematics syllabi, the two separate subjects were appended and redrafted.\n\nThe curriculum also consists of practical experiments that students are expected to participate in school laboratories.\n\nBiological Science stream consists of three subjects: Biology, Chemistry, Physics, and Agricultural Science as an optional subject. Candidates can choose either Physics or Agricultural Science.\n\nCommerce Stream has three main subjects. They are Accounting, Business Studies and Economics. Candidates do have the option of selecting either Business Studies or Business Statistics and Economics or Information Technology (IT)\n\nTechnology stream was introduced in 2013. The subjects include Engineering Technology, Bio-system Technology, Science for Technology, and ICT, or any other subject from the category. Candidates can choose between either Engineering Technology or Bio-system Technology. Science for Technology is a compulsory subject for both Engineering and Bio-system candidates.\nSince the stream is relatively new, number of schools that have the facilities to teach the stream is limited or null in some areas for those who want to study those subjects.\n\nArts stream consists of Arts, Languages, Logic & Scientific method, Aesthetic, and also Economics subjects.\n\nIt has been noted that in recent years the exam has become extremely competitive and even traumatic for most high school students in Sri Lanka. For the academic year of 2013, out of 55,241 candidates who applied for university admission, only 43.8% were able to gain access to the state universities through the University Grants Commission (UGC), despite satisfying minimum requirements for admission. According to a 2010 study by Child and Adolescent Psychiatry and Mental Health, symptoms of anxiety and depression were common more among students in GCE Advanced Level classes compared to other grades. Students in grade 13 had the second highest depression and anxiety scores, with examination related issues being the most commonly cited problem. Out of the 445 students that were assessed, 22.9% of students in grade 12 and 28.6% in grade 13 reportedly had severe depression, while 28.6% in grade 12 and 32.1% in grade 13 had severe anxiety. Due to the intimidating nature of the exam, family pressure, and social stigma resulting from exam results, most students tend to get severely depressed if they fail to achieve desired results. Some cases of suicide have been linked to the exam.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37329243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37329243", "title": "Hassoum Ceesay", "text": "Hassoum Ceesay\n\nHassoum Ceesay (born 1971) is a Gambian historian, writer and museum curator at the Gambia National Museum. He is one of the sharpest and most prolific Gambian historians.\n\nHassoum Ceesay attended Armitage High School, and Fourah Bay College, University of Sierra Leone. He continued to Canada's Saint Mary's University, in the Nova Scotia capital of Halifax, where he gained a Bachelor of Arts in history in 1999. He was the features editor at \"The Daily Observer\" newspaper in Banjul and editorial writer from 1999 to 2006. He was curator of The Gambia National Museum from 1999 to 2008, curating numerous art and ethnography exhibitions. He gained a Post Graduate Diploma in Museum Studies from the University of Nairobi, Kenya, in 2003. From January 2008 to August 2008 he was Deputy Permanent Secretary and Director of the Press Office for President Jammeh. In 2009 he gained a MA in African History from the University of the Gambia. In 2010 he was Lead Researcher on a UNESCO study of cultural rights in the Gambia. He is currently Director of the Copyright office, The Gambia. Hassoum is credited for the establishment of the newly created Copyright Collecting Society of The Gambia.\n\nHassoum Ceesay is a well-known face on Gambian television, where he frequently speaks on history topics and issues.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "555466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=555466", "title": "IMRAD", "text": "IMRAD\n\nIn scientific writing, IMRAD or IMRaD () (Introduction, Methods, Results, and Discussion) is a common organizational structure (a document format). IMRaD is the most prominent norm for the structure of a scientific journal article of the original research type.\n\nOriginal research articles are typically structured in this basic order\n\nThe plot and the flow of the story of IMRaD is style writing are explained by a 'wine glass model' or hourglass model.\n\nWriting, compliant with IMRaD format (IMRaD writing) typically first presents \"(a) the subject that positions the study from the wide perspective\", \"(b) outline of the study\", develops through \"(c) study method\", and \"(d) the results\", and concludes with \"(e) outline and conclusion of the fruit of each topics\", and \"(f) the meaning of the study from the wide and general point of view\". Here, (a) and (b) are mentioned in the section of the \"Introduction\", (c) and (d) are mentioned in the section of the \"Method\" and \"Result\" respectively, and (e) and (f) are mentioned in the section of the \"Discussion\" or \"Conclusion\".\n\nIn this sense, to explain how to line up the information in IMRaD writing, the 'wine glass model' (see the pattern diagram shown in Fig.1) will be helpful (see pp 2–3 of the Hilary Glasman-deal ). As mentioned in abovementioned textbook, the scheme of 'wine glass model' have two characteristic. First one is \"top-bottom symmetric shape\" and Second one is \"changing width\" i.e. \"the top is wide and it narrows towards the middle, and then widens again as it goes down toward the bottom\". \nThe First one, \"top-bottom symmetric shape\", represents the symmetry of the story development. Note the shape of the top trapezoid (representing the structure of Introduction) and the shape of the trapezoid at the bottom are reversed. This is expressing that the same subject introduced in Introduction will be taken up again in suitable formation for the section of Discussion/Conclusion in these section in the reversed order. (See the relationship between abovementioned (a), (b) and (e), (f).)\n\nThe Second one, \"the change of the width\" of the schema shown in Fig.1, represents the change of generality of the view point. As along the flow of the story development, when the viewpoints are more general, the width of the diagram is expressed wider, and when they are more specialized and focused, the width is expressed narrower.\n\nThe IMRAD format has been adopted by a steadily increasing number of academic journals since the first half of the 20th century. The IMRAD structure has come to dominate academic writing in the sciences, most notably in empirical biomedicine. The structure of most public health journal articles reflects this trend. Although the IMRAD structure originates in the empirical sciences, it now also regularly appears in academic journals across a wide range of disciplines. Many scientific journals now not only prefer this structure but also use the IMRAD acronym as an instructional device in the instructions to their authors, recommending the use of the four terms as main headings. For example, it is explicitly recommended in the \"Uniform Requirements for Manuscripts Submitted to Biomedical Journals\" issued by the International Committee of Medical Journal Editors (previously called the \"Vancouver guidelines\"): \nThe text of observational and experimental articles is usually (but not necessarily) divided into the following sections: Introduction, Methods, Results, and Discussion. This so-called \"IMRAD\" structure is not an arbitrary publication format but rather a direct reflection of the process of scientific discovery. Long articles may need subheadings within some sections (especially Results and Discussion) to clarify their content. Other types of articles, such as case reports, reviews, and editorials, probably need to be formatted differently.\nThe IMRAD structure is also recommended for empirical studies in the 6th edition of the publication manual of the American Psychological Association (APA style). The APA publication manual is widely used by journals in the social, educational and behavioral sciences.\n\nThe IMRAD structure has proved successful because it facilitates literature review, allowing readers to navigate articles more quickly to locate material relevant to their purpose. But the neat order of IMRAD rarely corresponds to the actual sequence of events or ideas of the research presented; the IMRAD structure effectively supports a reordering that eliminates unnecessary detail, and allows the reader to assess a well-ordered and noise-free presentation of the relevant and significant information. It allows the most relevant information to be presented clearly and logically to the readership, by summarizing the research process in an ideal sequence and without unnecessary detail.\n\nThe idealised sequence of the IMRAD structure has on occasion been criticised for being too rigid and simplistic. In a radio talk in 1964 the Nobel laureate Peter Medawar even criticised this instructive text structure for not giving a realistic representation of the thought processes of the writing scientist: \"… the scientific paper may be a fraud because it misrepresents the processes of thought that accompanied or gave rise to the work that is described in the paper\". Medawar's criticism was discussed at the XIXth General Assembly of the World Medical Association in 1965. While respondents may argue that it is too much to ask from such a simple instructional device to carry the burden of representing the entire process of scientific discovery, Medawar's caveat expressed his belief that many students and faculty throughout academia treat the structure as a simple panacea. Medawar and others have given testimony both to the importance and to the limitations of the device.\n\nIn addition to the scientific article itself a brief abstract is usually required for publication. The abstract should, however, be composed to function as an autonomous text, even if some authors and readers may think of it as an almost integral part of the article. The increasing importance of well-formed autonomous abstracts may well be a consequence of the increasing use of searchable digital abstract archives, where a well-formed abstract will dramatically increase the probability for an article to be found by its optimal readership. Consequently, there is a strong recent trend toward developing formal requirements for abstracts, most often structured on the IMRAD pattern, and often with strict additional specifications of topical content items that should be considered for inclusion in the abstract. Such abstracts are often referred to as \"structured abstracts\". The growing importance of abstracts in the era of computerized literature search and information overload has led some users to modify the IMRAD acronym to AIMRAD, in order to give due emphasis to the abstract.\n\nUsually, the IMRAD article sections use the IMRAD words as headings. A few variations can occur, as follows: \n\n\nIn the late 20th century and early 21st, the scientific communities found that the communicative value of journal articles was still much less than it could be if best practices were developed, promoted, and enforced. Thus reporting guidelines (guidelines for how best to report information) arose. The general theme has been to create templates and checklists with the message to the user being, \"your article is not complete until you have done all of these things.\" In the 1970s, the ICMJE (International Committee of Medical Journal Editors) released the Uniform Requirements for Manuscripts Submitted to Biomedical Journals (Uniform Requirements or URM). Other such standards, mostly developed in the 1990s through 2010s, are listed below. The academic medicine community is working hard on trying to raise compliance with good reporting standards, but there is still much to be done; for example, a 2016 review of instructions for authors in 27 emergency medicine journals found insufficient mention of reporting standards, and a 2018 study found that even when journals' instructions for authors mention reporting standards, there is a difference between a mention or badge and enforcing the requirements that the mention or badge represents.\n\nThe advent of a need for best practices in data sharing has expanded the scope of these efforts beyond merely the pages of the journal article itself. In fact, from the most rigorous versions of the evidence-based perspective, the distance to go is still quite formidable.\n\nMost researchers cannot be familiar with all of the many reporting standards that now exist, but it is enough to know which ones must be followed in one's own work, and to know where to look for details when needed. Several organizations provide help with this task of checking one's own compliance with the latest standards: \n\nSeveral important webpages on this topic are: \n\nRelatedly, SHERPA provides compliance-checking tools, and AllTrials provides a rallying point, for efforts to enforce openness and completeness of clinical trial reporting. These efforts stand against publication bias and against excessive corporate influence on scientific integrity.\n\n"}
{"id": "39643966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39643966", "title": "Ilia State University", "text": "Ilia State University\n\nIlia State University (ISU), located in Tbilisi, Georgia, is a higher education institution, established in 2006 as a merger of six different educational and research institutions.\n\nIn its activities, Ilia State University follows the model of a research triangle. This justifies the existence of three interdisciplinary directions at the University:\n\n\nThe university was the first university in Georgia to introduce principles of liberal education.\n\nIn 2012, a new standard for teaching called RESULT (Research and Education Systems United as Learning Tools) was implemented, which means that students and professors are communicating about a specific research issue and carry out research together (research based teaching). The important part of teaching was planned according to this new format by faculty professors.RESULT allows students to learn by \"doing\", i.e., by means of participation in the research projects.\n\nThere are four Schools in the university, each offering undergraduate, graduate and post-graduate programs:\n\n\nThe university operates 25 research institutes, centers and laboratories dispersed across the country.\n\nIlia State University is a member of the following networks and organizations:\n\n\nThe University has established partnership relations with different education institutions abroad, some at university others at faculty or individual level. The list includes:\n\n\nFour field « European » shield.\n\nOn the first azure field, six silver (white) open books signify the first six schools and schools of the Ilia State University while establishing. Books bear inscriptions of the three freedoms that lie at the heart of the University: academic freedom, freedom of conscience and freedom of choice.\n\nThe second field bears a large purple cross forming four parts with Bolnuri-Katskhuri crosses within. The Georgian National Flag signifies the State status of the University.\n\nThe third field with two half silver and half purple crossed keys of Andrew (knowledge keys) signify that the University holds the methods of educations.\n\nOn fourth azure (blue) field three polecat (ermine) fur welted purple academic caps signify the past of the two higher education institutions, their merger and the future of the newly formed University.\n\nBeneath the shield of the coat of arms, the motto ribbon bears the Latin inscription « LIGAMUS», signifying «We Unite» i.e. the University's aspiration to unite research and education, bring together existing knowledge, creating new understanding and passing it on to students and society\n"}
{"id": "53555527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53555527", "title": "Inclusive education in Latin America", "text": "Inclusive education in Latin America\n\nInclusive education in Latin America aims at giving all people of the region the right to access education. Its development consists of four aspects that may define the position of the debate on inclusive education in the region:\n\nIn Latin America as a whole, the most traditional programmes – mainly built around the concepts of equity and quality – exist side by side with those reflecting renewed sensibilities and approaches, through such themes as Education for Sustainable Development (ESD), comprehensive citizenship education, intercultural bilingual education and ICTs, and academic inclusion. Rather than being anchored in one unified approach, the new agendas tend more to combine together, stacking on top of one another and adding up to a sum of divided trends, projects and interventions. They are predominantly based on educational provision and maintain a fairly marginal relationship with the core of the education system (i.e. its essence and substance). The Education Agenda 2030 presents an alternative to a programme of accumulated themes and places Education for Sustainable Development (ESD) and Global Citizenship Education (GCED) at the core of formal, non-formal and informal education through comprehensive measures and academic support.\n\nFurthermore, the incorporation of new subjects to the regional agenda has not induced a rethinking of what is understood in the field of inclusive education or what the options and the paths needed to achieve greater equity and quality truly involves. For example, with respect to achieving intercultural bilingual education, we should ask ourselves whether this is rooted in references and curriculum frameworks common to all or, alternatively, requires separate curricula. Likewise, when considering inclusion, if we should aim to deal with the specific nature of groups linked to intercultural bilingual education with or without a base in universal policies or what type of universalism this should be based on; or rather, whether equity involves guaranteeing access to education for these groups or differentiating curriculum approaches and pedagogic strategies to lend education meaning and relevance for them.\n\nGenerally speaking, education systems are immersed in a variety of actions that seek to overcome the lack or inadequacy of common conceptual threads among the various educational levels. It is possible to consider this while still acknowledging the lack of unified policy frameworks and the ordering of priorities. In any case, education systems are often constructed more in terms of service providers as opposed to providers of learning opportunities.\n\nWithin the field of inclusive education, there are a variety of approaches, policies and interventions that may place the responsibility for the achievement of inclusion outside the education system and instead on those systems that assimilate people with special needs. The multiple foundations of inclusive education policies reflect an adaptable concept that generally lacks its own meaning and projection but instead serves the purpose of other policies.\n\nLatin America presents a case of unfinished democratization when it comes to genuine inclusion and educational achievements. Certainly, and particularly in the last 15 years, the region has made notable progress in at least four fundamental respects that fall under what could be termed ‘educational progressivism’: i) the strengthening of the concept of education as a right and public good to the detriment of the concept of education as a service and consumer good; ii) expansion of the right to education through an extension of compulsory schooling, with an emphasis on lower and upper secondary education; iii) greater investment in education as a percentage of GDP of each country and a steady improvement of the conditions and inputs aimed at supporting teaching and learning processes, chiefly with respect to physical infrastructures, equipment and materials; and finally iv) the priority given to improving the working conditions and pay of teachers.\n\nEducational progressivism has generated the political will to bring about positive change in the regulatory framework and the conditions to implement the right to education and the improvement of learning opportunities, but this has not been matched by the political will to provide each and every child and young person a chance to participate in education and learning. For the most part, this endeavour has lacked the full-bodied institutional, curricular and academic policies needed to achieve this goal. More often, educational progressivism has tended to make use of the traditional battery of classroom approaches thought ‘to be advanced’, as in the case of the different variants of constructivism rather than to reflect on what are the most pertinent combinations of curriculum and teaching approaches to support and guide learners towards gaining access to relevant and sustainable learning processes. Currently, the urgent need to realize a huge academic effort tailored to the individual learner has not been sufficiently weighted – nor has this effort been valued or recognized – as a fundamental ingredient for policy change in education.\n\nHow to situate oneself in the most recent past and present in order to get to the root of the problem of achieving inclusive education. A superficial historical perspective ranging over the past four decades runs the risk of presenting an ideological vision classifying this period in terms of gains and setbacks, without any nuances or transitions. Yet, it is important to observe that the challenges to inclusive education have not been confronted or solutions channelled sustainably and satisfactorily in a great variety of ideological and political frameworks. If by inclusion, we understand equity and justice in the processes, participation and outcomes, which entails seeking equality starting from the recognition of differences, then inclusion in this sense constitutes an unfinished business on account of both conservatism and progressivism in education.\n\nFrom a joint regional perspective, it is possible to identify four orders of problems that obstruct inclusive education:\n\n"}
{"id": "36147004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36147004", "title": "Infoterm", "text": "Infoterm\n\nThe International Information Centre for Terminology (Infoterm) was founded in 1971 by UNESCO. Its goal is \"to support and co-ordinate international co-operation in the field of terminology.\" Infoterm members are national, international and regional institutions, organizations, networks and specialized public, semi-public or other non-profit institutions engaged in devising and standardizing terminology. Members are drawn from Africa, the Americas, Asia and Europe.\n\nSince the early 1930s in Wieselburg, Austria, industrialist Eugen Wüster led a private centre studying terminology as part of his engineering firm. His research on international technical communication resulted in the 1936 founding of the Technical Committee for Terminology Standardization of the International Organization for Standardization (ISO/TC 37). During the 1950s and 1960s Wüster formulated a general theory of terminology and was a pioneer of terminological standardization. In 1951 the Austrian Standards Institute (ASI) made Wüster general secretary responsible for its terminology principles and coordination efforts (the ISO/TC 37 technical committee).\n\nAs a result of his pioneering activity, in 1971 UNESCO signed a contract with ASI establishing Infoterm as an international organization; from that year until 2008 Infoterm would assume guidance of the secretariat that Wüster had led for its first 20 years. After Wüster's death in 1977, his fame as the father of terminology science gained widespread currency, and Infoterm took control of his legacy in 1982. In 1996 Infoterm became an independent international non-profit scientific association and established the Eugen Wüster Archive at the University of Vienna.\n\nInfoterm aims to coordinate terminological cooperation internationally to facilitate subject-area communication and knowledge exchange, enabling all who are active in a particular field to participate. Its main areas of action are international collaboration on terminology, terminology policy, legal aspects of terminology data (copyright), theory and methodology of structured content (terminology database management) and terminological standardization.\n\nFrom 1997, Infoterm began awarding the now triennial Eugen Wüster Prize to recognize outstanding performance in the field of terminology. \n\nPrize winners have included:\n\nInfoterm is represented on ten committees or subcommittees of the International Organization for Standardization:\n\nSince 1988 Infoterm has maintained regular contact with the Esperanto world through \"Terminologia Esperanto-Centro\", the terminology centre of the World Esperanto Association, known by its Esperanto initials UEA. After many years of friendly relations, the UEA joined Infoterm as an associate member in May 2011 with the signing of a co-operation agreement. Goals include exchanging information, mutual support and joint activities for projects, meetings, publications and so on, especially in the field of terminology.\n"}
{"id": "6897058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6897058", "title": "International Max Planck Research School for Molecular and Cellular Life Sciences", "text": "International Max Planck Research School for Molecular and Cellular Life Sciences\n\nThe International Max Planck Research School for Molecular Life Sciences (short: IMPRS-LS) is a German centre for postgraduate training and research in life sciences. It is one among over 60 International Max Planck Research Schools in Germany. It is located in Munich and was established in 2005. The Ph.D. program is organised by three of the Max Planck Institutes and two universities in Munich.\n\nTo date more than 60 International Max Planck Research Schools (short: IMPRS) have been established in Germany, each representing a joint cooperative of Max Planck Institutes and one or several German universities. The concept for the International Max Planck Research Schools was jointly developed in 1999 by the Max Planck Society and the so-called Hochschul Rektoren Konferenz (HRK), a body representing all German universities. The aim of these PhD programs is to offer German and international doctoral students a first class education in innovative and interdisciplinary research environments with facilities and research projects. Each International Max Planck Research School covers a specific topic in one of the following areas: chemistry, physics & technology, biology & medicine or human sciences. In contrast to traditional doctoral education in Germany where a doctoral student is trained and supervised individually by a professor or group leader, Max Planck Research Schools offer structured programs with a defined curriculum and a supervision by a committee of normally 3 or more expert scientists. Language of instruction is English. German language courses are provided to interested international students. \nIn order to maintain highest educational standards, all IMPRS programs are evaluated on a regular basis by an international and independent scientific commission.\n\nThe International Max Planck Research School for Molecular and Cellular Life Sciences (short: IMPRS-LS) was established in 2005. The research oriented PhD program is jointly organized by the Max Planck Institute of Biochemistry, the Max Planck Institute of Neurobiology and the Max Planck Institute of Psychiatry in cooperation with two of Germany's leading universities, the Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München and the Technische Universität München. Over 60 research groups from the Munich area participate in the program, covering many aspects of life sciences including biochemistry, cell biology, molecular medicine, neurobiology and structural biology.\n\nIMPRS-LS is 100% committed to basic research and aims to address fundamental questions in the following research areas: \n\n\nAlthough students specialize in a particular research topic, the interdisciplinary context of the program facilitates interactions with other research groups and fosters the ability of cross-frontier thinking. Laboratory work is supplemented by seminars, summer schools, elective courses, training in soft skills and participation in national or international conferences. Currently, some 140 doctoral students are enrolled in IMPRS-LS and approximately 50% of those come from abroad (Germany: 50%, Europe: 30%, Overseas: 20%)\n\nAnnually, 30 to 40 doctoral students from all over the world are accepted to the program. Deadline for application is January 6, each year. All doctoral students receive a fellowship covering living expenses and tuition. Entry requirement is a MSc degree (or equivalent) in the fields of biology, biochemistry, bioinformatics, biophysics, biotechnology, medicine or in a related discipline. The doctoral degree is usually awarded by one of the two participating Munich universities. International doctoral students may also obtain their doctoral degree from a university residing in their home country.\n\nCurrently, more than 250 doctoral students from all over the world are working at the Max Planck Institutes of Biochemistry and Neurobiology, together with numerous doctoral students from close by university laboratories. Amongst other activities, graduate students organize a regular social get together, a seminar series, and <interact>, an annual student symposium.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36122956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36122956", "title": "International Society for Performance Improvement", "text": "International Society for Performance Improvement\n\nThe International Society for Performance Improvement (ISPI) is a non-profit association for performance improvement professionals dedicated to improving individual, organizational, and societal functioning, productivity, and accomplishment in the workplace.\n\nISPI has both a US and international membership base with members in more than 53 countries. In addition to the international organization ISPI sponsors local chapters in major cities through the United States and Canada and has affiliates in Europe, Africa, and Asia as well as members in South America and Australia. The association’s members work in various types of organizations, including business, industry, government, military, education (K-12 and post secondary), non-profit and as independent consultants.\n\nWith its roots in the 1960s, Human Performance Technology (HPT), sometimes known as Human Performance Improvement (HPI), grew primarily from behavioral psychology and Instructional Systems Design (ISD). Nowadays HPT also draws from many other disciplines such as Human Factors, quality improvement, process improvement, Instructional and Educational Technologies, Organization Development, motivation and reward research, training research to change performance and achieve worthy outcomes. (See ISPI, 2007.)\n\nHPT aims to overcome problems and address opportunities for improved outcomes at societal, organizational, process and individual levels. It uses systemic, rigorous analytical processes to identify and define requirements for change, determine existing obstacles and potential facilitators for specified changes, and select and develop appropriate interventions to improve outcomes. Following tenets of evidence-based practice, HPT also initiates and implements interventions effectively to achieve meaningful and sustained change in outcomes throughout their life cycle. Evaluation is also a central aspect of HPT, and is used during planning, carrying out, and following up interventions by measuring results against identified requirements.\n\nIn 2002 ISPI convened a group of workplace managers, business consultants, and academics met to define what skills and abilities a performance technology practitioner needed. That group established a set of ten standards of performance:\n\nThat set of standards was validated in a subsequent study conducted by graduate students at Indiana University.\n\nIn addition to the ten standards, ISPI created a code of ethics as a guide for its members. This set of standards and code of ethics are a basis for ISPI’s Certified Performance Technologist credential (CPT).\n\nThe CPT designation permits individuals to demonstrate proficiency in the ten Standards of Performance Technology. This demonstration enables employers and clients to determine the qualifications and applied skills of a performance improvement professional with a standardized measurement. The certification indicates that the CPT has demonstrated that her or his work results in measurable positive impact in the workplace. The certification also provides the CPT with the means to promote his or her skills and experience. Since the certification is performance-based, not education-based, individuals who demonstrate proficiency in ten Standards of Performance Technology and commit to the ISPI Code of Ethics can be certified regardless of their educational background. Re-certification is required every three years thus demonstrating ongoing learning, growth and professional development\n\nThe mission of ISPI is to advance the field of Human Performance Technology, advocate its application, and enhance the skills and professional standing of its practitioners.\n\nISPI’s stated vision is that “our technology will be recognized as the premier approach to improving the performance of people, groups and organizations and that we who competently apply it will be widely recognized by employers and clients as reliable sources of significant value”.\n\nThe roots of ISPI began on January 29, 1962 at the Randolph Air Force Base Officers’ Club in San Antonio, Texas, during a dinner meeting held to organize the Programmed Learning Society. The stated purpose of the Society was to collect, develop, and diffuse information concerned with programmed instruction.\n\nIn March 1962 the Society adopted a new name—National Society for Programmed Instruction (NSPI) and a constitution was adopted.\n\nIn 1973 the name was changed to National Society for Performance and Instruction to reflect a broader interest in improving workplace performance using solutions that are both instructional and non-instructional (job-aids, work redesign, process improvement, etc.).\n\nIn 1992 the Human Performance Technology (HPT) model was developed to reflect the work of Thomas Gilbert, one of the founders of the field of human performance improvement and a long-time member of NSPI. That same year the Handbook of Human Performance Technology edited by Harold Stolovitch and Erica Keeps was co-published with Jossey-Bass, Inc. to provide readers with the first comprehensive guide to the fundamental knowledge necessary to improve human performance in the workplace.\n\nIn June 1995 the membership voted to change the name to the International Society for Performance Improvement. With members living and working in more than 30 countries, it was felt that ISPI more accurately reflected the breadth and geographic diversity of the membership and acknowledged the wide variety of interventions that comprise human performance technology. That same year the Board approved funding to establish the ISPI Book Program. The book program better positioned ISPI as the primary source of information about HPT.\n\nIn 1996 the Board approved the development of a Research Endowment, investing $150,000 with the interest being used to fund research projects. The fund’s support of research to advance the field of human performance ensured ISPI’s continuing leadership as the primary disseminator of performance improvement information.\n\nIn 1999 the Principles & Practices Institute debuted at Annual Conference. The three-day Institute was designed disseminate the integration of HPT models, concepts, and research findings through the analysis of real cases for the first time. The Handbook for Human Performance: Improving Individual and Organizational Performance Worldwide (2nd Edition) edited by Erica Keeps and Harold Stolovitch debuted at Annual Conference in 1999. The revised Handbook focused on the global nature of HPT.\n\nISPI hosts an annual conference in major cities in the U.S. and Canada. The ISPI EMEA affiliate hosts an annual conference in Europe. Additional educational events include pre-conference one- and two-day workshops, a monthly webinar, a quarterly experts’ series, the Performance and Practices Institute, the Certified Performance Technology Workshop and topics presented at local chapter meetings throughout the year.\n\nISPI's Award of Excellence program, which was founded in 1963, is designed to showcase the people, products, innovations, and organizations that represent excellence in the field of human performance technology (HPT) on an annual basis.\nChapters of Merit\n\nHonorary Awards\n\nISPI publishes information relevant to human performance improvement in three publications. Each is described below.\n\nPIJ is geared toward practitioners of performance technology in the workplace. Learn from hands-on experiences with models, interventions, \"how-to\" guides, and ready-to-use job aids, as well as research articles. Performance Improvement also offers updates on trends, reviews, and field viewpoints. The journal deals with all types of interventions and all phases of the HPT process. The common theme is performance improvement practice or technique that is supported by research or germane theory. PIJ is published 10 times each year.\n\nPIQ is a peer-reviewed journal created to stimulate professional discussion in the field and to advance the discipline of HPT through publishing scholarly works. Its emphasis is on human performance technologies such as front-end analysis or evaluation. It also offers literature reviews and experimental studies with a scholarly base, and some case studies. PIQ is published four times each year.()\n\nPX contains feature articles highlighting current developments and ideas in performance improvement, as well as regular columns written by dedicated professionals spotting trends, presenting Human Performance Technology (HPT) case studies, and delving into behavioral science. The columns are categorized by titles below in the Performance Archives. PerformanceXpress is published monthly.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1608949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1608949", "title": "Irawati Karve", "text": "Irawati Karve\n\nIrawati Karve (1905 – August 11 ,1970) was an anthropologist, sociologist, educationist and writer from Maharashtra, India.\n\nKarve was born in 1905 to a wealthy Chitpavan Brahmin family and was named after the Irrawaddy River in Burma where her father, Ganesh Hari Karmarkar, was working for the Burma Cotton Company. She attended the girls boarding school Huzurpaga in Pune from the age of seven and then studied philosophy at Fergusson College, from which she graduated in 1926. She then obtained a Dakshina Fellowship to study sociology under G. S. Ghurye at Bombay University, obtaining a master's degree in 1928 with a thesis on the subject of her own caste titled \"The Chitpavan Brahmans — An Ethnic Study\".\n\nKarve married Dinkar Dhondo Karve, who taught chemistry in a school, while studying with Ghurye. Although her husband was from a socially distinguished Brahmin family, the match did not meet with approval from her father, who had hoped that she would marry into the ruling family of a princely state. Dinkar was a son of Dhondo Keshav Karve, a campaigner for women's rights who, somewhat contradictorily, opposed Dinkar's decision to send her to Germany for further studies.\n\nThe time in Germany, which commenced in November 1928, was financed by a loan from Jivraj Mehta, a member of the Indian National Congress, and was inspired by Dinkar's own educational experiences in that country, where he had obtained his PhD in organic chemistry a decade or so earlier. She studied at the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute of Anthropology, Human Heredity, and Eugenics, was awarded a doctorate two years later and then returned to her husband in India, where the couple lived a rather unconventional life less bound by the social strictures that were common at that time. Her husband was an atheist and she explained her own visits to the Hindu shrine to Vithoba at Pandharpur as out of deference for \"tradition\" rather than belief. Despite all this, theirs was essentially a middle-class Hindu family in outlook and deed.\n\nKarve worked as an administrator at SNDT Women's University in Bombay from 1931 to 1936 and did some postgraduate teaching in the city. She moved to Pune's Deccan College as a Reader in sociology in 1939 and remained there for the rest of her career.\n\nAccording to Nandini Sundar, Karve was the first Indian female anthropologist, a discipline that in India during her lifetime was generally synonymous with sociology. She had wide-ranging academic interests, including anthropology, anthropometry, serology, Indology and palaeontology as well as collecting folk songs and translating feminist poetry. She was essentially a diffusionist, inspired by several intellectual schools of thought and in some respects emulating the techniques used by W. H. R. Rivers. These influences included classical Indology, ethnology as practised by bureaucrats of the British Raj and also German eugenics-based physical anthropology. In addition, she had an innate interest in fieldwork. Sundar notes that \"as late as 1968 she retained a belief in the importance of mapping social groups like subcastes on the basis of anthropometric and what was then called 'genetic' data (blood group, colour vision, hand-clasping, and hypertrichosis)\".\n\nShe founded the department of anthropology at what was then Poona University (now the University of Pune).\n\nKarve served for many years as the head of the Department of Sociology and Anthropology at Deccan College, Pune (University of Pune). She presided over the Anthropology Division of the National Science Congress held in New Delhi in 1947. She wrote in both Marathi and English.\n\nSundar says that She provides various possible reasons why Karve's effect has been less than that of people such as Ghurye and Louis Dumont. These include her location at an academic centre that carried less prestige than, say, those in Delhi and Bombay and because she concentrated on the classical anthropological concern relating to origins at a time when her fellow academics were moving from that to more specialised matters underpinned by functionalism. In addition, her lasting impact may have been affected due to none of her PhD students being able to carry her work forward: unlike, say, Ghurye's students, they failed to establish themselves in academia. There was also the issue of her use of a niche publisher — her employers, Deccan College — for her early works rather than a mainstream academic house such as Oxford University Press, although this may have been imposed upon her.\n\nAfter Karve's death, Durga Bhagwat, a contemporary Marathi intellectual who had also studied under Ghurye but left the course, wrote a scathing critique of Karve. Sundar summarises this as containing \"charges of plagiarism, careerism, manipulation of persons, suppressing the work of others, etc. Whatever the truth of these charges, the essay does Bhagwat little credit.\"\n\nAlthough Karve's work on kinship was based on anthropometric and linguistic surveys that are now considered unacceptable, there has been a revival of academic interest in that and some other aspects of her work, such as ecology and Maharashtrian culture.\n\nHer range of reading was wide, encompassing Sanskrit epics such as the \"Ramayana\" to the Bhakti poets, Oliver Goldsmith, Jane Austen, Albert Camus and Alistair Maclean, and her library of books related to academic subjects now forms a part of the collection of Deccan College.\n\nAmong Karve's publications are:\n\n\nNotes\n\nCitations\n\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "24759954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24759954", "title": "Islamic Azad University, Khomeyni Shahr Branch", "text": "Islamic Azad University, Khomeyni Shahr Branch\n\nThe Islamic Azad University, Khomeyni Shahr Branch (Also written Khomeynishahr, Khomeyni-Shahr, Khomeini-Shahr) (IAUKHSH) is a branch of the Islamic Azad University and is located in Khomeyni Shahr, the north western zone of Isfahan, the cultural capital of Iran. It was established 17 May 1988. The university serves more than 9000 students at undergraduate and postgraduate levels. It has 530 full and part-time faculty members carrying out education and research in different fields. Due to its geographical location which borders one of the best state universities of Iran, i.e. Isfahan University of Technology, it has made an astonishing opportunity for the students to study in different areas. The admission to university is based on entrance examination and the admission rate is 10%. With over twenty five years of service, this university is now one of the most prominent centers in Isfahan Province and one of the most distinguished ones in higher education in Iran, and with its precise and professional management in a 20-year strategic framework in different research, scientific, cultural and educational fields, it has gained a lot of domestic and foreign recognition.\n\nIAUKHSH campus is one of the largest university campus in the Middle East located in Khomeyni Shahr, Isfahan, occupying about 173 acres (700,000 m) in the city of Khomeyni Shahr in the pleasant touristic province of Isfahan. The largest academic library of Iran is located on this campus.\n\n\nThe IAU, Khomeinishahr branch currently presents 21 undergraduate (B.Sc. & B.A) programs:\n\nFaculty of Mechanical & Civil Engineering\n\nFaculty of Engineering\nFaculty of Humanities\n\nAt present, the IAU, Khomeinishahr branch has 9 graduate (M.Sc. & M.A) programs:\n\n\"Faculty of Mechanical & Civil Engineering\"\n\"Faculty of Engineering\"\n\"Faculty of Humanities\"\n\nYoung researchers’ club was established by the university for young and talented students who pursue academic research. The club provides its members with such facilities as, internet access, recreational and sports equipment, awards, loans, and field trips. Moreover, it provides opportunities for members to take part in academic workshops, scientific researches, and meetings at state and national levels. All scholars between the ages of 15 to 30 may join this club provided that they meet the requirements for admission. Furthermore, a number of scientific associations are active in different research activities. They are as follows:\n\nThough the university website is not updated regularly, this list is mentioned on it:\nA number of students' registered inventions with superior ranking in International competitions:\n\n1. Full – automatic dishwasher\n\n2. Microscopic homogenization of surfaces through penetration method\n\n3. Liquid mechanical pump\n\n4. Vehicle side mirror with the capability of vision in several directions\n\n5. Car hood movable from front and back\n\n6. Rubber sclerometer\n\n7. Intelligent anti-lock brake for motorcycle\n\n8. 11-Function carpentry device\n\n9. Wetting device and gas preparatory device for polymetric fuel cell\n\n10. Simple geer designing software\n\n11. Manufacture of electric soldering iron by using graphite energized by 5 to 24 – volt batteries\n\n12. Car and house alarms capable of using coil\n\n13. Electrochemical CU.C.AL battery without ion exchange\n\n14. Mechanical switch torque and high – stroke stimulator of micro – switch\n\n15. Hydroelectric device converting fluid energy to constant energy\n\n16. Air pollutant purification device special for industrial centers\n\n17. Device determining the mass center of inhomogeneous and human non-rigid center\n\n18. Intelligent direction – finder mirrors\n\n19. Full-spinning, ball-bearing crane of columns with two catchers\n\n20. Controlling sleepwalkers by individual relative positioning system\n\n21. Vehicle balance system and prevention from being overturned by pump weights\n\n22. Floating immersed propeller (boat)\n\n23. Design and construction of floating autonomous system (boat)\n\n24. Design and construction of doubled-hull unmanned boat (catamaran) with floating width stabilizer winglets\n\n25. Weakening glass in automobiles\n\n26. Construction of a line following robot\n\nThe university has an unofficial student Instagram page named \"IIAUKHSH\" which is managed by a group of students and currently has more than 6500 followers. This group of students also run and manage a Telegram channel name \"IIAUKHSH\". Both aforementioned page and channels are not confirmed by the university to this day.\n\nThe university also had several official Telegram channels, and the most successful ones were ran by \"education office\" and \"public affairs\", but after telegram censorship in Iran, an order from the central branch of university to halt all branch activities on Telegram and move to national Iranian messengers, these accounts activity were halted (and as of today, 13-Oct-2018 will be deleted in a few weeks due to telegram application automatic account termination after a certain period of inactivity).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45212694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45212694", "title": "Jacaranda Software", "text": "Jacaranda Software\n\nJacaranda Software was an Australian developer and publisher of educational computer games for children. It was based in Brisbane, Australia and published under the \"inspirational\" leadership of John Collins. The team worked as a department of Jacaranda-Wiley; the Australian imprint of American publishing company, Wiley. While it was considered initially as an experimental venture, it proved to be profitable from its first year through to its closure in the early 1990s. Jacaranda Software released titles for a range of computer systems, including the Apple II, Commodore 64, Macintosh, Microbee and BBC Micro. After the department closed, former employees David Smith, Bruce Mitchell, and Steve Luckett continued to write software for schools, under the name Greygum Software. They bought remaining stock, rights, and equipment from Jacaranda. As of 2015, several popular former Jacaranda titles are still available in Windows and Macintosh versions from Greygum Software, including Goldfields, , Desert Quest and Crossing the Mountains.\n\n"}
{"id": "55737790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55737790", "title": "Judith Kilpatrick", "text": "Judith Kilpatrick\n\nDame Judith Ann Gladys Kilpatrick, DBE (\"née\" Foxley) (20 February 1952 – 5 September 2002) was an English head teacher who was noted for her work in the improvements in examination results at the City of Portsmouth Girls' School (now Portsmouth Academy) which led to the school acquiring advanced training school status in 2002. She first entered the teaching profession in 1974 at Regent Park's Girls School and went on to serve as a Liaison officer for schools in industry for South East Hampshire from 1987 to 1989. Kilpatrick later moved to Portsmouth where she had the deputy headship of the King Richard School and was appointed to the post of headmistress for the first time in her career in 1993 at The Wavell School.\n\nShe moved back to Portsmouth in 1995 and was appointed the new headmistress of the City of Portsmouth Girls' School and sough to achieve high standards from her students and colleagues. Kilpatrick was instrumental in persuading other schools to share teachers with challenging schools in an effort to improve standards and deliver a high quality education. In her later years, she was a member of various quangos which included the Home Office Advisory Committee on the Misuse of Drugs and served on the executive council of the Teacher Training Agency. Kilpatrick also represented the National Association of Head Teachers on the Portsmouth educational committee. After her death, she posthumously won a lifetime achievement award and a road was named in her honour\n\nKilpatrick was born Judith Ann Gladys Foxley at St. Helen's Hospital in St Helens, Lancashire on 20 February 1952. Her family's ancestors were traditionally employed in the mines. Kilpatrick was the only child of James \"Jim\" Foxley, who was a treasurer for Bury Health Authority, and later worked for the National Health Service. Her mother's name was Kathleen Alice, \"née\" Kingdon. Kilpatrick was educated at the Cowley Grammar School for Girls and later went to the University of Kent. After graduation, she took a Postgraduate Certificate in Education at the University of Southampton and thus qualified as a teacher. The remainder of Kilpatrick's working life was spent on or near the South Coast of England but did not lose her northern accent.\n\nHer first job was as a teacher of English, history and integrated studies at Regent Park's Girls School from 1974 to 1985. Kilpatrick then completed an additional year as head of careers at the school and later served a stint as a liaison officer for schools and industry in South East Hampshire between 1987 and 1989. She later moved to Portsmouth where she was made the deputy headteacher of the King Richard School in the city's Paulsgrove district. Kilpatrick's first job as the headmistress of a school came four years later at The Wavell School in Farmborough. She married Andrew Kilpatrick, a fellow headteacher, on 22 October 1994, after Andrew divorced.\n\nIn 1995, Kilpatrick returned to Portsmouth and was appointed the new headmistress of the City of Portsmouth Girls' School (now Portsmouth Academy). There she sought to achieve high standards from her students and colleagues and the school's General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) results became the best in the immediate area, and better than most schools in the area that struggled with the issues originating from a disadvantaged neighbourhood. Kilpatrick was instrumental in persuading other schools to share teachers with challenging schools which was an idea she created to improve standards and deliver a high quality education. She supported single-sex education and scorned suggestions that children are less socially developed by going to a same-sex school.\n\nHer success and work at the school was noticed by the incoming Labour government after the victory in the 1997 general election. Good practice in the inner cities was keen to be replicated by the government and singled out the City of Portsmouth Girl's School as their best example. The school was awarded Beacon Status in 2000 which identified it as \"an exceptionally good school\" and the award allowed them to exchange their expertise with other schools. In June that year, Kilpatrick became the second teacher to become a dame in the Queen's Birthday's Honours list for \"services to education\". She said of the decision to appoint her a DBE,\n\nI'm absolutely thrilled to bits. It reflects well on all my colleagues, and that's the important thing. You don't get these sat in your office, you get them working with colleagues … Schools are about partnerships. It's about trusting your staff. Setting the parameters against which we're going to work, but then trusting people to do that—monitoring, supporting, and generally working with colleagues not above colleagues.The City of Portsmouth Girls' School was awarded training school status in 2001 and was given advanced training school status the following year which recognised its expertise in recruiting and retaining staff through \"excellent initial teacher training and continuing professional development\". Additionally, the school trained current and prospective middle managers and classroom assistants who were among the non-teaching staff involved in this scheme. Kilpatrick was a member of various quangos: she joined the Home Office advisory committee on the misuse on drugs in March 2002, and was appointed to the executive council of the Teacher Training Agency four months later. She also represented the National Association of Head Teachers on the Portsmouth educational committee, and this brought her to national attention. Kilpatrick was also a member of the Southern Strategic Partnership, the Wessex Partnership and the Portsmouth Lifelong Learning Partnership.\n\nActing as the director of a teacher training session at the start of the autumn term of the 2002/2003 school year on 5 September, she collapsed mid-sentence as a result of a ruptured thoracic aneurysm. Kilpatrick never regained consciousness, and died that same day at the Queen Alexandra Hospital in Portsmouth in spite of not having any previous illnesses. She was survived by her two stepchildren; in 1998, she had divorced their father, Andrew Kelvin Kilpatrick, a headteacher whom she had married in 1994. On 17 September, Kilpatrick's funeral took place in Portsmouth and was cremated. A memorial service to celebrate her life was held three days later. Kilpatrick was posthumously given an lifetime achievement award in an ceremony organised by \"The News\" on 25 November. In 2014, a development of 46 homes in Cosham was named Dame Judith Way in her honour and a plaque was also unveiled in her memory.\n"}
{"id": "1690950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1690950", "title": "Kathmandu University", "text": "Kathmandu University\n\nKathmandu University (KU) () is an autonomous governmental, public institution. It is the third oldest university in Nepal, located in Dhulikhel, Kavrepalanchok District, about 30 km east of Kathmandu. KU was established in 1991 with the motto \"Quality Education for Leadership\". This university operates through its seven schools and from premises in Dhulikhel, Lalitpur and Bhaktapur. The university provides undergraduate and postgraduate programs in a variety of fields.\n\nProf. Dr. Subodh Sharma was appointed as registrar of the university in 2018.\n\nAs a precursor to the establishment of a University, a team of dedicated people first established Kathmandu Valley Campus (a private campus under the affiliation of Tribhuvan University) in 1985 to provide education in the Intermediate of Science (ISc) level. The same team proposed the establishment of Kathmandu University. After a thorough discussion on the proposal in the Parliament, Kathmandu University was granted by an Act of Parliament on December 11, 1991.\n\nWhen established in November 1991 as a non-profit, autonomous, public university \nby an Act KU became the first privately managed public institution of higher learning in Nepal. The predecessor of the university was the Kathmandu Valley Campus founded in 1985. The campus started as a private campus affiliated to Tribhuvan University and offered courses in science at the intermediate level (I.Sc).\n\nKathmandu University started its academic program in 1992 with an Intermediate in Science program. In 1994, the university launched Bachelor programs in Pharmacy, Biology and Engineering (electrical and electronics, computer and mechanical). Later, Environmental Engineering and Sciences were included in its academic program. M.Phil and Ph.D. programs were started in 1997. The university also started a Law program, under the School of Law in 2014.\n\n\nKathmandu University provides education through seven schools:\n\nThe School of Medical Sciences (KUSMS) and the School of Engineering have the most students. The School of Medical Science was formerly known as KUMS, but in 2006 its name was changed to KUSMS, with the view that the school not only trains medical graduates and postgraduates but also runs paramedical disciplines. The School of Science and School of Engineering are present in the university premises, unlike other schools which have affiliated colleges around the nation. School of Engineering currently runs undergraduate and graduate level courses mostly in Electrical and Electronics, Mechanical and Computer Engineering. It has also recently launched Civil and Geomatics Engineering. The School of Science is currently conducting classes in B.Sc Human Biology, Environmental Science and Engineering, Bio Technology and Applied Physics. Chemical Engineering, BSc nursing In Midwifery, and Bachelors in Physiotherapy is the recent addition to the list of the subject being offered by KU to students in Nepal for the first time ever.\n\nThe university provides undergraduate to postgraduate programs in the fields of engineering, science, management, arts, education, law, and medical sciences. It provides undergraduate courses in engineering (Chemical, Civil, Computer, Electrical & Electronics, Mechanical, Environmental, Geomatics, Architecture ), Science (Biotechnology, Computer Science, Environmental science, Pharmacy, Human biology, Computational Mathematics & Applied physics), Management (Bachelors in Business Administration, executive MBA, Masters in Business Administration\n...), Arts (music, media, community development, fine art, and economics), medical science(MBBS, MD/MS, Mch/DM in various medical specialties and subspecialties, B Sc Nursing, PCL Nursing, Bachelor in Nursing, BSc Midwifery, Bachelor in Physiotherapy BDS). Chemical Engineering first time in Nepal. Graduate courses in science, engineering, pharmacy, development and business administration are also offered.\n\nThe university, in partnership with Rangjung Yeshe Institute, runs the Centre for Buddhist Studies. The centre offers undergraduate and graduate programs leading to Bachelor of Arts and Master of Arts degrees in Buddhist Studies and Himalayan languages. It provides research facilities for visiting international scholars of Buddhism for their graduate or postgraduate projects. In the summer, it hosts study-abroad programs and conducts intensive language immersion programs in Tibetan, Nepali, and Sanskrit.\n\nThe university owns Kathmandu University High School.\n\nExcept for the School of Education and School of Management, the schools operate from the university's premises at Dhulikhel. Four batches of students have completed their MBA programs from the School of Management. The first convocation of the university was held on 7 August 1995 and the convocation address was given by management guru, Dr. M.B. Atreya of India. The second convocation was held on 8 December 1996 and the convocation address was delivered by Professor N. Gyanam, Vice Chancellor, Pondicherry University and the President of Association of Indian Universities. The third convocation was held on 9 November 1997 and the convocation address was delivered by Professor (Dr.) M. Rammohan Rao, director, Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore, India. The fourth convocation, held on 17 September 1998, was addressed by the prominent scholar and ex-vice chancellor of Norwegian Institute of Technology, Norway. For the first time in Nepal, Kathmandu University convocated a batch of environmental, mechanical, electrical, electronics and computer science and engineering graduates.\n\n\nKathmandu University has consistently been ranked as Nepal's #1 University. It is well known for its engineering branches and is the topmost engineering college in Nepal. The placements, internship opportunities, and vibrant college life add a feather to Kathmandu University's cap.\n\nKathmandu University held a Ceremony at the main campus to mark the beginning of its year-long Silver Jubilee celebration. A Silver Jubilee Celebration Organizing Committee has been formed under the chairmanship of the Chancellor, Rt. Hon'ble Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli.\n\nSome of the programs envisioned include establishing Silver Jubilee Logo, inaugurating newly constructed buildings and constructing new ones, establishing Silver Jubilee Tower, felicitating well-known national and international scholars, organizing presentation programs with scholars from different fields, organizing KU Oration, exhibiting academic works of KU Family, publishing Silver Jubilee Souvenir and books, and organizing various sports and cultural programs.\n\nRt. Hon'ble President Bidhya Devi Bhandari, who graced the Ceremony as the Chief Guest, marked the inauguration of Silver Jubilee by unveiling the Silver Jubilee Logo and inaugurated the newly constructed buildings. Rt. Hon'ble Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli, the Chancellor of the University, chaired the ceremony and laid the foundation stone of the Silver Jubilee Tower.\n\nThe Inaugural Ceremony included enlightening speeches of Hon'ble Minister for Education Giriraj Mani Pokhrel, Prof. Suresh Raj Sharma, the Founding Vice Chancellor of KU, Mr. Daman Nath Dhungana, Chairman of the Board of Trustees, and Prof. Dr. Ram Kantha Makaju Shrestha, Vice Chancellor.\n\nSeveral cultural presentations were held on the occasion along with plantation of plants of variety of species. Renowned personalities, heads of district offices along with local residents and KU Family showed their gracious presence and participation in the ceremony.\n\n"}
{"id": "2766064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2766064", "title": "King Mongkut's University of Technology North Bangkok", "text": "King Mongkut's University of Technology North Bangkok\n\nKing Mongkut's University of Technology North Bangkok (KMUTNB or KMUT North Bangkok) is a leading technology university in Thailand. Its three campuses are in the North of Bangkok, Rayong province and Prachinburi province.\n\nFounded in 1959, under co-operation between the Royal Thai Government and the Federal Republic of Germany, KMUTNB was established as the “Thai-German Technical School”.\n\nIn 1964, the school was upgraded to “Thai-German Technical College”.\n\nIn 1971, Thai-German Technical College joined with Thonburi Technical College and Telecommunication College Nonthaburi to become the North Bangkok campus of “King Mongkut’s Institute of Technology”.\n\nIn 1986, King Mongkut’s Institute of Technology separated into three autonomous universities:\n\nIn 1995, KMUTNB acquired land in Prachinburi Province to establish a new campus, “KMUTNB Prachinburi.”\n\nKing Mongkut's University of Technology North Bangkok is on 1518 Pibulsongkram Road, Bangsue, Bangkok 10800. The total area is 13.35 hectares with 13 academic buildings, 5 workshops and 9 others.\nKing Mongkut's University of Technology North Bangkok Prachinburi is located at 129 Moo 6, Tambon Noenhom, Amphoe Mueang, Prachinburi 25230. The total area is 197.41 hectares.\nKing Monngkut's University of Technology will establish its 3 campus in Rayong Province. The campus will be constructed at the Ban Khai District which is about 150 kilometers from the Map Ta Phut deep seaport in Rayong.\n\nBangkok :\n\nPrachinburi :\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34300445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34300445", "title": "Learning commons", "text": "Learning commons\n\nLearning commons, also known as scholars' commons, information commons or digital commons, are learning spaces, similar to libraries and classrooms that share space for information technology, remote or online education, tutoring, collaboration, content creation, meetings and reading or study. Learning commons are increasingly popular in academic and research libraries, and some public and school libraries have now adopted the model. Architecture, furnishings and physical organization are particularly important to the character of a learning commons, as spaces are often designed to be rearranged by users according to their needs.\n\nLearning commons may also have tools, equipment, makerspaces, and/or publishing services available for borrowing or use. Along with the so-called \"bookstore model,\" which is focused on customer service, bookless or digital libraries, the learning commons or digital commons is frequently cited as a model for the \"library of the future.\"\n\nLearning Commons have developed across the United States and other countries in academic libraries since the early 1990s, when they were more frequently called Information Commons. Two early examples were the Information Arcade at the University of Iowa (1992) and the Information Commons at the University of Southern California (1994). By 1999, Donald Beagle had noted its emergence as \"...a new model for service delivery in academic libraries,\" and proposed that the model could be characterized by offering \"a continuum of service\" from information retrieval to original knowledge creation. This approach, often called \"one-stop shopping,\" could be facilitated, Beagle suggested, though the application of strategic alignment, a management approach adapted from IT enterprise planning. Increased use of the term Learning Commons had become apparent by 2004, when the University of Southern California hosted a national conference titled \"Information Commons: Learning Space Beyond the Classroom.\" Beagle's white paper for this conference proposed a developmental pathway \"From Information Commons to Learning Commons,\" based on a typology of change adapted from research by the American Council on Education. This white paper defined an Information Commons as a library-centric \"...cluster of network access points and associated IT tools situated in the context of physical, digital, human, and social resources organized in support of learning.” A Learning Commons, by contrast, was no longer library-centric, as “…when the resources of the information commons are organized in collaboration with learning initiatives sponsored by other academic units, or aligned with learning outcomes defined through a cooperative process.” These definitions were later adopted and elaborated upon by Scott Bennett, Yale University Librarian Emeritus. Since the late 1990s, hundreds of Learning Commons have developed and morphed in response to Web 2.0 technologies and the continuous evolution of libraries and librarians’ functions. Web 2.0 technologies such as blogs, social networking sites, video sharing sites and web apps, have radically impacted the way that information is exchanged and engaged in. A learning commons takes these technologies into consideration and then adapts to provide the best possible services to the new 2.0 users and students. A driving force for the institution to place various services in the library are caused by two major reasons. The first reason is the reduction of space used to house print materials which are of little use to students and faculty compared to digital resources rapidly accessible through internet based services. The second reason for learning commons advances is the prime location on campus that most libraries have managed to secure. The library often frees up space through weeding of the print collections. A synergistic service can develop in support of students with other service departments.\n\nStudents appear to have natural abilities to use emerging technology. But\nthe reality is, while students easily grasp the entertainment and\ncommunication value of the devices they use, they need to be taught how\nthese tools can be used in learning and critical thought. This is a task for\nthe Learning Commons.\n\nThere is growing consensus among educators that students need to learn\ntransferable skills in order to work efficiently and successfully in our future\nworld.\n\nTo achieve this, students will need to become critical consumers of\ninformation, effective problem solvers, capable decision makers and\ninnovative communicators as well. They will require the skills and ability to\nflow with change. And most of all, students will need to understand that\nthese transferable skills give them the capacity to make a difference in this\nworld… personally.\n\nA Learning Commons provides boundless opportunity for growth. It is\nbased on a cross-curricular perspective that recognizes literacy, numeracy,\nknowledge, thinking, communication, and application as foundations for\nlearning how to learn.\n\nA Learning Commons becomes the physical and virtual catalyst where\ninquiry, imagination, discovery, and creativity come alive and become\ncentral to growth — personal, academic, social and cultural.\n\nAn effective Learning Commons will accommodate all learners and address multiple learning styles and learning levels.\nIn working together, teacher-librarians in partnership with others can modify the process, content, product and environment to meet the needs of a diverse student population. The result will be empowered learners. The learning commons model creates an ideal environment for the teacher librarian to utilize teaching methods that allow for both formal and informal learning to take place.\n\nA learning commons allows for academic libraries to provide wider ranging and more cohesive services to students and users. Meshing numerous services maintains the traditional reference and research elements of the classic library while adding exciting new services that support new technologies and service in a larger and more integrated environment. The learning commons reflects a marked shift in our conception of the library, a shift that is driven by our evolving understanding of the library’s role in supporting student learning. The emergence of the learning commons as a central element in contemporary library design offers an opportunity to transform the library’s role on campus from a provider of information to a facilitator of learning.\n\nOften, libraries and learning commons share responsibility for delivering college-wide outcomes: developing effective research strategies, finding and evaluating the appropriateness of resource materials for a particular topic, honing effective oral and written communication skills, and promoting good study and learning habits. The goal of a Learning Commons Librarians’ work should be to encourage all students to engage in substantive ways with multiple services in the organization. Properly implemented in an academic library, this model of library service benefits all parts of the institution. A cohesiveness and purpose among the diverse elements of the library allows both the library and the school to run more smoothly and efficiently and students’ needs are met in an environment that is designed to provide multiple services in a single location.\n\nThe Digital Divide is a very real problem in academic libraries currently and will remain so for the foreseeable future. This can be a problem in a highly technological library model but when the learning commons work efficiently, the needs of these students are provided for through library orientations, research/reference classes, technology courses, one-on-one assistance, effective and in-library peer assistance. These services should be developed online as well as in person for the maximum benefit of the student user and the school.\n\nNew or renovated library space is now commonly repurposed to bring students together to work, study, and socialize. The learning commons typically offer comfortable furniture for both individual and group study, modular furnishings that allow users to customize the environment to suit their needs, access to wireless networks and electrical outlets, multimedia labs and support, and often a cafe accompanied by relaxed food and drink restrictions. The Learning Commons seeks to expand and integrate the real and virtual choices learners have to share their experiences. Safe, inclusive and\nwelcoming environments throughout a school are imperative to meet the diverse abilities and learning styles of individuals, teams and groups. Virtual learning spaces increase this potential.\n\nThrough the process of inquiry, individuals construct much of their understanding of the natural and human-designed worlds. Inquiry implies a \"need or want to know\" premise. Inquiry is not so much seeking the right answer—because often there is none—but rather seeking appropriate resolutions to questions and issues. For educators, inquiry implies emphasis on the development of inquiry skills and the nurturing of inquiring attitudes or habits of mind that will enable individuals to continue the quest for knowledge throughout life.\n\nThe challenge is discovering how to reconfigure our current spaces both inside and beyond a school and a school library’s walls to reflect this new reality. Access to the technology that makes it possible, obviously, is critical\n\nThe school library, a key component of a Learning Commons, has an\nintegral and transformative role to play in implementing this fresh and\ninnovative vision for education.\n\nEvery member of a school’s population will ultimately participate in the\ncreation of a Learning Commons, but the concept’s early coordination and\nleadership will rest with school library expertise.\n\nWhere properly developed, a school’s library is already the hub for\nnetworking and information access. As the Learning Commons’ concept\ngrows, a school library’s collection-based facilities will continuously change\nand expand, creating access-based services suited to a school community’s\nneeds.\n\nThis process will mean changes in the operations of a school’s library.\nResource collections will need to be reshaped even more rapidly and readily\nthan they are currently to reflect their communities as well as the world at\nlarge. It is the only way a library’s access to the global, interconnected and\ninteractive communication networks of the future.\n\nfrom library to learning commons: a metamorphosis\n"}
{"id": "2809154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2809154", "title": "Liberal education", "text": "Liberal education\n\nA liberal education is a system or course of education suitable for the cultivation of a free (Latin: \"liber\") human being. It is based on the medieval concept of the liberal arts or, more commonly now, the liberalism of the Age of Enlightenment. It has been described as \"a philosophy of education that empowers individuals with broad knowledge and transferable skills, and a stronger sense of values, ethics, and civic engagement ... characterised by challenging encounters with important issues, and more a way of studying than a specific course or field of study\" by the Association of American Colleges and Universities. Usually global and pluralistic in scope, it can include a general education curriculum which provides broad exposure to multiple disciplines and learning strategies in addition to in-depth study in at least one academic area.\n\nLiberal education was advocated in the 19th century by thinkers such as John Henry Newman, Thomas Huxley, and F. D. Maurice.\nSir Wilfred Griffin Eady defined liberal education as being education for its own sake and personal enrichment, with the teaching of values.\n\nThe decline of liberal education is often attributed to mobilization during the Second World War. The premium and emphasis placed upon mathematics, science, and technical training caused the loss of its prominent position in higher education studies. However, it became central to much undergraduate education in the United States in the mid-20th century, being conspicuous in the movement for 'general education'.\n\nThe American Association for the Advancement of Science describes a liberal education in this way: \"Ideally, a liberal education produces persons who are open-minded and free from provincialism, dogma, preconception, and ideology; conscious of their opinions and judgments; reflective of their actions; and aware of their place in the social and natural worlds.\" Liberally educated people are skeptical of their own traditions; they are trained to think for themselves rather than conform to higher authorities.\n\nIt also cultivates \"active citizenship\" through off-campus community service, internships, research, and study abroad. Some faculty see this movement towards \"civic engagement\" as more pedagogically powerful than traditional classroom teaching, but opponents argue that the education occurring within an academic institution must be purely intellectual and scholarly.\n\nA liberal education combines an education in the classics, English literature, the humanities, and moral virtues. The term \"liberal education\" in the modern sense should not be confused with \"liberal arts education\"; the latter deals with academic subjects, while the former deals with ideological subjects. Indeed, a liberal arts education does not necessarily include a liberal education, and a liberal arts program may even be as specialized as a vocational program. For practical purposes, liberal education is not actually differentiated from liberal arts education today, except by scholars.\n\nUnlike a professional and vocational education that prepares students for their careers, a liberal education prepares students to utilize their leisure time. Such an education helps the individual navigate internal and external conflicts in life. For example, a liberal education aims to help students be self-conscious and aware of their actions and motivations. Individuals also become more considerate for other beliefs and cultures. According to James Engel, the author of \"The Value of a Liberal Arts Education\", \"A liberal education provides the framework for an educated and thoughtful citizen.\"\n\nDefinitions of a liberal education may be broad, generalized, and sometimes even contradictory. \"It is at once the most enduring and changeable of academic traditions.\" Axelrod, Anisef, and Lin suggest that conceptions of liberal education are rooted in the teaching methods of Ancient Greece, a slave-owning community divided between slaves and freemen. The freemen, mostly concerned about their rights and obligations as citizens, received a non-specialized, non-vocational, liberal arts education that produced well-rounded citizens aware of their place in society. At the same time, Socrates emphasized the importance of individualism, impressing upon his students the duty of man to form his own opinions through reason rather than indoctrination. Athenian education also provided a balance between developing the mind and the body. Another possibility is that liberal education dates back to the Zhou Dynasty, where the teachings of Confucianism focused on propriety, morality, and social order. Hoerner also suggests that Jesus was a liberal educator, as \"he was talking of a free man capable of thinking for himself and of being a responsible citizen,\" but liberal education is still commonly traced back to the Greeks.\n\nWhile liberal education was stifled during the barbarism of the Early Middle Ages, it rose to prominence once again in the eleventh and twelfth centuries, especially with the re-emergence of Aristotelian philosophy. The thirteenth and fourteenth centuries saw a revolt against narrow spirituality and educators started to focus on the human, rather than God. This humanist approach favored reason, nature and aesthetics.\n\nStudy of the Classics and humanities slowly returned in the fourteenth century, which led to increased study of both Ancient Greek and Latin. In the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, liberal education focused mostly on the classics. Commoners, however, were not too keen on studying the classics, so they instead took up vernacular languages and literature, and also the sciences. Until at least the twentieth century, both humanist and classicist influences remained in the liberal education, and proponents of a progressive education also embraced the humanist philosophy. Study of the classics continued in the form of the Great Books program. Robert Maynard Hutchins brought this program to the University of Chicago. Upon Hutchins' resignation, the university got rid of the program, but an adapted version still exists at Shimer College.\n\nWhile liberal education is a Western movement, it has been influential in other regions as well. For example, in Japan during the general liberalism of the Taishō period, there was a liberal education movement that saw the establishment of a number of schools based on liberal education in the 1920s – see .\n\nLiberal education and professional education have often been seen as divergent. German universities moved towards more professional teaching in the nineteenth century, and unlike American students, who still pursued a liberal education, students elsewhere started to take professional courses in the first or second year of study. In the early twentieth century, American liberal arts colleges still required students to pursue a common curriculum, whereas public universities allowed a student to move on to more pragmatic courses after having taken general education courses for the first two years of study. As an emphasis on specialized knowledge grew in the middle of the century, colleges began to adjust the proportion of required general education courses to those required for a particular major.\n\nAs University of Chicago professor Martha Nussbaum points out, standardized testing has placed more emphasis on honing technical knowledge, and its quantitative, multiple-choice nature prompts rote learning in the classroom. At the same time, humanistic concepts such as imagination and critical thinking, which cannot be tested by such methods, are disappearing from college curricula.\n\nThirty percent of college graduates in the United States are likely to eventually work in jobs that do not exist yet. Proponents of a liberal education therefore argue that a postsecondary education must prepare students for an increasingly complex labor market. Rather than provide narrowly designed technical courses, a liberal education would foster critical thinking and analytical skills that allow the student to adapt to a rapidly changing workforce. The movement towards career-oriented courses within a liberal education has begun at places like Dartmouth College, where a journalism course combines lessons on writing style with reading and analyzing historical journalism. An American survey of CEOs published in 1997 revealed that employers were more focused on the long-term outcomes of education, such as adaptability, than college students and their parents, who were more concerned with the short-term outcomes of getting a job.\n\nRonel B. Esquivel said only eight percent of colleges provide a liberal education to four percent of students in the United States. Liberal education revived three times in the United States during periods of industrialization and shifts of social preoccupations—before World War I, after World War II, and in the late 1970s—perhaps as a reaction against overspecialization in undergraduate curricula.\n\nCurrently, pressures from employers, parents and governments have defined the type of education offered at educational institutions. Such trends have curtailed the role of education offered in America. Universities have now provided education for the sole purpose to prepare students for the workforce. This idea has negatively influenced the credibility of liberal education which has impacted how students view higher education. The negative impact being a focus on specific disciplinary practices separating it from the original ideology of liberal education as a \"...a philosophy of education that empowers individuals with broad knowledge and transferable skills, and a stronger sense of values, ethics, and civic engagement ...\" Politicians have influenced the type of education provided at universities. These politicians have been recently cutting the funds for universities applying immense pressure on higher educational institutions. Lack of funds have caused many to abandon the liberal arts curricula. Therefore, universities have been forced to provide a curriculum useful for providing a vocational education. The lack of funds to maintain a balanced education system has caused American universities to provide an education with a lack of emphasis on liberal values.\n\nThe disappearance of liberal education can also be traced to Liberal Art Colleges. Students are beginning to view higher education as a preparation for careers. This has then led to the natural selection of colleges. Obviously, the thought of having education that instructs to enhance the individual for the purpose of improving society does not meet current demands. Thus, as a result, Liberal Art Colleges are diminishing along with the emphasis on providing a liberal education. .\n\nChinese universities began to implement liberal curricula between the 1920s and 1940s, but shifted to specialized education upon the establishment of the People's Republic of China in 1949. Higher education reform in the 1990s returned to liberal education. In 2000 Peking University started to offer a liberal education curriculum to its undergraduate students, followed by other institutions throughout the country.\n\nSome of the universities in India have started offering Liberal Arts Education. Ahmedabad University is one such young university which offers students a liberal education focused on research and interdisciplinary learning.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6261407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6261407", "title": "Louis-Philippe Pelletier", "text": "Louis-Philippe Pelletier\n\nLouis-Philippe Pelletier, (February 1, 1857 – February 8, 1921) was a Canadian lawyer, journalist, newspaper owner, politician, professor, and judge.\n\nBorn in Trois-Pistoles, Lower Canada, the son of Thomas-Philippe Pelletier and Caroline Casault, the sister of Louis-Napoléon Casault, Pelletier was educated at the Collège de Sainte-Anne-de-la-Pocatière and received a law degree from the Université Laval. He articled with Auguste-Réal Angers and was called to the Quebec bar in 1880.\n\nAfter being defeated in the 1908 federal election, he was elected to the House of Commons of Canada for the riding of Quebec County in the 1911 election. A Conservative, he was the Postmaster General from 1911 to 1914. He resigned in October 1914 and was appointed a Superior Court judge for the district of Montreal. In August 1915 he was appointed to the Quebec Court of King’s Bench.\n\nPrior to his entry to federal politics, Pelletier was also a member of the Legislative Assembly of Quebec after being elected in Dorchester as a Conservative in 1888 and retained his seat until 1904 when he did not seek another re-election. He attempted a return in 1908 but was defeated.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "4205075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4205075", "title": "Mac Van Valkenburg", "text": "Mac Van Valkenburg\n\nMac Elwyn Van Valkenburg (October 5, 1921 – March 19, 1997) was an American electrical engineer and university professor. He wrote seven textbooks and numerous scientific publications.\n\nVan Valkenburg was born in Utah. He graduated from the University of Utah in 1943 with a Bachelor's degree in electrical engineering, received a master's degree in electrical engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1946, and a PhD in electrical engineering from Stanford University in 1952, under advisor Oswald Garrison Villard, Jr..\n\nVan Valkenburg was a professor at the University of Illinois from 1955-1966, then joined Princeton University as professor and head of electrical engineering until 1974. He then returned to UIUC. Named to the W. W. Grainger Professorship endowed chair in 1982, and became Dean of the College of Engineering in 1984.\n\nVan Valkenburg was author of seven textbooks and numerous scientific publications. He died in Orem, Utah at the age of 75.\n\n\nThe IEEE Education Society offers an annual Mac Van Valkenburg Early Career Teaching Award. UIUC established the M. E. Van Valkenburg Graduate Research Award in 1990.\n\nHis Ph.D. students have included:\n\n"}
{"id": "1122717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1122717", "title": "Mani Kaul", "text": "Mani Kaul\n\nMani Kaul (25 December 1944 – 6 July 2011) was an Indian director of Hindi films and a figure in Indian parallel cinema. He graduated from the Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) where he was a student of Ritwik Ghatak and later became a teacher. Starting his career with \"Uski Roti\" (1969), which won him the Filmfare Critics Award for Best Movie, he went on to win four of them in all. He won the National Film Award for Best Direction in 1974 for \"Duvidha\" and later the National Film Award for his documentary film, \"Siddheshwari\" in 1989.\n\nBorn Rabindranath Kaul, in Jodhpur, Rajasthan, in a Kashmiri Pandit family, Kaul first joined FTII, Pune as an acting student and later shifted to the direction course, where noted film director Ritwik Ghatak was a teacher, graduating in 1966.\n\nHe was the nephew of actor-director Mahesh Kaul, who made films like Raj Kapoor starrer \"Sapno Ka Saudagar\" (1968).\n\nHis first film \"Uski Roti\" (1969) has been described as \"one of the key films of the New Indian Cinema or the Indian New Wave\". It marked a drastic departure from earlier Indian cinema technique, form and narrative. It was one of the early formal experimental films in Indian cinema.\n\n\"Ashadh Ka Ek Din\" (1971), his next film, was based on a play by Mohan Rakesh.\n\n\"Duvidha\", his third film, was his first in colour. It grew out of a short story by Vijaydan Detha and tells the story of a merchant's son, who returns with his new bride. When he departs on a business trip, a ghost falls in love with the wife. It was widely shown across Europe. He was awarded the prestigious Jawaharlal Nehru Fellowship in 1974.\nKaul was one of the co-founders of the Yukt Film Co-operative (Union of Kinematograph Technicians) in 1976, leading to avant-garde films. Critics opined in \"Mani Kaul's cinematic conception, fiction and documentary films have no clear demarcated dividing line.\" He also taught music in the Netherlands, and was Creative Director of the film house at Osian's Connoisseurs of Art, Mumbai.\n\nIn 1971, he was a member of the jury at the 21st Berlin International Film Festival.\n\nHe was a visiting lecturer at Harvard University for the 2000–2001 school year.\n\nMani Kaul died on 6 July 2011 at his home in Gurgaon, near Delhi, after prolonged battle with cancer. He is survived by two sons and two daughters.\n\nAccording to a tribute from Prabha Mahajan on the Indian documentary film discussion network Docuwallahs2 , Mani Kaul's significant body of work included both feature films and documentaries. In an interview Mani stated: \"The dividing line from my films and documentaries is thin. Some of my films like \"Siddheshwari\" are like poetic documentaries.\" Mani Kaul's fellow alumni from FTII intend to put together a collective tribute to Mani Kaul and his work, and interested persons were invited to send in their thoughts on Mani as a film maker, teacher/ mentor, colleague, and as a person.\n\nIndian film critic Khalid Mohamed commented, \"As a film director, he discussed the status of women (\"Uski Roti\", \"Duvidha\"), crafted visually seductive documentaries (\"Arrival\", \"Before My Eyes\", \"A Desert of a Thousand Lines\") and went through a spell of interpreting Fyodor Dostoevsky’s masterworks. The Russian writer’s short story \"A Gentle Creature\" inspired \"Nazar\", shot in low, chiaroscuro lighting.\"\n\n\n\nMani Kaul won Filmfare Critics Award for Best Movie four times.\n\n\nHis film Idiot, which was released as a four-part TV series on Doordarshan in 1991, will be screened at the upcoming 18th edition of the Mumbai Film Festival that will take place from 20 to 27 October 2016, with the title 'Ahamaq'.\n\n"}
{"id": "24431162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24431162", "title": "Microtraining", "text": "Microtraining\n\nThe Microtraining method is an approach aimed at supporting informal learning processes in organizations and companies. Learning in this sense means that an active process of knowledge creation is taking place within social interactions, but outside of formal learning environments or training facilities. This process can be facilitated by well-designed and structured systems and by supporting ways of communication and collaboration, like the Microtraining method does. A Microtraining arrangement comprises a time span of 15–20 minutes for each learning session, which can activate and maintain learning processes for a longer period if bundled into series. A Microtraining session can be held face-to-face, online or embedded in an e-learning scenario.\n\nThe Microtraining method can be applied to learning situations within organizations and companies, especially when basic knowledge needs to be refreshed or improved and when information is needed for immediate use in daily practice. In comparison to formal learning, Microtraining is an approach aimed at structuring informal learning activities. While formal learning may be a successful approach for people with less knowledge and skills [Tynjälä, 2008], it can be counter-productive for more experienced employees [Jonassen et al., 1993] for whom informal blended learning approaches like Microtraining appear to be working very well [Jonassen/Mayes/McAleese, 1993; Jonassen, 1997].\n\nWith regard to organizational requirements, facilitating the new learning concept by management and accompanying the initial phase of implementing the Microtraining method are crucial for its success. Consequently, the Microtraining method is not meant to be an approach to designing learning materials alone, but involves analyzing learning processes in organizations and supporting change management of learning strategies as a whole. If, for example, employees have insufficient access to a computer or web services supporting online learning activities that are part of the Microtraining approach or if they are not allowed to spend working time learning, any effort to design the best material and collaborative surroundings will fail.\n\nThe Microtraining method is based on several current learning theories and concepts, one of the most important of which is the theory of Social Constructivism, which sees learning as an active process, taking into account the learner's individual background [Vygotsky, 1978]. The second crucial idea comes from the concept of connectivism, which states that learning is not an internal, solitary process, but that new knowledge is acquired best while working and learning in a lively community [Siemens, 2005].\n\nMicrotraining sessions are structured as follows:\n\n1 Active start (3 minutes)\n\n2 Exercise / Demonstration (6 minutes)\n\n3 Feedback/ Discussion (4 minutes)\n\n4 Conclusion: What's next? How do we learn more? (2 minutes)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6908619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6908619", "title": "Museum of Comparative Zoology", "text": "Museum of Comparative Zoology\n\nThe Museum of Comparative Zoology, full name \"The Louis Agassiz Museum of Comparative Zoology\", often abbreviated simply to \"MCZ\", is the zoology museum located on the grounds of Harvard University in Cambridge, Massachusetts. It is one of three natural history research museums at Harvard whose public face is the Harvard Museum of Natural History. Harvard MCZ's collections consist of some 21 million specimens, of which several thousand are on rotating display at the public museum. The current director of the Museum of Comparative Zoology is James Hanken, the Louis Agassiz Professor of Zoology at Harvard University.\n\nMany of the exhibits in the public museum have not only zoological interest but also historical significance. Past exhibits have included a fossil sand dollar which was found by Charles Darwin in 1834, Captain Cook's mamo, and two pheasants that once belonged to George Washington, now on loan to Mount Vernon in Virginia.\n\nThe Harvard Museum of Natural History is physically connected to the Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology; for visitors, one admission ticket grants access to both museums. The research collections of the Museum of Comparative Zoology are not open to the public.\n\nThe Museum of Comparative Zoology was founded in 1859 through the efforts of zoologist Louis Agassiz, and the museum used to be referred to as \"The Agassiz\" after its founder. Agassiz designed the collection to illustrate the variety and comparative relationships of animal life.\n\nThe Radcliffe Zoological Laboratory was created in 1894 when Radcliffe College rented a space on the fifth floor of the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard University to convert into a women's laboratory. Prior to this acquisition, Radcliffe science laboratories were taught using inadequate facilities, converting spaces such as bathrooms in old houses into physics laboratories, which Harvard professors often refused to teach in.The laboratory space was converted from an office or storage closet, and was sandwiched between other invertebrate storage rooms on the fifth floor.\n\nThe museum comprises twelve departments: Biological Oceanography, Entomology, Herpetology, Ichthyology, Invertebrate Paleontology, Invertebrate Zoology, Mammalogy, Marine invertebrates, Malacology, Ornithology, Population Genetics, and Vertebrate Paleontology. The Ernst Mayr Library and its archives join in supporting the work of the museum. The Ernst Mayr Library is a founding member of the Biodiversity Heritage Library.\n\nThe museum publishes two journals: the \"Bulletin of the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard College\", first published in 1869, and \"Breviora\", first published in 1956.\n\nIn contrast to numerous more modern museums, the Harvard Museum of Natural History has many hundreds of stuffed animals on display, from the collections of the Museum of Comparative Zoology. Notable exhibits include whale skeletons, the largest turtle shell ever found (eight feet long), \"the Harvard mastodon\", a long \"Kronosaurus\" skeleton, the skeleton of a dodo, and a coelacanth preserved in fluid. The two-story Great Mammal Hall was renovated in 2009 in celebration of the 150th anniversary of founding of the Museum of Comparative Zoology.\n\nNew and changing exhibitions in the Harvard Museum of Natural History include \"Evolution\" (2008); \"The Language of Color\" (2008 to 2013); \"Arthropods: Creatures that Rule\" (2006); \"New England Forests\" (2011); and \"Mollusks: Shelled Masters of the Marine Realm\" (2012).\n\n"}
{"id": "34225971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34225971", "title": "Music Box (software)", "text": "Music Box (software)\n\nMusic Box is educational software which teaches about computer-generated music. At the 1995 BETT Educational Computing & Technology Awards, the software won \"Gold\" in the primary category.\n"}
{"id": "185753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=185753", "title": "National Foundation for Educational Research", "text": "National Foundation for Educational Research\n\nThe National Foundation for Educational Research (NFER) was founded in 1946 as a centre for educational research and development in England and Wales. NFER's head office is located at 'The Mere' in Slough, Berkshire, England. The foundation also has offices in Swansea and York.\n\nThe foundation's work includes educational research, evaluation of education and training programmes, and the development of assessments and specialist information services. The NFER also sponsors the CERUKplus (Current Educational Research in the UK) database, which contains details of current or on-going research in education and related disciplines, and hosts the EURYDICE Unit for England, Wales and Northern Ireland, in EURYDICE, the information network on education in Europe (www.nfer.ac.uk/eurydice).\n\nThe NFER founded nferNelson, which they sold to the Granada Learning/GL assessments for the 11+ and other common entrance exams Group in 2000.\n\nThere are five main departments that carry out research and a variety of other services;\n\n"}
{"id": "43357774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43357774", "title": "National Union of Ghana Students", "text": "National Union of Ghana Students\n\nNUGS,officially The National Union of Ghana Students is the largest student organization in Ghana. https://nugsonline.org.gh/about-us/ However the date of it foundation has been the subject of controversy. The official Facebook page suggests 1964, However Professor Anselmus Kludze, father of Ave Kludze, claimed that he was the National President of NUGS for the period 1962-1963. He says he was preceded by P.D. Vanderpuije of the University of Science and Technology (UST) and followed by Mr. F.Y.I. Fiagbe, also of the UST. He further claims that both he and Fiagbe, along with Antwi (the General Secretary at the time), Mr. Easmon and Mr. Kodwo Carr were all arrested and imprisoned without trial under the Preventive Detention Act.\n\nThe organisation can trace its origins to the Union of Gold Coast Students in West Africa which was founded in the 1930s. Originally the Union had as one of its aims an end to British colonial rule and the achievement independence.\n"}
{"id": "59004471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59004471", "title": "Nikita Dolgushin", "text": "Nikita Dolgushin\n\nNikita Aleksandrovich Dolgushin (; November 8, 1938, Leningrad — June 10, 2012, St. Petersburg) was a Russian Soviet ballet dancer, choreographer, teacher. She was named People's Artist of the USSR in 1988.\n\nIn 1959 he graduated from the Leningrad Choreographic School (Alexander Pushkin's course).\n\n"}
{"id": "44417053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44417053", "title": "OpenTuition", "text": "OpenTuition\n\nOpenTuition.com is an online learning site, providing free online training in accountancy and financial services. Founded by John Moffat in 2008, it is based in Riga, Latvia.\n\nOpenTuition has over 500,000 registered students both in the UK and overseas who are studying for the professional accountancy qualifications: ACCA, CIMA and AAT.\n\nOpenTuition publishes free electronic text books and streams free lectures for the following ACCA examinations: Fundamental Level: F1 Accountant in Business, F2 Management Accounting, F3 Financial Accounting, F4 Corporate and Business Law, F5 Performance Management, F6 Taxation, F7 Financial Reporting, F8 Audit and Assurance, and F9 Financial Management.\n\nThe Professional level: Compulsory exams: P1 Governance, Risk and Ethics; P2 Corporate Reporting; and P3 Business Analysis. And optional exams P4 Advanced Financial Management, P5 Advanced Performance Management, P7 Advanced Audit and Assurance.\n\nOpenTuition is a registered CIMA tuition provider, free e-books, tests and lectures are published for the CIMA Certificate in Business Accounting and CIMA Professional Qualification.\n\nOpenTuition study resources include such subjects as: financial accounting, management accounting, financial reporting, taxation, company law, audit and assurance and financial management.\n\nOpenTuition have discussion forums for all ACCA papers, OBU, CIMA, FIA, AAT and others.\n\nOpenTuition received international recognition among accountancy professionals in London, winning two prizes, the first in 2010 as the best accountancy learning site and in 2011 for the best accountancy study resource.\n"}
{"id": "4356732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4356732", "title": "Perdana Leadership Foundation", "text": "Perdana Leadership Foundation\n\nPerdana Leadership Foundation () is a foundation established to preserve, develop and spread information regarding former Prime Ministers of Malaysia. The foundation's main aim is to increase awareness of Malaysia's intellectual heritage based on its belief that past leadership can provide important resources and insights for future development.\n\nAnother of its objectives is to initiate greater understanding and co-operation between the world's cultures, religions and ways of life, while inspiring a positive change in the values of Malaysians throughout the world.\n\nEstablished in early 2003, the idea was mooted by Mathias Chang, Political Secretary to the Prime Minister and was well accepted by the government and private sectors. Thus, a special trust committee was formed with members mostly from private sector and headed by Tan Sri Datuk Seri Azizan Zainul Abidin (President, Putrajaya Corporation; President, Petronas) to materialize this idea. The Foundation was launched by Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Abdullah Ahmad Badawi on 10 May 2005. Before that, Tun Dr. Mahathir Mohamad launched the Perdana Library on 29 April 2004.\n\nObjectives of Perdana Leadership Foundation:\n\n\nThe Foundation’s broader objective is to promote global understanding by providing a channel for scholars and thinkers to undertake research and idea-sharing.\n\nIts Honorary President is the current seventh prime minister, Tun Dr Mahathir Mohamad. The foundation also has a Board of Trustees, chaired by Tan Sri Dato' Azman Hashim, whose members are prominent figures in the banking, education and property sectors. Day-to-day management is headed by Tan Sri Datuk Nik Mohamed Nik Yaacob formerly the CEO of Sime Darby Berhad.\n\nThe Foundation operates a physical and digital library, the Perdana Library which provides direct access to a wealth of information on Malaysia's past Prime Ministers. The Library collects, organises, preserves and disseminates materials by and about Malaysia's national leaders and events connected to them, and outlines the policies, strategies and initiatives they adopted. In line with the Foundation's objective of disseminating information on Malaysian leadership, these materials are digitised and are made available to the public through the Internet. To date, the Foundation has close to 10,000 items in its physical collections (including photos and audio video materials) and more than three hundred and thirty thousand records in its digital collections. Some of the Library's resources can be accessed for free via the Foundation's website while others are available only to members.\n\nThe Foundation actively digitises materials connected to the leadership history of the country. These materials include speeches, books, news clippings, magazine articles, videos and audio tapes. It collaborates with the National Archives and the National Library to digitise these institutions' holdings (with a copy handed back to the source institution) and seeks to take this initiative nationwide to centralise and digitise materials of historical import. To date, the Foundation has digitised more than three hundred thirty thousand documents, equivalent to more than eight million pages, consisting of speeches of former PMs, news clippings, journal articles, and Parliamentary Hansards. In terms of technology, the Foundation has invested in a book scanning machine, OCR software and an upgraded search engine to enable more efficient research.\n\nThe building is located at Precinct 8, Putrajaya. This building is equipped with facilities such as a Library (Perdana Library), auditorium, meeting rooms, administrative offices and a banquet hall.\n\n"}
{"id": "32071122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32071122", "title": "Platon Karsavin", "text": "Platon Karsavin\n\nPlaton Constantinovich Karsavin (; November 17, 1854, Saint Petersburg – 1922, Saint Petersburg) was a dancer with the Russian Imperial Ballet in St Petersburg, and afterwards a teacher of dance.\n\nPlaton Constantinovich Karsavin was born on 17 November 1854, at St Petersburg. His father had been a provincial actor, but had three children, and to feed his family, had become a tailor and moved to St. Petersburg. When Platon was 6 years old, his father died. The family was again left without money. Therefore, he and his brother Vladimir were placed in the Imperial Theatre School - where children lived and learned free, supported by the imperial treasury. A teacher of Platon Karsavin were Marius Petipa and Christian Johansson.\n\nAfter Theatre School (in 1875) Platon Karsavin was admitted as a dancer at the Mariinsky Theatre. There he worked from 1875 to 1891. He danced in the ballets of Arthur Saint-Léon, Marius Petipa and Lev Ivanov.\n\nAfter completing his career of ballet dancer, he became a teacher at the Imperial choreographic school. Among his pupils were Michel Fokine, Alexander Gorskiy, Adolph Bolm, Vasily Tikhomirov, Alexandr Monakhov, Alexandr Chekrygin, Alexandr Shiryayev (Cesare Pugni’grandson) etc.\n\nHe died in 1922 at St Petersburg.\n\nTheir children:\n\n"}
{"id": "5247964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5247964", "title": "Post Primary Teachers' Association", "text": "Post Primary Teachers' Association\n\nThe New Zealand Post-Primary Teachers' Association Incorporated (PPTA) is a trade union in New Zealand and professional association. It represents about 18,000 teachers employed in state and integrated secondary schools, area schools, technicraft centres and community education centres.\n\nThe PPTA is affiliated with the New Zealand Council of Trade Unions and Education International.\n\n"}
{"id": "1700591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1700591", "title": "School Mathematics Study Group", "text": "School Mathematics Study Group\n\nThe School Mathematics Study Group (SMSG) was an American academic think tank focused on the subject of reform in mathematics education. Directed by Edward G. Begle and financed by the National Science Foundation, the group was created in the wake of the Sputnik crisis in 1958 and tasked with creating and implementing mathematics curricula for primary and secondary education, which it did until its termination in 1977. The efforts of the SMSG yielded a reform in mathematics education known as New Math which was promulgated in a series of reports, culminating in a series published by Random House called the \"New Mathematical Library\". In the early years, SMSG also produced a set of draft textbooks in typewritten paperback format for elementary, middle and high school students. \n\nPerhaps the most authoritative collection of materials from the School Mathematics Study Group is now housed in the Archives of American Mathematics in the University of Texas at Austin's Center for American History.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46458548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46458548", "title": "School corporal punishment in the United States", "text": "School corporal punishment in the United States\n\nCorporal punishment, also referred to as \"physical punishment\" or \"physical discipline,\" is defined as utilizing physical force, no matter how light, to cause deliberate bodily pain or discomfort in response to some undesired behavior. In schools in the United States, this punishment often takes the form of either a teacher or school principal striking the student's buttocks with a wooden paddle (sometimes called \"spanking\").\n\nThe practice was held constitutional in the 1977 Supreme Court case \"Ingraham v. Wright\", where the Court held that the Cruel and Unusual Punishments Clause of the Eighth Amendment did not apply to disciplinary corporal punishment in public schools, being restricted to the treatment of prisoners convicted of a crime. In the years since, a number of U.S. states have banned corporal punishment in public schools, with the most recent state to outlaw public school corporal punishment being New Mexico in 2011, and the most recent de-facto statewide ban to occur in North Carolina in 2018, when the last school district in the state not to ban public school corporal punishment voted to ban. \n\nAs of October 2, 2018, corporal punishment is still legal in private schools in every U.S. state except New Jersey and Iowa, legal in public schools in 19 U.S. states, permitted in 18, and practiced in 15 U.S. states.\n\nAs of 2014, a student is hit in a U.S. public school an average of once every 30 seconds.\"\n\nCorporal punishment was widely utilized in U.S. schools during the 19th and 20th centuries as a way to motivate students to perform better academically and maintain objectively good standards of behavior. The practice was generally considered a fair and rational way to discipline school children, particularly given its parallels to the criminal justice system, and teachers in the late 19th century were encouraged to employ corporal punishment over other types of discipline. In the English-speaking world, the right of teachers to discipline children is enshrined in the common-law doctrine \"in loco parentis\" (Latin for \"in the place of parents\"), which places a legal responsibility on authority-holders to take on the functions of a parent in some instances.\n\nSome of the earliest parental opposition to corporal punishment in schools occurred in England in 1899 in the case \"Gardiner v. Bygrave\", in which a teacher in London was acquitted after a parent took him to court for assault after he physically punished their son. This case set a precedent that schools could discipline children in the way they saw fit, regardless of the wishes of the parent regarding the physical punishment of their child. Over the next century, the conception of corporal punishment as a common component of disciplining students in public schools would be challenged in various countries, but opposition to corporal punishment it schools wouldn't make it to the U.S. Supreme Court until 1977.\n\nIn 1977, the question of the legality of corporal punishment in schools was brought to the Supreme Court. At this point, only New Jersey (1867), Massachusetts (1971), Hawaii (1973), and Maine (1975) had outlawed physical punishment in public schools, and just New Jersey had also outlawed the practice in private schools. Many assumed that the Supremes would rule in favor of the plaintiffs.\n\nThe U.S. Supreme Court upheld the legality of corporal punishment in schools in the landmark Ingraham v. Wright case. The Supremes ruled 5-4 that the corporal punishment of James Ingraham, who was restrained by his assistant principal and paddled by the principal over 20 times, ultimately requiring medical attention, did not constitute the Eighth Amendment, which protects citizens from cruel and unusual punishment. They further concluded that corporal punishment did not violate the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, since teachers or administrators administering excessive punishment can face criminal charges. This case established a precedent of \"reasonable, but not excessive\" punishment of students and was criticized by some scholars as \"an apparent low point in American teacher-student relations.\"\n\nThe Ingraham v. Wright ruling firmly pushed the decision of whether or not to outlaw corporal punishment in schools squarely onto state legislators. A majority of state bans on corporal punishment have occurred in the intervening years since 1977.\n\nIndividual states have had the power to ban corporal punishment in public schools since the 19th century. Each state has the authority to define corporal punishment in its state laws, so bans on corporal punishment differ from state to state. For example, in Texas, teachers are permitted to paddle children and to use \"any other physical force\" to control children in the name of discipline; in Alabama, the rules are more explicit: teachers are permitted to use a \"wooden paddle approximately 24 inches in length, 3 inches wide and ½ inch thick.\"\n\nThe first state to abolish school corporal punishment was New Jersey in 1867. In 1894, a Newark bill challenged this ruling, arguing that whipping should be legal if parents consented to it; the New Jersey House defeated that bill, with one doctor's testimonial asserting that the bill's provisions \"would expose children who did not have thoughtful and careful parents to the cruel discrimination of the teachers.\" The second state to ban corporal punishment in schools was Massachusetts, 104 years later in 1971. As of 2015, corporal punishment is banned in state schools (known as \"public schools\" in the U.S.) in 31 U.S. states and the District of Columbia (see list below). The usage of corporal punishment in private schools is legally permitted in nearly every state, though extremely uncommon in most, with only New Jersey and Iowa prohibiting it in both public and private schools. Corporal punishment is still used in schools to a significant (though declining) extent in some public schools in Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, Oklahoma, Tennessee, North Carolina and Texas. The most recent state to outlaw school corporal punishment was New Mexico in 2011.\n\nThe majority of students who experience corporal punishment reside in the Southern United States; Department of Education data from 2011–2012 show that 70 percent of students subjected to corporal punishment were from the five states of Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Mississippi, and Texas, with the latter two states accounting for 35 percent of corporal punishment cases.\n\nStudents can be physically punished from kindergarten to the end of high school, meaning that even legal adults who have reached the age of majority are sometimes spanked by school officials. However, a majority of states that permit corporal punishment require that parental consent be given before children may be paddled. In these states, parents are sometimes (but not always) given the option of physical punishment of their child instead of alternate disciplinary measures, like suspension.\n\nList includes states where bans are imposed by every school district in the state rather than state law itself.\n\n\n\nThe prevalence of school corporal punishment has decreased since the 1970s, declining from 4 percent of the total number of children in schools in 1978 to less than 1 percent in 2014. This reduction is partially explained by the increasing number of states banning corporal punishment from public schools between 1974 and 1994.\n\nThe number of instances of corporal punishment in U.S. schools have also declined in recent years. In the 2002-2003 school year, federal statistics estimated that 300,000 children were disciplined with corporal punishment at school at least once. In the 2006-2007 school year, this number was reduced to 223,190 instances. According to the Department of Education, over 166,000 students in public schools were physically punished during the 2011–2012 school year. In the 2013-2014 academic year, this number was reduced to 109,000 students.\n\nAs of the 2011-2012 academic year, 19 states legally allowed school corporal punishment. Approximately 14 percent of the schools in those 19 states reported the use of corporal punishment, and 1 in 8 students attended schools that use this practice.\n\nSeveral studies have explored which behaviors elicit corporal punishment as a response, but so far there is not a cohesive and standardized system use within states or across states. The Human Rights Watch conducted a series of interviews with paddled students and teachers in Mississippi and Texas and found that most of school corporal punishment was for minor infractions, such as violating the dress code, being tardy, talking in class, running in the hallway and going to the bathroom without permission. A review of over 6,000 disciplinary files in Florida for 1987-1988 school year found that corporal punishment use in schools was not related to the severity of student's misbehavior or with the frequency of the infraction. Czumbil and Hyman reviewed over 500 media stories about corporal punishment in newspapers from 1975 to 1992 and coded the reason of the punishment and its severity. They found that the nature of the child's misbehavior (violent or non-violent) did not meaningfully influence whether the student was physically punished or not.\n\nMany studies have found that there are extreme disparities in the physical punishment of students across racial and ethnic lines, gender and disability status. In general, results suggest that boys, children of color and children with disabilities are most likely to be targets of corporal punishment. These disparities may violate three federal laws that prohibit discrimination by race, gender and disability status: Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973.\n\nAt the turn of the 20th century, both boys and girls received roughly equal levels of corporal punishments in U.S. schools, but girls were more likely to report their punishment as 'unjust' or 'unfair.' However, while punishment was seen as a builder of masculinity for boys, girls were not expected to experience the same benefits, so their punishment was often, but not always, more lenient. This trend in gender parity changed significantly in the next century.\n\nToday, boys are more likely than girls to be physically punished in schools, and this disparity has persisted for decades. In 1992, boys accounted for 81 percent of all incidents of physical discipline in schools. By 2012, the majority of school districts within states that legally allow corporal punishment registered a ratio of 3:1 or higher, indicating that boys are 3 times more likely than girls to experience corporal punishment. Differences in behavior (and perceived behavior) can explain a fraction of this imbalance, but does not account for the entire discrepancy between the genders. Boys have been found to be two times as likely as girls to be disciplined for misbehavior in school, but they are four times as likely to be disciplined using corporal punishment.\n\nWhen race and gender are considered together, black boys are 16 times as likely to be subject of corporal punishment as white girls. Among children with disabilities, black boys have the highest probability of being subject to corporal punishment, followed by white boys, black girls and white girls. While black boys are 1.8 times as likely as white boys to be physically punished, black girls are 3 times more likely than white girls.\n\nThe race and ethnic disparities in school corporal punishment have decreased within groups over time, but the relative prevalence of corporal punishment between groups has remained stable. Black students are physically punished at higher rates than white or Hispanics. In contrast, Hispanic students are less likely than white students to receive corporal punishment. One study found that African-American students were more likely than either white or Hispanic students to be physically punished, by 2.5 times and 6.5 times respectively. Another study calculated the proportion of Black students who were physically punished to the proportion of white students who were by state, and found that for the 2011-2012 academic year, black children in Alabama and Mississippi were over 5 times more likely to be disciplined with corporal punishment than their white counterparts. In other southeastern states -Florida, Arkansas, Georgia, Louisiana and Tennessee- black children were more than 3 times more likely to receive corporal punishment than white children.\n\nA review of over 4,000 discipline events in Florida from 1987-1989 across nine schools revealed that, although Black students constituted 22 percent of school enrollment, they accounted for over 50 percent of all cases of corporal punishment. The North Carolina Department of Public Instruction in 2013 published a review of corporal punishment cases in the 2011-2012 academic year founding that corporal punishment was disproportionately applied to Native American students, who represented 58 percent of all cases of corporal punishment while being only 2 percent of the student population.\n\nThe disparity by race in the use of corporal punishment in schools goes in line with findings of other methods of discipline, where Black children are 2 to 3 times more likely than white children to be suspended or expelled from schools. According to a study by the American Psychological Association, these imbalances are not due to a higher likelihood of misbehaving by children of one race over another, or the socio-economic status of the children.\n\nChildren with physical, mental, or emotional disabilities are afforded special protections and services in U.S. public schools. However, they are not afforded protection from school corporal punishment in the states that allow it, and in many states they are actually at greater risk for receiving corporal punishment than their non-disabled peers. According to a report jointly authored by Human Rights Watch and the American Civil Liberties Union, the United States Department of Education's Civil Rights Data Collection for 2006 shows that students with disabilities are subjected to corporal punishment at disproportionately high rates for their share of the population. Representative Carolyn McCarthy remarked in a 2010 congressional hearing that students with disabilities are subjected to corporal punishment at \"approximately twice the rate of the general student population in some States.\"\n\nChildren with disabilities are 50 percent more likely to experience school corporal punishment in more than 30% of the school districts in Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi and Tennessee. However, in some school districts among Alabama, Mississippi and Tennessee, children with disability status are 5 times more likely to be subject of corporal punishment than peers without disabilities.\n\nAlthough there is literature on the effects of parental use of corporal punishment on health and school performance, corporal punishment in schools has been understudied. There are correlational studies that linked the use of corporal punishment in schools with detrimental physical and psychological effects on children, and also provide evidence about its long-term effects.\n\nAccording to these studies, children exposed to school corporal punishment are more likely to have less conduct disorder problems, to experience feelings less of inadequacy and resentment, to be less aggressive and violent, and to less experience reduced problem-solving abilities, social competence and academic achievement. Other studies have suggested that corporal punishment in schools can deter children's cognitive development, as children subject to corporal punishment in schools have a more restricted vocabulary, poorer school marks, and lower IQ scores. Moreover, disparities in the use of corporal punishment among gender, race and disability status can be perceived by children as discrimination. This perceived discrimination has been related with lower self-esteem, lower positive mood, higher depression and anxiety. These effects can also manifest as low academic engagement and more negative school behaviors, which exacerbate the existing gap in discipline policies along race and gender lines.\n\nResearchers have found a negative correlation between legality of corporal punishment and test scores. Students who are not exposed to school corporal punishment exhibit better results on the ACT test compared to students in states that allow disciplinary corporal punishment in schools. In 2010, 75 percent of states that allow corporal punishment in schools scored below average on the ACT composite, while three-quarters of non-paddling states scored above the national average. Improvement trend among the years also differ, in the last 18 years 66 percent non-paddling states have above average rates of improvement, while 50 percent of spanking states were above the national trend of improvement.\n\nFurthermore, while corporal punishment is sometimes lauded as an alternative to suspension, the lack of formal training for U.S. teachers means that there is no consistently implemented style of corporal punishment that takes into account the size, age, or psychological profile of students. This leaves students more vulnerable to physical and psychological injury.\n\nIn November 2018 the American Academy of Pediatrics has issued a new policy statement taking a stronger stance against corporal punishment, including spanking, 20 years after releasing its last position statement on effective discipline.\n\nThe AAP mentioned in particular the risks on mental health issues and anger management problems, in children and teens who received corporal punishments in school. \n\nPublic-opinion research has found that most Americans are not in favor of school corporal punishment; in polls taken in 2002 and 2005, American adults were respectively 72% and 77% opposed to the use of corporal punishment by teachers. Moreover, a national survey conducted on teachers ranked corporal punishment as the lowest effective method to discipline offenders among eight possible techniques.\n\nA bill to end the use of corporal punishment in schools was introduced into the United States House of Representatives in June 2010 during the 111th Congress. The bill, H.R. 5628, was referred to the United States House Committee on Education and Labor where it was not brought up for a vote. A previous bill \"to deny funds to educational programs that allow corporal punishment\" was introduced into the U.S. House of Representatives in 1991 by Representative Major Owens. That bill, H.R. 1522, did not become law. A new bill, the Ending Corporal Punishment in Schools Act of 2015 (HR 2268) would prohibit all corporal punishment, defined as \"paddling, spanking, or other forms of physical punishment, however light, imposed upon a student\", the petition was closed. In 2017, Ending Corporal Punishment in Schools Act of 2017 was introduced, and was referred to the House Committee on Education and the Workforce.\n\nThe United States' National Association of Secondary School Principals (NASSP) opposes the use of corporal punishment in schools, defined as the deliberate infliction of pain in response to students' unacceptable behavior and/or language. In articulating their opposition, they cite the disproportionate use of corporal punishment on Black students in the US: potential adverse effects on students' self-image and school achievement, correlation between school corporal punishment and increased truancy, drop-out rates, violence, and vandalism by youth, the potential for misuse and/or injury to students, and increased legal liability for schools. The NASSP notes that the use of corporal punishment in schools is inconsistent with laws regarding child abuse as well as policies toward \"racial, economic, and gender equity\", asserting that \"Fear of pain or embarrassment has no place\" in the process of education. The NASSP recommends a range of alternatives to corporal punishment, including \"appropriate instruction\", \"behavioral contracts\", \"positive reinforcement\", and \"individual and group counseling\" where necessary.\n\nSome scholars note a severe legal double-standard when it comes to the physical punishment of children versus adults. In North Carolina, teachers can use a 2-foot long paddle to discipline children, which, in some cases, is more than half the height of an elementary school-aged child. \"In any other context, the act of an adult hitting another person with a board [2 feet long] (or really, of any size) would be considered assault with a weapon and would be punishable under criminal law.\"\n\nHowever, some teachers and administrators defend the use of corporal punishment in the classroom as a reasonable alternative to other types of disciplinary action, like suspension, which have been shown to negatively impact children's classroom performance and social skills. Some students, when given the choice between an in-school suspension and corporal punishment, choose to be physically punished in lieu of missing class time.\n\nThe student's choice in favor of corporal punishment is often dictated by the parents and by the fact that a corporal punishment is not reported on student's personal record, when a suspension is duly recorded and can jeopardize the access to the university. Often students accept a physical punishment as a way to erase the record of the infraction. \n\nIn March 2018 the mother of Wylie Greer, a senior year student, has published a Tweet that become viral, she reported that during national gun control student walkout, his son with two other students walked out of class in Greenbrier High School, Arkansas. The same day the Assistant principal Mr Brett Meek informed Wylie of the consequences, two days of suspension or two \"swats\" with a wooden paddle. Wylie chose the corporal punishment. During a nationwide protest in favor of a more strict gun control, Wylie described the experience more humiliating than painful, but he reported that Mr.Meek warned him that it was a particularly light punishment, somehow to avoid further bad publicity to the school. Arkansas is one of the states where even senior students above 18 year old, can be paddled in school. \n\nIn the 2018 case Ayers v Wells, Mr Ayers, Assistant principal in Etowah middle school in Alabama, was accused of excessive use of force during a paddling incident in 2016. Judge William Ogletree refused to dismiss the charges of child abuse against Mr Ayers and argued that immunity laws cannot be an excuse for using disproportionate force during punishments. This was the first legal limit to immunity laws and school corporal punishments in Alabama.\n\nIn September 2018 The Georgia School of Innovation and the Classics in Georgia sparked controversy when the superintendent Jody Boulineau proposed a reintroduction of corporal punishment. One third of the parents agreed with the proposal. Mr Boulineau in a interview with CBS said that he was really surprised of the outrage from some parents. Google review ratings for the school dropped by 2 points, and several parents expressed in their reviews that they wish to find school alternatives, for fear of their children's safety. The school engaged in a counter-campaign to seek to boost the lowered Google review rating.\n\nOn 3 October 2018 Gary L. Gunckel, the principal of schools in Indianola, Oklahoma was charged with two counts of felony child assault after paddling that left two boys with deep bruises. One of the children fell to the ground during paddling, and Gunckel apologized to one of the mothers for busting the boys. Once more, parents that gave consent for paddling realized too late that school corporal punishments can be much more severe than any corporal punishment dealt at home. In light of recent events it is indeed almost impossible to draw a line between punishment and child abuse and it is impossible to determine some standard on how hard a kid could be punished without committing a crime. The Supreme Court case Ingraham v. Wright appears to be more and more outdated facing growing hostility from parents towards consequences of corporal punishments in school. Gunckel has been placed on administrative leave.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8268744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8268744", "title": "Social and Vocational Skills", "text": "Social and Vocational Skills\n\nSocial and Vocational Skills (SVS) is a subject which can be taken in high schools as a Standard Grade in Scotland. Unlike other subjects in the Scottish educational system, those who take it are picked specially to do it, normally due to failings in other subjects or social issues. There are exceptions to this rule however, such as Elgin Academy in Moray, where it is taken as an additional compulsory standard grade by all pupils, giving most students a possible total of 9.\n\n"}
{"id": "39427396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39427396", "title": "Super Boy Allan", "text": "Super Boy Allan\n\n\"Super Boy Allan\" is the second installment in Sunsoft and Asmik's Intelligence Game trilogy. It is preceded by \"Adian no Tsue\" (1986), and followed by \"Chitei Tairiku Orudora\" (1987).\n\nIn the game, Allan Colada journeys from his home in the foothills into the mountains to retrieve a remedy for his sister Leela's fever.\n\nTo progress through most game screens, the player must push, kick, or pull logs to clear a path to the exit, as well as to solve arithmetic equations and inequality statements involving fractions.\n\nThe mechanics of the log-pushing puzzles are comparable to those in the \"Eggerland\" video game franchise, which in turn derive from \"Sokoban\" (1982). However, by using a rope (which are in limited supply), Allan can also pull a log away. Kicking a log toward an enemy defeats the enemy.\n\nThe design of the game world is patterned on Nintendo's action-adventure game \"The Legend of Zelda\" (1986).\n\n"}
{"id": "3479307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3479307", "title": "The Circle School", "text": "The Circle School\n\nThe Circle School is an Integral school located in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania and founded in 1984, and is operated similarly to the Sudbury model established by the Sudbury Valley School in Framingham, Massachusetts. It enrolls pre-kindergarten through high school aged children. The Circle School currently has approximately 70 students enrolled and 5 full-time staff members. It is one of three Sudbury-like schools in Pennsylvania and one of the oldest in the world.\n\nThe Sudbury Valley model of schooling has two defining characteristics. First, the students are free to spend their time as they choose. During the hours they are in school students can spend their time engaging in any activity they wish (reading, playing video games, climbing trees, conversing, studying, playing trumpet etc.). The only requirements placed on them are that they must follow the rules and that they must do a chore each day (the school has no custodian). There are no required grades or evaluations, the idea being that every activity students engage in, they engage in because they wish to do so. The second defining characteristic is that the school is run democratically on a one-person, one vote-model. All the \"day-to-day\" affairs of the school are governed by a democratic body called the School Meeting. There, decisions are made concerning such things as creating, repealing or amending rules, all aspects of managing the school, suspending and expelling students, etc. The School Meeting is composed of all students and staff members (teachers) and since the students greatly outnumber the staff members, most of the administrative power lies with the students. This model of education receives a great deal of skepticism as it is very different than the other methods of teaching.\n\nThe Circle School was founded in 1984 by Beth Stone, Jim Rietmulder and Sue Narten. They were soon joined by dee Holland-Vogt. The school was not founded as a democratic school but as an innovative pre-school and elementary school. In 1997 The Circle School added high school grades and has ever since included all grades, pre-kindergarten through high school.\n\n"}
{"id": "31826475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31826475", "title": "ThreeJars", "text": "ThreeJars\n\nThreeJars, Inc. is a U.S.-based company specializing in teaching financial literacy to children aged 5 to 13 through an online allowance service. They believe it is best to teach children about money early in life, through allowance, and hands-on experience.\n\nThreeJars works like an online bank for children, but instead of cash, parents pay allowances in IOUs, representing real money. Parents decide how the allowance will be allocated to their child's SAVE, SPEND and SHARE Jars. Parents can track chores and paying projects. Earned IOUs are credited to a child's jars, but the actual cash stays with the parent. A parent's approval is required for all financial transactions. Children learn to budget, set financial goals, delay gratification, earn interest, and make charitable donations. Children track their financial choices.\n\nThreeJars employs the financial expertise of Jean Chatzky.\n\nThreeJars is located in Westport, Connecticut and services the United States and Canada.\n\nThreeJars was founded by a husband and wife of six children: Anton Simunovic and Carlotta McClaran. The founders explain on their website:\n\"Like most parents, my wife and I wanted our kids to lead happy, purposeful lives. But how to raise a child with a mind for managing money and a heart for helping others? Despite a career in finance, I found it hard to speak to my kids about money. While I didn't want them to feel entitled, I didn't want them to stress over money either. We all know that if you do not learn to manage money responsibly it will end up managing you. If we're lucky, we also understand that by helping others we are really helping ourselves. Both of these values are at the core of ThreeJars.\"\n\nThreeJars has partnered with several experts (including Jean Chatzky), companies (including Rogers Communications and \"Parents Magazine\"), and charities in the fields of finance, parenting, and philanthropy. Charities that may be supported by ThreeJars clients include:\n\nThreeJars.com has been reviewed in various publications and websites, including \"Consumer Reports\" \"Money Crashers\" and \"Yahoo Finance\"\n\nIn general, reviewers agree that the site's independence from credit card payments is a benefit. (Children request payouts from their virtual accounts, and parents receive an alert of the request, fulfilling the request out of their own cash on hand.) However, they disliked the option of payouts in gift cards, noting that such cards limit a child's choices of how to spend their money, and often go unredeemed or partially redeemed. Since the \"Consumer Reports\" review, ThreeJars has ceased to offer gift cards as a redemption option.\n\n"}
{"id": "535267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=535267", "title": "University of Fribourg", "text": "University of Fribourg\n\nThe University of Fribourg (; ) is a university in the city of Fribourg, Switzerland.\n\nThe roots of the university can be traced back to 1580, when the notable Jesuit Peter Canisius founded the Collège Saint-Michel in the City of Fribourg. In 1763, an Academy of law was founded by the state of Fribourg which formed the nucleus of the present Law Faculty. The University of Fribourg was finally created in 1889 by an Act of the parliament of the Swiss Canton of Fribourg.\n\nThe University of Fribourg is Switzerland’s only bilingual university and offers full curricula in both French and German, two of Switzerland's national languages. Students number about 10,000; there are about 200 tenured professors and 700 other academic teaching and research personnel. The Misericorde Campus, constructed between 1939–42, was designed by the architects Honegger and Dumas, students of Swiss architect Le Corbusier.\n\nThere are five faculties: Catholic theology, law, natural sciences, humanities, and economics & social sciences.\n\nThe university owes its earliest origin to the foundation of the Jesuit on Belze Hill by Peter Canisius in 1580 at the invitation of the government of Fribourg. In 1763, an Academy of Law was founded, housed in the Albertinium (now a Dominican residence). In 1834, the cantonal library was formed from works brought to Fribourg (from Catholic monasteries) for safekeeping. The College St. Michel was closed following the expulsion of the Jesuits from Fribourg after the canton's defeat in the Sonderbund war.\nIn 1886, Georges Python, founder of the cantonal bank and State Counsellor for Fribourg (M.P. in the upper house of the Swiss parliament) became Director of Public Education. He raised funds through a lottery and was\ngranted some 2,500,000 CHF by the canton. The cantonal library became integrated with that of the university and the Academy became the Faculty of Law. In 1939, the university moved to a new campus constructed on the former cemetery of Misericorde, ceding St. Michel to one of Fribourg's gymnasia, which took the name College St. Michel. During the Second World War, the university set up \"university camps\" along with the University of Zürich, HEC in St. Gall and a Lycée camp at Wetzikon provided a wide variety of courses to educate Polish prisoners of war.\n\nThe Perolles campus was constructed on the site of a former wagon factory.\n\nAlthough many lectures were originally in Latin, Fribourg is now the only French/German bilingual university in the world (45% French and 55% German). The town itself is 70% French and 30% German. This fact, coupled with the traditional dominance of French as the language of the city aristocracy explains why French has remained so dominant in university administration and in the AGEF (Association Generale des Etudiants Fribourgois), the Student's Union. To commemorate the centerary of the university, La Poste issued a stamp depicting the figures Science and Sagesse.\n\nIn 2005, the university inaugurated its Perolles 2 campus, to which the Faculty of Economics and Social Science relocated. The university has the third largest collection of Biblical antiquities in the world after the British Museum and the Cairo Museum. Fribourg has also developed FriMat, a centre of excellence in nanotechnology. As part of the BeNeFri association comprising the Universities of Berne, Neuchâtel and Fribourg, students at any one of these universities may take courses at another in the association and still receive credit at their home institution. The academic degrees were the Demi-Licence, Licence, DEA / DESS, Doctorate. The university now follows the requirements of the Bologna process.\n\nThe University of Fribourg launched for the 2009–2010 academic year a new postgraduate law programme, the Master of Laws in Cross-Cultural Business Practice (MLCBP), an LL.M taught entirely in English.\n\nFribourg has no central campus and its buildings are located throughout the city.\nThe main sites are:\n\nThe Fribourg University is divided into five faculties:\n\n\n\nThe university seal depicts a cross and bishop's ring representing the university's Catholic ethos on a shield of black and white, representing the canton of Fribourg. The logo of the university is a blue stylized \"F\" (with triangles echoing the facade structure of the Miséricorde Building and symbolizing the Alps) and the name of the university in Latin.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "370467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=370467", "title": "University of Maine", "text": "University of Maine\n\nThe University of Maine (UMaine or Maine) is a public research university in Orono, Maine, United States. The university was established in 1865 as a land grant college and is the flagship university of the University of Maine System. The University of Maine is one of only a few land, sea and space grant institutions in the nation.\n\nWith an enrollment of approximately 11,000 students, UMaine is the state's largest university and the only institution in Maine classified as a research university (RU/H) by the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education. The University of Maine's athletic teams, nicknamed the Black Bears, are Maine's only Division I athletics program. Maine's men's ice hockey team has won two national championships.\n\nThe University of Maine was founded in 1862 as a function of the Morrill Act, signed by President Lincoln. Established in 1865 as the Maine State College of Agriculture and the Mechanic Arts, the Maine College opened on September 21, 1868 and changed its name to the University of Maine in 1897.\n\nBy 1871, curricula had been organized in Agriculture, Engineering, and electives. The Maine Agricultural and Forest Experiment Station was founded as a division of the university in 1887. Gradually the university developed the Colleges of Life Sciences and Agriculture (later to include the School of Forest Resources and the School of Human Development), Engineering and Science, and Arts and Sciences. In 1912 the Maine Cooperative Extension, which offers field educational programs for both adults and youths, was initiated. The School of Education was established in 1930 and received college status in 1958. The School of Business Administration was formed in 1958 and was granted college status in 1965. Women have been admitted into all curricula since 1872. The first master's degree was conferred in 1881; the first doctor's degree in 1960. Since 1923 there has been a separate graduate school.\nNear the end of the 19th century, the university expanded its curriculum to place greater emphasis on liberal arts. As a result of this shift, faculty hired during the early 20th century included Caroline Colvin, chair of the history department and the nation's first woman to head a major university department.\n\nIn 1906, The Senior Skull Honor Society was founded to \"publicly recognize, formally reward, and continually promote outstanding leadership and scholarship, and exemplary citizenship within the University of Maine community.\"\n\nOn April 16, 1925, 80 women met in Balentine Hall faculty, alumnae, and undergraduate representatives to plan a pledging of members to an inaugural honorary organization. This organization was called \"The All Maine Women\" because only those women closely connected with the University of Maine were elected as members. On April 22, 1925, the new members were inducted into the honor society.\n\nWhen the University of Maine System was incorporated, in 1968, the school was renamed by the legislature over the objections of the faculty to the University of Maine at Orono. This was changed back to the University of Maine in 1986.\n\nThe University of Maine is the flagship of the University of Maine System. The president of the university is Joan Ferrini-Mundy. The senior administration governs cooperatively with the Chancellor of the University of Maine system, James H. Page and the sixteen members of the University of Maine Board of Trustees (of which fifteen are appointed by the Governor of Maine and one is the current Maine State Commissioner of Education). The Board of Trustees has full legal responsibility and authority for the university system. It appoints the Chancellor and each university President, approves the establishment and elimination of academic programs, confers tenure on faculty members, and sets tuition rates/operating budgets.\n\nUMaine is also one of a handful of colleges in the United States whose Student Government is incorporated. Student Government was formed in 1978 and incorporated in 1987. It is classified as a 501(c)(3) not-for-profit corporation. It consists of a legislative branch, which passes resolutions, and an executive branch, which helps organize on-campus entertainment and guest speakers, works with new and existing student organizations, and performs other duties. Other organizations fall under the umbrella of Student Government Inc., including representative boards, community associations, and many other student groups. The Maine Campus, the student newspaper, is also incorporated and does not operate under or receive money from student government.\n\nSituated on Marsh Island, between the Penobscot and Stillwater rivers, the University of Maine is the nation's only land grant university (other than the University of Hawai'i) on an island. Occupying the small city of Orono, population ~9,500, the campus has an enrollment (2012–2013) of 10,901 students. The campus has thirty-seven academic buildings, thirty administrative buildings, eighteen residence halls, eighteen specific laboratory facilities, fourteen Greek life houses, ten sports facilities, five museums, three dining facilities, two convenience stores, a student union, a cafe, a pub, an state of the art recreation and fitness center, and a 200'x200' air supported athletic/recreational dome.\n\nIn 1867, the university rejected a campus plan by landscape architect Frederick Law Olmsted, who designed Central Park in New York City and the White House grounds in Washington, D.C. The plan's broad concepts, including the Front Lawn, were nevertheless adopted during the school's first fifty years, and were oriented toward the Stillwater River. A second master plan was produced in 1932 by Carl Rust Parker of the Olmsted Brothers firm, which reoriented the campus center to the Mall, an open grassy area between the Raymond H. Fogler Library and the Memorial Gym. The Mall is further bordered by one residence and five academic halls.\n\nThe campus is essentially divided into three sections (northern, southern, and hilltop), all of which are near or border the Mall. The northern section includes many of the athletic facilities, including the Alfond Arena (basketball, hockey), Morse Field at the Alfond Sports Stadium (football, track and field), Larry Mahaney Diamond (baseball), Kessock Field (softball), the Field Hockey Complex (field hockey), and the Mahaney athletic/recreational dome. Other buildings on the northern section include the Cutler Health Center, two administrative halls, three residence halls, and multiple academic halls.\n\nThe southern section of campus includes the Memorial Student Union, the Maynard F. Jordan Observatory, Lengyel Gymnasium and Athletic Field, the Buchanan Alumni House, as well as multiple administrative, residence, and academic halls. The recently renovated Collins Center for the Arts is also on the southern part of campus, and not only provides the Hutchins Concert Hall, a 1,435-seat venue for performing artists from around the world, but also houses the Hudson Museum, known for its contemporary Native American art, as well as displays that are culturally specific to the indigenous people of Maine. The Hilltop section of campus is populated largely with residence halls but also includes the Lyle E. Littlefield Ornamental Gardens, as well as academic and recreational facilities. The campus is also designated as an arboretum.\n\nThe pre-1915 core of the campus, covering its earliest period of development, was listed as a historic district on the National Register of Historic Places in 1978; this was expanded to include the second major phase of development (through the end of World War II) in 2010.\n\nThe University of Maine operates the \"University Volunteer Ambulance Corps,\" an Ambulance service licensed by the State of Maine. The service is operated by students and staff of the University. UVAC's ambulances are available to respond to emergencies on campus and also provide mutual aid to surrounding towns and agencies. The service ensures a licensed Emergency Medical Technician is sent on every call. The service has two ambulances both equipped to provide Paramedic Level care. UVAC responds to approximately 500 calls per school year.\n\nGreek life has existed at the University of Maine since 1874. The Greeks presence remains strong, with approximately 14% of University of Maine undergraduates members of Greek letter organizations.\n\nThe University of Maine is one of 16 colleges and universities listed in \"Princeton Review's\" \"Green Honor Roll\" (2011). Several of the nation's leading research universities, including Virginia Tech, Georgia Tech, Oregon State, Arizona State and the University of Washington are also on that prestigious list, as are Harvard and Northeastern. Recognizing schools for their commitment to sustainability, the Green Honor Roll lists only those 16 institutions that received the highest possible score on \"The Princeton Review\" green rating. The guide lauds UMaine for its recycling programs, green-certified buildings and free shuttle bus service. It also notes the fact UMaine has a sustainability coordinator, a sustainability council, and \"Eco Reps\" in its residence halls.\n\nUniversity of Maine has a sustainability council made up of students, faculty, administrators, staff and a full-time sustainability coordinator. A green loan fund provides capital for energy efficiency and renewable energy investments. The university has committed to achieving carbon neutrality by 2040, and two residential-scale solar thermal systems are in place on Nutting Hall and Sebec House. The University of Maine composts food scraps from dining facilities, and York Dining Hall has gone trayless to reduce waste. For all new campus construction, LEED Silver standards are required. The Blue Bike program refurbishes abandoned bikes and rents them to students free of charge, providing a means of alternative transportation on and around-campus.\n\nThe University of Maine offers 90 undergraduate major programs organized in five Colleges: the College of Business, Public Policy and Health; the College of Education and Human Development; the College of Engineering; the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences; and the College of Natural Sciences, Forestry and Agriculture. UMaine also is home to one of the nation's oldest honors programs, now called the Honors College. The Honors College offers academically qualified students an opportunity for intensive, interdisciplinary study. Students are invited to become part of the Honors College during the admissions review process. UMaine also offers a wide array of graduate programs, including more than seventy master's degree programs and thirty doctorate programs.\nThe University of Maine is one of only a handful of institutions to offer a combined developmental/clinical Ph.D. to students accepted into their clinical psychology Ph.D. program, as well as advanced degrees with distinct concentrations in developmental psychology, social psychology, cognitive psychology, and behavioral neuroscience. The University of Maine has a strong commitment to developing the next generation of neuroscience researchers and educators, thus along with offering a Ph.D. in psychological science with a concentration in behavioral neuroscience, they also offer a neuroscience concentration for Ph.D. students studying biomedical science.\n\nIt is the only institution in Maine ranked as a national university in the \"U.S. News and World Report\" annual rankings. U.S. News categorizes UMaine as an institution that offers \"a full range of undergraduate majors, master's, and doctoral degrees.\"\n\nUMaine is one of only four institutions in Maine (along with Bowdoin, Bates, and Colby) accredited to award membership into the Phi Beta Kappa honor society.\n\nThe university is also the birthplace of the Phi Kappa Phi honor society, recognizing high academic achievement across all disciplines.\n\nThe Raymond H. Fogler Library is the largest in Maine and serves as one of its intellectual hubs, attracting scholars, professors, and researchers from around the state. A collection of rare and ancient manuscripts, as well as about two million government publications, augment the University's collection. The Special Collections Unit includes the Stephen King (author and UMaine alumnus) papers, which attract researchers from across the globe.\n\nUMaine hosts the Intensive English Institute, an English as a second language program designed to help students develop their English language skills for success in school, business, and social communication.\n\nWith 211 faculty and 2,742 students (fall 2011), the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences offers Maine's most comprehensive liberal arts experience.\n\nThe University of Maine is also home to the Maine Business School, the largest business school in the state. Paris-based international educational consulting organization Eduniversal has included the Maine Business School at the University of Maine among its selection of 1,000 of the world's best business schools, ranking it as an \"excellent business school-nationally strong and/or with continental links.\" In 2011, U.S. News and World Report ranked the Maine Business School among the nation's best business colleges \n\nThe Canadian-American Center, an institution that focuses on Canadian-American studies is based at the University of Maine.\n\nThe University of Maine receives overall accreditation by the New England Association of Schools and Colleges, the oldest regional accrediting association in the United States, as well as from many other professional societies, including the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business, the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology, the American Chemical Society, the American Dietetic Association, the American Psychological Association, the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association, the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, the Computing Sciences Accreditation Board, the Council on Social Work Education, the National Association of Schools of Music, the National Association of Schools of Public Affairs and Administration, the National Council for Accreditation of Teacher Education, the Society of American Foresters, and the Society of Wood Science and Technology.\n\nThe University of Maine received the following classifications from The Carnegie Foundation:\n\nThe Fall 2014 admissions data are as follows:\n\nThe 2014–2015 overall enrollment is as follows:\n\nThe University of Maine is one of the National Science Foundation's top 100 public universities for research. In FY10, UMaine exceeded $100 million in external expenditures for research — 86% of which was federal funding. Leading sectors of the university in generating external support are advanced materials, marine sciences, climate change, environmental studies, forestry, precision manufacturing, and aquaculture. Undergraduate research is a priority at UMaine, and in 2008, the Center for Undergraduate Research was established to connect students with faculty projects that suit their interests.\n\nThe University of Maine has several research areas that operate as independent units under the umbrella of the University of Maine. While these units house and fund faculty, staff, and students from a variety of academic backgrounds and colleges, the research units are independent of the traditional departmental and college structure. The full list of independent research units at the University of Maine include:\n\nThe UMaine Advanced Structures and Composites Center, founded in 1996 with support from the National Science Foundation, provides research, education, and economic development encompassing material sciences, manufacturing and engineering of composites and structures. The center's research and development projects have included the VolturnUS 1:8, composite arch bridge system, and the Modular Ballistic Protection System (MBPS).\n\nThe center is the leading member of the DeepCwind Consortium, whose mission is to establish the State of Maine as a national leader in deepwater offshore wind technology.\n\nThe University of Maine was granted an ocean energy demonstration site through state legislation in 2009. The site, known as the UMaine Deepwater Offshore Wind Test Site, is available for use by commercial and non-commercial entities in partnership with the university to research and develop ocean energy devices, such as floating wind turbines or wave energy converters.\n\nThe University of Maine participates in the NCAA's Division I level, and is a member of the Colonial Athletic Association for football, Hockey East for ice hockey, and the America East Conference for all other sports. The school has won two national championships, both in men's ice hockey. In 1993, they defeated Lake Superior State University 5-4 behind a third period hat trick by Jim Montgomery. In 1999, they defeated rival University of New Hampshire 3-2 in overtime on a goal by Marcus Gustafsson.\n\nIn 1965, the football team competed in the Tangerine Bowl in Orlando, Florida against East Carolina. They were beaten in the game 31-0, but remain the only team from Maine to compete in a bowl contest.\n\nThe baseball team has participated in seven College World Series, six of them under coach John Winkin between 1976 and 1986, and one under Jack Butterfield in 1964. The Black Bears achieved two third-place finishes in 1964 and 1982.\n\nAlthough the official fight song of UMaine is \"For Maine\", the school's main spirit song is the better-known \"Maine Stein Song\". Written by Lincoln Colcord (words) and E. A. Fenstad (music), the tune rose to fame when singer Rudy Vallée arranged the current version. Vallee attended Maine from 1921–1922 before transferring to Yale, and his popularity helped make the song a national favorite. To this day, the \"Stein Song\" remains the only college fight song to ever reach number one on the pop charts, achieving this distinction in 1930. According to \"College Fight Songs: An Annotated Anthology\", by Studwell and Schueneman, the \"Stein Song\" is one of the very best fight songs of all time.\n\nIn addition to varsity athletics, the university offers many club sports through its Campus Recreation department. Sport clubs represent UMaine by competing against teams and clubs from other universities and colleges. National governing bodies for each club provide competition guidelines and league structure.\n\nSport clubs are student-led and student-administered. Each has a budget that is run through Campus Recreation, which in part funds nearly all clubs. Clubs are eligible for funding through Campus Recreation after they have been active for at least one year and have a membership minimum of ten members. Current club sports include alpine skiing, baseball, crew, cricket, cycling, fast pitch softball, field hockey, golf, ice hockey, lacrosse, nordic skiing, roller hockey, rugby, shotokan karate, soccer, tennis, table tennis, tackle football, ultimate, and volleyball.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32152024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32152024", "title": "Vatterott College", "text": "Vatterott College\n\nVatterott College is a for-profit career training institute in the fields of Business, Technical, Medical, Trades, Court Reporting, and Culinary. The school currently offers programs at 25 campuses in 10 states across the Midwest of the United States, and through its online division.\n\nIt is operated by Vatterott Educational Centers, Inc., owned by the private equity firm TA Associates.\n\nThe college also offers distance-learning programs, called eCompanion Courses, which allow students to earn credits, diplomas and degrees through online classes. The same resources are available to distance education students as on-campus students. As of November 2018, the Quincy, Des Moines, Wichita, St. Joseph, Cleveland and Oklahoma City campuses will be permanently closed. \n\nVatterott College currently operates facilities in the following US cities:\n\n\nVatterott College was founded in 1969 in St. Louis, MO by John C. Vatterott Sr. The original name was Urban Technical Centers, Inc., and subsequent changes included Vatterott & Sullivan Educational Center and Vatterott Educational Centers.\n\nThe institution changed its name to Vatterott College in 1989 when associate degree (specialized) granting authority was issued by the Accrediting Commission of National Association of Trade and Technical Schools (NATTS), which is now called the Accrediting Commission of Career Schools and Colleges (ACCSC).\n\nIn January 1985, the institution opened a facility in St. Ann, Missouri.\n\nThe college expanded to Springfield, Joplin, and Independence, Missouri, in April 1991 as a result of a teach-out of students attending Draughon Business College. In August 1991, Vatterott College was authorized to establish branch campuses at these locations. In May 1995, Vatterott College expanded to Quincy, Illinois, as a result of the acquisition of the former Quincy Technical Schools.\n\nIn June 1996, the Business and Banking Institutes with locations in Omaha, Nebraska, and Des Moines, Iowa, were acquired. Programs were added and the institutions were relocated under the Vatterott brand. In the same year, an additional location of the St. Ann campus opened in Sunset Hills, Missouri. Vatterott College expanded into the following cities as a result of various teach-out agreements: St. Joseph, Missouri, in March 1995; Tulsa, Oklahoma, in 1997; Memphis, Tennessee, in 1999; Wichita, Kansas, in 1999; and Cleveland, Ohio in 2001. In 1997, a location was opened in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.\n\nIn December 1999, Vatterott College expanded in Omaha, Nebraska by acquiring the former Universal Technology Institute. In January 2000, a campus was established in O’Fallon, Missouri. In September 2001, Vatterott College purchased the former Omaha College of Health Careers in Omaha, Nebraska, and established a campus. Wellspring Capital Management acquired all Vatterott College locations in January 2003 and named the holding company as Vatterott Educational Centers, Inc.\n\nL’Ecole Culinaire, a culinary school located in St. Louis, was opened in 2004. Vatterott College operations expanded into Texas in 2004, acquiring Court Reporting Institute of Dallas and the Court Reporting Institute of Houston. These two campuses are now closed (2015).\n\nIn January 2007, Vatterott Education Center located in Dallas, Texas was approved as a branch campus of the Quincy main institution and has since been closed (2014). The Vatterott Career College, Appling Farms (Memphis, TN) location was opened in April 2008. In November 2008, L’École Culinaire, Cordova, Tennessee, was opened. Vatterott College was established in Fairview Heights, Illinois in August, 2009 with seven diploma programs.\n\nIn September 2009, TA Associates acquired Vatterott Educational Centers, Inc. from WellSpring Capital Partners. That year three executives of the College were convicted of conspiring to obtain federal student grants and loans for students who were not eligible by providing false information and documents.\n\nThe O’Fallon, Missouri, location relocated in the fall of 2010 to a renovated building in St. Charles, MO. The Court Reporting Institute opened a campus in Arlington, Virginia, in December 2011 and was closed within one year after opening.\n\n\"ex’Treme Institute by Nelly\", a music recording and production school, was opened in St. Louis Missouri in December, 2011.\n\nPamela Bell is the former CEO of Vatterott Educational Centers, Inc.\n\nIn 2014, the college was sued by a student who claimed that she was misled that her credits from the college would be transferable toward a nursing certificate.\n\nIn January 2017, Brian Carroll, president of the college's Kansas City campus for the previous five years, was fired by the school because he allowed a homeless student to sleep in the library on a night where temperatures fell to -4 degrees Fahrenheit.\n\nVatterott College, Vatterott Career College, Vatterott Education Center and L’École Culinaire are accredited by the Accrediting Commission of Career Schools and Colleges (ACCSC). The Accrediting Commission of Career Schools and Colleges is listed by the U.S. Department of Education as a nationally recognized accrediting agency.\n\n"}
{"id": "1226945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1226945", "title": "XF (grade)", "text": "XF (grade)\n\nXF is a letter grade used at some U.S. colleges, to denote either students who withdraw from a course after the refund period has lapsed or who are caught performing acts of academic dishonesty. This was intended to make it evident from the transcript why the failing grade was assigned, though critics have pointed to inconsistent grading schema among universities issuing XF grades. The XF variation is also used by at least one institution to indicate a student who has failed a course due to non-attendance.\n\nThe earliest instance of the XF grade occurred at the University of Maryland, College Park, and XFs have been assigned for plagiarists at Kansas State University since 2000. Pennsylvania State University and East Carolina University have also recently adopted the practice. At Kansas, students with XF grades may have the grade changed to a regular \"F\" by enrolling in an academic integrity course.\n\nStudents at Wichita State University, who did not wish for \"F\"s on their transcript to be mistaken for academic dishonesty, requested adoption of the XF by their university. Students at Thomas Edison State University requested that XF grades gained from missing the withdrawal deadline be omitted from official transcripts, leading to a policy change within the university. This is notable in that the discussion was sparked, in part, by inconsistent grading policies among universities issuing XF grades.\n\n"}
