{"id": "46233323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46233323", "title": "(341843) 2008 EV5", "text": "(341843) 2008 EV5\n\n, provisional designation , is a sub-kilometer asteroid, classified as near-Earth object and potentially hazardous asteroid of the Aten group, approximately in diameter. It was discovered on 4 March 2008, by astronomers of the Mount Lemmon Survey at Mount Lemmon Observatory near Tucson, Arizona, United States.\n\n is an oblate spheroid in diameter. It rotates very slowly in a retrograde direction. There is a diameter concave feature, possibly an impact crater, or a relic feature from a previous episode of rapid rotation that caused the asteroid's shape to reconfigure.\n\nVisible and near-infrared spectroscopy show that 's composition is similar to that of carbonaceous chondrite meteorites.\n\n is the preliminary baseline target of a proposed sample-return NASA mission called ARM. Besides the asteroid , several other asteroids, including Itokawa and Bennu, are being considered for this mission.\n\n started its existence as part of a much larger body in the asteroid belt, with a likely diameter greater than 100 kilometers. 's immediate history likely started when its parent body experienced a large cratering event or, more likely, a catastrophic disruption event that resulted in a highly fractured, shattered, or reaccumulated object (rubble pile). As a result, may have been produced as a reassembly of ejected fragments. The location of what is now within this parent body is unknown.\n\nGiven the available modeling work and data, the most plausible source family candidates for are Eulalia, New Polana, and Erigone. This assumes that 's true albedo is considerably lower than 10%. If it does have a high albedo, a plausible source would be a population of high-albedo C-type asteroids in the inner asteroid belt. Second tier candidate families for the high-albedo case are Baptistina and Pallas.\n\nFrom here, the newly liberated began to change via the forces referred to as the Yarkovsky and YORP effects. The Yarkovsky effect describes a small force that affects orbital motion. It is caused by sunlight; when objects heat up in the Sun, they reradiate the energy away as heat, which in turn creates a tiny thrust. This recoil acceleration is much weaker than solar and planetary gravitational forces, but it can produce substantial orbital changes over timescales ranging from many millions to billions of years. The same physical phenomenon also creates a thermal torque that probably caused to take on a top-like appearance.\n\nDynamical models indicate that migrated inward across the inner asteroid belt over long timescales (i.e. the order of ~0.01–1 Gyr) until it reached a planetary gravitational resonance that drove it into the near-Earth asteroid (NEA) population over a timescale of the order of ~1 Myr. From there, gravitational interactions with both the planets and resonances allowed it to reach its current orbit within a few Myr to a few tens of Myr.\n\nOn 23 December 2008, made a close approach to Earth at a distance of 8.4 lunar distances (0.022 AU, 3.2 million km), its closest until 2169. Its brightness peaked on December 26 about 13.2 magnitude.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30170818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30170818", "title": "1973 Paris Air Show Tu-144 crash", "text": "1973 Paris Air Show Tu-144 crash\n\nThe 1973 Paris Air Show crash was the crash of the second production Tupolev Tu-144 at Goussainville, Val-d'Oise, France, which killed all six crew and eight people on the The crash, at the Paris Air Show on Sunday, 3 June damaged the development program of the Tupolev Tu-144.\n\nOne theory is that a French Mirage jet sent to photograph the aircraft without the knowledge of the Soviet crew caused the pilots to take evasive manoeuvres, resulting in the Another theory is that in a rivalry with the Anglo-French Concorde, the pilots attempted a manoeuvre that was beyond the capabilities of \n\nThe aircraft involved was Tupolev Tu-144S CCCP-77102, manufacturer's serial number 01-2, the second production Tu-144. The aircraft had first flown on 29 March 1972. This aircraft had been heavily modified compared to the initial prototype, now featuring engine nacelles split on either side of the fuselage, landing gear that retracted into the nacelles, and retractable canards. The pilot was Mikhail Kozlov, and the co-pilot was Valery M. Molchanov. Also on board were G. N. Bazhenov, the flight navigator, V. N. Benderov, deputy chief designer and engineer major-general, B. A. Pervukhin, senior engineer, and A. I. Dralin, flight engineer. The crash occurred in front of 250,000 people, including designer Alexei Tupolev, towards the end of the show.\n\nDuring the show, there was a \"fierce competition between the Anglo-French Concorde and the Russian Tu-144\". The Soviet pilot, Mikhail Kozlov, had bragged that he would outperform the Concorde. \"Just wait until you see us fly,\" he was quoted as saying. \"Then you'll see something.\" On the final day of the show, the Concorde, which was not yet in production, performed its demonstration flight first. Its performance was later described as being unexciting, and it has been theorized that Kozlov was determined to show how much better his aircraft was.\n\nOnce in flight, the aircraft made what appeared to be a landing approach, with the landing gear out and the \"moustache\" canards extended, but then with all four engines full power, climbed rapidly. Possibly stalling below , the aircraft pitched over and went into a steep dive. Trying to pull out of the subsequent dive with the engines again at full power, the Tu-144 broke up in mid-air, possibly due to overstressing the airframe. The left wing came away first, and then the aircraft disintegrated and crashed, destroying 15 houses, and killing all six people on board the Tu-144 and eight more on the ground. Three children were among those killed, and sixty people received severe injuries.\n\nThe crew of the Tu-144 were buried at the Novodevichy Cemetery in Moscow on 12 June 1973.\n\nFollowing the crash, Marcel Dassault called for the 1975 Paris Air Show to be held at Istres, which is situated in open country north west of Marseille.\n\nThe crash reduced the enthusiasm of Aeroflot for the Tu-144. Restrictions on the Tu-144 following the Paris Air Show crash meant that it only saw limited service during 1977 and 1978, and it was finally withdrawn following another crash in May 1978. The Tu-144's rival, the Concorde, went on to serve with British Airways and Air France for 30 years afterwards, being finally withdrawn from service in 2003 due to rising service costs and the slump in the aviation industry following 9/11. In 2000, Concorde Air France Flight 4590 crashed in Paris, France killing all 100 passengers & 9 crew as well as 4 people on the ground.\n\nThe accident was investigated by the DTCE, part of the French Military, which was responsible for accidents involving prototype aircraft in France. The wreckage was recovered to a hangar at Le Bourget, with some of it being flown by Antonov An-22 to the Soviet Union.\n\nOne theory is that the Tu-144 manoeuvred to avoid a French Mirage chase plane that was attempting to photograph its unique canards, which were advanced for the time, and that the French and Soviet governments colluded with each other to cover up such details. The flight of the Mirage was denied in the original French report of the incident, perhaps because it was engaged in industrial espionage. More recent reports have admitted the existence of the Mirage (and the fact that the Soviet crew were not told about the Mirage's flight) though not its role in the crash. However, the official press release did state: \"though the inquiry established that there was no real risk of collision between the two aircraft, the Soviet pilot was likely to have been surprised.\" Howard Moon also stresses that last-minute changes to the flight schedule would have disoriented the pilots in a cockpit with notably poor vision. He also cites an eyewitness who claims the co-pilot had agreed to take a camera with him, which he may have been operating at the time of the evasive manoeuvre. The initial approach may have been an attempted landing on the wrong runway, which occurred due to a last-minute shortening of the Tu-144's display.\n\nBob Hoover believed that the rivalry of the Tu-144 and Concorde led the pilot of the Tu-144 to attempt a manoeuvre that went beyond the abilities of the aircraft: \"That day, the Concorde went first, and after the pilot performed a high-speed flyby, he pulled up steeply and climbed to approximately 10,000 [feet] before leveling off. When the Tu-144 pilot performed the same manoeuvre he pulled the nose up so steeply l didn't believe he could possibly recover.\"\n\nAnother theory claims that there was deliberate misinformation on the part of the Anglo-French design-team. The main thrust of this theory was that the Anglo-French team knew that the Soviet team was planning to steal the design plans of the Concorde, and the Soviets were allegedly passed false blueprints with a flawed design. The case, it is claimed, contributed to the imprisonment by the Soviets of Greville Wynne in 1963 for spying. Wynne was imprisoned on 11 May 1963 and the development of the Tu-144 was not sanctioned until 16 July.\n\n"}
{"id": "52722763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52722763", "title": "1987 Prague Skate", "text": "1987 Prague Skate\n\nThe 1987 Prague Skate was held November 1987. Medals were awarded in the disciplines of men's singles, ladies' singles and pair skating.\n"}
{"id": "24733121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24733121", "title": "2009 Under-19 Cricket World Cup Qualifier", "text": "2009 Under-19 Cricket World Cup Qualifier\n\nThe 2009 ICC Under-19 World Cup Qualifier was an international cricket tournament played in Canada from 1 to 13 September 2009. All matches were held in Toronto. The tournament served as the final state of the qualification process for the 2010 Under-19 World Cup in New Zealand. Ten teams participated in the event, with the top six teams progressing to the World Cup.\n\n\n\n\n The top six teams of the tournament qualified for the 2010 U-19 Cricket World Cup.\n\nAll the matches of the tournament were played in Toronto. Sierra Leone could not participate in this tournament due to visa problems; their matches were scratched and their opponents were awarded two points. \n\nThe top five runscorers are included in this table, ranked by runs scored and then by batting average.\nSource: CricketArchive\n\nThe top five wicket takers are listed in this table, ranked by wickets taken and then by bowling average.\nSource: CricketArchive\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26611880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26611880", "title": "2010 Chile blackout", "text": "2010 Chile blackout\n\nThe 2010 Chile blackout was an electric power outage that affected most of Chile on March 14, 2010. It began at 8:44 pm (23:44 GMT) on Sunday and continued into the next day. The power was restored in a few hours in some areas, and by midnight in most areas, except in the Biobío Region.\n\nThe blackout was caused by a failure of a 500 kV transformer at a substation in southern Chile that is part of the Central Interconnected System (SIC). The affected transformer is located around south of the capital, Santiago. The SIC serves about 93% of the country's population, from Taltal in the north to the Chiloé Island in the south, including Santiago. At one point Santiago was receiving only 8% of the electricity normally required.\n\nThe blackout interrupted a music concert being held to raise funds for the survivors of the earthquake that had devastated the country two weeks earlier. In addition, thousands of people had to be rescued from the Santiago Metro after 20 trains were immobilised and the telephone network was also affected. The fire brigade had to free several people trapped in elevators.\n\nThe blackout affected 90% of the population and electric service began to be restored after an hour. Around 98% of people affected had service restored by March 15, 2010. The blackout caused the share price of the Enersis mining group to fall by 1% to a three-month low, although loss of production was minimal there and at other mining companies in the country because of backup generators.\n\nPresident Sebastián Piñera blamed the power failure on the recent earthquake and said the SIC would remain unstable for a week. Other officials stated that the outage was not directly related to the earthquake. The energy minister, Ricardo Raineri, said that the electric transmission grid remains in a fragile state and asked Chileans to restrict their use of electricity. Raineri stated that during the earthquake the \"electricity network suffered various damages, be it in transformers, switches and others\".\n\nAn investigation was started to determine if the failure was due to a lack of maintenance of the transformer. Piñera vowed to get the transformer repaired within 48 hours of the blackout and to get affected transmission lines checked and repaired within seven days.\n\nOn August 2, 2010, the Chile regulatory authority Superintendency of Electricity and Fuels (SEC) determined that while the blackout was initiated by the equipment failure, the root cause was a widespread lack of coordination between the various companies in the day-to-day operations of the electricity sector. As a result, the SEC laid charges against all 115 companies involved in the electrical sector.\n\nThe charges were as follows:\n\n\nAdditional charges were filed against Endesa (Chile), Transquillota, CHILECTRA, and TRANSELEC for either equipment failures in owned facilities or for failure to provide adequate information to Chile's central electrical grid system operator, Center for Economic Load Dispatch (CDEC-SIC). Further charges were also laid for issues at the Alto Jahuel high voltage electrical substation, located south of Santiago, which led to undue delays in recovery of the Metropolitan Region.\n\nThe Superintendent of the SEC, Patricia Chotzen, said that \"after the technical analysis of the background, as part of a complex investigation, we decided to press charges against the companies involved whom have not made the necessary arrangements, referred to in our regulations.\"\n\nAsked about whether the blackout may have been caused by the earthquake which had occurred two weeks previous, Chotzen said that \"after an event of the magnitude of the earthquake of February, the companies had a duty to increase their level of coordination to avoid a collapse like this one. It is the duty of the utilities that provide a service as fundamental as electricity to ensure continuous and safe supply.\" The current legislation provided for fines of up to 10 000 AWU.\n"}
{"id": "33896602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33896602", "title": "2011 Gansu school bus crash", "text": "2011 Gansu school bus crash\n\nOn November 16, 2011, a school bus run by a private kindergarten collided head-on with a coal truck in Zhengning County, Gansu, China. 19 children were killed, as were 2 adults. The bus was originally a nine-seat van, but it had been modified to carry more passengers, and was severely overcrowded; 62 children were on board at the time of the crash, along with the 2 adults. The government immediately closed the school and opened a public one in its place, with a 45-seat bus donated by an oil company. The school's owner, Li Jungang, was arrested on \"suspicion of causing traffic casualties\"; the parents of each child killed were to be awarded 436,000 yuan in compensation.\n\nThe accident caused a great deal of outcry on the Chinese internet, with many posters criticizing the small amount of money spent on education. Further criticism was leveled at the government when it was announced shortly after the crash that China would donate 23 school buses to Macedonia; many microbloggers questioned the propriety of donating decent vehicles to a foreign country while subjecting Chinese children to substandard conditions.\n"}
{"id": "59303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59303", "title": "496 BC", "text": "496 BC\n\nYear 496 BC was a year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Albus and Tricostus (or, less frequently, year 258 \"Ab urbe condita\"). The denomination 496 BC for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.\n\n<onlyinclude>\n\n\n\n</onlyinclude>\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45526982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45526982", "title": "April 9th (film)", "text": "April 9th (film)\n\nApril 9th () is a 2015 Danish war film directed by Roni Ezra and starring Pilou Asbæk and Lars Mikkelsen. The film depicts the German invasion of Denmark which commenced on 9 April 1940 and follows a group of Danish bicycle infantry sent as a vanguard to slow down the German advance until reinforcements can arrive.\n\nThe film's budget was 22 million Danish krone (just over $3 million) and was supported by the Danish Film Institute, TV 2 and the Haderslev Municipality. The film was released in Danish cinemas on 12 March 2015.\n\nDuring the night of 9 April 1940, the Danish army is alerted that the German army has crossed the border and Denmark is now at war with Europe's strongest army. In South Jutland, a Danish bicycle infantry company and a motorcycle platoon is ordered to hold off the German advance until reinforcements can arrive but are quickly overwhelmed by superior German forces. During the morning Second Lieutenant Sand (Pilou Asbæk) and his platoon of soldiers battle the Germans and then retreat to Haderslev.\n\nThe film was directed by Roni Ezra and the screenplay was by Tobias Lindholm (who also wrote \"A Hijacking\", \"Borgen\" and \"The Hunt\"). The outline story was based on eyewitness accounts, conversations and interviews with the few surviving veterans of 9 April 1940, who fought the invading German Army.\n\nThe \"Between Schleswig Limits\" museum in Bylderup-Bov was approached by Nordisk Film in the autumn of 2013 with regards to assisting with uniforms and weapons. In March 2014 the film company collected 120 Danish steel helmets, 100 gas-mask canisters, 50 pairs of wool pants, 24 dummy-rifles, 32 cartridge belts, and a khaki officer coat. Moreover, the museum loaned two old Nimbus motorcycles with side-cars. All equipment was initially transported to Budapest in Hungary, where part of the movie was shot.\n\nThe film was also shot in Haderslev, where the streets around Møllepladsen, Sønderbro and Convent Cemetery was sealed off from 17 to 19 June 2014. Other shootings took place at the Jacob Michelsen's Farm in Aabenraa and in Søgårdlejren.\n\nThe film received mixed, but generally favorable reviews from Danish critics, with Berlingske and Ekko giving it 5 out of 6 stars, while others gave it between 2-5 out of 6 stars.\n\n"}
{"id": "220465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220465", "title": "Asystole", "text": "Asystole\n\nAsystole (1860, from Modern Latin, from Greek privative a \"not, without\" + \"systolē\" \"contraction\") is the absence of ventricular contractions (note: this is in the context of a lethal heart arrhythmia, not an induced asystole on a cooled patient on a heart-lung machine and general anesthesia, during surgery necessitating stopping the heart). Asystole is the most serious form of cardiac arrest and is usually irreversible. A cardiac flatline is the state of total cessation of electrical activity from the heart, which means no tissue contraction from the heart muscle and therefore no blood flow to the rest of the body.\n\nAsystole should not be confused with very brief pauses in the heart's electrical activity—even those that produce a temporary flatline—that can occur in certain less severe abnormal rhythms. Asystole is different from very fine occurrences of ventricular fibrillation, though both have a poor prognosis, and untreated fine VF will lead to asystole. Faulty wiring, disconnection of electrodes and leads, and power disruptions should be ruled out. \n\nAsystolic patients (as opposed to those with a \"shockable rhythm\" such as ventricular fibrillation or ventricular tachycardia, which can potentially be treated with defibrillation) usually present with a very poor prognosis. Asystole is found initially in only about 28% of cardiac arrest cases, but only 15% of these patients survive, even with the benefit of an intensive care unit, with the rate being lower (6%) for those already prescribed drugs for high blood pressure.\n\nAsystole is treated by cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) combined with an intravenous vasopressor such as epinephrine (a.k.a. adrenaline). Sometimes an underlying reversible cause can be detected and treated (the so-called \"Hs and Ts\", an example of which is hypokalaemia). Several interventions previously recommended—such as defibrillation (known to be ineffective on asystole, but previously performed in case the rhythm was actually very fine ventricular fibrillation) and intravenous atropine—are no longer part of the routine protocols recommended by most major international bodies. Asystole may be treated with 1 mg epinephrine by IV every 3–5 minutes as needed. \n\nSurvival rates in a cardiac arrest patient with asystole are much lower than a patient with a rhythm amenable to defibrillation; asystole is itself not a \"shockable\" rhythm. Out-of-hospital survival rates (even with emergency intervention) are less than 2 percent.\n\nPossible underlying causes, which may be treatable and reversible in certain cases, include the Hs and Ts.\n\n\nWhile the heart is asystolic, there is no blood flow to the brain unless CPR or internal cardiac massage (when the chest is opened and the heart is manually compressed) is performed, and even then it is a small amount. After many emergency treatments have been applied but the heart is still unresponsive, it is time to consider pronouncing the patient dead. Even in the rare case that a rhythm reappears, if asystole has persisted for fifteen minutes or more, the brain will have been deprived of oxygen long enough to cause brain death.\n"}
{"id": "29652603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29652603", "title": "Campeonato Sudamericano de GT", "text": "Campeonato Sudamericano de GT\n\nCampeonato Sudamericano de GT (\"Southamerican GT Championship\") previously known as GT3 Brasil Championship, GT Brasil and Campeonato Brasileiro de GT was a sports car racing series based in the Brazil organized by the SRO Latin America.\n\nStarting in 2007, the GT3 Brasil Championship has been held in Brazil, also organized by SRO, with several veteran drivers racing in some events, such as former Formula One champions Emerson Fittipaldi and former Brazilian Stock Car champions Chico Serra and Ingo Hoffmann. Differently from the European series, GT3 Brasil accepts professional drivers, in a system where drivers are graded from A (International Driver) to D (Fully Amateur).\n\nIn 2010 the championship was renamed for GT Brasil and announced the creation of GT4 class. For 2012 season was introduce GT Premium class caters for older, such as the Dodge Viper Competition Coupe or Porsche 997 GT3 Cup S. The category losing the primary sponsor and change their name to Campeonato Brasileiro de GT. In 2013 the series became a South American championship.\n\nThe following chassis are currently in GT3 and GT Premium:\n\nGT4:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "934150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=934150", "title": "Charles Redheffer", "text": "Charles Redheffer\n\nCharles Redheffer was an American inventor who claimed to have invented a perpetual motion machine. First appearing in Philadelphia, Redheffer exhibited his machine to the public, charging high prices for viewing. When he applied to the government for more money, a group of inspectors were sent to examine the machine. It was discovered the machine was actually powered by a device Redheffer claimed was powered by the machine.\n\nRedheffer moved to New York City and set up a similar scam after rebuilding his machine. However, an engineer detected that it was a fake by listening to its unsteady motions at an exhibition. He discovered that the machine was operated by a man using a crank in a room on the floor above. Redheffer returned to Philadelphia. He later claimed to have created another machine, but refused to demonstrate it to anyone. He managed to get a patent for his machine in 1820, but after this his fate is unknown.\n\nLittle has been recorded about Redheffer's life, other than his connection to the hoax. According to one source, he was from Germantown in Philadelphia, but most sources simply state that he appeared in Philadelphia with his machine. Redheffer disappeared from public view after the discovery of the fraud, and his fate is unknown.\n\nCharles Redheffer and his machine became well known in Philadelphia in 1812. Redheffer claimed he had invented a perpetual motion machine and exhibited it in a house near the Schuylkill River in the outskirts of the city. He charged an admission fee of $5 (some sources claim $1) for men to view it; depending on the source, women were admitted free or at a charge of $1. The machine caused a sensation, and Redheffer lobbied for funds to build a larger version.\n\nOn January 21, 1813, eight city commissioners visited Redheffer to inspect the machine. They had to do so through a barred window, as Redheffer was concerned anyone going near the machine might damage it. One of the inspectors, Nathan Sellers, was accompanied by his son Coleman, who noticed something odd about the gears. The machine itself was said to be powering a separate device through a series of gears and weights. Coleman noticed that the cogs were worn on the wrong side and suggested that the device was in fact powering the machine.\n\nThe elder Sellers was convinced the machine was a hoax. To validate his suspicions, he hired local engineer Isaiah Lukens to build a similar machine, using a hidden clockwork motor as a power source. They then arranged a demonstration of the machine to Redheffer, who was immediately convinced and offered to buy it. Meanwhile, Redheffer's machine appeared in the \"Philadelphia Gazette\". Civil engineer Charles Gobort offered to bet sums of money ranging from $6,000 to $10,000 that the machine was genuine, and that Redheffer had discovered perpetual motion.\n\nHis ruse revealed, Redheffer immediately departed for New York City where he was still unknown. He changed his machine somewhat so that it could not be detected as easily, and he exhibited it as he had done in Philadelphia.\n\nWhen mechanical engineer Robert Fulton went to see the machine, he noticed that the machine was unsteady as if someone were driving it manually and irregularly with a crank. Fulton also detected that the sound was uneven, uncharacteristic of a machine's motions. He announced the machine was a fraud, and challenged Redheffer exclaiming he would expose the secret power source, otherwise he would pay for all the damage he would cause. Redheffer agreed, so Fulton removed some boards from the wall alongside the machine and exposed a catgut cord that led to the upper floor. Upstairs he found an old man who was turning a hand-crank with one hand and eating bread with the other. Spectators realized they had been duped and destroyed the machine; Redheffer fled the city.\n\nRedheffer appears to have constructed another machine in 1816, which he stated his intention to demonstrate to a group of men including the mayor and chief justice of Philadelphia. However, despite several meetings, Redheffer refused to demonstrate the machine to them.\n\nOn July 11, 1820, the U.S. Patent Office granted a patent to Charles Redheffer (or Charles Redheiffer) for a device listed as \"machinery for the purpose of gaining power\". (Unfortunately, all patents up to 1836 were lost in the 1836 U.S. Patent Office fire. If recovered, it would be X-Patent X3,215.)\n\n"}
{"id": "13517898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13517898", "title": "Classical Athens", "text": "Classical Athens\n\nThe city of Athens (, \"Athênai\" ]; Modern Greek: Ἀθῆναι, \"Athínai\" ) during the classical period of Ancient Greece (508–322 BC) was the major urban center of the notable polis (city-state) of the same name, located in Attica, Greece, leading the Delian League in the Peloponnesian War against Sparta and the Peloponnesian League. Athenian democracy was established in 508 BC under Cleisthenes following the tyranny of Isagoras. This system remained remarkably stable, and with a few brief interruptions remained in place for 180 years, until 322 BC (aftermath of Lamian War). The peak of Athenian hegemony was achieved in the 440s to 430s BC, known as the Age of Pericles.\n\nIn the classical period, Athens was a center for the arts, learning and philosophy, home of Plato's Akademia and Aristotle's Lyceum, Athens was also the birthplace of Socrates, Plato, Pericles, Aristophanes, Sophocles, and many other prominent philosophers, writers and politicians of the ancient world. It is widely referred to as the cradle of Western Civilization, and the birthplace of democracy, largely due to the impact of its cultural and political achievements during the 5th and 4th centuries BC on the rest of the then-known European continent.\n\nHippias, son of Peisistratus, had ruled Athens jointly with his brother, Hipparchus, from the death of Peisistratus c527. Following the assassination of Hipparchus c514, Hippias took on sole rule, and in response to the loss of his brother, became a worse leader and increasingly disliked. Hippias exiled 700 of the Athenian noble families, amongst them Cleisthenes' family, the Alchmaeonids. Upon their exile, they went to Delphi, and Herodotus says they bribed the Pithia to always tell visiting Spartans that they should invade Attica and overthrow Hippias. This, supposedly, worked after a number of times, and Cleomenes led a Spartan force to overthrow Hippias, which succeeded, and instated an oligarchy. Cleisthenes disliked the Spartan rule, along with many other Athenians, and so made his own bid for power. The result of this was democracy in Athens, but considering Cleisthenes' motivation for using the people to gain power, as without their support, he would have been defeated, and so Athenian democracy may be tinted by the fact its creation served greatly the man who created it. The reforms of Cleisthenes replaced the traditional four Ionic \"tribes\" (phyle) with ten new ones, named after legendary heroes of Greece and having no class basis, which acted as electorates. Each tribe was in turn divided into three trittyes (one from the coast; one from the city and one from the inland divisions), while each trittys had one or more demes (see deme) – depending on their population – which became the basis of local government. The tribes each selected fifty members by lot for the Boule, the council which governed Athens on a day-to-day basis. The public opinion of voters could be influenced by the political satires written by the comic poets and performed in the city theaters. The Assembly or Ecclesia was open to all full citizens and was both a legislature and a supreme court, except in murder cases and religious matters, which became the only remaining functions of the Areopagus. Most offices were filled by lot, although the ten strategoi (generals) were elected.\n\nPrior to the rise of Athens, Sparta, a city-state with a militaristic culture, considered itself the leader of the Greeks, and enforced a hegemony. \n\nThe silver mines of Laurion contributed significantly to the development of Athens in the 5th century BC, when the Athenians learned to prospect, treat, and refine the ore and used the proceeds to build a massive fleet, at the instigation of Themistocles.\n\nIn 499 BC Athens sent troops to aid the Ionian Greeks of Asia Minor, who were rebelling against the Persian Empire (see Ionian Revolt). This provoked two Persian invasions of Greece, both of which were repelled under the leadership of the soldier-statesmen Miltiades and Themistocles (see Persian Wars). In 490 the Athenians, led by Miltiades, prevented the first invasion of the Persians, guided by king Darius I, at the Battle of Marathon. In 480 the Persians returned under a new ruler, Xerxes I. The Hellenic League led by the Spartan King Leonidas led 7,000 men to hold the narrow passageway of Thermopylae against the 100,000–250,000 army of Xerxes, during which time Leonidas and 300 other Spartan elites were killed. Simultaneously the Athenians led an indecisive naval battle off Artemisium. However, this delaying action was not enough to discourage the Persian advance which soon marched through Boeotia, setting up Thebes as their base of operations, and entered southern Greece. This forced the Athenians to evacuate Athens, which was taken by the Persians, and seek the protection of their fleet. Subsequently, the Athenians and their allies, led by Themistocles, defeated the Persian navy at sea in the Battle of Salamis. Xerxes had built himself a throne on the coast in order to see the Greeks defeated. Instead, the Persians were routed. Sparta's hegemony was passing to Athens, and it was Athens that took the war to Asia Minor. These victories enabled it to bring most of the Aegean and many other parts of Greece together in the Delian League, an Athenian-dominated alliance.\n\nPericles – an Athenian general, politician and orator – distinguished himself above the other personalities of the era, men who excelled in politics, philosophy, architecture, sculpture, history and literature. He fostered arts and literature and gave to Athens a splendor which would never return throughout its history. He executed a large number of public works projects and improved the life of the citizens. Hence, he gave his name to the Athenian Golden Age. Silver mined in Laurium in southeastern Attica contributed greatly to the prosperity of this \"Golden\" Age of Athens.\n\nDuring the time of the ascendancy of Ephialtes as leader of the democratic faction, Pericles was his deputy. When Ephialtes was assassinated by personal enemies, Pericles stepped in and was elected general, or \"strategos\", in 445 BC; a post he held continuously until his death in 429 BC, always by election of the Athenian Assembly. The Parthenon, a lavishly decorated temple to the goddess Athena, was constructed under the administration of Pericles.\n\nResentment by other cities at the hegemony of Athens led to the Peloponnesian War in 431, which pitted Athens and her increasingly rebellious sea empire against a coalition of land-based states led by Sparta. The conflict marked the end of Athenian command of the sea. The war between Athens and the city-state Sparta ended with an Athenian defeat after Sparta started its own navy.\n\nAthenian democracy was briefly overthrown by the coup of 411, brought about because of its poor handling of the war, but it was quickly restored. The war ended with the complete defeat of Athens in 404. Since the defeat was largely blamed on democratic politicians such as Cleon and Cleophon, there was a brief reaction against democracy, aided by the Spartan army (the rule of the Thirty Tyrants). In 403, democracy was restored by Thrasybulus and an amnesty declared.\n\nSparta's former allies soon turned against her due to her imperialist policies, and Athens's former enemies, Thebes and Corinth, became her allies. Argos, Thebes and Corinth, allied with Athens, fought against Sparta in the decisive Corinthian War of 395–387 BC. Opposition to Sparta enabled Athens to establish a Second Athenian League. Finally Thebes defeated Sparta in 371 in the Battle of Leuctra. However, other Greek cities, including Athens, turned against Thebes, and its dominance was brought to an end at the Battle of Mantinea (362 BC) with the death of its leader, the military genius Epaminondas.\n\nBy mid century, however, the northern Greek kingdom of Macedon was becoming dominant in Athenian affairs. In 338 BC the armies of Philip II defeated Athens at the Battle of Chaeronea, effectively limiting Athenian independence. During the winter of 338 BC /337 BC Macedonia, Athens and other Greek states became part of the League of Corinth. Further, the conquests of his son, Alexander the Great, widened Greek horizons and made the traditional Greek city state obsolete. Antipater dissolved the Athenian government and established a plutocratic system in 322 BC (see Lamian War and Demetrius Phalereus). \n\nIn the 2nd century BC, following the Battle of Corinth (146 BC), Greece was absorbed into the Roman Republic as part of the Achaea Province. Athens remained a wealthy city with a brilliant cultural life, but after the Siege of Athens and Piraeus (87–86 BC) by Sulla ceased to be an independent power.\n\nAthens was in Attica, about 30 stadia from the sea, on the southwest slope of Mount Lycabettus, between the small rivers Cephissus to the west, Ilissos to the south, and the Eridanos to the north, the latter of which flowed through the town. The walled city measured about in diameter, although at its peak the city had suburbs extending well beyond these walls. The Acropolis was just south of the centre of this walled area. The city was burnt by Xerxes in 480 BC, but was soon rebuilt under the administration of Themistocles, and was adorned with public buildings by Cimon and especially by Pericles, in whose time (461–429 BC) it reached its greatest splendour. Its beauty was chiefly due to its public buildings, for the private houses were mostly insignificant, and its streets badly laid out. Towards the end of the Peloponnesian War, it contained more than 10,000 houses, which at a rate of 12 inhabitants to a house would give a population of 120,000, though some writers make the inhabitants as many as 180,000. Athens consisted of two distinct parts:\n\nThe city was surrounded by defensive walls from the Bronze Age and they were rebuilt and extended over the centuries.\n\nIn addition the Long Walls consisted of two parallel walls leading to Piraeus, 40 stadia long (4.5 miles, 7 km), running parallel to each other, with a narrow passage between them and, furthermore, a wall to Phalerum on the east, 35 stadia long (4 miles, 6.5 km). There were therefore three long walls in all; but the name \"Long Walls\" seems to have been confined to the two leading to the Piraeus, while the one leading to Phalerum was called the \"Phalerian Wall\". The entire circuit of the walls was 174.5 stadia (nearly 22 miles, 35 km), of which 43 stadia (5.5 miles, 9 km) belonged to the city, 75 stadia (9.5 miles, 15 km) to the long walls, and 56.5 stadia (7 miles, 11 km) to Piraeus, Munichia, and Phalerum.\n\nThe Acropolis, also called \"Cecropia\" from its reputed founder, Cecrops, was a steep rock in the middle of the city, about 50 meters high, 350 meters long, and 150 meters wide; its sides were naturally scarped on all sides except the west end. It was originally surrounded by an ancient Cyclopean wall said to have been built by the Pelasgians. At the time of the Peloponnesian war only the north part of this wall remained, and this portion was still called the \"Pelasgic Wall\"; while the south part which had been rebuilt by Cimon, was called the \"Cimonian Wall\". On the west end of the Acropolis, where access is alone practicable, were the magnificent \"Propylaea\", \"the Entrances,\" built by Pericles, before the right wing of which was the small Temple of Athena Nike. The summit of the Acropolis was covered with temples, statues of bronze and marble, and various other works of art. Of the temples, the grandest was the \"Parthenon\", sacred to the \"Virgin\" goddess Athena; and north of the Parthenon was the magnificent \"Erechtheion\", containing three separate temples, one to \"Athena Polias\", or the \"Protectress of the State,\" the \"Erechtheion\" proper, or sanctuary of Erechtheus, and the \"Pandroseion\", or sanctuary of Pandrosos, the daughter of Cecrops. Between the Parthenon and Erechtheion was the colossal Statue of Athena Promachos, or the \"Fighter in the Front,\" whose helmet and spear was the first object on the Acropolis visible from the sea.\n\nThe lower city was built in the plain around the Acropolis, but this plain also contained several hills, especially in the southwest part. On the west side the walls embraced the Hill of the Nymphs and the Pnyx, and to the southeast they ran along beside the Ilissos.\n\nThere were many gates, among the more important there were:\n\n\n\nAmong the more important streets, there were:\n\n\n\n\n\nThe period from the end of the Persian Wars to the Macedonian conquest marked the zenith of Athens as a center of literature, philosophy (see Greek philosophy) and the arts (see Greek theatre). Some of the most important figures of Western cultural and intellectual history lived in Athens during this period: the dramatists Aeschylus, Aristophanes, Euripides and Sophocles, the philosophers Aristotle, Plato, and Socrates, the historians Herodotus, Thucydides and Xenophon, the poet Simonides and the sculptor Phidias. The leading statesman of this period was Pericles, who used the tribute paid by the members of the Delian League to build the Parthenon and other great monuments of classical Athens. The city became, in Pericles's words, an education for Hellas (usually quoted as \"the school of Hellas [Greece].\")\n"}
{"id": "1291858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1291858", "title": "Criticism of the Federal Reserve", "text": "Criticism of the Federal Reserve\n\nThe Federal Reserve System (also known as \"the Fed\") has faced various criticisms since it was authorized in 1913. Nobel laureate economist Milton Friedman and his fellow monetarist Anna Schwartz criticized the Fed's response to the Wall Street Crash of 1929 arguing that it greatly exacerbated the Great Depression. More recent prominent critics include former Congressman Ron Paul and economist Murray Rothbard, both of whom argue that the Fed exacerbates inflation by creating money \"out of thin air.\"\n\nAn early version of the Federal Reserve Act was drafted in 1910 on Jekyll Island, Georgia, by Republican Senator Nelson Aldrich, chairman of the National Monetary Commission, and several Wall Street bankers. The final version, with provisions intended to improve public oversight and weaken the influence of the New York banking establishment, was drafted by Democratic Congressman Carter Glass of Virginia. The structure of the Fed was a compromise between the desire of the bankers for a central bank under their control and the desire of President Woodrow Wilson to create a decentralized structure under public control. The Federal Reserve Act was approved by Congress and signed by President Wilson in December 1913.\n\nIn \"The Case Against the Fed\", Murray Rothbard argued that, although a supposed core function of the Federal Reserve is to maintain a low level of inflation, its policies (like those of other central banks) have actually aggravated inflation. This occurs when the Fed creates too much fiat money backed by nothing. He called the Fed policy of money creation \"legalized counterfeiting\" and favored a return to the gold standard. He wrote: \n\nSeveral members of Congress have criticized the Fed. Senator Robert Owen, whose name was on the Glass-Owen Federal Reserve Act, believed that the Fed was not performing as promised. He said: The Federal Reserve Board was created to control, regulate and stabilize credit in the interest of all people. . . . The Federal Reserve Board is the most gigantic financial power in all the world. Instead of using this great power as the Federal Reserve Act intended that it should, the board . . . delegated this power to the banks. \nRepresentative Louis T. McFadden, Chairman of the House Committee on Banking and Currency from 1920 to 1931, accused the Federal Reserve of deliberately causing the Great Depression. In several speeches made shortly after he lost the chairmanship of the committee, McFadden claimed that the Federal Reserve was run by Wall Street banks and their affiliated European banking houses. In one 1932 House speech (that has been criticized as bluster), he stated: \n\nMany members of Congress who have been involved in the House and Senate Banking and Currency Committees have been open critics of the Federal Reserve, including Chairmen Wright Patman, Henry Reuss, and Henry B. Gonzalez. Representative Ron Paul, Chairman of the Monetary Policy Subcommittee in 2011, is known as a staunch opponent of the Federal Reserve System. He routinely introduced bills to abolish the Federal Reserve System, three of which gained approval in the House but lost in the Senate.\n\nCongressman Paul also introduced H.R. 459: Federal Reserve Transparency Act of 2011, This act required an audit of the Federal Reserve Board and the twelve regional banks, with particular attention to the valuation of its securities. His son, Senator Rand Paul, has introduced similar legislation in subsequent sessions of Congress.\n\nMilton Friedman and Anna Schwartz stated that the Fed pursued an erroneously restrictive monetary policy, exacerbating the Great Depression. After the stock market crash in 1929, the Fed continued its contraction (decrease) of the money supply and refused to save banks that were struggling with bank runs. \nThis mistake, critics charge, allowed what might have been a relatively mild recession to explode into catastrophe. Friedman and Schwartz believed that the depression was \"a tragic testimonial to the importance of monetary forces.\"\nBefore the establishment of the Federal Reserve, the banking system had dealt with periodic crises (such as in the Panic of 1907) by suspending the convertibility of deposits into currency. In 1907, the system nearly collapsed and there was an extraordinary intervention by an ad-hoc coalition assembled by J. P. Morgan. In the years 1910–1913, the bankers demanded a central bank to address this structural weakness. Friedman suggested that a similar intervention should have been followed during the banking panic at the end of 1930. This might have stopped the vicious circle of forced liquidation of assets at depressed prices, just as suspension of convertibility in 1893 and 1907 had quickly ended the liquidity crises at the time. \n\nEssentially, in the monetarist view, the Great Depression was caused by the fall of the money supply. Friedman and Schwartz note that \"[f]rom the cyclical peak in August 1929 to a cyclical trough in March 1933, the stock of money fell by over a third.\" The result was what Friedman calls \"The Great Contraction\"—a period of falling income, prices, and employment caused by the choking effects of a restricted money supply. The mechanism suggested by Friedman and Schwartz was that people wanted to hold more money than the Federal Reserve was supplying. People thus hoarded money by consuming less. This, in turn, caused a contraction in employment and production, since prices were not flexible enough to immediately fall. Friedman and Schwartz argued the Federal Reserve allowed the money supply to plummet because of ineptitude and poor leadership.\n\nMany have since agreed with this theory, including Ben Bernanke, Chairman of the Federal Reserve from 2006 until 2014, who, in a speech honoring Friedman and Schwartz, said:\nFriedman has said that ideally he would prefer to \"abolish the Federal Reserve and replace it with a computer.\" He preferred a system that would increase the money supply at some fixed rate, and he thought that \"leaving monetary and banking arrangements to the market would have produced a more satisfactory outcome than was actually achieved through government involvement\".\n\nIn contrast to Friedman's argument that the Fed did too little to ease after the crisis, Murray Rothbard argued that the crisis was caused by the Fed being too loose in the 1920s in book \"America's Great Depression\".\n\nSome economists, such as John B. Taylor, have asserted that the Fed was responsible, or at least partially responsible, for the United States housing bubble which occurred prior to the 2007 recession. They claim that the Fed kept interest rates too low following the 2001 recession. The housing bubble then led to the credit crunch. Then-Chairman Alan Greenspan disputes this interpretation. He points out that the Fed's control over the long-term interest rates (to which critics refer) is only indirect. The Fed did raise the short-term interest rate over which it has control (i.e. the federal funds rate), but the long-term interest rate (which usually follows the former) did not increase.\n\nThe Federal Reserve's role as a supervisor and regulator has been criticized as being ineffective. Former U.S. Senator Chris Dodd, then-chairman of the United States Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, remarked about the Fed's role in the present economic crisis, \"We saw over the last number of years when they took on consumer protection responsibilities and the regulation of bank holding companies, it was an abysmal failure.\"\n\nDuring several recent elections, the Tea Party movement has made the Federal Reserve a major point of attack, which has been picked up by Republican candidates across the country. Former Congressman Ron Paul (R) of Texas and his son Senator Rand Paul (R) of Kentucky have long attacked the Fed, arguing that it is hurting the economy by devaluing the dollar. They argue that its monetary policies cause booms and busts when the Fed creates too much or too little fiat money. Ron Paul's book \"End the Fed\" repeatedly points out that the Fed engages in money creation \"out of thin air.\" He writes: \n\nHe also agrees with Friedman and Bernanke that the Fed caused the Great Depression, but in a different way: \n\nAccording to the Congressional Research Service:\n\nAccording to the web site for the Federal Reserve System, the individual Federal Reserve Banks \"are the operating arms of the central banking system, and they combine both public and private elements in their makeup and organization.\" Each bank has a nine-member board of directors: three elected by the commercial banks in the Bank's region, and six chosen – three each by the member banks and the Board of Governors – \"to represent the public with due consideration to the interests of agriculture, commerce, industry, services, labor and consumers.\" These regional banks are in turn controlled by the Federal Reserve Board of Governors, whose members are appointed by the President of the United States.\n\nMember banks (\"[a]bout 38 percent of the nation's more than 8,000 banks\") are required to own capital stock in their regional banks, and the regional banks pay a set 6% dividend on the member banks' paid-in capital stock (not the regional banks' profits) each year, returning the rest to the US Treasury Department. The Fed has noted that this has created \"some confusion about 'ownership'\":\n\nIn his textbook, \"Monetary Policy and the Financial System\", Paul M. Horvitz, the former Director of Research for the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, stated,\n\nIn the \"American Political Science Review\", Michael D. Reagan wrote,\n\nOne critique is that the Federal Open Market Committee, which is part of the Federal Reserve System, lacks transparency and is not sufficiently audited. A report by Bloomberg News asserts that the majority of Americans believes that the System should be held more accountable or that it should be abolished. Another critique is the contention that the public should have a right to know what goes on in the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meetings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11236587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11236587", "title": "Die Ermordung Cäsars", "text": "Die Ermordung Cäsars\n\nIt premiered on 20 September 1959 at the Grillo-Theater, Essen, with Gustav König conducting. It is dedicated to the German composer . The opera is scored for piccolo flute; soprano, alto, tenor and baritone saxophones; contrabassoon; bass trumpet; tenor tuba; timpani; piano; cellos; double basses; several tapes. A performance takes about 50 minutes.\n\n\nTime and Place: Ancient Rome, 15 March 44 BC (Ides of March)\n\n"}
{"id": "35903719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35903719", "title": "Disruptive physician", "text": "Disruptive physician\n\nA disruptive physician is a physician whose obnoxious behaviour upsets patients or other staff. The American Medical Association defines this in their code of medical ethics as \"personal conduct, whether verbal or physical, that negatively affects or that potentially may affect patient care\". These behaviors are also noted as causing adverse effects such as morale, focus and concentration, team work, collaboration and communication. Starting in 2009, The Joint Commission which accredits hospitals in the United States requires them to have a written code of conduct addressing this issue. This code of conduct defines acceptable, disruptive, and unacceptable behavior in the workplace. Along with these definitions of behaviors the Joint Commission also wrote ways to manage these behaviors in order to fix them.\n\nSimon Sebag Montefiore has reported a remarkable tendency for doctors to become tyrannical dictators. Historical examples include:\n\n\n\nJacob DeLaRosa. The Disruptive Physician, \"How to Manage the Consequences of Being You\" Misner & Monroe, New York 2017\n\n"}
{"id": "139993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=139993", "title": "Economic bubble", "text": "Economic bubble\n\nAn economic bubble or asset bubble (sometimes also referred to as a speculative bubble, a market bubble, a price bubble, a financial bubble, a speculative mania, or a balloon) is trade in an asset at a price or price range that strongly exceeds the asset's intrinsic value. It could also be described as a situation in which asset prices appear to be based on implausible or inconsistent views about the future. Asset bubbles date back as far as the 1600s and are now widely regarded as a recurrent feature of modern economic history. Historically, the Dutch Golden Age's tulip mania (in the mid-1630s) is often considered the first recorded economic bubble.\n\nBecause it is often difficult to observe intrinsic values in real-life markets, bubbles are often conclusively identified only in retrospect, once a sudden drop in prices has occurred. Such a drop is known as a \"crash\" or a \"bubble burst\". Both the boom and the burst phases of the bubble are examples of a positive feedback mechanism, in contrast to the negative feedback mechanism that determines the equilibrium price under normal market circumstances. Prices in an economic bubble can fluctuate erratically, and become impossible to predict from supply and demand alone.\n\nWhile some economists deny that bubbles occur, the cause(s) of bubbles remains disputed by those who are convinced that asset prices often deviate strongly from intrinsic values. Many explanations have been suggested, and research has recently shown that bubbles may appear even without uncertainty, speculation, or bounded rationality, in which case they can be called non-speculative bubbles or sunspot equilibria. In such cases, the bubbles may be argued to be rational, where investors at every point are fully compensated for the possibility that the bubble might collapse by higher returns. These approaches require that the timing of the bubble collapse can only be forecast probabilistically and the bubble process is often modelled using a Markov switching model. Similar explanations suggest that bubbles might ultimately be caused by processes of price coordination. \n\nMore recent theories of asset bubble formation suggest that these events are sociologically driven. For instance, explanations have focused on emerging social norms and the role that culturally-situated stories or narratives play in these events.\n\nThe term \"bubble\", in reference to financial crisis, originated in the 1711–1720 British South Sea Bubble, and originally referred to the companies themselves, and their inflated stock, rather than to the crisis itself. This was one of the earliest modern financial crises; other episodes were referred to as \"manias\", as in the Dutch tulip mania. The metaphor indicated that the prices of the stock were inflated and fragile – expanded based on nothing but air, and vulnerable to a sudden burst, as in fact occurred.\n\nSome later commentators have extended the metaphor to emphasize the suddenness, suggesting that economic bubbles end \"All at once, and nothing first, / Just as bubbles do when they burst,\" though theories of financial crises such as debt-deflation and the Financial Instability Hypothesis suggest instead that bubbles burst \"progressively,\" with the most vulnerable (most highly-leveraged) assets failing first, and then the collapse spreading throughout the economy.\n\nThe impact of economic bubbles is debated within and between schools of economic thought; they are not generally considered beneficial, but it is debated how harmful their formation and bursting is.\n\nWithin mainstream economics, many believe that bubbles cannot be identified in advance, cannot be prevented from forming, that attempts to \"prick\" the bubble may cause financial crisis, and that instead authorities should wait for bubbles to burst of their own accord, dealing with the aftermath via monetary policy and fiscal policy.\n\nPolitical economist Robert E. Wright argues that bubbles can be identified before the fact with high confidence.\n\nIn addition, the crash which usually follows an economic bubble can destroy a large amount of wealth and cause continuing economic malaise; this view is particularly associated with the debt-deflation theory of Irving Fisher, and elaborated within Post-Keynesian economics.\n\nA protracted period of low risk premiums can simply prolong the downturn in asset price deflation as was the case of the Great Depression in the 1930s for much of the world and the 1990s for Japan. Not only can the aftermath of a crash devastate the economy of a nation, but its effects can also reverberate beyond its borders.\n\nAnother important aspect of economic bubbles is their impact on spending habits. Market participants with overvalued assets tend to spend more because they \"feel\" richer (the wealth effect). Many observers quote the housing market in the United Kingdom, Australia, New Zealand, Spain and parts of the United States in recent times, as an example of this effect. When the bubble inevitably bursts, those who hold on to these overvalued assets usually experience a feeling of reduced wealth and tend to cut discretionary spending at the same time, hindering economic growth or, worse, exacerbating the economic slowdown.\n\nIn an economy with a central bank, the bank may therefore attempt to keep an eye on asset price appreciation and take measures to curb high levels of speculative activity in financial assets. This is usually done by increasing the interest rate (that is, the cost of borrowing money). (Historically, this is not the only approach taken by central banks. It has been argued that they should stay out of it and let the bubble, if it is one, take its course.)\n\nIn the 1970s, excess monetary expansion after the U.S. came off the gold standard (August 1971) created massive commodities bubbles. These bubbles only ended when the U.S. Central Bank (Federal Reserve) finally reined in the excess money, raising federal funds interest rates to over 14%. The commodities bubble popped and prices of oil and gold, for instance, came down to their proper levels. Similarly, low interest rate policies by the U.S. Federal Reserve in the 2001–2004 are believed to have exacerbated housing and commodities bubbles. The housing bubble popped as subprime mortgages began to default at much higher rates than expected, which also coincided with the rising of the fed funds rate.\n\nIt has also been variously suggested that bubbles may be rational, intrinsic, and contagious. To date, there is no widely accepted theory to explain their occurrence. Recent computer-generated agency models suggest excessive leverage could be a key factor in causing financial bubbles.\n\nPuzzlingly for some, bubbles occur even in highly predictable experimental markets, where uncertainty is eliminated and market participants should be able to calculate the intrinsic value of the assets simply by examining the expected stream of dividends. Nevertheless, bubbles have been observed repeatedly in experimental markets, even with participants such as business students, managers, and professional traders. Experimental bubbles have proven robust to a variety of conditions, including short-selling, margin buying, and insider trading.\n\nWhile there is no clear agreement on what causes bubbles, there is evidence to suggest that they are not caused by bounded rationality or assumptions about the irrationality of others, as assumed by greater fool theory. It has also been shown that bubbles appear even when market participants are well-capable of pricing assets correctly. Further, it has been shown that bubbles appear even when speculation is not possible or when over-confidence is absent.\n\nMore recent theories of asset bubble formation suggest that they are likely sociologically-driven events, thus explanations that merely involve fundamental factors or snippets of human behavior are incomplete at best. For instance, qualitative researchers Preston Teeter and Jorgen Sandberg argue that market speculation is driven by culturally-situated narratives that are deeply embedded in and supported by the prevailing institutions of the time. They cite factors such as bubbles forming during periods of innovation, easy credit, loose regulations, and internationalized investment as reasons why narratives play such an influential role in the growth of asset bubbles. \n\nOne possible cause of bubbles is excessive monetary liquidity in the financial system, inducing lax or inappropriate lending standards by the banks, which makes markets vulnerable to volatile asset price inflation caused by short-term, leveraged speculation. For example, Axel A. Weber, the former president of the Deutsche Bundesbank, has argued that \"The past has shown that an overly generous provision of liquidity in global financial markets in connection with a very low level of interest rates promotes the formation of asset-price bubbles.\"\n\nAccording to the explanation, excessive monetary liquidity (easy credit, large disposable incomes) potentially occurs while fractional reserve banks are implementing expansionary monetary policy (i.e. lowering of interest rates and flushing the financial system with money supply); this explanation may differ in certain details according to economic philosophy. Those who believe the money supply is controlled exogenously by a central bank may attribute an 'expansionary monetary policy' to said bank and (should one exist) a governing body or institution; others who believe that the money supply is created endogenously by the banking sector may attribute such a 'policy' with the behavior of the financial sector itself, and view the state as a passive or reactive factor. This may determine how central or relatively minor/inconsequential policies like fractional reserve banking and the central bank's efforts to raise or lower short-term interest rates are to one's view on the creation, inflation and ultimate implosion of an economic bubble. Explanations focusing on interest rates tend to take on a common form, however: When interest rates are set excessively low, (regardless of the mechanism by which it is accomplished) investors tend to avoid putting their capital into savings accounts. Instead, investors tend to leverage their capital by borrowing from banks and invest the leveraged capital in financial assets such as stocks and real estate. Risky leveraged behavior like speculation and Ponzi schemes can lead to an increasingly fragile economy, and may also be part of what pushes asset prices artificially upward until the bubble pops.\n\nSimply put, economic bubbles often occur when too much money is chasing too few assets, causing both good assets and bad assets to appreciate excessively beyond their fundamentals to an unsustainable level. Once the bubble bursts, the fall in prices causes the collapse of unsustainable investment schemes (especially speculative and/or Ponzi investments, but not exclusively so), which leads to a crisis of consumer (and investor) confidence that may result in a financial panic and/or financial crisis; if there is monetary authority like a central bank, it may be forced to take a number of measures in order to soak up the liquidity in the financial system or risk a collapse of its currency. This may involve actions like bailouts of the financial system, but also others that reverse the trend of monetary accommodation, commonly termed forms of 'contractionary monetary policy'.\n\nSome of these measures may include raising interest rates, which tends to make investors become more risk averse and thus avoid leveraged capital because the costs of borrowing may become too expensive; others may include certain countermeasures that may be taken pre-emptively during periods of strong economic growth include having the central monetary authority increase capital reserve requirements and attempting to implement regulation that checks and/or prevents processes leading to over-expansion and excessive leveraging of debt. Ideally, such countermeasures lessen the impact of a downturn by strengthening financial institutions while the economy is strong.\n\nAdvocates of perspectives stressing the role of credit money in an economy often refer to (such) bubbles as \"credit bubbles,\" and look at such measures of financial leverage as debt-to-GDP ratios to identify bubbles. Typically the collapse of any economic bubble results in an economic contraction termed (if less severe) a recession or (if more severe) a depression; what economic policies to follow in reaction to such a contraction is a hotly debated perennial topic of political economy.\n\nThe importance of liquidity was derived in a mathematical setting and in an experimental setting (see Section \"Experimental and mathematical economics\").\n\nGreater fool theory states that bubbles are driven by the behavior of perennially optimistic market participants (the fools) who buy overvalued assets in anticipation of selling it to other speculators (the greater fools) at a much higher price. According to this explanation, the bubbles continue as long as the fools can find greater fools to pay up for the overvalued asset. The bubbles will end only when the greater fool becomes the greatest fool who pays the top price for the overvalued asset and can no longer find another buyer to pay for it at a higher price. This theory is popular among laity but has not yet been fully confirmed by empirical research.\n\nExtrapolation is projecting historical data into the future on the same basis; if prices have risen at a certain rate in the past, they will continue to rise at that rate forever. The argument is that investors tend to extrapolate past extraordinary returns on investment of certain assets into the future, causing them to overbid those risky assets in order to attempt to continue to capture those same rates of return.\n\nOverbidding on certain assets will at some point result in uneconomic rates of return for investors; only then the asset price deflation will begin. When investors feel that they are no longer well compensated for holding those risky assets, they will start to demand higher rates of return on their investments.\n\nAnother related explanation used in behavioral finance lies in herd behavior, the fact that investors tend to buy or sell in the direction of the market trend. This is sometimes helped by technical analysis that tries precisely to detect those trends and follow them, which creates a self-fulfilling prophecy.\n\nInvestment managers, such as stock mutual fund managers, are compensated and retained in part due to their performance relative to peers. Taking a conservative or contrarian position as a bubble builds results in performance unfavorable to peers. This may cause customers to go elsewhere and can affect the investment manager's own employment or compensation. The typical short-term focus of U.S. equity markets exacerbates the risk for investment managers that do not participate during the building phase of a bubble, particularly one that builds over a longer period of time. In attempting to maximize returns for clients and maintain their employment, they may rationally participate in a bubble they believe to be forming, as the risks of not doing so outweigh the benefits.\n\nMoral hazard is the prospect that a party insulated from risk may behave differently from the way it would behave if it were fully exposed to the risk. A person's belief that they are responsible for the consequences of their own actions is an essential aspect of rational behavior. An investor must balance the possibility of making a return on their investment with the risk of making a loss – the risk-return relationship. A moral hazard can occur when this relationship is interfered with, often via government policy.\n\nA recent example is the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP), signed into law by U.S. President George W. Bush on 3 October 2008 to provide a Government bailout for many financial and non-financial institutions who speculated in high-risk financial instruments during the housing boom condemned by a 2005 story in \"The Economist\" titled \"The worldwide rise in house prices is the biggest bubble in history\". A historical example was intervention by the Dutch Parliament during the great Tulip Mania of 1637.\n\nOther causes of perceived insulation from risk may derive from a given entity's predominance in a market relative to other players, and not from state intervention or market regulation. A firm – or several large firms acting in concert (see cartel, oligopoly and collusion) – with very large holdings and capital reserves could instigate a market bubble by investing heavily in a given asset, creating a relative scarcity which drives up that asset's price. Because of the signaling power of the large firm or group of colluding firms, the firm's smaller competitors will follow suit, similarly investing in the asset due to its price gains.\n\nHowever, in relation to the party instigating the bubble, these smaller competitors are insufficiently leveraged to withstand a similarly rapid decline in the asset’s price. When the large firm, cartel or \"de facto\" collusive body perceives a maximal peak has been reached in the traded asset's price, it can then proceed to rapidly sell or \"dump\" its holdings of this asset on the market, precipitating a price decline that forces its competitors into insolvency, bankruptcy or foreclosure.\n\nThe large firm or cartel – which has intentionally leveraged itself to withstand the price decline it engineered – can then acquire the capital of its failing or devalued competitors at a low price as well as capture a greater market share (e.g., via a merger or acquisition which expands the dominant firm's distribution chain). If the bubble-instigating party is itself a lending institution, it can combine its knowledge of its borrowers’ leveraging positions with publicly available information on their stock holdings, and strategically shield or expose them to default.\n\nSome regard bubbles as related to inflation and thus believe that the causes of inflation are also the causes of bubbles. Others take the view that there is a \"fundamental value\" to an asset, and that bubbles represent a rise over that fundamental value, which must eventually return to that fundamental value. There are chaotic theories of bubbles which assert that bubbles come from particular \"critical\" states in the market based on the communication of economic factors. Finally, others regard bubbles as necessary consequences of irrationally valuing assets solely based upon their returns in the recent past without resorting to a rigorous analysis based on their underlying \"fundamentals\".\n\nBubbles in financial markets have been studied not only through historical evidence, but also through experiments, mathematical and statistical works. Smith, Suchanek and Williams designed a set of experiments in which an asset that gave a dividend with expected value 24 cents at the end of each of 15 periods (and were subsequently worthless) was traded through a computer network. Classical economics would predict that the asset would start trading near $3.60 (15 times $0.24) and decline by 24 cents each period. They found instead that prices started well below this fundamental value and rose far above the expected return in dividends. The bubble subsequently crashed before the end of the experiment. This laboratory bubble has been repeated hundreds of times in many economics laboratories in the world, with similar results.\n\nThe existence of bubbles and crashes in such a simple context was unsettling for the economics community that tried to resolve the paradox on various features of the experiments. To address these issues Porter and Smith and others performed a series of experiments in which short selling, margin trading, professional traders all led to bubbles a fortiori.\n\nMuch of the puzzle has been resolved through mathematical modeling and additional experiments. In particular, starting in 1989, Gunduz Caginalp and collaborators modeled the trading with two concepts that are generally missing in classical economics and finance. First, they assumed that supply and demand of an asset depended not only on valuation, but on factors such as the price trend. Second, they assumed that the available cash and asset are finite (as they are in the laboratory). This is contrary to the “infinite arbitrage” that is generally assumed to exist, and to eliminate deviations from fundamental value. Utilizing these assumptions together with differential equations, they predicted the following: (a) The bubble would be larger if there was initial undervaluation. Initially, “value-based” traders would buy the undervalued asset creating an uptrend, which would then attract the “momentum” traders and a bubble would be created. (b) When the initial ratio of cash to asset value in a given experiment was increased, they predicted that the bubble would be larger.\n\nAn epistemological difference between most microeconomic modeling and these works is that the latter offer an opportunity to test implications of their theory in a quantitative manner. This opens up the possibility of comparison between experiments and world markets.\n\nThese predictions were confirmed in experiments that showed the importance of “excess cash” (also called liquidity, though this term has other meanings), and trend-based investing in creating bubbles. When price collars were used to keep prices low in the initial time periods, the bubble became larger. In experiments in which L= (total cash)/(total initial value of asset) were doubled, the price at the peak of the bubble nearly doubled. This provided valuable evidence for the argument that “cheap money fuels markets.”\n\nCaginalp's asset flow differential equations provide a link between the laboratory experiments and world market data. Since the parameters can be calibrated with either market, one can compare the lab data with the world market data.\n\nThe asset flow equations stipulate that price trend is a factor in the supply and demand for an asset that is a key ingredient in the formation of a bubble. While many studies of market data have shown a rather minimal trend effect, the work of Caginalp and DeSantis on large scale data adjusts for changes in valuation, thereby illuminating a strong role for trend, and providing the empirical justification for the modeling.\n\nThe asset flow equations have been used to study the formation of bubbles from a different standpoint in where it was shown that a stable equilibrium could become unstable with the influx of additional cash or the change to a shorter time scale on the part of the momentum investors. Thus a stable equilibrium could be pushed into an unstable one, leading to a trajectory in price that exhibits a large “excursion” from either the initial stable point or the final stable point. This phenomenon on a short time scale may be the explanation for flash crashes.\n\nAccording to the economist Charles P. Kindleberger, the basic structure of a speculative bubble can be divided into 5 phases:\n\nEconomic or asset price bubbles are often characterized by one or more of the following:\n<br>\n\n\nOther goods which have produced bubbles include: postage stamps and coin collecting.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15106382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15106382", "title": "Egyptian raid on Larnaca International Airport", "text": "Egyptian raid on Larnaca International Airport\n\nOn 19 February 1978, Egyptian special forces raided Larnaca International Airport near Larnaca, Cyprus, in an attempt to intervene in a hijacking. Earlier, two assassins had killed prominent Egyptian newspaper editor Yusuf Sibai and then rounded up as hostages several Arabs who were attending a convention in Nicosia. As Cypriot forces were trying to negotiate with the hostage-takers at the airport, Egyptian troops launched their own assault without authorization from the Cypriots. The unauthorized raid led to the Egyptians and the Cypriots exchanging gunfire, killing or injuring more than 20 of the Egyptian commandos. As a result, Egypt and Cyprus severed political ties for several years after the incident.\n\nIn the late hours of 18 February 1978, Yusuf Sibai, editor of a prominent Egyptian newspaper and a friend of the Egyptian President, Anwar Sadat, was assassinated by two gunmen at a convention being held at the Nicosia Hilton. The two assassins rounded up 16 Arab convention delegates as hostages (among them, two P.L.O. representatives and one Egyptian national) and demanded transportation to Larnaca International Airport. They also demanded and were supplied with a Cyprus Airways DC-8 aircraft. Following negotiations with the Cypriot authorities, the hijackers were allowed to fly the aircraft out of Cyprus with 11 hostages and four crew members. The aircraft, however, was denied permission to land in Djibouti, Syria and Saudi Arabia and was forced to return and land in Cyprus a few hours later.\n\nAccording to a report in \"Time\" magazine, Sadat was aggrieved by the assassination of his personal friend and begged the Cypriot President, Spyros Kyprianou to rescue the hostages and extradite the terrorists to Cairo. The Cypriot President responded by promising to oversee the rescue operation and any negotiations personally, and travelled to the airport himself. According to the same report however, Sadat dispatched an elite antiterrorism unit (Task Force 777) to Cyprus aboard a C-130 Hercules transport aircraft. Cairo merely informed Kyprianou that \"people are on the way to help rescue the hostages\" and did not reveal who was on board nor what their intentions were. Upon landing in Cyprus, the Egyptian force immediately launched an all out assault, dispatching a single Jeep all-terrain vehicle with three men to race ahead of an estimated 58 troops (another report has this figure at 74) moving towards the hijacked aircraft on foot.\n\nAs the Egyptian troops advanced quickly towards the hijacked DC-8 aircraft and the Cypriot National Guard forces who surrounded it, the Cypriot forces reportedly issued a single verbal warning to halt and submit, though in other reports, the Cypriots issued two verbal warnings, the second a demand for the Egyptians to return to their aircraft. As this occurred, the occupants of the Jeep and the Cypriot National Guardsmen exchanged gunfire, and the Egyptian Jeep was struck by a rocket propelled grenade (RPG), as well as gunfire, killing all three occupants. As the vehicle came to a halt, the Cypriots and the main Egyptian force confronted each other at a range of less than , and it is variously reported that the Egyptians, who lacked any form of cover, dropped down onto the tarmac in prone firing positions. At this moment, the two forces engaged each other with heavy gunfire, and the Cypriots opened fire on the Egyptian C-130H aircraft with a 106 mm anti-tank missile, striking it in the nose and killing all three crew on board.\n\nWith their aircraft destroyed, the Egyptian force and the Cypriot National Guard exchanged heavy gunfire for nearly an hour in sporadic fighting on the open tarmac. Some of the Egyptian troops took cover in a nearby empty Air France aircraft.\n\nCypriot President Spyros Kyprianou, who was watching the events unfolding from the airport control tower, was forced to withdraw from the windows and take cover as Egyptian commandos struck the tower with automatic gunfire.\n\nOf the Egyptian commando force, 15 men were killed, in addition to three crew of the C-130H Hercules transport aircraft who were killed when it was struck by a missile. An estimated 15 more Egyptian commandos were reported to have been taken injured to Larnaca General Hospital with gunshot wounds.\n\nFollowing the assault, it emerged that the surrender of the two hostage-takers had already been secured at the time of the failed Egyptian attack, and the two men were taken prisoner by the Cypriots and later extradited to Egypt, where they received death sentences, later commuted to life sentences.\n\nOn 20 February, Egypt recalled its diplomatic mission and requested the Cyprus government to do the same in Cairo. Cyprus requested the withdrawal of Egypt's military attaché.\nEgypt and Cyprus severed political ties for several years after the incident, until President Anwar Sadat was assassinated in 1981. \nPresident Kyprianou offered reconciliation and apologies but maintained that Cyprus could not have allowed the Egyptians to act. Other Arab countries such as Syria and Libya denounced Egypt's action.\n\n"}
{"id": "36549182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36549182", "title": "El Tunari", "text": "El Tunari\n\nEl Tunari is a weekly newspaper published in Quillacollo, Bolivia. The newspaper began publication on 26 February 2011.\n"}
{"id": "31859643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31859643", "title": "Fraser Barron", "text": "Fraser Barron\n\nJames 'Fraser' Barron DSO & Bar, DFC, DFM (9 January 1921 – 20 May 1944), was an officer of the Royal New Zealand Air Force (RNZAF) who was killed in flying operations during the Second World War. Barron was one of only four New Zealanders to be awarded a bar to his DSO and was considered a standout bomber pilot of the war.\n\nBarron was born on 9 January 1921 in Dunedin, New Zealand. An average student, he was educated at a primary school in Oamaru and then Waitaki Boys' High School. In 1939, he was working in Wellington as a cadet in the Mines Department.\n\nBarron enlisted in the RNZAF in June 1940 and commenced training early the following month. He went through training at Taieri and Wigram with Jimmy Ward, who was to win the Victoria Cross. Barron and Ward sailed together on the \"Aorangi\" in January 1941 and were both stationed at 20 OTU Lossiemouth, in Scotland.\n\nAfter leaving 20 OTC, where Barron and his crew survived a ditching in a Vickers Wellington, he was posted to 15 Squadron stationed at RAF Wyton flying Short Stirlings. Through late 1941 and early 1942, Barron was quickly promoted to flight sergeant and then pilot officer. In May 1942, after 42 operations including the thousand bomber raids on Cologne and Essen, he won his first decoration, the Distinguished Flying Medal. The citation read in part that Barron had completed many operational flights as captain of aircraft and proved most reliable, efficient and courageous in pressing home attacks regardless of opposition.\n\nPosted to No.1651 Conversion Unit at Waterbeach as an instructor, Barron preferred operational flying and in September 1942, he joined 7 Squadron, a founding pathfinder unit. Barron would fly 16 sorties on this tour, during which he was promoted to flight lieutenant, followed in December 1942 by the award of his Path Finder Force badge. At the end of his tour in February 1943, Barron was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross for \"courage, skill and determination\". A fortnight later he was awarded his first Distinguished Service Order for \"exceptional gallantry and devotion to duty\". Promotions also quickly followed, to flight lieutenant (skipping the rank of flying officer) and squadron leader, the latter when he was at No.11 OTU after finishing his second tour, by order of RAF Bomber Command headquarters.\n\nTiring of the training environment, Barron eventually persuaded the group captain to approve his return to operations. Barron rejoined the now Lancaster equipped 7 Squadron in December 1943 and took part in several sorties including on the night of 19/20 February 1944, the Leipzig raid, during which the Royal Air Force lost 78 bombers. He was promoted to wing commander in February 1944 and on 28 April was appointed commanding officer 7 Squadron. Barron and his crew were now often used as Master Bomber to control bomber attacks and for one such attack on Nantes on 7 May 1944, he was awarded the Distinguished Service Order (DSO). His citation read in part; This officer was captain of an aircraft detailed to attack Cologne. When nearing the target area his aircraft was held in a cone of searchlights and subjected to heavy fire from ground defences. Despite this, Flight Lieutenant Barron remained on his course, defying an intense and concentrated barrage and pressed home a successful attack on his second run over the target.\n\nBarron was awarded a Bar to his DSO on 16 June 1944; his citation read:\n\nOn the night of 19/20 May 1944, while acting as master bomber (his 79th sortie in all), Barron was directing an attack on railway yards at Le Mans, France. What exactly happened is debated, but a collision with his deputy's aircraft is considered the most likely event. The 15 men on the two 7 Squadron aircraft were all killed. Barron was buried at Le Mans West Cemetery; he was 23 years old. Barron was one of only four New Zealanders to be awarded a bar to his DSO and was considered an outstanding bomber pilot of the war.\n\n"}
{"id": "277285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=277285", "title": "French frigate Méduse (1810)", "text": "French frigate Méduse (1810)\n\nMéduse was a 40-gun \"Pallas\"-class frigate of the French Navy, launched in 1810. She took part in the Napoleonic Wars, namely in the late stages of the Mauritius campaign of 1809–1811 and in raids in the Caribbean.\n\nIn 1816, following the Bourbon Restoration, \"Méduse\" was armed en flûte to ferry French officials to the port of Saint-Louis, in Senegal, to formally re-establish French occupation of the colony under the terms of the First Peace of Paris. Through inept navigation by her captain, an émigré given command for political reasons but incompetent as a naval officer, \"Méduse\" struck the Bank of Arguin off the coast of present-day Mauritania and became a total loss.\n\nMost of the 400 passengers on board evacuated, with 151 men forced to take refuge on an improvised raft towed by the frigate's launches. The towing proved impractical, however, and the boats soon abandoned the raft and its passengers in the open ocean. Without any means of navigating to shore, the situation aboard the raft rapidly turned disastrous. Dozens were washed into the sea by a storm, while others, drunk from wine, rebelled and were killed by officers. When supplies ran low, several injured men were thrown into the sea, and some of the survivors resorted to cannibalism. After 13 days at sea, the raft was discovered with only 15 men still alive.\n\nNews of the tragedy stirred considerable public emotion, making \"Méduse\" one of the most infamous shipwrecks of the Age of Sail. Two survivors, a surgeon and an officer, wrote a widely read book about the incident, and the episode was immortalised when Théodore Géricault painted \"The Raft of the Medusa\", which became an iconic artwork of French Romanticism.\n\n\"Méduse\" was commissioned in Nantes on 26 September 1807.\n\nIn 1811, she was sent off to Java with \"Nymphe\", in a frigate division under the command of Joseph-François Raoul. On 2 September, the frigates arrived at Surabaya, tailed by the 32-gun frigate . Two days later, another British ship, , joined the chase, but lost contact on 8 September. On 12 September, \"Méduse\" and \"Nymphe\" chased \"Bucephalus\", which escaped and broke contact the next day. \"Méduse\" was back in Brest on 22 December 1811. She then served in the Atlantic, and in 1814, she was part of the fleet sent to retake Guadeloupe in the Caribbean.\n\nWith the restoration of the French monarchy in 1814, Louis XVIII decided to restore Royalist dominance of the senior ranks of both the French Navy and Army. Consequently, Viscount Hugues Duroy de Chaumareys was appointed \"Capitaine de frégate\" and given command of the \"Méduse\", even though he had hardly sailed in 20 years.\n\nOn 17 June 1816, a convoy under the command of Chaumareys on \"Méduse\" departed Rochefort accompanied by the storeship \"Loire\", the brig \"Argus\" and the corvette \"Écho\" to receive the British handover of the port of Saint-Louis in Senegal. \"Méduse\", armed en flûte, carried many passengers, including the appointed French governor of Senegal, Colonel Julien-Désiré Schmaltz, his wife Reine Schmaltz, and his secretary, Joseph Jean-Baptiste Alexandre Griffon du Bellay. \"Méduse\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s complement totaled 400, including 160 crew plus a contingent of marine infantrymen intended to serve as the garrison of Saint-Louis. The ship reached the island of Madeira on 27 June.\n\nSchmaltz then wanted to reach Saint-Louis as fast as possible, by the most direct route, though this would take the fleet dangerously close to the shore, where there were many sandbars and reefs. Experienced crews sailed further out. \"Méduse\" was the fastest of the convoy and, disregarding his orders, Captain Chaumareys quickly lost contact with \"Loire\" and \"Argus\". \"Écho\" kept pace and attempted to guide \"Méduse\", but to no avail. \"Écho\" then prudently moved further out to sea.\n\nChaumareys had decided to involve one of the passengers, Richefort, in the navigation of the frigate. Richefort was a philosopher and a member of the Philanthropic Society of Cape Verde, but had no qualification to guide ships. As she closed on the coast of Africa, the course of \"Méduse\" became dangerous. Richefort apparently mistook a large cloud bank on the horizon for Cape Blanco on the African coast, and so underestimated the proximity of the Bank of Arguin off the coast of Mauritania.\n\nOn 2 July 1816, now more than off course, \"Méduse\" ran into increasingly shallow water, with both Chaumareys and Richefort ignoring signs such as white breakers and mud in the water. Eventually, Lieutenant Maudet took it upon himself to start taking soundings off the bow, and, measuring only , warned his captain. Realising the danger at last, Chaumareys ordered the ship brought up into the wind, but it was too late, and \"Méduse\" ran aground from the coast. The accident occurred at a spring high tide, which made it difficult to re-float the frigate. The captain refused to jettison the 14 three-tonne cannons and so the ship settled into the bank.\n\nThe \"Méduse\" was not carrying enough lifeboats to transport all of the passengers to safety in a single trip. Plans were proposed to use the ship's launches to ferry the passengers and crew to shore, just away, which was expected to require at least two boat trips. Numerous ideas for lightening \"Méduse\" and immediately coming off the reef were also proposed, in particular that of building a raft on to which the crew could unload her cargo.\n\nA raft measuring long and wide was soon constructed with wood salvaged from the wreck, and was nicknamed \"la Machine\" by the crew. On 5 July, a gale developed and \"Méduse\" showed signs of breaking up. The passengers and crew panicked, and Chaumareys decided to evacuate the frigate immediately, leaving no time to enact the original plan of making multiple ferry trips to shore. Instead, it was suggested that the raft could be used to carry passengers and \"Méduse\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s longboats could tow the raft to safety; 146 men and one woman boarded the woefully unstable raft. The raft had few supplies and no means of steering or navigation. Much of its deck was underwater. Seventeen men decided to stay with the disabled \"Méduse\", and the rest boarded the ship's longboats.\n\nThe crews of the boats soon realised that towing the raft was impractical and began to fear being overwhelmed by the desperate survivors aboard the raft. After traveling only a few kilometers, it was decided that the tow ropes should be cut, leaving the raft and its occupants to their fate. The lifeboats, with the captain and Governor Schmaltz aboard, sailed away to safety. Some landed immediately on the coast of Africa, with most of the survivors making their way overland to Senegal, though some died on the way.\n\nOn the raft, the situation deteriorated rapidly. Among the provisions were casks of wine instead of water. Fights broke out between the officers and passengers on one hand, and the sailors and soldiers on the other. On the first night adrift, 20 men were killed or committed suicide. Stormy weather threatened, and only the center of the raft was secure. Dozens died either in fighting to get to the center or because they were washed overboard by the waves. Rations dwindled rapidly; by the fourth day there were only 67 people left alive on the raft, and some resorted to cannibalism to survive. On the eighth day, the fittest decided to throw the weak and wounded overboard, leaving just 15 men remaining, all of whom survived another four days until their rescue on 17 July by the brig \"Argus\", which accidentally encountered them.\n\n\"Argus\" took the survivors of the raft to Saint-Louis to recover. Five of them, including Jean Charles, the last African crew member, died within days. Chaumareys decided to rescue the gold that was still on board \"Méduse\" and sent out a salvage crew, which discovered that the \"Méduse\" was still largely intact. Only three of the 17 men who had decided to stay on the \"Méduse\" were still alive 54 days later. British naval officers helped the survivors to return to France because aid from the French Minister of the Marine was not forthcoming.\n\n\"Méduse\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s surviving surgeon, Henri Savigny, and the governor's secretary submitted their account of the tragedy to the authorities. It was leaked to an anti-Bourbon newspaper, the \"Journal des débats\", and was published on 13 September 1816. The incident quickly became a scandal in French politics and Bourbon officials tried to cover it up. At his court-martial at Port de Rochefort in 1817, Chaumareys was tried on five counts but acquitted of abandoning his squadron, of failing to re-float his ship and of abandoning the raft; however, he was found guilty of incompetent and complacent navigation and of abandoning the \"Méduse\" before all her passengers had been taken off. Even though this verdict exposed him to the death penalty, Chaumareys was sentenced to only three years in jail. The court-martial was widely thought to be a \"whitewash\" and, in 1818, Senegal Governor Schmaltz was forced to resign. The Gouvion de Saint-Cyr Law later ensured that promotions in the French military would thereafter be based on merit.\n\nSavigny and another survivor, the geographer-engineer Alexandre Corréard, subsequently wrote a book with their own account (\"Naufrage de la frégate la Méduse\") of the incident, published in 1817. It went through five editions by 1821 and was also published with success in English, German, Dutch and Italian translations. A revision of the text in later editions increased the political thrust of the work.\n\nIn 1980, a French marine archaeological expedition led by Jean-Yves Blot located the \"Méduse\" shipwreck site off the coast of modern-day Mauritania. The team operated out of the port city of Nouadhibou, approximately north of the wreck site, and used four sailboats as the expedition's working vessels. The primary search tool was a one-of-a-kind magnetometer developed by the CEA.\n\nThe search area was defined on the basis of the accounts of survivors of \"Méduse\" and, more importantly, on the records of an 1817 French coastal mapping expedition that found the vessel's remains still projecting above the waves. The background research proved to be so good that the expedition team located the shipwreck site on the very first day of searching. They then recovered enough artifacts to identify the wreck positively and to mount an exhibit in the Marine Museum in Paris.\n\nImpressed by accounts of the shipwreck, the 25-year-old artist Théodore Géricault decided to create an oil painting based on the incident and contacted the writers in 1818. His work depicts a moment recounted by one of the survivors: prior to their rescue, the passengers saw a ship on the horizon, which they tried to signal. She disappeared, and in the words of one of the surviving crew members, \"From the delirium of joy, we fell into profound despondency and grief\". The ship \"Argus\" reappeared two hours later and rescued those who remained. The painting, titled \"Le Radeau de la Méduse\" (English: \"The Raft of the Medusa\"), is considered an iconic work of the French Romantic movement and Géricault's masterpiece. It is on display in the Louvre.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n Contains \"The sufferings of the Picard family after the shipwreck of the Medusa, in the year 1816\" by , Charlotte-Adélaïde Dard and Jean Godin des Odonais\n"}
{"id": "42625012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42625012", "title": "Global Corruption Barometer", "text": "Global Corruption Barometer\n\nThe Global Corruption Barometer published by Transparency International is the largest survey in the world tracking public opinion on corruption. It surveys 114,000 people in 107 countries on their view of corruption.\n\nPeople in 95 countries have been surveyed whether they have paid a bribe to a public body during the last year; for a small number of countries, including Brazil and Russia, data on particular questions has been excluded because of concerns about validity and reliability. The margin of error for each country is 3%. The typical sample size is 1,000 people. Four countries – Cyprus, Luxembourg, Vanuatu and Solomon Islands – have a sample size of 500 people and a margin of error of 4%.\n\nUnlike the other similar Corruption Perception Index published by Transparency International, this is a survey directly asking the population instead of using \"perceived expert opinions\", which is liable to substantial bias and has been under criticism as such. In a 2013 article in \"Foreign Policy\", Alex Cobham argued that the CPI embeds a powerful and misleading elite bias in popular perceptions of corruption, potentially contributing to a vicious cycle and at the same time incentivizing inappropriate policy responses. Cobham resumes: \"the index corrupts perceptions to the extent that it's hard to see a justification for its continuing publication\".\n\n"}
{"id": "12875270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12875270", "title": "Guardian (database)", "text": "Guardian (database)\n\nThe Guardian Threat Tracking System is a reporting system used by the United States Federal Bureau of Investigation to track threats and other intelligence information. It was established to collect data on terrorist threats and suspicious incidents, at seaports and other locations, and to manage action on various threats and incidents. Although Guardian was first used the latest of 2005, on August 21, 2007, the US Department of Defense announced that Guardian would take over data collection and reporting which had been handled by the TALON database system. \n\n"}
{"id": "6771325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6771325", "title": "Güglinger Bluegrass Festival", "text": "Güglinger Bluegrass Festival\n\nThe Güglinger Bluegrass Festival was a yearly bluegrass music festival that took place in Güglingen, Germany. The festival became one of the largest bluegrass festivals in Europe until it ceased after 2001. It has been followed by the Internationales Bühler Bluegrass Festival.\n\nThe festival attracted major bands from the American scene like the Nashville Bluegrass Band, Country Gazette, The Tony Rice Unit, Laurie Lewis and Grant Street, and Tim O'Brien and the O'Boys.\n\n"}
{"id": "21424772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21424772", "title": "Jersey Opera House", "text": "Jersey Opera House\n\nThe Jersey Opera House is a working theatre and opera house in La Vingtaine de la Ville, Saint Helier, Jersey, Channel Islands. The theatre building is administered by the States of Jersey but is managed by Jersey Opera House Limited. The current theatre director is Jasmine Hendry.\n\nThe current building is a 1922 reconstruction (by Jesty & Baker) of the 1900 original building by Adolphus Curry (1848-1910), with additional extension facilities provided since. The façade has been described as \"imposing and slightly Frenchified\".\n\nIts chandelier has 10,200 pieces and is carefully cleaned about every five years.\n\nJersey's previous main theatre, the Theatre Royal in Royal Crescent, Saint Helier, burnt down on 31 July 1863. It took two years for a new theatre to be built: Henry Cornwall opened the Royal Amphitheatre in Gloucester Street on 17 April 1865. This theatre was sold to Wybert Rousby in 1869, and became known as the Theatre Royal, and later as the Theatre Royal and Opera House.\n\nThe Theatre Royal and Opera House was described in the Royal Almanac for 1890: \"Its outside appearance has nothing specially attractive, but the interior is effectively decorated and decidedly comfortable (...) Open at frequent intervals throughout the year for the production of London and Parisian successes in comedy, drama, farce; also grand and comic opera rendered by specially organized companies.\" In the 1880s and 1890s prices were as follows: stalls seating for 2 shillings; dress circle seating for 3 shillings; pit seating for 1 shilling; gallery seating for 6 pence. \n\nThe theatre hosted a number of notable events. On 29 October 1885 the unveiling of the Don Monument in The Parade was the occasion for a gala performance. In April 1891 Lillie Langtry made her first appearance in a Jersey theatre at the Theatre Royal, followed by her attendance in September 1898 of a performance of R. C. Carton's \"Lord and Lady Algy\". A stage play of \"The Battle of Jersey\" was presented on 8 March 1899, with Wybert Rousby himself as Major Peirson, concluding with a tableau reenactment of Copley's \"The Death of Major Peirson\" on stage. The Theatre Royal hosted circus performances for which the seats were moved from the auditorium onto the stage to permit the circus acts to perform in the body of the theatre.\n\nWybert Rousby sold the theatre to Sidney Cooper in 1898. Fire broke out in the night of 29 March 1899; flames were spotted at 2.30am. Police, firemen, a detachment of troops, and the actors then performing \"Red Riding Hood\", turned out to battle the fire, but at 3.10 am the roof crashed down, destroying the building. Neighbouring properties were also damaged.\n\nThe Channel Islands Entertainment Co. Ltd. built a new theatre on the ruins of the Theatre Royal and Opera House. The Opera House was opened by Lillie Langtry on 9 July 1900, who performed in the first play produced in the new premises, \"The Degenerates\". The new building was modern and spacious compared to its predecessor. The stage was 40 feet deep and 60 feet broad with overhead room of 54 feet, capable of receiving scenery from Drury Lane, London. There were two boxes, one on each side of the stage, level with the dress circle: on the right \"The Governor's Box\" and on the left \"The Bailiff's Box\".\n\nA fire on 12 May 1921 partly destroyed the building.\n\nIn the 1920s the management started showing films, and this developed into a programme alternating cinema and live entertainment. When the Picture House, a cinema in Saint Helier, closed in April 1931, the Opera House became a cinema. It ran a regular cinema programme until the German Occupation. \n\nWhen the Germans arrived, there were three cinemas in operation in Jersey: the Forum (opened 1935), the Opera House, and Wests (opened 1909). The Forum, as the largest cinema, was commandeered by the Germans for entertaining the troops. The two remaining cinemas had a mere 32 feature films in stock to last during the Occupation. The Opera House and Wests arranged an alternating programme between themselves, so that a week of cinema was followed by a week of stage performance and that when the Opera House was staging a play, Wests was showing a film, and vice versa.\n\nThe problem of providing entertainment and maintaining morale under the German Occupation was tackled by Jersey's amateur dramatic societies. By February 1941 a number of productions were nearing readiness but there was uncertainty as to which company would take the initiative. On 17 February the Opera House was reopened as a theatre with a production by the Green Room Club of \"The Light of Heart\" by Emlyn Williams. After that a new production was mounted monthly on average, interrupted by German requisitioning of the Opera House and other venues for their own purposes, such as a visit by German actress Lil Dagover. Times of curtain up varied according to the curfew imposed; on occasion when the population were collectively punished for acts of resistance by earlier curfews, the curtain had to rise as early as 6pm. The electricity supply became increasingly erratic. The Opera House was forced to resort to improvised lighting consisting of 3 car headlights in the orchestra pit and lights powered by car batteries in the wings.\n\nIn October 1943 a light opera \"The Paladins\", with libretto by Horace Wyatt and music by PG Larbalestier, was mounted. The German censor passed the text despite the inclusion of a chorus \"Faithful and Free\" that became an expression of patriotic longing that produced an emotional response in the audience.\n\nIn July 1943 the Opera House and other cinemas were ordered to be closed for a month, and again following D-Day on 6 June 1944 until 9 August 1944. When the electricity supply ended on 25 January 1945, performances at the Opera House ended. Immediately following Liberation on 9 May 1945, the Opera House reopened for a grand variety show on 10 May 1945 for released prisoners.\n\nThe Opera House resumed its operation as a cinema after the Liberation, but closed as a cinema in 1959, reverting to a stage theatre.\n\nIn 1953 the theatre was purchased by Odeon (Jersey) Ltd. who ran it as a cinema with the exception of the staging of a musical show \"Starlight Rendezvous\" in 1955 and 1956. Odeon (Jersey) Ltd. put the Opera House on the market with a condition of sale that no films were to be shown under the new ownership. Theatrical impresario Tommy Swanson negotiated with the ultimate owners Rank Organisation for eighteen months before concluding the purchase at the end of the 1959 summer season. He undertook major renovations, adding 15 extra boxes.\n\nThe building came into the ownership of Dick Ray from 1976 to 1996. In 1995 the public of the Island of Jersey became the new owner of the Jersey Opera House at a cost of £1.3 million. In January 1997 the theatre closed for a major restoration project. A proposition was presented to the States of Jersey for a loan of £5.5 million to add to the £1.5 million that had been raised by the good will of the people and businesses of Jersey. This was successful and this major programme of work started in August 1998. After an extensive programme of rebuilding and renovation the new theatre opened its door on 9 July 2000 exactly 100 years to the day when the first Opera House had opened its doors to the public of Jersey.\n\nThe Jersey Opera House has had some financial difficulties in the past as well as periods when it did not operate.\n\nThe opera house hosts the Jersey Eisteddfod and other events.\n\n"}
{"id": "28704838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28704838", "title": "Kentucky Apple Festival", "text": "Kentucky Apple Festival\n\nThe Kentucky Apple Festival is an annual festival held in Paintsville, Kentucky during the first Friday and Saturday in October. The festival was originally created in 1962 as a way to provide a market for the county's apple production.\n\nThe first Kentucky Apple Festival was held on October 6, 1962, and was known as \"Apple Day\". It was guided by Elmon Davis, an officer at Citizens National Bank and apple orchard owner from Flat Gap. Davis not only created the festival to promote the county's apple production, but to compete with the Johnson County Fair, which had been held annually since 1914. Eventually, the Kentucky Apple Festival became the more popular of the two and the Johnson County Fair became nonexistent.\n\nAlthough the majority of the festivities occur on the first Friday and Saturday in October, many events occur during the last week of September, adding up to over forty-five events. Traditional events include: Junior and Miss Apple Blossom pageant; school competitions in spelling, art, penmanship, and mathematics; old-fashion costume contest; terrapin trot (turtle race); multiple concerts; car shows; Ducky Derby (Rubber duck race on Paint Creek) and the Apple Festival Parade. One of the festival's largest and most popular events prior to 2009 was the Apple Bowl. The annual football game between Paintsville High School and Johnson Central High School was halted after 2008 due to the difference in the size of the two schools.\n\n"}
{"id": "23421340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23421340", "title": "LA Invasion", "text": "LA Invasion\n\nKROQ LA Invasion was an annual autumn rock festival organized by KROQ radio.\n\nIt began under the name \"KROQ Inland Invasion\" with a retro theme focus and was held at the Hyundai Pavilion in Devore, California, from 2001-2006. In 2007, it was renamed \"KROQ LA Invasion\" and moved to the Home Depot Center in Carson, California. The last festival was in 2007.\n"}
{"id": "25714443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25714443", "title": "Legal abuse", "text": "Legal abuse\n\nLegal abuse refers to abuses associated with both civil and criminal legal action. Abuse can originate from nearly any part of the legal system, including frivolous and vexatious litigants, abuses by law enforcement, incompetent, careless or corrupt attorneys and misconduct from the judiciary itself.\n\nLegal abuse is responsible not only for injustice, but also harm to physical, psychological and societal health.*\n\nAbuses can originate from virtually every part of the legal system. Litigants, attorneys, law enforcement and judiciary can abuse the system, sometimes accidentally but more often intentionally. Legal abuse can also be systemic, such as when the principles, processes, and consequences of law itself encourage and enable individuals to legally harm others.\n\nAbusive litigants in civil cases are most often classified as vexatious litigation, frivolous litigation, or both. A \"vexatious litigant\" seeks to harass or subdue an adversary. A \"frivolous litigant\" starts or carries on actions that have little or no merit and are very unlikely to be won. Litigants of this sort are often unable to find representation willing to accommodate them and thus must represent themselves in propria persona.\n\nThere can often be considerable overlap between these two types of abuse. One case in point is the \"strategic lawsuit against public participation\" (SLAPP), which is a lawsuit intended to censor, intimidate and silence critics by fear, intimidation and burdening them with the cost of a legal defense until they abandon their criticism or opposition. Such actions are self-evidently vexatious, but are typically frivolous as well in that the plaintiff does not expect, or even intend, to win.\n\nLitigants can abuse the system in criminal ways as well. Some of the forms of criminal legal system abuse are jury tampering, the practice of directing enticements or threats to jurors in order to influence their deliberations, and falsification of evidence, which refers to any of a variety of ways evidence is improperly manipulated. One particular case of falsifying evidence is the \"frameup\", a chiefly American term for the manufacture or manipulation of evidence for the purpose of indicating the guilt of an innocent party.\n\nThere are a plethora of ways that police and law enforcement can undermine the rights of citizens. Sometimes such abuses are unintentional, brought about by circumstance, imperfect understanding of some subtlety of law, or other kinds of good-faith mistakes. In other cases rights are abused deliberately, due to prejudice, self-interest, vigilantism, impaired value judgment, conflicts of interest or corruption. Such police misconduct can take many forms, among them false arrest, harassment, police brutality, falsification of evidence, coercion and in rare cases, torture and false imprisonment.\n\nLawyers, paralegals and other professionals involved in legal advocacy can abuse the system in a number of ways. In some cases, representation may be well-intended but nonetheless incompetent. In others, lawyers engage in misconduct in an effort to gain unfair advantage for their clients or in pursuit of some self-interest.\n\nAbuse from the bench can arise from various causes, including incompetence, conflicts of interest, bias or prejudice, judicial misconduct and corruption.\n\nAlthough the primary consequence of unaddressed legal-system abuse for victims is injustice, abuses of the legal system inflict harm in many other ways. Civil litigation and criminal defense of the innocent impose psychological stress, often severe, upon the parties involved. Often such stress will affect physical health as well. When the system is abused and justice is denied as a result, stress and its effects can be exacerbated enormously. Karin P. Huffer, M.S., M.F.T. hypothesized the condition Legal Abuse Syndrome (LAS) as a form of post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) caused by ethical violation, legal abuse, betrayal, abuse of power, abuse of authority, lack of accountability and fraud.\n\nChronic and high-profile legal abuse have societal effects as well, including distrust of the law, law enforcement and the legal system, rationalization of small crimes by ordinarily honest citizens, and psychological stress.\n"}
{"id": "2473185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2473185", "title": "Locked Up (song)", "text": "Locked Up (song)\n\n\"Locked Up\" is the debut single by American singer Akon, taken as the lead single from his album, \"Trouble\". The single was released in 2004, peaking at #8 on the Billboard Hot 100. Outside the United States, \"Locked Up\" peaked within the top 10 of the charts in the Republic of Ireland and the UK.\n\nAlthough it was widely regarded that \"Lonely\" offered the album's best option in terms of commercial breakthrough and lead single as well as 1st single, SRC A&R and producer Knobody chose \"Locked Up\" as the 1st and lead single because he wanted to break Akon in the streets 1st, and then cross-over. In an interview for HitQuarters, he claimed: \"Locked Up\" is a street record. I thought that was the place for us to start to get a fan-base, knowing that weight. We thought really carefully about the record, what touches people and will get people's attention – so we added references of his kin and kith sending him magazines, money-orders, to visit him, ask where his lawyer is, accept his phone calls and ask \"where're my niggaz on lockdown.\" The song was designed a breakout hit for Akon, something that could shape the future of his personal life and widely successful musical career. I worked on what I call \"drops\" – points in the record where it feels different, to break the monotony and make it a little more interesting.\"\n\nKnobody produced an alternate of the song, featuring Styles P, which appears as both a B-side on the single and as a bonus track on the UK version of the album. In 2004, T-Pain sampled the song in a parody recording \"I'm Fucked Up\", which became a main factor in him getting signed to Konvict Kartel. In 2005, the song was sampled in the track \"Won't Let Me Out\" by C-Murder. A music video was produced to promote the single. The video was directed by FlyyKai, and was edited to both the album version and the remix featuring Styles P. The French CD single also has a remix featuring French rapper Booba, which is also Akon's favorite \"Locked Up\" remix. Another remix featuring Styles and British rapper Taz was included on the UK version of Trouble.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3245330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3245330", "title": "Lola Kenya Children's Screen", "text": "Lola Kenya Children's Screen\n\nLola Kenya Screen, or Lola Kenya Children's Screen is an audio-visual media festival and learning-by-doing mentorship for children and youth in eastern Africa. It encompasses film production, film criticism, cultural journalism, media literacy, marketing, and event planning and organisation.\n\nLola Kenya Screen was established in October 2005 by arts and culture practitioner Ogova Ondego, who has been its Managing Trustee and Creative Director since then. The name Lola Kenya Screen is Bantu and means \"see or watch films in Kenya\". Lola Kenya Screen aims to seek, identify, nurture and promote creative talent among children and youth through hands-on skills development programmes in areas such as journalism, film-making, arts appreciation, and organisation and presentation of cultural and creative events.\nThe Memorandum and Articles of Association of Lola Kenya Screen are in Chapter 486 of the Laws of Kenya, under which Lola Kenya Screen is incorporated. Its main objectives are:<ref name=\"artmatters.info/?page_id=163\">artmatters.info/?page_id=163</ref>\n\nDuring the festival, children and youth serve on the film selection committee, programme preparation and presentation (Master of Ceremonies, MC), film jury, festival press (cultural journalism), and in the film-making workshop, which produces at least five short films for children and youth.\n\nSince August 2006, when Lola Kenya Screen opened her doors to the first group of participants, some 254 children and youth had by December 2011 passed through her.\n\nThis is the platform on which various stakeholders network, publicise and market values, products and services targeting children, youth and family during the festival. Docs for Kids, a programme for trainers of trainers of makers of documentary films for children and youth, and IPO-Eastern Africa, for instance, were launched here. This is also the entry point for international productions into eastern Africa, as many of the international films exhibited here are unlikely to be shown anywhere else in Africa, which has hardly any market for children and youth films.\n\nLola Kenya Screen showcases films in educational institutions in and around Nairobi and helps to make pupils and students aware of the importance of mass media in modern societies.\n\nLola Kenya Screen collaborates with various partners to show films, conduct workshops and host seminars in communities in Nairobi and its environs. One such partner is Slum-TV, with whom Lola Kenya Screen reaches out to the public in the slums of Mathare, Huruma, Jericho and Kibera.\n\nThis is a monthly showcase of films from eastern Africa that has been held since December 15, 2005. Held on the last Monday of every month at the Goethe-Institut in Nairobi, the forum is a gathering of film students, filmmakers, film journalists, producers, art directors and others. Films are screened and participants hold discussions and explore other initiatives to advance film-making in the region .\n\nThe annual Lola Kenya Screen film festival takes place in the first full week of August. Since 2008 it has also hosted the Kids For Kids Festival-Africa (KFKF-A) competition for films made by children for children across Africa.\n\nThe film festival focuses on films by children and youth, films by students, amateurs and professionals for children and youth, and films involving children and youth. During the festival, children (6- to 13-year-olds) and youth (14- to 25-year-olds) serve on the film selection committee, on the film jury, in programme preparation and presentation (MC), in the festival press (creative journalism), and in the practical film-making workshop that produces at least five short films for children and youth.\n\nThe festival exhibits the best possible films, both local and international, for children, youth and family. It showcases films in all kinds of formats, categories and genres: short films; long films; children's and youth films; animation; African films; experimental films; creatively packaged music videos; television series and programmes; feature films; documentary films; public service announcements and commercials; student films; and computer games.\n\nDuring the inaugural event in 2006, participants under the guidance of Antonia Ringbom of Finland made a compilation of nine short cartoons that won the Africa Grand Prize for achievement in a film made by children at the 5th World Summit on Media for Children in Johannesburg, South Africa, in 2007. In 2007 and 2008, children and youth under the guidance of Finnish Maikki Kantola, Egyptian Abdel Latif, and Dutch Duco Tellegen made 14 films and 3 songs that were showcased all over the world and won several accolades and awards: the 2nd Kids For Kids Festival Africa Competition grand prize in 2008; the Special Jury Prize at 17th Jugend Medien Festival in Berlin in 2008; represented Africa at the global Kids For Kids Festival Competition in 2008; nominated for Best Animation at the 5th Africa Movie Academy Awards in 2009; and nominated for Best Short Documentary at the 5th Africa Movie Academy Awards in 2009. These films are still on the festival circuit around the world.\n\nBetween August 2006 and December 2011, Lola Kenya Screen has trained 254 children and youth from Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda, Zanzibar, Tanzania and Zimbabwe in media skills and 6 adults in making documentaries for children and youth. Its mentorship programme has produced more than 30 films since 2006, including several that have won awards and accolades on the international film circuit. In 2011, \"Happy Times\" by Elaine Nesbitt and \"Manani Ogres\" by Samuel Musembi, Joseph Hongo, Marcus Kang’ethe and Norrick Mwangi were selected to take part in the sixth Busan International Kids' Film Festival in South Korea.\n\nLola Kenya Screen 2008 attracted participation from Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, and Zimbabwe, and films from 56 countries were shown. Between 2006 and 2011, Lola Kenya Screen has showcased more than 1950 films from 102 countries.\n\nThe Lola Kenya Screen festival comprises several film exhibition sections. The main film prizes are the Golden Mboni Award for the best children's film and the 14-Plus Award for the best youth film. Other prizes include the Most Creative Project, Children's Rights, Best Animation, Best Documentary, Best Fiction, Best Experimental Film, Best Student Film, Best Kenyan Film, and Best Eastern Africa Film.\n\nWinners of the Golden Mboni prize for the best children’s films have included Dutch Mischa Kamp's \"Tony 10\" (2012), Belgian Vincent Bruno’s \"Le Maillot de Cristiano\" (\"Cristiano Ronaldo's Shirt\", 2011), Nigerian Mak Kusare’s \"Champions of Our Time\" (2010), Italian Marco Gianfreda’s \"Io Parlo\" (\"I'll Tell on You\", 2009), Swedish Peter Naess’s \"Hoppet\" (\"Leaps and Bounds\", 2008), Israeli Itai Lev’s \"Giborim Kitanin\" (2007), and Ukrainian Koval Stepan’s \"Zlydni\" (2006).\n\nWinners of the 14-Plus Award for the best youth film, a prize introduced in 2009 out of recognition that the festival was growing and catered to both children and youth, are German Daniel Hedfeld and René Sydow's \"Das Geheimer Zimmer\"(\"Secret Room\", 2012), Madagascan Mamihasina Raminosoa and Andriamanisa Radoniaina’s \"Dzaomalaza et le Saphir Bleu\" (\"Dzaomalaza and the Blue Sapphire\", 2011), Malawian Charles Shemu Joyah’s \"Seasons of a Life\" (2010), and South African Minky Schlesinger’s \"Ugugu no Andile\" (Gugu and Andile, 2009).\n\nThe Best Animation Award has gone to \"Gamba Trista\" (Loser Leg) by Francesco Filippi of Italy (2011), \"Lost and Found\" by Philip Hunt of the United Kingdom (2010), which also won the Silver Mboni Award for the second best children's film and the Audience's Choice Award, \"Zlamana Pieczpc\" (\"The Broken Seal\") by Pawel Czarzasty of Poland (2009), \"Max's Words\" by Galen Fott and Jerry Hunt of the United States (2008), and \"More, Strycku, and Proc Je Slane?\" (\"The Sea, Uncle, Why Is It Salty?\") by Jan Balej of the Czech Republic (2007).\n\n\"Zlamana Pieczpc\" by Pawel Czarzasty and \"Ksiezycowa Kraina\" (\"Lunar Land\") by Andrzej Kukula, both of Poland, won the Best TV Series Award and the Best Animation Film Award, respectively, in 2009. Another Polish production, \"Magiczne Drzewo\" (The Magic Tree) by Andrzej Maleszka won the 2010 Best TV Series Award.\n\nWinners of the Best Student Film Award have included \"Znikniecie\"(\"Vanishing\", 2012) by Bartosz Kruhlik','Jutro\" (\"Tomorrow\") by Bartosz Kruhlik of Poland (2011), \"Great Expectations\" by Alexei Gubenco of Romania (2010), \"Elephants\" by Sally Pearce of the United Kingdom (2009), and \"Vika\" by Tsivia Barkai of Israel (2006).\n\nAmong others, the Best Documentary Film Award has gone to \"Paradiso\" by Italian Alessandro Negrini, working in Northern Ireland (2011), \"Big Sister Punam\" by Serbian Lucian and Natasa Muntean (2010), \"A Beautiful Tragedy\" by Norway-based David Kinsella of the UK (2009), which also took the 14-Plus Award for the second best youth film, and \"Journey of a Red Fridge\" by Lucian Muntean and Natasa Stankovic of Serbia (2008).\n\nOther winners have included Polish Wojciech Nowak's \"Przebunie.txt\" (\"Awakening\")(Most Experimental Film Award, 2012), Kenyan Kwame Nyong’o's \"The Legend of Ngong Hills\" (Best Eastern African Film Award, 2012), Spanish Jose y Cesar Esteban Alenda's \"Matara A Un Nino\" (\"The Child will Die\") (Best Short Film Award, 2012) Indian P R Ramadasa Naidu's \"Kruthi\" (\"The Title Deed\")(Environmental Conservation Award, 2012), Venezuelan Prakriti Maduro's \"I Wanna Shine\" (Special Commendation, 2012),\n\nSpanish films dominated the awards list in the 6th Lola Kenya Screen in 2011. The Silver Mboni for the second best children’s film went to \"Pizzangrillo\" (\"Lighthearted Boy\") by Marco Gianfreda of Italy, and the Bronze Mboni for the third best children’s film went to \"Volterata\" (\"Somersault\") by Alex Morante of Spain, which also won the Most Experimental Film prize. \"La Playa de Berlin\" (\"Cannon Beach\") by Manuel Calvo of Spain won the 14-Plus Award for the second best youth film, and \"Mi Otra Mitad\" (\"My Other Half\") by Beatriz Sanchis, also of Spain, took the 14-Plus Award for the third best youth film. Other winners included \"Mute\" by Muayad Alayan of Palestine (Best Children’s Rights Film). The Ombetja Yehinga Organisation headed by Philippe Talavera of Namibia wone a Special Youth Prize for their three films \"Sex and Chocolate\", \"Teddy Bear Love\" and \"Make a Move\". The 14-Plus Award Special Commendation went to \"Bizzaire\" by Kenyan Martin Ndichu. Serbians Lucian and Natasa Muntean received the Best Documentary Special Commendation award for \"Mbaabu and the Mountains of the Moon\". The 5th Kids for Kids Festival Africa Prize was shared by Kenyan productions \"Monsters of the New Age\" by Brian Saruni and \"Vanessa's Dream\" by Adede Hawi and Daki Mohammed.\n\nSome of the specialists who have mentored children and youth at Lola Kenya Screen have included Antonia Ringbom of Finland/Sweden(Animation film production, 2006), Maikki Kantola of Finland (Animation film production, 2007), Eid Abdel Latif of Egypt (Animation film production, 2008), Duco Tellegen and Meike Statema of The Netherlands (Documentary filmmaking for children and youth, 2008), Anette Tony Hansen of Denmark (Television drama for children and youth, 2009), Signe Zeilich-Jensen (Film judging, 2008), Fina Sensada-Boixader of Spain (Documentary filmmaking, 2009), Rut Gomez Sobrino of Spain (Journalism, 2009), Florence Sipalla of Kenya (Programme planning, 2008), and Kenyans Cajetan Boy (Film scripting, 2011) and Ogova Ondego (cultural journalism, creative writing, critical appreciation of creativity, film judging, media literacy, programme planning, 2006-2011).\n\nOther facilitators have included David Kinsella of Norway (Film editing, 2008), Emily Wanja, Wanjiru Kairu and Vincho Nchogu of Kenya (Documentary filmmaking, 2009), and Allan Aligula of Kenya (Documentary filmmaking, 2010).\n\nMotivational guest speakers on film-making have included Kenyan Judy Kibinge, Wanuri Kahiu, Guy Wilson, Ali Mwangola and Belgian Aurelien Bodinaux (2010).\n\nThe festival has also been attended by film producer Aurelien Bodinaux of Belgium (2009, 2010), TV producer Elahe Kasmaei of Iran (2008), afro-fusion musician Joel Sebunjo of Uganda (2006–2009) and independent filmmakers Aster Bedane of Ethiopia (2009), Ashraf Simwogerere Mayanja of Uganda (2009), Caroline Kamya of Uganda (2007), Sheila Mulinya of Kenya (2006, 2008, 2009, 2011), Katrin Ender of Germany (2006), Susan Wamburi of Kenya (2006, 2011) and Runcie Chidebe of Nigeria (2009), Kenyan screen actresses Nice Githinji and Janet Kirina (2008), and Fr Pietro Caggiano of Italy (2009, 2011).\n\nLola Kenya Screen, a Nairobi-based charity, is a member of the International Centre of Cinema for Children and Young People (CIFEJ), an organisation founded in 1955 under the auspices of UNESCO and UNICEF to promote excellence in cinema for children and youth, and of the Kids For Kids Festival (KFKF) community of filmmakers and educators, which promotes audiovisual media content created by children for children.\nTo implement its programmes, Lola Kenya Screen has worked with the Goethe-Institut in Kenya, the Danish Film Institute, Prix Jeunesse of Germany, Africalia of Belgium, the Jan Vrijman Fund of the International Documentary Festival Amsterdam (IDFA) of The Netherlands, UNESCO, the Prince Claus Fund for Culture and Development of the Netherlands, and ComMattersKenya and ArtMatters. Info of Kenya. The partnership with UNESCO enabled Lola Kenya Screen to host the first film summit for independent television and audiovisual media content producers in eastern Africa, which gave birth to the Nairobi Declaration and IPO-Eastern Africa network of audiovisual media and Television producers in the Great Lakes and Horn of Africa regions. The collaboration with Africalia produced a network of film festivals in Africa that bring African cinema to Africans. This arrangement, called Cinetoile and funded by the European Commission and the Belgian Development Cooperation in 2010, helped strengthen Lola Kenya Screen's school and neighbourhood film screening outreach programme.\n\nDon't forget that Lola Kenya Screen was established in October 2005\n"}
{"id": "34829589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34829589", "title": "Murder of Karen Price", "text": "Murder of Karen Price\n\nKaren Price (known posthumously as Little Miss Nobody) was a 15-year-old Welsh murder victim who disappeared in 1981. After the discovery of her body in 1989, British facial reconstruction artist Richard Neave used her skull to create a model of her physical appearance. The reconstruction and the matching of DNA in the body to that of Price's parents allowed her body to be identified. The case was cited as one of the first instances in which DNA technology was used in this way.\n\nIn 1989, in Cardiff, Wales, two construction workers unearthed a rolled carpet while installing a garden behind a house. When the carpet was unrolled, the skeletal remains of a young female were revealed. Entomologists studied insect eggs around the discovery site and determined that the girl had been dead for approximately 10 years. When early efforts to identify the body failed, Richard Neave of Manchester University created a clay facial reconstruction of the skull. This reconstruction, along with a comparison of DNA samples from the victim and Price's parents, made the identification possible.\n\nThe police concluded that Price had run away from home and turned to prostitution. In 1991, Idris Ali and Alan Charlton, who were alleged to have managed her solicitation as a prostitute, were charged with her murder. Ali's charge was eventually reduced to manslaughter, and he was released in 1994. Charlton is still serving a life sentence.\n\nIn February 2014, the Criminal Cases Review Commission, the public body responsible for investigating alleged miscarriages of justice in England, Wales, and Northern Ireland, referred Charlton's conviction to the Court of Appeal, stating that there was a \"real possibility\" that the conviction could be overturned. In March 2015, the commission also referred Ali's conviction to the appeal court, stating, \"There is a real possibility the Court of Appeal will conclude that the conviction is unsafe because of the risk of the prosecution amounting to an abuse of process\". It was disclosed that a number of officers from the South Wales Police who were involved in the investigation of Price's murder had also worked on the Lynette White and Philip Saunders murder inquiries, in which six men were wrongfully convicted. Other sources of concern in the Price case, according to the commission, included breaches of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 (PACE) and the PACE Code of Practice, which govern the detention, treatment, and questioning of persons by police officers; the credibility of the prosecution witnesses; \"oppressive handling by the police of key witnesses\"; and the \"veracity of Mr. Ali's guilty plea\".\n\nIn 2016 both men's appeals were dismissed at the Court of Appeal in London.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13041514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13041514", "title": "Neocatastrophism", "text": "Neocatastrophism\n\nNeocatastrophism is the hypothesis that life-exterminating events such as gamma-ray bursts have acted as a galactic regulation mechanism in the Milky Way upon the emergence of complex life in its habitable zone. It is proposed as an explanation of Fermi's paradox since it provides a mechanism which would have delayed the otherwise expected advent of intelligent beings in the local galaxy nearby to Earth. This is an avenue to explain why none so far have been detected by humans.\n\nIt is estimated that Earth-like planets in the Milky Way started forming 9 billion years ago, and that their median age is 6.4 ± 0.7 Ga. Moreover, 75% of stars in the galactic habitable zone are older than the Sun. This makes the existence of potential planets with evolved intelligent life more likely than not to be older than that of the Earth (4.54 Ga). This creates an observational dilemma since interstellar travel, (even of the \"slow\" kind that is nearly within the reach of present Earth technology) could in theory, if this had arisen elsewhere, take from only 5 million to 50 million years to colonize the galaxy. This leads to a conundrum first posed in 1950 by the physicist Enrico Fermi in his namesake paradox: \"Why are no aliens or their artifacts physically here?\"\n\nThe hypothesis posits that astrobiological evolution is subject to regulation mechanisms that arrest or postpone the advent of complex creatures capable of interstellar communication and traveling technology. These regulation mechanisms act to temporarily sterilize planets of biology in the galactic habitable zone. The main proposed regulation mechanism is gamma-ray bursts.\n\nPart of the neocatastrophism hypothesis is that stellar evolution produces a decreasing frequency of such catastrophic events increasing the length of the \"window\" in which intelligent life might arise as galaxies age. According to modeling, this creates the possibility of a phase transition at which point a galaxy turns from a place that is essentially dead (with a few pockets of simple life) to one that is crowded with complex life forms.\n"}
{"id": "18371901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18371901", "title": "Netmage", "text": "Netmage\n\nNetmage is an international festival dedicated to electronic art curated by Xing and produced annually—in the city of Bologna—as a multidisciplinary program of works, investigating and promoting contemporary audiovisual research. The festival was born in 2000 with funds provided by the European Union, when Bologna represented one of the nine major European capital of culture. The festival concentrates on an amalgam of Happenings, environments, and audio/visual installations, it does through a concentration on creative scenes and subcultural communities.\n\nThe experience of Netmage (eleven editions from 2001 to 2011) was merged into the annual Live Arts Week.\n\nThe mission of Netmage is to investigate the relationship between the \"liveness\" and the \"ambient space\".\nAt the crossroads of these two terms is situated the notion of \"post-cinema\": defined as an environmental construction capable of gathering widely diverse attitudes in a public space.\n\nPost Cinema/Postmemory It is a cinema made of multi-projections on a number of screens with no seating, a multiplication of narrative traces, possible points of view, physical positions of the spectators; achieving a removal of the forced estrangement of the 20th Century spectator (the darkness of the room, physical and perceptive isolation, a monodirectional viewing perspective) that evoke the world of the first Happenings of the 1960s, the philosophy of expanded cinema, and successive multimedia installation experiments of the 1980s.\n\n\"Live Media is an open-ended term which has come into currency amongst artists and theoreticians. Live-media relates to the gathering of relatively diverse practices capable of calling to mind the wide range of research by video producers, visual artists, musicians, sound artists, VJ's, filmmakers, designers and a range of creative people issued by creative scenes and subcultural communities.\nNetmage and its curators have been instrumental in coining and promoting this term.\n\n\nPlaying with stimuli, what is created in the live-media experience is a \"privilege of variation\" that in the first case goes from designer to public, in the second from public to executor. The confrontation is direct, dictated by the logic of the event.\n\n\"Dispositif\" (post-cinema) and practice (Live Media) thus represent two types of continuous variation through which Netmage questions possible currents in new media aesthetics, summoning artists and visual operators from diverse disciplines, in a context reminiscent of the Happening.\n\nDespite the complexity born from the exploration of this kind of space, ideal internal space, the two axes—post-cinema and live media—intertwine and simply state what may be called a gathering, a togetherness of the community of producers, protagonists in the field of contemporary media, who both find themselves isolated; creating then a direct, interdisciplinary confrontation, thus filling a growing gap between hyper-connectivity on one hand, physical and social experience on the other.\n\nThe first edition of the festival was born in an historic watershed with a view on one side from the experiences of one of the last bastions of the Twentieth Century avantgarde, video art, and on the other toward a new front that was as yet undefined while the entire world of research visual production was poised to turn fully digital.\n\nIn the field of music, the 1990s had already anticipated a great deal of what was later to come in the visual world, pointing the way to a radical transformation in techniques, languages and methods of cultural consumption. Netmage, different from a number of other festivals dedicated to electronics born in the world of clubbing, has concentrated on the production of images, imagination and universal vision.\nIn eleven editions Netmage has produced and hosted over two hundred projects from over thirty countries (including Europe, Asia, The Americas, Oceania) offering a smattering of the most recent evolutions in the technological imagination and multiple currents.\nFollows the list of the guests of the festival (Nationality follows standard notation)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19375346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19375346", "title": "Orlando Film Festival", "text": "Orlando Film Festival\n\nThe Orlando Film Festival is an annual film festival held in Orlando, Florida. It has become one of the premier film festivals for independent filmmakers to showcase their work. Heading into its 11th year, the Orlando Film Festival attracts upwards of 1000 entries from filmmakers in more than 30 countries every year.\n\nCreated as an alternative to commercial cinema, the annual week-long festival remains true to its original goal of promoting film as an art form. Its mission is to support and promote culture and the arts in Downtown Orlando through the medium of film. The Orlando Film Festival seeks to inspire student, future and current filmmakers in the art of filmmaking, and to enhance the movie viewing experience in Downtown Orlando through creative, unique and entertaining events. The Orlando Film Festival also fosters the growth of emerging and established film producers.\n\nThe festival is open to film of all lengths and genres, including experimental, narrative, animation, documentary, and genre hybrids. The festival’s mission is to provide a worldwide public forum for moving image exhibitions, to encourage and showcase artists of the moving image, to promote the moving image as art, and to offer educational outreach. The Orlando Film Festival has become one of the most active film organizations in the country championing artists' rights of expression and free speech. Past celebrity attendees are Marcia Gay Harden (2006), Joe Pantoliano (2007), Olympia Dukakis, and Haley Joel Osment & Alison Brie (2010).\n\nThe 2015 festival ran October 21–25, and kicked off with the 45 minute documentary about the rise to prominence of the Orlando City Soccer Club.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3047219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3047219", "title": "Owen J. Baggett", "text": "Owen J. Baggett\n\nOwen John Baggett (August 29, 1920 – July 27, 2006) was a second lieutenant in the United States 7th Bomb Group based at Pandaveswar, in India, during the Second World War.\n\nBaggett was born in Graham, Texas in 1920. He graduated from Hardin–Simmons University in 1941, where he was the band's drum major. He found employment on Wall Street after graduation.\n\nBaggett enlisted in the Army Air Corps (which was subsumed by the Army Air Forces in February 1942) and graduated from pilot training on July 26, 1942, at the New Columbus Army Flying School.\n\nOn March 31, 1943, while stationed in British India, Baggett's squadron, part of the 7th Bombardment Group, was ordered to destroy a bridge at Pyinmana, Burma. Before reaching their target, the 12 B-24s of 7th BG were intercepted by 13 Ki-43 fighters of \"64 Sentai\" IJAAS. Baggett's plane was severely damaged and was set on fire by several hits to the fuel tanks, and the crew was forced to bail out. The aircrew escaped the crippled B-24 merely seconds before the bomber exploded. Japanese pilots then attacked U.S. airmen as they parachuted to earth. Two of Baggett's fellow crew members were killed. (Contrary to sources stating that the pilot, Lloyd K. Jensen was \"summarily executed\", Jensen survived the war.) Baggett, who was wounded, played dead, hoping that the Japanese pilots would ignore him. One Zero fighter approached close to Baggett, slowed and the pilot opened his canopy. Baggett drew his M1911 pistol, fired four shots at the pilot and watched as the plane stalled and plunged toward the ground.\n\nWhile Baggett later achieved fame as the only person to shoot down an aircraft with a pistol, this was contradicted by Japanese wartime records, which indicate that no Japanese pilots were lost in that particular action.\n\nBaggett survived the descent and was captured by Japanese ground forces. He remained a prisoner for the rest of the war. Baggett and 37 other POWs were liberated at the war's end by eight OSS agents who parachuted into Singapore.\n\nWhile he was assigned to Mitchel Air Force Base, Baggett was noted for his work with children, including sponsoring a boy and a girl to be commander for a day. Baggett retired from the Air Force as a colonel and later worked as a defense contractor manager for Litton.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12609285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12609285", "title": "Program (German non-profit)", "text": "Program (German non-profit)\n\nProgram is a German non-profit platform that aims to expand the disciplinary boundaries of architecture through its collaboration with other fields. Based in Berlin, it was founded in 2006 by Carson Chan (born 1980 in Hong Kong) and Fotini Lazaridou-Hatzigoga (born 1979 in Thessaloniki, Greece). Program has been providing a discursive platform for artists, architects, critics and curators to explore new ideas through exhibitions, performances, workshops, lectures and residencies. Exhibitions represent a large part of Program's mandate for expanding the current understanding of architecture, both theoretically and in practice.\n\n"}
{"id": "1104306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1104306", "title": "Public holidays in Panama", "text": "Public holidays in Panama\n\nPanama's national public holidays are:\n\n\nThe holidays in November (starting from Separation Day), are called the Fiestas Patrias (\"Patriotic Holidays\").\n"}
{"id": "26934707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26934707", "title": "Rewired (demoparty)", "text": "Rewired (demoparty)\n\nRewired is the only Belgian annual demoparty, which is organised since 2008. Typical competitions include PC demos and intros, hand-made and ray traced graphics, \"wild\", music and \"oldskool\" competitions. \n\nThe first three editions took place in Maaseik, Belgium. The party is organized in JC Fuego, not far from downtown Maaseik.\n\nIn 2011, the party went on a break but returned in 2012, moving the party to Godsheide near Hasselt, Belgium. \n\n\nCurrently there are no further events planned.\n\n"}
{"id": "2467983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2467983", "title": "SAIL Amsterdam", "text": "SAIL Amsterdam\n\nSAIL Amsterdam is a quinquennial maritime event in Amsterdam in the Netherlands. Tall ships from all over the world visit the city to moor in its eastern harbour, and people can then visit the ships.\n\nThe event was organised for the first time in 1975 to celebrate the 700th anniversary of Amsterdam, under the name 'Sail Amsterdam 700'. At that time, interest in tall ships, which had sunk to a low since the 1930s when the last commercial tall ships had been built, was starting to rise. The success of Sail Amsterdam 700 led to the establishment of the \"Stichting Sail Amsterdam\" (SSA, \"Foundation Sail Amsterdam\").\n\nSail is one of the largest maritime manifestations in the world, and the largest event of any kind in the Netherlands. Tens of tall ships and hundreds of other historical ships are involved. Numerous other ships and boats are present besides the participating ships, amounting to 8000 boats in the 2000 edition.\n\nLesser events take place during the festival, involving small sailboats, sailor choirs or re-enactments of naval battles. The \"Sail In\" or \"Parade of Sail\" on the first day attracts many other small ships, including creations like a sailing organ (with trumpet accompaniment) or a train converted to a ship. On the next to last day there is a naval pageant and on the last day the 'Sail Out'.\n\nSAIL Amsterdam 2005 was held from 17 to 22 August, the 7th edition of the festival. The event was expected to attract 2 to 3 million visitors. The number of tall ships depends on the definition, but figures vary from 21 (the official figure) to over 50 (those with at least 3 masts). Other historical ships number around 600. There were also several ship replicas (either real sailing ships or fakes that have to be towed), hundreds of classical sail- and steamships ('het Nationaal Varend Erfgoed' - the Sailing National Heritage) and some modern marine ships. New that year were several modern yachts and a submarine, the \"\".\n\nThe tall ships were moored in the IJhaven (IJ harbour) and in Amsterdam North (across 't IJ) and the Varend Erfgoed boats were moored in the nearby, where one can also find the Nederlands Scheepvaartmuseum (a maritime museum) with its (fake) replica of a Dutch East India Company (VOC) ship, which is permanently moored there. Absent was another Dutch replica of a VOC ship (a 'real' seaworthy replica), the Batavia, with its home port in Lelystad, not too far from Amsterdam. \nThe main ships, in the order of the official walking-route were (with length and Nation of origin):\n\nSmaller events included an exposition of yacht building in the newly built Muziekgebouw ('music building'), many music stages, food from all corners of the Earth, fireworks every night at 10 o'clock, a parade of sailors in uniform and the 'Pieremachocheltocht' (even the organisation isn't sure what the word means), a parade of carnavalesque floating creations (open to anyone).\n\nCosts of the event were around €7.5 million. Direct financial benefits are from sponsoring, catering and sales of souvenirs.\n\nThis year's three themes were the maritime link between past, present and future, the connection of worlds and cultures and youth, with the binding motto 'Enjoy a world of friendships' (in English - the pun doesn't work in Dutch).\n\nOn the first day, the ships gather in the locks at IJmuiden for the \"Sail In\" or \"Parade of Sail\" through the North Sea Canal to Amsterdam, led by the event's flagship. In 2005 that was the \"Stad Amsterdam\", which was supposed to reach Amsterdam first, but she ran aground (allegedly the fact that the Dutch crown prince Willem Alexander was at the helm had nothing to do with that), so the Statsraad Lehmkuhl came in first (it's not a contest, though). Amsterdam's harbour is known to be very shallow (a centuries-old problem) and the Stad Amsterdam is a 'deep' ship. But luckily the ground is also very soggy, so there is not likely to have been any damage.\n\nIn 2005, was held one week before SAIL Amsterdam (10–14 August) and it was decided to make that a five-yearly event as well, which will be convenient for the ships since they are already in the neighbourhood.\n\nSAIL Amsterdam 2005 logo contest was won by Lamouri Merouane. A former student of a design school in Amsterdam (Grafisch Lyceum Amsterdam) He is originally from Algeria (Algiers). His logo was finally chosen and used through the entire event.\n\nSAIL Amsterdam 2010 was held from 19 August until 23 August that year.\n\nSAIL Amsterdam 2015 was held from 19 August to 23 August 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20758004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20758004", "title": "Shoe tossing", "text": "Shoe tossing\n\nShoe tossing, the act of using shoes as projectiles or improvised weapons, is a constituent of a number of folk sports and practices. Today, it is commonly the act of throwing a pair of shoes onto telephone wires, power lines, or other raised wires. A related practice is shoe tossing onto trees or fences.\nUrban legends tell that the shoes represent the location where a gang murder or hit took place. In urban areas, it can serve to signal that a drug dealer is nearby or one can purchase drugs in that area. \n\nNevertheless, the main reason for dangling shoes on high wires is for recreational or trivial purposes, usually as a prank played by bullies and drinkers. Thrown shoes may also symbolize local culture or traditions of some sort.\n\nShoe dangling, or shoe flinging, is the practice of throwing shoes whose shoelaces have been tied together so that they hang from overhead wires such as power lines or telephone cables. Once the shoes are tied together, the pair is then thrown at the wires as a sort of bolas.\n\nShoe flinging occurs throughout North America, Latin America and Europe, in rural as well as in urban areas. Usually, the shoes flung at the wires are sneakers; many different varieties of shoes, including leather shoes and boots, also are thrown. There are many cultural variations as well, with differences between socio-economic areas and even age groups.\nA number of criminal explanations have been proposed as to why this is done. The foremost is bullying in which a bully steals a pair of shoes and puts them in a place where they are unlikely to be retrieved. Or sometimes it is done as a practical joke played on drunkards. An April/May 2003 newsletter from the now former mayor of Los Angeles, California, Mayor James Hahn, cited fears of many Los Angeles residents that \"these shoes indicate sites at which drugs are sold or worse yet, gang turf\", and that city and utility employees had launched a program to remove the shoes. A 2015 study of shoe tossing data in Chicago found that the rumor and relationship between dangling shoes and drug dealing was correlated, not causal. \n\nOther, less criminal explanations have been proposed. In some cultures, shoes are flung to commemorate the end of a school year, or a forthcoming marriage, as part of a rite of passage. It has been suggested that the custom may have originated with members of the military, who are said to have thrown military boots, often painted orange or some other conspicuous color, at overhead wires as a part of a rite of passage upon completing basic training or on leaving the service. In the 1997 film \"Wag the Dog\", shoe tossing features as an allegedly spontaneous cultural manifestation of tribute to Sgt. William Schumann, played by Woody Harrelson, who has purportedly been “shot down behind enemy lines” in Albania.\n\nIn the \"Better Call Saul\" episode \"Sunk Costs\", a pair of dangling shoes is used to surreptitiously plant illegal drugs on a truck.\n\nOthers simply say that shoe flinging is a way to get rid of shoes that are no longer wanted, are uncomfortable, or do not fit. It may also be another manifestation of the human instinct to leave their mark on, and decorate, their surroundings. \n\nIn some neighborhoods, shoes tied together and hanging from power lines or tree branches signify that someone has died. The shoes belong to the dead person. The reason they are hanging, legend has it, is that when the dead person's spirit returns, it will walk that high above the ground, that much closer to heaven. Another superstition holds that the tossing of shoes over the power lines outside of a house is a way to keep the property safe from ghosts. Yet another legend suggests that shoes hanging from telephone wires signal someone leaving the neighborhood onto bigger and better things.\n\nA shoe tree, not to be confused with the shoe-preservation device of the same name, is a tree (or, occasionally, a powerline pole or other wooden object) that has been festooned with old shoes. Shoe trees are generally located alongside a major local thoroughfare, and may have a theme (such as high-heeled shoes). There are currently at least seventy-six such shoe trees in the United States, and an undetermined number elsewhere.\n\nBoot throwing, or welly wanging, has been a competitive sport in New Zealand and Britain for many years, although not one that is taken very seriously. Wellington boots are the heavy rubber boots worn by most farm workers and many other outdoor workers. A competition to see who can throw a boot, or \"welly\", the furthest is a feature of many Agricultural Field Days in the rural communities. The town of Taihape in the central North Island is particularly identified with this sport; they claim to be the Gum Boot Throwing Capital of New Zealand. They hold an annual competition (Gumboot Day) in the main street and award a Golden Gumboot as the trophy. See also Wellie wanging in Yorkshire, England.\n\nSince 2003 the sport has been practiced competitively in Eastern Europe. The 2004 World Championship Competition was won by Germany who is hosting the 2005 Competition at Döbeln. Teams were also expected from Australia and Russia. Boot throwing has been a popular sport in Finland since 1976 when the first Finnish Championships of boot throwing was organized.\nThe Scottish Championships were held in Oban in July 2009 where shoe-throwing pioneers RD Miller & David Gaffney created an impromptu event on the waterfront. This inspired such shoe-throwing legends as Phil Reid (who always favoured the lighter trainer) to pick up the baton -- or the sneaker in this case -- and take it to a wider audience. A more amateur watered-down version is still evident today in certain parts of Oban in July.\n\nIn many Arab cultures, it is considered an extreme insult to throw a shoe at someone. It is also considered rude even to display the sole of one's foot to someone. In 2008, Iraqi cameraman Muntadar al-Zaidi threw two shoes at United States President George W. Bush while the president was visiting Baghdad, and was arrested and incarcerated. President Bush ducked and was not struck by the shoes. Shoe throwing as an insult is not just limited to the Muslim world, as there are also other notable incidents that have occurred involving other celebrities and world leaders. Some of these have involved Steve McCarthy, David Beckham, Harry Styles, Lily Allen, Hillary Clinton, and Wen Jiabao.\n\n \"Flippering\" has occurred in the Stoke Croft area of Bristol; a pair of flippers can be seen on Jamaica Street in Bristol. Flippers have also been seen over a wire in the East Village section of New York City (pictured).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5706758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5706758", "title": "Single Scope Background Investigation", "text": "Single Scope Background Investigation\n\nA Single Scope Background Investigation (SSBI) is a type of United States security clearance investigation required for Top Secret, SCI and Q access, and involves investigators or agents interviewing past employers, coworkers and other individuals associated with the subject of the SSBI. Standard elements include background checks of employment, education, organization affiliations and any local agency where the subject has lived, worked, traveled or attended school. These checks lead to interviews with persons who know the subject both personally and professionally. The investigation may include a NACLC of the subject’s spouse or cohabitant. Previous background investigations conducted on the subject may also be reviewed to corroborate the information obtained or disclosed within the new SSBI.\n\nThe Standard Form 86 (SF86) is required to begin the background check process. See the \"Questionnaire for National Security Positions\" at http://www.opm.gov/Forms/pdf_fill/sf86.pdf. SF86 is now an electronic form known as e-QIP, and the information on an investigation and its status is stored in either JPAS, PIPS or Scattered Castles.\n\n"}
{"id": "1744341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1744341", "title": "Sockpuppet (Internet)", "text": "Sockpuppet (Internet)\n\nA sockpuppet is an online identity used for purposes of deception. The term, a reference to the manipulation of a simple hand puppet made from a sock, originally referred to a false identity assumed by a member of an Internet community who spoke to, or about, themselves while pretending to be another person. \n\nThe term now includes other misleading uses of online identities, such as those created to praise, defend or support a person or organization, to manipulate public opinion, or to circumvent a suspension or ban from a website. A significant difference between the use of a pseudonym and the creation of a sockpuppet is that the sockpuppet poses as an independent third-party unaffiliated with the puppeteer. Sockpuppets are unwelcome in many online communities and may be blocked.\n\nThe first documented use of the term \"sockpuppet\" dates back to July 9, 1993, but it did not become common in USENET groups until 1996. The first \"Oxford English Dictionary\" entry was \"a person whose actions are controlled by another; a minion\", with a citation from \"U.S. News and World Report\", March 27, 2000.\n\nThe history of reviewing one's own work under another name predates the Internet. Walt Whitman and Anthony Burgess both reviewed their books under pseudonyms. Another notable example was Benjamin Franklin.\n\nOn October 21, 2013 the Wikimedia Foundation (WMF) condemned paid advocacy sockpuppeting on Wikipedia and, on October 23, specifically banned editing by the public relations firm Wiki-PR. In August and September 2015 the WMF uncovered another group of sockpuppets known as Orangemoody.\n\nOne reason for sockpuppeting is to circumvent a block, ban or other form of sanction imposed on the person's original account. After access is restricted, people may try to get around the sanctions by using alternate accounts.\n\nSockpuppets may be created during an online poll to submit multiple votes in favor of the puppeteer. A related usage is the creation of multiple identities, each supporting the puppeteer's views in an argument, attempting to position the puppeteer as representing majority opinion and sideline opposition voices. In the abstract theory of social networks and reputation systems, this is known as a sybil attack.\n\nA sockpuppet-like use of deceptive fake identities is used in stealth marketing. The stealth marketer creates one or more pseudonymous accounts, each one claiming to be owned by a different enthusiastic supporter of the sponsor's product, book or ideology.\n\nA strawman sockpuppet is a false flag pseudonym created to make a particular point of view look foolish or unwholesome in order to generate negative sentiment against it. Strawman sockpuppets typically behave in an unintelligent, uninformed, or bigoted manner and advance \"straw man\" arguments that their puppeteers can easily refute. The intended effect is to discredit more rational arguments made for the same position. Such sockpuppets behave in a similar manner to Internet trolls. \n\nA particular case is the concern troll, a false flag pseudonym created by a user whose actual point of view is opposed to the one that the sockpuppet claims to hold. The concern troll posts in Web forums devoted to its declared point of view and attempts to sway the group's actions or opinions while claiming to share their goals, but with professed \"concerns\". The goal is to sow fear, uncertainty and doubt (aka FUD) within the group.\n\nThe term \"meatpuppet\" (or \"meat puppet\") is an online version of a shill, and is used as a pejorative description of various online behaviors. The term was in use before the Internet gained public awareness, including references in Ursula K. Le Guin's science fiction story \"The Diary of the Rose\" (1976), the alternative rock band Meat Puppets, and the cyberpunk novelist William Gibson's \"Neuromancer\" (1984). Editors of Wikipedia use the term to label contributions of new community members if suspected of having been recruited by an existing member to support their position. Such a recruited member is considered analogous to a sockpuppet even though he/she is actually a separate individual (i.e. \"meat\") rather than a fictitious creation. \"Wired\" columnist Lore Sjöberg put \"meat puppet\" first on a satirical list of \"common terms used at Wikipedia\", defining the term as \"a person who disagrees with you.\"\n\nNevertheless, other online sources use the term \"meatpuppet\" to describe sockpuppet behaviors. For example, according to one online encyclopedia, a meat puppet \"publishes comments on blogs, wikis and other public venues about some phenomenon or product in order to generate public interest and buzz\"—that is, he/she is engaged in behavior more widely known as \"astroturfing.\" A 2006 article in \"The Chronicle of Higher Education\" defined a meat puppet as \"a peculiar inhabitant of the digital world—a fictional character that passes for a real person online.\"\n\nA number of techniques have been developed to determine whether accounts are sockpuppets, including comparing the IP addresses of suspected sockpuppets and comparative analysis of the writing style of suspected sockpuppets.\n\nIn 2008, 49-year-old Missouri resident Lori Drew was prosecuted and found guilty by a Federal court jury in connection with the creation of a MySpace account on which she claimed to be a 16-year-old boy named Josh Evans. Drew's goal had been to create a relationship with Megan Meier, a 13-year-old girl who had been in conflict with Drew's daughter. After \"Josh\" ended the relationship with Megan, Megan committed suicide. Drew was found guilty in connection with misrepresenting her identity in violation of the MySpace terms of service. \n\nAlthough the Los Angeles U.S. Attorney claimed that this conduct was covered by federal computer fraud legislation against \"accessing a computer without authorization via interstate commerce\", the trial court granted a motion by Drew to throw out the verdict. Drew successfully argued that her use of a false identity did not constitute unauthorized access to MySpace, citing a 1973 breach of contract dispute where a court of appeals ruled that \"fraudulently induced consent is consent nonetheless.\" The prosecution appealed the trial court judge's decision to throw out the guilty verdict, but later dropped its appeal.\n\nIn 2010, in \"People v. Golb\", 50-year-old lawyer Raphael Golb was convicted on 30 criminal charges, including identity theft, criminal impersonation, and aggravated harassment, for using multiple sockpuppet accounts to attack and impersonate historians he perceived as rivals of his father, Norman Golb. Golb defended his actions as \"satirical hoaxes\" protected by free-speech rights. He was disbarred and sentenced to six months in prison but remained free on appeal on $25,000 bail.\n\nIn 2014 a Florida state circuit court held that sock puppetry is tortious interference with business relations, and awarded injunctive relief against it during the pendency of litigation. The court found that \"the act of falsifying multiple identities\" is conduct that should be enjoined. It explained that the conduct was wrongful \"not because the statements are false or true, but because the conduct of making up names of persons who do not exist to post fake comments by fake people to support Defendants' position tortiously interferes with Plaintiffs' business\" and such \"conduct is inherently unfair.\" The court, therefore, ordered the defendants to \"remove or cause to be removed all postings creating the false impression that more [than one] person are commenting on the program th[an] actually exist.\" The court also found, however, that the comments of the defendants \"which do not create a false impression of fake patients or fake employees or fake persons connected to program (those posted under their respective names) are protected by The Constitution of the United State of America, First Amendment.\"\n\nIn 2007, the CEO of Whole Foods, John Mackey, was discovered to have posted as \"Rahodeb\" on the Yahoo Finance Message Board, extolling his own company and predicting a dire future for its rival, Wild Oats Markets, while concealing his relationship to both companies. Whole Foods argued that none of Mackey's actions broke the law.\n\nDuring the 2007 trial of Conrad Black, chief executive of Hollinger International, prosecutors alleged that he had posted messages on a Yahoo Finance chat room using the name \"nspector\", attacking short sellers and blaming them for his company's stock performance. Prosecutors provided evidence of these postings in Black's criminal trial where he was convicted of mail fraud and obstruction. The postings were raised at multiple points in the trial.\n\nAn Amazon.com computer glitch in 2004 revealed the names of many authors who had written reviews of their books using pseudonyms. John Rechy, who wrote the best-selling 1963 novel \"City of Night\", was one of the more famous authors unmasked in this way, and was shown to have written numerous five-star reviews of his own work. In 2010, historian Orlando Figes was found to have written Amazon reviews under the names \"orlando-birkbeck\" and \"historian\", praising his own books and condemning those of fellow historians Rachel Polonsky and Robert Service. The two sued Figes and won monetary damages. During a panel in 2012, UK fiction writer Stephen Leather admitted using pseudonyms to praise his own books, claiming that \"everyone does it\". He spoke of building a \"network of characters\", some operated by his friends, who discussed his books and had conversations with him directly. The same year, UK crime fiction writer RJ Ellory admitted having used a pseudonymous account name to write a positive review for each of his own novels, and additionally a negative review for two other authors.\n\nDavid Manning was a fictitious film critic, created by a marketing executive working for Sony Corporation to give consistently good reviews for releases from Sony subsidiary Columbia Pictures, which could then be quoted in promotional material.\n\nAmerican reporter Michael Hiltzik was temporarily suspended from posting to his blog, \"The Golden State\", on the \"Los Angeles Times\" website after he admitted \"posting there, as well as on other sites, under false names.\" He used the pseudonyms to attack conservatives such as Hugh Hewitt and L.A. prosecutor Patrick Frey—who eventually exposed him. Hiltzik's blog at the \"LA Times\" was the newspaper's first blog. While suspended from blogging, Hiltzik continued to write regularly for the newspaper.\n\nLee Siegel, a writer for \"The New Republic\" magazine, was suspended for defending his articles and blog comments under the user name \"Sprezzatura.\" In one such comment, \"Sprezzatura\" defended Siegel's bad reviews of Jon Stewart: \"Siegel is brave, brilliant and wittier than Stewart will ever be.\"\n\nAs an example of state-sponsored Internet sockpuppetry, In 2011, a California company called Ntrepid was awarded a $2.76 million contract from US Central Command for \"online persona management\" operations to create \"fake online personas to influence net conversations and spread US propaganda\" in Arabic, Persian, Urdu and Pashto. The activity was part of Operation Earnest Voice (OEV), a programme first developed in Iraq as a weapon of psychological warfare.\n\nOn September 11, 2014, a number of sockpuppet accounts reported an explosion at a chemical plant in Louisiana. The reports came on a range of media, including Twitter and YouTube, but US authorities claimed the entire event to be a hoax. The information was determined by many to have originated with a Russian government-sponsored sockpuppet management office in Saint Petersburg, called the Internet Research Agency. Russia was again implicated by the US intelligence community in 2016 for using paid trolls in the US Election.\n\nThe Institute of Economic Affairs claimed in a 2012 paper that the United Kingdom government, and the EU, fund charities whose purpose is to campaign and lobby for causes the government supports. In one example 73% of responses to a government consultation was the direct result of campaigns by alleged \"sock puppet\" organizations.\n\n"}
{"id": "4034567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4034567", "title": "Sonshine Festival", "text": "Sonshine Festival\n\nSonshine Festival is a Christian music festival held annually, starting in 1982 in Willmar, Minnesota and continuing in that location through 2014. That same year, festival organizers announced its relocation to Somerset, Wisconsin for 2015 onward because of an inability to attract sufficient people to the original location.\n\nA member of the Christian Festival Association, Sonshine has featured Christian musical artists from around the world. In 2012, the Newsboys recorded their live album at the festival. Since 2014, Sonshine is produced by Creation Festivals. Citing financial reasons, Sonshine 2017 was postponed, with \"hope and desire to see [it] return in 2018\", according to the festival's webpage. The festival is indefinitely on hiatus, awaiting the advent of new financial backers.\n\n"}
{"id": "28345171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28345171", "title": "Speed networking", "text": "Speed networking\n\nSpeed networking (or speed business meeting) is a meeting format designed to accelerate business contacts. \n\nSpeed networking basically involves participants gathering together to exchange information. Participants greet each other in a series of brief exchanges during a set period of time. During an interaction, participants share their professional backgrounds and business goals. Networkers are generally seeking exposure to new markets and/or expanding their pool of vendors.\n\nSpeed networking is often referenced as a derivative of speed dating, the round-robin approach to meeting potential suitors first developed by Rabbi Yaacov Deyo in the late 1990s. \n\nSpeed networking combines speed dating with business networking. It is thought to have started in the United States and/or the United Kingdom. Speed networking was first utilized during the early 2000s and began rising in popularity by the end of the decade. \n\nCredit for applying speed dating concepts to the corporate world has been attributed to Tom Jaffee, a founder of a speed-dating network. In the United Kingdom, speed networking was introduced by Michael Piddock, future founder of event technology company Glisser , to increase employee-to-employee connections in corporate events. \n\nAlthough the techniques for speed dating and speed networking can be similar – participants paired or grouped together for the purpose of introduction – the practices differ in their end goals. Speed daters are trying to narrow down their choices by eliminating the unsuitable; conversely, speed networkers are trying to broaden their connections by increasing their exposure.\n\nSpeed networking is based on three models\n\nMost speed networking events begin in an open room for Participants to mingle. The host then explains the structure of the event. The moderator will place time limits on the participants interactions, telling them when the time intervals have expired. if the event calls for participants to moved to preassigned tables or groups, the moderator will facilitate this.\n\nIn the Round Robin model, participants meet each other sequentially in random pairings. To facilitate movement of participants, the chairs in the room are often organized in two circles or facing rows of desks. \n\nThe host opens the first round of meetings, usually with a bell or buzzer. The two participants in each meeting introduce themselves, briefly summarizing their business histories and goals. They often exchange business cards and possibly additional information for a follow-up meeting. \n\nAfter a set time period of a few minutes, the host stops the first round of meetings. Then either the inner or outer circle participants – or the front or back line of desks – moves to the next space. Following a brief settling-in period, the host starts the second round of meetings. \n\nIn Round Robin speed networking, a participant would meet an average of 10 contacts during an hour-long event.\n\nIn the Station-based model, participants meet each other individually based on a pre-assignment. Prior to coming to the event, participants fill out a questionnaire listing their business background (job title and industry) and whom they wish to meet (suppliers, customers or vendors). The profiles are then matched electronically and a list of meetings is generated for participants based on their preferences. At the event, numbered stations are set up where participants meet with their assigned partners according to their list for a set period of time. A typical station-based speed networking event may yield 7 to 10 contacts during an hour-long event.\n\nIn the Group-based model, participants are assigned to a sequence of tables. Each table seats a specific number of participants, depending on attendance. A typical event may call for tables of four to 10. Table assignments are often predetermined by computer software but other techniques can be used to determine the groups each attendee participates in. Each participant at the table takes a few minutes – the length of these introductions can also be set – to introduce him or herself. Time at the table varies based on how the event organiser coordinate the event but usually lasts five to 15 minutes.\n\nSpeed networking has many applications. Many organizations use speed networking to structure events: alumni associations, chambers of commerce, business associations, universities and trade shows. Events that benefit from speed networking include: membership drives, networking events, mentoring programs, career fairs, team building exercises and vendor pairings. Speed networking is particularly useful \"when many organisations are gathering at large events.\"\n\nIn speed mentoring, the goal is to facilitate suitable relationships between mentors and mentees.matches. Speed mentoring sessions are typically \"a series of short, focused conversations about specific questions. You will meet with a limited number of mentees in 10-minute time slots each. When directed, mentees will proceed to their mentor's table.\"\n\nSpeed mentoring is effective because the mentee experiences several different interactions with prospective mentors in a short period of time. This maximises the opportunity to find a suitable mentor.\n\nSpeed mentoring events can be traced back to the architectural profession. In 2001-2003, Grace H. Kim, through her work as the Intern Development Program (IDP) Washington State Coordinator advocated for interns to find a mentor outside their firm. However, she found that many young interns, especially those new to Seattle, had a difficult time identifying potential mentors. In 2006, after Kim and Lee W. Waldrep co-hosted an American Institute of Architecture Students (AIAS) salon on mentorship at the National American Institute of Architects Convention, the idea of Speed Mentoring was born. \n\nAt the 2007 National AIA Convention, Kim and Waldrep co-presented a session entitled Speed Mentoring: Developing You, an Emerging Professional and over 100 attendees participated - representing the spectrum of interns to senior leadership. After a brief overview of mentorship and the available resources, this interactive session required attendees to participate in a live demonstration of the program. They were asked to stand in a line based on their number of years in the profession. Then the line was folded in half and individuals were asked to move their chairs to face one another. A bell was rung at which time the two facing individuals traded business cards, introduced themselves and shared what they were looking for in a mentoring relationship. At five minutes, the bell was rung again and one row of people moved two seats down. This process was repeated four times. While they were not asked to rank their top choices, the idea was that if this exercise were repeated at a local chapter or in a large office, the interns could rank their mentor preferences. And likewise, the mentor could rank their preferences for a protégé – hopefully resulting in a better mentor match.\nThe session was a success and was subsequently repeated at two National AIA Conventions (San Antonio and Boston). More importantly, the participants took the idea home to implement in various settings.\nSome universities have also established speed mentoring events including:\n\nOther industries in which speed mentoring events have been publicized include:\n\nSpeed networking has advantages over typical meet-and-greet events.\n\nSpeed networking facilitates the meeting of individuals who may not have had the opportunity to exchange information without a structured environment. Each attendee is \"guaranteed to meet more people than [he/she] typically would using traditional networking during the same amount of time.\" It relieves participants of the stress of introductions as attendees all have a single purpose. It rids the awkward \"exit\" by having time limits – no need to find a way to bow out of a conversation gracefully – and therefore increases the number of potential new meets.\n\nHowever, there are also risks for attendees, and these relate to an unfortunate perception that a business relationship can also be speed-tracked, as well as a misconception that quantity is of prime importance. Members still need to take time to develop relationships with individual fellow members outside the networking event and the importance of this cannot be overestimated. Other principles of good networking, such as an attitude of giving, not pushing, business cards or marketing material at people, for example, still stand. People can not just drop in during a round robin event as it disrupts the flow and matching.\n\nSpeed networking positions the host as an expert in information exchange and business leadership. It adds value to organizations whose structure is innate to business mingling, like alumni associations and chambers of commerce.\n\nThe different speed networking models have their own benefits. Group-based speed networking, for example, provides the opportunity to meet a maximum number of people with less stress on the participant or repetition of your personal information.\n"}
{"id": "34191020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34191020", "title": "St. Louis African Arts Festival", "text": "St. Louis African Arts Festival\n\nThe St. Louis African Arts Festival (also known as STLAAF or St. Louis African Arts Fair) is an annual arts and cultural festival in St. Louis, Missouri, which has been running since 1991. The STLAAF is a three-day event that takes place over the Memorial Day weekend. The African Arts Festival is a production of the St. Louis African Heritage Association, Inc. The St. Louis African Heritage Association, Inc. was established in 1995 and serves as the parent organization of the STLAAF and is a not-for-profit organization.\n\nThe St. Louis African Arts Festival began in 1991 as an artistic and cultural arm of the African Studies Association’s 34th Annual Conference hosted by Washington University in St. Louis. A variety of festival programs and activities were held throughout Greater St. Louis.\n\nThe St. Louis African Arts Festival is headquartered at Washington University in St. Louis. Cynthia L. Cosby, Manager of Special Projects and Program Coordinator for the Black Alumni Council for Washington University in St. Louis, is the festival founder.\n"}
{"id": "8432452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8432452", "title": "Star Idol", "text": "Star Idol\n\nStar Idol () was a Singaporean televised acting competition held in 2005 and aired on MediaCorp TV Channel 8. The competition was first announced through the Internet on 11 August 2005, and elimination rounds commenced on November 2 of the same year. The programme aired weekly on Wednesdays at 8:00pm and ended with a two-hour grand final on March 19, 2006.\n\nWhen the official announcement for Star Idol was made via Internet, an article posted asked for suggestions of the mascot. It was later decided that a large red gorilla that resembled King Kong would become the official mascot for Star Idol.\n\nTo be eligible for Star Idol, contestants must be either a Singaporean citizen or permanent resident and belong to the age range of 16 and 35. There was no specification for race, although fluency in the Chinese language is required due to the competition being Chinese-based. Auditions were held on September 3, 2005. Participants had to memorize dialogues from five scripts given, one of which would be randomly chosen by the panel of judges to be performed during the actual audition. Registration for the competition required a fee of S$10, which was paid on the day of the audition itself. An estimated total of 2,000 people auditioned for Star Idol.\n\nRoughly 500 people from the auditions made the cut and became part of the callbacks. The number of contestants was filtered down by a series of eliminations until only 10 male and female semi-finalists remained to compete in the quarter finals.\n\nThe quarter-finals saw the pairing up of one male and one female contestant. An ever-changing panel of judges would comment after an acting performance by each pair. However, the fates of the contestants were decided by public voting. Each week, one male and one female contestant is eliminated until 4 of each remain. The final 8 would proceed to the Semi-finals of the competition.\n\nTop 10 Female Quarter-finalists\n\nTop 10 Male Quarter-finalists\n\nAlicia Neo, Jacqueline Sue, Leann Koh, Lilian Lai, Bryan Wang, Kang Cheng Xi, Lincoln Khoo and Leo Lam became the eight Semi-finalists of Star Idol and had to compete in an interactive television drama titled Who Is It?. Episodes of Who Is It? were pre-recorded and aired every Wednesday at 8:00pm. The only shows recorded live were through the results shows at 10:30pm, with the exception of the episode on February 22, 2006. It was pre-recorded and aired at 11:30pm due to the airing of the eulogy of former Singapore Deputy Prime Minister Sinnathamby Rajaratnam at 10:30pm, who died earlier that day.\n\nWho Is It? also stars veteran actors San Yow and Ann Kok, who play a multimillionaire and his assistant respectively. A multimillionaire named Cao Wan Neng brings eight people who have crossed paths with him and at some points, helped him, to his island where he allows them to take a breather and relax. An assortment of events occurs on the island, with each episode ending with a cliffhanger. An anonymous scream takes place to conclude each episode, signifying the sudden disappearance of one of them. It is metaphorical for their running in the competition. The contestant with the least votes is eliminated from Star Idol and is identified in the next episode of the interactive drama as the character who goes missing.\n\nLilian Lai is the first contestant to leave after garnering the least among votes at the end of the first episode. In the Who Is It? universe, the remaining contestants become suspicious. A quack inspector called Inspector Zhu (Thomas Ong) is hired to investigate. Subsequently, more contestants are eliminated from the competition, namely Bryan, Leann and Lincoln, thus developing the story of the interactive drama.\n\nThe television series continue with contestants Leo and Jacqueline discovering that Cao Wan Neng is in fact an impostor donning a mask. Simultaneously, eliminated contestants Lilian, Leann, Bryan and Lincoln convene at a remote side of the island with the real Wan Neng, An assassin hired to kill them chases them to the sea, where Wan Neng finds a raft that may only accommodate another person apart from himself. This acts as a metaphor for the Wildcard episode, with only one contestant being allowed to return. When Bryan was successfully revived back into the competition as part of a Wildcard-like episode, his character was identified as the person whom Wan Neng rescued.\n\nThe assassin was never found and the imposter wearing Wan Neng's mask ran away. The former three contestants were badly injured and were taken to hospitals. Meanwhile, Jacqueline is investigating into her mother's past when she realises that Wan Neng might be biologically related to him. Her investigation becomes interrupted when suddenly goes missing. More suspects emerge, including An An, who was seen in red liquid all over her body the day after Alicia, the next contestant, goes missing. The red liquid was proved to be paint instead of blood, but Cheng Xi's romantic relationship with her ends. Bryan was thought to be a suspect once due to his unstable personality after Jacqueline, his girlfriend, became missing.\n\nThe last episode of the drama hinted the deaths of Alicia and Jacqueline. The villain behind these cases is Inspector Zhu, who already had intentions to kill them. The last scene of the interactive drama shows the inspector firing a gunshot, which fatally kills one of the three remaining contestants. Cheng Xi was eliminated from the competition, but the drama concluded without revealing if Bryan or Leo, the final two, was the sole survivor on the island.\n\nThe judging process of the finals differs from the semi-finals. The original production was replaced by a drama consisting of three acting segments that depicted two men competing to become an actor. Julian Hee plays a rich director of an acting company and being the judge for Leo and Bryan, who were auditioning to become actors.\n\nThe finals begins with Leo playing a tardy participant of an acting audition. Because of his lack of punctuality, Bryan begins first. The first segment consists of fighting scenes, where Bryan was in a bare-knuckle fight with Adam Chen and Leo did a sword fighting sequence with Zheng Geping.\n\nIn the second segment, Leo asks the director out on a date where he tells her that he has fallen for her. However, he is rejected. Meanwhile, at another side of the restaurant Leo is at, Bryan is with Paris (played by Felicia Chin), his girlfriend. The two of them kisses.\n\nWhen the 3 parts had ended, the actual judges of Star Idol revealed who they thought should be winner. All of them chose Bryan over Leo. However, their choices do not determine the results due to the competition being decided completely by public voting.\n\nBryan Wang was announced winner of Star Idol, who had garnered 61% of the total votes. He won himself a 2-year contract with Mediacorp.\n\nThe bottom two breakdown shows a Final 5 after the Top 5. This is because a revival round was held for the 4 ousted contestants, in which, Bryan (the eventual winner) was revived, forming the Final Five with the other four which got through the first four cuts.\n\nStar Idol was an acting competition, with format similar to singing competitions like Singapore Idol and Project Superstar, where the winner was determined by public voting instead of professional judging.\n\nThe interactive drama Who Is It? was criticised for its unrealistic and distracted nature. The ever-changing and unpredictable script of the drama also caused several storyline flaws and loopholes. Jacqueline drugged and attempted to rape Cheng Xi prior to her character \"disappearing\" from the television show. However, neither Cheng Xi nor her existing girlfriend Alicia were deemed suspects. Inspector Zhu played a completely innocent person and was seen investigating the cases even when he was alone and did not need to pretend. However, he was conclusively revealed as the ultimate villain of the show. It is justifiable that he was neurotic.\n\nOnly winner Bryan Wang and second-runner up Kang Cheng Xi were offered contracts with Mediacorp. Bryan's first role was playing Shu Tang in An Enchanted Life. Cheng Xi's first role was the second male lead after Li Nan Xing as Ma Lu in A Million Treasures. Other contestants like Lincoln, Alicia and Leann have appeared in minor roles or calefares that appear for less than a minute. Examples are Lincoln being a gangster. Leann has a larger role and plays Ma Lu's (Cheng Xi) first love interest who cheats on him. Jacqueline was offered a supporting role as Ah Lian, Joanne Peh's best friend, in Like Father Like Daughter, for which she received a Best Supporting Actress Star Awards nomination.\n\n"}
{"id": "9189512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9189512", "title": "Svante Stockselius", "text": "Svante Stockselius\n\nStig Svante Stockselius (born 31 December 1955 in Hudiksvall) is a Swedish journalist and television executive, former Head of Song Contests at the European Broadcasting Union, executive supervisor of the Eurovision Song Contest (ESC) and the Junior Eurovision Song Contest. Svante’s son is named Samuel Stockselius, and goes to a school in Stockholm. His daughter’s name is Lydia, and goes to a local school as well. His wife is a bruenette.\n\nSvante Stockselius grew up in Ockelbo, a small town in central Sweden. He started his career as a journalist. For 16 years, he worked for the Stockholm-based evening newspaper \"Expressen\".\n\nAs head of the entertainment division of the Swedish public service television company Sveriges Television from the late 1990s, he worked with the 2000 Eurovision Song Contest, held in Stockholm. He was also the architect of a major revamp of the Swedish ESC qualification competition, Melodifestivalen, in 2002, introducing four semi-finals and a Second Chance round preceding the finals.\n\nAfter Estonia's ESC victory in 2001, Stockselius was asked by the Estonian television channel ETV to take part in the preparations for the 2002 event. In 2002 he went on to work for the commercial Swedish television channel TV4. In 2003 he was offered the job as ESC Executive Supervisor. It was announced on 30 August 2010 that he would be resigning after the Junior Eurovision Song Contest 2010 to \"give others the opportunity to take the event to the next level\". In November 2010 Norwegian television executive Jon Ola Sand was appointed the new executive supervisor of the ESC.\n\n"}
{"id": "871592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=871592", "title": "Teknival", "text": "Teknival\n\nTeknivals (the word is a portmanteau of the words tekno and festival) are large free parties which take place worldwide. They take place most often in Europe and are often illegal under various national or regional laws. They vary in size from dozens to thousands of people, depending on factors such as accessibility, reputation, weather, and law enforcement. The parties often take place in venues far away from residential areas such as squatted warehouses, empty military bases, beaches, forests or fields. The teknival phenomenon is a grassroots movement which has grown out of the rave, punk, reggae sound system and UK traveller scenes and spawned an entire subculture. Summer is the usual season for teknivals.\n\nTeknivals are a larger scale version of free parties and emerged in the early 1990s, when acid house parties and travellers in Great Britain became the target of political repression, culminating in the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994. Section 63 of the Act gave the police new powers to close down illegal parties.\n\nSound systems then started travelling to countries in Europe where laws were less restrictive and the authorities were uncertain how to stop the festivals. One of the most famous of these sound systems was Spiral Tribe, which was at the forefront of the free party movement in Europe. Other systems were called Bedlam, Circus Normal, Circus Warp and Vox Populi. Desert Storm sound system organised teknivals in France and Spain and brought raves to war-torn Sarajevo, Bosnia, in 1996. At one party the front-line was 10 kilometres away and they were asked to turn off their lights in case they attracted enemy fire.\n\nWhile some teknivals are one-off events, most take place every year on or around the same date; the biggest, such as the ones in France or Czech Republic, can attract up to 100,000 visitors (2003, France).\n\nJust as the word 'teknival' was formed by merging the words 'tekno' and 'festival', teknivals in different countries are referred to by abbreviated names, such as the aforementioned Czechtek, Frenchtek (North France) and also Poltek (Poland), Slovtek (Slovakia), Southtek (South Germany), Bulgariatek (Bulgaria), Rotek(Romania) Helltek(Greece, Hellas in Greek), Dutchtek (Netherlands), Easttek (East Germany), U-Tek (Ukraine), Northtek (Canada) and Occitek (Occitania, South France). NorthTek was held on Crown Land in Ontario.\n\nSince a teknival can last a week or longer, many musical styles will be represented. The music which grew in tandem with teknivals was free tekno, which is characterised by heavy, repetitive kick drums and is normally about 180 bpm. The DJs and party goers are unconcerned by musical boundaries, so a lot of different, mostly electronic, music is played and performed.\n\nMost sound systems play styles such as acidcore, acid techno, hardcore, spiral tekno,frenchcore, electro, techno, jungle music, raggacore, skullstep, neurofunk, breakcore, schranz and speedcore. Instead of focusing on genre, the music can be characterised by being more underground than the music heard in clubs and at commercial parties, although some sound systems might specialise in a certain subgenre. The music is played by DJs playing vinyl records and Mp3 files on a computer. Livesets are also frequently played using a variety of equipment: keyboards, drum machines, guitar effects pedals, MIDI controller and computers.\n\nAt early teknivals, sound systems would play until either no-one was left dancing or the diesel ran out in the generator.\n\nThe teknival is often regarded as an example of what Hakim Bey has termed the Temporary Autonomous Zone, though in interviews Bey has professed that rave culture's interest in technology remains problematic for the implementation of the TAZ. However this has not stopped various groups from claiming the teknival and rave culture in general as the implementation of the TAZ.\n\nAnyone is welcome to enter the site, there is no ticket or fee. Normally any artist who turns up is encouraged to participate. Over the course of a few days the site can grow into a confusing village of sound systems, cafes, tents and vehicles.\n\nAt the teknival site one finds a mixed group of young people which may include students, tekno travellers, squatters and hippies, bonded together by their love for listening to free tekno 'sous les etoiles' (translation: 'under the stars') - as an early flyer proclaimed.\n\nIt is usually the perception that there is no \"coherent\" politics or philosophical stance represented by the teknival subculture, mainly due to the fact that emphasis is placed on individual freedom. Many young teknival goers are disillusioned with mainstream politics. Nevertheless, the parties themselves require complex collective organisation and, in order to be successful, a sustainable environment of community relations. In themselves such events can be seen as a political statement of self-organisation at a distance from the State. Clashes with the police have mobilised some people to action against laws which would prohibit self-organisation and gathering to enjoy teknivals. These clashes date back to the '80s (when teknivals were arguably indistinguishable from UK Orbital raves, summer acid house parties, UK traveller gatherings, Stonehenge pagan events, early Burning Man and tribal gatherings, trance parties in Goa, India and the like) and have continued to be part of teknival life. In April 2006 there was a march followed by a small teknival in Strasbourg, France to protest against police repression generally and more specifically against the closure of Czechtek in 2005. During the implementation of the Criminal Justice Act in the UK, various large-scale protests took place during daylight and in public. The Reclaim the Streets and Carnivals Against Capital of the '90s that led up to and beyond the Seattle WTO protests (and subsequent \"anti-globalization\" events) drew from teknival and rave organisation and culture, often involving many of the same organisers and cross-section of the population.\n\nAs occurs with many subcultures, a dress code has developed. This 'underground look' involves dark, baggy clothing (often ex-military) and extreme haircuts, such as dyed hair, dreadlocks or a shaved head (or a combination of the above). (1999:164) Body piercings and tattoos are common. People often buy large vehicles second-hand such as decommissioned buses, coaches or trucks. The vehicles are often primarily homes, lived in permanently or for a few months while travelling (see Irish Traveller). They are also used to transport sound equipment. The \"tekno traveller\" is generally known as a mix between a New Age traveller and a \"crusty\" punk.\n\nSound systems gather on the site and play varied types of electronic music. Along with each sound system come friends and travellers so most teknivals have a multicultural atmosphere. The parties can last for several days or even weeks. Teknivals are organised by the sound system community using underground methods such as word of mouth, answerphone messages, flyer (pamphlet) and internet discussion boards. Normally the flyer states that the party is an open invitation, thus any artist who turns up can play music. The emphasis is on a DIY ethic. As well as local sound systems, who might act as the hosts, larger sound systems can spend the summer travelling from one teknival to the next before returning to their home country for the winter.\n\nAs thousands of sound systems proliferated post-Spiral Tribe, France rapidly became the center of the teknival world. The May Day teknival at Fontainebleau near Paris was attracting 60-80,000 people by the late 1990s and, by 2004, as a for once legitimate (but still non-commercial) event, up to 110,000 with over 200 sound systems. Eventual amendments to the public safety laws, the Loi sur la Securité Quotidienne, were passed in 2002 (known as the “Mariani Law” named after politician Thierry Mariani) in which free parties became linked with terrorism. Like the UK’s CJA, this effectively criminalized large free festivals and increased police powers to prevent these events. Legitimate teknivals, now dubbed “Sarkovals” after Nicolas Sarkozy (formerly the Minister of the Interior and President) would require permission from the Ministry. But while regulatory interventions have inaugurated the institutionalization and commercialization of a scene rooted in an autonomous vibe, the scene still thrives. Currently French law permits free parties with 500 people or under (subject to no noise complaints), and while Prefets generally refuse the applications now required for free parties with over 500 people, through constant negotiations with the Ministry of Interior since the August 2002 teknival on the French/Italian frontier at Col de l’Arches where sound crews set up rigs inside the Italian border facing the party goers in France, the French Government have reluctantly allowed up to three large teknivals each year, even though they are technically unauthorized events. Teknivals also take place outside legal festivals such as Printemps de Bourges, Transmusicales in Rennes or Borealis in Montpellier. Teknival negotiators deal directly with the Ministry of Interior, not the Ministry of Culture (with whom the commercial ventures seeking official status must deal) indicating that they are largely not cultural but security concerns.\n\nIn the United Kingdom teknivals have occurred again, despite huge police attention. In 2002 the tenth anniversary of the legendary Castlemorton rave was celebrated at Steart Beach called the Feeling-Of-Life where around 16,000 people turned up over the course of the weekend. in Somerset (there had also been a smaller teknival at the same location one year previously). In 2005 there was a UK Tek in Wales and also a teknival known as Scumtek that happened twice in London. The first Scumtek was stopped by the police. However a further four events have taken place under the Scumtek name, three of which were squats with teknival rig numbers, and Scumtek 3 which took place in the centre of London Docklands in April 2010 outside and inside with 23 rigs in attendance. the UK Teks seemed to be gathering pace in 2010 mainly due to the increasing pressure on legal festivals for policing costs and licensing restrictions.\n\n2006 saw a teknival occur in Camelford, Cornwall at Davidstow abandoned airfield. Approximately 2,500 people attended and it was eventually clamped down on by the police three days after it began. UK Tek 2008 took place in a moorland quarry above Rochdale in north Manchester resulting in a significant police response, including attacking ravers with batons. Dog units, mounted police, and police in full riot gear attended. The UK Tek in 2009 took place on a remote hillside near Brecon, Wales at an abandoned pub called The Drovers Arms, that is used by the MOD as a training location. In 2010 UK Tek was at Dale Aerodrome in Pembrokeshire, Wales again with approximately 2,500 attendees and police forced most people off site by the Sunday. In 2015 it took place in Lincolnshire at an old airfield that had been used in the past for raves. Police closed down soundsystems one by one, until the remaining system had the majority of ravers around it, and resisted Police lines and forced them to back down. 2017 UK Tek took place in Wales near Sennybridge, Brecon.\n\nIn May 2018, a very large rave was organised in the small Welsh town of Brechfa. Known famously as 'UK Tek', the rave started at 12am on Saturday with the music not finishing until late Monday evening. Approximately 4000 people were in attendance at one point. The location of the rave was praised for its outstanding views across the Welsh countryside. Wales police were aware of the rave, but didn't have the resources available to disperse such a large crowd of people and were not keen on sparking a similar incident to that of Uk Tek 2015. A police helicopter was used throughout the bank holiday weekend to monitor the actions on the ground. Late on Tuesday evening, rave attendees were still seen at the location cleaning up the majority of litter left behind.\n\nIn the Czech Republic was mainly known teknivals: Czechtek - annually held from a small festival in 1994, which attracted up to 40,000 visitors, and Czarotek (held annually in spring). When Czechtek has been discontinued after event in Hradiště Military Area in 2006, more smaller open free parties are held through all the year. Czech travellers like Circus Alien, Strahov or Vosa continued to spread the vibe to various countries across Europe such as Bulgaria (from 2003), Romania, Spain, Poland or Ukraine (from 2006).\n\nWell known in the underground culture is the Bulgariatek, which emerged from 2003 and annually takes place in early August, usually somewhere on the Black Sea coast. It hosts many different electronics genres with much techno at first place. Many people come to it every year. During the second event on 6.8.2004 until 23.8.2004, the participating sound systems were: Vosa + Morophonic Harampade (cz), Strahov + Oktekk + Aka.IO + Machine Works (cz), Keine Ahnung (sk), Dejavu (cz), Aphrikka + Gardenzitty + Tekknotice (cz). On Saturday Hekate (gb,fr) and Okupe + Tomahawk (fr) came and join. Other smaller free parties occur in the summer too.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50730325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50730325", "title": "The Greenlanders", "text": "The Greenlanders\n\nThe Greenlanders is a 1984 historical-fiction epic novel by American author Jane Smiley.\n\nThe novel gives a speculative account of the Norse inhabitation of Greenland in the 14th and 15th centuries, written in the style of an Icelandic or Norse saga.\n\n\"The Greenlanders\" describes the daily affairs of Nordic settlers living in medieval southern Greenland, including marriages, births, deaths, famines, epidemics, trials at the Thing, church affairs, land feuds, seal hunts, military invasions, and encounters with Greenland's aboriginal inhabitants.\n\nIn particular, the book follows the lives of Gunnar Asgeirsson, an unlucky, violent, litigious man, and his sister, Margret Asgeirsdottir, a quiet, solitary, melancholic woman on their homestead in the Vatnahverfi district. Though the novel also follows the lives of many other Greenlanders, Gunnar and Margret function as the novel's protagonists. The novel also features several historically documented individuals and events in Greenland and elsewhere, including the spread of Islam into southern Europe, assaults on Greenlanders' settlements by English raiders, and the witchcraft trial of Kolgrim.\n\n\"The Greenlanders\" was reviewed favorably. Kirkus Reviews called it a \"bleak, stirring picture of the slow slouch towards the death of a civilization.\" In a 2010 Time article, American author Jonathan Franzen included it in his list of influential books, and in an interview with Big Think, Franzen said, \"I do not know of a better American novel within the last twenty years\" than \"The Greenlanders\".\n"}
{"id": "2302825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302825", "title": "Three Hours' Agony", "text": "Three Hours' Agony\n\nThe Three Hours' Agony, \"Tre Ore\". The Great Three Hours, or Three Hours' Devotion is a service held in some Roman Catholic, Anglican, and Lutheran churches on Good Friday from noon till 3 o'clock to commemorate the Passion of Christ.\n\nIt may include meditation on the seven sayings of Jesus on the cross, and often occurs between the Stations of the Cross at noon and the Liturgy of the Lord's Passion at 3PM, or between 6PM and 9PM.\n\nThe Jesuit priest Alphonsus Messia (died 1732) is said to have devised this devotion in Lima, Peru. It was introduced to Rome around 1788 and spread around the world. In 1815, Pope Pius VII decreed a plenary indulgence to those who practise this devotion on Good Friday.\n\n"}
{"id": "1599800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1599800", "title": "Via Dolorosa", "text": "Via Dolorosa\n\nThe Via Dolorosa (Latin for \"Way of Grief,\" \"Way of Sorrow,\" \"Way of Suffering\" or simply \"Painful Way\"; Hebrew: ויה דולורוזה; ) is a street within the Old City of Jerusalem, believed to be the path that Jesus walked on the way to his crucifixion. The winding route from the Antonia Fortress west to the Church of the Holy Sepulchre—a distance of about 600 metres (2,000 feet)—is a celebrated place of Christian pilgrimage. The current route has been established since the 18th century, replacing various earlier versions. It is today marked by nine Stations of the Cross; there have been fourteen stations since the late 15th century, with the remaining five stations being inside the Church of the Holy Sepulchre.\n\nThe Via Dolorosa is the modern remnant of one of the two main east-west routes (\"Decumanus Maximus\") through Aelia Capitolina, as built by Hadrian. Standard Roman city design places the main east-west road through the middle of the city, but the presence of the Temple Mount in the middle of this position required Hadrian's planners to add an extra east-west road at its north. In addition to the usual central north-south road (\"cardo\"), which in Jerusalem headed straight up the western hill, a second major north-south road was added down the line of the Tyropoeon Valley; these two cardines converge near the Damascus Gate, close to the Via Dolorosa. If the Via Dolorosa had continued west in a straight line across the two routes, it would have formed a triangular block too narrow to construct standard buildings; the decumanus (now the Via Dolorosa) west of the Cardo was constructed south of its eastern portion, creating the discontinuity in the road still present today.\n\nThe first reports of a pilgrimage route corresponding to the Biblical events dates from the Byzantine era; during that time, a Holy Thursday procession started from the top of the Mount of Olives, stopped in Gethsemane, entered the Old City at the Lions' Gate, and followed approximately the current route to the Church of the Holy Sepulchre; however, there were no actual stops during the route along the Via Dolorosa itself. By the 8th century, however, the route went via the western hill instead; starting at Gethsemane, it continued to the alleged \"House of Caiaphas\" on Mount Zion, then to Hagia Sophia (viewed as the site of the Praetorium), and finally to the Church of the Holy Sepulchre.\nDuring the Middle Ages, the Roman Catholics of Jerusalem split into two factions, one controlling the churches on the western hill, the other the churches on the eastern hill; they each supported the route which took pilgrims past the churches the faction in question controlled, one arguing that the Roman Governor's mansion (\"Praetorium\") was on Mount Zion (where they had churches), the other that it was near the Antonia Fortress (where they had churches).\n\nIn fourteenth century, Pope Clement VI achieved some consistency in route with the Bull, \"Nuper Carissimae,\" establishing the Franciscan Custody of the Holy Land, and charging the friars with \"the guidance, instruction, and care of Latin pilgrims as well as with the guardianship, maintenance, defense and rituals of the Catholic shrines of the Holy Land.\" Beginning around 1350, Franciscan friars conducted official tours of the Via Dolorosa, from the Holy Sepulchre to the House of Pilate—opposite the direction traveled by Christ in Bible. The route was not reversed until c. 1517 when the Franciscans began to follow the events of Christ’s Passion chronologically-setting out from the House of Pilate and ending with the crucifixion at Golgotha.\n\nFrom the onset of Franciscan administration, the development of the Via Dolorosa was intimately linked to devotional practices in Europe. The Friars Minor were ardent proponents of devotional meditation as a means to access and understand the Passion. The hours and guides they produced, such as \"Meditaciones vite Christi\" (MVC), were widely circulated in Europe.\n\nNecessarily, such devotional literature expanded on the terse accounts of the Via Dolorosa in the Bible; the period of time between just after Christ’s condemnation by Pilate and just before his crucifixion receives no more than a few verses in the four Gospels. Throughout the fourteenth century, a number of events, marked by stations on the Via Dolorosa, emerged in devotional literature and on the physical site in Jerusalem.\n\nThe first stations to appear in pilgrimage accounts were the Encounter with Simon of Cyrene and the Daughters of Jerusalem. These were followed by a host of other, more or less ephemeral, stations, such as the House of Veronica, the House of Simon the Pharisee, the House of the Evil Rich Man Who Would Not Give Alms to the Poor, and the House of Herod. In his book, \"The Stations of the Cross\", Herbert Thurston notes: \"... Whether we look to the sites which, according to the testimony of travelers, were held in honor in Jerusalem itself, or whether we look to the imitation pilgrimages which were carved in stone or set down in books for the devotion of the faithful at home, we must recognize that there was a complete want of any sort of uniformity in the enumeration of the Stations.\"\n\nThis negotiation of stations, between the European imagination and the physical site would continue for the next six centuries. Only in the 19th century was there general accord on the position of the first, fourth, fifth, and eighth stations. Ironically, archaeological discoveries in the 20th century now indicate that the early route of the Via Dolorosa on the Western hill was actually a more realistic path.\n\nThe equation of the present Via Dolorosa with the biblical route is based on the assumption that the Praetorium was adjacent to the Antonia Fortress. However, like Philo, the late-first-century writer Josephus testifies that the Roman governors of Roman Judaea, who governed from Caesarea Maritima on the coast, stayed in Herod's palace while they were in Jerusalem, carried out their judgements on the pavement immediately outside it, and had those found guilty flogged there; Josephus indicates that Herod's palace is on the western hill, and it has recently (2001) been rediscovered under a corner of the Jaffa Gate citadel. Furthermore, it is now confirmed by archaeology that prior to Hadrian's 2nd-century alterations (see Aelia Capitolina), the area adjacent to the Antonia Fortress was a large open-air pool of water.\n\nIn 2009, Israeli archaeologist Shimon Gibson found the remains of a large paved courtyard south of the Jaffa Gate between two fortification walls with an outer gate and an inner one leading to a barracks. The courtyard contained a raised platform of around . A survey of the ruins of the Praetorium, long thought to be the Roman barracks, indicated it was no more than a watchtower. These findings together \"correspond perfectly\" with the route as described in the Gospels and matched details found in other ancient writings.\n\nThe route traced by Gibson begins in a parking lot in the Armenian Quarter, then passes the Ottoman walls of the Old City next to the Tower of David near the Jaffa Gate before turning towards the Church of the Holy Sepulcher. The new research also indicates the crucifixion site is around from the traditionally accepted site.\n\nThe traditional route starts just inside the Lions' Gate\n(St. Stephen's Gate) in the Muslim Quarter, at the Umariya Elementary School, near the location of the former Antonia Fortress, and makes its way westward through the Old City to the Church of the Holy Sepulchre in the Christian Quarter. The current enumeration is partly based on a circular devotional walk, organised by the Franciscans in the 14th century; their devotional route, heading east along the Via Dolorosa (the opposite direction to the usual westward pilgrimage), began and ended at the Church of the Holy Sepulchre, also passing through both Gethsemane and Mount Zion during its course.\n\nWhereas the names of many roads in Jerusalem are translated into English, Hebrew, and Arabic for their signs, the name used in Hebrew is \"Via Dolorosa\", transliterated. The Arabic name is the translation of \"way of pain.\"\n\nThe first and second stations commemorate the events of Jesus' encounter with Pontius Pilate, the former in memorial of the biblical account of the trial and Jesus' subsequent scourging, and the latter in memorial of the Ecce Homo speech, attributed by the Gospel of John to Pilate. On the site are three early 19th-century Roman Catholic churches, taking their names from these events; the Church of the Condemnation and Imposition of the Cross, Church of the Flagellation, and Church of Ecce Homo; a large area of Roman paving, beneath these structures, was traditionally regarded as the \"pavement\" () described by the Bible as the location of Pilate's judgment of Jesus.\n\nHowever, scholars are now fairly certain that Pilate carried out his judgements at Herod's Palace at the southwest side of the city, rather than at this point in the city's northeast corner. Archaeological studies have confirmed that the Roman pavement, at these two traditional stations, was built by Hadrian as the flooring of the eastern of two Forums. Prior to Hadrian's changes, the area had been a large open-air pool of water, the \"Strouthion Pool\" mentioned by Josephus; the pool still survives, under vaulting added by Hadrian so that the Forum could be built over it, and can be accessed from the portion of Roman paving under the Convent of the Sisters of Zion, and from the Western Wall Tunnel.\n\nAdjacent to the Church of Ecce Homo is an arch, running across the Via Dolorosa; this arch was originally the central arch of a triple-arched gateway, built by Hadrian as the main entrance to the aforementioned Forum. When later building works narrowed the Via Dolorosa, the two arches on either side of the central arch became incorporated into a succession of buildings; on the northern side, the Church of Ecce Homo now preserves the north arch; on the southern side, in the 16th century the south arch.\n\nThe three northern churches were gradually built after the site was partially acquired in 1857 by Marie-Alphonse Ratisbonne, a Jesuit who intended to use it as a base for proselytism against Judaism. The most recent church of the three – the Church of the Flagellation – was built during the 1920s; above the high altar, under the central dome, is a mosaic on a golden ground showing \"The Crown of Thorns Pierced by Stars\", and the church also contains modern stained-glass windows depicting \"Christ Scourged at the Pillar\", \"Pilate Washing his Hands\", and the \"Freeing of Barabbas\". The Convent, which includes the Church of Ecce Homo, was the first part of the complex to be built, and contains the most extensive archaeological remains. Prior to Ratisbonne's purchase, the site had lain in ruins for many centuries; the Crusaders had previously constructed a set of buildings here, but they were later abandoned.\n\nAlthough no such thing is recounted by the canonical Gospels, and no official Christian tenet makes these claims, popular tradition has it that Jesus stumbled three times during his walk along the route; this belief is currently manifested in the identification of the three stations at which these \"falls\" occurred. The tradition of the three falls appears to be a faded memory of an earlier belief in \"The Seven Falls\"; these were not necessarily literal \"falls\", but rather depictions of Jesus coincidentally being prostrate, or nearly so, during performance of some other activity. In the (then) famous late-15th-century depiction of the \"Seven Falls\", by Adam Krafft, there is only one of the \"Falls\" that is actually on the subject of Jesus stumbling under the weight of the cross, the remaining \"Falls\" being either encounters with people on the journey, the crucifixion itself, or the removal of the dead body from the cross.\nThe first fall is represented by the current third station, located at the west end of the eastern fraction of the Via Dolorosa, adjacent to the 19th-century \"Polish Catholic Chapel\"; this chapel was constructed by the Armenian Catholics, who though ethnically Armenian, are actually based in Poland. The 1947–48 renovations, to the 19th-century chapel, were carried out with the aid of a large financial grant from the Polish army. The site was previously one of the city's Turkish baths.\n\nThe second fall is represented by the current seventh station, located at a major crossroad junction, adjacent to a Franciscan chapel, built in 1875. In Hadrian's era, this was the junction of the main cardo (north-south road), with the decumanus (east-west road) which became the Via Dolorosa; the remains of a tetrapylon, which marked this Roman junction, can be seen in the lower level of the Franciscan chapel. Prior to the 16th century, this location was the 8th and last station.\n\nThe third fall is represented by the current ninth station, which is not actually located on the Via Dolorosa, instead being located at the entrance to the Ethiopian Orthodox Monastery and the Coptic Orthodox \"Monastery of Saint Anthony\", which together form the roof structure of the subterranean \"Chapel of Saint Helena\" in the Church of the Holy Sepulchre; the Coptic and Ethiopian Orthodox churches split in 1959, and prior to that time the monastic buildings were considered a single Monastery. However, in the early 16th century, the third fall was located at the entrance courtyard to the Church of the Holy Sepulchre, and an engraved stone cross signifying this still remains in situ. Prior to the 15th century, the final station occurred before this point would even have been reached.\n\nFour stations commemorate encounters between Jesus and other people, in the city streets; one encounter is mentioned in all the Synoptic Gospels, one is mentioned only in the Gospel of Luke, and the remaining two encounters only exist in popular tradition.\n\nThe New Testament makes no mention of a meeting between Jesus and his mother, during the walk to his crucifixion, but popular tradition introduces one. The fourth station, the location of a 19th-century Armenian Catholic oratory, commemorates the events of this tradition; a lunette, over the entrance to the chapel, references these events by means of a bas-relief carved by the Polish artist Zieliensky. The oratory, named \"Our Lady of the Spasm\", was built in 1881, but its crypt preserves some archaeological remains from former Byzantine buildings on the site, including a mosaic floor.\n\nThe fifth station refers to the biblical episode in which Simon of Cyrene takes Jesus' cross, and carries it for him. Although this narrative is included in the three Synoptic Gospels, the Gospel of John does not mention Simon of Cyrene but instead emphasizes the portion of the journey during which Jesus carried the cross himself. The current traditional site for the station is located at the east end of the western fraction of the Via Dolorosa, adjacent to the \"Chapel of Simon of Cyrene\", a Franciscan construction built in 1895. An inscription, in the architrave of one of the Chapel doors, references the Synoptic events.\n\nPrior to the 15th century, this location was instead considered to be the \"House of the Poor Man\", and honoured as the fifth station for that reason; the name refers to the Lukan tale of Lazarus and Dives, this Lazarus being a beggar, and \"Dives\" being the Latin word for \"[one who is] Rich\". Adjacent to the alleged \"House of the Poor Man\" is an arch over the road; the house on the arch was thought to be the corresponding \"House of the Rich Man\". The houses in question, however, only date to the Middle Ages, and the narrative of Lazarus and Dives is now widely held to be a parable.\n\nA medieval Roman Catholic legend viewed a specific piece of cloth, known as the \"Veil of Veronica\", as having been supernaturally imprinted with Jesus' image, by physical contact with Jesus' face. By metathesis of the Latin words \"vera icon\" (meaning \"true image\") into \"Veronica\", it came to be said that the \"Veil of Veronica\" had gained its image when a \"Saint Veronica\" encountered Jesus, and wiped the sweat from his face with the cloth; no element of this legend is present in the Bible, although the similar \"Image of Edessa\" is mentioned in \"The Epistles of Jesus Christ and Abgarus King of Edessa\", a late piece of New Testament apocrypha. The \"Veil of Veronica\" relates to a pre-Crucifixion image, and is distinct from the post-Crucifixion Holy Face image, often related to the Shroud of Turin.\n\nThe current sixth station of the Via Dolorosa commemorates this legendary encounter between Jesus and Veronica. The location was identified as the site of the encounter in the 19th century; in 1883, Greek Roman Catholics purchased the 12th-century ruins at the location, and built the \"Church of the Holy Face and Saint Veronica\" on them, claiming that Veronica had encountered Jesus outside her own house, and that the house had formerly been positioned at this spot. The church includes some of the remains of the 12th-century buildings which had formerly been on the site, including arches from the Crusader-built \"Monastery of Saint Cosmas\". The present building is administered by the \"Little Sisters of Jesus\", and is not generally open to the public.\n\nThe Eighth station commemorates an episode described by the Gospel of Luke, alone among the canonical gospels, in which Jesus encounters \"pious women\" on his journey, and is able to stop and give a sermon. However, prior to the 15th century the final station in Jesus' walk was believed to occur at a point earlier on the Via Dolorosa, before this location would have been reached. The present eighth station is adjacent to the Greek Orthodox \"Monastery of Saint Charalampus\"; it is marked by the word \"Nika\" (a Greek word meaning \"Victory\") carved into the wall, and an embossed cross.\n\nEach Friday, a Roman Catholic procession walks the Via Dolorosa route, starting out at the monastic complex by the first station; the procession is organized by the Franciscans of this monastery, who also lead the procession. Acted re-enactments also regularly take place on the route, ranging from amateur productions with, for example, soldiers wearing plastic helmets and vivid red polyester wraps, to more professional drama with historically accurate clothing and props.\n\nThe seat of the Coptic Orthodox Patriarchate in Jerusalem is located on the roof of the Church of the Holy Sepulchre. At the entrance of the Patriarchate is a column with a cross on it, marking the 9th Station of the Via Dolorosa. In 1980 Pope Shenouda III of Alexandria (3 August 1923 – 17 March 2012) had forbidden Coptic faithful from traveling to Jerusalem on pilgrimage until the Israeli-Palestinian conflict was resolved. However, despite the ban, dozens of Coptic pilgrims travel to Jerusalem every year, especially during the Easter holidays.\n\n\n"}
