{"id": "33757389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33757389", "title": "Back to Work (book)", "text": "Back to Work (book)\n\nBack to Work: Why We Need Smart Government for a Strong Economy is a 2011 non-fiction book by former United States President Bill Clinton. Praise appeared in publications such as the \"Los Angeles Times\" and the \"New York Journal of Books\", while publications such as \"The Guardian\" published more mixed reviews.\n\nClinton writes that the American government faces considerable challenges that it is fundamentally struggling to deal with, problems affecting culture and society as well as the current economy. He argues that Americans \"have to get back in the future business.\" He specifically blames a mindset articulated by ideological conservatives and their allies in the modern Republican Party, particularly those connected to the Tea Party movement, for emphasizing cutting government spending and lowering regulations over what he sees as pragmatic government actions that create economic growth and prosperity. Rather than having an inherently anti-government mindset that causes Americans to \"hog-tie ourselves\", Clinton states that they \"need a strong, effective private sector and a strong, effective government that work together\".\n\nHe describes various areas such as high-school graduations where the U.S. has fallen behind compared to other countries. Clinton concludes, \"Over the last three decades, whenever we’ve given in to blame the government for all our problems, we’ve lost our commitment to shared prosperity, balanced growth, financial responsibility, and investment in the future.\" He criticizes both American parties for not being up to the task of fighting the major economic slowdown, though he writes from a lens of clear sympathy for President Barack Obama and the Congressional Democrats in the face of Republican opposition. \"From 1981 to 2009,\" he writes, looking back to the economy pre-recession, \"the greatest accomplishment of the anti-government Republicans was not to reduce the size of the federal government but to stop paying for it.\"\n\nIn terms of specific policies, Clinton advocates changes such as raising the cap on Social Security taxes, reducing military-related spending, and reforming the payment system to medical providers in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. As well, he discusses fighting loopholes in the U.S. tax code, citing how ExxonMobil made $10.7 billion in profits during the second quarter of 2011 with an effective tax rate of only 17.6% (less than the average tax rate of 20.4% for individual Americans). He broadly writes in support of the viewpoints of the bipartisan Simpson-Bowles Commission.\n\n\"The Guardian\" published a mixed review, with author Erik Tarloff arguing that \"the book is almost devoid of human interest or any hint of the man's vivid, outsize personality\" but also that Clinton had sounded \"informed, high-minded, intelligent and persuasive\" in making policy recommendations. He viewed parts of the book as \"deadly dull\" with others \"shrewd and convincing\", and he claimed that only \"in a country whose notionally conservative party has gone so far off the rails would anyone even have bothered to write it.\" Tarloff also wrote, \"Everything in it is worthy, but only a wonk (or a reviewer) would want to read it to the end.\"\n\nFinancial journalist Andrew Rosenbaum praised the work for the \"New York Journal of Books\". He wrote, \"President Clinton offers straightforward policy options, supported by statistics and documentation— and what a welcome bit of refreshment this is\". He also lauded the book's \"extremely detailed\" points of policy advice.\n\n\"The Los Angeles Times\" also published a supportive review. Reporter Carolyn Kellogg wrote that Clinton had authored \"a book with the chutzpah that the Democrats have been missing.\" She also remarked,\n\n\n"}
{"id": "558825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=558825", "title": "Barbary pirates", "text": "Barbary pirates\n\nThe Barbary pirates, sometimes called Barbary corsairs or Ottoman corsairs, were Ottoman and Maghrebis pirates and privateers who operated from North Africa, based primarily in the ports of Salé, Rabat, Algiers, Tunis, and Tripoli. This area was known in Europe as the Barbary Coast, a term derived from the name of its Berber inhabitants. Their predation extended throughout the Mediterranean, south along West Africa's Atlantic seaboard and into the North Atlantic as far north as Iceland, but they primarily operated in the western Mediterranean. In addition to seizing merchant ships, they engaged in \"Razzias\", raids on European coastal towns and villages, mainly in Italy, France, Spain, and Portugal, but also in the British Isles, the Netherlands, and as far away as Iceland. The main purpose of their attacks was to capture Christian slaves for the Ottoman slave trade as well as the general Arab slavery market in North Africa and the Middle East.\n\nWhile such raids had occurred since soon after the Muslim conquest of Iberia, the terms \"Barbary pirates\" and \"Barbary corsairs\" are normally applied to the raiders active from the 16th century onwards, when the frequency and range of the slavers' attacks increased. In that period Algiers, Tunis and Tripoli came under the sovereignty of the Ottoman Empire, either as directly administered provinces or as autonomous dependencies known as the Barbary States. Similar raids were undertaken from Salé and other ports in Morocco.\n\nBarbary corsairs captured thousands of merchant ships and repeatedly raided coastal towns. As a result, residents abandoned their former villages of long stretches of coast in Spain and Italy. Between 100,000 and 250,000 Iberians were enslaved by these raids.\n\nThe raids were such a problem coastal settlements were seldom undertaken until the 19th century. Between 1580 and 1680 corsairs were said to have captured about 850,000 people as slaves and from 1530 to 1780 as many as 1,250,000 people were enslaved. However, these numbers have been questioned by the historian David Earle. Some of these corsairs were European outcasts and converts (renegade) such as John Ward and Zymen Danseker. Hayreddin Barbarossa and Oruç Reis, Turkish Barbarossa Brothers, who took control of Algiers on behalf of the Ottomans in the early 16th century, were also notorious corsairs. The European pirates brought advanced sailing and shipbuilding techniques to the Barbary Coast around 1600, which enabled the corsairs to extend their activities into the Atlantic Ocean. The effects of the Barbary raids peaked in the early to mid-17th century.\n\nLong after Europeans had abandoned oar-driven vessels in favor of sailing ships carrying tons of powerful cannon, many Barbary warships were galleys carrying a hundred or more fighting men armed with cutlasses and small arms. The Barbary navies were not battle fleets. When they sighted a European frigate, they fled.\n\nThe scope of corsair activity began to diminish in the latter part of the 17th century, as the more powerful European navies started to compel the Barbary States to make peace and cease attacking their shipping. However, the ships and coasts of Christian states without such effective protection continued to suffer until the early 19th century. Following the Napoleonic Wars and the Congress of Vienna in 1814–15, European powers agreed upon the need to suppress the Barbary corsairs entirely and the threat was largely subdued. Occasional incidents occurred, including two Barbary wars between the United States and the Barbary States, until finally terminated by the French conquest of Algiers in 1830.\n\nPiracy by Muslim populations had been known in the Mediterranean since at least the 9th century and the short-lived Emirate of Crete. Provence was plagued by Saracen slave raids in the Carolingian era; in 869, archbishop Rotlandus of Arles was captured, and died before he could be released after the payment of a ransom in weapons, treasure and slaves. \n\nIn 1198 the problem of Berber piracy and slave-taking was so great that a religious order, the Trinitarians, were founded to collect ransoms and even to exchange themselves as ransom for those captured and pressed into slavery in North Africa. In the 14th century Tunisian corsairs became enough of a threat to provoke a Franco-Genoese attack on Mahdia in 1390, also known as the \"Barbary Crusade\". Morisco exiles of the Reconquista and Maghreb pirates added to the numbers, but it was not until the expansion of the Ottoman Empire and the arrival of the privateer and admiral Kemal Reis in 1487 that the Barbary corsairs became a true menace to shipping from European Christian nations.\nThe Barbary pirates had long attacked English and other European shipping along the North Coast of Africa. They had been attacking English merchant and passengers ships since the 1600s. Regular fundraising for ransoms was undertaken generally by families and local church groups, who generally raised the ransoms for individuals. The government did not ransom ordinary persons. The English became familiar with captivity narratives written by Barbary pirates' prisoners and ransomed captives, as so many people were taken. After English colonists began to go to North America and be taken captive by Native Americans, both the colonists and people in England had some basis for considering the meaning of captivity for a Christian in an alien society.\n\nDuring the American Revolution the pirates attacked American merchant vessels in the Mediterranean. But, on December 20, 1777, Sultan Mohammed III of Morocco declared that American merchant ships would be under the protection of the sultanate and could thus enjoy safe passage into the Mediterranean and along the coast. The Moroccan-American Treaty of Friendship stands as the U.S.'s oldest non-broken friendship treaty with a foreign power. In 1778 Morocco became the first nation to recognize the new United States.\n\nAs late as 1798, an islet near Sardinia was attacked by the Tunisians, and more than 900 inhabitants were taken away as slaves. Throughout history, geography was on the pirates' side on the Northern coast of Africa. The coast was ideal for their wants and needs. With natural harbours often backed by lagoons, it provided a haven for guerrilla warfare, such as attacks on shipping vessels venturing through their territory. On the coast, mountainous areas provided ample reconnaissance for the corsairs as well. Ships were spotted from afar; the pirates had time to prepare their attacks and surprise the ships.\n\nMoors and Turkish adventurers from the Levant, of whom the most successful were Hızır and Oruç, natives of Mitylene, increased the number of raids around the turn of the 15th century. In response, Spain began to conquer the coastal towns of Oran, Algiers and Tunis. But after Oruç was killed in battle with the Spanish in 1518, his brother Hızır appealed to Selim I, the Ottoman sultan, who sent him troops. In 1529, Hızır drove the Spaniards from the rocky, fortified island in front of Algiers, and founded the Ottoman power in the region. From about 1518 till the death of Uluç Ali in 1587, Algiers was the main seat of government of the beylerbeys of northern Africa, who ruled over Tripoli, Tunisia and Algeria. From 1587 to 1659, they were ruled by Ottoman pashas, sent from Constantinople to govern for three years; but in the latter year a military revolt in Algiers reduced the pashas to nonentities.\n\nFrom 1659, these African cities, although nominally part of the Ottoman Empire, were in fact military republics that chose their own rulers and lived by war booty captured from the Spanish and Portuguese. There are several cases of Sephardic Jews, including Sinan Reis and Samuel Pallache, who upon fleeing Iberia turned to attacking the Spanish Empire's shipping under the Ottoman flag, a profitable strategy of revenge for the Inquisition's religious persecution.\n\nDuring the first period (1518–1587), the beylerbeys were admirals of the sultan, commanding great fleets and conducting war operations for political ends. They were slave-hunters and their methods were ferocious. After 1587, the sole object of their successors became plunder, on land and sea. The maritime operations were conducted by the captains, or \"reises\", who formed a class or even a corporation. Cruisers were fitted out by investors and commanded by the \"reises\". Ten percent of the value of the prizes was paid to the pasha or his successors, who bore the titles of \"agha\" or \"dey\" or \"bey\".\nIn 1544 Hayreddin captured the island of Ischia, taking 4,000 prisoners, and enslaved some 2,000–7,000 inhabitants of Lipari. In 1551 Turgut Reis enslaved the entire population of the Maltese island of Gozo, between 5,000 and 6,000, sending them to Ottoman Tripolitania. In 1554 corsairs under Turgut Reis sacked Vieste, beheaded 5,000 of its inhabitants, and abducted another 6,000. In 1555 Turgut Reis sacked Bastia, Corsica, taking 6,000 prisoners. In 1558, Barbary corsairs captured the town of Ciutadella (Minorca), destroyed it, murdered many inhabitants, and took 3,000 to Constantinople as slaves. In 1563 Turgut Reis landed on the shores of the province of Granada, Spain, and captured coastal settlements in the area, such as Almuñécar, along with 4,000 prisoners. Barbary corsairs often attacked the Balearic Islands, and in response many coastal watchtowers and fortified churches were erected. The threat was so severe that residents abandoned the island of Formentera.\n\nEven at this early stage, the European states fought back: Livorno's monument \"Quattro Mori\" celebrates 16th-century victories against the Barbary corsairs won by the Knights of Malta and the Order of Saint Stephen, of which the Grand Duke of Tuscany Ferdinando I de' Medici was Grand Master. Another response was the construction of the original frigates; light, fast and maneuverable galleys, designed to run down Barbary corsairs trying to get away with their loot and slaves. Other measures included coastal lookouts to give warning for people to withdraw into fortified places and rally local forces to fight the corsairs. This latter goal was especially difficult to achieve as the corsairs had the advantage of surprise; the vulnerable European Mediterranean coasts were very long and easily accessible from the north African Barbary bases, and the corsairs were careful in planning their raids.\n\nDuring the first half of the 17th century, Barbary raiding was at its peak. This was due largely to the contribution of Dutch corsairs, notably Zymen Danseker (Simon de Danser), who used the Barbary ports as bases for attacking Spanish shipping during the Dutch Revolt. They cooperated with local raiders and introduced them to the latest Dutch sailing rigs, enabling them to brave Atlantic waters. Some of these Dutch corsairs converted to Islam and settled permanently in North Africa. Two examples are Süleyman Reis, \"De Veenboer\", who became admiral of the Algerian corsair fleet in 1617, and his quartermaster Murat Reis, born Jan Janszoon. Both worked for the notorious Dutch corsair Zymen Danseker.\n\nA notable counter action occurred in 1607, when the Knights of Saint Stephen (under Jacopo Inghirami) sacked Bona in Algeria, killing 470 and taking 1,464 captives. This victory is commemorated by a series of frescoes painted by Bernardino Poccetti in the \"Sala di Bona\" of Palazzo Pitti, Florence. In 1611 Spanish galleys from Naples, accompanied by the galleys of the Knights of Malta, raided the Kerkennah Islands off the coast of Tunisia and took away almost 500 Muslim captives. Between 1568 and 1634 the Knights of Saint Stephen may have captured about 14,000 Muslims, with perhaps one-third taken in land raids and two-thirds taken on captured ships.\n\nBarbary corsair attacks were common in southern Portugal, south and east Spain, the Balearic Islands, the Canary Islands, Sardinia, Corsica, Elba, the Italian Peninsula (especially the Tyrrhenian coast), Sicily and Malta. They also occurred on the Atlantic northwest coast of the Iberian Peninsula as in 1617, when the North African corsairs launched their major attack in the region. They destroyed and sacked Bouzas, Cangas do Morrazo and the churches of Moaña and Darbo.\n\nOccasionally coastal raids reached farther afield. Iceland was subject to raids in 1627. Jan Janszoon (Murat Reis the Younger) is said to have taken 400 prisoners; 242 of the captives later were sold into slavery on the Barbary Coast. The corsairs took only young people and those in good physical condition. All those offering resistance were killed, and the old people were gathered into a church which was set on fire. Among those captured was Ólafur Egilsson, who was ransomed the next year. Upon returning to Iceland, he wrote an account about his experience. Such captivity narratives by Europeans who had been held in Muslim states eventually constituted a literary genre.\n\nIreland was subject to a similar attack. In June 1631 Murat Reis, with corsairs from Algiers and armed troops of the Ottoman Empire, stormed ashore at the little harbor village of Baltimore, County Cork. They captured almost all the villagers and took them away to a life of slavery in North Africa. The prisoners were destined for a variety of fates — some lived out their days chained to the oars as galley slaves, while women spent long years as concubines in harems or within the walls of the sultan's palace. Only two of these captives ever returned to Ireland.\n\nMore than 20,000 captives were said to be imprisoned in Algiers alone. The rich were often able to secure release through ransom, but the poor were condemned to slavery. Their masters would on occasion allow them to secure freedom by professing Islam. A long list might be given of people of good social position, not only Italians or Spaniards, but German or English travelers in the south, who were captives for a time. While the chief victims were the inhabitants of the coasts of Sicily, Naples and Spain, all traders of nations which did not pay tribute for immunity or force the Barbary States to leave them alone were liable to be taken at sea. Religious orders – the Redemptorists and Lazarists – worked for the redemption of captives, and in many countries the wealthy left legacies to support such redemptions.\n\nBarbary piracy thrived on the competition among European powers. France encouraged the corsairs against Spain, and later Britain and Holland supported them against France. By the second half of the 17th century, the greater European naval powers were able to strike back effectively enough to intimidate the Barbary States into making peace with them. However, those countries' commercial interests benefited by the pirates continuing attacks on their competitors. As a result, they did not cooperate to impose a more general cessation of corsair activity.\n\nEngland was the most successful of the Christian states in dealing with the corsair threat. From the 1630s onwards England had signed peace treaties with the Barbary States on various occasions, but invariably breaches of these agreements led to renewed wars. A particular bone of contention was the tendency of foreign ships to pose as English to avoid attack. However, growing English naval power and increasingly persistent operations against the corsairs proved increasingly costly for the Barbary States. During the reign of Charles II a series of English expeditions won victories over raiding Barbary squadrons and mounted attacks on their home ports; these actions permanently ended the Barbary threat to English shipping. In 1675 a Royal Navy squadron led by Sir John Narborough negotiated a lasting peace with Tunis and, after bombarding the city to induce compliance, with Tripoli. Peace with Salé followed in 1676.\n\nAlgiers, the most powerful of the Barbary States, returned to war the following year, breaking a treaty made in 1671. After suffering defeats at the hands of an English squadron under Arthur Herbert, Algiers made peace again in 1682, in a treaty that lasted until 1816. France, which had recently emerged as a leading naval power, achieved comparable success soon afterwards. It bombarded Algiers in 1682, 1683 and 1688 to secure a lasting peace, and forced Tripoli to sue for peace by bombardment in 1686.\n\nA 2016 study found that Barbary corsairs were less militarily powerful after 1675 than they were at the start of the seventeenth century.\n\nPiracy was enough of a problem that some states entered into the redemption business. In Denmark, \"At the beginning of the 18th century money was collected systematically in all churches, and a so called 'slave fund' (slavekasse) was established by the state in 1715. Funds were brought in through a compulsory insurance sum for seafarers. 165 slaves were ransomed by this institution between 1716 and 1736.\" \"Between 1716 and 1754 19 ships from Denmark-Norway were captured with 208 men; piracy was thus a serious problem for the Danish merchant fleet.\"\n\nIn the late 18th century piracy began to arise again. In 1783 and 1784 the Spanish bombarded Algiers to end piracy. The second time Admiral Barceló damaged the city so severely that the Algerian Dey asked Spain to negotiate a peace treaty. From then on Spanish vessels and coasts were safe for several years. Separately, the Danish attacked Tripoli in 1797. \n\nUntil the American Declaration of Independence in 1776, British treaties with the North African states protected American ships from the Barbary corsairs. Morocco, which in 1777 was the first independent nation to publicly recognize the United States, in 1784 became the first Barbary power to seize an American vessel after the nation achieved independence. The Barbary threat led directly to the United States founding the United States Navy in March 1794. While the United States did secure peace treaties with the Barbary states, it was obliged to pay tribute for protection from attack. The burden was substantial: in 1800 payments in ransom and tribute to the Barbary states amounted to 20% of United States federal government's annual expenditures. The United States conducted the First Barbary War in 1801 and the Second Barbary War in 1815 to gain more favorable peace terms; it ended the payment of tribute. But, Algiers broke the 1805 peace treaty after two years, and refused to implement the 1815 treaty until compelled to do so by Britain in 1816.\n\nThe Congress of Vienna (1814–15), which ended the Napoleonic Wars, led to increased European consensus on the need to end Barbary raiding. The sacking of Palma on the island of Sardinia by a Tunisian squadron, which carried off 158 inhabitants, roused widespread indignation. Britain had by this time banned the slave trade and was seeking to induce other countries to do likewise. States that were more vulnerable to the corsairs complained that Britain cared more for ending the trade in African slaves than stopping the enslavement of Europeans and Americans by the Barbary States.\n\nIn order to neutralise this objection and further the anti-slavery campaign, in 1816 Britain sent Lord Exmouth to secure new concessions from Tripoli, Tunis, and Algiers, including a pledge to treat Christian captives in any future conflict as prisoners of war rather than slaves. He imposed peace between Algiers and the kingdoms of Sardinia and Sicily. On his first visit, Lord Exmouth negotiated satisfactory treaties and sailed for home. While he was negotiating, a number of Sardinian fishermen who had settled at Bona on the Tunisian coast were brutally treated without his knowledge. As Sardinians they were technically under British protection, the government sent Exmouth back to secure reparation. On August 17, in combination with a Dutch squadron under Admiral Van de Capellen, Exmouth bombarded Algiers. Both Algiers and Tunis made fresh concessions as a result.\n\nThe Barbary states had difficulty securing uniform compliance with a total prohibition of slave-raiding, as this had been traditionally of central importance to the North African economy. Slavers continued to take captives by preying on less well-protected peoples. Algiers subsequently renewed its slave-raiding, though on a smaller scale. Europeans at the Congress of Aix-la-Chapelle in 1818 discussed possible retaliation. In 1820 a British fleet under Admiral Sir Harry Neal bombarded Algiers. Corsair activity based in Algiers did not entirely cease until France conquered the state in 1830.\n\nAccording to Robert Davis, between 1 million and 1.25 million Europeans were captured by Barbary pirates and sold as slaves in North Africa and Ottoman Empire between the 16th and 19th centuries. However, to extrapolate his numbers, Davis assumes the number of European slaves captured by Barbary pirates were constant for a 250-year period, stating:\n\nDavis' numbers have been question by the historian David Earle, who said of Davis' numbers \"His figures sound a bit dodgy and I think he may be exaggerating\" and cautioned that the true picture of Europeans slaves is clouded by the fact the corsairs also seized non-Christian whites from eastern Europe and black people from west Africa.\n\nIn addition, the number of slaves traded was hyperactive, with exaggerated estimates relying on peak years to calculate averages for entire centuries, or millennia. Hence, there were wide fluctuations year-to-year, particularly in the 18th and 19th centuries, given slave imports, and given the fact that, prior to the 1840s, there are no consistent records. Middle East expert, John Wright, cautions that modern estimates are based on back-calculations from human observation. \n\nSuch observations, across the late 1500s and early 1600s observers, account for around 35,000 European Christian slaves held throughout this period on the Barbary Coast, across Tripoli, Tunis, but mostly in Algiers. The majority were sailors (particularly those who were English), taken with their ships, but others were fishermen and poor coastal villagers. However, most of these captives were people from lands close to Africa, particularly Spain and Italy.\n\nFrom bases on the Barbary coast, North Africa, the Barbary pirates raided ships traveling through the Mediterranean and along the northern and western coasts of Africa, plundering their cargo and enslaving the people they captured. From at least 1500, the pirates also conducted raids along seaside towns of Italy, Spain, France, England, the Netherlands and as far away as Iceland, capturing men, women and children. On some occasions, settlements such as Baltimore, Ireland were abandoned following the raid, only being resettled many years later. Between 1609 and 1616, England alone had 466 merchant ships lost to Barbary pirates.\n\nWhile Barbary corsairs looted the cargo of ships they captured, their primary goal was to capture people for sale as slaves or for ransom. Those who had family or friends who might ransom them were held captive, but not obliged to work; the most famous of these was the author Miguel de Cervantes, who was held for almost five years. Others were sold into various types of servitude. Attractive women or boys could be used as sex slaves. Captives who converted to Islam were generally freed, since enslavement of Muslims was prohibited; but this meant that they could never return to their native countries.\nCaptives often suffered from privation on voyages to North Africa if taken at a distance. Those who survived the journeys were often forced to walk through town as they were taken to slave auctions. The slaves typically had to stand from eight in the morning until two in the afternoon while buyers viewed them.\nNext came the auction, where the townspeople would bid on the captives they wanted to purchase and once that was over, the governor of Algiers (the Dey) had the chance to purchase any slave he wanted for the price they were sold at the auction. During the auctions the slaves would be forced to run and jump around to show their strength and stamina. After purchase, the captives would either be held for ransom, or be put to work. Slaves were used for a wide variety of jobs, from hard manual labor to housework (the job assigned to most women slaves). At night the slaves were put into prisons called 'bagnios<nowiki>'</nowiki> (derived from the Italian word \"bagno\" for \"public bath\", inspired by the Turks' use of Roman baths at Constantinople as prisons), which were often hot and overcrowded. However, these bagnios began improving by the 18th century. Some bagnios had chapels, hospitals, shops, and bars run by captives, though such amenities remained uncommon.\n\nAlthough the conditions in bagnios were harsh, they were better than those endured by galley slaves. Most Barbary galleys were at sea for around eighty to a hundred days a year, but when the slaves assigned to them were on land, they were forced to do hard manual labor. There were exceptions: \"galley slaves of the Ottoman Sultan in Constantinople would be permanently confined to their galleys, and often served extremely long terms, averaging around nineteen years in the late seventeenth-century and early eighteenth-century periods. These slaves rarely got off the galley but lived there for years.\" During this time, rowers were shackled and chained where they sat, and never allowed to leave. Sleeping (which was limited), eating, defecation and urination took place at the seat to which they were shackled. There were usually five or six rowers on each oar. Overseers would walk back and forth and whip slaves considered not to be working hard enough.\n\nAccording to historian Adrian Tinniswood, the most notorious corsairs were English and European renegades who had learned their trade as privateers, and who moved to the Barbary Coast during peacetime to pursue their trade. These outcasts brought up-to-date naval expertise to the piracy business, and enabled the corsairs to make long-distance slave-catching raids as far away as Iceland and Newfoundland. The English corsair Henry Mainwaring later returned to England after gaining a royal pardon. He was knighted, elected to Parliament, and appointed a vice admiral of the Royal Navy.\n\nThe most famous of the corsairs in North Africa were brothers Oruç and Hızır Hayreddin. They, and two less well-known brothers, all became Barbary corsairs; they were called the Barbarossas (Italian for Redbeards) after the red beard of Oruç, the eldest. Oruç captured the island of Djerba for the Ottoman Empire in 1502 or 1503. He often attacked Spanish territories on the coast of North Africa; during one failed attempt in 1512 he lost his left arm to a cannonball. The eldest Barbarossa also went on a rampage through Algiers in 1516, and captured the town with the help of the Ottoman Empire. He executed the ruler of Algiers and everybody he suspected would oppose him, including local rulers. He was finally captured and killed by the Spanish in 1518, and put on display.\n\nOruç, based mainly on land, was not the best-known of the Barbarossas. His youngest brother Hızır (later called Hayreddin or Kheir ed-Din) was a more traditional corsair. He was a capable engineer and spoke at least six languages. He dyed the hair of his head and beard with henna to redden it like Oruç's. After capturing many crucial coastal areas, Hayreddin was appointed admiral-in-chief of the Ottoman sultan's fleet. Under his command the Ottoman Empire was able to gain and keep control of the eastern Mediterranean for over thirty years. Barbaros Hızır Hayreddin Pasha died in 1546 of a fever, possibly the plague.\n\nEnglish corsair Jack, or John, Ward was once called \"beyond doubt the greatest scoundrel that ever sailed from England\" by the English ambassador to Venice. Ward was a privateer for Queen Elizabeth during her war with Spain; after the end of the war, he became a corsair. With some associates he captured a ship in about 1603 and sailed it to Tunis; he and his crew converted to Islam. He was successful and became rich. He introduced heavily armed square-rigged ships, used instead of galleys, to the North African area, a major reason for the Barbary's future dominance of the Mediterranean. He died of plague in 1622.\n\nSayyida al-Hurra was a female Muslim cleric, merchant, governor of Tétouan, and later queen of Morocco. She was born around 1485 in the Emirate of Granada, but was forced to flee to Morocco when she was very young to escape the Reconquista. In Morocco, she gathered a crew largely of exiled Moors, and launched pirate expeditions against Spain and Portugal to avenge the Reconquista, protect Morocco from Christian pirates, and seek riches and glory. She co-founded the Barbary Corsairs with her allies the Barbarossa brothers, who divided the Mediterranean between them—the Barbarossas and their Ottoman fleet operating in the east, and Sayyida al-Hurra and her Moorish and North-African pirates operating in the west. Sayyida al-Hurra became wealthy and renowned enough for the Sultan of Morocco, Ahmad al-Wattasi to make her his queen. Notably, however, she refused to marry in his capital of Fez, and would not get married but in Tétouan, of which she was governor. This was the first and only time in history that a Moroccan monarch had married away from his capital.\n\n\nBarbary corsairs are protagonists in \"Le pantere di Algeri (the panthers of Algiers)\" by Emilio Salgari. They were featured in a number of other noted novels, including \"Robinson Crusoe\" by Daniel Defoe, \"The Count of Monte Cristo\" by Alexandre Dumas, père, \"The Wind in the Willows\" by Kenneth Grahame, \"The Sea Hawk\" and the \"Sword of Islam\" by Rafael Sabatini, \"The Algerine Captive\" by Royall Tyler, \"Master and Commander\" by Patrick O'Brian, the \"Baroque Cycle\" by Neal Stephenson, \"The Walking Drum\" by Louis Lamour, \"Doctor Dolittle\" by Hugh Lofting, \"Corsair\" by Clive Cussler and \"Angélique in Barbary\" by Anne Golon. Miguel de Cervantes, the Spanish author, was captive for five years as a slave in the \"bagnio\" of Algiers, and reflected his experience in some of his fictional (but not directly autobiographical) writings, including the Captive's tale in \"Don Quixote\", his two plays set in Algiers, \"El Trato de Argel\" (The Treaty of Algiers) and \"Los Baños de Argel\" (The Baths of Algiers), and episodes in a number of other works. In Mozart's opera \"Die Entführung aus dem Serail\" (a Singspiel), two European ladies are discovered in a Turkish harem, presumably captured by Barbary corsairs. Rossini's opera \"L'Italiana in Algeri\" is based on the capture of several slaves by Barbary corsairs led by the bey of Algiers.\n\nOne of the stereotypical features of a pirate as portrayed in popular culture, the eye patch, may have been partially derived from the Arab corsair Rahmah ibn Jabir al-Jalahimah, who wore a patch after losing an eye in battle in the 18th century.\n\nThe \"Little Johnny England\" song, \"Lily of Barbary\", tells the story of an English man who is enslaved by Barbary corsairs and sold as a slave in Algiers. He is freed when his master dies. He becomes a merchant and buys the freedom of another English slave girl.\n\nThe song \"Coast of High Barbaree\" tells of a sailing ship that came across a pirate ship off the Barbary Coast and defeated the pirates, who were left to drown.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15029776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15029776", "title": "Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs", "text": "Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs\n\nThe Robert and Renée Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs (also known as the Belfer Center) is a permanent research center located within the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University. Since 2017, the center is led by Director Ash Carter, former US Secretary of Defense and Co-Director Eric Rosenbach, former Assistant Secretary of Defense.\n\nBelfer was founded in 1973 by biochemist Paul M. Doty as the 'Program for Science and International Affairs' within Harvard's Faculty of Arts and Sciences to provide analysis on arms control and nuclear threat reduction. Following a grant from the Ford Foundation, the program was re-established as the Center for Science and International Affairs, becoming the first permanent research center at the newly formed School of Government. In 1997, following further endowment, the center was renamed as the Robert and Renée Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs in honor of Robert A. Belfer, founder of Belco Oil & Gas Corporation.\n\nIn 2012, the Stanton Foundation provided funds for a paid Wikipedian in residence at the Belfer Center. This became controversial due to links between the Belfer Center and the Stanton Foundation (the directors of each are a married couple) and public concerns about conflict-of-interest editing on Wikipedia. The center is organized into subgroups with specific areas of focus; for example, an energy technology innovation policy group led by Laura Diaz Anadon.\n\nCenter board members include:\n\nThe center has an international advisory board. Members include:\n\n"}
{"id": "911481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=911481", "title": "Board of estimate", "text": "Board of estimate\n\nA Board of Estimate is a governing body in many counties and municipalities, particularly in the United States.\n\nTypically, the board's membership will consist of a combination of elected officials from the executive branch (e.g., the mayor or county executive) and the legislative branch (called the City Council or, in some localities, the Board of Supervisors), and its powers are usually concentrated in such areas as taxation and land use (especially zoning laws).\n\n"}
{"id": "22763952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22763952", "title": "Chilean Resistance", "text": "Chilean Resistance\n\nChilean Resistance is the collective term used to refer to a broad range of activities initiated by cultural, social and political organisations in opposition to the Pinochet regime between 1973 and 1990. Among the publications from this movement are the \"Chilean Resistance Courier\" and \"Human Rights for Chile\" published by the Support Committee for Chilean Resistance.\n\nThe movement has further led to a number of works in various media.\n"}
{"id": "5252182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5252182", "title": "Conceyu Xoven", "text": "Conceyu Xoven\n\nConceyu Xoven (\"Young Council\" in Leonese) was a Spanish political youth organization that demanded the self-determination of the proposed Leonese Country. It was affiliated with the Leonese People's Union as its youth wing until April 2010, when they were replaced by the Leonesist Youth.\n\nConceyu Xoven claimed to have had more than 1,500 members and to have been the most important organization in the Leonese Country, having won the University of León elections for students. The organization defended the self-government of the Spanish provinces of León, Zamora, Salamanca and a so-called \"reunification\" referendum in territories from other provinces, autonomous communities and countries, as the \"Carrión Strip\" (Palencia), the Valderaduey valley (Valladolid), El Barco de Ávila-Piedrahita area (Ávila), Valdeorras & Viana (Galicia) and the Portuguese Bragança District. From the beginning until the end of the organization's activity the General Secretary of \"Conceyu Xoven\" was Abel Pardo Fernández.\n\nMembers of the organization participated in several municipal elections in the Spanish provinces of León and Zamora within regionalist UPL, and its General Secretary became to be the councillor for Education, New Technologies and Leonese Culture in León. Some members of the organization also participated in the lists of the Salamancan People's Union in the province of Salamanca, where they got two town councillors elected.\n\nThe flag of the organization was a red field with a thin golden circle and a golden sun symbol within. The colors were those of the Leonese flag and the sun symbol represented the South Astur people, origin of Leonese region, according to Conceyu Xoven.\n\nConceyu Xoven used to make use of Leonese language as the official language of the organization, and developed some initiatives for its recognition, like a campaign for the officiality of Leonese language in the reform of the Castile and León Autonomy Statute.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8153824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8153824", "title": "Conditional cash transfer", "text": "Conditional cash transfer\n\nConditional cash transfer (CCT) programs aim to reduce poverty by making welfare programs conditional upon the receivers' actions. The government (or a charity) only transfers the money to persons who meet certain criteria. These criteria may include enrolling children into public schools, getting regular check-ups at the doctor's office, receiving vaccinations, or the like. CCTs seek to help the current generation in poverty, as well as breaking the cycle of poverty for the next through the development of human capital. Conditional cash transfers could help reduce feminization of poverty.\n\nConditional cash transfers have been used in many countries:\n\nFew development initiatives have been evaluated as rigorously as CCT programs. The implementation of conditional cash transfer programs has been accompanied by systematic efforts to measure their effectiveness and understand their broader impact on household behavior, a marked departure from the limited attention that was paid to rigorous impact evaluations in the past. Evaluation results are available for PROGRESA in Mexico, PETI in Brazil and the \"Atencion a Crisis\" in Nicaragua. These evaluations reveal that conditional cash transfers can provide effective incentives for investing in the poor’s human capital.\n\nCCTs have affected not only the overall level of consumption, but also the composition of consumption. There is a good deal of evidence that households that receive CCTs spend more on food and, in the food basket, on higher-quality sources of nutrients than do households that do not receive the transfer but have comparable overall income or consumption levels.\n\nIn Bangladesh, Pakistan, and Turkey, where school enrollment rates among girls were lower than among boys, CCTs have helped reduce this gender gap.\n\nCCTs have resulted in sizeable reductions in poverty among recipients—especially when the transfer has been sufficient, well targeted, and structured in a way that does not discourage recipients from taking other actions to escape poverty. Because CCTs provide a steady income, they have helped protect poor households from the worst effects of unemployment, catastrophic illness, and other sudden income shocks. And making cash transfers to women, as virtually all CCTs do, may have increased their bargaining power.\n\nIn the US, a paper by the Institute for Research on Poverty concluded in 2011: \n\"Over time, we find that expenditures have shifted toward the disabled and the elderly, and away from those with the lowest incomes and toward those with higher incomes, with the consequence that post-transfer rates of deep poverty for some groups have increased. We conclude that the U.S. benefit system is paternalistic and tilted toward the support of the employed and toward groups with special needs and perceived deservingness.\"\n\nMany countries in Latin America are now using CCT programs as a major tool of their social policy since they have been proven to be very effective in helping poor families. By 2011 CCTs had spread to 18 countries in the region and covered as many as 129 million beneficiaries. Although the conditions and amounts of money may vary from country to country, ranging from $5 to $33 per child, in general these programs provide money to poor families under the condition that those transfers are used as an investment on their children’s human capital, such as regular school attendance and basic preventive health care. The purpose of these programs is to address the inter-generational transmission of poverty and to foster social inclusion by targeting the poor, focusing on children, delivering transfers to women, and changing social accountability relationships between beneficiaries, service providers and governments. Most of these transfer schemes are now benefiting around 110 million people in the region, and are considered relatively cheap, costing around 0.5% of their GDP.\n\nConditional cash transfer programs can be very effective in reducing poverty in the short term since they have helped to increase household income and consumption in poor families.They have also worked effectively in increasing school enrollment and attendance, especially in middle school. A substantial improvement in health and nutrition of the children that benefit from these programs has been acknowledged. However, studies by the UNDP have shown that conditional cash transfers neither represented a significant increase in the quality of education and in learning nor significant increased salaries, once the recipients entered the labor force.\n\nMost CCT programs are very well-targeted and effective in reaching the poor and the excluded groups, notably the extreme poor living outside the reach of social protection programs tied with formal sector employment. On average, 80% of the benefits go to the 40% poorest families. The programs have also promoted equality of gender since they provide larger funds to girls since they often drop out earlier, so it has increased their enrollment and attendance to secondary levels of education. In the long run, these investments may also yield to significant changes in women's empowerment and insertion in economic networks.\n\nWhile most conditional cash transfer programs are in Latin America, a significant amount of research has been conducted regarding the implementation of these programs in Africa. In addition, programs are looking to the Latin America for examples on how to implement these programs. While there are a few unconditional cash transfer programs in Africa being tested, two conditional cash transfer programs in Africa are currently being implemented. For CCTs to be successful, they require sufficient infrastructure. Poor education and health systems limit the benefits of CCT programs. Impacts should be seen in regard to the effectiveness of health and education institutions of the country.\n\nSince 2007 a pilot conditional cash transfer program has been researching its effectiveness in Morocco, organized by the World Bank. The program targets poor regions of Morocco with high dropout rates and should cover 160,000 households by 2010. The pilot program is a comparative test that has four treatment groups. One group is receiving unconditional cash transfers, regardless of child school attendance. The next three are given conditional cash transfers to families of children grades 3-6 based on the child's attendance at school.\n\nThe three treatment groups vary in how attendance is monitored, ranging from monitoring attendance based on teacher’s report, all the way to a sophisticated system involving monitoring through biometric fingerprint machines.\n\nIn addition, within each classroom, which parent (the mother or father) is randomized to see if the family benefits more from having the money targeted to one or the other. This study will bring research that assesses the importance of conditionality, monitoring, and targeting within a conditional cash transfer program.\n\nConditional cash transfer programs are not used widely in Europe. In the UK, in 2011 CentreForum proposed an additional child benefit dependent on parenting activities.\n\nIn Turkey, CCT program has still been implemented by GDSA since 2003 with education and health components in which almost 6 billion Turkish Liras (app. 2 billion Euros) have been spent to about 3.5 million beneficiary households. In order to be paid regularly in CCT program, students (ages 5–20) have to attend to their school regularly and children (ages 0–6) have to be taken to health centres regularly. All the conditions are being monitored by GDSA from the databases of Ministry of Health and Ministry of Education by the means of an interactive web-based MIS.\n\nThe conditional education grants are provided to children of the target group on school enrollment condition, from the first grade through the end of the twelfth grade. Once qualified as beneficiaries, children should maintain at least 80 per cent attendance rate to continue to receive the grant.\n\nIndividual payment amounts differ according to components. Girls are paid higher amounts than boys in education component to encourage poor families to send their daughters to school. Besides, due to increasing drop-out rates in higher grades, secondary school (9th-12th grades) students are paid higher amounts than primary school ones in order to ensure the effect of the program on decreasing the drop-out rates.\n\nThe project named \"Strengthening the Impact of the Conditional Cash Transfer Programme in Turkey for Increasing High School Attendance\" (Liseye Devam Senden, Destek Bizden) has been started up in December 2014 by GDSA through EU co-finance. The project has been integrated to Turkey's CCT implementation and designed for high school CCT beneficiaries in order to ensure them to get a degree and decrease early school leaving rates which also is one of the most important topics for 2020 European Union targets for a sustainable growth.\n\nIn the scope of the project, extra incentives were added into CCT education programme aiming to support high school education attendance which would provide stronger reinforcement for the CCT families. Grants (€60 in 2014 and €70 in 2015 for each eligible student) is provided for parents (preferably mothers) of high school (9th, 10th and 11th grades and 12th for 2015) CCT beneficiaries suffering from lack of financial resources to cover educational expenditures especially in the beginning of each year.\n\nModest financial incentives delivered in routine clinical practice have been found to significantly improve adherence to, and completion of, vaccination programmes.\n\nAlthough the benefits of conditional cash transfer programs across the world have been widely noted, there remains a series of obstacles to their success that have caused some programs to be stunted or terminated completely.\n\nAccording to a comprehensive study done by senior research analysts Laura Rawlings and Gloria Rubio of the World Bank, the beginning stages of program implementation present the challenge of creating a reliable implementation schedule. On many occasions, changes in political leadership, natural disasters, or changes in program administration have delayed the implementation schedule and lead to decreased efficiency or program termination.\n\nAn example of the negative outcomes of one such delay is provided by the UN Development Programme's in-depth study of the short-lived Nicaragua's Social Protection Network. According to the study, the movement of the program administration to the country's Ministry of the Family caused a delay in efficiency and resources that, among other factors, led to the program's termination. Delays can also be caused by difficulties in developing the program management information system (MIS).\n\nOne such delay in Mexico's Oportunidades program caused 27% of its targeted population not to receive any transfers after two years of implementation.\n\nIn addition to unscheduled delays, other external factors that can hinder a CCT's success pertain to unexpected financial crisis. According to a comprehensive assessment provided by the World Bank, the structure of conditional cash transfer programs has not yet been adjusted to retain success in the event of a large financial crisis.\n\nPrimarily, conditional cash transfer programs are not flexible enough to extend benefits to households that fall into the program's targeted population only during economic downturns. Thus, those not normally covered by the program's benefits may be harder hit than those who are but will not be able to be assisted.\n\nAnother common obstacle to success in most CCTs is exclusion of needy homes in the targeting process. In an assessment by the World Bank, much exclusion was due to remote communities' inability to access schools or clinics. Many such communities fall into developing countries' most poverty-stricken populations but cannot follow through with conditionalities since the transportation costs to attend schools or hospital visits outweigh the benefits. Furthermore, an evaluation of Mexico's Progresa-Oportunidades program addresses the issue that those in poverty with debilitating illnesses can be excluded from CCTs due to their physical inability to accomplish the conditionalities.\n\nExclusion has been noted by both the World Bank study and the Progresa-Oportunidades evaluation evident in community-based targeting and self-targeting approaches. In the case of self-targeting, used by Mexico's Progresa-Oportunidades, working women may be excluded from the program because they are unable to miss work to register or accomplish all conditions. In the case of community-based targeting, the World Bank study notes that the extremely poor who may live in generally middle-class communities will be excluded.\n\nTargeted populations' distrust of the program due to lack of adequate information has been noted by at least three case studies to be a leading factor in the CCT programs’ downfalls. The extensive study by the UN Development Programme on Nicaragua's Social Protection Network (RPS) reveals that the level of distrust of the program was so high that a domestic publicity campaign could have possibly saved the RPS from extinction. This high level of domestic distrust was due, in part, to efforts to politicize the program.\n\nOne report addressed in the UN Development Programme's study stated that RPS employees were approached by members of the government, who demanded that half their salaries be donated to the party in power. Although the RPS was successful in avoiding the threats, it was later revealed that the RPS was the only Nicaraguan institution of its kind not making government contributions.\n\nThis same level of distrust is reflected in a study on the feasibility of a Haitian CCT made by the International Food Policy Research Institute. In the focus group they interviewed, almost all subjects expressed a \"profound lack of faith\" in the Haitian government. Instead, they preferred that the conditional cash transfer programs be implemented by community committees or NGOs.\n\nHowever, this distrust in governments' ability to fairly implement CCTs fairly is not strictly limited to developing countries. In an article in \"The New York Times\" addressing the termination of the pilot CCT, Opportunity NYC, the committee leader of one of its lending institutions stated that people were distrustful and confused by the program's intricacies. New York City's deputy mayor for health and human services added that many busy and stressed households were not being able to handle the many conditions they had to complete since they were not efficiently educated about the program.\n\nThere is currently much discussion about whether conditionality, or conditions for the cash transfer, is necessary or important to a cash transfer program. Research, such as the pilot conditional cash transfer program in Indonesia called \"Generasi\", examined the importance of conditionality. \nOne report looks at data from Mexico's Oportunidades/Progresa program, which looks at families who accidentally did not receive forms that monitor school attendance and therefore received unconditional cash transfers. It then compares them with those households that did receive the forms. It was shown that conditionality had the strongest impact on children's attendance to secondary school, as enrollment rates in secondary school were higher for those that received the forms.\n\nAnother report on an experiment in Malawi is researching the importance of conditionality among families with school-age girls. The program was conducted, with data collected between October 2007 and June 2010. It was found that the treatment arm providing conditional cash transfer programs had higher enrollment rates, as well as higher scores in independently administered tests of cognitive ability, mathematics and English reading comprehension. However, the UCT treatment arm had a much lower incidence of pregnancy and marriage among schoolage girls.\n\nA strong argument against the conditionality of social cash transfers is proposed by proponents of a rights-based approach to development. From a human rights perspective, cash transfers are a means to ensure the human rights to social protection and an adequate standard of living for all members of society, including first and foremost the fundamental right to food. States have the duty to ensure those rights with a maximum of available resources. While reducing poverty in general, conditional cash transfers have shown to often exclude those who need it the most, violating the human rights principle of non-discrimination and equality.\n\nThe following program in Malawi is an example of an unconditional cash transfer:\n\nThe Mchinji Pilot Social Cash Transfer Scheme is part of the larger Malawi Social Protection Policy and Framework, and began in April 2006. It is mainly financed by UNICEF and the National AIDS Commission. The objectives of the scheme are to reduce poverty of people in the pilot area who are ultra poor and labor constrained, increase school enrolment and attendance, and to generate information regarding the feasibility of a cash transfer program as part of a Social Protection Programme for Malawi. The goal for this program is to reduce the ultra poverty rate from the 22% rate in 2007 to 10% by 2015.\n\nThis program targets those households that are ultra poor (See poverty for definition) and those who are labor constrained, defined as either a household in which no able-bodied members 19-64 can work due to chronic sickness or disability or a household with one-able bodied member that has to care for more than three dependents. About 22% of Malawi as of 2007 was ultra-poor, living on less than 20 cents a day, and of that group 10% are labor constrained.\n\nThe program would give anywhere from 600 kwacha ($4 US) monthly for a one-person household to 1800 kwacha ($13 US) monthly for a four or more person family. There is also an extra bonus of 200 kwacha for children enrolled in primary school and 400 kwacha for children enrolled in secondary school.\nThe location for the program is in the Mchinji District, the 14th poorest district out of 28 in Malawi.\n\nIt was chosen for its average poverty level of all the districts in Malawi and its proximity to the capital, Lilongwe.\n\nThe first comprehensive systematic review of evidence on health effects of cash transfers found that the relative effectiveness of conditional and unconditional cash transfers remains very uncertain. The review found only three studies that compared conditional cash transfers with unconditional ones directly, and it recommended additional randomized controlled trials of conditional compared with unconditional cash transfers.<ref name=\"doi10.1002/14651858.CD011135.pub2\"></ref>\n\n\nSpecific programs:\n\n62. ^ Parenting matters: early years and social mobility. Centreforum. Chris Paterson, 2011. http://www.centreforum.org/assets/pubs/parenting-matters.pdf\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40964735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40964735", "title": "Consistory (Protestantism)", "text": "Consistory (Protestantism)\n\nIn Protestant usage, a consistory designates certain ruling bodies in various churches. The meaning and the scope of functions varies strongly, also along the separating lines of the Protestant denominations and church bodies. \nStarting in 1539 the term was used for a body taking over the jurisdiction in marital matters, and later also church discipline, so that Protestant consistories can be regarded as successors not to the papal consistory in Rome but rather to the courts of Roman Catholic bishops. In the Lutheran or Reformed states of imperial immediacy in the Holy Roman Empire episcopal offices were not staffed any more and the secular government assumed the function of the bishop (summepiscopate, summus episcopus), looked after by the consistories.\n\nNot all Protestant churches adopted consistories, especially not collegially governed churches, often of Reformed or Presbyterian confession. Consistories were either bodies of local churches (mostly in the Reformed tradition), or parastatal entities, like in the French model, or they were governing bodies as part of the administration of Protestant state churches (Lutheran, Reformed and United Protestant alike). The rather governmental character of the consistory is the reason why the term was given up in many church bodies after the separation of religion and state and the concomitant abolition of the status as state church and the assumption of church independence.\n\nIn countries under French influence the Protestants, Calvinists and Lutherans alike (and the Jews as well, see Israelite consistories), made use of the term in the beginning of the nineteenth century with the enactment of the Organic Articles, when the movement for political emancipation demanded the creation of a representative body, whereas Napoleon's government simultaneously aimed at gaining influence onto the non-Catholic religious bodies. Roman Catholicism in Napoleon's realm was subject to the Concordat of 1801. The consistories in the French Empire could transact official business with a government in the name of the Protestants and vice versa. Furthermore, the desire for reform among the educated classes demanded the creation of a body vested with authority to render religious decisions.\n\n\"In Anglican churches the consistory is the diocesan court, usually presided over by the bishop's chancellor or commissary. It deals with a variety of issues at the diocesan level, and its decisions may be appealed to higher courts in the national church.\"\n\n In the Lutheran tradition, and derived from that similarly in some united and uniting Protestant churches, the consistory is a body governing the ecclesiastical affairs in a specific ambit, comprising either all congregations (aka parishes) within a Protestant church body (thus forming a leading body, with executive and /or spiritual competence for a church), or only those in a district organisation (consistorial district; ) or in a regional organisation (such as an ecclesiastical province; ). In the latter two cases, typical in churches with a congregational polity, the term consistory is also used to designate the geographical area administered by the consistory.\n\nConsistories, forming executive body of a state church, had often great powers through the authority of the secular government. In history, before separating executive and juridical competences, consistories of Lutheran state churches with central executive powers, therefore usually consisting of jurisprudents and clergy, did also function as courts appointed to regulate ecclesiastical affairs. At times the consistories were parastatal offices in charge of all (Protestant) denominations (e.g. in Bremen-Verden) or even all religions (e.g. in Prussia, see Evangelical Church in Prussia from 1808 to 1816) in the respective territory. While Lutheran churches often still did not form legal entities distinct from the state, the consistories turned out to be the oldest body of many modern regional Protestant church bodies, which developed into independent legal entities in the 18th and 19th centuries.\n\nBy the French Organic Articles each time several parishes (paroisses) of the EPCAAL form a consistory (consistoire), terming the board and its district alike. The consistories are of legal entity status. Each consistory holds property of its own and receives contributions by the member parishes. Each EPCAAL consistory comprises all the pastors active in its district and the double number of laypersons, elected in three year terms by the local church presbyteries, as well as some members coöpted by the church executive Directory (directoire). The consistorial members elect from their midst their executive, the consistorial council (Conseil consistorial) of four members. Consistorial decisions are presented to the French minister of the Interior, who may oppose them within a two-months period, and reported to the superior EPCAAL Supreme consistory (Consistoire supérieur).\n\nIn the Reformed (Calvinist) tradition the consistory is the authority in the local church, generally made up of all the teaching Elders (ministers) and the ruling elders (lay leaders). The consistory then forms the head of individual congregations (or parishes) also in charge of implementing the policies of the synod and/or assembly of which it is part, and providing for church discipline of the church members where necessary. A panel sometimes called the Great Consistory, convoked if considered necessary for special consultations, would include the current consistory and former elders and deacons. Congregations (kerkgemeenten) within the Protestant Church in the Netherlands rooted in the 2004-merged Dutch Reformed Church often call their local church councils or \"consistorie\" (consistory, else also called kerkenraad, i.e. church council).\n\nIn weekly meetings the consistory examined people accused of misbehaviour. If the charges proved of substance, the consistory had a range of options including referring the person for counselling or, in more severe cases, to the civil courts. \"In 1555, excommunication was added to its powers.\" About one-fifteenth of the entire adult population of the republic was annually summoned before the consistory. As much as Calvin's theology with his emphasis on church discipline, the Genevan Consistory gave the city-state particular and the Reformed Church of Geneva its unique lifestyle.\n\nAlso in the Protestant Reformed Church of Alsace and Lorraine (EPRAL) several parishes form a consistory (consistoire), with the term used for the board and its district alike. As religious statutory law corporations the consistories have legal entity status, holding property of their own and receiving contributions from member parishes. EPRAL consistories are made up and organised like their EPCAAL counterparts (see above). Unlike their EPCAAL counterparts the EPRAL consistories appoint the pastors after proposition by the presbytery of the concerned parish.\n\n The Evangelical Church of Berlin-Brandenburg-Silesian Upper Lusatia (EKBO, a church comprising Lutheran, Reformed and united congregations) uses the term consistory () for its administrative office. This consistory was founded in 1543 and underwent a number of alterations of its official naming and functions in compliance with the development of the constitution of the church. Also the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Latvia and the Protestant Church of Luxembourg (Consistoire de l'Eglise Protestante du Luxembourg) use the term consistory for their central administrative offices.\n\nThe Lutheran Protestant Church of Augsburg Confession of Alsace and Lorraine (EPCAAL) maintains its Supreme Consistory (Consistoire supérieur), functioning as the supreme spiritual body, and 40 regional consistories, established in 1802 but later partially reorganised and renamed. In the Lutheran Evangelical Church of the Augsburg Confession in Poland the Consistory of the Church () serves as the chief administrative authority and the executive board of the synod.\n\nIn the Estonian Evangelical Lutheran Church the consistory (konsistoorium) is the administrative board of the church. In 2006 the Evangelical Lutheran Church in European Russia established a consistory (Консистория) as its central executive body. In the Evangelical Reformed Church in the Republic of Poland the administrative body is termed as consistory (Konsystorz). In the Protestant Reformed Church of Alsace and Lorraine four consistories form district organisations each comprising several parishes.\n\n\nThe designations for the members of consistories alter as to their functions and status as clergy or laymen. In German Konsistorialrat (consistorial councillor) and Konsistorialassessor (consistorial assessor) are each used to term both. Consistories often had double leadership, one lay and one cleric. The lay leader is often called Konsistorialpräsident or Konsistorialdirektor (consistorial president or director), by vocation usually a jurisprudent, while the cleric leaders could be termed Generalsuperintendent or just Superintendent (general superintendent or superintendent), or provost (Propst, as with EKBO).\n\n"}
{"id": "39696466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39696466", "title": "Courage Award for the Arts", "text": "Courage Award for the Arts\n\nThe Courage Award for the Arts is a private award presented annually by Yoko Ono Lennon to artists, musicians, collectors, curators, writers who sought the truth in their work and demonstrated leadership, courage, resourcefulness in their work, and risked their careers by pursuing a larger vision of the local or national interest \"despite pressure to succumb to commercial and political constraints. \" \nThe award was established in 2009 by Yoko Ono Lennon. Courage Award for the Arts laureates receive a prize of US$25,000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20900526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20900526", "title": "Don Henry", "text": "Don Henry\n\nDonald Hugh Henry AM is Enterprise Professor of Environmentalism at the Melbourne Sustainable Society Institute, University of Melbourne. \n\nHe is also an International Board member of Al Gore’s ‘Climate Reality Project'. \n\nFrom 1998 to 2014 Henry was the Chief Executive Officer of the Australian Conservation Foundation. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41641761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41641761", "title": "Equality Federation", "text": "Equality Federation\n\nEquality Federation is a social justice, advocacy and capacity building organization serving and supporting state-based lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) advocacy organizations in the United States.\n\nIn 1997, a group of state-based LGBT advocacy organizations came together to form the Equality Federation, which originally operated as a volunteer-run coalition. In 2005, Toni Broaddus joined the Federation as its first executive director, transitioning it to a staffed organization. In 2010, the Federation was a staff of four when Broaddus stepped down. After a nationwide search, the board of directors hired Rebecca Isaacs as the organization’s second executive director in 2011.\n\nThe Equality Federation is an umbrella group of two separate non-profit organizations. The Equality Federation is a 501(c)(4) membership organization serving organizations who advocate for LGBT equality in nearly all 50 states. The Equality Federation Institute is a 501(c)(3) organization with programs in leadership development, policy advocacy, and organizational development.\n\nThe Equality Federation staff is distributed across the United States.\n\nEquality Federation's programs focus on leadership development, policy advocacy, and organizational development.\n\nEquality Federation staff provide coaching and mentoring to new and experienced executive directors, offer training for staff and board of advocacy organizations, and operate an internship program to connect young people with statewide organizations.\n\nThe organization also hosts two annual events: the New Executive Director Boot Camp and the Summer Meeting. The New Executive Director Boot Camp is attended by new organization leaders for two days of in-depth training. The Summer Meeting provides state-based organization leaders with the opportunity to collaborate and develop working relationships.\n\nEquality Federation’s organizational development program focuses on strengthening member organizations to ensure they’re sustainable and strategically positioned to advance public policy changes.\n\nThe program's offerings include strategic planning services (organizational, advocacy, and fundraising plans), executive search support, and access to online services. The organization also works to create partnerships within and across regions. The Southern Cohort convenes annually at the Southern Leadership Summit to share best practices and form partnerships for working in the Southern United States. Similarly, the Midwest Cohort meets at the Midwest Leadership Summit to strategize for the Midwestern United States.\n\nThe organization's policy program assists state-based organizations with their public policy advocacy efforts.\n\nThe State Equality Fund (a philanthropic partnership that includes the Evelyn and Walter Haas, Jr. Fund, Ford Foundation, the Gill Foundation, and anonymous donors) works with the Equality Federation to build support for passage of statewide nondiscrimination laws in Ohio and Pennsylvania. The organization has worked with a number of state-based organizations to develop plans after their state allows same-sex marriage. Equality Federation has also formed a partnership with the GSA Network to advance safe school policies in five states.\n\nEquality Federation serves statewide LGBT advocacy organizations in the United States, including:\nFormer members of Equality Federation include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1297260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1297260", "title": "Ethyl oleate", "text": "Ethyl oleate\n\nEthyl oleate is a fatty acid ester formed by the condensation of oleic acid and ethanol. It is a colorless to light yellow liquid. Ethyl oleate is produced by the body during ethanol intoxication.\n\nEthyl oleate is used as a solvent for pharmaceutical drug preparations involving lipophilic substances such as steroids. It also finds use as a lubricant and a plasticizer. Louis Bouveault used ethyl oleate to demonstrate Bouveault–Blanc reduction, producing oleyl alcohol and ethanol, a method which was subsequently refined and published in \"Organic Syntheses\".\n\nEthyl oleate is regulated as a food additive by the Food and Drug Administration under \"Food Additives Permitted for Direct Addition to Food for Human Consumption\", 21CFR172.515.\n\nEthyl oleate has been identified as a primer pheromone in honeybees.\n\nEthyl oleate is one of the fatty acid ethyl esters (FAEE) that is formed in the body after ingestion of ethanol. There is a growing body of research literature that implicates FAEEs such as ethyl oleate as the toxic mediators of ethanol in the body (pancreas, liver, heart, and brain). Among the speculations is that ethyl oleate may be the toxic mediator of alcohol in fetal alcohol syndrome. The oral ingestion of ethyl oleate has been carefully studied and due to rapid degradation in the digestive tract it appears safe for oral ingestion. Ethyl oleate is not currently approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for any injectable use. However, it is used by compounding pharmacies as a vehicle for intramuscular drug delivery, in some cases to prepare the daily doses of progesterone in support of pregnancy. Studies which document the safe use of ethyl oleate in pregnancy for both the mother and the fetus have never been performed.\n\n"}
{"id": "44549133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44549133", "title": "Factory-kitchen", "text": "Factory-kitchen\n\nA Factory-kitchen or kitchen factory () was a large mechanized enterprise of food service in the Soviet Union, originated in 1920-1930s. Its main purpose was centralized preparation of food (both prefabrication and full processing) supplied for communal dining rooms or for personal purchase. Factory-kitchens were characteristic of their unique architecture. Sometimes the term is inadequately translated as communal kitchen, the latter being a kitchen in a Soviet communal apartment.\n\nThe idea of centralized food preparation was part of the emancipation of the women from the household work in early Soviet Union, and to better tap into women's workforce. Along with the house-communes (дом-коммуна), factory-kitchens were to get rid of \"the yoke of the household economy\". Slogans of the day were \"Away with Pots and Pans!\" and \"The Saucepan is an Enemy of the Party Cell.\n\nVarious propagandists explained how \"a single person can prepare from fifty to hundred dinners a day\". A children's book \"A Cook for a Whole City\" described in detail how efficiently a kitchen-factory works\n\n"}
{"id": "19848793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19848793", "title": "Family Institute of Connecticut", "text": "Family Institute of Connecticut\n\nThe Family Institute of Connecticut is an interdenominational, conservative 501(c)(3) non-profit advocacy organization founded in 1989. Its stated goal is to encourage and strengthen the family as the foundation of society and to promote Judeo-Christian ethical and moral values in the culture and government of Connecticut. It has been a vocal opponent of assisted suicide, abortion, and same-sex marriage in Connecticut, USA.\n\nThe FIC comprises three organizations:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48467480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48467480", "title": "FreeRight", "text": "FreeRight\n\nFreeRight (, LD) is a liberal-conservative political association in Italy.\n\nLD was launched by Gianfranco Fini, former leader of the Italian Social Movement (MSI), National Alliance (AN) and Future and Freedom (FLI), former minister of Foreign Affairs, former deputy prime minister and former president of the Chamber of Deputies, in October 2013.\n\nThe association's leading principles are patriotism (i.e. not nationalism), legality, liberty and European integration. In Fini's words, \"if the political and cultural community of the right is able to work in the near future to express original ideas in line with its traditional values and if new leaders emerge, the political right will resume its path in a credible way\" and he \"will try [...] to give a contribution of ideas and proposals in order to define the countenance of an Italian right finally alike [...] to several European formations.\" In this respect, Fini has long hinted that he might return to active politics and expressed interest in the creation of a party representing both the traditional and the \"moderate\" right, as opposed to the \"populism\" supposedly espoused by Brothers of Italy and Lega Nord, AN's historical nemesis. \n\n"}
{"id": "29269559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29269559", "title": "Garda National Surveillance Unit", "text": "Garda National Surveillance Unit\n\nThe National Surveillance Unit (NSU) () is the principal clandestine intelligence gathering and surveillance operations unit of the \"Garda Síochána\", the national police force of Ireland. The unit operates under the Crime & Security Branch (CSB), based at Garda Headquarters in the Phoenix Park, Dublin, and also works from Harcourt Street, Dublin. Members of the unit are specially trained and selected Detective Gardaí who are tasked to remain covert whilst on and off duty, tracking suspected criminals, terrorists and hostile, foreign spies operating in Ireland. The unit's detectives are routinely armed. The National Surveillance Unit is understood to possess a manpower of approximately 100 officers, and is considered to be the most secretive arm of the force.\n\nThe Garda National Surveillance Unit was formed in the mid-1990s, when the \"Crime Special Surveillance Unit\" and the \"Crime Ordinary Surveillance Unit\" were merged. It is the operational wing of the Security & Intelligence Section (S&I) of the Crime & Security Branch (CSB). The unit is headed by a Detective Chief Superintendent, who is under the supervision of the Assistant Commissioner in charge of the Crime and Security Branch. It is understood to have a strength of about 100 plainclothes officers, mainly detectives, who all carry firearms (standard issue is the concealable Walther P99c 9mm semi-automatic pistol). The unit is headquartered in the Phoenix Park, but carries out many operations from Harcourt Street. The NSU has personnel nationwide, and works closely with the Special Detective Unit (SDU) as well as Garda analysts or \"techies\" in other Garda regions, although often local Gardaí are unaware of the presence of the NSU operating in their area.\n\nIncreasingly, the NSU is using technical and electronic espionage rather than physical and human intelligence, working with the SDU and Directorate of Military Intelligence (G2) of the Irish Defence Forces, mainly to counter terror, militant and subversive groups in Ireland, as well as serious crime (particularly drug trafficking) and the activities of hostile foreign governments on Irish soil (counterintelligence).\n\nThe Garda NSU is considered the most covert unit of the force, and according to the Department of Justice: \"It is the policy of An Garda Síochána not to comment on any matters relating to the operation of the National Surveillance Unit.\"\n\nThe Garda NSU operates a small number of \"Ghost Teams\" or \"Ghost Units\", which conduct so-called \"Black bag operations\", whereby a team of officers will break into a property upon possession of a warrant and plant bugs to gather intelligence or evidence against suspected serious criminals, terrorists or hostile spies without their knowledge, and without leaving a trace (hence the name \"Ghost Team\"). The existence of these teams came to public attention following the publishing of The Criminal Justice (Surveillance) Act 2009. The equipment and technology used by the NSU is highly sophisticated and very expensive, but is also kept secret.\n\nThe National Surveillance Unit has been involved in a number of high-profile Garda operations, though rarely are the unit named, and they do not appear in public.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47542614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47542614", "title": "Gay Voter's League", "text": "Gay Voter's League\n\nGay Voter's League of San Francisco is a defunct political organization of LGBT Americans who campaigned for both Republican and Democratic candidates.\n\nIn 1971 former members of San Francisco's Gay Activists Alliance, headed by Reverend Ray Broshears, formed the Gay Voters' League. The group sought to include conservative candidates, which put it at odds with other LGBT political organizations at the time. In 1972, the group campaigned for the re-election of President Richard Nixon and for seven other candidates (four Republicans and three Democrats). In October 1972, representative of the Committee to Re-elect the President addressed gay voters on behalf of Richard M. Nixon's campaign in San Francisco. The Gay Voters League was active through 1981. \n"}
{"id": "20103768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20103768", "title": "General Land Exchange Act of 1922", "text": "General Land Exchange Act of 1922\n\nThe General Land Exchange Act of 1922 (16 U.S.C. 485, 486) was signed into law by President of the United States Warren G. Harding on March 20, 1922\nThis act allowed the US Forest Service to consolidate its holdings in national forests where a large percentage of private lands were intermingled with forest lands. It made possible the exchange of inholdings within national forests for private lands of equal value and within the same state.\n\nThis act also made for better management and administration in accordance with future planning initiatives because the process of a mutually desirable exchange was greatly simplified by this legislation to a matter of just signing papers.\n\nChief Forester William B. Greeley predicted in 1922 that \"this law would probably be regarded as one of the half-dozen most important laws affecting the National Forests.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "322907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=322907", "title": "Government of the 4th Dáil", "text": "Government of the 4th Dáil\n\nThe 4th Dáil was elected at the 1923 general election on 27 August 1923 and first met on 19 September when the 2nd Executive Council was appointed. The 4th Dáil lasted 1,382 days.\n\nThe 2nd Executive Council of the Irish Free State (19 September 1923 – 23 June 1927) was formed by the Cumann na nGaedheal party.\n"}
{"id": "22076989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22076989", "title": "Governor of Pangasinan", "text": "Governor of Pangasinan\n\nThe Governor of Pangasinan is the highest political office in the province of Pangasinan, Philippines. Along with the Governor of Ilocos Norte, Ilocos Sur and La Union, he sits in the Regional Development Council of Ilocos Region.\n"}
{"id": "7954219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7954219", "title": "Grupo De Apoyo a la Democracia", "text": "Grupo De Apoyo a la Democracia\n\nThe Grupo De Apoyo a la Democracia (Group for the Support of Democracy) is a group of dissident Cuban exiles living in the United States. \n\nIn 2006, they were accused of misusing US governmental funding for \"computer games, cashmere sweaters, crabmeat and expensive chocolates\".\n"}
{"id": "1291083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1291083", "title": "Harlan Lane", "text": "Harlan Lane\n\nHarlan Lane (born 19 August 1936) is an American psychologist. Lane is the Matthews Distinguished University Professor of Psychology at Northeastern University in Boston, Massachusetts, in the United States, and founder of the Center for Research in Hearing, Speech, and Language . His research is focused on speech, Deaf culture, and sign language. \n\nLane was born in Brooklyn, New York. Remaining in New York City for college, he obtained both a B.S. and an M.S. in Psychology from Columbia University in 1958. He subsequently received a PhD. in Psychology from Harvard (1960) and a \"Doc. des Lettres\" from the Sorbonne (1973). In 1991, Lane received a MacArthur Foundation Fellowship.\n\nLane, a hearing man, has become an often controversial spokesman for the Deaf community and critic of cochlear implants. He has written extensively on the social construction of disability and states that \"Unless Deaf people challenge the culturally determined meanings of \"deaf\" and \"disability\" with at least as much vigor as the technologies of normalization seek to institutionalize those meanings, the day will continue to recede in which Deaf children and adults live the fullest lives and make the fullest contribution to our diverse society.\" In recognition of his research and advocacy regarding these issues, Lane has received the Distinguished Service Award from the National Association of the Deaf (United States), the International Social Merit Award from the World Federation of the Deaf, and numerous other awards.\n\nHe is \"Commandeur de l'Ordre des Palmes Académiques\", the highest level of the academic honor given out by the French government.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3273981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3273981", "title": "Hopwood v. Texas", "text": "Hopwood v. Texas\n\nHopwood v. Texas, 78 F.3d 932 (5th Cir. 1996), was the first successful legal challenge to a university's affirmative action policy in student admissions since \"Regents of the University of California v. Bakke\". In \"Hopwood\", four white plaintiffs who had been rejected from University of Texas at Austin's School of Law challenged the institution's admissions policy on equal protection grounds and prevailed. After seven years as a precedent in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, the \"Hopwood\" decision was abrogated by the U.S. Supreme Court in 2003.\n\nAfter being rejected by the University of Texas School of Law in 1992, Cheryl J. Hopwood filed a federal lawsuit against the University on September 29, 1992, in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Texas. Hopwood, a white female, was denied admission to the law school despite being better qualified (at least under certain metrics) than many admitted minority candidates. Originally, Hopwood's co-plaintiff was Stephanie C. Haynes, but Haynes was dismissed from the suit on February 11, 1993. Ultimately, three white males, Douglas Carvell, Kenneth Elliott, and David Rogers, joined the existing lawsuit as plaintiffs. All had better combined LSAT and grade scores than 36 of the 43 Latinos admitted, and 16 of the 18 black students admitted. U.S. District Judge Sam Sparks, a 1963 graduate of the University of Texas School of Law, presided over the case.\n\n\"Texas Monthly\" editor Paul Burka later described Cheryl Hopwood as \"the perfect plaintiff to question the fairness of reverse discrimination\" because of her academic credentials and her personal hardships (she has a young daughter suffering from a muscular disease).\n\nAfter an eight-day bench trial in May 1994, Judge Sparks issued his ruling on August 19, 1994. He determined that the University could continue to use the racial preferences which had been at issue in the litigation. In his ruling, he noted that while it was \"regrettable that affirmative action programs are still needed in our society\", they were still \"a necessity\" until society could overcome its legacy of institutional racism. Thereupon, the four plaintiffs appealed the case to the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals, which heard oral arguments in the case on August 8, 1995.\n\nNearly two years after the original trial, on March 18, 1996, the Fifth Circuit issued its opinion, which was written by Circuit Judge Jerry Edwin Smith. The court held that \"the University of Texas School of Law may not use race as a factor in deciding which applicants to admit in order to achieve a diverse student body, to combat the perceived effects of a hostile environment at the law school, to alleviate the law school's poor reputation in the minority community, or to eliminate any present effects of past discrimination by actors other than the law school\". Judge Jacques L. Wiener, Jr., concurred. Rehearing was denied on April 4, 1996.\n\nThe University appealed the decision to the U.S. Supreme Court, which declined to review the case on July 1, 1996. In an opinion on the denial of \"certiorari\", Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, joined by Justice David Souter, noted that the issue of the constitutionality of race in admission was \"an issue of great national importance\". However, Justice Ginsburg explained that the University was no longer defending the specific admissions policy that had been at issue in the lawsuit and was rather attempting to justify only the rationale for maintaining a race-based admissions policy. Accordingly, because the Supreme Court reviews judgments and not opinions, Justice Ginsburg stated that it \"must await a final judgment on a program genuinely in controversy before addressing the important question raised in this petition\". Thus, the \"Hopwood\" decision became the final law of the land with respect to the use of race in admissions in Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas, the three states over which the Fifth Circuit has jurisdiction.\n\nUniversity officials were not pleased with the opinion. Shortly after the opinion's release, UT President Robert Berdahl predicted \"the virtual resegregation of higher education,\" while UT System Chancellor William Cunningham noted that administrators were \"saddened by the 5th Circuit's sweeping determination that \"Bakke\" is no longer the law of the land and that past discrimination and diversity no longer justify affirmative action in admissions\".\n\nThe Fifth Circuit's opinion catalyzed a discussion of race in admissions on campus. Faculty and students protested. For the next several years, the case was a popular topic of discussion and debate in \"The Daily Texan\", the University's student newspaper.\n\nThe Texas legislature passed the Top Ten Percent Rule governing admissions into public colleges in the state, partly in order to mitigate some of the effects of the Hopwood decision.\n\nOn January 15, 1997, William P. Hobby, Jr., former Lieutenant Governor of Texas and then Chancellor of the University of Houston System, sought a clarification of the application of \"Hopwood\" from Texas Attorney General Dan Morales. Specifically, Hobby questioned how the new federal jurisprudence would affect financial aid at institutions of higher education in Texas (and in particular, its effect on specific programs of the University of Houston—mainly admissions to the University of Houston Law Center). On February 5, 1997, Morales issued his formal opinion in response to Hobby's request. Morales found that \"Hopwood's restrictions would generally apply to all internal institutional policies, including admissions, financial aid, scholarships, fellowships, recruitment and retention, among others\". Thus, under the Morales interpretation, \"Hopwood\" was extended to prevent the consideration of race in areas beyond admissions.\n\nOn June 23, 2003, the Supreme Court abrogated \"Hopwood\" in \"Grutter v. Bollinger\", in which the high court found that the United States Constitution \"does not prohibit the law school's narrowly tailored use of race in admissions decisions to further a compelling interest in obtaining the educational benefits that flow from a diverse student body\". The ruling means that universities in the Fifth Circuit's jurisdiction can again use race as a factor in admissions (as long as quotas are not used, per \"Gratz v. Bollinger\".\n\nGood. Michael. 2007. \"An Evaluation of the Impact of Hopwood on Minority Enrollment at the University of Texas at Austin.\" Applied Research Project. Texas State University. http://ecommons.txstate.edu/arp/203/\n"}
{"id": "483033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=483033", "title": "International Meteorological Organization", "text": "International Meteorological Organization\n\nThe International Meteorological Organization (IMO; 1873–1951) was the first organization formed with the purpose of exchanging weather information among the countries of the world. It came into existence from the realization that weather systems move across country boundaries; and that knowledge of pressure, temperature, precipitations, etc. upstream and downstream is needed for weather forecasting. It was superseded by the World Meteorological Organization\n\nThere had been significant developments in meteorology in the 19th century. C. H. D. Buys Ballot's 1872 paper \"Suggestions on a Uniform System of Meteorological Observations\" led to the idea of forming the International Meteorological Organization in 1873.\n\nMatthew Fontaine Maury, of the US Navy, initiated the convening of the first true International Meteorological conference from late August through early September 1853. The Conference opened its proceedings at Brussels, Belgium, on the 23d August 1853, in the residence of M. Piercot, the Minister of the Interior. The Governments represented at the first International Conference, and the names of the officers who attended were :\n\nThis meeting was followed by an International Meteorological Congress in Vienna, Austria-Hungary, in September 1873 which agreed to prepare for an \"International Meteorological Organization\" (\"IMO\"). The members of that organization would be the directors of national meteorological services. A Permanent Meteorological Committee was established with Buys Ballot, director of the Dutch meteorological service, becoming the first president.\n\nA second congress in Rome 1879 decided on the IMO establishment and elected an International Meteorological Committee to prepare for the next Conference of Directors. There was however no separate funding. Also the directors agreed on a collaborative research effort with the International Polar Year 1882-1883. The first International Meteorological Tables were published in 1889.\n\nThe 1891 Conference of Directors of Meteorological Services convened in Munich. The organization was further refined by electing an Executive Bureau and deciding upon the first permanent topic commission, the Commission for Terrestrial Magnetism.\n\nThe 1896 Conference of Directors in Paris established more commissions: the Commission for Radiation and Insolation, and the Commission for Aeronautics. At the same year IMO published the first International Cloud Atlas.\n\nIn 1905 the Conference of Directors convened in Innsbruck. Léon Teisserenc de Bort proposed a telegraph-based worldwide weather station network, the \"Réseau Mondial\". Simplifying Teisserenc de Bort’s vision, the IMO decided that the network should collect, calculate, and distribute monthly and annual averages for pressure, temperature, and precipitation from a well-distributed sample of land based on meteorological stations, in effect a global climatological database. The distribution\nstandard was two stations within each ten-degree latitude/longitude quadrangle. Ultimately, the network comprises about 500 land stations between 80°N and 61°S. The first annual data set, for 1911, appeared in 1917.\n\nBetween the two world wars there were four further Conferences of Directors, 1919 in Paris, 1923 in Utrecht, 1929 in Copenhagen and 1935 in Warsaw. The IMO did not acquire a permanent secretariat until 1926, and the latter’s annual budget never exceeded USD 20,000\n\nIn September 1929 the Copenhagen Conference of Directors set up a technical Commission For Climatology, which held a meeting at Innsbruck discussing issues such as the relationship between dynamic meteorology and climatology. At its 1934 Wiesbaden meeting the Commission designated the thirty-year period from 1901 to 1930 as the reference time frame for climatological standard normals. the baseline for measuring climate fluctuations.\n\nThe 1946 Conference of Directors acknowledged the need for an organisation supported by governments. Preparations continued with conferences in 1947 in Washington DC and 1961 in Paris. In 1951 the World Meteorological Organization became a specialized agency of the United Nations in direct succession of the IMO. The members of the WMO are representatives of their respective countries, not their weather services.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "880676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=880676", "title": "Jonathan Idema", "text": "Jonathan Idema\n\nJonathan Keith \"Jack\" Idema (May 30, 1956January 21, 2012) was a former U.S. Army reserve special operations non-commissioned officer. In September 2004 he was found guilty of running a private prison in Afghanistan and torturing Afghan citizens. At the time, Idema had been portraying himself as a U.S. government-sponsored special forces operative on a mission to apprehend terrorists. However, the U.S. government has repeatedly denied most of such claims.\n\nIdema was released early by Afghanistan's president Hamid Karzai in April 2007, departing Afghanistan in early June. He served served three years of a ten-year sentence.\n\nIdema died of AIDS in Mexico in late January 2012.\n\nIdema was raised in Poughkeepsie, New York, graduating from high school there in 1974. In February 1975 he enlisted in the U.S. Army. His father H. John Idema, a former Marine and World War II veteran, believed that his son was a \"dedicated American\". H. John Idema died in November 2008.\n\nThere is a discrepancy between what Idema says his military experience was as a member of the U.S. Army Special Forces and what is stated in his official military record. Idema has repeatedly stated on television, radio, and in writing that he acquired 12 years of Special forces service, 22 years of combat training, and 18 years of covert operations experience.\n\nIdema's military career was short and contained several reports of poor performance, with no record that he acquired any combat experience. Two years after enlisting in the Army in 1975, he qualified for the Special Forces.\n\nAccording to his military record obtained in the course of his 1994 fraud trial, after serving one term of service Idema was not allowed to reenlist, likely due to poor performance. He had received numerous negative remarks from superior officers in addition to participating in three non-judicial punishment proceedings. Idema was cited for \"failure to obey orders, being derelict in the performance of his duty, and being disrespectful to a superior commanding officer.\" One superior officer, Capt. John D. Carlson stated that Idema \"is without a doubt the most unmotivated, unprofessional, immature enlisted man I have ever known.\"\n\nHowever, he was given an honorable discharge and allowed to join the United States Army Reserve 11th Special Forces Group working to provide logistical support. In a November 1, 1980 letter of reprimand, Major Paul R. Decker wrote that Idema \"consistently displayed an attitude of noncooperation with persons outside his immediate working environment, disregard for authority and gross immaturity characterized by irrationality and a tendency toward violence.\" In January 1981, Idema was relieved of his Army Reserve duties, his last position was the assistant sergeant of operations and intelligence. After leaving the Army reserves, he became a member of the Individual Ready Reserve until he left the military completely in 1984.\n\nSeveral years after he left the Army, Idema became involved in the paintball business, opening a paintball supply and equipment company in Fayetteville, North Carolina, named Idema Combat Systems. He later segued that business into a paramilitary clothier and supply company operating under the same name.\n\nSometime in the early 1980s Idema founded Counter Group (also known as US Counter-Terrorist Group), a business entity which, according to its website, specializes in expert training for counter-terrorism, assault tactics and other security-related services.\n\nCounter Group's legal status and ownership is questionable – according to a \"Soldier of Fortune\" article published in 2004, Idema is mentioned as the owner. The company website lists a PO Box address Lafayettele, but there is no record of the company's registration in that state. However, a company called \"Counter Group, Inc.\" was incorporated in 1997 by William L. London, a lawyer who has represented Idema in several lawsuits. (The status for this company is listed as \"suspended\" as of 2004.)\n\nThe only company in North Carolina registered to Jonathan Idema is Idema Combat Systems, which according to state records was incorporated in January 1991 and dissolved in July 1994. Moreover, the websites for Counter Group are registered to Thomas R. Bumback, a business associate of Idema's who is believed to be the company's current director. There is a record of Counterr Group being formed in Poughkeepsie, New York in 1983, but the company is listed as \"inactive.\"\n\nIdema also owned a company called Special Operations Exposition and Trade Show Inc which hosted organized conventions for military equipment suppliers.\n\nThere are two other known companies – Isabeau Dakota, Inc. and Star America Aviation Company, Ltd. – that have connections to Idema. The latter claims to be an aviation support company founded in July 2008 with operations based out of Dubai. Both companies are registered to William \"Skip\" London in North Carolina, but Isabeau Dakota is listed a shell company; its last annual report, filed in 2002, identifies \"H. John Idema\" (Idema's father) of Poughkeepsie, New York as president and sole officer, and it lists no significant assets or business activity. The website for Star America Aviation is also registered to Bumback and the websites for Counterr Group and Star America Aviation are very similar, including the use of imagery depicting Idema, while he was in Afghanistan and prior to his arrest.\n\nIdema's former Afghan charity \"Northern Alliance Assistance\" at 450 Robeson Street, Fayetteville, NC 28302 is now listed as a dog kennel.\n\nIn addition to his occasional entrepreneurial pursuits, Idema has a substantial criminal record. Over the years Idema has been charged with impersonating an officer, conspiracy, passing bad checks, assault, possession of stolen property, and discharging a firearm into a dwelling. In January 1994, Idema was arrested and charged with 58 counts of wire fraud defrauding 59 companies of about $260,000. He was convicted of the charges, sentenced to six years in prison (paroled after having served three years) and was subsequently ordered to pay restitution.\n\nIdema was involved in multiple lawsuits, including suits against journalists, an aid worker, a colonel, his father, and the United States government. A prominent lawsuit was against Steven Spielberg and Dreamworks Studios, in which Idema contended that he was the basis of a character in the 1997 Dreamworks film \"The Peacemaker\". The claim was dismissed, and Mr. Idema was ordered to pay $267,079 in legal fees.\n\nOn August 15, 2001, a jury awarded Idema $781,818 for property damage and $1 million for punitive damages. The award came after a jury decided that a property manager improperly sold some of his belongings while Idema was serving his fraud sentence. Two property managers were hired by Idema to take care of a building that housed equipment for two of his businesses, Special Operations Exposition and Trade Show Inc., and Idema Combat Systems. According to the lawsuit, equipment was missing, damaged or destroyed, and holes were punched in the walls of the building. Idema sued both property managers and their wives on April 10, 2000, but everyone except for one property manager was later dropped from the suit. Idema never collected the 1.8 million because the property manager that was found liable declared bankruptcy and Idema settled for 650,000 dollars that he obtained through law suits filed against insurance carriers. Idema's father was the insured.\n\nIn June 2005, an investigator sued Idema alleging that he wasn't paid when Idema won the 1.8 million dollar lawsuit. The investigator claimed that Idema orally agreed to pay 15% of any amount collected, he also claimed that Idema failed to pay court reporters, expert witnesses, and others who helped him with his case.\n\nIn 1993 Idema was contracted to train police forces in the former Soviet republic of Lithuania. After his return, he contacted officials from both the Pentagon and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), claiming to have uncovered a conspiracy by the Russian Mafia to smuggle nuclear material out of Lithuania. According to Idema, FBI agents demanded he provide the names of his contacts. He refused, claiming that the FBI was infiltrated by KGB agents and that his sources would have been killed.\n\nIt was around this time that Idema was being investigated for wire fraud and eventually convicted in 1994. Idema asserted that the fraud charges were fabricated by FBI agent Earl Edwin Pitts, who he claims supervised the case against him, in retaliation for Idema's earlier refusal to provide sources in the smuggling plot. However, the FBI began their investigation into Idema's activities as early as May 1991, before he even approached the Bureau about Lithuania. Furthermore, there is no evidence that Pitts was involved in any capacity in the fraud case against Idema.\n\nIllegal entry into Afghanistan was one of the charges leveled against Idema and two other Americans accompanying him – former soldier Brent Bennett and television journalist Edward Caraballo. That charge was eventually dropped.\n\nIdema first traveled to Afghanistan in November 2001 to conduct what he said was \"humanitarian relief\" work. It was at this time that he involved himself in the research Robin Moore was conducting for his book \"The Hunt for Bin Laden\". He was actually working for National Geographic with Gary Scurka.\n\nAccording to Gary Scurka, a reporter for CBS News, Idema contacted him a few weeks after the September 11 terror attacks and announced he was going to Afghanistan to do humanitarian-aid work, saying he was to work with Knightsbridge International and the Partners International Foundation, two aid groups run by former military personnel. This led to Scurka and Idema presenting a film documentary project for \"National Geographic.\"\n\nIdema, Gary Scurka, and Greg Long traveled to Tashkent, Uzbekistan, where they were arrested for visa problems and held in a cell overnight. The three were freed after their captors received a letter from the US embassy in Uzbekistan, written by an officer in the US Defense Attache's Office, describing Idema and Scurka as \"contracting officers from the Defense Department who arrived to the Republic of Uzbekistan for an official trip.\" The letter, which was verified as authentic by the director of the Department of State's press office, was dated November 2, 2001, and asks Uzbekistan's ministry of foreign affairs for help in issuing visas to Idema, Gary Scurka, and Greg Long.\n\nGreg Long was a member of Partners International Foundation. Idema then joined Partners International Foundation at the same time Scurka received a National Geographic assignment to produce a documentary on humanitarian aid work in Afghanistan. A memo signed by the president of National Geographic TV says Scurka would be going to Afghanistan with KnightsBridge International, and the leader of KnightsBridge, Edward Artis, would be working with Idema. Artis was sued by Idema.\n\nAuthor Robert Young Pelton believes that Idema then used those letters and what appears to be a falsified or modified military ID. Idema claimed he had a visa similar to those carried by US special forces to convince the Afghan commanders and other people of his official status.\n\nAfter Idema entered Afghanistan, both humanitarian organizations quickly became wary of Idema's intentions. In December 2001, Edward Artis, director of Knightsbridge, wrote to U.S. Army Special Operations Command warning them of Idema's activities, stating:\n\nIdema later filed suit against Artis and Knightsbridge but the case was dismissed and a monetary judgement was in turn placed against him.\n\nIdema led a group he called \"Task Force Saber 7\" consisting of two other Americans and several Afghans. The group may have been operating in Afghanistan with independent financial backing or with funds from two lawsuit settlements Idema had won a few years earlier, one of which was for $1.8 million. He frequently interacted with reporters, often going to great lengths in his interviews to stress connections with the CIA and Special Forces. Some supporters suggest that he was a former member of an unspecified covert operations unit, reactivated and positioned in Afghanistan to hunt for Osama Bin Laden under operation Alec Station. Relationship to the Northern Alliance was denied by their official representative in the United States.\n\nSome critics of Idema claim that his attempts to create a high profile with the media make it unlikely that Idema was officially connected with any branch of the military; covert operatives go to great lengths to avoid public appearances and media, and are barred from unauthorized contact. The fact that Caraballo, who was not a soldier, was with Idema in Afghanistan to document his activities strained credibility that Idema was operating covertly.\n\nIdema was known to have a volatile temper that seemed to be particularly directed against news correspondents assigned to Kabul. On several occasions, Idema threatened journalists with bodily harm or death, and in one particular instance, at a dinner in December 2001 he threatened to kill a reporter from \"Stars and Stripes\" because the reporter had disclosed Idema's fraud conviction.\n\nIt has been recorded that Idema did frequently contact the Defense Department through the front office of General William G. Boykin in the Pentagon, and that his information was duly acknowledged. However, all of those contacts were outside the US Military operating channels, and were all one-sided calls from Afghanistan via his Idemas personal Satellite Phone. Boykins office repeatedly asked Idema to stop making these unsolicited phone calls, because they were disruptive; time consuming; and Boykin could not be of assistance. Idema continued calling Boykins office to establish some sort of self-serving relationship, until his arrest. While the US government was aware of Idema's activities in Afghanistan, they stated there was unequivocally no relationship between them.\n\nThe United States Central Command stated that Coalition forces received one detainee from Idema on May 3, 2004. Idema claimed that the individual was associated with the Taliban. Once in US custody, however, the detainee was determined not to be who Idema claimed, and was released in the first week of July.\n\nThe United States was not the only government that had contact with Idema in Afghanistan; On three occasions, Idema tricked the Canadian led NATO mission into providing explosives experts and bomb sniffing dogs. According to a spokesman for the ISAF, Idema called for and received technical support after his vigilante team raided compounds on June 20, 22, and 24 of 2004. ISAF personnel believed they were \"providing legitimate support to a legitimate security agency.\"\n\nIdema also received assistance from Yunus Qanooni; former minister, senior Afghan government security advisor, and influential member of the Northern Alliance. In one video tape presented at Idema's trial, Yunus Qanooni thanked Idema for uncovering an assassination plot against him. In the same tape Qanooni volunteered his personal security troops to help Idema with arrests. Another tape appeared to show Qanooni's forces assisting Idema in a house raid.\n\nOn July 4, 2004, the United States Central Command released a media advisory that read:\n\nIn perhaps the most terse assessment of Idema's alleged involvement in Operation Enduring Freedom, Billy Waugh, senior CIA covert operative and decorated former Green Beret who was a member of the Agency-run \"Jawbreaker\" team, said:\n\nIdema and his associates Brent Bennett and Edward Caraballo were arrested on July 5, 2004, by Afghan police during a raid in which they found eight Afghan men (some hanging from their feet) bound and hooded in detention. The arrest of Idema occurred only about three months after \"60 Minutes II\" broke the story about the Abu Ghraib torture and prisoner abuse scandal.\n\nIdema claimed to have had private contact with Lieutenant General Boykin and several other senior Pentagon officials, and at his trial introduced taped conversations with staff of General Boykin's office, although not directly with Boykin himself. In the conversations, the staff members say that they will pass Idema's information along to proper authorities. However, the judge stated that the videos were \"inconclusive\" and that he lacked concrete, documentary evidence. American Embassy officials stated that as far as they knew neither Mr. Idema nor anyone in his group was working for a government agency, and the military issued statements saying Idema was impersonating government or military officials and did not represent either.\n\nHe tried further to prove his official status when he claimed to be working for the US Counter Terrorism group, the same group that some sources say he founded. He claimed his group had prevented assassination attempts on Education Minister Yunus Qanooni and Defense Minister Marshal Mohammad Qasim Fahim. He also claimed the FBI interrogated several militants captured by his group and that after his arrest, the FBI removed from his premises hundreds of videos, photos and documents. Some of the pieces were later returned to Idema and his defense team. One of the videotapes shows Afghanistan's former education minister Yunus Qanooni thanking Idema for the arrest of two people, and offering his full cooperation in future raids.\n\nThe Defense Department's only official contact with Idema was accepting one prisoner who was held for a month by the US military but added that officials declined his offer to work with the government in capturing terror suspects in Afghanistan. In early 2004, Idema was in contact with Heather Anderson, the Pentagon's Acting Director of Security. Anderson was under the supervision of the chief official responsible for intelligence matters in Donald Rumsfeld's office. Idema told the Afghan court that Anderson commended his work but Anderson said she later turned down Idema's request to work in Afghanistan for the Pentagon. Idema continued to contact Anderson's office in hopes of establishing a relationship.\n\nIdema, Caraballo and Bennett were charged with entering the country illegally, running a private prison, and torture. Idema's American attorney was John Tiffany. During the trial, Idema charged that he, Caraballo, and Bennett were being beaten while in Afghan custody; however, US authorities stated the men were being treated humanely.\n\nOn 15 September 2004, a three-judge Afghan panel headed by Judge Abdul Baset Bakhtyari sentenced both Idema and Bennett to a ten-year prison term, while Caraballo received eight years. Idema and Bennett's sentences were later cut to five and three respectively. Caraballo claimed he was filming Idema and Bennett for a documentary on counterterrorism. Four Afghans working with Idema were sentenced to between one and five years imprisonment.\n\nCaraballo was later pardoned by President Hamid Karzai and later returned to the United States. Bennett was freed early for good behavior on September 30, 2006.\n\nCaraballo's lawyer said that the day before Caraballo left Afghanastan, Caraballo and Bennett lived in a filthy 6 by 8-foot cell with four suspected Al Qaida terrorists; the American prisoners were moved to a different prison for better protection. In a more recent assessment, the cell in which the prisoners lived was described as \"posh\".\n\nOn April 10, 2007, the Associated Press reported that Idema would soon be released from prison and then sent back to the United States, and that the Afghan government had granted him amnesty. However, under the amnesty that commuted his sentence he was effectively released on April 4.\n\nIdema refused to leave the prison, first demanding that his passport, personal effects, and documents that he says proves his official connection with the US government be returned to him. According to him, he was owed compensation for $500,000 worth of equipment, mostly computers, weapons and cameras, that was confiscated by the Afghan government when he was arrested. Having obtained through the offices of the U.S. Embassy in Kabul a new passport as well as money to apply for a visa to India, Idema insisted that his belongings be returned and that a pet dog previously owned by Bennett be allowed to travel with him.\n\nIdema also filed another lawsuit against the US government, reaffirming allegations initially made in 2005 that he and his associates had been illegally imprisoned, except that this time, Idema was claiming that he was tortured. According to US District Judge Emmet G. Sullivan, \"Petitioners allege that United States officials ordered their arrest, ordered their torture, stole exculpatory evidence during their trial and appeal, exerted undue influence over Afghan judges, and either directly or indirectly ordered judges who found petitioners innocent not to release petitioners from prison.\" This was a shift from the earlier strategy on the part of Idema to exonerate himself on the basis that he was acting on a Pentagon-approved mission. Instead the focus was on the trial itself, specifically whether or not due process was observed, with the added claim of being a torture victim. In both instances Idema accused the U.S. government of deliberately withholding information.\n\nJudge Sullivan subsequently ordered the FBI and the US Department of State to answer the allegations. Attorneys from the US Justice Department have requested the case be dismissed on the grounds that Idema's sentence had been commuted. Idema's lawyer said the government coordinated Idema's amnesty to avoid having to respond to allegations of misconduct.\n\nIdema's allegations of withheld evidence were originally made during his Afghan trial in 2004. When the men were arrested in early July, the tapes were confiscated by the FBI. Caraballo's lawyer, Michael Skibbie, claims that he was only allowed to access a portion of the tapes weeks after he requested access. Several of the tapes were used; however, Skibbie said several important tapes were damaged, missing or partly erased after the FBI took custody of them. Some of the footage Skibbie obtained was shown in court. The court tapes showed Idema being greeted at an airport by high level Afghan officials, Idema being thanked by Yunus Qanuni, Qanooni's troops working with Idema, captured suspects confessing during interrogation, and ISAF forces helping Idema.\n\nAs he was playing out his legal options, Idema said that another reason he hadn't left was because he feared for his life, ostensibly at the hands of the Afghan government. \"I could drive through the Policharki [sic] gates right now. Then what happens? I get arrested. [The intelligence service] will arrest me for not having an Afghan visa and they'll torture me and kill me. If I'm lucky, I'm only going to be tortured,\" he said.\nOn June 2, 2007, Idema left the prison and was immediately flown out of the country.\n\nAfter leaving Afghanistan, Idema moved to Mexico to become a proprietor of Blue Lagoon Boat Tours out of Bacalar, on the Yucatan Peninsula, under the name of \"Black Jack\". He was charged by his former girlfriend Penny Alesi of infecting her with HIV when he knew he had the disease. His arrest warrant and publicity surrounding the wife beating charges were picked up in a number of local Mexican newspapers and the US media, including Wired Danger Room, Virginian Pilot and as well as blogs.\n\nHe claimed to have had nine wives, according to Alesi, although only one of them may have been legal, and at his death, he was listed as having no immediate survivors.\n\nAccording to his father's obituary notice, Idema is said to be a \"Green Beret with an organization involved in the War on Terror.\"\n\nIdema had some success convincing members of the media that he was a terrorism expert. This allowed him to secure interviews and in some instances get his \"terrorism videos\" broadcast on television. After indicating to journalists that he had the videos in his possession, he would usually agree to provide them in exchange for money. Since Idema's questionable history has come to light, the news media has been criticized for its willingness to distribute any content or information coming from him.\n\nAt the center of the controversy is Idema's claim that while in Afghanistan he was acting on behalf of the U.S. government and that he was an advisor to the Northern Alliance. At other times, Idema told people he was in Afghanistan doing humanitarian work or that he was a \"security consultant\" for journalists. He also actively sought media attention for himself and his activities – to the point of offering interviews in return for payment – even though he himself said he was operating covertly.\n\nMany believe Idema to be a con artist or impostor, based on his refusal or inability to demonstrate verifiable proof for his claims, on legal records that contradict his assertions about his background, as well as on a prior conviction for mail fraud and a history of criminal activity. Some have suggested that he may also be delusional in having concocted a fantasy-type personality for himself as a highly trained covert operative combating international terrorism, despite a brief and mostly non-notable military record (which states that Idema was in the Special Forces strictly in a support capacity). This opinion was echoed by Major Scott Nelson, the U.S. military spokesperson in Kabul at the time of Idema's arrest in 2004. The judge in Idema's 1994 fraud trial also questioned Idema's psychological state and ordered him to undergo evaluation prior to his sentencing. The report said that while he was not \"mentally ill\", Idema had a \"personality disorder which would affect his interaction with persons exhibiting similar traits, such as supervisors, attorneys, doctors, judges and other persons in positions of power or authority.\"\n\nIn the early 1990s, Idema said he had uncovered a plot by the Russian mafia to smuggle nuclear weapons out of Russia. Before that he said he participated in covert operations in Latin America. Furthermore, he said that as a soldier he parachuted out of airplanes accompanied by his dog Sarge, who was also trained as a bomb-sniffer. (Idema reportedly saved Sarge's genetic material with the hopes of later cloning the pet.)\n\nIdema was not without his supporters, usually found among blogs sympathetic to his situation. The contributors to these blogs believe that he is being unjustly punished for actions condoned, if not officially sanctioned, by the U.S. military. However, there has been little support for Idema's claims in general media outlets. Indeed, many members of the media who encountered Idema while they were on assignment in Afghanistan regard him as a fraud.\n\nIn 1995, while Idema was awaiting sentencing for fraud charges, he agreed to provide information to CBS News about the nuclear materials smuggling plot he allegedly uncovered. Gary Scurka produced a \"60 Minutes\" piece entitled \"The Worst Nightmare\", based in part on Idema's account. According to Scurka, the network declined to credit Idema during the broadcast because of the fraud conviction, even though he was a major source for the story. A CBS spokesperson claimed that the story took 6 months to fully investigate, by which time it was very different from the one Idema gave. Both the \"60 Minutes\" story and a companion piece published in \"US News and World Report\" received the prestigious \"Renner Award for Outstanding Crime Reporting\".\n\nThe lack of credit given to Idema prompted Scurka and Caraballo to begin making a documentary film with the working title, \"Any Lesser Man: The Keith Idema Story\". According to promotional materials, the documentary was to be \"the real story of one lone Green Beret's private war against KGB Nuclear Smuggling, Soviet spies, Arab terrorists, and the FBI.\" It was never completed.\n\nIdema and Scurka again worked together as consultants for the \"48 Hours\" story about Colonel George Marecek, a highly decorated Special Forces soldier accused and later convicted of murdering his wife. The two were fired from the project because they were determined to be taking an advocacy role for the defense. They opened a \"Free Marecek\" office in the town where the trial was taking place. In December 2000, \"48 Hours\" ran the story on Marecek which included material from Idema, and Scurka's research. Idema also took a leading part in the formation of Point Blank News (PBN) to support Marecek.\n\nOn the day following the attacks, Idema gave an interview as a \"counterterrorism adviser\" to KTTV, the Fox network affiliate in Los Angeles. During his broadcast news appearance, he said that the hijackers might have seized three Canadian jetliners, in addition to four American planes.\n\nIdema sold tapes to many publishers that he claimed showed an Al Qaeda training camp in action. The tapes showed men in camouflaged tunics and ski masks storming buildings, practicing drive-by shootings, and attacking golf courses. CBS bought the right to broadcast the tapes before any other network, they were used in a \"60 Minutes II\" episode called, \"Heart of Darkness\" in mid January 2002. CBS presented Idema and the tapes he supplied as reliable.\n\nIdema made more money from the same tapes when he sold them to \"The Boston Globe\", MSNBC, ABC, NBC, the BBC, and others rights to rebroadcast the Al Qaeda training camp footage with still pictures.\n\nThe authenticity of the several hours of tape is disputed because the supposed tactics shown are not ones Al Qaeda operatives utilize. Moreover, men who were shown in the footage occasionally communicated in English and laughed, providing credence to the notion that the tapes were fake and entirely staged. Some major outlets, including NBC Nightly News and CNN declined to broadcast the tapes because of the credibility issue.\n\nAl Qaeda itself appears to have used some of Idema's footage in their September 2008 video release. In a segment released by ABC, Idema appears \"to threaten to kill an Afghan citizen during an interrogation.\" Al Qaeda claims to have \"captured\" the footage from Idema, but its provenance remains unclear.\n\nIdema sought to show that he had inside knowledge of Al Qaeda's collaboration with state governments, although his statements would not be considered particularly insightful, correct or original. For instance, he has made suggestions that there was collaboration among North Korea, several Middle-Eastern countries and Al Qaeda, and that was ample evidence linking \"Iraq, Iran, and Saudi Arabia to Al Qaeda and to the attacks on September 11,\" and that in Afghanistan, the link between Iraq and Al Qaeda was \"common knowledge.\" He also has said that Iraq under Saddam Hussein was a supporter of Al Qaeda and other terrorist organizations \"with money, with equipment, with technology, with weapons of mass destruction.\" He also claimed to have firsthand knowledge of nuclear weapons being smuggled from Russia to Iraq, Iran, and North Korea.\n\nAn Al Qaeda video released in September 2009 appears to contain video clips of Idema torturing an Afghan by dunking his head in a bucket of water. This footage was used to make the case that the US is involved in torture in Afghanistan.\n\n\nIdema died of AIDS on January 21, 2012, in Mexico.\n\nDocuments released under FOIA show that the Department of Justice and FBI had been operating an active investigation of Idema as-from 2005.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3209027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3209027", "title": "Kehar Singh", "text": "Kehar Singh\n\nKehar Singh, an assistant in the Directorate General of Supply and Disposal, New Delhi, was tried and executed for conspiracy in the plot of the Indira Gandhi assassination, carried out by Satwant Singh and Beant Singh. He was hanged in Tihar Jail on 6 January 1989. Beant Singh was the nephew of Kehar Singh.\nThe assassination was \"motivated\" by Operation Blue Star, in which Indian Armed Forces personnel engaged an assault on the Golden Temple Complex at Amritsar. It was carried out starting on 3 June 1984. This was a military operation to control the Sikh armed rebellion in Punjab.\n\nOperation Blue Star was launched by the Indian Army, to eliminate Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale and his followers who had been forced to seek cover in the Amritsar Golden Temple Complex by operations of the Indian government. The operation was launched in response to a so-called 'deterioration of law and order in the State of Punjab'. The roots of Operation Blue Star can be traced from the so-called 'Khalistan Movement'. The Khalistan Movement is a political creation of the Indian National Congress Party and labeled as the 'Sikh anti-nationalist movement', that sought to create an \"independent state\" for Sikh people, inside the geographic region corresponding to the north-western plains of the Republic of India. The targets of the government were within the Harminder Sahib were led by Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale and former Maj. Gen.Shabeg Singh. Maj. Gen. Kuldip Singh Brar had command of the action, operating under General Krishnaswamy Sundarji, of the Indian army.\n\nThe Golden Temple compound and some of the surrounding houses were fortified. \"The Statesman\" reported on 4 July that light machine-guns and semi-automatic rifles were known to have been brought into the compound by the militants. \nFaced with imminent army action and with the foremost Sikh political organisation, Shiromani Akali Dal (headed by Harchand Singh Longowal), abandoning him, Bhindranwale declared [that], \"This bird is alone. There are many hunters after it\".\n\n\"TIME\" reported (about Amritsar) that:\n\n\"These days it more closely resembles a city of death. Inside the temple compound, violent Sikh fanatics wield submachine guns, resisting arrest by government security forces. Outside, the security men keep a nervous vigil, all too aware that the bodies of murdered comrades often turn up in the warren of tiny streets around the shrine.\"\n\nDespite these violent events blessed by the Indian government and blamed on Bhindranwale, the desecration of the holy shrine of the Golden Temple and Harminder Sahib caused outrage within the Sikh community against the Indian State. Sympathizers of Bhindranwale claimed that the attacks were \"pre-planned\" and that the anti-Sikh violence which followed was government orchestrated.\nBeant Singh was killed by gunfire at the scene of the assassination of Indira Gandhi. Satwant Singh was arrested and Kehar Singh was later arrested for conspiracy in the assassination. Both were sentenced to death and hanged in Tihar jail in Delhi.\n\nThe evidence of Bimla Khalsa, wife of Beant Singh indicates that on 17 October 1984, Beant Singh and Kehar Singh were combined and conspiring together. Satwant Singh later joining them for meals lends credence to this conclusion. She had revealed what she was told and what she had witnessed on 17 October 1984, in her own house.\nIn the first week of September 1984, when a falcon (baaz) happened to sit on a tree near the main reception of PM's house, at about 1.30 P.M. Balbir Singh spotted the falcon, and called Beant Singh there and pointed out to the falcon. Both of them agreed that it had brought the message of the Tenth Guru of the Sikhs and that they should do something by way of revenge of the 'Bluestar Operation'. Both of the above accused performed ardas then and there. The visit of Kehar Singh and Beant Singh along with their family members to Amritsar on 20 October. 1984 assumes importance and it is significant, to show how the appearance of the falcon motivated them. Since the 'Bluestar Operation', Balbir Singh was planning to commit the murder of Smt. Indira Gandhi and discussed his plans with Beant Singh, who had similar plans to commit the offence. Balbir Singh also shared his intention and prompted Satwant Singh to commit the murder of Smt. Indira Gandhi and finally discussed this matter with him on 30 October 1984. However, Balbir Singh was acquitted on appeal to the Supreme Court in August. The main conspiracy, which was that of making Khalistan, as alleged by the officially commissioned report on the killing, raises questions about the prosecution's case.\n\nA special mention here is to the 650-page, written judgment in this 1984 assassination of Indira Gandhi, in which the Delhi High Court panel said, \"No excuse or circumstance can . . . mitigate such a treacherous and cowardly act where a defenseless woman was cruelly slaughtered by the 'guardians' of her safety.\"\n\nThe judgment condemned \"the most inhuman mode of killing\" and said, \"Two persons crowding in before an elderly woman and mercilessly pumping into her not one or two but as many as 30 bullets is the ghastly scene to be conjured in the mind's eye.\"\n\nSimilarly in the Supreme Court of India judgement, \"In the instant case, the crime charged was not simply the murdering of the human being, but it was the crime of assassination of the duly elected Prime Minister of the country. The motive for the crime was not personal, but the consequences of the action taken by the Government in the exercise of constitutional powers and duties. In a democratic republic, no person who is duly constituted shall be eliminated by privy conspiracies. The 'Operation Blue Star' was not directed to cause damage to Akal Takht. Nor it was intended to hurt the religious feelings of Sikhs. The decision was taken by the responsible and responsive Government in the national interest. The late Prime Minister Smt. Indira Gandhi was, however, made the target for the consequences of the decision. The security guards who were duty-bound to protect the Prime Minister at the cost of their lives, themselves became the assassins. All values and all ideals in life; all norms and obligations were thrown to the winds. It was a betrayal of the worst order. It was the most foul and senseless assassination. The preparations for and the execution of this egregious crime deserved the dread sentence of the law.\"\n\nRam Jethmalani's last futile battle to save Kehar Singh was fought in the Supreme Court. The apex court that heard two petitions during the working hours and a hurried last minute plea found no merit. \"I am arguing under the shadow of two hangmen\", pleaded Jethmalani. For two hours, Jethmalani and Shanti Bhushan tried to impress that the President had not applied his mind on the mercy petition. Their plea was that the evidence on which he was to be hanged was circumstantial. The five judge bench headed by the Chief Justice refused to intervene. These were the last words of Jethmalani: \"If this court can't intervene then it is not just my client who will hang tomorrow. Something much more vital will die. It will not be Kehar Singh who will be hanged; it will be decency and justice\". Shanti Bhushan, who is father of Prashant Bhushan, said, \"In fact, the court must decide whether a man should ever be sentenced to death on the basis of circumstantial evidence alone. Circumstantial evidence can never remove that last lingering speck of doubt about a man's guilt.\"\n\nIn the adjoining court, R. S. Sodhi, counsel for Satwant Singh, argued that with his hanging, a vital piece of evidence would be lost for ever. Two Indo-Tibet Border Police commandos had opened fire killing Beant Singh on the spot and injuring Satwant Singh immediately after the attack on Indira Gandhi. He only wanted the execution to be stayed till his evidence against the commandos was recorded. The court refused to grant relief. It was around 4.00 pm that a lawyer ran into the court of the Chief Justice, huffing and panting. He wanted to file petition on behalf of Satwant's parents to prove that the entire case stood vitiated. The petition was dismissed within a minute after the lawyer stopped arguing.\n\nAt another level, the International Commission of Jurists pleaded with R. Venkataraman, to grant clemency to Kehar Singh. Commission Secretary General Niall MacDermot, British Labour Party politician, said he was profoundly disturbed by the rejection of pleas for mercy. Following is the text of the appeal:\nThe International Commission of Jurists is profoundly disturbed by the rejection of pleas for mercy which have caused deep concern among the jurists throughout the world. As appears from the judgment, the only substantial evidence on which his conviction was based was that he had talks with Beant Singh on various occasions but there was no evidence as to the contents of those talks. We beseech you to exercise your right and power to have regard to the merits of the case in order to prevent what might be a terrible error of justice.\nHowever, in obscure Mustafabad, the native village of Kehar Singh about 10 km from Bassi Pathana on the Chandigarh-Sirhind road, his relatives were calm on the day of hanging. The relatives had heard the news broadcast by Radio Pakistan in the 9.00 AM bulletin.\n\nKehar Singh, was convicted and hanged to death on a wet and chilly morning of 6 January 1989, for conspiracy in the plot of the Indira Gandhi assassination, carried out by Satwant Singh and Beant Singh. Satwant Singh and Kehar Singh last words were, \"Bole So Nihal, Sat Sri Akal\", and they were allegedly in high spirits. Their ashes were not handed over to their families. The structures erected for their cremation in the Tihar jail were also demolished immediately.\n\nOperation Blue Star had two components to it. The first one was Operation Metal, which was confined to the Harmandir Sahib (the Golden Temple) complex. Operation Metal was followed by Operation Shop. It raided the Punjab countryside, in order to capture any suspects.\nIndia saw a repeat of Operation Blue Star a few years later. Operation Black Thunder was the name given to two operations that took place in India in the late 1980s, to flush out remaining Sikh activists from the Golden Temple. 'Black Cat' commandos of the National Security Guards were used in this operation. Similar to Operation Blue Star, these attacks were towards Khalistani militants who were using the Golden Temple in as a base. The first Operation Black Thunder took place on 30 April 1986. The second Operation Black Thunder began on 9 May 1988. The operation was headed by Kanwar Pal Singh Gill, who was the DGP of Punjab Police.\n\nIn 2003, a Bhog ceremony was held at Akal Takhat, Amritsar where tributes were paid to late Prime Minister of India, Indira Gandhi's assassins.\n\nIn 2004, his death anniversary was again observed at Akal Takhat, Amritsar, where SGPC, Shiromani Akali Dal and head priest of Akal Takhat paid tributes to Satwant Singh and Kehar Singh.\n\nAgain, on 6 January 2008, the highest Sikh temporal seat (Akal Takhat, Amritsar) declared Kehar Singh and other assassins of former prime minister, Indira Gandhi; as martyrs of Sikhism. SGPC also paid homage to both Satwant Singh and Kehar Singh and called them \"martyrs of Sikh nation\". Shiromani Akali Dal observed their death anniversary as 'martyrdom' on 31 October 2008\n\nAs of 2015, the British Sikh community has warned political parties going into general elections in May this year that failure to initiate an independent public inquiry into whether the Margaret Thatcher-led British government provided military assistance to India in planning Operation Blue star 30 years ago, will cost them the all-important Asian vote.\n\nThe Sikh Federation (UK) said on Thursday that it will be releasing the Sikh Manifesto 2015-2020 and naming a prioritised list of 50 target seats where the 700,000 strong Sikh community can determine who is elected in May 2015.\n\nThe Federation is also sending letters to the leaders of each of the main political parties to clarify their positions by 31 March, with regards to demands set out \"in the Sikh Manifesto so the British Sikh community can be advised on the merits of each of the political parties\".\n"}
{"id": "1330553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1330553", "title": "Kurdistan Regional Government", "text": "Kurdistan Regional Government\n\nThe Kurdistan Regional Government (KRG) (, \"Hikûmetî Herêmî Kurdistan)\" is the official ruling body of the legal system in Kurdistan of Iraq commonly referred to as Iraqi Kurdistan or Southern and Basur Kurdistan part of the greater Kurdistan country.\n\nThe cabinet is selected by the majority party or list who also selects the prime minister of the Iraqi Kurdistan region. The president is directly elected by the electorate of the region and is the head of the cabinet and chief of state who delegates executive powers to the cabinet. The prime minister is traditionally the head of the legislative body but also shares executive powers with the president. The president of Iraqi Kurdistan is also the commander-in-chief of the Peshmerga Armed Forces. which is the army of the Kurdish controlled areas in Iraq. On the other hand, the Parliament creates and passes laws by a traditional majority vote, which therefore the president has the power to veto any bill. \n\nSince 1992, the governing bodies have been primarily based in Erbil (, هەولێر), officially declared as the capital of the region. The KRG (abbreviation for Kurdistan regional government) parliament, or the Kurdistan Parliament is elected by popular votes. Voters are given one vote and may choose a single party from the list. The cabinet is selected by the majority party or parties. The majority party or coalition appoints and negotiates terms for the prime minister of the Kurdistan region. Ultimately the president of the Kurdistan region is directly elected by its citizens.\n\nOn 19 May 1992, 6 months after Kurds had gained their freedom, the first elections were held. Due to the 7% threshold the only parties which had a chance of winning seats in parliament were the KDP and the PUK political party. The election resulted in a narrow victory for the KDP, which with 45% of the vote gained 51 seats while the PUK with 44% of the vote gained 49 seats. However, due to allegations of election fraud they divided the seats 50–50 and created a unity government. The government however collapsed and resulted in a civil war breaking out in 1994. The last parliamentary meeting was held in 1996. It resulted in the creation of two Kurdish states, a PUK-controlled state based in Silemani and a KDP-controlled state based in Hewler, both proclaiming themselves as legitimate rulers of Kurdistan.\n\nThe primary goal of the 2005 elections was to end party-rule in the Iraqi Kurdistan and unify the two major parties—the Kurdistan Democratic Party (KDP) and the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan (PUK)—who fought a civil war in the mid-1990s over territorial disputes and control of the Kurdistan Region. Previously, the region was divided up by administrative provinces that were under control of either the KDP or the PUK. In 2004, the two parties created one unified list or coalition called the Democratic Patriotic Alliance of Kurdistan, which included several smaller parties as well. Not surprisingly, the coalition received the majority of votes (an overwhelming 90%) allowing the KDP and PUK to effectively divide key positions in government. The coalition achieved 104 of the 111 seats in parliament.\n\nIn June 2012, the IKP held its first official meeting with Massoud Barzani as the elected president. After six long months, the IKP finally agreed on administration positions. In 2006, the government was selected with Nechervan Idris Barzani as prime minister. The parties also negotiated terms for the prime minister. Nechervan Barzani, who is a member of the KDP, was expected to serve two years and would be replaced with a PUK candidate in 2008.\n\nGovernorate elections were held in Iraq, in 2005, including in the three Kurdish provinces. The elections resulted in a KDP victory in Hewler and Duhok with PUK a victory in Silemani. In total the PUK won the most votes during in these 3 provinces together with a total of 765,544 votes (43.4%) however they won only 48 seats while the KDP with 741,483 votes (42%) won 62 seats. Other parties won only 4 seats in Kurdish provinces. Kurdish parties also won majorities in Ninawa and Kirkuk.\n\nThe latest parliamentary elections were held on 25 July 2009. Kurdistan List, a joint list of KDP and PUK, won the largest share of seats and was tasked to form the next government. Major opposition parties include Change List and Reform List with 25 and 13 seats respectively. The new prime minister, Barham Salih of PUK, assumed office on 28 October 2009. Minority Turkmen have five seats and Christians (Assyrians and Armenians) are represented with four seats. This KRG government comprised 19 ministries.\n\nIn 2005, Massoud Barzani was elected as President of Iraqi Kurdistan by the parliament. In 2009, the KRG decided that the president would no longer be selected by parliament, and instead, direct elections would take place. In the 2009 elections, President Barzani ran for re-election and faced a host of opposing candidates including Halow Ibrahim Ahmed, Kamal Mirawdily, Ahmed Mohammed Rasul and Hussein Garmiyani. The election was a landslide victory for Barzani getting approximately 70% of the votes. Kemal Mirawdily came second with 25%.\n\nThe Kurdish elections were held on 21 September 2013. The former president of Kurdistan Masoud Barzani ran once more for the presidential list. \nThe KRG has assumed governmental responsibility in the federal region of Iraq. As stipulated by the Iraqi constitution, Iraq will be divided into federal regions that will handle their own domestic affairs while the Baghdad central government will deal with international affairs. The single most controversial issue regarding federalism is oil. The KRG under Nechervan Barzani has signed several oil contracts with foreign states, including companies in the United States and China. According to Bloomberg L.P. if it were a country KRG would rank 10th amongst countries with largest reserves. While the KRG asserts that such contracts are legal under Iraqi law and the constitution, many disputes remain as to whether these contracts are legitimate. \n\nThe main Kurdish parties and Peshmerga cooperated with the US-led coalition during the 2003 invasion of Iraq that led to Saddam Hussein's overthrow. After the Ba'ath government failed, Kurdish politicians were finally represented in the Iraqi governing council. On January 30, 2005 three elections were held in the region: 1) for Transitional National Assembly of Iraq 2) for Iraqi Kurdistan National Assembly and 3) for provincial councils. The Law of Administration for the State of Iraq for the Transitional Period recognized the autonomy of the Kurdistan Regional Government during the interim between \"full sovereignty\" and the adoption of a permanent constitution.\n\nThe Kurdistan Regional Government currently has legal constitutional authority over the provinces of Erbil, Duhok, Slemani, and Halabja. Including the \"de facto\" authority over parts of Diyala and Ninawa provinces. Following the 2017 Kurdish Referendum for Independence certain miltias such as the Popular mobilisation forces of Iraq which are openly armed by the Islamic republic of Iran launched attacks that led to the Kirkuk October incident. The end result was that Kurdistan lost control over the city of Kirkuk and smaller areas surrounding the oil rich city i.e Makhmour. Many people argue that some political factions in Kurdistan such as the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan specifically Bavel Talabani of the Talabani tribe betrayed the Kurdish people and other parties as PUK gave the green light for the central government of Baghdad to attack Peshmerga forces that were initially in Kirkuk. \n\nOne particularly difficult issue yet to be resolved is the future boundaries of the region. Many Kurds wish it to be expanded to include the Kurdish majority city of Kirkuk, but this is complicated as the Assyrian, Turkmen and Arab populations of the city and the opposition of Turkey, which is concerned about the region's potential to break away from Iraq (with possible consequences for its own Kurdish minority). The final boundaries of the autonomous region are set to be decided through a number of referendums which were scheduled to be held before the end of 2007 as stipulated in the Iraqi constitution. The purpose of these referendums are to analyse whether the Arabisation policies launched by the old Iraqi government still exist and to act accordingly. However, the preparations needed for such a referendum to take place have not been made by the Iraqi central government, and the promised referendums have been postponed for up to six months.\n\nIn the wake of the ratification of the Iraqi constitution in October 2005, Iraqi Kurdistan reconstituted itself as a federal region under the new constitutional framework. Kirkuk's status with respect to the federal region should, under that framework, be decided by a simple majority vote in the provinces.\n\nThe Kurdistan Regional Government has inaugurated a movement to distinguish itself from the rest of Iraq, entitled \"Kurdistan – The Other Iraq\", in a bid to attract investors by showing its security and economic progress amidst the Iraq War.\n\nThe Iraqi Kurdistan region, has in 2005, established a sister-state relationship with the US State of Oregon.\n\nOn 26 November 2012, combat between Baghdad and Kurdish-Irbil military units broke out into open clashes and required an urgent security agreement between federal and Kurdish military officials to avert further fighting.\n\nIn 2013, KRG ordered twelve MD 530F helicopters for police and fire-fighting duties.\n\nFrom mid-2013 to mid-2014, the KRG \"built up their own defenses by creating a security belt stretching more than 1,000 km (600 miles) from the Iranian border all the way to Syria – skirting around Mosul, a city of 2 million people, they appear to have no intention of fighting for the ISIS.\" In August 2014, ISIS attacked the Kurds.\n\nOn 13 June 2014, the city of Kirkuk and the surrounding area was seized, without firing a shot, by the Peshmerga and added to Iraqi Kurdistan.\n\nOn 1 July 2014, Massud Barzani announced that \"Iraq's Kurds will hold an independence referendum within months.\" Although Turkey has traditionally been strongly opposed to the notion of a Kurdish state, there are now indications that modern Turkey is ready to recognize an independent Kurdish state outside of Turkey. Hüseyin Çelik, Deputy Chairman of ruling AK-party, is quoted to have said \"If Iraq is divided and it is inevitable, (the Kurdish Regional Government) are our brothers. Unfortunately, the situation in Iraq is not good and it looks like it is going to be divided\".\n\nIn September, a referendum was held regarding Kurdish independence in Iraq. 92% of Iraqi Kurds voted in favor of independence. The referendum was regarded as illegal by the federal government in Baghdad, and on 6 November, Iraq's Supreme Federal Court ruled that no Iraqi province was allowed to secede in order to preserve the unity of Iraq.\n\nOn 14 November, the KRG announced it would respect the Supreme Federal Court's ruling, stating that \"this decision must become a basis for starting an inclusive national dialogue between (Kurdish authorities in) Erbil and Baghdad to resolve all disputes\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20024717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20024717", "title": "Landless People's Movement", "text": "Landless People's Movement\n\nThe Landless People's Movement is an independent social movement in South Africa. It consists of rural people and people living in shack settlements in cities. The Landless People's Movement boycotts parliamentary elections and has a history of conflict with the African National Congress. The Landless People's Movement is affiliated to Via Campesina internationally and its Johannesburg branches to the Poor People's Alliance in South Africa.\n\nOn 24 July 2001 provincial representatives of local landless formations met with regional organisations to unite their grievances and collectively seek change to relieve their struggles. The Landless People's Movement was formed out of this meeting\n\nIts stated aims were to:\nThe movement was initially formed and support by an NGO, the National Land Committee (NLC), but in 2003 it broke with the NLC and has since operated autonomously.\n\nOn 13 November 2003 the movement issued a Memorandum to then President Thabo Mbeki asking \"why is development brought to us through guns and the terror\" and demanding an immediate halt to all evictions on farms and from urban squatter camps. \n\nIn 2008 the Protea South branch in Johannesburg won a landmark court order against the city of Johannesburg. \n\nThe Landless People's Movement has been successful in linking the commonalities between both rural and urban land dispossession.\n\nBranches in Giyani townships and villages in Limpopo province South Africa are as follows.\n\n\nThe Johannesburg Landless Peoples' Movement currently has branches in the following shack settlements:\n\n\nIn April 2004 57 members of the movement were arrested on election day for marching under the banner of 'No Land! No Vote!'. Some of the arrested activists were subject to torture and this was later taken up in court action against the police.\n\nIn September 2007 the Freedom of Expression Institute reported that at a peaceful protest by the Landless People's Movement:\n\n\"SAPS members fired at random towards the protesters, leaving the pavement covered with the blue casings of rubber bullets. Police also deployed a helicopter and water cannon, and we saw at least two officers using live ammunition. One Protea South resident, Mandisa Msewu, was shot in the mouth by a rubber bullet, and several other residents were attended to by paramedics due to police violence.\"\n\nIn February 2009 the movement reported that eight Landless People's Movement activists from Protea South were arrested following a peaceful protest.\n\nThe movement claims to have been subject to severe repression in Johannesburg in 2010, including arrest, arson and murder. Also in 2010 one of the movement's activists, Terrance Mbuleo (33), was murdered by middle class vigilantes in Soweto.\n\nIn September 2008 the Western Cape Anti-Eviction Campaign, together with Abahlali baseMjondolo, the Johannesburg branches of the Landless People's Movement and the Rural Network (Abahlali basePlasini) in KwaZulu-Natal formed the Poor People's Alliance. The poor people's alliance refuses electoral politics under the banner 'No Land! No House! No Vote!'.\n\n"}
{"id": "7718134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7718134", "title": "List of State of California enterprise computing systems", "text": "List of State of California enterprise computing systems\n\nThis is a partial list of State of California enterprise computing systems:\n\nVariant names: ALIRTS<br>\nDepartment: Office of Statewide Health Planning and Development.<br>\nFunction: Tracks licensing information of health care facilities in the State of California. This includes clinics, acute care hospitals, and other in-patent facilities. Does not cover dentists or other private medical practices.<br>\nDetails: none. <br>\nExists as of: 2007.\n\nVariant names: Sometimes referred to as PSI CAD, PSI being the company that designed the system. Northrop Grumman purchased PSI.<br>\nDepartment: Resources Agency, California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection (CDF).<br>\nFunction: Computer-assisted dispatch system manufactured by Northrop Grumman.<br>\nDetails: Each dispatching center has a stand-alone system. Systems are customizable to meet local needs. Replaces a system called CalCAD.<br>\nSummary of stated purpose: To manage on-duty staff and pending requests for service. The system records incidents, resources, and aids in the efficient use of staff. It includes stored geographic information including maps, street centerlines, routing based on centerlines, and addresses.<br>\nExists as of: 2006.\n\nDepartment: Bureau of Criminal Identification and Information, California Department of Justice.<br>\nFunction: Tracks the serial numbers of every firearm owned by government, observed by law enforcement, seized, destroyed, held in evidence, reported stolen, recovered, voluntarily registered, or handled by a firearms dealer (except most long guns).<br>\nDetails: Data are collected from field checks of firearms.<br>\nSummary of stated purpose: Identifies lost or stolen firearms and connects firearms with persons.<br>\nExists as of: 1990 \n\nObsolete California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection DOS-based computer-aided dispatch system replaced by Altaris CAD in 2005. No geographic verification was built in. Uploads data from Ranger Units to statewide CAIRS system for analysis of trends and costs.\n\nDepartment: Resources Agency, California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection (CDF)<br>\nFunction: Tracks statistical information on fires and other requests for service so the data can be analyzed in preventing fires.<br>\nDetails: This is a web-based system provided by a vendor named CompuPro. Rollout was set for Summer 2006.<br>\nSummary of stated purpose: It provides reports usable by all parts of the CDF organization to analyze trends and improve service. The primary purpose was to comply with a regulatory requirement (California Health and Safety Code Section 13110.5) intended to reduce costs and loss of life from fire and other events.<br>\nExists as of: 2006 \n\nDepartment: Employment Development Department (EDD)<br>\nFunction: stores the names, addresses, and Social Security numbers of every new employee in the state.<br>\nDetails: Every employer is required to report the above facts for every new employee to the EDD. Data are uploaded to a similar national system.<br>\nSummary of stated purpose: Used to track employment statistics and to locate persons in arrears on child support payments.<br>\nExists as of: 2008\n\nVariant names: CI&I<br>\nDepartment: Bureau of Criminal Identification and Information, California Department of Justice. <br>\nFunction: Enterprise system that stores records about persons including fingerprints and criminal history information.<br>\nDetails: System is designed to reveal minimal information about a query unless the person making the query asks for more details. Also used to collect and associate innuendo of criminal wrongdoing with persons who have no convictions.<br>\nSummary of stated purpose: Allows law enforcement and criminal justice agencies to review a person's criminal history. Used to check applicants for employment at cities, counties, and special districts for criminal convictions. Used to check the conviction records of individuals who work in jobs with minors. <br>\nExists as of: 1989\n\nVariant names: DL, DL automated record system<br>\nDepartment: Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV)<br>\nFunction: Allows the DMV to manage the issuance and renewal of driver licenses and California Identification Cards. <br>\nDetails: System uses a Series 1 or RS6000 terminal.<br>\nSummary of stated purpose: Manages driver license records to comply with legislated rules.<br>\nExists as of: 2006.\n\nVariant names: MIRCal<br>\nDepartment: Office of Statewide Health Planning and Development.<br>\nFunction: Tracks in-patient hospital and emergency room demographic data for California hospitals.<br>\nDetails: none. <br>\nExists as of: 2007.\n\nDepartment: Resources Agency, Department of Fish and Game (DFG)<br>\nFunction: Records the presence of obstructions to fish passage in about 3,000 coastal streams. <br>\nDetails: Funded by DFG but operated by a public-private partnership.<br>\nSummary of stated purpose: Creates a catalog of obstructions to the path of spawning fish in coastal streams so the obstructions can be removed over time. Feeds planning and development processes in coastal communities so new bridges and roads are fish friendly. This feeds a process to remove obstructions to fish and also loads geographic information systems to map them.<br>\nExists as of: 2006 \n\nDepartment: Clandestine Laboratories Coordinator, Bureau of Narcotic Enforcement, California Department of Justice<br>\nFunction: Evaluates the traffic in precursor chemicals of potential use in making illegal drugs. <br>\nDetails: none.<br>\nSummary of stated purpose: Manages system of permit issuance to businesses handling such chemicals.<br>\nExists as of: 1992 \n\nVariant name: SCPRS<br>\nDepartment: Department of General Services (DoGS)<br>\nFunction: Satisfies legislative requirement to track contracts over $5,000.<br>\nDetails: Does contract tracking for state purchases of $5,000 and up. Tracks and identifies vendors who are offering services to state agencies or have successfully bid on state contracts. Includes some public access functions: extratced spreadsheets show large lists of contracts and reveal the winners.<br>\nSummary of stated purpose: Links potential contractors, and contractors, with buyers from state government agencies. <br>\nExists as of: 2007.\n\nVariant name: SWITRS<br>\nDepartment: California Highway Patrol <br>\nFunction: undetermined.<br>\nDetails: <br>\nSummary of stated purpose: <br>\nExists as of: 2006\n\nDepartment: California Department of Transportation (Caltrans)<br>\nFunction: Tracks a catalog of information about bridges and viaducts on State-maintained roadways.<br>\nDetails: Stores information including bridge number, county, route, bridge name. May store information about planned maintenance, earthquake risk, and earthquake retrofit plans.<br>\nSummary of stated purpose: <br>\nExists as of: 1989 \n\nVariant name: TASAS<br>\nDepartment: Department of Transportation (Caltrans)<br>\nFunction: Collects data on car crashes and allows analysis of them.<br>\nDetails: Includes portions called Accident Data Base (AXDB) and query system called TASAS Selective Accident Retrieval (TSAR).<br>\nSummary of stated purpose: To comply with federal law, which requires statistical analysis of auto accidents in order to reduce the occurrence of collisions.<br>\nExists as of: 2006.\n\nVariant names: VR, VR automated record system<br>\nDepartment: Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV)<br>\nFunction: manages vessel and vehicle registration as required by legislation.<br>\nDetails: System uses a Series 1 or RS6000 terminal. <br>\nSummary of stated purpose: <br>\nExists as of: 2006 \n\n\n"}
{"id": "11802229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11802229", "title": "List of left-wing political parties", "text": "List of left-wing political parties\n\nThe following is a list of left-wing political parties. It includes parties from the centre-left to the far and ultra left.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "308961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=308961", "title": "Milice", "text": "Milice\n\nThe Milice française (French Militia), generally called the Milice (), was a political paramilitary organization created on 30 January 1943 by the Vichy regime (with German aid) to help fight against the French Resistance during World War II. The Milice's formal head was Prime Minister Pierre Laval, although its Chief of operations and \"de facto\" leader was Secretary General Joseph Darnand. It participated in summary executions and assassinations, helping to round up Jews and \"résistants\" in France for deportation. It was the successor to Joseph Darnand's \"Service d'ordre légionnaire\" (SOL) militia. The Milice was the Vichy regime's most extreme manifestation of fascism. Ultimately, Darnand envisaged the Milice as a fascist single party political movement for the French state.\n\nThe Milice frequently used torture to extract information or confessions from those whom they interrogated. The French Resistance considered the Milice more dangerous than the Gestapo and SS because they were native Frenchmen who understood local dialects fluently, had extensive knowledge of the towns and countryside, and knew local people and informants.\n\nEarly Milice volunteers included members of France's pre-war far-right parties (such as the Action Française) and working-class men convinced of the benefits of the Vichy government's politics. In addition to ideology, incentives for joining the Milice included employment, regular pay and rations. (The latter became particularly important as the war continued, and civilian rations dwindled to near-starvation levels.) Some joined because members of their families had been killed or injured in Allied bombing raids or had been threatened, extorted or attacked by French Resistance groups. Still others joined for more mundane reasons: petty criminals were recruited by being told their sentences would be commuted if they joined the organization, and Milice volunteers were exempt from transportation to Germany as forced labour. It is estimated by several historians (including Julian T. Jackson) that the Milice's membership reached 25,000–30,000 by 1944, although official figures are difficult to obtain. The majority of members were not full-time militiamen, but devoted only a few hours per week to their Milice activities. The Milice had a section for full-time members, the Franc-Garde, who were permanently mobilized and lived in barracks.\n\nThe Milice also had youth sections for boys and girls, called the \"Avant-Garde\".\n\nThe chosen emblem for the Milice carried the Greek letter γ (gamma), the symbol of the Aries astrological sign in the Zodiac, ostensibly representing rejuvenation, and replenishment of energy. The color scheme chosen was silver in blue background within a red circle for ordinary \"miliciens\", white in black background for the arm-carrying militants, and white in red background for the active combatants.\n\nTheir march was \"Le Chant des Cohortes\".\n\nMilice troops (known as \"miliciens\") wore a blue uniform jacket and trousers, brown shirt and a wide blue beret. (During active paramilitary-style operations, an Adrian helmet was used.) Its newspaper was \"Combats\" (not to be confused with the underground Resistance newspaper, \"Combat\"). It employed full-time and part-time personnel, and had a youth wing. The Milice's armed forces were officially known as the \"Franc-Garde\". Contemporary photographs show the Milice armed with a variety of weapons captured from Allied forces.\n\nThe Resistance targeted individual \"miliciens\" for assassination, often in public areas such as cafés and streets. On 24 April 1943 they shot and killed Paul de Gassovski, a \"milicien\" in Marseilles. By late November, \"Combat\" reported that 25 \"miliciens\" had been killed and 27 wounded in Resistance attacks.\n\nThe most prominent person killed by the Resistance was Philippe Henriot, the Vichy regime's Minister of Information and Propaganda, who was known as \"the French Goebbels\". He was killed in his apartment in the Ministry of Information on the rue Solferino in the predawn hours of 28 June 1944 by \"résistants\" dressed as \"miliciens.\" His wife, who was in the same room, was spared. The Milice retaliated for this by killing several well-known anti-Nazi politicians and intellectuals (such as Victor Basch) and prewar conservative leader Georges Mandel.\n\nThe Milice initially operated in the former \"Zone libre\" of France under the control of the Vichy regime. In January 1944, the radicalized Milice moved into what had been the \"zone occupée\" of France (including Paris). They established their headquarters in the old Communist Party headquarters at 44 rue Le Peletier and at 61 rue Monceau. (The house was formerly owned by the Menier family, makers of France's best-known chocolates.) The Lycée Louis-Le-Grand was occupied as a barracks, and an officer candidate school was established in the Auteuil synagogue.\n\nPerhaps the largest and best-known operation undertaken by the Milice was the Battle of Glières, its attempt in March 1944 to suppress the Resistance in the \"département\" of Haute-Savoie (in southeastern France, near the Swiss border). The Milice could not overcome the Resistance, and had to call in German troops to complete the operation. On Bastille Day, 14 July 1944, \"miliciens\" suppressed a revolt among the prisoners at Paris' Santé prison.\n\nThe legal standing of the Milice was never clarified by the Vichy government; it operated parallel to (but separate from) the Vichy French police force. The Milice operated outside civilian law, and its actions were not subject to judicial review or control.\n\nIn August 1944, as the tide of war was shifting and fearing he would be held accountable for the operations of the Milice, Marshal Philippe Pétain distanced himself from the organization by writing a harsh letter rebuking Darnand for the organization's excesses. Darnand's response suggested that Pétain ought to have voiced his objections sooner.\n\nHistorians have debated the strength of the organization, but it was probably between 25,000 and 35,000 (including part-time members and non-combatants) by the time of the Allied invasion of Normandy in June 1944. The membership began melting away rapidly thereafter. Following the Liberation of France, members who failed to flee to Germany (where they were impressed into the Charlemagne Division of the Waffen-SS) or elsewhere, generally faced imprisonment for treason, execution following courts-martial or murder by vengeful \"résistants\" and civilians. During a period of unofficial reprisals immediately following on the German retreat, large numbers of \"miliciens\" were executed, either individually or in groups. Milice offices throughout France were ransacked with agents often being brutally beaten and then thrown from office windows, or into rivers before being taken to prison. At Le Grand-Bornand 76 captured members of the Milice were executed by French Forces of the Interior on 24 August 1944.\n\nAn unknown number of \"miliciens\" managed to escape prison or execution, either by going underground or fleeing abroad. A few were later prosecuted. The most notable of these was Paul Touvier, the former commander of the Milice in Lyon. In 1994, he was convicted of ordering the retaliatory execution of seven Jews at Rillieux-la-Pape. He died in prison two years later.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "779427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=779427", "title": "Miranda Devine", "text": "Miranda Devine\n\nMiranda Devine (born 1960s) is an Australian columnist and writer noted for her conservative stance on a range of social and political issues. Her column, formerly printed twice weekly in Fairfax Media newspapers \"The Sydney Morning Herald\" and \"The Sun-Herald\", now appears in the News Limited newspapers \"Daily Telegraph\", \"Sunday Telegraph\", Melbourne's \"Sunday Herald Sun\" and Perth's \"Sunday Times\". She hosted \"The Miranda Devine Show\", a weekly syndicated radio show on Sydney station 2GB. The show ended in 2015. \n\nDevine is the daughter of journalist Frank Devine. She and her two younger sisters spent considerable parts of their youth overseas while their father was working as a foreign correspondent for Australian newspapers and, later, edited various American newspapers. While living in Tokyo, Devine attended an American International School and learned to speak Japanese fluently. A devout Roman Catholic, she completed her high school education at Loreto Kirribilli, a Catholic girls' private school in Sydney. After school, she completed a BSc in mathematics at Macquarie University. She joined the CSIRO in their textile physics division, where she worked for four years. She then completed a one-year graduate program at the Medill School of Journalism, Northwestern University in Chicago. \n\nOn 6 August 2010, \"The Daily Telegraph\" announced that Devine would be returning as a columnist for both \"The Daily Telegraph\" and \"Sunday Telegraph\".\n\nShe describes herself as \"a Catholic and a mother\".\n\nDevine has been accused by media of promoting the white genocide conspiracy theory and described as pivotal in popularising the concept within Australian politics. Referring to white South African refugees as \"oppressed white, Christian, industrious, rugby and cricket-playing Commonwealth cousins\", she has claimed they would \"integrate seamlessly\" with European Australians.\n\nDevine is a friend of fellow conservative columnist Tim Blair, who said of her, \"She's got good antennae. She can read people which is why she accurately predicts election results\". When interviewed for an April 2007 article in \"The Australian\" about hate mail received by female columnists, Devine commented, \"You are contesting ideas and you have to do it in a polarising way. When you write a column, you can't sit on the fence\".\n\nIn their book \"Silencing Dissent\" (Allen & Unwin), Clive Hamilton and Sarah Maddison accuse Devine of belonging to a \"syndicate of right-wing commentators who receive favour from the Howard Government.\"\n\nIn 2011, Devine used the news of Australian federal government minister Penny Wong's decision to parent a child with her female partner as the basis of a column in which she argued that the 2011 riots in England were the result of a \"fatherless society\".\n\nIn 2015, Devine sparked considerable controversy after claiming that \"women abusing welfare\" were the main cause of domestic violence. According to Devine, \"If you want to break the cycle of violence, end the welfare incentive for unsuitable women to keep having children to a string of feckless men\".\n\nIn 2017, she wrote that share bicycle schemes were a terror threat.\n\nIn 2018, Devine advocated for the continuation of coal-fired electricity options; she has repeatedly suggested that climate change is a political conspiracy.\n\n"}
{"id": "48503138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48503138", "title": "Mon National Liberation Army", "text": "Mon National Liberation Army\n\nThe Mon National Liberation Army (; abbreviated MNLA) is a Mon insurgent group in Myanmar (Burma). It is the armed wing of the New Mon State Party (NMSP), and has been fighting government forces since 1949, though under different names. The NMSP signed the Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement (NCA) on 15 October 2015 with several other insurgent groups and the government of Myanmar.\n\nIn September 2016, MNLA fighters began clashing with members of the Karen National Liberation Army (KNLA), the armed wing of the Karen National Union (KNU), in the Tanintharyi Region. Both the NMSP and the KNU were signatories of the NCA at the time of the fighting. A temporary bilateral truce was reached between the two groups on 14 March 2018.\n"}
{"id": "50501441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50501441", "title": "Munawar Humayun Khan", "text": "Munawar Humayun Khan\n\nMunawar Humayun Khan is the Chairperson of SRSP and the wife of a former Pakistani diplomat, Dr. Humayun Khan.\n\nMrs Khan Chairs the Board of Directors of Sarhad Rural Support Programme (SRSP), which is one of Pakistan's largest NGO, she has 15 years of experience working with people at grass roots for empowerment and poverty reduction. She is on the Board of many other not-for-profit organizations including: Pakistan Center for Philanthropy (PCP), Dost - Drug Rehabilitation Center, Ghazi Barotha Taraqiati Idara and the Rural Support Programmes Network (RSPN). She also Chairs the Board of Directors of Agribusiness Support Fund (ASF).\n"}
{"id": "57981408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57981408", "title": "National Institute for Health and Disability Insurance", "text": "National Institute for Health and Disability Insurance\n\nThe National Institute for Health and Disability Insurance (NIHDI) is a so-called federal public body of social security in Belgium. Under the authority of the Belgian federal minister of Social Affairs, it is responsible for administering the country's compulsory national schemes for health insurance and disability benefits, and manages a compensation fund for medical accidents.\n\nThe institute was founded by the law of August 9, 1963 establishing and organizing a scheme for compulsory insurance for medical treatment and benefits, which came into force on January 1, 1964. The law of 1963 has since been replaced by the law of July 14, 1994 regarding the compulsory insurance for medical treatment and benefits coordinated on July 14, 1994.\n\nThe institute's health and disability insurance budget for 2017 amounted to more than 37 billion euros.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13519022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13519022", "title": "Richard Manning", "text": "Richard Manning\n\nRichard \"Dick\" Manning is an environmental author and journalist, with particular interest in the history and future of the American prairie, agriculture and poverty. He writes frequently about trauma and poverty for the National Native Children's Trauma Center based at the University of Montana, where he is a senior research associate. He is the author of eight books, and his articles have been published in \"Harper's Magazine\", \"The New York Times\", \"The Los Angeles Times\", \"Audubon\" and \"The Bloomsbury Review\".\n\nManning worked as a journalist, reporter and editor for more than 30 years, including four years at the \"Missoulian\". In 1995 he was the recipient of a John S. Knight Fellowship from Stanford University. He is a three-time winner of the \"Seattle Times\" C.B. Blethen Award for Investigative Journalism, and has also won the Audubon Society Journalism Award and the inaugural Richard J. Margolis Award in 1992.\n\nHe lives in Lolo, Montana with his wife, Tracy Stone-Manning.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12673498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12673498", "title": "Rosely Roth", "text": "Rosely Roth\n\nRosely Roth (August 21, 1959 in São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil – August 28, 1990 in São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil) is considered one of the pioneers in the history of the LGBT movement of Brazil (known in Portuguese as the \"Movimento Homossexual Brasileiro\"). \n\nBorn of Jewish parents, she attended both Jewish and non-Jewish schools while growing up in her native São Paulo. In 1981 she obtained a degree in Philosophy from the Pontifícia Universidade Católica de São Paulo; and in 1985-1986 she graduated again from the same university with a degree in Anthropology, having dedicated her studies on lesbian life and sexuality in São Paulo. \n\nRoth started her direct participation in the women's movement at the start of 1981 by attending meetings at the \"Grupo Lésbico Feminista\" (1979–1990) and at the \"SOS Mulher\" (1980–1993). Still in 1981, Roth and Míriam Martinho, another pioneer of the Brazilian LGBT movement, founded the \"Grupo Ação Lésbica-Feminista\" - \"GALF\" (1981–1990) in São Paulo. \n\nRoth was involved in many organizations and activities demanding sexual freedom and equal rights for lesbians and all members of the LGBT community during most of her adult life. She was particularly active in bringing visibility to related issues in the local and national media when the LGBT movement was still in its infancy in Brazil. \n\nIn the last phase of Roth's life, she started to suffer from what has been described as deep emotional problems. As a consequence, it is believed that her health condition led her to commit suicide. \n\nThe \"Dia Nacional do Orgulho Lésbico,\" a national day of lesbian pride, celebrated annually throughout Brazil on August 19, since 2003, has been established in her honor.\n\n"}
{"id": "47615485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47615485", "title": "Search engine manipulation effect", "text": "Search engine manipulation effect\n\nThe search engine manipulation effect (SEME) is the change in consumer preferences from manipulations of search results by search engine providers. SEME is one of the largest behavioral effects ever discovered. This includes voting preferences. A 2015 study indicated that such manipulations could shift the voting preferences of undecided voters by 20 percent or more and up to 80 percent in some demographics.\n\nThe study estimated that this could change the outcome of upwards of 25 percent of national elections worldwide.\n\nOn the other hand, Google denies secretly re-ranking search results to manipulate user sentiment, or tweaking ranking specially for elections or political candidates.\n\nAt least three scenarios offer the potential to shape/decide elections. The management of a search engine could pick a candidate and adjust search rankings accordingly. Alternatively, a rogue employee who has sufficient authority and/or hacking skills could surreptitiously adjust the rankings. Finally, since rankings influence preferences even in the absence of overt manipulation, the ability of a candidate to raise his or her ranking via traditional search engine optimization would influence voter preferences. Simple notoriety could substantially increase support for a candidate.\n\nFive experiments were conducted with more than 4,500 participants in two countries. The experiments were randomized (subjects were randomly assigned to groups), controlled (including groups with and without interventions), counterbalanced (critical details, such as names, were presented to half the participants in one order and to half in the opposite order) and double-blind (neither subjects nor anyone who interacted with them knows the hypotheses or group assignments). The results were replicated four times.\n\nIn experiments conducted in the United States, the proportion of people who favored any candidate rose by between 37 and 63 percent after a single search session.\n\nParticipants were randomly assigned to one of three groups in which search rankings favored either Candidate A, Candidate B or neither candidate. Participants were given brief descriptions of each candidate and then asked how much they liked and trusted each candidate and whom they would vote for. Then they were allowed up to 15 minutes to conduct online research on the candidates using a manipulated search engine. Each group had access to the same 30 search results—each linking to real web pages from a past election. Only the ordering of the results differed in the three groups. People could click freely on any result or shift between any of five different results pages.\n\nAfter searching, on all measures, opinions shifted in the direction of the candidate favored in the rankings. Trust, liking and voting preferences all shifted predictably. 36 percent of those who were unaware of the rankings bias shifted toward the highest ranked candidate, along with 45 percent of those who were aware of the bias.\n\nSlightly reducing the bias on the first result page of search results – specifically, by including one search item that favoured the other candidate in the third or fourth position masked the manipulation so that few or even no subjects noticed the bias, while still triggering the preference change.\n\nLater research suggested that search rankings impact virtually all issues on which people are initially undecided around the world. Search results that favour one point of view tip the opinions of those who are undecided on an issue. In another experiment, biased search results shifted people’s opinions about the value of fracking by 33.9 per cent.\n\nA second experiment involved 2,000 eligible, undecided voters throughout India during the 2014 Lok Sabha election. The subjects were familiar with the candidates and were being bombarded with campaign rhetoric. Search rankings could boost the proportion of people favoring any candidate by more than 20 percent and more than 60 percent in some demographic groups.\n\nA UK experiment was conducted with nearly 4,000 people just before the 2015 national elections examined ways to prevent manipulation. Randomizing the rankings or including alerts that identify bias had some suppressive effects.\n\nEuropean regulators accused Google of manipulating its search engine results to favor its own services, even though competitive services would otherwise have ranked higher. As of August 2015, the complaint had not reached resolution, leaving the company facing a possible fine of up to $6 billion and tighter regulation that could limit its ability to compete in Europe. In November 2014 the European Parliament voted 384 to 174 for a symbolic proposal to break up the search giant into two pieces—its monolithic search engine and everything else.\n\nThe case began in 2009 when Foundem, a British online shopping service, filed the first antitrust complaint against Google in Brussels. In 2007, Google had introduced a feature called Universal Search. A search for a particular city address, a stock quote, or a product price returned an answer from one of its own services, such as Google Maps or Google Finance. This saved work by the user. Later tools such as OneBox supplied answers to specific queries in a box at the top of search results. Google integrated profile pages, contact information and customer reviews from Google Plus. That information appeared above links to other websites that offered more comprehensive data, such as Yelp or TripAdvisor.\n\nGoogle executives Larry Page and Marissa Mayer, among others, privately advocated for favoring Google’s own services, even if its algorithms deemed that information less relevant or useful.\n\nGoogle acknowledges adjusting its algorithm 600 times a year, but does not disclose the substance of its changes.\n\nIn April 2015, Hillary Clinton hired Stephanie Hannon from Google to be her chief technology officer. In 2015 Eric Schmidt, chairman of Google's holding company started a company – The Groundwork – for the specific purpose of electing Clinton. Julian Assange, founder of WikiLeaks, called Google her ‘secret weapon’. Researchers estimated that Google could help her win the nomination and could deliver between 2.6 and 10.4 million general election votes to Clinton via SEME. No evidence documents any such effort, although since search results are ephemeral, evidence could only come via a Google whistleblower or an external hacker.\n\nOn June 9, 2016, SourceFed alleged that Google manipulated its searches in favor of Clinton because the recommended searches for her are different than the recommended searches to both Yahoo and Bing and yet the searches for both Donald Trump and Bernie Sanders are identical to both Yahoo and Bing. When \"Hillary Clinton Ind\" was entered in the search bar, Google Autocomplete suggested \"Hillary Clinton Indiana\", while the other vendors suggested \"Hillary Clinton indictment\". Furthermore, SourceFed placed the recommended searches for Clinton on Google Trends and observed that the Google suggestion was searched less than the suggestion from the other vendors.\n\n"}
{"id": "47955040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47955040", "title": "Seventieth anniversary of the United Nations", "text": "Seventieth anniversary of the United Nations\n\nSecretary-General Ban Ki-moon announced the beginning of the 70th anniversary (2015) of the United Nations when he was attending the African Union Summit in Malabo, Guinea to commemorate the past developments including the UN task force achievements and the work for humanity. He has marked it with a name \"UN70\". He also focused on the unification of the international community in order to make the UN more powerful to better handle the problems of the world. It was also observed that on 26 June 1945, the UN Charter was initialised for ratification in San Francisco.\n\nThe United Nations General Assembly has unanimously elected its new president to Mogens Lykketoft who is Denmark’s former parliament speaker for the 70th anniversary session. He took the office in September after replacing Sam Kutesa of Uganda, the former president of UN general assembly.\n\nThe United Nations Academic Impact (UNAI) is given the planning of the celebration related events and special activities which are planned to be held for a period of 16 months. Some of them includes the celebrations of the International day of Peace on 21 September and others.\n\nWorld Environment Day was celebrated in Istanbul on 14 June, though it comes on June 5, as \"International Bicycle Tour\" having more than 10000 participants who rode their bicycles together to mark the event.\n\nOver 2000 Trees Planted on the Slopes of Mount Kilimanjaro in Tanzania as an event to mark environment protection as the prime motto.\n\nUnited Nations Academic Impact (UNAI) invited names from university students across the world and almost 70 student got prizes for winning.\n\nOn 29 June, an exhibition to mark the seventieth anniversary of the United Nations, was organised by Norman Rockwell Museum in Massachusetts, United Nations Foundation and the Department of Public Information. The exhibition had on display the 33 original artworks of Norman Rockwell and other paintings. The name of the exhibition was \"We the Peoples: Norman Rockwell’s United Nations\".\n\nNot only it is the UN's 70th anniversary but also of the end of the Second World War. On 6 May 2015, a concert was organised by the Permanent Mission of the Russian Federation to observe it.\n\nThe theme of the Conference of Speakers of all Inter-Parliamentary Union member parliaments and of non-member parliaments from across the world, was on peace, democracy, and development.\n\nPope Francis and heads of about 150 nations assembled at the United Nations and approved new set of 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) which were finalised after three years intense discussions. They emphasize more social development and environment protection. On September 25, 2015 a resolution named \"Transforming Our World: the 2030 Agenda\" for sustainable Development was adopted which included new global goals with a motto of transforming the world in a better direction. Along with those seventeen goals it has 169 targets to fight inequality along with erasing poverty, and take on the climate change effects over the next fifteen years.\n\nThe UN adopted a landmark text-based negotiations for the pending bill on reforms of the Security Council. The efforts behind are attributed to all the countries and especially to UN General Assembly former President Sam Kutesa who supported the action on the draft decision and took the process one step forward.\n\nThe UN treaty office organised a very crucial treaty event in New York City, which was a special event where Santiago Villalpando, the Chief of the UN Office of Legal Affairs Treaty Section, addressed all the signatories to sign on to or to ratify or accede to multilateral treaties, they had promised earlier. About 560 multilateral treaties were deposited with the UN Secretary-General.\n"}
{"id": "53969533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53969533", "title": "Skattrannsóknarstjóri Ríkisins", "text": "Skattrannsóknarstjóri Ríkisins\n\nThe National Tax Investigation Police (SR) (Icelandic: ), also known as the Directorate of Tax Investigations in Iceland, is one of Iceland’s three intelligence agencies. The SR is responsible for investigating legal cases where suspicions of tax fraud, tax evasion, or other violations of tax law are found within Iceland. The SR is accountable to the Icelandic Minister of Finance, Benedikt Jóhannesson.\n\nThe SR was founded in 1993 with the goal of functioning as a specialized and autonomous intelligence agency focused specifically on the tax system. The director of the SR is appointed by, and responsible only to, the Minister of Finance. While the central SR office is located in Reykjavík, the office still investigates all alleged tax crimes in all of Iceland’s nine tax districts of Reykjavík, Akranes, Ísafjörður, Siglufjörður, Akureyri, Egilsstaðir, Hella, Vestmannaeyjar and Hafnarfjörður.\nThe SR operates under Icelandic regulation and law nos. 361/1995, 50/1988, 45/1987, 113/1990, 145/1994, 144/1990, and 37/1993.\n\nThe SR has 24 employees, most of whom have university degrees in business, economics, or law. In 2006 the SR’s allotted budget was ISK 155m or ~$2.2m USD. The SR submits an annual budget to the Ministry of Finance by February 15 each year. The report includes a report on the SR’ operations and activities as well as a balance sheet for the previous year.\n\nThe main role of the SR is to investigate and inform on the infringement of Icelandic tax laws, and reduce tax evasion. The SR is tasked with three central objectives by the Ministry of Finance.\n\nThere are two objectives of SR investigations:\n\nThe SR is tasked with investigating violations of all Icelandic tax laws levied or enforced by the Directorate of Internal Revenue, and violations of the Accounting Act and Financial Statements Act. Any other activities fall outside the SR’ scope of authority. Once a tax investigation case has concluded, the SR decides whether or not criminal proceedings are initiated. If criminal proceedings are initiated, they may proceed in three manners. The taxpayer is fined an amount deemed necessary by the SR, the SR presents a payment claim before the State Internal Revenue Board, or the case is referred to the Icelandic Police.\nEach year, the SR investigates ~100 tax fraud cases. Tax fraud in Iceland tends to be concentrated in the restaurant and food industries.\n\nWhen a district tax office finds an Icelandic taxpayer in breach of tax law after conducting their general tax control, the SR receives the case from the district tax office. Any case where there is a suspicion of possible tax fraud, it is required by law to be reported to the SR.\nThe SR can also receive cases from state tax collectors, and the police if technical expertise is needed in accounting or fraud cases.\n\nSince its inception, the SR has implemented major changes in how the Icelandic government combats tax crimes. Thanks to the SR’s efforts, approximately ISK 4 billion or ~$58 million USD has been collected as a direct result of SR’s proceedings over the “past several years”.\n\nIn 2015, the SR released a statement that a whistle blower who had offered them data and documents relating to tax evasion by people linked to Iceland requested ISK 150 million (~$1.1 million USD). The information in question was a large leak of sensitive information reportedly showing that The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation (HSBC) had assisted clients worldwide in tax evasion. The SR had initially requested government support to pay for the data, however former Minister of Finance Bjanri Benediktsson later stated that the SR would only pay for the data if the fee was in proportion to the collected tax from the accounts in question. One of the six individuals in the SR’s investigation is an Icelandic passport holder, while the other 5 have other ties to the country.\n"}
{"id": "42878857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42878857", "title": "Spanish Alternative", "text": "Spanish Alternative\n\nSpanish Alternative (, AES) () is a nationwide Spanish Catholic political party, whose ideology is framed within the conservative right-wing. It describes itself as \"social Christian and cross-sectional\". Its Secretary General is the lawyer and businessman Rafael López-Diéguez, former member of the far-right New Force, active formation during the Transition and managed by his father-in-law, the historic leader Blas Piñar, who was named honorary president of AES, a post which he held until his death in January 2014. Although AES doesn't use symbols of Franco's regime, the party has been described as neo-francoist as well as being considered to be inheritor of New Force. It maintains contacts with the party Navarrese and Spanish Right (DNE).\n\nAES holds its program declaration and its public action in four principles: the \"defense of life\" (opposition to any type of abortion), the \"pro-family\", \"Christian roots\" and the \"unity of Spain\". When the party has to place itself on the political spectrum, AES defines itself as a cross-sectional party that is positioned on the right in moral matter and on the left in social and economic matter. Thus, AES considers homosexual adoption to be an attack on the family and is against same-sex marriages and even same-sex civil unions. It has been described as akin to \"fundamentalist Catholicism\".\n\nSpanish Alternative takes a hard line on the Autonomic State by proposing to abolish the autonomous communities. To the party's mind, the State of Autonomies is unviable and unsustainable because it constitutes an economic catastrophe, because it has been the main contributory factor to the present crisis, because it promotes the breach of the national integrity and cohesion in its continuing development and because it entails unequal rights among Spaniards depending on their place of birth or residence. However, AES would keep the provincial privileges of Navarre and the Basque Country.\n\nIn the municipal elections of 2015 the party gained 5 town councillors. 2 in Las Labores and 1 in Ampuero, Bárcena de Pie de Concha and Villanueva de la Condesa.\n"}
{"id": "29553943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29553943", "title": "Teachers Without Borders", "text": "Teachers Without Borders\n\nTeachers Without Borders (\"TWB\") is an international organization launched in 2000, with a mission to connect teachers to information and each other in order to close the education divide and based upon the premise that teachers are community change agents and key catalysts of global development priorities. The organization was founded by Dr. Fred Mednick \n\nTeachers Without Borders received the 2018 Luxembourg Peace Prize for Outstanding Peace Education, recognized for a free Peace Education program involving teachers from regions in conflict, for having embedded peace education into all TWB courses (see below), and its Voice of Teachers Radio Show in Nigeria. \n\nTeachers Without Borders received the Champions of African Education Award (2010) for its use of radio and local educational capacity building to disseminate information about the United Nations Millennium Development Goals. In 2018, TWB's membership has reached 177 countries. Teachers Without Borders membership is free and enables local educators the opportunity to connect with colleagues globally.\n\nTeachers Without Borders also received the Ahmadiyya Muslim Peace Prize for \"outstanding work in the promotion of peace through efforts to convene teachers from regions in conflict, provide unfettered access to courses and networks devoted to teacher professional development, and to ensure that peace education is integrated into all initiatives. The formal announcement can be viewed here.\n\nTeachers Without Borders claims that teachers represent the largest professional community in the world (over 65 million); that teachers are uniquely suited as local leaders to recognize and help address development needs; that professional isolation and inconsequential or missing teacher professional development undermines social change; and that the transformation of pre-service and in-service teacher development can bring about more sustainable, equitable, democratic, and economically stable societies.\n\nTeachers Without Borders' initiatives and courses are offered in various formats and settings: online, in schools, as community workshops, in books and journals, and on the radio. All programs have been conceived and led by Teachers Without Borders' members and partners around the world. Content of all TWB courses and workshop resources are free and governed by the least restrictive Creative Commons license. Initiatives include: education in emergencies, girls' education, peace and human rights education, Bullying, ICT in Education, and Child-Friendly Spaces. as well as several teacher pre-service and in-service professional development opportunities - including a five-course Certificate of Teaching Mastery program. \n\nMost Teachers Without Borders initiatives are accompanied by courses offered independently, at universities such as Johns Hopkins University's School of Education (where TWB's founder is an Assistant Professor), and through the Canvas Network, an online MOOC provider. Those courses include: \"Educating Girls\"; ASAP: Education in Emergencies; Peace and Human Rights; the five course \"Certificate of Teaching Mastery\"; a course on ICTs for educators entitled: \"High-Tech, High-Touch, High-Teach\"; and \"Global Urban Education\".\n\nThe \"Emergency Education Program\" works with teachers on preparedness and planning to avoid crises or lessen their impacts, education amidst emergencies, and in the reconstruction phase. Teachers Without Borders has also helped to launch Parsquake, a consortium of NGOs devoted to earthquake science and safety throughout Persian speaking countries particularly vulnerable and seismically active regions of the world. This program was initiated after the 2008 earthquake in the Sichuan region of China and, in 2011, will engage and support teachers in Haiti. The program also supports emergency relief, reconstruction and recovery efforts in areas hit by natural disasters, such as the 2010 floods in Pakistan. The online MOOC, entitled ASAP: Education in Emergencies, is available without cost. Hirmu 10.\n\nThe Peace Education Initiative helps teachers promote peace in their classrooms and communities. Content of TWB's Peace Program is available without cost. The Peace Education course is available to the public as a MOOC and has been offered for Continuing Education Unites at Johns Hopkins University.\n\nTeachers Without Borders' girls' education programs address four central themes: (1) access (2) education in emergencies (3) public health, and (4) empowerment. The organization addresses these four themes by connecting global educators to NGOs working in the field; offering a free and low-fee course: (Educating Girls) in partnership with Johns Hopkins University and through the Canvas Network; and by promoting a Girls' Quake Science and Safety Initiative - designed in partnership with USGS (United States Geological Survey) to ensure access to earthquake science education for teachers and schools in seismically-vulnerable communities around the world.\n\nTeachers Without Borders' flagship program is the \"Certificate of Teaching Mastery\". It consists of five courses that help teachers improve their professional knowledge, classroom practice, and leadership skills. This program has been deployed throughout Sub-Saharan Africa, as well as in Mexico and Peru\n\nTeachers Without Borders programs and resources have been adopted by teachers and communities worldwide, including: Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Brazil, Burundi, Cameroon, China, Ghana, Haiti, India, Kenya, Mexico, Nigeria, Pakistan, Rwanda, South Africa, Suriname, Turkey, Uganda and the United States of America.\n\n"}
{"id": "25074769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25074769", "title": "Territorial evolution of North America since 1763", "text": "Territorial evolution of North America since 1763\n\nThe 1763 Treaty of Paris ended the major war known by Americans as the French and Indian War and by Canadians as the Seven Years' War / Guerre de Sept Ans, or by French-Canadians, La Guerre de la Conquête. It was signed by Great Britain, France and Spain, with Portugal in agreement. Preferring to keep Guadeloupe, France gave up Canada and all of its claims to territory east of the Mississippi River to Britain. With France out of North America this dramatically changed the European political scene on the continent.\n\nAt first only the imperial powers of Europe had the resources to support and expand settlements in North America. As time went on the colonies became more powerful and sought independence from the Old World. These demands for more autonomy sparked several wars, including the American Revolutionary War (1775–1783) and the Mexican War of Independence (1810–1821). The last major colonial power on the continent, the United Kingdom, granted dominion status to Canada in 1867 and slowly turned over its remaining land to that country over the next 100 years, with the last land transfer being the Dominion of Newfoundland in 1949. Throughout this period, France maintained the small North American territory of Saint Pierre and Miquelon off the coast of the island of Newfoundland.\n\nFrom independence, the United States expanded rapidly to the west, acquiring the massive Louisiana territory in 1803 and fighting a war with Mexico to push west to the Pacific. At the same time, British settlement in Canada increased. US expansion was complicated by the division between \"free\" and \"slave\" states, which led to the Missouri Compromise of 1820. Likewise, Canada faced tensions between settlers, including French and English communities, and the colonial administration that led to the outbreak of civil strife in 1837. Mexico faced constant political tensions between liberals and conservatives, as well as the rebellion of the English-speaking region of Texas, which declared itself the Republic of Texas in 1836. In 1845, Texas joined the United States and in 1867 the United States acquired Alaska from Russia. The last major territorial change occurred when Newfoundland joined Canada in 1949, but there have been a number of small adjustments like the Boundary Treaty of 1970 where the city of Rio Rico, Texas, was ceded to Mexico.\n\n\n\n\n\nBy the Royal Proclamation of 1763, King George III of Great Britain created the Province of Quebec in the St. Lawrence valley, the part of the former French province of Canada that was settled by people of French descent. The Great Lakes basin was barred to European settlement, reserved as exclusive “hunting grounds” for the “several nations or tribes of Indians” under the king's “protection.”\n\nBy the Quebec Act, the territory of the Province of Quebec was expanded to take over part of the Indian Reserve, including much of what is now southern Ontario, Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio, Wisconsin, and parts of Minnesota.\n\nTo ensure their claim on the Pacific coast the Spanish sent Bruno de Hezeta and Francisco Mourelle in the Santiago and Sonora sailed to what is now Vancouver Island and then south along the coast before continuing north as far as modern day Alaska.\n\nIn 1778, Saint Pierre and Miquelon were attacked by a force led by Newfoundland's Governor John Montagu and then population deported by the British as retaliation for French support of the American Revolutionary War. The residents were sent to France and their homes were destroyed.\nIn another attempt to assert Spanish authority over the Pacific coast the Spanish sent Ignatio de Arteaga in La Princesa to what is now Prince of Wales Island and as far north and west as Unalaska.\n\nGreat Britain surrendered East Florida and West Florida to Spain; British inhabitants had 18 months from the date of ratification to leave.\n\nThe 1783 Treaty of Paris formally ended the American Revolutionary War between Great Britain and the United States of America, which had rebelled against British rule. The other combatant nations, France, Spain and the Dutch Republic, had separate agreements, known as the Peace of Paris (1783). The Kingdom of Great Britain recognized the territory south of what is now Canada, east of the Mississippi and north of Florida as American property. Vermont remained independent until 1791. France regained Saint Pierre and Miquelon in 1783 after the Peace of Paris and some residents returned to the islands.\n\nIn 1784, Grigory Ivanovich Shelikhov, who later set up the Russian-Alaska Company that colonized early Alaska, arrived in Three Saints Bay on Kodiak Island with two ships, the \"Three Saints\" and the \"St. Simon\". The indigenous Koniag harassed the Russian party and Shelikhov responded by killing hundreds and taking hostages to enforce the obedience of the rest. Having established his authority on Kodiak Island, Shelikhov founded the second permanent Russian settlement in Alaska (after Unalaska) on the island's Three Saints Bay.\n\nDelegates from the North Carolina counties of Washington, Sullivan, Spencer (now Hawkins) and Greene — all in present-day Tennessee — convened in the town of Jonesborough and declared the lands the State of Frankland, independent of North Carolina. A constitution modeled on that of North Carolina was adopted with few changes, and the state name was changed to \"Franklin\". By 1790, the state government had collapsed entirely and the territory was again firmly under the control of North Carolina.\n\nIn 1789, in attempt to assert its sovereignty over the Pacific coast the Spanish seized British ships in Nootka Sound on Vancouver Island. This action sparked an international incident that resulted in the Nootka Convention which was signed on October 28, 1790. The conventions stated that the English had the right to found settlements anywhere on the Pacific claimed by Spain but never settled by Spain. As a result claims of sovereignty on the Pacific were determined by settlement or feet on the ground as opposed to claims based on prior discovery.\n\nThe Vermont Republic, which included land claimed by New York and New Hampshire and, while unrecognized by the United States, was a \"de facto\" independent country, was admitted to the US as the 14th state, Vermont.\n\nThe Province of Quebec was divided into two parts, Lower Canada and Upper Canada. The Province of Upper Canada (French: \"province du Haut-Canada\") was a British colony located in what is now the southern portion of the Province of Ontario in Canada. Upper Canada officially existed from 26 December 1791 to 10 February 1841. Its name reflected its position higher up the river or closer to the headwaters of the St. Lawrence River than that of Lower Canada, present-day southern Quebec. The division was effected so that Loyalist American settlers and British immigrants in Upper Canada could have English laws and institutions, and the French-speaking population of Lower Canada could maintain French civil law and the Catholic religion.\n\nThe US federal government sold the Erie Triangle to Pennsylvania.\nThe western counties of Virginia beyond the Appalachian Mountains were split off and admitted to the US as the 15th state, Kentucky.\n\nSaint Pierre and Miquelon saw action during the French Revolution when France had declared war on the United Kingdom as part of the War of the First Coalition. This led to a British attack on the islands under Captain William Affleck of Halifax who captured the islands in May 1793.\n\nThe Southwest Territory was admitted to the US as the 16th state, Tennessee.\n\nPinckney's Treaty, also known as the Treaty of San Lorenzo, settled the northern border of West Florida as the 31st parallel.\n\nSitka was originally settled by the native Tlingit people. Old Sitka was founded in 1799 by Alexandr Baranov, the governor of Russian America. Baranov arrived under the auspices of the Russian-American Company, a \"semi-official\" colonial trading company chartered by Tsar Paul I.\n\nIndiana Territory was formed from the western portion of Northwest Territory. It corresponded to present-day Illinois, Indiana, northeastern Minnesota, and Wisconsin, as well as the western half of the Lower Peninsula of Michigan and all but the eastern tip of the Upper Peninsula. Northwest Territory was left with only most of Ohio and the rest of Michigan.\n\nIn the secretly negotiated Third Treaty of San Ildefonso (formally titled the Preliminary and Secret Treaty between the French Republic and His Catholic Majesty the King of Spain, Concerning the Aggrandizement of His Royal Highness the Infant Duke of Parma in Italy and the Retrocession of Louisiana), Spain returned the colonial territory of Louisiana to France.\n\nThe Kingdom of Great Britain or Great Britain changed its name to United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland or United Kingdom on January 1, 1801 due to the Act of Union 1800.\n\nAmiens Treaty of 1802 specified that Saint Pierre and Miquelon would again be returned to France. Although it took until 1816 for the British to honor the Treaty and allow the French to return.\n\nThe southeastern portion of Northwest Territory was admitted to the US as the 17th state, Ohio. The remainder of Northwest Territory was transferred to Indiana Territory.\n\nThe Louisiana Purchase was made, expanding the United States west of the Mississippi River. There was a dispute with West Florida over how much land east of the Mississippi River it included. The purchase extended slightly north of the modern borders, as it was defined only as the watershed of the Mississippi River. The purchase consisted of the whole of present-day Arkansas, Kansas, Iowa, Missouri, Nebraska, and Oklahoma, and portions of Colorado, Louisiana, Minnesota, Montana, New Mexico, North Dakota, South Dakota, Texas and Wyoming. It also included the southernmost portions of the present-day Canadian provinces of Alberta, Manitoba, and Saskatchewan. The cost was 60 million francs ($11,250,000) plus cancellation of debts worth 18 million francs ($3,750,000). Including interest, the U.S. finally paid $23,213,568 (US$ in 2018) for the Louisiana territory.\n\nThe North West Company organized an overland expedition from Montreal to James Bay and a second expedition by sea. In September 1803, the overland party met the company's ship at Charlton Island in what is now Nunavut. There, they lay claim to the territory that drained into the Arctic in the name of the North West Company.\n\nMichigan Territory was split from Indiana Territory, including the whole of the lower peninsula of present-day Michigan but only that eastern tip of the upper peninsula which was held by the Northwest Territory after Indiana Territory had been split from it.\nThe District of Louisiana was organized as Louisiana Territory.\n\nIllinois Territory was split from Indiana Territory. Illinois Territory included present-day Illinois, northeastern Minnesota, and Wisconsin. Indiana Territory included the present-day borders of Indiana, with its western and eastern borders continuing northward; thus, it also included the central portion of the upper peninsula of Michigan, as well as Door Peninsula of present-day Wisconsin.\nThe short-lived Republic of West Florida declared its independence from Spain.\nUS President James Madison proclaimed the annexation of the Baton Rouge and Mobile Districts of West Florida, declaring them part of the Louisiana Purchase. The US Army occupied the capital, St. Francisville, on December 6 and Baton Rouge on December 10, bringing an end to the Republic of West Florida after 90 days.\n\nThe southern portion of Indiana Territory was admitted as the 19th state, Indiana. The remainder became unorganized.\n\nAlabama Territory was split from Mississippi Territory; both correspond to their present-day counterparts.\nMississippi Territory was admitted to the US as the 20th state, Mississippi.\n\nThe Treaty of 1818 established the 49th parallel north west of the Lake of the Woods as the border with British-held lands, and Oregon Country was established as a shared land between the United States and United Kingdom. Oregon Country consisted of most of present-day Idaho and Oregon, all of Washington, and a portion of Montana, as well as the southern part of the unorganized British territory which became British Columbia. The treaty transferred the Red River Basin to the United States, consisting of northwestern Minnesota, northeastern North Dakota, and the northeastern tip of South Dakota.\n\nThe southern portion of Illinois Territory was admitted as the 21st state, Illinois. The remainder was reassigned to Michigan Territory. The unorganized lands which had been a part of Indiana Territory prior to the admission of Indiana as a state were also assigned to Michigan Territory.\n\nThe Adams-Onís Treaty or Transcontinental Treaty was signed in Washington, establishing a defined border between the United States and New Spain. The treaty ceded Spain's claims to Oregon Country to the United States and American claims to Texas to Spain; moved portions of present-day Colorado, Oklahoma, and Wyoming, and all of New Mexico and Texas, to New Spain; and all of Spanish Florida as well as a small portion of modern day Colorado to the United States. The new borders intruded on Arkansaw Territory's Miller County, created on April 1, 1820, which dipped below the Red River and into land ceded to Spain. However, the remoteness of the region caused no serious conflict with Spain.\n\nThe southern part of Missouri Territory was organized as Arkansaw Territory, consisting of present-day Arkansas as well as part of Oklahoma. It was not officially spelled Arkansas until later.\n\nAlabama Territory was admitted to the US as the 22nd state, Alabama.\n\nThe Maine District of Massachusetts was split off and admitted to the US as the 23rd state, Maine, as part of the Missouri Compromise.\n\nIn 1821, the North West Company of Montreal and the Hudson's Bay Company merged, with a combined territory that was further extended by a license to the watershed of the Arctic Ocean on the north and the Pacific Ocean on the west.\n\nThe southeastern corner of Missouri Territory was admitted to the US as the 24th state, Missouri. The remainder became unorganized. Missouri did not include its northwestern triangle at this point, that being added later in the Platte Purchase.\n\nThe 1824 Constitution of Mexico was enacted, creating the United Mexican States and replacing the Mexican Empire, which had collapsed on March 19, 1823. The constitution organized the country into 19 states and four territories. In the aftermath of the end of the empire, Central American regions mostly voted not to stay a part of Mexico, with Chiapas, formerly part of Guatemala, being the only area that favored remaining in Mexico. However, rebels in one part of Chiapas, Soconusco, proclaimed its separation from Mexico on July 24, 1824, and it was formally annexed by the Federal Republic of Central America on August 18, 1824.\n\nArkansas Territory was shrunk, the western portion becoming unorganized.\n\nThe Treaty of Saint Petersburg of 1825, also known as the Anglo-Russian Convention of 1825, defined the boundaries between Russian America and British claims and possessions in the Pacific Northwest of North America at 54 degrees 40 minutes north latitude.\n\nArkansas Territory was shrunk further, attaining the present-day borders of Arkansas, with the remainder again becoming unorganized, excepting the land it still claimed as Miller County.\n\nThe state of Sonora y Sinaloa was split into two states, Sinaloa and Sonora.\n\nThe territory of Aguascalientes was split from the state of Zacatecas.\nA large portion of unorganized land was added to Michigan Territory, corresponding to present-day Iowa, western Minnesota, and eastern North Dakota and South Dakota.\n\nArkansas Territory was admitted to the US as the 25th state, Arkansas. It continued to claim Miller County, with increasing irrelevance.\n\nDue to disapproval of the government of Antonio López de Santa Anna, the Tejas region of the state of Coahuila y Tejas declared independence. The remainder was renamed simply Coahuila. The Treaties of Velasco signified the end of the Texas Revolution on May 14, 1836, creating the Republic of Texas.\n\nWisconsin Territory was split off from Michigan Territory, consisting of present-day Wisconsin, Minnesota, Iowa, and eastern North and South Dakota. As an inducement to give up its claim over the Toledo Strip to Ohio, the whole of the present-day upper peninsula was assigned to Michigan Territory, giving it the present-day borders of Michigan.\n\nMichigan Territory was admitted to the US as the 26th state, Michigan.\n\nThe Platte Purchase added a small area of land to Missouri, giving it its present-day boundaries.\n\nIowa Territory was split off from Wisconsin Territory, consisting of present-day Iowa, western Minnesota, and eastern North Dakota and South Dakota, leaving Wisconsin Territory with northeastern Minnesota and Wisconsin.\n\nVoicing the same concerns as Texas, the states of Coahuila, Nuevo León, and Tamaulipas declared independence from Mexico as the Republic of the Rio Grande; since the border of Texas was never conclusively decided, they claim a northern border of the Nueces River, while Texas claims a southern border of the Rio Grande. The rebellion lasted until November 6, 1840. The nation was never fully established, and only existed in the minds of a few.\n\nThe Province of Canada or the United Province of Canada was created by combining Lower Canada and Upper Canada. It was a in North America from 1841 to 1867. Its formation reflected recommendations made by John Lambton, 1st Earl of Durham in the Report on the Affairs of British North America following the Rebellions of 1837. The Province of Canada ceased to exist at Canadian Confederation on July 1, 1867, when it was redivided into the modern Canadian provinces of Ontario and Quebec.\n\nThe Russians were forced to sell Fort Ross due to its economic failure. A private investor, John Sutter, agreed to pay $30,000 (US$ in 2018) over a three-year period.\n\nThe district of Soconusco rejoined Mexico as part of the state of Chiapas.\n\nThe Webster-Ashburton Treaty settled the border between the United States and lands held by the United Kingdom east of the Rocky Mountains, ending the disputes over the northern border of the state of Maine and northeastern border of Wisconsin Territory, which today resides in present day Minnesota.\nFlorida Territory was admitted to the US as the 27th state, Florida.\nThe Republic of Texas was admitted to the US as the 28th state, Texas. The United States Congress passed the joint resolution of annexation on March 1, 1845, but Texas did not agree to join the union for some time after. Although the annexation resolution avoided specifying Texas's boundaries, the U.S. inherited Texas's unenforced claims to South Texas, West Texas, over half of New Mexico, a third of Colorado, and small parts of Oklahoma, Kansas and Wyoming. With Texas joining the union, Arkansas finally gave up its claim on Miller County.\n\nThe state of Yucatán declares independence, for the same reasons as the Republic of Texas and Republic of the Rio Grande, forming the Republic of Yucatán.\nThe California Republic, also called the Bear Flag Republic, was proclaimed by settlers in Sonoma in the then-Mexican province of California. Declared during the Mexican–American War, the republic lasted less than a month.\nThe Oregon Treaty established the 49th parallel west of the Lake of the Woods as the continental border (so it did not include Vancouver Island) with the lands held by the United Kingdom. The sharing of Oregon Country ended, and the American portion becomes unorganized territory.\n\nThe southeast portion of Iowa Territory was admitted to the US as the 29th state, Iowa. The remainder became unorganized.\n\nThe Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo ended the Mexican–American War. Mexico ceded the Texas-claimed areas as well as a large area of land consisting of all of present-day California, Nevada, and Utah, most of Arizona, and portions of Colorado, New Mexico, and Wyoming.\n\nThe Republic of Yucatán rejoined Mexico after the Caste War of Yucatán forced them to seek outside help.\n\nThe southeastern portion of Wisconsin Territory was admitted to the US as the 30th state, Wisconsin. The remainder became unorganized.\n\nOregon Territory was organized, including present-day Idaho, northwestern Montana, Oregon, Washington, and western Wyoming.\n\nColony of Vancouver Island is formed as a British crown colony.\nMinnesota Territory was organized, consisting of present-day Minnesota, and eastern portions of North Dakota and South Dakota.\n\nThe Compromise of 1850 divided the Mexican Cession and land claimed by Texas but ceded to the federal government in exchange for taking on its debts. The western portion was admitted to the US as the 31st state, California, most of the rest was organized as Utah Territory and New Mexico Territory, and a small portion became unorganized land. New Mexico Territory consisted of most of present-day Arizona and New Mexico, as well as a southern portion of Colorado and the southern tip of Nevada. Utah Territory consisted of present-day Utah, most of Nevada, and portions of Colorado and Wyoming.\n\nWashington Territory was split from Oregon Territory, consisting of present-day Washington, northern Idaho, and the western tip of Montana, leaving Oregon Territory with all of Oregon, southern Idaho and a portion of Wyoming.\n\nThe Gadsden Purchase added some land to New Mexico Territory, corresponding to the southernmost areas of present-day Arizona and New Mexico.\n\nKansas Territory and Nebraska Territory were organized; the remaining unorganized land colloquially became known as Indian Territory. Kansas Territory consisted of present-day Kansas and eastern Colorado. Nebraska Territory consisted of present-day Nebraska, and parts of Colorado, Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, and Wyoming. Indian Territory corresponds to eastern Oklahoma.\n\nA peculiarity appeared at this time, when a small strip of land north of Texas was not officially assigned by any state or territory; this came to be called the Neutral Strip or \"No Man's Land\", which corresponds to the present-day panhandle of Oklahoma.\n\nThe 1857 Constitution of Mexico was adopted, reorganizing some states. Nuevo León is merged into Coahuila; Aguascalientes, Colima, and Tlaxcala all had their status changed from territory to state; and the state of Guerrero was created from portions of México and Puebla.\n\nThe Colony of British Columbia was a crown colony in British North America from 1858 until 1871.\n\nThe eastern portion of Minnesota Territory was admitted to the US as the 32nd state, Minnesota. The remainder became unorganized.\n\nThe western portion of Oregon Territory was admitted to the US as the 33rd state, Oregon. The remainder was assigned to Washington Territory.\nA boundary commission was set up to delineate the border between Vancouver Island and the Washington State coast. The commission could not come to agreement on where the middle of the Strait was so in 1859 things came to a head during the bloodless Pig War.\n\nThe eastern portion of Kansas Territory was admitted as the 34th state, Kansas. The western portion was added to Colorado Territory on February 28, 1861, but for the month between statehood for Kansas and the formation of Colorado Territory, it appears to have had no official status.\n\nThe Confederate States of America (CSA) was formed. The Southern states seceded at different dates and joined the CSA at different dates; to simplify the map, only the final form of the CSA is shown here. There were rebel governments as well as Union governments in Kentucky and Missouri, and the CSA had full control over Indian Territory. To view a detailed animated map depicting the various state secessions see .\nColorado Territory was organized, with land from Utah, New Mexico, and Nebraska Territories, as well as the land left over from Kansas Territory; it corresponded already to present-day Colorado. Also, the eastern tip of Washington Territory was transferred to Nebraska Territory.\n\nDue to its nature as a mining and grazing area, land started to be added to Nevada Territory to accommodate these activities. Its eastern border was moved eastward from the 39th meridian west from Washington, to the 38th meridian west from Washington, transferring the land from Utah Territory.\n\nThe Mexican state of Campeche was split from Yucatán.\n\nThe Union created its own Arizona Territory, splitting it off from New Mexico Territory, making both territories correspond to their present-day states, except for Arizona Territory including the southern tip of present-day Nevada.\n\nIdaho Territory was created from portions of Washington, Dakota, and Nebraska Territories, consisting of present-day Idaho, Montana, and most of Wyoming. Nebraska and Washington Territories were left corresponding to their present-day counterparts.\n\nSeveral counties of northwestern Virginia who did not want to be part of the Confederacy split off and were admitted to the US as the 35th state, West Virginia.\n\nThe Mexican state of Nuevo León was re-split from Coahuila.\n\nMontana Territory was split from Idaho Territory, which also had some land transferred to Dakota Territory. Montana Territory corresponded to present-day Montana, Idaho Territory consisted of Idaho and western Wyoming, and Dakota Territory included both North and South Dakota, and most of Wyoming.\n\nNevada Territory was admitted to the US as the 36th state, Nevada; it was a bit smaller than it is today, lacking area in both the east and south.\n\nThe Confederate States of America surrendered. The process of Reconstruction and readmission to the union would take several years; to simplify the map, they are shown as already readmitted. To view a detailed animated map depicting the various state readmission during Reconstruction see .\n\nColony of Vancouver Island and Colony of British Columbia merge to form United Colonies of Vancouver Island and British Columbia\n\nNevada's eastern border was moved from the 38th meridian west from Washington, to the 37th meridian west from Washington, transferring land to it from Utah Territory. Also, the northwestern corner of Arizona Territory was transferred to the state of Nevada, giving it its present-day borders.\n\nNebraska Territory was admitted to the US as the 37th state, Nebraska.\n\nCanada was formed from three provinces of British North America: the Province of Canada, which was split into the provinces of Ontario and Quebec, and the colonies of New Brunswick and Nova Scotia.\n\nAt this time, though, Canada did not become independent according to the modern meaning of the word. The Statute of Westminster 1931 made Canada much closer to being independent, but not completely.\n\nThe United States purchased Alaska from Russia; it was designated the Department of Alaska, and corresponds, except for a boundary dispute, to present-day Alaska. The United States Senate approved the purchase of Alaska from Russia for $7,200,000 (US$ in 2018) on April 9, 1867.\n\nWyoming Territory was formed from portions of Dakota, Idaho, and Utah Territories, corresponding to the present-day borders of Wyoming.\nIdaho Territory then corresponds to present day Idaho, and Utah Territory to present-day Utah.\n\nThe Mexican state of Hidalgo was split from the state of México.\n\nThe Mexican state of Morelos was split from the state of México.\n\nThe United Kingdom ceded most of its remaining land in North America to Canada, with Rupert's Land and the North-Western Territory becoming the North-West Territories. The Rupert's Land Act 1868 transferred the region to Canada as of 1869, but it was only consummated in 1870 when £300,000 were paid to the Hudson's Bay Company. At this time, the Manitoba Act took effect, and a small square of the newly acquired region surrounding the city of Winnipeg was made the province of Manitoba.\nUnlike what this map shows, the actual border between Newfoundland & Quebec is still unknown. Mapmakers have mostly made their own guesses until 1927, pretending that the border was more known than it really was. The problem didn't stop in 1927 (see 1927).\n\nThe British colony of British Columbia joined Canada as the sixth province. British Columbia joined the Canadian confederation following The Great Confederation Debates in the spring of 1870 and the Confederation Negotiations of the following summer and winter.\n\nThe San Juan Islands were awarded to the US, formally ending the Pig War with Britain.\n\nThe British colony of Prince Edward Island joined Canada as the seventh province by an Act of Parliament (and, as part of the terms of union, was guaranteed a ferry link, a term which was deleted upon completion of the Confederation Bridge in 1997).\n\nThe borders of Ontario were provisionally expanded north and west. When the Province of Canada was formed, its borders were not entirely clear, and Ontario claimed to eventually reach all the way to the Rocky Mountains and Arctic Ocean. With Canada's acquisition of Rupert's Land, Ontario was interested in clearly defining its borders, especially since some of the new areas it was interested in were rapidly growing. After the federal government asked Ontario to pay for construction in the new disputed area, the province asked for an elaboration on its limits, and its boundary was moved north to the 51st parallel north.\n\nThe District of Keewatin was created by the passage of the \"Keewatin Act\" on April 12, 1876 in a central separate strip from the North-West Territories, in order to provide government for the growing area north of Manitoba and west of Ontario.\n\nColorado Territory was admitted to the US as the 38th state, Colorado.\nArenas Key is claimed for the United States under the Guano Islands Act\n\nThe United Kingdom ceded its Arctic Islands to Canada, and they were made part of the North-West Territories.\nThe Western Triangle Islands are claimed for the United States under the Guano Islands Act.\n\nManitoba's borders were expanded to a larger \"postage stamp province\" taking land easterly from the District of Keewatin to the western boundary of Ontario. Since the province's eastern border was defined as the \"western boundary of Ontario\", the exact definition of which was still unclear, Ontario disputed a portion of the new region.\n\nThe part of Dakota Territory south of 43° north and north of the Keya Paha and Niobrara Rivers was transferred to Nebraska.\nThe Islands of Perez Chica and Pajora of the Alacrene Islands in the bay of Campeche are claimed for the United States under the Guano Islands Act.\n\nThe Mexican territory of Tepic was split from the state of Jalisco.\n\nThe southwestern border of the District of Keewatin was adjusted to conform to the boundaries of the new provisional districts of the North-West Territories created in 1882, returning some land to the North-West Territories. The provisional districts were the District of Alberta, the District of Athabasca, District of Assiniboia and the District of Saskatchewan, which all remained administrative areas of the North-West Territories, unlike the District of Keewatin.\n\nDakota Territory was split in two, and it was admitted to the US as the 39th state, North Dakota, and 40th state, South Dakota.\n\nMontana Territory was admitted to the US as the 41st state, Montana.\nWashington Territory was admitted to the US as the 42nd state, Washington.\nThe dispute between Manitoba and Ontario ended as Ontario's borders were finalized in accordance with the Canada (Ontario Boundary) Act, 1889, which extended the province west to the Lake of the Woods and north to the Albany River.\n\nOklahoma Territory was organized from the western portion of Indian Territory, and included the Neutral Strip, corresponding to the western half of present-day Oklahoma.\nIdaho Territory was admitted to the US as the 43rd state, Idaho.\nWyoming Territory was admitted to the US as the 44th state, Wyoming.\nThe American claims over the Western Triangle, Areaas, Perez, Chica, Pajoras, and Arenas Keys are all waived by the American government in favor of Mexico.\n\nKeewatin covered the portion of the North-West Territories north of Manitoba on the mainland, and all islands within Hudson, James, and Ungava Bays. The portion between the District of Keewatin, Ontario, and Hudson Bay was not in a district, and was assigned to the District of Keewatin by an Order of Council. Four additional provisional districts of the North-West Territories were formed, the District of Yukon, the District of Ungava, the District of Mackenzie, and the District of Franklin.\n\nUtah Territory was admitted to the US as the 45th state, Utah.\n\nA Supreme Court ruling officially assigns Greer County to Oklahoma Territory.\nThe borders of the District of Keewatin were adjusted. Southampton Island, Coats Island, Mansel Island, Akimiski Island, and other islands were transferred to Keewatin. \n\nYukon Territory was created from the District of Yukon in the northwestern part of the North-West Territories, and the Quebec Boundary Extension Act, 1898 expanded the borders of Quebec north to the Eastmain River.\n\nThe eastern border of Yukon Territory was adjusted to the eastern edge of the Peel River watershed, and also to include some more islands.\n\nThe Mexican territory of Quintana Roo was split from the state of Yucatán.\n\nThe Alaska Boundary Dispute was a territorial dispute between the United States and Canada (then a British Dominion with its foreign affairs controlled from London), and at a subnational level between Alaska on the US side and British Columbia and the Yukon on the Canadian side. It was resolved by arbitration in 1903, generally favoring the American claim.\n\nThe provinces of Alberta and Saskatchewan were created from the North-West Territories. Saskatchewan's western border and Alberta's eastern border run concurrent with the 4th meridian or the 110°W longitude. Saskatchewan's eastern border is not a meridian, but instead follows a staircase-shaped Dominion Land Survey range line. Alberta's southern and northern borders are the same as Saskatchewan's: the southern border is the Canada–United States border or the 49th parallel and the northern border is the 60th parallel. Alberta's western border runs along peaks of the Rocky Mountain ridge and then extends north to the 60th parallel.\nThe District of Keewatin became an administrative unit of the Northwest Territories.\n\nIn 1906, the American Rio Grande Land and Irrigation Company performed an unauthorized diversion of the Rio Grande, which moved a tract of land, including the American village of Rio Rico, south of the river. Since the 1845 Border Treaty all land south of the Rio Grande was Mexican. Mexican authorities unknowingly assumed control of the area, which became known as the Horcón Tract.\n\nThe Dominion of Newfoundland was a British dominion from 1907 (before which the territory had the status of a British colony, self-governing from 1855) to 1949. The Dominion of Newfoundland was situated in northeastern North America along the Atlantic coast and comprised the island of Newfoundland and Labrador on the mainland.\n\nNewfoundland never became independent according to the modern meaning of the word. The Statute of Westminster 1931 would have made Newfoundland much closer to being independent, but not completely. However, the government of Newfoundland did not ratify it, and furthermore, abolished itself in 1934 because of bankruptcy.\n\nOklahoma Territory and Indian Territory were combined and admitted to the US as the 46th state, Oklahoma.\n\nNew Mexico Territory was admitted to the US as the 47th state, New Mexico.\nArizona Territory was admitted to the US as the 48th state, Arizona.\n\nManitoba, Ontario, and Quebec were all expanded into their present-day boundaries. The Northwest Territories is now only situated north of the 60th parallel (except Hudson Bay and James Bay islands) with three districts, Keewatin, Mackenzie and Franklin.\n\nWith the promulgation of the 1917 Constitution of Mexico, the territory of Tepic had its name and status changed to the state of Nayarit.\n\nThe dispute over a square mile between Delaware and Pennsylvania, The Wedge, is finally resolved in favor of Delaware.\n\nA decision of the Judicial Committee of the British Privy Council of 1927 decided the issue of the border between the Dominion of Newfoundland and Canada in favour of Newfoundland. The issue had been the precise boundary between the Canadian province of Quebec and Labrador, part of Newfoundland. The boundary ruling clarified that a large area of the disputed land belonged to Newfoundland, not to Canada.\nMaps prior to 1927 wildly disagreed on the actual position of the border, instead of agreeing upon marking the area as being disputed. Maps after 1927 tended to agree with the decision, but due to protests, some mapmakers in Quebec still disagreed. In the 60's, logos of the two biggest political parties of Quebec (PLQ & UN) both included the shape of the province as including \"all\" of Labrador. Disagreements persist even today (to a lesser extent), as Quebec insists on including the rest of the gulf's basin in its maps, separated with a dotted line saying \"1927 border, non-final\". Newfoundland complains in 2014, even though older electoral maps showed the same.\n\nNorway asserted its claim of sovereignty over the Sverdrup Islands. The islands are named after Norwegian explorer Otto Sverdrup, who explored and mapped them from 1898 to 1902 with the vessel \"Fram\", although some were previously inhabited by Inuit people. Sverdrup claimed the islands for Norway, but the Norwegian government showed no interest in pursuing the claim until 1928. At that point, the Norwegian government raised the claim, primarily to use the islands as bargaining chips in negotiations with the United Kingdom over the status of the Arctic island Jan Mayen and the Antarctic Bouvet Island.\n\nSverdrup Islands are ceded to Canada by Norway, in exchange for British recognition of Norway's sovereignty over Jan Mayen.\n\nThe Mexican Baja California Territory was split into North Territory of Baja California and South Territory of Baja California.\nStatute of Westminster 1931 allows dominions to become independent. Dominion of Canada decides to become almost independent, whereas Newfoundland does not sign (see 1934).\n\nThe Dominion of Newfoundland, because of financial difficulties, was obliged to give up its self-governing status and the Commission of Government took its place.\nAir Force Island, Prince Charles Island, and Foley Island are discovered and added to Northwest Territories.\n\nThe Dominion of Newfoundland and its dependency of Labrador joined Canada as the tenth province, named Newfoundland as proclaimed by the British North America Act 1949.\n\nThe \"North Territory of Baja California\" changed its status and became the state of Baja California.\n\nAlaska Territory was admitted to the US as the 49th state, Alaska.\n\nThe city of Rio Rico, Texas, was ceded to Mexico in the Boundary Treaty of 1970. The handover officially took place in 1977 and the city was added to the Mexican state of Tamaulipas.\n\nThe territory of Quintana Roo changed into a state status. The \"South Territory of Baja California\" changed its status and became the state of Baja California Sur, giving Mexico its present-day configuration.\n\nThe Canadian territory of Nunavut was created from the Northwest Territories. The provisional districts are no longer administrative areas of the Northwest Territories.\n\n"}
{"id": "1389422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1389422", "title": "The Citizen (South Africa)", "text": "The Citizen (South Africa)\n\nThe Citizen is a tabloid-style newspaper distributed nationally in South Africa. While its core readership is mainly in Gauteng, it also distributes to surrounding provinces such as Mpumalanga, Limpopo and the North West. In 1998, \"The Citizen\" was acquired by CTP/Caxton. Its core readership is black middle-class men.\n\nThe paper was founded in 1976 during the apartheid era by Louis Luyt, at which time it was the only major English-language newspaper favourable to the ruling National Party. In 1978, during the Muldergate Scandal, it was revealed that the money to establish and finance the newspaper had come from a secret slush fund of the Department of Information, and ultimately from the Department of Defence.\n\nIn 1998 the paper was bought by Caxton and CTP Publishers and Printers Limited, one of the largest publishers and printers in South Africa. The company is involved in various fields of publishing and printing such as newspapers, magazines, commercial print, book printing, stationery, packaging and labels, as well as manufacturing ink for web presses.\n\nIn 2012, Eureka Zandberg took over from Greg Stewart as the publisher of \"The Citizen\". Along with Editor Martin Williams, she brought in renowned design guru Dr. Mario Garcia to give the newspaper a complete revamp. In Dr. Garcia's words, \"In South Africa, The Citizen decided to face those challenges and seize the opportunities, while sending a message to its devoted readers: \"you have changed, and so have we\".\" The new edition hit the streets on 1 August 2013.\n\nZandberg told South African media blogsite GrubStreet that while \"The Citizen\" had had makeovers before, it was never to the extent of this one: \"If you put \"The Citizen\" next to other papers, it felt tired. We thought that we owed our readers a face lift, a better product and a better experience.\"\n\nIn addition to a revamp of the physical print edition, \"The Citizen\"s digital evolution is also underway. The same day the new paper's look was revealed, the website went live, with a fresh look and more responsive design adaptable to mobile, tablet and desktop. Going forward \"The Citizen\" plans to offer more mobile and tablet options. \n\nOn 7 October 2013, \"The Citizen\" announced that Editor Martin Williams would be stepping down. Williams, who had been with \"The Citizen\" for 19 years, and contributed to its many successes, retired at the end of October. \n\nHis replacement was named as Steve Motale, who at the time was the executive editor of \"Pretoria News\". Motale had started off as a reporter at \"The Citizen\" in 2002, later becoming political editor and then editor of \"Citizen Metro\".\n\nThe sport-focused weekly paper formerly known as the \"Super Saturday Citizen\" is published every Saturday. After the revamp under Dr. Garcia it was titled simply \"Saturday Citizen\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "748253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=748253", "title": "Third-wave feminism", "text": "Third-wave feminism\n\nThird-wave feminism is an iteration of the feminist movement that began in the early 1990s United States and continued until the fourth wave began around 2012. Born in the 1960s and 1970s as members of Generation X, and grounded in the civil-rights advances of the second wave, third-wave feminists embraced individualism and diversity and sought to redefine what it meant to be a feminist. According to feminist scholar Elizabeth Evans, the \"confusion surrounding what constitutes third-wave feminism is in some respects its defining feature.\"\n\nThe third wave is traced to the emergence of the Riot grrrl feminist punk subculture in Olympia, Washington, in the early 1990s, and to Anita Hill's televised testimony in 1991—to an all-male, all-white Senate Judiciary Committee—that Clarence Thomas, nominated for the Supreme Court of the United States, had sexually harassed her. The term \"third wave\" is credited to Rebecca Walker, who responded to Thomas's appointment to the Supreme Court with an article in \"Ms.\" magazine, \"Becoming the Third Wave\" (1992). She wrote:\n\nWalker sought to establish that third-wave feminism was not just a reaction, but a movement in itself, because the feminist cause had more work ahead. The term \"intersectionality\"—to describe the idea that women experience \"layers of oppression\" caused, for example, by gender, race and class—had been introduced by Kimberlé Williams Crenshaw in 1989, and it was during the third wave that the concept flourished. As feminists came online in the late 1990s and early 2000s and reached a global audience with blogs and e-zines, they broadened their goals, focusing on abolishing gender-role stereotypes and expanding feminism to include women with diverse racial and cultural identities. \n\nThe third wave saw the emergence of new feminist currents and theories, such as intersectionality, sex positivity, vegetarian ecofeminism, transfeminism, and postmodern feminism.\n\nThe rights and programs gained by feminists of the second wave served as a foundation for the third wave. The gains included Title IX (equal access to education); public discussion about the abuse and rape of women; access to contraception and other reproductive services (including the legalization of abortion); the creation and enforcement of sexual-harassment policies for women in the workplace; the creation of domestic-abuse shelters for women and children; child-care services; educational funding for young women; and women's studies programs.\n\nFeminist leaders rooted in the second wave such as Gloria Anzaldúa, bell hooks, Cherríe Moraga, Audre Lorde, Maxine Hong Kingston, and other feminists of color, sought to negotiate a space within feminist thought for consideration of race. Cherríe Moraga and Gloria E. Anzaldúa had published the anthology \"This Bridge Called My Back\" (1981), which, along with \"All the Women Are White, All the Blacks Are Men, But Some of Us Are Brave\" (1982), edited by Akasha (Gloria T.) Hull, Patricia Bell-Scott, and Barbara Smith, argued that second-wave feminism had focused primarily on the problems of white women. The emphasis on the intersection between race and gender became increasingly prominent.\n\nIn the interlude of the late 1970s and early 1980s, the feminist sex wars arose as a reaction against the radical feminism of the second wave and its views on sexuality, therein countering with a concept of \"sex-positivity\" and heralding the third wave.\n\nThe emergence of riot grrrl, the feminist punk subculture, in the early 1990s in Olympia, Washington, marked the beginning of third-wave feminism. The triple \"r\" in \"grrrl\" was intended to reclaim the word \"girl\" for women. Alison Piepmeier writes that riot grrrl and Sarah Dyer's \"Action Girl Newsletter\" formulated \"a style, rhetoric, and iconography for grrrl zines\" that came to define third-wave feminism, and that focused on the viewpoint of adolescent girls. Based on hard-core punk rock, the movement created zines and art, talked about rape, patriarchy, sexuality, and female empowerment, started chapters, and supported and organized women in music. An undated Bikini Kill tour flier asked \"What is Riot grrrl?\":\n\nRiot grrrl was grounded in the DIY philosophy of punk values, adopting an anti-corporate stance of self-sufficiency and self-reliance. Its emphasis on universal female identity and separatism often appeared more closely allied with second-wave feminism. Bands associated with the movement included Bratmobile, Excuse 17, Jack Off Jill, Free Kitten, Heavens to Betsy, Huggy Bear, L7, Fifth Column, and Team Dresch.\n\nRiot grrrl culture gave people the space to enact change on a macro, meso and micro scale. As Kevin Dunn explains:Using the do-it-yourself ethos of punk to provide resources for individual empowerment, Riot Grrrl encouraged females to engage in multiple sites of resistance. At the macro-level, Riot Grrrls resist society’s dominant constructions of femininity. At the meso-level, they resist stiﬂing gender roles in punk. At the micro-level, they challenge gender constructions in their families and among their peers.The demise of riot grrrl is linked to commodification and misrepresentation of its message, mainly through media coverage. \n\nIn 1991 Anita Hill accused Clarence Thomas, an African-American judge who had been nominated to the United States Supreme Court, of sexual harassment. Thomas denied the accusations, calling them a \"high-tech lynching\". After extensive debate, the United States Senate voted 52–48 in favor of Thomas. In response, \"Ms. Magazine\" published an article by Rebecca Walker, entitled \"Becoming the Third Wave\", in which she stated: \"I am not a post-feminism feminist. I am the third wave.\" Many had argued that Thomas should be acquitted because of his plans to create opportunities for people of color. When Walker asked her partner his opinion and he said the same thing, she asked: \"When will progressive black men prioritize my rights and well-being?\" She wanted racial equality but without dismissing women.\n\nIn 1992, dubbed the \"Year of the Woman\", four women enter the United States Senate to join the two already there. The following year another woman, Kay Bailey Hutchison, won a special election, bringing the number to seven. The 1990s saw the first female United States Attorney General and Secretary of State, as well as the second woman on the Supreme Court, Ruth Bader Ginsburg, and the first US First Lady, Hillary Clinton, to have had an independent political, legal and activist career.\n\nArguably the biggest challenge to third-wave feminism was that the gains of second-wave feminism were taken for granted, and the importance of feminism not understood. Baumgardner and Richards (2000) wrote: \"[F]or anyone born after the early 1960's, the presence of feminism in our lives is taken for granted. For our generation, feminism is like fluoride. We scarcely notice that we have it—it's simply in the water.\"\n\nEssentially the claim was that gender equality had already been achieved, via the first two waves, and further attempts to push for women's rights were irrelevant and unnecessary, or perhaps even pushed the pendulum too far in women's favor. This issue manifested itself in the heated debates about whether affirmative action was creating gender equality or punishing white, middle-class males for the biological history that they had inherited. Third-wave feminism therefore focused on consciousness-raising—\"one's ability to open their mind to the fact that male domination does affect the women of our generation, is what we need.\n\nThird-wave feminists often engaged in \"micro-politics\", and challenged the second wave's paradigm as to what was good for women. Proponents of third-wave feminism said that it allowed women to define feminism for themselves. Describing third-wave feminism in \"Manifesta: Young Women, Feminism And The Future\" (2000), Jennifer Baumgardner and Amy Richards suggested that feminism could change with every generation and individual:\n\nThird-wave feminists used personal narratives as a form of feminist theory. Expressing personal experiences gave women space to recognize that they were not alone in the oppression and discrimination they faced. Using these accounts has benefits because it records personal details that may not be available in traditional historical texts.\n\nThird-wave ideology focused on a more post-structuralist interpretation of gender and sexuality. Post-structuralist feminists saw binaries such as male–female as an artificial construct created to maintain the power of the dominant group. Joan W. Scott wrote in 1998 that \"poststructuralists insist that words and texts have no fixed or intrinsic meanings, that there is no transparent or self-evident relationship between them and either ideas or things, no basic or ultimate correspondence between language and the world\".\n\nAmy Richards defined the feminist culture for the third wave as \"third wave because it's an expression of having grown up with feminism\". Second-wave feminists grew up where the politics intertwined within the culture, such as \"Kennedy, the Vietnam War, civil rights, and women's rights\". In contrast, the third wave sprang from a culture of \"punk-rock, hip-hop, 'zines, products, consumerism and the Internet\". In an essay entitled \"Generations, Academic Feminists in dialogue\" Diane Elam wrote:\n\nRebecca Walker, in \"To Be Real: Telling the Truth and Changing the Face of Feminism\" (1995), wrote about her fear of rejection by her mother (Alice Walker) and her godmother (Gloria Steinem) for challenging their views:\n\nViolence against women, including rape, domestic violence, and sexual harassment, became a central issue. Organizations such as V-Day formed with the goal of ending gender violence, and artistic expressions, such as \"The Vagina Monologues,\" generated awareness. Third-wave feminists wanted to transform traditional notions of sexuality and embrace \"an exploration of women's feelings about sexuality that included vagina-centred topics as diverse as orgasm, birth, and rape\".\n\nOne of third-wave feminism's primary goals was to demonstrate that access to contraception and abortion are women's reproductive rights. According to Baumgardner and Richards, \"It is not feminism's goal to control any woman's fertility, only to free each woman to control her own.\" South Dakota's 2006 attempt to ban abortion in all cases, except when necessary to protect the mother's life, and the US Supreme Court's vote to uphold the partial birth abortion ban were viewed as restrictions on women's civil and reproductive rights. Restrictions on abortion in the US, which was mostly legalized by the 1973 Supreme Court decision in \"Roe v. Wade\", were becoming more common in states around the country. These included mandatory waiting periods, parental-consent laws, and spousal-consent laws.\n\nEnglish speakers continued to use words such as \"spinster\", \"bitch\", \"whore\", and \"cunt\" to refer to women in derogatory ways. Inga Muscio wrote, \"I posit that we're free to seize a word that was kidnapped and co-opted in a pain-filled, distant past, with a ransom that cost our grandmothers' freedom, children, traditions, pride and land.\" Taking back the word \"bitch\" was fueled by the single \"All Women Are Bitches\" (1994) by the all-woman band Fifth Column, and by the book \"Bitch: In Praise of Difficult Women\" (1999) by Elizabeth Wurtzel.\n\nThe utility of the reclamation strategy became a hot topic with the introduction of SlutWalks in 2011. The first took place in Toronto on 3 April that year in response to a Toronto police officer's remark that \"women should avoid dressing like sluts in order not to be victimized.\" Additional SlutWalks sprang up internationally, including in Berlin, London, New York City, Seattle, and West Hollywood. Several feminist bloggers criticized the campaign; reclamation of the word \"slut\" was questioned.\n\nThird-wave feminists expanded the second-wave feminists's definition of sexual liberation to \"mean a process of first becoming conscious of the ways one's gender identity and sexuality have been shaped by society and then intentionally constructing (and becoming free to express) one's authentic gender identity\". Since third-wave feminism relied on different personal definitions to explain feminism, there is controversy surrounding what sexual liberation really entails. Many third-wave feminists supported the idea that women should embrace their sexuality as a way to take back their power.\n\nThird-wave feminism regarded race, social class, and transgender rights as central issues. It also paid attention to workplace matters such as the glass ceiling, unfair maternity-leave policies, motherhood support for single mothers by means of welfare and child care, respect for working mothers, and the rights of mothers who decide to leave their careers to raise their children full-time.\n\nOne issue raised by critics was a lack of cohesion because of the absence of a single cause for third-wave feminism. The first wave fought for and gained the right for women to vote. The second wave fought for the right for women to have access to an equal opportunity in the workforce, as well as the end of legal sex discrimination. The third wave allegedly lacked a cohesive goal and was often seen as an extension of the second wave. Some argued that the third wave could be dubbed the \"Second Wave, Part Two\" when it came to the politics of feminism and that \"only young feminist culture\" was \"truly third wave\". One argument ran that the equation of third-wave feminism with individualism prevented the movement from growing and moving towards political goals. Kathleen P. Iannello wrote:\n\nFeminist scholars such as Shira Tarrant objected to the \"wave construct\" because it ignored important progress between the periods. Furthermore, if feminism is a global movement, she argued, the fact that the \"first-, second-, and third waves time periods correspond most closely to American feminist developments\" raises serious problems about how feminism fails to recognize the history of political issues around the world. The \"wave construct\" also focused on white women's suffrage and continued to marginalize the issues of women of color and lower-class women.\n\nThird-wave feminists proclaim themselves as the most inclusive wave of feminism. Critics have noted that while progressive, there is still exclusivity of women of color. Black feminists argue that \"the women rights movements were not uniquely for the liberation of Blacks or Black Women. Rather, efforts such as women's suffrage and abolition of slavery ultimately uplifted, strengthened, and benefited White society and White women\". One way to make future waves of feminism more inclusive is to include women of color in the conversation of defining feminism and setting the agenda.\n\nThird-wave feminism was often associated, primarily by its critics, with the emergence of so-called \"lipstick\" or \"girly\" feminists and the rise of \"raunch culture\". This was because these new feminists advocated for \"expressions of femininity and female sexuality as a challenge to objectification\". Accordingly, this included the dismissal of any restriction, whether deemed patriarchal or feminist, to define or control how women or girls should dress, act, or generally express themselves. These emerging positions stood in stark contrast with the anti-pornography strains of feminism prevalent in the 1980s. Second-wave feminism viewed pornography as encouraging violence towards women. The new feminists posited that the ability to make autonomous choices about self-expression could be an empowering act of resistance, not simply internalized oppression.\n\nSuch views were critiqued because of the subjective nature of empowerment and autonomy. Scholars were unsure whether empowerment was best measured as an \"internal feeling of power and agency\" or as an external \"measure of power and control\". Moreover they critiqued an over-investment in \"a model of free will and choice\" in the marketplace of identities and ideas. Regardless, the \"girly\" feminists attempted to be open to all different selves while maintaining a dialogue about the meaning of identity and femininity in the contemporary world.\n\nThird-wave feminists said that these viewpoints should not be limited by the label \"girly\" feminism or regarded as simply advocating for \"raunch culture\". Rather, they sought to be inclusive of the many diverse roles women fulfill. Gender scholars Linda Duits and Liesbet van Zoonen highlighted this inclusivity by looking at the politicization of women's clothing choices and how the \"controversial sartorial choices of girls\" and women are constituted in public discourse as \"a locus of necessary regulation\". Thus the \"hijab\" and the \"belly shirt\", as dress choices, were both identified as requiring regulation but for different reasons. Both caused controversy, while appearing to be opposing forms of self-expression. Through the lens of \"girly\" feminists, one can view both as symbolic of \"political agency and resistance to objectification\". The \"hijab\" could be seen as an act of resistance against Western ambivalence towards Islamic identity, and the \"belly shirt\" an act of resistance against patriarchal society's narrow views of female sexuality. Both were regarded as valid forms of self-expression.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3258605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3258605", "title": "Transnational feminist network", "text": "Transnational feminist network\n\nA transnational feminist network (TFN) is a network of women’s groups who work together for women’s rights at both a national and transnational level. They emerged in the mid 1980s as a response to structural adjustment and neoliberal policies, guided by ideas categorized as global feminism. TNF's are composed of representatives from a variety of NGO's from around the globe. These representatives then come together at conferences, such as the United Nations World Conference on Women and The NGO Forum in China.\n\nTFNs are similar to non-governmental organizations (NGOs) but while NGOs work at a local and national level, TFNs create coalitions across borders. Globalization affects women worldwide in adverse ways and TFNs emerged in response to these effects.\n\nAccording to Johanna Brenner in her article \"Transnational Feminism and the Struggle for Global Justice\":\n\nBrenner also states that\n\nPrograms like Structural Adjustment Programs (SAPs) are part of the package of globalization that is presented to other countries; and while such programs are portrayed as being valuable to improve the status of a country, they result in creating worse situations for the peoples of a country.\n\nTransnational Feminist Networks can be divided into different categories based on their goals. Some of these include Advocacy for Women's Human Rights, Peace, Anti-militarism, Conflict Resolution, Ending Violence Against Women and Reproductive and Health Rights.\n\nWomen’s groups form in response to the negative effects of globalization and TFNs emerge when these women’s groups come together to resolve shared issues. These groups work with one another across borders and they recognize their differences but also discover their similarities and form strong coalition’s bases on these similarities. In describing a conference held by the \"International Network of Women’s Studies Journals\", Tahera Aftab relayed that\n\nJust as these academics worked to reach consensus on issues, so do women’s groups who form TFNs.\n\nValentine Mogadam best describes TFNs in her book \"Globalizing Women: Transnational Feminist Networks\". She states in her text:\n\nAnother widespread aim of transnational feminist networks is to create a stronger sense of global human security while building peace. McKay argues that women and girls perspectives are a necessary component in developing programs and policies. There is a difference in the way men and women experience security and TNF’s have a role in amplifying the women’s perspectives to be acted upon. In specific, Woroniuk states that dimensions of women’s security include “(1) violence against women, (2) gender inequality in control over resources, (3) gender inequality in power and decision making, (4) women’s human rights, and (5) women (and men) as actors, not victims.” These areas are taken into account in TFN’s approach to policy changes and public awareness.\n\nIn 1995 the United Nations held the Fourth World Conference on women that was dedicated towards creating an approach to the marginalization of women. The outcome was a “gendering of the agenda” for other conferences worldwide, which included a focus on gender neutral approaches and prioritizing women’s rights in policy making.\n\nTNF’s response to world events can have a strong impact on the actions of governments and societies. An example of such was when the Taliban took control of Afghanistan in 1996 and a harsher regime threatened women’s security and rights. Pressure put on governments from feminists around the world resulted in an isolation of the Taliban and an importance placed on Afghan women’s rights.\n\nA few TFN’s:\n\n"}
{"id": "31500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31500", "title": "Turners", "text": "Turners\n\nTurners () are members of German-American gymnastic clubs that also served as nationalist political groups that were politically active and often served in German military outfits as well as the Union Army in the United States during the American Civil War.\n\nA German gymnastic movement was started by \"Turnvater\" (\"father of gymnastics\") Friedrich Ludwig Jahn in the early 19th century when Germany was occupied by Napoleon. The \"Turnvereine\" (\"gymnastic unions\") were not only athletic, but also political, reflecting their origin in similar \"nationalistic gymnastic\" organizations in Europe. The Turner movement in Germany was generally liberal in nature, and many Turners took part in the Revolution of 1848.\n\nAfter its defeat, the movement was suppressed and many Turners left Germany, some emigrating to the United States. Several of these Forty-Eighters went on to become Civil War soldiers, the great majority in the Union Army, and American politicians. Besides serving as physical education, social, political and cultural organizations for German immigrants, Turners were also active in the American public education and the labor movements. Eventually the German Turner movement became involved in the process leading to German unification.\n\nThe \"Turnvereine\" made a contribution to the integration of German-Americans into their new home. The organizations continue to exist in areas of heavy German immigration, such as Iowa, Texas, Wisconsin, Indiana, Ohio, Minnesota, Missouri, Syracuse, NY, Kentucky, New York City, and Los Angeles.\n\nTogether with Carl Schurz, the American Turners helped support the election of Abraham Lincoln as president of the United States. They provided the bodyguard at his inauguration on March 4, 1861, and at his funeral in April 1865. In the Camp Jackson Affair, a large force of German volunteers helped prevent Confederate forces from seizing the government arsenal in St. Louis just prior to the beginning of the war.\n\nLike other German-American groups, the American Turners experienced discrimination during World War I. The German language was banned in schools and universities, and German language journals and newspapers were shut down, but the Turner societies continued to function.\n\nIn 1948, the U.S. Post Office issued a 3-cent commemorative stamp marking the 100th anniversary of the movement in the United States.\n\nCultural assimilation and the two World Wars with Germany took a gradual toll on membership, with some halls closing and others becoming regular dance halls, bars or bowling alleys. Fifty-four Turner societies still existed around the U.S. as of 2011. The current headquarters of the American Turners is in Louisville, Kentucky.\n\nThe Turnverein Vorwaerts of Fort Wayne, Indiana, owned the Hugh McCulloch House from 1906 until 1966. It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1980.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58591550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58591550", "title": "Uniforms of the Italian Armed Forces", "text": "Uniforms of the Italian Armed Forces\n\nThe Uniforms of the Italian Armed Forces are categorized by the four different branches of the Italian military: the Italian Army, the Italian Navy, the Italian Air Force and the Carabinieri Corps. Each one of these armed forces and their subsections have their own uniforms. The style of these historical uniforms can be traced back to the Royal Sardinian Army in the mid-19th Century, which was the predecessor of the current Italian Armed Forces.\n\nThe uniforms of the Italian Armed Forces, at first, had symbolic meanings and, later on, became more function and grades based. The Spedizione dei Mille was an event during the war for Risorgimento (Italian Unification), where Giuseppe Garibaldi's thousand volunteer troops helped him liberate the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies. All of the troops wore red shirts, following the example of Garibaldi's Italian Legion that had fought in the Guerra Grande in South America. This earned the volunteer troops the nickname, the Camicie rosse. The first historical records of the actual Italian military uniform dates back to the Constitution (called Statuto Albertino) of the Royal Italian Army () in 1861, the year of Italian Unification. The soldiers of the Royal Army dressed in green colored uniforms with black boots and helmets. The black uniforms of Mussolini's militia, the Camicie Nere, is another symbolic army uniform in Italian history. Il Duce based these black uniforms on the uniforms of the Arditi, a special unit of the Italian Royal Army that fought in the First World War. During the World Wars, uniforms were prepared and manufactured in military factories. In 2000, the voluntary military service for women was started and female uniforms now represent 7% of all Italian military uniforms.\n\nThe Italian Navy (, abbreviated as MM) is the Navy of the Italian Republic. The Italian Navy is divided into different corps: Corps of Staff Officers (SM), Corps of Naval Engineering (GN), Corps of the Naval Arms (AN), Maritime Military Medical Corps (MD) for medics and for Pharmacists (FM), Corps of Military Maritime Commissariat (CM), Corps of the Port Captaincies (CP), Corps of the Military Maritime Crews (CEMM). Since 1861, the materials and uniforms used by the Italian Navy have been adjusted and often re-designed as the service evolved. The current uniforms are based on the Marina Militare rank system, and come with variations in rank and on a seasonal basis. This uniforms also vary depending on the the location where the personnel are serving, with different uniforms for serving on ships, naval planes, submarines or land locations.\n\nThe design of the uniforms are based on the rank of the personnel (officials, marshals, troops and cadets). The uniforms change seasonally for summer and winter, and have different uniforms for the different departments of the Navy. The uniforms are also made of different textile materials. There is also an operational uniform that the Navy uses.\n\nThe standard uniform used by regular troops is the same for male and female personnel, with the exception of the jacket in the winter version (six-buttons for male and a three-buttons for female personnel), and it presents two seasonal variations for summer and winter. The winter uniform is fully colored in a dark-blue, with the same color for its accessories, such as the hat’s brim (the hat itself is white on top, with the MM symbol sewn on it), the gloves, shoes and tie. A white shirt is worn underneath. The female personnel are also allowed to carry a bag and substitute the classic cut trousers with a skirt. The summer uniform is composed of a short-sleeved white shirt, worn with another white t-shirt underneath, both of which are tucked into the classical-cut white trousers and tightened by a belt with a golden colored buckle. The shoes are white, as well as the hat (whose brim remains black like the winter version). As for for the winter version, female personnel can carry a white bag.\n\nThe \"Ceremonial Uniform\" has two seasonal variations for summer and winter. There are some common features such as the hat, which remains white on top with a black brim and the Italian Navy symbol sewn on the front; the light blue band passing from the right shoulder and tied to the opposite hip; the black shoes and a sword, the hilt of which is coloured in gold. The different variations are mainly based on the choice of the color and in the weight of the material used. The summer version is lighter and almost entirely white colored, with black and golden shoulder pads. The winter version comes with a six-button black jacket, classical cut black trousers and a white shirt worn underneath. A black tie completes the uniform.\n\nThe Operational Raider Group (, abbreviated as GOI) is part of the Italian Special Forces and is one of the two sections that form the COMSUBIN. The GOI have different uniforms, including a scuba diving one. After being transported in a submarine, they use diving in order to stealthily reach places while remaining undercover. Another characteristic of this uniform is the harness used for steep access and egress points above water.\n\nThe Operational Divers Group (, abbreviated as GOS) is a special unit that is deployed for conducting any interventions in depths (of the sea) that reach more than 1000 meters underwater. The uniform used is fully black, with transparent scuba glasses, a torch mounted on top of the helmet and two oxygen tanks attached to the back of the operator.\n\nThe uniforms that are currently in use by the Italian Army (, abbreviated as EI) can be divided into four \"families\": the \"Regular Uniform\" (the only one that includes seasonal variations), the \"Service Uniform\", the \"Service Combat Uniform\", and the \"Ceremonial Uniform\" (only for Officials). There are precise laws that regulate Armed Forces’ uniforms regarding the type of material, color and badge. These military uniforms can only be sold to verified collectors and Army personnel. Civilians are allowed buy the ordinary uniform without the Army’s coat of arms.\n\nThe \"Regular Uniform\" consists of a single-breasted jacket with four buttons and four pockets. Trousers come with a classic cut and the front pleats have five pockets, one of which is for a pocket watch. The shirt worn underneath also has two small pockets. The uniform is completed with a necktie, brown leather gloves, brown shoes, khaki socks and a cap or headdress. Both summer and winter versions differ from each other in the materials that are used when making them.\n\nThe summer and winter \"Service Uniform\" have identical cuts and colors with the Regular uniform, while active military personnel always utilize a special headdress.\n\nThe \"Service Combat Uniform\" is the most used uniform, and it is distributed to all soldiers with the same mimetic pattern (paratroopers have a different model with a strengthening on the shoulders). It is composed of a beret, a five button closure jacket with two internal pockets, and trousers with four pockets: two posterior and one in the middle of each thigh. Accessories completing the uniform include gloves, special footwear and a t-shirt with short or long sleeves, depending on the season. If the activity or the situation requires so, a raincoat made up of a thermo lining and a warm windbreaker are added. The Combat version is composed of a helmet, an anti-reflection tarp, a scarf and a belt with glove compartment to the basic Service Uniform. When needed, the uniform is equipped with a bulletproof vest. Alpines troops utilize a different hat, with an eagle feather on the left side, and each unit has a different pompom color.\n\nThe \"Ceremonial Uniform\" includes a double-breasted jacket with six buttons and two pockets on the hips. Trousers come with a classic cut in fabric, as well as the jacket. The winter version is composed of a blue cape infantry, a black rigid cap, white gloves and black shoes. There are other accessories such as the necktie, a light blue scarf and a sabre that complete the uniform.\nHistorical uniforms are used in Military schools, the Military Academy, NCO schools and some regiments. They recall the light blue uniforms of the Savoy army. The Armed Force’s choice of headgear is the beret, used since the 1980s (adapted from the side cap), and is the most worn headdress by Italian troops. Each color or model has an historical reason and it also exists in a female version. The ribbon on the cylindrical part of the headgear differs for the Officials.\n\nItalian military troops adopted the \"grey-green uniform\" during the World War I. It was Luigi Brioschi, president of the Milanese section of the C.A.I. (Italian Alpine Club) in 1905 who presented a combat uniform more suitable for modern war, replacing the showy uniforms of the Royal Sardinian Army. Brioschi demonstrated that the grey uniforms used by the Arditi were less visible to enemy snipers, and so the project was financed. Grey-green uniforms have been utilized for forty years, including in the two World Wars. Nowadays they are a symbol for the Army and some Army Corps still currently use them for special occasions.\n\nIt was possible to update the grey-green uniforms in order to adjust them for World War II. The Officials, NCOs and troops uniforms differed from each other in the cloth’s quality  and workmanship. The Model 40 uniform abolished the colored or black velvet collars. Troops had a three-button jacket (known also as a sahariana), which included four patch-pockets with a central pleat closed by small buttons, and it was partially lined. Trousers were different for cavalry and infantry. They were secured on the calf by knee-length socks or by leather chaps. A cloth belt with small buttons clamped around the waist. NCOs and Officials utilized a lighter color than troops, and they were allowed to adapt their uniforms during the war.\n\nDuring the Italian War of Liberation in 1943, the personnel received khaki uniforms from the British Army, including a short jacket with a button panel in sight and two large pockets with a button and turn-up. Trousers had six pockets and they were secured to the ankles through two canvas buckles. The footwear used were long black boots that came up to the ankle. A campaign hat and pan helmet completed the uniform. The recognizable elements of the Italian khaki uniforms were the insignia and the grade emblems. Despite paratroopers preferring the khaki uniforms, they continued to wear the grey-green berets, helmets and the traditional campaign hats.\n\nOn 10 June 1967, the Paratroopers Brigade granted the name “Folgore” to the Battaglione Paracadutisti, and the beret’s color subsequently changed to amaranth (a colour adopted by many military departments all over the world).\n\nThe Italian 9 paratrooper assault regiment is a special forces’ department of the Italian Army. In 1997, Col Moschin re-adopted the traditional insignia of the Arditi in the Great War. It was added to the bomb with a flame on the left, overlapped by two crossed daggers, the paratrooper’s canopy and the right wing of the Aviotruppe’s medal.\nThe Granatieri di Sardegna is one of the oldest regiments in the Italian army. The force originated in Sardinia is now based in Rome. This corp is responsible for the guarding of the president. The regiment has its own traditional uniform. The uniform is black with red ornaments and contains a big black hat almost similar to that of the British Queen's Guard.\n\nThe Alpini are the oldest mountain infantry in the world and one of the Italian special forces. A special feature of their uniform is the \"Cappello Alpino\", that carries a black raven feather, a garment that gave this force the nickname: \"The Black feathers\" (). Officers traditionally had a white eagle feather instead of the black one. When the force was created, the hat worn was made of black felt. This was changed when the new green-grey uniform was adopted in 1909. Since then, the hat was changed to the distinctive grey felt that is currently being used. The Alpini has distinctive green cuffs on the dark blue tunics worn for full dress and barrack dress before 1915, and by the green piping on their light blue/grey trousers. When grey-green service uniforms were tried out by the Alpini in 1906, before the entire army adopted them in 1909, the distinctive green collar patches and typical headdress were retained and are still in service.\n\nThe uniforms of the Italian Air Force (, abbreviated as AM) includes a hand-tailored dress tunic that is made of a medium blue-grey colored wool. The uniform consists of a buttoned jacket and trousers, with a double buckled belt holding the jacket together to make the appearance of the serviceman more neat and trimmed down. It is worn with a white shirt and a blue or black tie. The first planes of the Italian Air Force were not equipped with a closed cabin for the pilots, so earlier versions of the uniforms for pilots included helmets and goggles. \n\nThe Air Force uniform no longer includes the helmets as part of the standard uniform. The uniforms vary also according to their department. These can be classified in the \"training department\", \"flight department\", \"support department\", \"aerial defence department\" and a unit consisting of production. Unique to the Air Force uniforms is that in the public sector, the brand Aeronautica Militare has the license given by the Italian Air Force to produce and sell fashion that is based on the looks and designs of the Air Force uniforms.\n\nThis Italian Air Force special forces unit, the 17th Raiders Wing (), was created during the Second World War. They are equipped with a military green uniform, including a multi-pocket jacket used to hold any kind of equipment or other devices needed in order to ensure versatility and total functionality when in use.\n\nIn Italy, there are two police forces. The regular state police, the Polizia, and the Carabinieri. The Carabinieri were part of the Italian Army until the early 2000s. Since then, they are considered as an independent part of the Italian Armed Forces. The first nine written rules about Tuscany uniforms for Carabinieri date back to 9 August 1814 and recite the first design of the uniforms.\n\nThe uniform that the Gendarmerie wore in 1814 consisted of a turquoise fabric buttoned suit with a blue collar and padded gloves. Since 1822, some small changes have been made to the uniform. Officials and Marshals had silver swords and sabers, both in a black leather scabbard. At the beginning of the 20th Century, the rules of the dress code were reinforced because of World War I. Troops had three different types of uniforms: the \"Complete uniform\", the \"Ordinary uniform\", and the \"Effort uniform\". In 1940, Italy was one of the many countries that fought in World War II. The Carabinieri's uniform at that time was made of a green-grey cloth material, and was used by all soldiers.\nFor historical and ceremonial use, the Carabinieri uniform consists of a distinctive black uniform made of silver braids around the collar and cuffs, edges trimmed in scarlet and epaulettes in silver. The fringes of the mounted division are white, and the infantry has light blue. The headgear used is the traditional two-pointed hat for Carabinieri, known as the Lucerna, also called a bicorne. In the Eighties Giorgio Armani designed the new more modern uniforms.\n\nThe modern Carabinieri Force uniform is colored in black for every seasonal version, with small variations on weather basis (coat or wind jacket), and is composed of a four-button jacket with shoulder pads: all buttons on the uniform are silvered. The shirt underneath is white, with two pockets. The trousers have a classic cut, with four pockets and has two vertical red stripes along the outer side of both legs, stretching from the hips to the ankles. Flat black shoes are worn. The uniform is accompanied by accessories such as the black tie and, occasionally, black leather gloves. The rigid hat presents the Arma’s frieze.\n\nUnder the Carabinieri, there are also special police forces in charge with both internal and external security, each with their own uniforms. \n\nThe Carabinieri's section of Special Intervention Group (, abbreviated as GIS) is an anti-terrorism unit founded in 1978. The color of the uniform utilized by this élite force is usually the dark blue, even though mimetic and desert variations exist. Reinforcements such as helmets, knee pads, elbow pads or bulletproof jackets are composed of fireproof and insulating materials.\n\nCalabrian and Sardinian Hunters () are one of the special section of support for the Arma dei Carabinieri. Due to the generally milder weather and the rocky features of the southern landscape, the Hunters' uniforms consist of a lighter battle dress with a dark green camouflage pattern, together with leather gloves and combat boots. Also present with the uniform is a distinctive bright red beret, with the Carabinieri symbol sewn onto it.\n\nThe Sicilian Hunters () are a special paratroop unit of the Carabinieri based in Sicily. This unit is mainly tasked to search for fugitives in the Sicilian mountains. Besides the normal Carabinieri uniforms, this troop also possesses operational uniforms like the other Hunter squadrons. The operative uniform has an extra blue neckerchief, leather gloves and combat boots.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57975033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57975033", "title": "Witsand Solar Desalination Plant", "text": "Witsand Solar Desalination Plant\n\nWitsand Solar Desalination Plant (WSDP), is a water purification project, under construction in South Africa.\n\nThe water treatment facility is under construction in the seaside town of Witsand, in Hessequa Local Municipality, in the Western Cape Province, at the mouth of the Breede River. This is approximately , by road, south-east of Cape Town, the nearest large city.\n\nThe town of Witsand is a tourist attraction, with a low-season population of approximately 300 people. During the tourist high-season, the population swells to over 3,000 people, leading to freshwater scarcity in the town.To address that scarcity, the government of the Western Cape and the French government, decided to jointly develop and fund he Witsand water purification project.\n\nThe WSDP is the first desalination plant in South Africa, that uses solar energy to power its processes. Its new technology applications, allow for the elimination of storage batteries in the design. The plant's new Osmosun technology, involves the use of a specialized \"intelligent\" membrane that is able to continue delivering reverse osmosis, even when the sun goes behind a cloud, thus reducing the amount of solar energy delivered. The energy delivered would increase again when the clouds moved away. That ability to \"soften\" the variability in the energy delivered, preserves the reverse osmosis membrane. At night, when there is no sun, the design allows the plant to switch to conventional grid-electricity and continue working all through the darkness, until the sun rises the next morning.\n\nThe budgeted cost of the plant is ZAR:8.6 million (approx. US$650,000), to be shared equally between the governments of the Western Cape and that of France. The unit cost of the purified water at this plant is between ZAR:7 to ZAR:8 (US$0.52 to US$0.60) for every . In comparison, the temporary diesel-fueled desalination plant at Strandfontein, in Cape Town, produces potable water at ZAR:35 to ZAR:40 (US$2.62 to US$3.00) for every 1,000 liters. If this project is a success, it might be reproduced in other parts of the country, where drought is a problem.\n\nIn order to generate enough solar energy for its internal processes, the plant needs to accommodate the requisite solar panels. This requirement for large areas to install solar panels, may restrict the project's reproducibility in crowded cities like Cape Town.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16306159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16306159", "title": "Zeitgeschichtliche Forschungsstelle Ingolstadt", "text": "Zeitgeschichtliche Forschungsstelle Ingolstadt\n\nThe Zeitgeschichtliche Forschungsstelle Ingolstadt e. V. (\"Ingolstadt Research Institute for Contemporary Historical Research registered association\", \"ZFI\", also known as \"Institut für Zeitgeschichtsforschung Ingolstadt\") is a historical revisionist association located in Dunsdorf, Bavaria.\n\nThe ZFI was founded in 1981 and shaped by Alfred Schickel, Hellmut Diwald and , in opposition to the renowned Institut für Zeitgeschichte (Institut für Contemporary History) in Munich. It has about 500 to 600 members. It organizes large meetings twice a year, and publishes the \"Zeitgeschichtliche Bibliothek\" and the \"ZFI-Informationen\". Stephen E. Atkins has stated that the ZFI is a Holocaust denial institution in Germany, while the head of the ZFI, Alfred Schickel, is careful to avoid German restrictions against disputing the Holocaust and has concentrated on what Atkins describes as “so-called Allied atrocities against the Germans”. For instance, Schickel wrote in 1980 that the number of six millions Jews killed in the Holocaust was “no longer advocated seriously today in contemporary historical science”. \"The ZFI rejects the findings of historical research, and uses ideologically based pseudohistory. In doing so, it creates a \"parallel universe\" isolated from scholarly discourse by self-referencing to its own publications.\" In conferences and meetings, National Socialism is trivialized, and the German guilt for the Second World War is denied. This happens in close collaboration with periodicals such as \"Europa Vorn\", \"Nation und Europa\" and \"\", which pursue similar goals. The founders of ZFI, who except for Schickel have died, have collaborated with historical revisionist and Radical right organizations. Former GDR policeman regarded the ZFI in 1994 as \"one of the intellectual centers of far right historical revisionism in Germany\".\n\nThe ZFI was previously observed by the intelligence service of the Bavarian government. However, the ZFI no longer features in the yearly reports of the intelligence service, that depict extremist and anti-constitutional activities. In February 2007, the service stated, though, that \"Publications belonging to the far right refer to the Head of the ZFI and his articles in order to propagate thoughts which are not compatible with the free democratic order.\" \n\nThe SPD and others have made allegations that (CSU), Lord Mayor of Ingolstadt, has participated several times in ZFI conferences, while Horst Seehofer (CSU), the minister for food, agriculture and consumer protection, had sent a laudatory greeting to the organization.\n\nSome of the more active critics of the institution include the left-wing journalist Anton Maegerle, who published his portrait of the ZFI in 1996. Its publications are widely considered to be of revisionist nature.\n\nDie ZFI also awards the \"Dr. Walter-Eckhardt-Ehrengabe für Zeitgeschichtsforschung\" (“Dr. Walter Eckhardt Honorary Gift for Contemporary Historical Research”). Among the recipients in the preceding years were:\n\n\n"}
