{"id": "24911934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24911934", "title": "2009 flu pandemic in Turkey", "text": "2009 flu pandemic in Turkey\n\nThe 2009 flu pandemic was a global outbreak of a new strain of influenza A virus subtype H1N1, first identified in April 2009, termed Pandemic H1N1/09 virus by the World Health Organization (WHO) and colloquially called swine flu. The outbreak was first observed in Mexico, and quickly spread globally. On 11 June 2009, WHO declared the outbreak to be a pandemic. The overwhelming majority of patients experience mild symptoms\", but some persons are in higher risk groups, such as those with asthma, diabetes, obesity, heart disease, or who are pregnant or have a weakened immune system. In the rare severe cases, around 3–5 days after symptoms manifest, the sufferer's condition declines quickly, often to the point respiratory failure.\nThe virus reached Turkey in May 2009. A U.S. citizen, flying from the United States via Amsterdam was found to be suffering from the swine flu after arriving at Istanbul's Atatürk International Airport. Turkey is the 17th country in Europe and the 36th country in the world to report an incident of swine flu.\n\nThe Turkish Government has taken measures at the international airports, using thermal imaging cameras to check passengers coming from international destinations.\n\nThe first case of person to person transmission within Turkey was announced on 26 July 2009.\n\nOn 2 November, the Turkish Health Ministry began administering vaccines against H1N1 influenza, starting with health workers.\n\nAfter a slow start, the virus spread rapidly in Turkey and the number of cases reached 12,316. First death confirmed on 24 October and death toll reached 627.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54852248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54852248", "title": "2017 Fipronil eggs contamination", "text": "2017 Fipronil eggs contamination\n\nThe 2017 Fipronil eggs contamination is an incident in Europe and Asia involving the spread of fipronil insecticide which contaminated human consumed chicken eggs and egg products.\n\nChicken eggs were found to contain fipronil and distributed to 15 European Union countries, Switzerland, Hong Kong. Approximately 700,000 eggs are thought to have reached shelves in the UK alone. Fipronil contaminated eggs may have been sold for a long time prior to the discovery of high levels. Fipronil was used in a remedy to destroy the poultry mite.\n\nAuthorities in the Netherlands were alerted by an anonymous source in November 2016 that fipronil was being used in poultry farms, but failed to communicate the findings. \nIn July/August 2017 millions of chicken eggs were blocked from sale or withdrawn from the market in the Netherlands, Belgium, Germany and France after elevated levels of fipronil were discovered by the Dutch food and product safety board. About 180 Dutch farms were temporarily shut down. In early August, Aldi reported removing all eggs for sale in their German stores as a precaution.\n\nBecause the use of fipronil is illegal in the production of food for human consumption in Europe, a criminal investigation has been initiated.\n\nEarly investigation led to two companies: ChickFriend, a provider of pest control services in the Netherlands suspected of knowingly using and selling DEGA-16 mixed with fipronil to hundreds of chicken farmers and Poultry Vision in Belgium accused of selling DEGA-16 mixed with fipronil to ChickFriend. DEGA-16 is a cleaning and sanitising natural product, that is approved to clean chicken stables. The Dutch owners of ChickFriend were arrested during a large scale operation conducted by Dutch law enforcement agencies on the 10th of August. \nFirst results of an investigation by Belgian police led to the discovery of 6 cubic meters of fipronil that Poultry Vision had imported from a chemical manufacturing company in Romania.\n\nThe Dutch Safety Board announced on the 8th of August that an official investigation has been initiated.\n\nIn South Korea, fipronil contaminated eggs, which were produced in Namyangju, were founded by authorities on August 14, 2017. E-mart, Homeplus, and Lotte Mart stopped selling eggs temporarily on the same day.\n\nScientific tests carried in Germany on imported eggs to Malta found that eight of twenty had traces of fipronil, and the Maltese were informed to take measures in limiting the consumption to not more than two eggs per day.\n\nThe Maximum Residue Limit (MRL) of fipronil in eggs is set at the detection limit of 0.005 mg/kg within the European Union, as is outlined in Regulation (EC) No 396/2005 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 February 2005. \nFipronil is classed as a WHO Class II moderately hazardous pesticide, and has a rat acute oral LD50 of 97 mg/kg.\n\nThe Dutch food and product safety board (NVWA) reported that the test results of one batch of eggs originating from one poultry farm in the Netherlands exceeded the threshold of 0.72 mg/kg. Eggs containing fipronil values above this threshold could have possible negative health effects.\n"}
{"id": "25433426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25433426", "title": "Abutment (dentistry)", "text": "Abutment (dentistry)\n\nIn dentistry, an abutment is a connecting element. This is used in the context of a fixed bridge (the \"abutment teeth\" referring to the teeth supporting the bridge), partial removable dentures (the \"abutment teeth\" referring to the teeth supporting the partial) and in implants (used to attach a crown, bridge, or removable denture to the dental implant fixture). The implant fixture is the screw-like component that is osseointegrated.\n\nDental bridge abutments are made such that the path of insertion of the teeth involved is nearly parallel with each other.\n\nPartial denture abutments are unique in that they may incorporate elements such as rest seats, guide planes, and recontouring.\n\nThese are usually called prosthetic implant abutments. These abutments can be made from a variety of materials, such as titanium, surgical stainless steel and gold.\n\nThe adjacent images show how a ceramic abutment can enhance a ceramic crown by giving it a more lifelike appearance. Ceramic abutments have to be used with care, however, since their compressive strength is nowhere near that of titanium, gold or other noble metals. Most clinicians feel more comfortable using a metal prosthetic abutment in the posterior molar areas, due to the increased masticatory forces present in these areas.\n\nAn abutment is not necessarily parallel to the long axis of the implant. It is utilized when the implant is at a different inclination in relation to the proposed prosthesis. Most crowns and fixed partial dentures have a cemented or screw-retained fixation on the abutment.\n\nIn a three piece implant the abutment is fixed on the implant with a screw butt joint. This screw needs to be tightened to a predetermined torque with a dental torque wrench, in order to avoid screw loosening during chewing, which can often create a counter-clockwise torque on the implant-abutment interface, encouraging the abutment screw to come loose. This can largely be prevented with proper screw design and torquing of the abutment.\n\nIn a two piece implant the abutment is morse tapered or cold welded on the implant. Microbial leakage and colonization between the implant and the abutments can result in inflammatory reactions and crestal bone loss. Morse taper conical abutments showed a cumulative implant survival rate of 98.23% in terms of seal performance, microgap formation, torque maintenance, and abutment stability.\n\nA one piece implant (OPI) incorporates the trans-mucosal abutment as an integral part of the implant. This type of implant is often used with a flapless procedure and immediate loading (the crown is placed in a short time after placing the implant).\n\n"}
{"id": "2276002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2276002", "title": "Anton Gala", "text": "Anton Gala\n\nAnton Gala (March 12, 1891, Kunovice (Uherské Hradiště District), Moravia – August 29, 1977, Bratislava) was a Slovak university professor and scientist specializing in ophthalmology. \n\nGala graduated from secondary school at Uherské Hradiště in 1910, then studied medicine at the Charles University in Prague, graduating in 1916. During World War I he served on a hospital ship. From 1919 to 1961 he worked at the faculty of medicine of Comenius University in Bratislava; from 1931 as professor, in 1937/38 as dean of the faculty.\n\n"}
{"id": "37779362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37779362", "title": "Blackout Wednesday", "text": "Blackout Wednesday\n\nBlackout Wednesday (also known as Black Wednesday, Drinksgiving, Thanksgiving Eve, Wacky Wednesday, Whiskey Wednesday, or Awkward Wednesday) is a pejorative term for the night before the Thanksgiving holiday in the United States. It is associated with binge drinking since very few people work on Thanksgiving, and most university students are home to celebrate the Thanksgiving holiday with their families. The name refers to \"blacking out\", memory loss due to excessive alcohol intoxication. In the south Chicago suburbs in particular, Blackout Wednesday is sometimes a more popular partying night than even New Year's Eve or Saint Patrick's Day. In some cities, it is the top drunk driving night of the year. Police departments increase patrols checking for drunk driving in many jurisdictions including in Indiana and Minnesota. MADD reports that the Thanksgiving holiday produces more people killed in drunk driving crashes than the Christmas holiday.\n\nThe term has a search history on Google beginning in 2014.\n\nHurricane Haynesworth\n"}
{"id": "57896406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57896406", "title": "Brother Nut", "text": "Brother Nut\n\nBrother Nut is an internationally-known performance artist based in Beijing, China. He is known only by his pseudonym, 坚果兄弟, which is also sometimes translated in English as \"Nut Brother.\" He was born in Shenzen in 1981.\n\nHis best known work is 2015's \"Project Dust,\" which consisted of the creation of a brick made entirely from particulate matter vacuumed out of heavily polluted Beijing city air. This project spotlighted Beijing's ongoing air pollution problems at a time when China sought to recast itself as an environmentally-aware nation. Project Dust received press coverage in the United States and Europe, as well as in Asian press. An online photo gallery is also maintained to summarize the activity of the project.\n\nIn 2018, he made headlines again with his project, “Nongfu Spring Market” in which he exhibited 9000 bottles of polluted water from the village of Xiaohaotu, in Shaanxi. The bottled water was then exhibited in the form of a street market set up in the 798 Art District in Beijing. While the art show was shut down by authorities, the government also began investigations into the town's water pollution problems.\n\nIn 2016 Nut Brother was a speaker at the Enter the Anthropocene Creative Time Summit in Washington DC.\n"}
{"id": "641156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=641156", "title": "Bruise", "text": "Bruise\n\nA contusion, commonly known as a bruise, is a type of hematoma of tissue in which capillaries and sometimes venules are damaged by trauma, allowing blood to seep, hemorrhage, or extravasate into the surrounding interstitial tissues. Most bruises are not very deep under the skin so that the bleeding causes a visible discoloration. The bruise then remains visible until the blood is either absorbed by tissues or cleared by immune system action. Bruises, which do not blanch under pressure, can involve capillaries at the level of skin, subcutaneous tissue, muscle, or bone. Bruises are not to be confused with other similar-looking lesions primarily distinguished by their diameter or causation. These lesions include petechia (< 3 mm result from numerous and diverse etiologies such as adverse reactions from medications such as warfarin, straining, asphyxiation, platelet disorders and diseases such as cytomegalovirus), purpura (3 mm to 1 cm, classified as palpable purpura or non-palpable purpura and indicates various pathologic conditions such as thrombocytopenia), and ecchymosis (>1 cm caused by blood dissecting through tissue planes and settled in an area remote from the site of trauma or pathology such as periorbital ecchymosis, e.g.,\"raccoon eyes\", arising from a basilar skull fracture or from a neuroblastoma).\n\nAs a type of hematoma, a bruise is always caused by internal bleeding into the interstitial tissues which does not break through the skin, usually initiated by blunt trauma, which causes damage through physical compression and deceleration forces. Trauma sufficient to cause bruising can occur from a wide variety of situations including accidents, falls, and surgeries. Disease states such as insufficient or malfunctioning platelets, other coagulation deficiencies, or vascular disorders, such as venous blockage associated with severe allergies can lead to the formation of purpura which is not to be confused with trauma-related bruising/contusion. If the trauma is sufficient to break the skin and allow blood to escape the interstitial tissues, the injury is not a bruise but bleeding, a different variety of hemorrhage. Such injuries may be accompanied by bruising elsewhere.\n\nBruises often induce pain immediately after the trauma that results in their formation, but small bruises are not normally dangerous alone. Sometimes bruises can be serious, leading to other more life-threatening forms of hematoma, such as when associated with serious injuries, including fractures and more severe internal bleeding. The likelihood and severity of bruising depends on many factors, including type and healthiness of affected tissues. Minor bruises may be easily recognized in people with light skin color by characteristic blue or purple appearance (idiomatically described as \"black and blue\") in the days following the injury.\n\nThe presence of bruises may be seen in patients with platelet or coagulation disorders, or those who are being treated with an anticoagulant. Unexplained bruising may be a warning sign of child abuse, domestic abuse, or serious medical problems such as leukemia or meningoccocal infection. Unexplained bruising can also indicate internal bleeding or certain types of cancer. Long-term glucocorticoid therapy can cause easy bruising. Bruising present around the navel (belly button) with severe abdominal pain suggests acute pancreatitis. Connective tissue disorders such as Ehlers-Danlos syndrome may cause relatively easy or spontaneous bruising depending on the severity.\n\nDuring an autopsy, bruises accompanying abrasions indicate the abrasions occurred while the individual was alive, as opposed to damage incurred post mortem.\n\nBruise shapes may correspond directly to the instrument of injury or be modified by additional factors. Bruises often become more prominent as time lapses, resulting in additional size and swelling, and may grow to a large size over the course of the hours after the injury that caused the bruise was inflicted. As stated above, bruising present in a different location than the site of impact is called \"ecchymosis\" and generally occurs when the tissue at the site of injury is loose, allowing blood to travel under the skin to another location due to gravity or other forces, such as in a black eye.\n\n\nBruises can be scored on a scale from 0-5 to categorize the severity and danger of the injury.\nThe harm score is determined by the extent and severity of the injuries to the organs and tissues causing the bruising, in turn depending on multiple factors. For example, a contracted muscle will bruise more severely, as will tissues crushed against underlying bone. Capillaries vary in strength, stiffness and toughness, which can also vary by age and medical conditions.\n\nLow levels of damaging forces produce small bruises and generally cause the individual to feel minor pain straight away. Repeated impacts worsen bruises, increasing the harm level. Normally, light bruises heal nearly completely within two weeks, although duration is affected by variation in severity and individual healing processes; generally, more severe or deeper bruises take somewhat longer.\n\nSevere bruising (harm score 2–3) may be dangerous or cause serious complications. Further bleeding and excess fluid may accumulate causing a hard, fluctuating lump or swelling hematoma. This has the potential to cause compartment syndrome in which the swelling cuts off blood flow to the tissues. The trauma that induced the bruise may also have caused other severe and potentially fatal harm to internal organs. For example, impacts to the head can cause traumatic brain injury: bleeding, bruising and massive swelling of the brain with the potential to cause concussion, coma and death. Treatment for brain bruising may involve emergency surgery to relieve the pressure on the brain.\n\nDamage that causes bruising can also cause bones to be broken, tendons or muscles to be strained, ligaments to be sprained, or other tissue to be damaged. The symptoms and signs of these injuries may initially appear to be those of simple bruising. Abdominal bruising or severe injuries that cause difficulty in moving a limb or the feeling of liquid under the skin may indicate life-threatening injury and require the attention of a physician.\n\nIncreased distress to tissue causes capillaries to break under the skin, allowing blood to escape and build up. As time progresses, blood seeps into the surrounding tissues, causing the bruise to darken and spread. Nerve endings within the affected tissue detect the increased pressure, which, depending on severity and location, may be perceived as pain or pressure or be asymptomatic. The damaged capillary endothelium releases endothelin, a hormone that causes narrowing of the blood vessel to minimize bleeding. As the endothelium is destroyed, the underlying von Willebrand factor is exposed and initiates coagulation, which creates a temporary clot to plug the wound and eventually leads to restoration of normal tissue.\n\nDuring this time, larger bruises may change color due to the breakdown of hemoglobin from within escaped red blood cells in the extracellular space. The striking colors of a bruise are caused by the phagocytosis and sequential degradation of hemoglobin to biliverdin to bilirubin to hemosiderin, with hemoglobin itself producing a red-blue color, biliverdin producing a green color, bilirubin producing a yellow color, and hemosiderin producing a golden-brown color. As these products are cleared from the area, the bruise disappears. Often the underlying tissue damage has been repaired long before this process is complete.\n\nTreatment for light bruises is minimal and may include RICE (rest, immobilize, cold, elevate), painkillers (particularly NSAIDs) and, later in recovery, light stretching exercises. Particularly, immediate application of ice while elevating the area may reduce or completely prevent swelling by restricting blood flow to the area and preventing internal bleeding. Rest and preventing re-injury is essential for rapid recovery.\n\nVery gently massaging the area and applying heat may encourage blood flow and relieve pain according to the gate control theory of pain, although causing additional pain may indicate the massage is exacerbating the injury. As for most injuries, these techniques should not be applied until at least three days following the initial damage to ensure all internal bleeding has stopped, because although increasing blood flow will allow more healing factors into the area and encourage drainage, if the injury is still bleeding this will allow more blood to seep out of the wound and cause the bruise to become worse.\n\nIn most cases hematomas spontaneously revert, but in cases of large hematomas or those localized in certain organs (\"e.g.\", the brain), the physician may perform a puncture of the hematoma to allow blood to exit.\n\nFolk medicine, including ancient medicine of Egyptians, Greeks, Celts, Turks, Slavs, Mayans, Aztecs and Chinese, has used bruising as a treatment for some health problems. The methods vary widely and include cupping, scraping, and slapping. Fire cupping uses suction which causes bruising in patients. Scraping (Gua Sha) uses a small hand device with a rounded edge to gently scrape the scalp or the skin. Another ancient device that creates mild bruising is a strigil, used by Greeks and Romans in the bath. Archaeologically there is no precedent for scraping tools before Greek archaeological evidence, not Chinese or Egyptian.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36113645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36113645", "title": "Cancer insurance", "text": "Cancer insurance\n\nCancer insurance is a type of supplemental health insurance that is meant to manage the risks associated with the cancer disease and its numerous manifestations. Cancer insurance is relatively new trend within the insurance industry at large. It is meant to mitigate the costs of cancer treatment and provide policyholders with a degree of financial support. This support is based upon the terms written into a particular policy by an insurance company. As with other forms of insurance, cancer insurance is subject to charges, called premiums, which change depending on the risk associated with covering the disease.\n\nIn terms of the insurance industry, cancer insurance is novel form of coverage, having emerged approximately 50 years ago. This coverage was created by insurers like the American Heritage Life Insurance Company and Aflac to meet demand coming from those suffering from the disease. Cancer insurance was not designed to replace conventional health insurance coverage. Instead, this type of insurance is meant to augment conventional policies by providing coverage for a disease that is often associated with high out-of-pocket medical costs, even when coverage is provided through traditional insurance policies.\n\nCancer insurance policies typically offer wellness benefits (varies from state to state) that are meant to help those suffering from cancer or at risk of developing the disease adopt healthier lifestyles. These benefits vary depending on the insurance company providing coverage. These benefits can offer financial support for those pursuing healthy living programs, such as tobacco cessation, gym memberships, and dietary changes. Insurers may also offer access to information regarding healthy lifestyles, which policyholders are able to acquire at any time.\nTypical coverage benefits also provide policyholders with access to wellness tests that are meant for early detection of disease and monitoring other aspects of overall health. These tests include mammograms, Pap smear tests, and colonoscopies as well as many others. In many cases, those with cancer insurance must submit proof that they have received an exam to their cancer insurance provider. This matter is typically handled by the medical professional conducting the exam. Once the evidence of the exam has been submitted and verified, the insurance company will then provide the necessary financial support.\nAs a supplement to traditional health insurance policies, cancer insurance and its associated benefits, are limited in scope. The benefits associated with these policies are often designed to mitigate the effects of cancer or encourage the prevention of the disease as a whole.\nBenefits come in different varieties depending upon the insurance company underwriting the policies. Many policies offer benefits concerning medical expenses, which include costs associated with health care, such as cancer treatment. Other policies offer benefits concerning non-medical costs. These benefits provide policyholders with financial assistance for transportation, food, home and child care, and certain bills.\n\nSkin cancer is the most commonly diagnosed form of cancer. The primary categories of skin cancer are basal-cell carcinoma (BCC), squamous-cell carcinoma (SCC), and melanoma. The first two, collectively known as non-melanoma skin cancers (NMSC), are highly unlikely to metastasize and comprise the majority of skin cancer diagnoses.\n\nMany cancer insurance plans do not offer benefits for policyholders diagnosed with these \"non-melanoma\" skin cancers, or a large share of cases that are frequently called cancer. Other plans that provide both initial-diagnosis payments and recurring payments may not provide a lump-sum benefit for the initial diagnosis of a non-melanoma skin cancer.\n\nSome cancer insurance plans cover only those costs associated with cancer itself. Under these plans, costs associated with any non-cancer illness that was directly or indirectly induced or complicated by cancer are not covered. For example, even though lung cancer increases risk of pneumonia, medical costs related to treatment of pneumonia that occurs after a cancer diagnosis would not be covered by a cancer insurance plan.\n\nOther cancer insurance plans may only cover costs that arise after a patient has developed cancer proper. Policyholders do not receive benefits if they are detected with pre-malignant symptoms or other conditions that show the \"potential\" for malignancy.\n\nSome cancer insurance plans only cover costs related to inpatient care, even though some forms of treatment may require outpatient care. Under these plans, cancer treatment given to a patient after they have left a hospital, including radiation and chemotherapy, may not be covered.\n\nWhile cancer insurance plans have varying definitions of pre-existing conditions, they generally agree in that they impose restrictions on individuals who have already been diagnosed with cancer at time of enrollment. Some plans may not provide benefits for costs incurred due to a pre-existing condition during the first twelve months of coverage. Other plans may render patients completely ineligible if they have ever been diagnosed with certain forms of cancer, AIDS, or HIV.\n\nCancer insurance is a form of supplemental insurance that is meant to cover gaps in a patient's primary insurance plans, but in some instances, primary insurance plans provide cancer coverage benefits that overlap with those of the supplemental cancer insurance plan. While some cancer insurance plans will pay benefits no matter what the primary insurance plan pays, some primary insurance plans may include a coordination of benefits clause that prohibit double payment. Other cancer insurance plans may stipulate that patients cannot receive double benefits.\n\nSome cancer insurance plans have provisions that prevent the policyholder from receiving benefits during a period after initial enrollment; this length is frequently thirty days. Some plans stipulate that if a policyholder is diagnosed with cancer in the first thirty days of coverage, their benefits are significantly reduced and coverage will subsequently be terminated.\n\nHealth insurance eligibility is often subject to the risk management and appraisal practices of insurance companies. Because of the risks posed by serious health issues, such as cancer, companies often take a strong stance against providing new coverage to those with the disease. As such, typical health insurance policies do not offer coverage for cancer. In these cases, supplemental insurance policies, such as those designed to cover cancer specifically, can be useful.\nIn the U.S., changes to health care laws have made it possible for those with pre-existing medical conditions to obtain insurance coverage.The Affordable Care Act, the law which has presented these changes, has required health insurance companies in the country to offer coverage to those suffering from conditions such as cancer. Though the law stipulates that these people must be granted access to health insurance, insurance policies are subject to the whims of the companies that underwrite them. As such, the provisions of these policies can vary dramatically depending on the health insurance company involved. In some cases, insurers design their policies to be financially unattractive to those suffering from costly medical conditions.\n\nAs a supplemental health insurance plan, cancer insurance policies are meant to close the gaps left behind by conventional insurance policies. Even so, these plans may not provide coverage for the full extent of health issues related to the disease. Complications concerning the disease can have a tremendous effect on the availability of cancer insurance policies.\nOne of the primary concerns regarding cancer insurance coverage is eligibility. Typically, those with pre-existing medical conditions, such as cancer, are not eligible for the coverage. The factors that determine eligibility vary from insurer to insurer.\n"}
{"id": "56095014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56095014", "title": "Cannabis in Mozambique", "text": "Cannabis in Mozambique\n\nCannabis in Mozambique is illegal; the drug is locally referred to as suruma.\n\nThere are several theories as to how and when cannabis arrived in Mozambique, with one recurring theory being that it was introduced from India either by Arab traders or by Portuguese merchants. In the 1580s Portuguese Dominican missionary João dos Santos noted that cannabis was used in Mozambique to suppress hunger.\n\nAside from indigenous production, Mozambique also serves as a transit point for cannabis and hashish smuggled from Pakistan and Afghanistan to Africa, and on to Europe and Canada.\n\nThe Portuguese-Mozambican journalist Carlos Cardoso (d. 2000) proposed that Mozambique legalize cannabis, both for industrial use, and for export to the Netherlands.\n"}
{"id": "2010793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010793", "title": "Ceiling effect (statistics)", "text": "Ceiling effect (statistics)\n\nThe ceiling effect is observed when an independent variable no longer has an effect on a dependent variable, or the level above which variance in an independent variable is no longer measurable. The specific application varies slightly in differentiating between two areas of use for this term: pharmacological or statistical. An example of use in the first area, a ceiling effect in treatment, is pain relief by some kinds of analgesic drugs, which have no further effect on pain above a particular dosage level (see also: ceiling effect in pharmacology). An example of use in the second area, a ceiling effect in data-gathering, is a survey that groups all respondents into income categories, not distinguishing incomes of respondents above the highest level measured in the survey instrument. The maximum income level able to be reported creates a “ceiling” that results in measurement inaccuracy, as the dependent variable range is not inclusive of the true values above that point. The ceiling effect can occur any time a measure involves a set range in which a normal distribution predicts multiple scores at or above the maximum value for the dependent variable.\n\nA ceiling effect in data-gathering, when variance in a dependent variable is not measured or estimated above a certain level, is a commonly encountered practical issue in gathering data in many scientific disciplines. Such an effect is often the result of constraints on data-gathering instruments. When a ceiling effect occurs in data-gathering, there is a bunching of scores at the upper level reported by an instrument.\n\nResponse bias occurs commonly in research regarding issues that may have ethical bases or are generally perceived as having negative connotations. Participants may fail to respond to a measure appropriately based on whether they believe the accurate response is viewed negatively. A population survey about lifestyle variables influencing health outcomes might include a question about smoking habits. To guard against the possibility that a respondent who is a heavy smoker might decline to give an accurate response about smoking, the highest level of smoking asked about in the survey instrument might be \"two packs a day or more.\" This results in a ceiling effect in that persons who smoke three packs or more a day are not distinguished from persons who smoke exactly two packs. A population survey about income similarly might have a highest response level of \"$100,000 per year or more,\" rather than including higher income ranges, as respondents might decline to answer at all if the survey questions identify their income too specifically. This too results in a ceiling effect, not distinguishing persons who have an income of $500,000 per year or higher from those whose income is exactly $100,000 per year. The role of response bias in causing ceiling effects is clearly seen through the example of survey respondents believing the desirable response to be the maximum reportable value, resulting in a clustering of data points. The attempted prevention of response bias, in the case of the smoking habit survey, leads to ceiling effects through the basic design of the measure.\n\nThe range of data that can be gathered by a particular instrument may be constrained by inherent limits in the instrument's design. Often design of a particular instrument involves trade-offs between ceiling effects and floor effects. If a dependent variable measured on a nominal scale does not have response categories that appropriately cover the upper end of the sample’s distribution, the maximum value response will have to include all values above the end of the scale. This will result in a ceiling effect due to the grouping of respondents into the single maximum category, which prevents an accurate representation of the deviation beyond that point. This issue occurs in many types of surveys that use pre-determined bracket-style responses. When many subjects have scores on a variable at the upper limit of what an instrument reports, data analysis provides inaccurate information because some actual variation in the data is not reflected in the scores obtained from that instrument.\n\nA ceiling effect is said to occur when a high proportion of subjects in a study have maximum scores on the observed variable. This makes discrimination among subjects among the top end of the scale impossible. For example, an examination paper may lead to, say, 50% of the students scoring 100%. While such a paper may serve as a useful threshold test, it does not allow ranking of the top performers. For this reason, examination of test results for a possible ceiling effect, and the converse floor effect, is often built into the validation of instruments such as those used for measuring quality of life.\n\nIn such a case, the ceiling effect keeps the instrument from noting a measurement or estimate higher than some limit not related to the phenomenon being observed, but rather related to the design of the instrument. A crude example would be measuring the heights of trees with a ruler only 20 meters in length, if it is apparent on the basis of other evidence that there are trees much taller than 20 meters. Using the 20-meter ruler as the sole means of measuring trees would impose a ceiling on gathering data about tree height. Ceiling effects and floor effects both limit the range of data reported by the instrument, reducing variability in the gathered data. Limited variability in the data gathered on one variable may reduce the power of statistics on correlations between that variable and another variable.\n\nIn the various countries that use admission tests as the main element or an important element for determining eligibility for college or university study, the data gathered relates to the differing levels of performance of applicants on the tests. When a college admission test has a maximum possible score that can be attained without perfect performance on the test's item content, the test's scoring scale has a ceiling effect. Moreover, if the test's item content is easy for many test-takers, the test may not reflect actual differences in performance (as would be detected with other instruments) among test-takers at the high end of the test performance range. Mathematics tests used for college admission in the United States and similar tests used for university admission in Britain illustrate both phenomena.\n\nIn cognitive psychology, mental processes such as problem solving and memorization are studied experimentally by using operational definitions that allow for clear measurements. A common measurement of interest is the time taken to respond to a given stimulus. In studying this variable, a ceiling may be the lowest possible number (the fewest milliseconds to a response), rather than the highest value, as is the usual interpretation of \"ceiling\". In response time studies, it may appear that a ceiling had occurred in the measurements due to an apparent clustering around some minimum amount of time (such as the fastest time recorded in an experiment). However, this clustering could actually represent a natural physiological limit of response time, rather than an artifact of the stopwatch sensitivity (which of course would be a ceiling effect). Further statistical study, and scientific judgment, can resolve whether or not the observations are due to a ceiling or are the truth of the matter.\n\nSome authors on gifted education write about ceiling effects in IQ testing having negative consequences on individuals. Those authors sometimes claim such ceilings produce systematic underestimation of the IQs of intellectually gifted people. In this case, it is necessary to distinguish carefully two different ways the term \"ceiling\" is used in writings about IQ testing.\n\nThe ceilings of IQ subtests are imposed by their ranges of progressively more difficult items. An IQ test with a wide range of progressively more difficult questions will have a higher ceiling than one with a narrow range and few difficult items. Ceiling effects result in an inability, first, to distinguish among the gifted (whether moderately gifted, profoundly gifted, etc.), and second, results in the erroneous classification of some gifted people as above average, but not gifted.\n\nSuppose that an IQ test has three subtests: vocabulary, arithmetic, and picture analogies. The scores on each of the subtests are normalized (see standard score) and then added together to produce a composite IQ score. Now suppose that Joe obtains the maximum score of 20 on the arithmetic test, but gets 10 out of 20 on the vocabulary and analogies tests. Is it fair to say that Joe's total score of 20+10+10, or 40, represents his total ability? The answer is no, because Joe achieved the maximum possible score of 20 on the arithmetic test. Had the arithmetic test included additional, more difficult items, Joe might have gotten 30 points on that subtest, producing a \"true\" score of 30+10+10 or 50. Compare Joe's performance with that of Jim, who scored 15+15+15 = 45, without running into any subtest ceilings. In the original formulation of the test, Jim did better than Joe (45 versus 40), whereas it is Joe who actually should have gotten the higher \"total\" intelligence score than Jim (score of 50 for Joe versus 45 for Jim) using a reformulated test that includes more difficult arithmetic items.\n\nWritings on gifted education bring up two reasons for supposing that some IQ scores are underestimates of a test-taker's intelligence:\n\nCeiling effects on measurement compromise scientific truth and understanding through a number of related statistical aberrations.\n\nFirst, ceilings impair the ability of investigators to determine the central tendency of the data. When a ceiling effect relates to data gathered on a dependent variable, failure to recognize that ceiling effect may \"lead to the mistaken conclusion that the independent variable has no effect.\" For mathematical reasons beyond the scope of this article (see analysis of variance), this inhibited variance reduces the sensitivity of scientific experiments designed to determine if the average of one group is significantly different from the average of another group. For example, a treatment given to one group may produce an effect, but the effect may escape detection because the mean of the treated group won't look different enough from the mean of the untreated group.\n\nThus \"ceiling effects are a complex of matters and their avoidance a matter of careful evaluation of a range of issues.\"\n\nBecause ceiling effects prevent accurate interpretation of data, it is important to attempt preventing the effects from occurring or using the presence of the effects to adjust the instrument and procedures that were used. Researchers may try to prevent ceiling effects from occurring using a number of methods. The first of which is choosing a previously validated measure by reviewing past research. If no validated measures exist, pilot testing may be conducted using the proposed methods. Pilot testing, or conducting a pilot experiment, involves a small-scale trial of instruments and procedures prior to the actual experiment, allowing for the recognition that adjustments should be made for the most efficient and accurate data collection. If researchers are using a design that is not previously validated, a combination of surveys, involving that originally-proposed and another supported by past literature, may be used to assess for the presence of ceiling effects. If any research, especially the pilot study, shows a ceiling effect, efforts should be made to adjust the instrument so that the effect may be mitigated and informative research can be conducted.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1916689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916689", "title": "Chemical accident", "text": "Chemical accident\n\nA chemical accident is the unintentional release of one or more hazardous substances which could harm human health or the environment. Chemical hazards are systems where chemical accidents could occur under certain circumstances. Such events include fires, explosions, leakages or release of toxic or hazardous materials that can \ncause people illness, injury, or disability. \n\nWhile chemical accidents may occur whenever toxic materials are stored, transported or used, the most severe accidents are industrial accidents, involving major chemical manufacturing and storage facilities. The most significant chemical accident in recorded history was the 1984 Bhopal disaster in India, in which more than 3,000 people had died after a highly toxic vapour, (methyl isocyanate), was released at a Union Carbide Pesticides factory.\n\nEfforts to prevent accidents range from improved safety systems to fundamental changes in chemical use and manufacture, referred to as primary prevention or inherent safety.\n\nIn the United States, concern about chemical accidents after the Bhopal disaster led to the passage of the 1986 Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act. The EPCRA requires local emergency planning efforts throughout the country, including emergency notifications. The law also requires companies to make publicly available information about their storage of toxic chemicals. Based on such information, citizens can identify the vulnerable zones in which severe toxic releases could cause harm or death.\n\nIn 1990, the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board was established by Congress, though the CSB did not become operational until 1998. The Board's mission is to determine the root causes of chemical accidents and issue safety recommendations to prevent future Safety Performance Indicators. It also organizes workshops on a number of issues related to preparing for, preventing, and responding to chemical accidents.\n\nIn the European Union, incidents such as the Flixborough disaster and the Seveso disaster led to legislation such as the Seveso Directive and Seveso planning and provide for safety reports to local authorities. Many countries have organisations that can assist with substance risk assessment and emergency planning that is required by a wide variety of legislation, such as the National Chemical Emergency Centre in the UK, Brandweerinformatiecentrum voor gevaarlijke stoffen/Fire service information centre for dangerous goods in Belgium. \n\nIn the UK, the UK Chemical Reaction Hazards Forum publishes reports of accidents on its web site. These accidents were, at the time, minor in nature, but they could have escalated into major accidents. It is hoped that publishing these incidents will prevent \"Re-inventing the Wheel\". At present, (Dec 2008), there are over 140 articles on the web site.\n\n"}
{"id": "1336603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1336603", "title": "Clinical pharmacology", "text": "Clinical pharmacology\n\nClinical pharmacology is the science of drugs and their clinical use. It is underpinned by the basic science of pharmacology, with an added focus on the application of pharmacological principles and quantitative methods in the real world. It has a broad scope, from the discovery of new target molecules to the effects of drug usage in whole populations.\n\nClinical pharmacology connects the gap between medical practice and laboratory science. The main objective is to promote the safety of prescription, maximize the drug effects and minimize the side effects. It is important that there be an association with pharmacists skilled in areas of drug information, medication safety and other aspects of pharmacy practice related to clinical pharmacology. In fact, in countries such as USA, Netherlands, and France, pharmacists train to become clinical pharmacologists. Therefore, clinical pharmacology is not specific to medicine.\n\nClinical pharmacologists usually have a rigorous medical and scientific training that enables them to evaluate evidence and produce new data through well-designed studies. Clinical pharmacologists must have access to enough outpatients for clinical care, teaching and education, and research as well as be supervised by medical specialists. Their responsibilities to patients include, but are not limited to, analyzing adverse drug effects, therapeutics, and toxicology including reproductive toxicology, cardiovascular risks, perioperative drug management and psychopharmacology.\n\nIn addition, the application of genetic, biochemical, or virotherapeutic techniques has led to a clear appreciation of the mechanisms involved in drug action.\n\nA bachelor's degree, in a clinical, health science or bioscience related field is typically required for enrolment on a master's degree level course in pharmacology. Institutions may also hold specific coursework and credit requirements for enrolment on advanced degrees in pharmacology. \n\nClinical Pharmacology consists of multiple branches listed below:\n\nMedicinal applications of plant and animal resources have been common since prehistoric times. Many countries have written documentation of their early traditional remedies of many types, like China, Egypt and India. Some of these remedies are still identified as helpful in today's society, but most have them have been discarded due to the fact that they were useless and potentially harmful. During the 1500s, intermittent attempts were made to advance the methods of medicine. Schools were made to teach these advances, but none of these methods were effective and this led to the domination of thought that claimed to explain everything in regards to biology and disease with no experimentation to back it up. These schools would come up with strange methods that they believed were the answers to disease and injury. They thought that a wound could be healed if an ointment was applied to the weapon, and that disease was caused by having too much bile and blood in the human body.\n\nAround the 17th century, theoretical medicine was set aside and forgotten about, and people started to use medicine that was based on analysis and experimentation. Physicians began to apply these new methods to the traditional drugs and remedies that they had in their own culture. This is when the sciences of the preparation and use of medical drugs began to develop, although they still lacked methods to test some of the hypotheses they had about how drugs worked in the body.\n\nBy the late 18th century and early 19th century, the development of the methods of experimental physiology and pharmacology by François Magendie and his student Claude Bernard.\n\nFrom the late 18th century to the early 20th century, advances were made in chemistry and physiology that laid the foundation that was needed in order to understand drugs at the organ and tissue level. The advances that were made at this time gave manufacturers the ability to make and sell medicine that they claimed to be legitimate but were worthless. These claims were not able to be evaluated until the rational therapeutic concepts were reestablished in medicine about 60 years later.\n\nAround that same time, major development and growth in biology began. Information started to pile up on biological substrates and drug movements as soon as new techniques and concepts arose. During the last half century, many new and some old drug groups were introduced. There has been even more rapid growth in even the last three decades, with understanding the bases of drug action at a molecular level. This new information has helped to identify the molecular mechanisms of many dugs and separate receptors and clone them. These methods aided in the many discoveries dealing with receptors.\n\nThe expansion of scientific principles of pharmacology is still on-going today.\n\n"}
{"id": "15944251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15944251", "title": "Cobalt poisoning", "text": "Cobalt poisoning\n\nCobalt poisoning is intoxication caused by excessive levels of cobalt in the body. Cobalt is an essential element for health in animals in minute amounts as a component of Vitamin B. A deficiency of cobalt, which is very rare, is also potentially lethal, leading to pernicious anemia.\n\nExposure to cobalt metal dust is most common in the fabrication of tungsten carbide. Another potential source is wear and tear of metal-on-metal hip prostheses.\n\nThe value for soluble cobalt salts has been estimated to be between 150 and 500 mg/kg. Thus, for a 100 kg person the LD would be about 20 grams.\n\nIn August 1965, a patient presented to a hospital in Quebec City with symptoms suggestive of alcoholic cardiomyopathy. Over the next 8 months 50 more cases with similar findings appeared in the same area with 20 of these being fatal. It was noted that all patients were heavy drinkers who mostly drank beer and preferred the Dow brand, 30 out of those consuming more than 6 liters (12 pints) of beer per day. Epidemiological studies found that Dow had been adding cobalt sulfate to the beer for foam stability since July 1965 and that the concentration added in the Quebec city brewery was 10 times that of the same beer brewed in Montreal where there were no reported cases.\n\nPlants, animals, and humans can all be affected by high cobalt concentrations in the environment. For plants, the uptake and distribution of cobalt is entirely species specific. In some species of plants, the over accumulation of cobalt can lead to an iron deficiency. This in turn leads to poor growth of the plant as well as leaf loss which overall decreases the amount of oxygen produced by plants during photosynthesis. Eventually the deficiency would lead to plant death. One such example was seen in an experiment involving the effects of increased cobalt concentration on tomato plants. As the dosage of cobalt in the soil surrounding the plants increased, so too did the rate of necrosis of the leaves of the tomato plant. Over time this led to an inability of the plant to produce fruit and eventually the plant died.\n"}
{"id": "19379442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19379442", "title": "Companion (caregiving)", "text": "Companion (caregiving)\n\nIn health care and caregiving, a companion, sitter, or private duty may be a nursing assistant or similar professional who is hired to work with one patient (or occasionally two). Companions may be hired to work in a variety of settings, including nursing homes, assisted living facilities, hospitals, and private homes, and their duties range from advanced medical care to simple companionship and observation.\n\nIn hospitals, sitters are hired by the hospital for patients who cannot remain unsupervised for even a short period of time. These include patients who are at risk for injury to themselves or others due to disorientation or combativeness, those whose vital signs are severely unstable, or those who have been observed attempting suicide (known as a \"suicide watch\").\n\nCompanions performing suicide watches also work in mental institutions. In some facilities, this is referred to as intense suicide observation (ISO) or \"intense suicide watch.\"\n\nIn a nursing home or assisted living facility, a companion or sitter is often hired by the resident or his/her family to provide personal care to the patient at a level that cannot be provided by the facility's nursing staff, in which each member is responsible for a much larger number of patients. These private duty nurses and aides may provide more immediate and detailed service, whereas facility staff can only reach the patient in turn and provide less frequent, rudimentary care. Companions in nursing homes also provide social companionship.\n\nNursing homes, like hospitals, sometimes hire sitters to watch patients who are at risk for injury to themselves or suicide.\n\nAn aide providing care to one or more persons in a private home is generally referred to as a home health aide.\n\nCompanions are sometimes hired to provide only chores within a household, such as basic-level cooking, cleaning, or in some cases, nothing more than supervision or social interaction without providing any hands-on care.\n\nCompanions are sometimes directly hired privately by clients or their families. In many cases, clients or their families obtain companion care services by utilizing the services of in-home care companies. Some in-home care companies act as the employer of the caregivers that they send out to clients' homes. Other in-home care companies take the approach that the caregivers are not employees of the companies, and instead may be independent contractors or employees of the clients, depending upon the degree of supervision and control exercised by the clients or their families over the caregivers' activities and tasks.\n\nIn the United States, the laws regulating companion care in private homes vary from state to state. Some states, such as Tennessee, require home care companies. Others do not. California currently does not provide any licensing nor any consumer protection regulatory oversight over in-home care companies unless those companies are also licensed as \"home health agencies\" that are specifically licensed to provide skilled nursing care in patients' homes.\n\n"}
{"id": "3821985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3821985", "title": "Complex training", "text": "Complex training\n\nComplex training, also known as contrast training or post-activation potentiation training, involves the integration of strength training and plyometrics in a training system designed to improve explosive power. According to Jace Derwin: \n\nComplex training relies upon the performance of a strength exercise, often resistance based, followed by a plyometric exercise. The strength and the plyometric exercise are usually biomechanically similar i.e. they move through similar ranges of movement. For example, a back squat followed by a box jump; or a bench press exercise followed by a jumping clap push up. Such a combination is referred to as a pair or a contrast pair. The resistance based exercise will often be a near maximal effort- about 75-90% of the athlete's maximal lift. The plyometric portion of the training should be completed in an explosive manner. Sets are often used. Between the performance of the strength exercise and the plyometric exercise there is between a 3-12 minute rest period; opinions vary on the most efficient length. As the muscles have been intensely activated by the strength exercise, this develops in the muscles a greater potential to apply force than they would have normally. This added potential to apply force is called post-activation potentiation (PAP). It is the fundamental basis of complex training. This potential to apply force, generated by the strength exercise, is utilised by the athlete in the plyometric exercise to boost their power output to a level greater than it otherwise would have been had they been doing plyometrics alone. In this way, the plyometric exercise can be performed more powerfully. For instance, an athlete may jump higher after they have completed a back squat at 90% maximal lift, had a rest for 3-12 minutes, and then jumped; as opposed to only jumping, where they would not get this improvement. The length of the rest period is chosen to be long enough to allow the athlete to recover after the strength exercise, whilst also being short enough to allow for the high degree of muscle activation to be utilised in the plyometric exercise. \n\nBy integrating plyometrics with strength training, there is an added benefit of improving rate of force, the speed with which force is achieved in movement.\n\nThe ambition in a complex training regime is not just to achieve better results in an individual workout but also to condition the athlete so they can perform more powerfully as a standard. Such an improvement again relies upon what Donald Chu calls the ‘neuromuscular connection’. That is the relationship between the intense activation of the nervous system and enhanced fast-twitch muscle fibre recruitment. However, in terms of long term training effects there is an added dynamic. And that is the conditioning of the body to adjust muscle fibres from slow to fast-twitch; thereby increasing the number of fast-twitch muscle fibres available for recruitment and with which to help power a given movement. \n\nSuch a process is also referred to as muscle fibre type shifting. It is also often discussed in regard to converting muscle fibre types IIa to type IIb. Different training regimes can stimulate different muscle fibre type adaptions. For instance, as a result of their training body builders have a tendency to have relatively more type IIa muscle fibres which allow for forceful, but relatively slow movements. Whereas sprinters, as a result of their training, may have a larger amount of type IIb muscle fibres allowing for forceful, and relatively fast movements. Generally, the aim of complex training is to stimulate the athlete to develop more type IIb muscle fibres. This allows for their strength to be expressed quickly, which means greater power generation. \n\nIn regard to the apparent conversion of type I to type II fibres through training, leading experts attest that this is in actual fact the alteration of the muscle fibres size and ability to produce force; the percentage of fibres that are type I or type II does not change:\n\nIn the context of rock climbing, and an isometric exercise preceding a plyometric one, Steve Maisch considers that one of the training goals of complex training is to operate at a level of fatigue thereby encouraging the body to learn to recruit from a wider range of muscle fibres in order to be able to apply the appropriate power. Thus, over a period of training, increasing the system strength and power output of the athlete as their body has learnt to recruit a larger number of muscle fibres.\n\nStudies on the effectiveness of complex training often last between 4 to 12 weeks and measure such abilities as vertical jump height and sprinting speed. Complex training often compares favourably to resistance only and plyometric only training programmes. There is apparently little information on longer term effects.\n\n\nThere are numerous variations of complex training. The common set up is designed to stimulate maximum neural engagement and muscle fibre recruitment in a first exercise, either resistance or isometric, before following it up with the performance of a second exercise which is performed at significantly increased speed. The second exercise can often be categorised as being either plyometric or ballistic. It is designed to both utilise the PAP effect from the first exercise whilst also further increasing neural activation and muscle fibre recruitment. As a result, this enhances the athlete’s ability to move powerfully. \n\nComplex training can be used by combat athletes such as boxers and martial artists in order to improve their performance. For instance, boxers may use complex training in order to increase their punching power. This may involve some sport specific variations, such as the plyometric segment of the training being punching. For example, a boxer may use a cable pulley machine to add resistance to their punches, have a rest for somewhere between 30-240 seconds, and then practice explosive punching without any resistance on a punchbag. \n\nA version of complex training can be used in weight lifting; it is also referred to as contrast loading. A heavy set of lifting is followed by a lighter set of lifting; both sets should be performed in an explosive manner. The increased activation of the nervous system and recruitment of muscle fibres in the heavy set allows for the lighter set to be performed in a more powerful and explosive manner.\nWeight lifting can effectively demonstrate the effects of post-activation potentiation. For example, if a person lifts a light weight, and then lifts a heavy weight, before lifting the light weight again, the light weight will be relatively easier to lift and feel lighter the second time it has been lifted. Because the intense activation of the nervous system and correspondent recruitment of muscle fibres which occurred in conjunction with the heavy lift has allowed the person to perform more powerful movements, and the weight therefore feels relatively lighter. Another resistance based explanation involves the example of heavy suitcase, light suitcase i.e. after lifting a heavy suitcase, a person lifts a similar size, but light suitcase with no idea what is in it; as the person has just been carrying a heavy suitcase, their level of power application is well in excess of what is required to lift the light suitcase and it flies off the floor.\n\nComplex training may be utilised by rock climbers in order to develop their ability to apply power quickly either in terms of dynamic movement or in the securing of holds. A complex training programme for rock climbers may be very sports specific. Notably, the first resistance exercise is often, but not necessarily, replaced with an isometric exercise or hold, before being followed by a dynamic power exercise. For instance, weighted dead hangs followed by doubles on the campus board. Whilst this is a sports specific variation, the underlying ambition is the same as with other forms of complex training; to maximally stimulate the nervous system whilst increasingly recruiting fast-twitch muscle fibres in order to improve the ability to apply power.\n\n"}
{"id": "188222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=188222", "title": "Cyst", "text": "Cyst\n\nA cyst is a closed sac, having a distinct membrane and division compared with the nearby tissue. Hence, it is a cluster of cells that has grouped together to form a sac (not unlike the manner in which water molecules group together, forming a bubble); however, the distinguishing aspect of a cyst is that the cells forming the \"shell\" of such a sac are distinctly abnormal (in both appearance and behaviour) when compared with all surrounding cells for that given location. It may contain air, fluids, or semi-solid material. A collection of pus is called an abscess, not a cyst. Once formed, sometimes a cyst may resolve on its own. When a cyst fails to resolve, it may need to be removed surgically, but that would depend upon its type and location.\n\nCancer-related cysts are formed as a defense mechanism for the body, following the development of mutations that lead to an uncontrolled cellular division. Once that mutation has occurred, the affected cells divide incessantly (and become known as cancerous), forming a tumour. The body encapsulates those cells to try to prevent them from continuing their division and to try to contain the tumour, which becomes known as a cyst. That said, the cancerous cells still may mutate further and gain the ability to form their own blood vessels, from which they receive nourishment before being contained. Once that happens, the capsule becomes useless and the tumour may advance from benign to a cancer.\n\nSome cysts are neoplastic and thus, are called cystic tumors; many types are not neoplastic. Some are dysplastic or metaplastic. Pseudocysts are similar to cysts (having a sac filled with fluid), but lack an epithelial lining.\n\nA small cyst that requires magnification to be seen, may be called a microcyst. Similarly, a cyst that is larger than usual or compared to others, may be called a macrocyst.\n\n\nThe aneurysmal bone cyst is a neoplastic cyst, more specifically, an aggressive lesion with radiographic cystic appearance.\n\nDespite being described in 1938 as the microscopic appearance of cysts in the pancreas, cystic fibrosis is an example of a genetic disorder whose name is related to fibrosis of the cystic duct (which serves the gallbladder) and does not involve cysts.\n\nThis is just one example of how the Greek root \"cyst-\", which simply means a fluid-filled sac, also is found in medical terms that relate to the urinary bladder and the gallbladder, neither of which involve cysts.\n\nExamples of neoplastic cysts include:\n\nTreatment ranges from simple enucleation of the cyst to curettage to resection. There are cysts—e.g., buccal bifurcation cyst—that resolve on their own, in which just close observation may be employed, unless it is infected and symptomatic.\n\nA pseudocyst is similar collection without a distinct membrane.\n\nA syrinx in the spinal cord or brainstem is sometimes inaccurately referred to as a cyst.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33145590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33145590", "title": "DCAP-BTLS", "text": "DCAP-BTLS\n\nDCAP-BTLS is an mnemonic acronym to remember specific soft tissue injuries to look for during a person's assessment after a traumatic injury. This is a key component during a rapid trauma assessment.\n\nThe parts of the mnemonic are:\n\n"}
{"id": "6090406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6090406", "title": "Delirium tremens", "text": "Delirium tremens\n\nDelirium tremens (DTs) is a rapid onset of confusion usually caused by withdrawal from alcohol. When it occurs, it is often three days into the withdrawal symptoms and lasts for two to three days. Physical effects may include shaking, shivering, irregular heart rate, and sweating. People may also see or hear things other people do not. Occasionally, a very high body temperature or seizures may result in death. Alcohol is one of the most dangerous drugs from which to withdraw.\nDelirium tremens typically only occurs in people with a high intake of alcohol for more than a month. A similar syndrome may occur with benzodiazepine and barbiturate withdrawal. Withdrawal from stimulants such as cocaine does not have major medical complications. In a person with delirium tremens it is important to rule out other associated problems such as electrolyte abnormalities, pancreatitis, and alcoholic hepatitis.\nPrevention is by treating withdrawal symptoms. If delirium tremens occurs, aggressive treatment improves outcomes. Treatment in a quiet intensive care unit with sufficient light is often recommended. Benzodiazepines are the medication of choice with diazepam, lorazepam, chlordiazepoxide, and oxazepam all commonly used. They should be given until a person is lightly sleeping. The antipsychotic haloperidol may also be used. The vitamin thiamine is recommended. Mortality without treatment is between 15% and 40%. Currently death occurs in about 1% to 4% of cases.\nAbout half of people with alcoholism will develop withdrawal symptoms upon reducing their use. Of these, three to five percent develop DTs or have seizures. The name delirium tremens was first used in 1813; however, the symptoms were well described since the 1700s. The word \"delirium\" is Latin for \"going off the furrow,\" a plowing metaphor. It is also called shaking frenzy and Saunders-Sutton syndrome. Nicknames include the shakes, barrel-fever, blue horrors, bottleache, bats, drunken horrors, elephants, gallon distemper, quart mania, and pink spiders, among others.\n\nThe main symptoms of delirium tremens are nightmares, agitation, global confusion, disorientation, visual and auditory hallucinations, tactile hallucinations, fever, high blood pressure, heavy sweating, and other signs of autonomic hyperactivity (fast heart rate and high blood pressure). These symptoms may appear suddenly, but typically develop two to three days after the stopping of heavy drinking, being worst on the fourth or fifth day. Also, these \"symptoms are characteristically worse at night\". In general, DT is considered the most severe manifestation of alcohol withdrawal and occurs 3–10 days following the last drink. Other common symptoms include intense perceptual disturbance such as visions of insects, snakes, or rats. These may be hallucinations or illusions related to the environment, e.g., patterns on the wallpaper or in the peripheral vision that the patient falsely perceives as a resemblance to the morphology of an insect, and are also associated with tactile hallucinations such as sensations of something crawling on the subject—a phenomenon known as formication. Delirium tremens usually includes extremely intense feelings of \"impending doom\". Severe anxiety and feelings of imminent death are common DT symptoms.\n\nDT can sometimes be associated with severe, uncontrollable tremors of the extremities and secondary symptoms such as anxiety, panic attacks and paranoia. Confusion is often noticeable to onlookers as those with DT will have trouble forming simple sentences or making basic logical calculations.\n\nDT should be distinguished from alcoholic hallucinosis, the latter of which occurs in approximately 20% of hospitalized alcoholics and does not carry a significant mortality. In contrast, DT occurs in 5–10% of alcoholics and carries up to 15% mortality with treatment and up to 35% mortality without treatment. DT is characterized by the presence of altered sensorium; that is, a complete hallucination without any recognition of the real world. DT has extreme autonomic hyperactivity (high pulse, blood pressure, and rate of breathing), and 35-60% of patients have a fever. Some patients experience seizures.\n\nDelirium tremens is mainly caused by a long period of drinking being stopped abruptly. Withdrawal leads to a biochemical regulation cascade. It may also be triggered by head injury, infection, or illness in people with a history of heavy use of alcohol.\n\nAnother cause of delirium tremens is abrupt stopping of tranquilizer drugs of the barbiturate or benzodiazepine classes in a person with a relatively strong addiction to them. Because these tranquilizers' primary pharmacological and physiological effects stem from their manipulation of the GABA chemical and transmitter somatic system, the same neurotransmitter system affected by alcohol, delirium tremens can occur upon abrupt decrease of dosage in those who are heavily dependent. These DTs are much the same as those caused by alcohol and so is the attendant withdrawal syndrome of which they are a manifestation. That is the primary reason benzodiazepines are such an effective treatment for DTs, despite also being the cause of them in many cases. Because ethanol and tranquilizers such as barbiturates and benzodiazepines function as positive allosteric modulators at GABA receptors, the brain, in its desire to equalize an unbalanced chemical system, triggers the abrupt stopping of the production of endogenous GABA. This decrease becomes more and more marked as the addiction becomes stronger and as higher doses are needed to cause intoxication. In addition to having sedative properties, GABA is an immensely important regulatory neurotransmitter that controls the heart rate, blood pressure, and seizure threshold among myriad other important autonomic nervous subsystems.\n\nDelirium tremens is most common in people who have a history of alcohol withdrawal, especially in those who drink the equivalent of of beer or of distilled beverage daily. Delirium tremens also commonly affects those with a history of habitual alcohol use or alcoholism that has existed for more than 10 years.\n\nDelirium tremens is a component of alcohol withdrawal hypothesized to be the result of compensatory changes in response to chronic alcohol abuse. Alcohol positively allosterically modulates the binding of GABA, resulting in disinhibition of neurons projecting into the nucleus accumbens, as well as inhibiting NMDA receptors. This combined with desensitization of alpha-2 adrenergic receptors, results in a homeostatic upregulation of these systems in chronic alcohol use. When alcohol use ceases, the unregulated mechanisms result in hyperexcitability of neurons as natural GABAergic systems are down-regulated and excitatory glutamatergic systems are unregulated. This combined with increased noradrenergic activity results in the symptoms of delirium tremens.\n\nDiagnosis is mainly based on symptoms. In a person with delirium tremens it is important to rule out other associated problems such as electrolyte abnormalities, pancreatitis, and alcoholic hepatitis.\n\nDelirium tremens due to alcohol withdrawal can be treated with benzodiazepines. High doses may be necessary to prevent death. Amounts given are based on the symptoms. Typically the person is kept sedated with benzodiazepines, such as diazepam, lorazepam, chlordiazepoxide, or oxazepam.\n\nIn some cases antipsychotics, such as haloperidol may also be used. Older drugs such as paraldehyde and clomethiazole were formerly the traditional treatment but have now largely been superseded by the benzodiazepines.\n\nAcamprosate is occasionally used in addition to other treatments, and is then carried on into long-term use to reduce the risk of relapse. If status epilepticus occurs it is treated in the usual way. It can also be helpful to control environmental stimuli, by providing a well-lit but relaxing environment for minimizing distress and visual hallucinations.\n\nAlcoholic beverages can also be prescribed as a treatment for delirium tremens, but this practice is not universally supported.\n\nHigh doses of thiamine often by the intravenous route is also recommended.\n\nNicknames include \"the horrors\", \"the shakes\", \"the bottleache\", \"quart mania\", \"ork orks\", \"gallon distemper\", \"the zoots\", \"barrel fever\", \"the 750 itch\", \"pint paralysis\", seeing pink elephants. Another nickname is \"the Brooklyn Boys\" found in Eugene O'Neill's one-act play \"Hughie\" set\nIn 1920's Times Square.\n\nWriter Jack Kerouac details his experiences with delirium tremens in his book \"Big Sur\".\n\nOne of the characters in Joseph Conrad's novel \"Lord Jim\" experiences \"DTs of the worst kind\" with symptoms that include seeing millions of pink frogs.\n\nIn the 1945 film \"The Lost Weekend\", Ray Milland won the Academy Award for Best Actor for his depiction of a character who experiences delirium tremens after being hospitalized, hallucinating that he saw a bat fly in and eat a mouse poking through a wall.\n\nAmerican writer Mark Twain describes an episode of delirium tremens in his book \"The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn\" (1884). In Chapter 6, Huck states about his father, \"After supper pap took the jug, and said he had enough whisky there for two drunks and one delirium tremens. That was always his word.\" Subsequently, Pap Finn runs around with hallucinations of snakes and chases Huck around their cabin with a knife in an attempt to kill him, thinking Huck is the \"Angel of Death.\"\n\nThe M*A*S*H (TV series) episode \"Bottoms Up\" (Season 9, Episode 15) featured a side story about a nurse (Cpt. Helen Whitfield) who was found to be drinking heavily off-duty. By the culmination of the episode, after a confrontation by Maj. Margaret Houlihan, the character swears off her alcoholism and presumably quits immediately. At mealtime, an unspecified time later (roughly 48 hours, according to Maj. Houlihan), Whitfield becomes hysterical upon being served food in the Mess tent, claiming that there are things crawling onto her from it. Margaret and Col. Sherman Potter subdue her. Potter, having recognized the symptoms of delirium tremens (which he abbreviates \"the DTs\"), orders 5 ml of Paraldehyde from a witnessing nurse.\n\nRussian composer Modest Mussorgsky died of delirium tremens.\n"}
{"id": "44582444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44582444", "title": "Electrovite", "text": "Electrovite\n\nElectrovite is manufactured by Dominion Veterinary Laboratories (DVL) Inc., based in Winnipeg, Manitoba. The company is Western Canada's largest manufacturer and distributor of veterinary pharmaceuticals, and describes itself as a family business. DVL has export ties to Trinidad, the Middle East and South Korea and was a 1999 Canada Export Award recipient.\n\nElectrovite is a powder designed to alleviate physiological stress in cattle. It contains 8 vitamins: A, D3, E, B6, B12, folic acid (B9), ascorbic acid (vitamin C), along with a vitamin K derivative, menadione sodium bisulfite DVL adds these vitamins to an electrolyte premix that has 7 mineral salts: magnesium acetate, sodium acetate, calcium acetate, potassium chloride, calcium chloride, sodium chloride and sodium diacetate. DVL packages the product in 300 gram packs, sold for $5.31.\n\nBesides labor costs, the only cost consideration in the manufacture of the vitamins and salts is the prices of the raw chemicals. These raw materials include lemongrass oil, m-Cresol and ethyl acetylacetate.\n\nElectrolytes for cattle are part of a nutritional component known as the dietary electrolyte balance. Most causes of stress manifest as an imbalance of some kind in cattle's fluid stability. Electrolyte supplementation, as done with Electrovite, assists in maintaining electrolyte balance, and reduces the need for energy expenditure on the part of the animal to restore/self-regulate this balance. Besides the potential of electrolyte and vitamin solutions to alleviate stress, these additives may directly boost production. Even under stress conditions, supplementing diets with salts can stimulate feed intake. Hence, Electrovite would alleviate physiological stress and provide a boost to milk production.\n"}
{"id": "43263115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43263115", "title": "Federation of Clinical Immunology Societies", "text": "Federation of Clinical Immunology Societies\n\nThe Federation of Clinical Immunology Societies (FOCIS) was initially established as a cross-disciplinary meeting, holding its first Annual Meeting in 2001. It subsequently became a 501(c)3 organization in 2003. Its mission is to improve human health through immunology by fostering interdisciplinary approaches to both understand and treat immune-based diseases. FOCIS currently has 58 Member Societies, representing roughly 65,000 clinician scientists.\nIts member societies include: American Academy of Allergy, Asthma, and Immunology, British Society for Immunology, European Academy of Allergy and Clinical Immunology, European Society for Primary Immunodeficiencies, and World Allergy Organization\n"}
{"id": "31486890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31486890", "title": "German Hygiene Museum", "text": "German Hygiene Museum\n\nThe German Hygiene Museum () is a medical museum in Dresden, Germany. It conceives itself today as a \"forum for science, culture and society\". It is a popular venue for events and exhibitions, and is among the most visited museums in Dresden, with around 280,000 visitors per year.\n\nThe museum was founded in 1912 by Karl August Lingner, a Dresden businessman and manufacturer of hygiene products, as a permanent \"public venue for healthcare education\", following the first International Hygiene Exhibition in 1911.\n\nThe second International Hygiene Exhibition was held in 1930/31, in a building erected west of the Großer Garten park according to plans designed by Wilhelm Kreis, which became the museum's permanent home. One of the biggest attractions was, and remains, a transparent model of a human being, the \"Gläserner Mensch\" or \"Transparent Man\", of which many copies have subsequently been made for other museums.\n\nDuring the Third Reich the museum came under the influence of the Nazis, who used it to produce material propagandising their racial ideology and promoting eugenics. Various Nazi government offices relocated to the museum between 1933 and 1941, and the German Labour Front's \"Reichsberufswettkampf\" (National Vocational Competition) was held there in 1944. Large parts of the building and collection were destroyed by the bombing of Dresden in 1945.\n\nIn the East German period the museum resumed its role as a communicator of public health information. It produced a wide range of educational material, including short films on subjects such as smoking, breastfeeding, sexually transmitted diseases and teenage pregnancy. In 1988 the museum, working in co-operation with East German gay and lesbian activists, commissioned DEFA film studios to make the documentary film Die andere Liebe (English:\"The Other Love\"), the first East German film that dealt with the subject of homosexuality.\n\nFollowing German reunification the museum was reconceived and modernised, starting in 1991. In 2001 it was included in the German government's Blue Book, a list of around 20 so-called \"Cultural Lighthouses\" – cultural institutions of national importance in the former East Germany – in an association called the KNK. Between 2001 and 2005 the museum was renovated and partly rebuilt under the architect Peter Kulka.\n\nThe museum's permanent features are the exhibition \"Human Adventure\" (\"Abenteuer Mensch\"), covering the human race, the body, and health in its cultural and social contexts, and a children's museum of the senses.\n\nThe museum owns an extensive collection of around 45,000 items documenting the public promotion of bodily awareness and healthy day-to-day behaviour, mostly from the early 20th century onwards.\n\nThere is a regular program of temporary exhibitions on social or scientific issues. Recent examples have included \"Religious Energy\", \"What Is Beautiful?\" and \"War and Medicine\". The museum also organises scientific and cultural events, including talks, meetings, debates, readings, and concerts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13445768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13445768", "title": "IOLVIP", "text": "IOLVIP\n\nThe Intraocular Lens for Visually Impaired Patients (IOLVIP or IOL-VIP) is an intraocular lens system aiming to treat patients with poor central vision due to age related macular degeneration. The IOLVIP procedure involves the surgical implantation of a pair of lenses that magnify and divert the image using the principals of the Galilean telescope. By arranging the lenses it is possible to direct the image to a different part of the eye than the fovea, which is the centre of the macula and is usually used for detailed vision. The magnified image is projected on to a part of the eye not normally used for detailed vision. Magnification and patient training are both necessary to allow useful vision from this part of the retina.\n\nIt is a procedure to give symptomatic relief rather than treat disease and is best understood as an implanted miniature telescope.\n\nThe procedure was pioneered in Italy and has since been taken to the UK and USA. It should not be used in anyone with active (that is changing) macular degeneration. It can be used in both \"burned out\" wet macular degeneration and in dry or atrophic macular degeneration. A telescopic simulator can be used to assess whether the surgery might be helpful, and to establish the best rotation for the two lenses.\n\n"}
{"id": "6980583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6980583", "title": "International Commission on Radiological Protection", "text": "International Commission on Radiological Protection\n\nThe International Commission on Radiological Protection (ICRP) is an independent, international, non-governmental organization, with the mission to provide recommendations and guidance on radiation protection.\n\nIt was founded in 1928 at the second International Congress of Radiology in Stockholm, Sweden and was then called the International X-ray and Radium Protection Committee (IXRPC). In 1950 it was restructured to take account of new uses of radiation outside the medical area, and given its present name.\n\nThe ICRP is a sister organisation to the International Commission on Radiation Units and Measurements (ICRU). In general terms ICRU defines the units, and ICRP recommends, develops and maintains the International System of Radiological Protection which uses these units.\n\nThe ICRP is a not-for-profit organization registered as a charity in the United Kingdom and has its scientific secretariat in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.\n\nIt is an independent, international organization with more than two hundred volunteer members from approximately thirty countries on six continents, who represent the world's leading scientists and policy makers in the field of radiological protection.\n\nThe International System of Radiological Protection has been developed by ICRP based on the current understanding of the science of radiation exposures and effects, and value judgements. These value judgements take into account societal expectations, ethics, and experience gained in application of the system.\n\nThe work of the Commission centres on the operation of four main committees:\n\n\n\n\n\nSupporting these committees are Task Groups, established primarily to develop ICRP publications.\n\nThe ICRP's key output is the production of regular publications disseminating information and recommendations through the \"Annals of the ICRP\".\n\nThese are the main means of communicating progress by the ICRP in the form of technical presentations and reports from various committees, held approximately every two years since 2011.\n\nA year after Röntgen’s discovery of X-rays, the American engineer Wolfram Fuchs (1896) gave what is probably the first protection advice, but many early users of X-rays were initially unaware of the hazards and protection was rudimentary or non-existent.\n\nThe dangers of radioactivity and radiation were not immediately recognized. The discovery of x‑rays in 1895 led to widespread experimentation by scientists, physicians, and inventors. Many people began recounting stories of burns, hair loss and worse in technical journals as early as 1896. In February of that year, Professor Daniel and Dr. Dudley of Vanderbilt University performed an experiment involving x-raying Dudley's head that resulted in his hair loss. A report by Dr. H.D. Hawks, a graduate of Columbia College, of his suffering severe hand and chest burns in an x-ray demonstration, was the first of many other reports in \"Electrical Review\".\n\nMany experimenters including Elihu Thomson at Thomas Edison's lab, William J. Morton, and Nikola Tesla also reported burns. Elihu Thomson deliberately exposed a finger to an x-ray tube over a period of time and suffered pain, swelling, and blistering. Other effects, including ultraviolet rays and ozone were sometimes blamed for the damage. Many physicians claimed that there were no effects from x-ray exposure at all.\n\nIt was not until 1925 that the establishment of international radiation protection standards was discussed at the first International Congress of Radiology (ICR).\n\nThe second ICR was held in Stockholm in 1928 and ICRU proposed the adoption of the roentgen unit; and the ‘International X-ray and Radium Protection Committee’ (IXRPC) was formed. Rolf Sievert was named Chairman, but a driving force was George Kaye of the British National Physical Laboratory.\n\nThe committee met for just a day at each of the ICR meetings in Paris in 1931, Zurich in 1934, and Chicago in 1937. At the 1934 meeting in Zurich, the Commission was faced with undue membership interference. The hosts insisted on having four Swiss participants (out of a total of 11 members), and the German authorities replaced the Jewish German member with another of their choice. In response to this, the Commission decided on new rules in order to establish full control over its future membership.\n\nAfter World War II the increased range and quantity of radioactive substances being handled as a result of military and civil nuclear programmes led to large additional groups of occupational workers and the public being potentially exposed to harmful levels of ionising radiation.\n\nAgainst this background, the first post-war ICR convened in London in 1950, but only two IXRPC members had survived the war; Lauriston Taylor and Rolf Sievert. Taylor was invited to revive and revise the Commission, and the Commission was now given its present name: the International Commission on Radiological Protection (ICRP). Sievert remained an active member, Sir Ernest Rock Carling (UK) was appointed as Chairman, and Walter Binks (UK) took over as Scientific Secretary because of Taylor’s concurrent involvement with the sister organisation, ICRU.\n\nAt that meeting, six sub-committees were established on:\n\nThe next meeting was in 1956 in Geneva. This was the first time that a formal meeting of the Commission took place independently of the ICR. At this meeting, ICRP became formally affiliated with the World Health Organization (WHO) as a ‘participating non-governmental organisation’.\n\nIn 1959, a formal relationship was established with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), and subsequently with UNSCEAR, the International Labour Office (ILO), the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), and UNESCO.\n\nAt the meeting in Stockholm in May 1962, the Commission also decided to reorganise the committee system in order to improve productivity and four committees were created:\n\nAfter many assessments of committee roles within an environment of increasing workloads and changes in societal emphasis, by 2008 the committee structure had become:\n\nThe key output of the ICRP and its historic predecessor has been the issuing of recommendations in the form of reports and publications. The contents are made available for adoption by national regulatory bodies to the extent that they wish.\nEarly recommendations were general guides on exposure and thereby dose limits, and it was not until the nuclear era that a greater degree of sophistication was required.\n\nIn the \"1951 Recommendations\" the commission recommended a maximum permissible dose of 0.5 roentgen (0.0044 grays) in any 1 week in the case of whole-body exposure to X and gamma radiation at the surface, and 1.5 roentgen (0.013 grays) in any 1 week in the case of exposure of hands and forearms. Maximum permissible body burdens were given for 11 nuclides. At this time it was first stated that the purpose of radiological protection was that of avoiding deterministic effects from occupational exposures, and the principle of radiological protection was to keep individuals below the relevant thresholds.\n\nA first recommendation on restrictions of exposures of members of the general public appeared in the commission’s part of the 1954 Recommendations. It was also stated that ‘since no radiation level higher than the natural background can be regarded as absolutely \"safe\", the problem is to choose a practical level that, in the light of present knowledge, involves a negligible risk’. However, the Commission had not rejected the possibility of a threshold for stochastic effects. At this time the rad and rem were introduced for absorbed dose and RBE-weighted dose respectively.\n\nAt its 1956 meeting the concept of a controlled area and radiation safety officer were introduced, and the first specific advice was given for pregnant women.\n\nIn 1957, there was pressure on ICRP from both the World Health Organisation and UNSCEAR to reveal all of the decisions from its 1956 meeting in Geneva. The final document, the Commission’s 1958 Recommendations was the first ICRP report published by Pergamon Press. The 1958 Recommendations are usually referred to as ‘Publication 1’.\n\nThe significance of stochastic effects began to influence the commission’s policy and a new set of recommendations was published as Publication 9 in 1966. However, during development its editors became concerned about the many different opinions on the risk of stochastic effects. The Commission therefore asked a working group to consider these, and their report, Publication 8 (1966), for the first time for the ICRP summarised the current knowledge about radiation risks, both somatic and genetic. Publication 9 then followed, and substantially changed radiation protection emphasis by moving from deterministic to stochastic effects.\n\nIn 1977 Publication 26 set out the new system of dose limitation and introduced the three principles of protection:\n\n\nThese principles have since become known as justification, optimisation (as low as reasonably achievable), and the application of dose limits. The optimisation principle was introduced because of the need to find some way of balancing costs and benefits of the introduction of a radiation source involving ionising radiation or radionuclides.\n\nThe 1977 Recommendations were very concerned with the ethical basis of how to decide what is reasonably achievable in dose reduction. The principle of justification aims to do more good than harm, and that of optimisation aims to maximise the margin of good over harm for society as a whole. They therefore satisfy the utilitarian ethical principle proposed primarily by Jeremy Bentham and John Stuart Mill. Utilitarians judge actions by their overall consequences, usually by comparing, in monetary terms, the relevant benefits obtained by a particular protective measure with the net cost of introducing that measure.\n\nOn the other hand, the principle of applying dose limits aims to protect the rights of the individual not to be exposed to an excessive level of harm, even if this could cause great problems for society at large. This principle therefore satisfies the Deontological principle of ethics, proposed primarily by Immanuel Kant.\n\nConsequently the concept of the collective dose was introduced to facilitate cost–benefit analysis and to restrict the uncontrolled build-up of exposure to long-lived radio nuclides in the environment. With the global expansion of nuclear reactors and reprocessing it was feared global doses could again reach the levels seen from atmospheric testing of nuclear weapons. So, by 1977, the establishment of dose limits was secondary to the establishment of cost–benefit analysis and use of collective dose.\n\nDuring the 1980s, there were re-evaluations of the survivors of the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, partly due to revisions in the dosimetry. The risks of exposure were claimed to be higher than those used by ICRP, and pressures began to appear for a reduction in dose limits.\n\nBy 1989, the commission had itself revised upwards its estimates of the risks of carcinogenesis from exposure to ionising radiation. The following year, it adopted its 1990 Recommendations for a ‘system of radiological protection’. The principles of protection recommended by the Commission were still based on the general principles given in Publication 26. However there were important additions which weakened the link to cost benefit analysis and collective dose, and strengthened the protection of the individual, which reflected changes in societal values:\n\n\nIn the 21st century, the latest overall recommendations on an international system of radiological protection appeared. ICRP Publication 103 (2007), after two phases of international public consultation, has resulted in more continuity than change. Some recommendations remain because they work and are clear, others have been updated because understanding has evolved, some items have been added because there has been a void, and some concepts are better explained because more guidance is needed.\n\nIn collaboration with the ICRU, the commission has assisted in defining the use of many of the dose quantities in the accompanying diagram.\n\nThe table below shows the number of different units for various quantities and is indicative of changes of thinking in world metrology, especially the movement from cgs to SI units.\nAlthough the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission permits the use of the units curie, rad, and rem alongside SI units, the European Union European units of measurement directives required that their use for \"public health ... purposes\" be phased out by 31 December 1985.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12025543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12025543", "title": "International Liaison Committee on Resuscitation", "text": "International Liaison Committee on Resuscitation\n\nThe International Liaison Committee on Resuscitation (ILCOR) was formed in 1992 to provide an opportunity for the major organizations in resuscitation to work together on CPR (Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation) and ECC (Emergency Cardiovascular Care) protocols. The name was chosen in 1996 to be a deliberate play on words relating to the treatment of sick hearts – \"ill cor\" (\"cor\" is Latin for \"heart\").\n\nILCOR is composed of the American Heart Association (AHA), the European Resuscitation Council (ERC), the Heart and Stroke Foundation of Canada (HSFC), the Australian and New Zealand Committee on Resuscitation, the Resuscitation Councils of Southern Africa (RCSA), the Resuscitation Councils of Asia (RCA) and the Inter American Heart Foundation (IAHF).\n\n\"To provide a consensus mechanism by which the international science and knowledge relevant to emergency cardiac care can be identified and reviewed. This consensus mechanism will be used to provide consistent international guidelines on emergency cardiac care for Basic Life Support (BLS), Paediatric Life Support (PLS) and Advanced Life Support (ALS). While the major focus will be upon treatment guidelines, the steering committee will also address the effectiveness of educational and training approaches and topics related to the organisation and implementation of emergency cardiac care. The Committee will also encourage coordination of dates for guidelines development and conferences by various national resuscitation councils. These international guidelines will aim for a commonality supported by science for BLS, ALS and PLS.\"\n\nThe objectives of ILCOR are to:\n\nILCOR meets twice each year usually alternating between a venue in the United States and a venue elsewhere in the world. ILCOR produced the first International CPR Guidelines in 2000, and revised protocols in 2005 (published concurrently in the scientific journals Resuscitation and Circulation). A total of 281 experts completed 403 worksheets on 275 topics, reviewing more than 22000 published studies to produce the 2005 revision.\n\nA further update appeared in 2015\n\nThe standard revisions cycle for resuscitation is five years. The next is therefore scheduled to be in 2020.\n"}
{"id": "35737699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35737699", "title": "Intraosseous eruption", "text": "Intraosseous eruption\n\nIntraosseous eruption involves the formation of root of a tooth which allows the tooth to being eruption from the bone. This phase precedes the Supraosseous Eruption phase which consists of Infragingival eruption and Supragingival Eruption. Both the Intraosseous eruption and Supraosseous eruption are part of an eruption phase called Prefunctional eruption.\n\n\"Lecture Notes in Dentistry.\" Tooth Eruption And Factors Influencing Tooth Eruption...ppt Download And 3D Animations. Navydent. Web. 6 May 2012. <http://dentallecnotes.blogspot.com/2011/08/tooth-eruption-and-factors-influencing.html>.\n"}
{"id": "36671577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36671577", "title": "Iris-fixated intraocular lens", "text": "Iris-fixated intraocular lens\n\nIris-fixated phakic intraocular lens is an intraocular lens that is implanted surgically into the eye and fixated to the iris to correct myopia (nearsightedness).\n\nEarly models were sutured to the iris with a stitch; the claw fixation method made iris stitching unnecessary. The iris-claw lens is fixated to the anterior iris surface by enclavation of a fold of iris tissue into the two diametrically opposed claws of the lens. The fixation sites are located in the midperiphery of the iris, which is immobile during pupillary movement.\n\nThis lens was modified into a convex-concave design and manufactured as Artisan/Verisyse lens and later the foldable model (Artiflex), a three-piece lens with silicone optic and PMMA claws, was developed.\n\n"}
{"id": "55086846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55086846", "title": "Iris Paul", "text": "Iris Paul\n\nIris Grace Rajakumari Paul(born 1945) is an Indian physician, theologian, missionary, and community development worker. A devout Christian born into a highly religious family, Paul had a passion for helping others from a young age. She received her B.Sc. in zoology with outstanding marks from Women's Christian College in Madras and completed her MBBS with a Gold Medal in pediatrics from Kilpauk Medical College.\n\nPaul was inspired to conduct missionary work after reading the biography of Albert Schweitzer and began her missionary career after marrying Dr. RAC Paul in 1972. The couple worked with the Indian Missionary Society in the villages of Malkangiri, India before joining the Indian Evangelical Mission to gain support for their work with the tribal Bondo people. While working with the Bondos, Paul helped treated various diseases, including tuberculosis, malaria, dysentery, and more. She conducted research particularly in tuberculosis and became a fellow of the India National College of Chest Physicians in 1986.\n\nAfter the death of her husband, Paul continued her missionary work in Malkangiri, eventually founding the Reaching Hand Society in 1994. Paul's achievements in Malkangiri include the building of St. Stephen's Church, St. Luke's Hospital, programs in literacy, water access, nutrition, prison reform, and increased access to primary care. She was awarded the Yoke Fellow Award from the Direction Mission Aid Society for her development work among the Adivasis people, as well as the Robert Pierce Award by World Vision International for her Christian development work.\n\nIris Paul was born as Iris Grace Rajakumari Walter in 1945 in Tamil Nadu, India. The oldest child of four, she and her siblings enjoyed a comfortable childhood in an affluent family. Her father was the Chief Engineer at the Tamil Nadu Public Works Department and moved his family around frequently, including to Tamil Nadu, Chennai, and Delhi, where Iris learned to speak Hindi. As a child, Paul was described as being rebellious, headstrong, and boisterous, despite the expectations imposed on her by her parents and the rest of society.\n\nPaul grew up in a Christian family and was deeply influenced by her parent’s commitment to their religion. Her mother Ida told Iris and her siblings stories about Jesus and prayed for them every day. Iris’s personal devotion to Christianity began at the age of thirteen, influenced by one of her schoolteachers.\n\nDuring her time at the Women’s Christian College, Paul was involved in the Union of Evangelical Studies of India (ESI). She was an active advocate for Christianity and organized prayer groups, youth groups, and visited individual homes. While in medical college, she also was a member of Emmanuel Methodist church, participating in the choir and doing volunteer work in the slums. \n\nAfter completing her courses in junior college, Paul applied for medical colleges and B.Sc. courses in biology and zoology. Having not received acceptances from any of her medical colleges, she decided to join the B.Sc. course in zoology at Women’s Christian College in Madras and graduated in 1964 with outstanding marks. Afterwards, she pursued her interest in medicine and completed the first year of her MB.BS course at Fatima College, Madurai. She then continued the next six months at Madurai Medical College and finished her degree at Kilpauk Medical College in Madras, receiving a Gold Medal in pediatrics. \n\nA lifelong learner, Paul continued to take courses that were relevant to her work later in her life. In 1985, she attended the Indian Institute of Cross Cultural Communication in Nasik, IICCC, Manarasthra to learn about writing spoken language with the goal of write the New Testament in the Bondo Language. While working with the Bondos, she took a medical correspondence course from the Christian Medical College in Vellore. Paul also pursued advanced study in theology and received a Bachelor of Divinity from the Senate of Serampore University in 1990. \n\nPaul worked as a house surgeon immediately after completing her MB.BS degree. She was initially inspired to conduct missionary work in Africa after reading the biography of Albert Schweitzer, but she later shifted her focus to medical and religious missionary work in India after recognizing the poverty of those living in the slums of India and how it contrasted with her life of privilege. \n\nBefore their marriage, Iris was drawn to RAC Paul’s dedication to Christian medical missionary work, and she began her missionary career accompanying and working alongside him. The pair started out working for the Indian Missionary Society (IMS) in the villages of Malkangiri in Orissa state. Iris used her medical knowledge to treat common diseases among the Adivasis people such as Malaria, Tuberculosis, skin diseases, and dysentery, as well as helping to deliver babies.\n\nAfter spending time with the Adivasis, the Pauls decided to work with the Bondo tribes, a relatively uncontacted group characterized by illiteracy, poverty, and high mortality. They set up a roadside clinic that Iris operated to treat Bondo villages visiting the local market. While treating medical issues, they developed relationships with the local people and taught them aspects of modern civilization and lessons from the gospel. Iris spent much time treating tuberculosis among the Bondos and providing women’s health care. The Pauls wanted to devote their work to the Bondos, whereas the IMS wanted to focus on the Adivasis people, and as a result, they left the IMS in 1973 and began to work for the Indian Evangelical Mission, who agreed to support them. \n\nAfter the passing of RAC Paul, Iris returned to Malkangiri and began a new chapter of missionary work there. She focused on holistic community development that combined evangelism with medical care and community empowerment. Paul formed a partnership with the Evangelical Fellowship of India Commission on Relief (EFICOR) to support her efforts to provide educational programs and services for the villages. Paul sent villagers to take courses at EFICOR on evangelism and teaching literacy to implement in their own communities. She built the St. Stephen’s Church in Malkangiri and established several congregations for the Indian Missionary Society. \n\nPaul also conducted prison reform efforts for the Bondos. She installed a cultural program for Bondo inmates, which involved singing performances, recreational sports, television sets, Bible study groups, regular church service, and a literacy program. She also worked to improve the inmates’ diet and nutrition by setting up a garden for the prisoners to grow their own vegetables. Her staff at EFICOR taught practical skills to released inmates to increase their employment opportunities. \n\nBeginning in 1995, Paul worked with EFICOR to drill a system of wells and pumps in Malkangiri; the team drilled a total of 300 wells within two years. As part of an effort to increase incomes and elevate the Bondos’ socioeconomic status, Paul helped set up an irrigation system and channel the water from the mountains to increase the Bondos' agricultural productivity. She and the EFICOR Water Resource Management team led the construction of a dam at Gottenpalli, a region 75 kilometers south of Malkangiri. The success of the dam allowed Paul to set up wells in more villages. \n\nPaul reached a turning point in her missionary career when she shifted her focus to making her work sustainable by improving the living and health conditions of the population through advocating the acceptance of Jesus. As part of this plan, her medical goals shifted from curing to preventing disease. Paul set up a team of people at EFICOR to vaccinate children against whooping cough, polio, diphtheria, and tetanus. The team vaccinated 8,640 children within 2 years, dropping the rate of polio from 10 to 0 percent in three years and significantly decreasing the rate of whooping cough. Paul also established plant nurseries in villages to improve nutrition. At Gottenpalli, she installed a hut staffed by a primary health worker to distribute basic medicines and treat minor illnesses. During this time, Paul founded St. Luke’s Hospital in Malkangiri.\n\nPaul used her experience in Malkangiri to encourage young Indian Christian missionaries to reach out to their local populations and to other Indian tribes. In 1990, she was invited to speak at a conference of youth leaders held by the Evangelical Fellowship of India. From 1990 through 1992, she spoke at several other conferences for youth, helping to incite a growing interest in Indian Christian missionary work. \n\nIris Paul married Dr. RAC Paul on January 25, 1972 at Emanuel Methodist Church in Madras, Chennai after facing initial disapproval from her father for choosing a sickly man of low stature. During their marriage, Iris played the role of both wife and doctor, helping to take care of RAC Paul and nurse him throughout his ill health. The couple had two children of their own, Remo (the word for \"man\" in the Bondo language) and Mano, and also raised two Bondo children as their own, whom they named David Livingstone and Mary Smrutha. \n\nRAC Paul’s physical weakness and failing health were a constant burden for the Paul family and their missionary goals. The couple had to leave their work behind to travel to the United States to seek a kidney transplant for RAC Paul. During their time away, they lost the support of the Indian Evangelical Mission for their work with the Bondos. Despite these setbacks, the Pauls decided to return to Malkangiri independently with support from their families and through their personal efforts. \n\nAfter numerous hospitalizations and treatments over the next several years, RAC Paul died of kidney failure on September 30, 1986. Even after his death, Iris stayed committed to her and her husband's missionary purpose. Iris returned to Malkangiri, ignoring traditional Indian customs for widows and the advice of her friends and family for her to move back into her parents’ home.\n\nIn 1993, Iris Paul founded Reaching Hand Society, which stands for “Jesus’s hand uplifting people both spiritually and physically,” as an organization dedicated to reaching the villages of Malkangiri with the spirit of Christianity. Reaching Hand Society works to provide medical care, immunizations, health education, literacy programs, water resource management, and prisoner rehabilitation programs in its target villages. Along with providing these services, the organization seeks to empower the local people through women’s empowerment programs, legislative defense, and political education. Reaching Hand Society has since contacted over 700 out of the 926 villages in Malkangiri, increased the literacy rate in 120 villages from 0.4% to 40%, and established worship centers in over fifty villages and local prisons. It is currently run by Iris’s son Remo Paul, Executive Director, and her daughter-in-law Dr. Susan Paul, Medical Superintendent.\n\nPaul became a Fellow of the College of Chest Physicians at Delhi University in 1986 for her research on tuberculosis. In 1988, she was presented with the Yoke Fellow Award from the Direct Mission Aid Society for her “evangelic and holistic development work among the Adivasis.” In 1996, she was given the Robert Pierce International Award for Christian development work by World Vision International. Paul has said of her work, “Medicine is my life. It doesn’t feel like work. I can’t think of anything else I would rather do. It does not bother me when people call at odd hours. I just stay 'til I finish the job”.\n"}
{"id": "27622774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27622774", "title": "James Edward Tierney Aitchison", "text": "James Edward Tierney Aitchison\n\nJames Edward Tierney Aitchison MD LLD CIE (28 October 1835 – 30 September 1898) was a Scottish surgeon and botanist.\n\nHe was the son of Major James Aitchison, HEICS, and was educated at Lasswade Parish School, Dalkeith Grammar School and the Edinburgh Academy. He obtained his doctorate in medicine at the University of Edinburgh in 1858, and then entered the Bengal Medical Service. He harvested plants in India from 1861 to 1872, in Afghanistan from 1879 to 1885 and occasionally in Ireland 1867 to 1869. He published a catalogue of plants of Punjab and Sindh in 1869, \"On the flora of Kuram Valley, etc.. Afghanistan\" in the \"Journal of the Linnean Society\" in 1880–1881 and various other publications in the publications of the Linnean Society of London (he was a member from 1863). He became a member of the Royal Society in 1883. His herbarium is preserved in the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, and Calcutta.\n\nHe stood as the Liberal Unionist candidate for Clackmannanshire and Kinross-shire in the 1892 General Election.\n\n"}
{"id": "23576567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23576567", "title": "Jean Schodorf", "text": "Jean Schodorf\n\nJean Kurtis Schodorf (born June 11, 1950), a former three-term Republican state senator, was the Democratic Party nominee for Kansas Secretary of State in 2014. She was defeated on November 4, 2014 by incumbent Kris Kobach in the general election for Secretary of State 59-41 percent.\n\nSchodorf was born to Wilma Mary Horton (1911–2002) and William A. Kuretich (Croatian: Kuretić), of Croatian origin (1914–2001), a U.S. Marine Corps brigadier general and decorated veteran of World War II. Her father’s military career included extensive travel for his family. Upon his retirement, the family settled in Independence, Kansas. She is the sister of television journalist Bill Kurtis.\n\nSchodorf is a speech/language pathologist and graduated from University of New Mexico (Bachelor of Arts and Masters of Science) and Wichita State University (Ph.D. in Communicative Disorders, post-doctoral work in education administration).\n\nFrom 1989 to 2000, she was on the Board of Education for Unified School District 259 (Wichita School District) and was the board president in 1993, 1997 and 1999.\n\nShe was a Republican member of the Kansas Senate, representing the 25th District in Wichita, from 2001 to 2013.\n\nIn 2010, Schodorf was a candidate for U.S Representative of the 4th district, being vacated by Todd Tiahrt. She finished third in the Republican primary to Mike Pompeo, who won the general election.\n\nIn the 2012 Republican Primary, Senator Schodorf, and Senate President Stephen Morris and six other state senate moderates were opposed by Governor Sam Brownback, the Kansas Chamber of Commerce and the Koch brothers. At the time, Schodorf was the Majority Whip. She was defeated August 7, 2012, in her attempt to be re-elected to the Kansas State Senate by Wichita City Council member Michael O'Donnell, 59 percent to 41 percent. Of those targeted, only Senator Carolyn McGinn won re-election. The primary victories gave incumbent Governor Sam Brownback the margin he needed to effectively restructure state taxation, exempting \"S\" status filers such as Koch Industries from income taxes.\n\nIn January 2013, Schodorf changed her party affiliation to Democrat.\n\nIn May 2016 Schodorf, by then a resident of Sedan, Kansas, announced she was running again for the Kansas legislature, this time as a State Representative for District 12 in Southeast, Kansas. She lost the general election to Republican primary winner Doug Blex.\n\nSen. Schodorf served on these legislative committees:\n\nLegislation sponsored or co-sponsored by Sen. Schodorf includes:\n\nSome of the top contributors to Sen. Schodorf's 2008 campaign were, according to the \"National Institute on Money in State Politics\" the Kansas Realtors Association, Kansas Contractors Association, Kansas Republican Senatorial Committee, Kansans for Lifesaving Cures and the Kansas National Education Association. Institutions were her major donor group.\n\nIn 2010, Sen. Schodorf entered the primary race for the 4th Congressional District of Kansas, running against four other Republicans (Jim Anderson, Wink Hartman, Mike Pompeo and Paij Rutschman). She was endorsed by former U.S. Sen Nancy Kassebaum Baker on July 13, 2010. Schodorf finished second in the Republican primary, losing to eventual general election winner Mike Pompeo.\n\nIn the 2012 Republican primary for her state senate seat, Sen. Schodorf was defeated by Michael O'Donnell of Wichita in the Republican Primary on August 7, 2012, by a 2,785 to 1,949 margin. Schodorf, a moderate, had been targeted by conservatives Republicans for defeat. O'Donnell went on to defeat Democratic nominee, the late Timothy L. Snow in the general election.\n\nIn September 2013, Schodorf announced she was running for Secretary of State of Kansas, switching parties to run as a Democrat. She was defeated by incumbent Republican Kris Kobach, who was running for re-election.\n\nRunning from rural Sedan, she lost the general election to Republican Doug Blex.60.9% to 30%.\n\n"}
{"id": "18217786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18217786", "title": "List of political parties in Melanesia by country", "text": "List of political parties in Melanesia by country\n"}
{"id": "5495665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5495665", "title": "Menotropin", "text": "Menotropin\n\nMenotropin (also called human menopausal gonadotropin or hMG) is a hormonally active medication for the treatment of fertility disturbances. Frequently the plural is used as the medication is a mixture of gonadotropins. Menotropins are extracted from the urine of postmenopausal women.\n\nUrine of postmenopausal women reflects the hypergonadotropic state of menopause -levels of follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH) are high - and contain a mixture of these gonadotropins. Other protein substances may be present, including small amounts of human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG). In 1949 Piero Donini found a relatively simple method to extract gonadotropins from urine of postmenopausal women. Menotropins were successfully introduced into clinical use by Bruno Lunenfeld in 1961. While earlier menotropin medications contained FSH and LH at a 1:1 ratio, the recognition that it is FSH that is critical for follicle stimulation has led to development of newer preparations that contain a much higher FSH/LH ratio, Fertinex being an example.\n\nMenotropin preparations are designed for use in selected women where they stimulate the ovaries to mature follicles, thus making them more fertile. They are administered by typically daily injection, intramuscularly or subcutaneously, for about ten days under close supervision to adjust dose and duration of therapy. They can also be used in hypogonadal men to stimulate sperm production.\n\nHuman urinary-derived menotropin preparations are exposed to the theoretical risk of infection from menopausal donors of urine. Nevertheless, the failure to irrefutably demonstrate infectivity following intracerebral inoculation with urine from transmissible spongiform encephalopathy(TSE)-infected hosts suggests that the risk associated with products derived from urine is merely theoretical.\n\nRecombinant gonadotropins have to a large degree replaced hMG in fertility treatments. The recombinant process allows for the production of pure FSH or LH not \"contaminated\" by other proteins that may be present after urinary extraction. While some head-on studies seem not to suggest that \"pure FSH\" gives better results than hMG., others claim that recombinant FSH is more efficient and reduces costs. A Cochrane Collaboration analysis did not reveal major differences in clinical outcomes when comparing urinary versus recombinant FSH.\n\nThe Practice Committee of the American Society for Reproductive Medicine reported: \"“Compared with earlier crude animal extracts, modern highly purified urinary and recombinant gonadotropin products have clearly superior quality, specific activity, and performance. There are no confirmed differences in safety, purity, or clinical efficacy among the various available urinary or recombinant gonadotropin products.”\"\n\nA number of drug companies have and had marketed hMG preparations that include:\n\n"}
{"id": "13212039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13212039", "title": "Mubarak al-Duri", "text": "Mubarak al-Duri\n\nAn Iraqi doctor, Mubarak al-Duri (مبارك الدوري) (also \"Mubarak Douri\", \"Mubarak el Doory\") ran an agricultural project owned by Osama bin Laden from 1992–94, and is alleged to have procured weapons and equipment overseas.\n\nIn the 1980s, he was living in Tucson, Arizona where he was in contact with Wadi al-Hage, who also lived in the city. The pair were likely associated with the city's fledgling Maktab al-Khidamat.\n\nWhile living in Khartoum in 1991, al-Duri shared an office with Al-Jihad member Abu Hassan el Masry. He was a personal friend of Syrian-American honey producer Mohammed Loay Bayazid, who is believed to have recruited him.\n\nal-Duri worked for the agricultural firm named Al-Thimar al-Mubaraka (\"Blessed Fruits\") which exported corn and sunflower seeds, and employed 10,000 workers, and was in charge of their Al-Damazin Farms project, which included 4,000 seasonal workers tending nearly a million acres (4,000 km²). \n\nAn agricultural engineer named Mohammad Zeki Mahjoub met with al-Duri, at the request of Bin Laden and became the farms' Deputy General Manager. On October 17, 1993, al-Duri wrote Mahjoub a reference letter vouching for his work with the farms in al-Damazin from February 1992 until May 1993.\n\nHe is reported to have lived in Richmond, British Columbia, probably in the late 1990s.\n\nHe was also in contact with Mohammad Zeki Mahjoub.\n\nIn 2005, Canadian judge Eleanor Dawson released a ruling that suggested that al-Duri likely maintained contact with Essam Marzouk while living in British Columbia.\n\nIn November 2001, al-Duri was contacted by Sudanese intelligence services who informed him that the FBI had sent Jack Cloonan and several other agents, to speak with himself and Mohamed Loay Bayazid. al-Duri and another Iraqi colleague agreed to meet with Cloonan in a safe house overseen by the intelligence service. They were asked whether there was any possible connection between Saddam Hussein and al-Qaeda, and laughed stating that Bin Laden hated the dictator who he believed was a \"Scotch-drinking, woman-chasing apostate.”\n\nIn 2002, the CIA sent Rolf Mowatt-Larssen to again interview al-Duri and Bayazid, to see if they couldn't be made to defect, although both refused.\n\nNow lives in hiding between the Gulf states and Iraq\n"}
{"id": "51322315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51322315", "title": "Museum of British Surfing", "text": "Museum of British Surfing\n\nThe Museum of British Surfing, in Braunton in the English county of Devon, contains exhibits relating to the history of surfing in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe collection originally started as a travelling exhibition by a group of friends and still maintains a mobile display which travels to surfing spots around the country. An oral history project, The First Wave, which aimed to collect the memories of early British surfers received funding from the Heritage Lottery Fund.\n\nThe permanent site in Braunton opened in 2012 in the old goods shed of the old Braunton Railway Station on the Ilfracombe Branch Line. Several grants have been obtained from local councils and charitable trusts to develop \"The Yard\" (the building which hosts the museum) and the surrounding area including the management of a local skatepark. It was awarded the Collections Trust award for \"collections on a budget\" as a result of the museums commitment to achieving carbon neutral status.\n\nThe founder Pete Robinson, who donated his collection of surfboards and surfing memorabilia to start the museum, left the project in 2015. The collection now includes over 200 different designs and shapes of surfboards, many elaborately decorated. Some of the earliest board, known as coffin lids, were made by a local undertaker and used in the 1920s and 1930s. There are also videos and photographs including one of Devonian Agatha Christie with a surfboard in Waikiki. There is also a photograph of King Edward VIII when he was Prince of Wales, also surfing at Waikiki, illustrating the aristocratic nature of the sport in the first half of the 20th century.\n"}
{"id": "39746652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39746652", "title": "National Association for the Promotion of Social Science", "text": "National Association for the Promotion of Social Science\n\nThe National Association for the Promotion of Social Science (NAPSS), often known as the Social Science Association, was a British reformist group founded in 1857 by Lord Brougham. It pursued issues in public health, industrial relations, penal reform, and female education. It was dissolved in 1886.\n\nThe efforts of George Hastings brought together three groups of the 1850s to form the NAPSS: the Society for Promoting the Amendment of the Law, the National Reformatory Union, and the Society for Promoting the Employment of Women (the Langham Place Group). It took as model the British Association for the Advancement of Science, holding an itinerant annual meeting, which provided a forum for social reformers.\n\nThe objectives of the Association was defined as \"to coordinate the efforts of the experts and the politicians\". One factor in the eventual decline of the NSPSS was that the objectives of medical reformers changed. Legislation and the efforts of central government to improve public health became less important to them.\n\nIts first secretary was Isa Knox.\n\nTwenty-eight Social Science Congresses took place:\n\nA committee of the Association produced \"Report on Trade Societies and Strikes\" (1860). This report was highly regarded: the Webbs later called it \"the best collection of Trade Union material and the most impartial account of Trade Union action that has ever been issued\". There were contributions by three Christian Socialists (Thomas Hughes, John Malcolm Forbes Ludlow, and F. D. Maurice). Hughes was one of two secretaries to the committee (with P. M. Rathbone). The committee included the Liberal politicians William Edward Forster, and Sir James Kay-Shuttleworth, 1st Baronet. There was one trade unionist as member, Thomas Joseph Dunning.\n\nThe Association's Quarantine Committee was set up in 1858. Its report was published officially by Parliament.\n"}
{"id": "49107323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49107323", "title": "National Centre for Sport and Exercise Medicine", "text": "National Centre for Sport and Exercise Medicine\n\nThe National Centre for Sport and Exercise Medicine (NCSEM) is an Olympic legacy project delivering education, research and clinical services in sport, exercise and physical activity from three hubs across England. It is a collaboration of universities, healthcare trusts, local authorities and private and voluntary sector organisations, working together to improve the health of the nation – from everyday people at risk of ill health to elite athletes.\n\nThe NCSEM has a depth and breadth of expertise in sport, exercise and physical activity drawn from its partners carrying out world-class and internationally\nrelevant research.\n\nThe London Olympic and Paralympic games pledged to provide a lasting health legacy tackling the crucial issues currently threatening health budgets, workforce efficiency and the health of the nation. The National Centre for Sport and Exercise Medicine is a 2012 Olympics Legacy project.\n\nThe NCSEM has five themes; each target a different aspect of the value of physical activity:\n\n\nThe NCSEM consists of three regional hubs based in the East Midlands, London and Sheffield. In each hub, leading academics and healthcare professionals are brought together to build on existing research in the field of sport and exercise medicine and to facilitate the efficient transfer of research into frontline practice. In London the Institute of Sport Exercise and Health (ISEH) specialises in elite sports performance and sports injury management; in the East Midlands the focus is on a strong and broad research base with the aim of accelerating the translation of knowledge into clinical practice; while Sheffield concentrates on citywide testing of community initiatives to increase physical activity.\n\nEast Midlands\n\nLondon\n\nSheffield\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23644274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23644274", "title": "Non-consultant hospital doctor", "text": "Non-consultant hospital doctor\n\nNon-consultant hospital doctor (NCHD) is a term used in Ireland to describe qualified medical practitioners who work under the (direct or nominal) supervision of a consultant in a particular speciality. The clinical duties and responsibilities of NCHDs are varied but centre around the provision of medical care to patients. Examples of work carried out by NCHDs includes the diagnosis and treatment of medical conditions, performing therapeutic and diagnostic tests and interaction with other healthcare professionals. A clinical team made up of a consultant, or group of consultants, along with a cohort of NCHDs, is the core of medical service delivery in the Irish hospital system. A NCHD may be in a training programme or in a non-training role. Non-training doctors are employed most commonly at SHO or registrar level, and hold either 6 or 12 months contracts, a small number hold permanent posts. The doctors employed in non-training posts are not eligible for the trainee specialist division, and are most commonly registered on the general or supervised divisions of the Irish Medical Council register. \n\nStructured postgraduate medical training in Ireland is provided by the medical postgraduate training bodies who are accredited by the Medical Council of Ireland. Postgraduate training is specifically designed to address the needs of junior doctors who have successfully completed their internship. It provides a career pathway towards achieving specialist registration. The career path for a doctor trained in Ireland ideally should follow structured training route from the point of entry to medical school to certification as a specialist (e.g. GP; Orthopaedic Surgeon; Gastroenterologist, Pathologist, Obstetrician, Public Health Specialist etc.). NCHDs are graded by seniority and time since graduation from medical school. These grades are:\n\n\nAfter completion of specialist registrar training, doctors are qualified to take up consultant posts.\n\n"}
{"id": "30932051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30932051", "title": "Nutriepigenomics", "text": "Nutriepigenomics\n\nNutriepigenomics is the study of food nutrients and their effects on human health through epigenetic modifications. There is now considerable evidence that nutritional imbalances during gestation and lactation are linked to non-communicable diseases, such as obesity, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, hypertension, and cancer. If metabolic disturbances occur during critical time windows of development, the resulting epigenetic alterations can lead to permanent changes in tissue and organ structure or function and predispose individuals to disease.\n\nEpigenetics relates to heritable changes in gene function that occur independently of alterations in primary DNA sequence. Two major epigenetic mechanisms implicated in nutriepigenomics are DNA methylation and histone modification. DNA methylation in gene promoter regions usually results in gene silencing and influences gene expression. While this form of gene silencing is extremely important in development and cellular differentiation, aberrant DNA methylation can be detrimental and has been linked to various disease processes, such as cancer. The methyl groups used in DNA methylation are often derived from dietary sources, such as folate and choline, and explains why diet can have a significant impact on methylation patterns and gene expression. Gene silencing can also be reinforced through the recruitment of histone deacetylases to decrease transcriptional activation. Conversely, histone acetylation induces transcriptional activation to increase gene expression. Dietary components can influence these epigenetic events, thereby altering gene expression and disturbing functions such as appetite control, metabolic balance and fuel utilization.\n\nVarious genetic sequences can be targeted for epigenetic modification. A transcriptome-wide analysis in mice found that a protein-restricted (PR) diet during gestation resulted in differential gene expression in approximately 1% of the fetal genes analyzed (235/22,690). Specifically, increased expression was seen in genes involved in the p53 pathway, apoptosis, negative regulators of cell metabolism, and genes related to epigenetic control. Additional studies have investigated the effect of a PR-diet in rats and found changes in promoter methylation of both the glucocorticoid receptor and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR). Altered expression of these receptors can result in elevated blood glucose levels and affect lipid and carbohydrate metabolism. Feeding a PR-diet to pregnant and/or lactating mice also increased expression of glucokinase, acetyl-CoA carboxylase, PPARα, and acyl-CoA oxidase. Changes in expression were reportedly due to epigenetic regulation of either the gene promoter itself, or promoters of transcription factors that regulate gene expression. Additional genes that have been shown, either by in vitro or in vivo studies, to be regulated by epigenetic mechanisms include leptin, SOCS3, glucose transporter (GLUT)-4, POMC, 11-β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2 and corticotrophin releasing hormone. Epigenetic modification of these genes may lead to “metabolic programming” of the fetus and result in long-term changes in metabolism and energy homeostasis.\n\nThe period of development in which the nutritional imbalance occurs is very important in determining which disease-related genes will be affected. Different organs have critical developmental stages, and the time point at which they are compromised will predispose individuals to specific diseases. Epigenetic modifications that occur during development may not be expressed until later in life depending on the function of the gene. While the majority of studies implicate prenatal and perinatal periods as critical time windows, some research has shown that nutritional intake during adulthood can also affect the epigenome.\n\nDevelopmental plasticity is the process in which fetuses adapt to their environment. Environmental cues, including dietary components, present in the in utero environment can induce significant changes in the expression of the genome through epigenetic modifications. Fetal developmental plastic responses can cause changes in lean body mass, endocrinology, blood flow and vascular loading, and lead to increased risk of various diseases in adulthood.\n\nFetal exposure to calcium, folate, magnesium, high or low protein, and zinc have all been associated with birth weight. Numerous studies have investigated the link between birth weight and risk of disease and have found that low birth weight is significantly associated with coronary heart disease, stroke and type-2 diabetes. Most importantly, these associations occurred after adjusting for lifestyle factors, implying a genetic basis for onset of disease. Impaired insulin secretion is associated with low birth weight and can lead to insulin resistance as babies accumulate body fat. Studies using intrauterine growth retarded (IUGR) rats have found that growth inhibition can lead to decreased expression of Pdx1 transcription factor, which is essential for differentiation and function of pancreatic beta cells. Decreased histone acetylation at the proximal promoter of Pdx1 is responsible for reduced Pdx1 expression and subsequently results in a cascade of histone deacetylation and methylation events that can result in type-2 diabetes.\nObesity during pregnancy and high-fat maternal diets both show strong associations with obesity in offspring. As the number of overweight reproductive-age women increases, the number of overweight children and infants also increases. It has been postulated that maternal obesity causes an accumulation of fat in fetal adipose tissue (adiposity) and predisposes babies for obesity in childhood and adulthood. Animal studies have shown that maternal overnutrition may impact brain development and cause disruptions to programming of the hypothalamus. Offspring that were exposed to a high-fat or high-caloric maternal diet had increased levels of insulin, glucose and leptin. It is hypothesized that these elevations are due to disturbances in the complex neuronal network that includes the neuropeptide Y (NPY) and proopiomelanocortin (POMC) pathways. This altered neuronal signaling can consequently impact food-intake behavior and lead to diet-induced obesity in adulthood. While epigenetic modifications are most likely involved in the development of obesity, the specific target genes have yet to be identified. Genes involved in adipogenesis, such as fibroblast growth-factor-2, phosphatase and tensin homologue, cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 1A and oestrogen receptor-alpha, possess multiple CpG islands in their promoter sites and may act as epigenetic targets. Furthermore, it has been shown that prenatal exposure to a hypomethylating agent, such as bisphenol A (BPA), is associated with increased body weight and suggests modified DNA methylation as a mechanism for increasing susceptibility to obesity.\n\nIt has long been realized that maternal folate intake during pregnancy is linked to fetal development and growth, and can reduce the risk of serious birth defects. Folate is a source of S-adenosyl methionine (SAM), which is used to supply DNA methyltransferases with methyl groups. Therefore, changes in folate supply have a substantial effect on DNA methylation patterns. Low levels of folate are associated with an increased risk of preterm delivery, poor growth of the placenta and uterus, and intrauterine growth retardation. Several complex diseases, including cancer, cardiovascular diseases and autism have also been linked to maternal folate status. Based on animal studies it has been hypothesized that reduced folate intake could increase the risk of neural tube defects by reducing the amount of methylayed DNA during cranial neural tube closure. Recently it was discovered that folate protection from congenital heart defects is linked to epigenetics and Wnt signaling. Multiple environmental factors target the Wnt signaling pathway during embryogenesis and can cause misregulation of the pathway. Folic acid metabolism generates SAM, thereby altering the methylation states of histones H3K9, H3K4, and H3K27 and genetically altering Wnt signaling.\n\nRecently a double-blind placebo controlled trial of high dose Folinic Acid (Leucovorin Calcium) demonstrated efficacy at improving verbal communication in children with autism.\n\nAnother critical developmental time window is the perinatal period, the time period immediately before and after birth. It has been shown that maternal diet in late pregnancy and an infant’s diet in the beginning weeks can all have significant impacts on gene expression. Therefore, perinatal nutrition is both late-stage \"in utero\" nutrition and lactation.\n\nBone mass and the development of osteoporosis have been studied in relation to perinatal nutrition. An important factor to consider when investigating perinatal nutrition is whether the baby was breast-fed or formula-fed. Studies have shown that breast-fed babies have increased bone mass compared to those were not breast-fed, and that this small increase in bone mass during a period of critical development could potentially program the skeleton to continue along a “healthy” growth trajectory. It has also been shown that maternal vitamin D insufficiency during late pregnancy is associated with reduced bone size and mineral mass in late childhood. Peak bone mass has shown to be a good predictor of risk of fracture and osteoporosis, with even a small increase in peak bone mass resulting in a much lower risk of bone fracture. Research shows that genetic markers explain only a small proportion of variation in bone mass and risk of fracture. Therefore, healthy bone programming is most likely influenced by various epigenetic mechanisms, such as imprinting of the growth promoting genes IGF-2, or changes to the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis (HPA).\n\nImbalances in maternal nutrition can also have a significant effect on fetal neurodevelopment. Brain development occurs most rapidly during fetal development and infancy, and research has shown that exposure to certain environmental conditions can have long-lasting effects on cognition. Specifically, n-3 fatty acids, iodine, iron and choline have been shown to influence brain development and impact cognitive ability and behavior. The greatest evidence for a link between nutrition and neurodevelopment comes from studies that show low birth weight associated with low IQ and increased risk of schizophrenia. Several studies suggest that breast-feeding promotes long-term neurodevelopment by providing the nutrients necessary for proper brain development. A study in mice showed that choline-deficient diets during the late gestation period impaired fetal brain development, including decreased cell proliferation and reduced visual-spatial and auditory memory. These cognitive changes appeared to be due to altered histone and DNA methylation patterns in the fetal hippocampus, thus providing a link between maternal nutrition, epigenetics, and early brain development.\n\nIt has been postulated that breast-feeding may also protect against type-1 diabetes, with research showing that formula-fed infants are at an increased risk of developing islet autoantibodies. Individuals with type-1 diabetes experience a pre-clinical diabetes phase characterized by autoimmunity against pancreatic islets. The introduction of certain foods in the first few months of life, such as berries and cereal, is significantly associated with increased risk of islet autoantibody development compared to babies who are exposed to solid foods later in life. While the pathogenesis behind development of autoantibodies remains largely unknown, it is very probable that an epigenetic link exists between perinatal diet and risk of type-1 diabetes.\n\nThe majority of research in nutriepigenomics has focused on nutritional imbalances during gestation and lactation periods. However, foods that are consumed during adulthood can also impact gene expression and disease pathogenesis. Cancer is the disease most commonly associated with adult nutrition and epigenetic modifications. DNA hypomethelation promotes cancer progression by allowing increased gene transcription, while hypermethylation can silence tumor suppressor genes and further promote uncontrolled cell division and tumor formation. Compounds found in foods, such as genistein and tea polyphenols, are able to regulate DNA methyltransferases and histone acetylation in cultured cancer cells and may provide protection against certain types of cancer. Other dietary compounds, such as diallyl disulfide present in garlic and sulforaphane present in cruciferous vegetables, have been associated with cancer prevention in clinical trials. This may be due to their ability to inhibit histone deacetylase (HDAC) enzymes and prevent silencing of important regulatory genes.\n\nMany believe epigenetic regulation is cleared during the fertilization process, yet more evidence for transgenerational effects (TGEs) are being revealed. These TGEs take place when the epigenetic regulatory patterns are not sufficiently erased during fertilization, possibly due to nutrition levels in previous generations. Later generations may be affected from caloric and protein restriction, high-fat interventions and endocrine disruption in earlier generations. Differences within the nutritional behavior of the maternal rat are believed to cause malprogramming in the F1 generation and may then be passed to subsequent generations. \nMaternal rats fed a PR-diet during the entire length of pregnancy led to metabolic-related problems in the F1 and F2 generations, even with normal nutrition during the F1 pregnancy. These effects have also been seen in the F3 generation depending on the length of protein restriction. If protein restriction occurred solely during pregnancy, the F1 and F2 offspring had higher systolic blood pressure and lower nephron numbers, possibly predisposing them to hypertension. Altered glucose utilization was detected in the grand-offspring of maternal rats fed a PR-diet during pregnancy and lactation, potentially resulting in diabetes later on in life \n\nProtein-restriction in the F0 generation led to hypomethylation of promoters involved in metabolism in the F1 and F2 generations, even though the F1 pregnant rat was given a normal diet. The exact mechanism of this situation has yet to be elucidated; however, direct transmission is a distinct possibility, meaning the epigenetic marks were preserved during spermatogenesis and oogenesis, when they are normally erased.\n\nMost research to date use common rodent models to investigate the role of nutrition on phenotype. Popular areas to investigate include IUGR studies, whereby rodents, and sometimes sheep, are subjected to a variety of nutritional conditions. A model for studying IUGR in rodent was developed by Simmons \"et al.\" (2010) and is used to investigate type II diabetes. The maternal rats have their uterine arteries ligated, causing altered use of glucose and insulin in the fetus and can therefore serve as a model for diabetes. These growth-retarded rats were found to be highly similar to human fetuses, as they both display symptoms such as lowered glucose and insulin levels. Gestational diabetes may also be studied through chemical induction using streptozotocin treatment of the pregnant rats. Streptozotocin can cause destruction of the beta cells within the pancreas depending on the concentration given.\n\nThe predominant means of investigating nutriepigenetics involves varying the nutritional conditions to which a subject is exposed to and monitoring the effects thereafter. Restricting caloric and protein intake are the two most common methods. A pregnant rodent may have their caloric intake reduced up to 30-50% of normal intake. Protein restricted rodents are given 8-9% casein, as opposed to control rats that are fed 20% casein. Micronutrients, such as zinc and iron, may also be restricted to investigate the effects on offspring. Additionally, rats fed diets lacking or including methyl donors are often used to study the effects of diet on epigenomics, as variations within the methylation of DNA are common means of silencing or expressing genes. Supplementing maternal mice with folic acid, vitamin B12, choline and betaine leads to increased levels of DNA methylation at CpG sites and causes a coat color change. This is an example of epigenetically modifiable loci called a “metastable epiallele”, of which only a few have been identified. The above is an example of the “agouti” gene locus, whereby the insertion of a transposable element upstream to the Agouti gene is hypermethylated from the supplementation and causes a change in the mice's coat color. Diets containing higher carbohydrate and fat content attempt to mimic typical Western-style diets may also be used in nutriepigenetic studies. Another method used is “catch-up”, where offspring of rats born to mothers subjected to various diets are subsequently cross-fostered to mothers fed normal diets.\n\nThe possibilities of utilizing nutriepigenomics for intervention are quite expansive. This can include preventative therapies, such as providing an optimal regime for nutrition during pregnancy and lactation. It is already common place for pregnant mothers to supplement their diets with choline and folate to prevent the development of neurological disabilities in the fetus.\n\nA highly specific diet, termed an \"EpiG diet,\" may be employed for an individual believed to be at higher risk of developing a metabolic disorder. These diets may include supplementation with methyl donors, such as folate. There are also many other natural compounds, such as resveratrol, curcumin and green tea that have been termed “epigenetic modifiers”, as they have anti-cancer capabilities in addition to being used as treatments for metabolic diseases. However, the functions of these compounds still require long-term studies to evaluate their effect over time.\n\nThere also exists potential for therapeutic treatments that may correct metabolic disorders, such as type II diabetes. Components of garlic and cruciferous vegetables are known to possess HDAC inhibitors that modify the acetylation of histone proteins and may contain a protection against cancer. These same compounds have also been implicated in irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) and colon cancer, as they may modify the histones normally implicated in these diseases.\n\nElucidation of disease pathways is another future direction for nutriepigenomic studies. For example, choline-deficient diets and alcohol metabolism during pregnancy may have very similar metabolic pathways. Therefore, animal studies using choline-restricted diets may assist in investigations of fetal alcohol spectrum disorders.\n\nWhen compared to studies of maternal transmission, investigations into the role of paternal diets are lacking. A review demonstrated the nutrition of both parents do in fact play a role in determining the health of their offspring. A germ-line study reported paternal rats fed a high-fat diet led to insulin dysfunction in the F1 offspring. While this likely occurs via epigenetic modifications similar to those postulated in the maternal diets, the exact mechanism remains to be defined. Assessing the role of epigenetic mechanisms may be easier using paternal inheritance, as sperm transmits epigenetic and genetic information, whereas the female cells also transmit mitochondrial DNA.\n\n"}
{"id": "25270749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25270749", "title": "Operating microscope", "text": "Operating microscope\n\nAn operating microscope is an optical microscope specifically designed to be used in a surgical setting, typically to perform microsurgery.\n\nDesign features of an operating microscope are: magnification typically in the range from 4x-40x, components that are easy to sterilize or disinfect in order to ensure cross-infection control.\n\nThere is often a prism that allows splitting of the light beam in order that assistants may also visualize the procedure or to allow photography or video to be taken of the operating field.\n\nAn example of a procedure which commonly uses an operating microscope would be endodontic retreatment, where the magnification provided by the operating microscope improves visualisation of the anatomy present leading to better outcomes for the patient. It has been suggested that the well-focused illumination and magnification should be part of a standard of care in endodontic therapy. . However , a Cochrane review found insufficient evidence to determine if the use of magnification devices has more advantage or positively affecting the outcome of the dental procedure.\nAnother example might be an anastomosis procedure carried out to join blood vessels in vascular surgery.\n\nTypically an operating microscope might cost several thousand dollars for a basic model, more advanced models may be much more expensive. Additionally specialized microsurgical instruments may be required to make full use of the improved vision the microscope affords. It can take time to master use of an operating microscope.\n\nFields of medicine that make significant use of the operating microscope include Plastic Surgery, dentistry (especially endodontics), ENT surgery, ophthalmic surgery, and neurosurgery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29162226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29162226", "title": "People's Doctor of the USSR", "text": "People's Doctor of the USSR\n\nPeople's Doctor of the USSR () was an honorary title granted to doctors of the Soviet Union; it was established on 25 October 1977 by Leonid Brezhnev and its creation was officialized on the n°44/1977 issue of Supreme Soviet's official journal. Its regulation was later modified and completed by the Supreme Soviet's decree of 22 August 1988.\n\nIt was conferred by the Supreme Soviet's presidency on behalf of the Ministry of Health. A diploma of the Supreme Soviet's presidency was given to those who were appointed \"People's Doctor\" jointly with the medal and its concerning certificate. The title could be bestowed to individual medical doctors and nurses but also to health care structures as general hospitals, sanatoriums, maternity wards or preventive medicine centres.\n\nThe awarded people or structures were selected for their worthwhile contributions to public health improvement, for their peculiar skills and expertise and for having proved abnegation and high moral qualities in their duties fulfilment.\n\nFollowing the Dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991, the title did not disappear. On 30 December 1995, by a decree of the Russian presidency, it was created the new title of \"Meritorious Doctor of the Russian Federation\".\n\nThe title was first bestowed on 9 August 1978, when five people were awarded:\nThe last doctor to be praised was Dr. Vitaly Prokopievich Sergeyev from Osh (Kirghiz SSR), whom the medal was conferred on 20 December 1991.\n\nThe medal was made of tombac and its shape was roughly quadrangular (22.5 x 23.5 mm). The central part was occupied by the inscription \"Народный врач СССР\" (\"People's Doctor of the USSR\") on three lines and below, on the left, the Bowl of Hygieia medical symbol and, on the right, a bay laurel branch. Symbols and inscriptions were embossed, with convex letters. The medal was suspended to a single red silk fringe (18 mm x 21 mm) to whom it was attached by a metallic buckle bearing the hammer and sickle symbol.\n\n"}
{"id": "11845980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11845980", "title": "Recursive partitioning", "text": "Recursive partitioning\n\nRecursive partitioning is a statistical method for multivariable analysis. Recursive partitioning creates a decision tree that strives to correctly classify members of the population by splitting it into sub-populations based on several dichotomous independent variables. The process is termed recursive because each sub-population may in turn be split an indefinite number of times until the splitting process terminates after a particular stopping criterion is reached.\nRecursive partitioning methods have been developed since the 1980s. Well known methods of recursive partitioning include Ross Quinlan's ID3 algorithm and its successors, C4.5 and C5.0 and Classification and Regression Trees. Ensemble learning methods such as Random Forests help to overcome a common criticism of these methods - their vulnerability to overfitting of the data - by employing different algorithms and combining their output in some way.\n\nThis article focuses on recursive partitioning for medical diagnostic tests,\nbut the technique has far wider applications.\nSee decision tree.\n\nAs compared to regression analysis, which creates a formula that health care providers can use to calculate the probability that a patient has a disease, recursive partition creates a rule such as 'If a patient has finding x, y, or z they probably have disease q'.\n\nA variation is 'Cox linear recursive partitioning'.\n\nCompared to other multivariable methods, recursive partitioning has advantages and disadvantages.\n\nExamples are available of using recursive partitioning in research of diagnostic tests. Goldman used recursive partitioning to prioritize sensitivity in the diagnosis of myocardial infarction among patients with chest pain in the emergency room.\n\n"}
{"id": "5971687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5971687", "title": "Riegle Report", "text": "Riegle Report\n\nThe Riegle Report, officially titled \"U.S. Chemical and Biological Warfare-Related Dual Use Exports to Iraq and their Possible Impact on the Health Consequences of the Gulf War\", summarized testimony before the U.S. Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs with Respect to Export Administration. The May 25, 1994, report by Committee Chairman Riegle and ranking minority member Alfonse M. D'Amato concludes that there is significant evidence that \"coalition forces were exposed to mixed chemical agents as a result of coalition bombings of Iraqi nuclear, chemical, and biological facilities and that the fallout from these bombings may be contributing to the health problems currently being suffered by Gulf War veterans\" following the Gulf War (1990–1991). The report also implicates the U.S. Department of Commerce as well as the American Type Culture Collection in the shipment of biological research samples to Iraq:\n\nSenator Riegle also called in the \"Congressional Record\" for the U.S. Department of Defense to continue to investigate the potential causes of Gulf War syndrome and to provide needed care to afflicted Gulf War veterans and their families:\n\n"}
{"id": "4055983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4055983", "title": "Saber (Fate/stay night)", "text": "Saber (Fate/stay night)\n\n, whose real name is , is a fictional character from the Japanese 2004 visual novel and anime series \"Fate/stay night\" by Type-Moon and its prequel, \"Fate/Zero\", by Type-Moon and nitroplus. In \"Fate/stay night\", she is Shirou Emiya's servant, participating in a war between masters and servants in order to accomplish their dream from the mythical Holy Grail. Saber's relationship with the cast varies depending on the player's decisions. In \"Fate/Zero\", she is Kiritsugu Emiya's Servant, a decade before meeting Shiro. Nevertheless, she makes brief discussions with her master and instead works alongside his wife Iris. An agile and powerful warrior, Saber is loyal, independent, and reserved; she appears cold, but is actually suppressing her emotions to focus on her goals. Her class is considered the \"Most Outstanding\", with excellent ratings in all categories. Critical reception to Saber's characterization and role in the series has been generally postiive.\n\nSaber's full name is Altria Pendragon, a character inspired by the legends of King Arthur. At her nativity, Uther decides to not publicly announce Altria's birth or gender, fearing his subjects will never accept a woman as a legitimate ruler. She is entrusted by Merlin to a loyal knight, Sir Ector, who raises her as a surrogate son. When Altria is fifteen, King Uther dies leaving no known eligible heir to the throne. Britain enters a period of turmoil following the growing threat of invasion by the Saxons. Merlin soon approaches Altria, explaining that the British people will recognize her as a destined ruler if she draws Caliburn, a ceremonial sword embedded in a large slab of stone. However, pulling this sword is symbolic of accepting the hardships of a monarch, and Altria will be responsible for preserving the welfare of her people. Without hesitation and despite her gender, she draws Caliburn and shoulders Britain's mantle of leadership.\n\nDespite her immense strength and fighting abilities, Altria is plagued by feelings of guilt and inferiority throughout her reign; she sacrifices her emotions for the good of Britain, yet many of her subjects and knights become critical of her lack of humanity and cold calculation. Excalibur's scabbard is stolen while she repels an assault along her country's borders; when Altria returns inland, she discovers Britain is being torn asunder by civil unrest. Despite her valiant efforts to placate the dissent, Altria is mortally wounded by a traitorous knight, a homunculus born of her blood named Mordred, during the Battle of Camlann. Her dying body is escorted to a holy isle by Morgan le Fay and Sir Bedivere. Altria orders a grieving Bedivere to dispose of Excalibur by throwing it back to Vivian; in her absence, she reflects on her personal failures, regretting her life as king. Before her last breath, she appeals to the world; in exchange for services as a Heroic Spirit, she asks to be given an opportunity to relive her life, where someone more suitable and effective would lead Britain in her stead.\n\nServants of the Saber class have inherently high magic resistance, and Saber takes this to extremes, being virtually untouchable by modern magi. She also possesses instinct that comes close to precognition and high charisma, which she can use to command an army. She can also use \"Mana Burst\", which transfers magical energy into her weapon and body, explosively increasing the power of both, although the weapon must have strong divine protection to withstand the energies. \n\nShe possesses the Noble Phantasm , a celestial sword constructed by the world from the collective wishes of mankind and fueled through a conversion of Mana into photoelectric energy, allowing a wave of destructive energy to be released from the tip when swung. Another Noble Phantasm she possesses is , which compresses and gyrates the air around Saber's blade, turning the blade invisible, making it hard for opponents to judge her strikes, and allowing a one-time release of the air in the form of an intense gust. It also serves to help hide her identity - Excalibur's fame being so great that any other Servant would recognise it the moment they laid eyes on it.\n\nHer third Noble Phantasm, the scabbard of Excalibur, , bequeaths limited immortality through regenerative stimulation, prevents physical deterioration due to aging, and when activated, is capable of protecting the user from virtually any attack. She also has a fourth Noble Phantasm, , the sword she initially pulled from the stone as a child. This sword is Saber's favourite, being of a more decorative nature than Excalibur, but was broken during her lifetime. \n\nSaber is a strong-willed young woman who always speaks resolutely. She is courageous, determined, and set on winning the Holy Grail. During the events of \"Fate/Zero\", she expresses great hostility towards Kiritsugu due to their differing viewpoints. Believing strongly in the concept of chivalry and a just war, she often clashes with Kiritsugu whose belief is that all war is inherently evil. By the end of the War, Saber is traumatized by being forced to kill Lancelot, her closest friend, after discovering that he is the war's Berserker class servant. She became obsessed with obtaining the Grail at all costs, but was forced to destroy it by Kiritsugu, who realized it had been corrupted into granting only evil desires. Saber, overwhelmed by her guilt and the betrayal of her master, finally breaks down as she is obliterated by the light of the grail and is returned to the blood-soaked battlefields of Camlann.\n\nSaber's wish is in regard to her duty as King of Britain. After turning into a heroic spirit and seeing her country turn to ruins, she decides that she wants to change the past, thus changing her country's future. This wish is criticized by many characters in Fate/Zero not for being impossible, but for being purely selfish in nature. Saber is willing to sacrifice her own self for her country, but only because of her strong sense of justice and duty, and because of her selfish ideal to try and save everybody, much like Shirou. However, after learning of the Holy Grail's true nature, she finally accepts that her wish cannot be granted and casts it aside in order to save the world that Shirō had summoned her in together with him.\n\nSaber tends to be rather silent in social situations and unwilling to show emotions, as she has suppressed them so strongly and views herself as a knight foremost. However, even though she attempts to hide them, her insecurities become more and more apparent. Later on in Fate/stay night, Saber begins to open up more and show her emotions more easily, especially to Shiro. A prominent theme in Fate/stay night is that, when she became King Arthur, Saber sacrificed what was most important to her: her humanity. It is implied that during her life before becoming the King of Knights, Altria was a dreamy, idealistic, innocent young girl. Her developing relationship with Shiro is fundamental to the growth of her character, as he is the first person to view and treat Saber as a fellow human being rather than a weapon or a servant. This is in sharp contrast to Kiritsugu, who only saw her as a magus' tool and refused to openly acknowledge her existence. A comedic aspect about her is that she is shown as having a humongous appetite, finishing large servings of rice within minutes.\n\nAt the conclusion of the prequel, \"Fate/Zero\", Saber was ordered to destroy the Holy Grail by her then-master, Kiritsugu Emiya via use of two back-to-back Command Seals, but only succeeded in destroying its physical form and was thus summoned again by Shirō Emiya to fight in the Fifth War during the events of \"Fate/stay night\". In both wars, her wish to the Grail is to redo her life so that a better person would take her place as king of Britain.\n\nIn the \"Fate\" route of \"Fate/stay night\", Shirō falls in love with Saber. At first, despite reciprocating, Saber refused to accept Shirō's feelings because of her duty to her country being at the foremost as a King as well as being uncomfortable with how much she sees her own lack of self-worth mirrored in him. Despite this, Shirō still does his utmost to convince Saber that what happened in the past cannot be changed, and that trying to change it was nothing but a fool's errand. Once she finds out that the Holy Grail she believed to be omnipotent was actually corrupt and causes only death, she accepted that her noble wish was indeed impossible to accomplish, and works with Shirō to save the world she was summoned in. She then destroys the Holy Grail with Excalibur, and after finally accepting Shirō's feelings and confessing her own, is sent back to her original time, dying on the hill. In the \"Last Episode\" epilogue, Saber accepts herself for who she is and forgoes becoming a Heroic Spirit so as to wait for Shirō in Avalon, the mystical land where only true heroes may reside. She waits for many lifetimes before Shirō finally earns the right to ascend to Avalon, where the two are finally reunited to be together forever.\n\nIn the \"Unlimited Blade Works\" route of \"Fate/stay night\", Saber is stabbed by Caster's \"Rule Breaker\", and was forced to become her Servant. Caster then uses her command spell to force Saber to kill Shirō and Rin Tohsaka, but she then shows her extraordinary magical resistance by resisting the absolute binding power of the command spell, giving Rin and Shirō time to escape. After Caster is killed by Archer, Rin then forges a contract with her, becoming her new Master; however, despite being Rin's Servant, she remains loyal to Shirō since she was summoned by him and has pledged her allegiance and loyalty to him. She then destroys the Holy Grail with Excalibur. In the Good End of this scenario, she lives on in the world as one of Rin's familiars along with Shirō in a polyamorous relationship with the two. In the True End, she disappears, similar to the \"Fate\" Scenario.\n\nIn the \"Heaven's Feel\" route of \"Fate/stay night\", Saber is consumed by the Holy Grail during a battle with True Assassin and becomes a vastly stronger, corrupted version of her former self, Saber Alter, and a Servant under Sakura Matō. In the Normal End and True End, Saber Alter is defeated and killed by Shirō with the help of Rider after a great deal of internal conflict within Shirō, in which he is forced to kill off his memories of Saber and how she has saved him many times as his Servant in order to kill Saber herself and save Sakura. In one of the bad ends, Saber Alter is defeated by Shirō in one-on-one combat, at the cost of the latter's mind. Saber was, at first, pleased with Shirō's victory over her, but after seeing what the battle cost him, she once again becomes apathetic and announces her victory. Despite this, Saber reveals that she no longer cares about the War or the battle between Rin and Sakura, as \"the one who blessed them\" is gone forever.\n\nIn the fandisc/sequel, \"Fate/hollow ataraxia\", Saber continues to protect Shirō, though it seems their relationship has turned more towards Saber having the major control over her relationship with Shirō and, if the player chooses, can be pursued romantically once more. She kills Archer when he attacks Shirō in one loop. In another loop, Saber is killed by Bazett's Fragrach when she tried to use Excalibur on Bazett. In the final loop of Fate/hollow ataraxia, Saber aids Shirō/Avenger in reaching the Grail by fending off the mysterious monsters (which were in fact leftover parts of Avenger wishing to continue the loop) with other Heroic Spirits. It is also shown that when the stray hair on her head is pulled, she reverts to her Alter form. Saber Alter is portrayed here as being crude and obsessed with fast food and bad food in general, in direct opposition to Saber's love of Shirō's cooking.\n\nSaber has appeared in the anime and manga versions of \"Fate/stay night\" and the movie \"Unlimited Blade Works\". Three of versions of Saber (Saber, Saber Alter, Saber Lily) appeared in the game \"Fate/unlimited codes\", released on PS2 and PSP. A Lion form of Saber also appeared in \"Fate/tiger colosseum\". She, along with other characters from \"Tsukihime\", \"Melty Blood\", and the rest of the cast of \"Fate/stay night\", appears in the 2011 anime \"Carnival Phantasm\". \"Fate/Zero\", another anime adaptation of the novel of the same name, has been released in 2011, with Saber acting as Kiritsugu's servant in the fourth Holy Grail War. Numerous figures of Saber have been created, including all three forms of her and a keychain replica of her sword.\n\nShe also appeared in \"Fate/Grand Order\" as her multiple forms (Saber Alter and Saber Lily) as well as her newer forms (Lancer and Lancer Alter) and gag forms (an Archer and Rider Alter form wearing a swimsuit and maid outfit respectively, as well as another rider form as \"Santa Alter\") introduced in the game. She is one of the Servants of Ritsuka Fujimaru of the Grand Order conflicts of Fate/Grand Order. She additionally appears in \"Fate/Extella\" as a secret playable character.\n\nGen Urobuchi believes Saber's relationship with Shirou doesn't seem like a realistic relationship between a male and a female, but a complicated relationship with a boy who became a girl. He further explains that it is not a relationship fueled by instinct like the relationship between a man and a woman, but a romance of logic between two people who need each other from the heart. He thinks the Fate route could have been told as a story through the ancient Greek views on love. Kinoko Nasu responded to Gen by saying that it's difficult to call the relationship between Shirou and Saber a relationship between a man and a woman. Saber has fought for a long time as the ruler of Britain, but then turned into a girl all of a sudden and fell in love with Shirou. It's pretty ridiculous when you think about it. But I really wanted to push it towards that sort of boy-meets-girl story. So as a last resort, I had Shirou continually say things to her like \"But you're a girl,\" and \"Girls aren't supposed to fight,\" in order to remind the users that \"she is really a girl.\" It's like the author's actually the one trying to convince Saber that she's a girl... I feel like I could have written it a lot better now, but that was the best I could do at the time. It's true that Rin is different from Saber. Rin is written as a completely different gender. She also has a sort of pride in the fact that she's a beautiful girl. With a girl like that by his side, even an unsociable person like Shirou loses his presence of mind. \n\nIn the Type-Moon Fes. 10th Anniversary Event, she was ranked 1st amongst all characters created by Type-Moon and has effectively become the \"Fate\" franchise's mascot. Mania Entertainment's Chris Beveridge liked the development of Saber across the series particularly her team ups with Shiro. He shared similar comments when talking about the romantic relationship between her and Shirou. Similarly, DVDTalk enjoyed this and claimed \"the Master/Servant relationship is an interesting one and though Saber appears to be robotic at times there are glimmers of feelings beneath her cold exterior.\" Anime News Network's Carlo Santos praised her fight against Lancer in \"Fate/Zero\" which served as a good counterpart to expositions in the story. Anime News Network's Carl Kimlinger referred to her and Archer as \"the only spices\" of the series. Kimlinger later highly praised the character as \"Saber alone is worth the price of admission\" when watching the series, also commenting on her fight scenes. He added \"the results are positively exhilarating, cementing Saber's status as one of the coolest heroines to come down the anime turnpike in quite some time.\" IGN's Jeff Harris said that Shirou and Saber's growing relationship was \"Fate/stay night\" most interesting plotline and that the romantic tension there between the two is something to look forward to over the course of the rest of the series.\n"}
{"id": "9317212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9317212", "title": "Sex Week at Yale", "text": "Sex Week at Yale\n\nOrganized originally in 2002 by then Yale College students Eric Rubenstein and Jacqueline Farber, Sex Week at Yale is a biennial event described on its website as \"an interdisciplinary sex education program designed to pique students’ interest through creative, interactive, and exciting programming.\" Sex Week at Yale explores love, sex, intimacy and relationships by focusing on how sexuality is manifested in America, helping students to reconcile these issues in their own lives. The week gives students access to professionals both in the classroom and during informal events, including debates, seminars, fashion shows, concerts, and discussions. The events provide students the opportunity to learn about love, sex, intimacy, and relationships from experienced professionals who deal with these issues every day in their professional lives.\n\nIn 2002, Eric Rubens approached Jacqueline Farber, head of Student Health Education division of Yale Health Services, which conducted the sexual health orientations for freshmen and which had previously given sexual health talks around Valentine's Day, with the idea of hosting a campus-wide event including guest speakers and other sexual health events. With the Student Health Education's support, other groups, such as the Women's Center and the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Co-op, agreed to co-sponsor the project, and \"Sex Week at Yale\" was born. \nThe event was composed of talks by a number of Yale professors, a series of talks by Yale's peer health educators, a film festival and a celebrity panel entitled \"Sex and Entertainment\".\n\nSex Week at Yale in its current form takes a multi-disciplinary approach, enlisting a diversity of speakers from company executives, to sex therapists, to professors, clergy, adult film stars, and everyone in between.\n\nIn February, 2012, Sex Week was organized by an Executive Board of Directors for the first time in its ten-year history. Directors included seniors Allie Bauer, Paul Holmes, Tatiana Lam, and Courtney Peters and juniors Connie Cho, Alberto Navarro, Anna North, and Leeron Tur-Kaspa. The ten-day program contained over fifty events, all of which were funded by grassroots efforts given the newly imposed restriction on corporate sponsorship.\n\nIn February 2006, nearly 25,000 copies of “Sex Week at Yale: The Magazine” were distributed among 18 of the country’s best-known universities, including all schools in the Ivy League.\n\nAmong the magazine's notable contributors included Jim Griffiths, President of the Playboy Entertainment Group, John Gray, Ph.D., author of “Men Are From Mars Women Are From Venus” and columnists from such publications as Cosmopolitan, Men’s Health and Maxim.\n2004 Collegiate Network Campus Outrage Award - first place\n\n2006 Trojan Sexual Health Report Card - first place and only school with a perfect score\n\nIn 2011, Yale alumnus Nathan Harden published \"Sex and God at Yale: Porn, Political Correctness, and a Good Education Gone Bad.\" The book was highly critical of Sex Week at Yale, and its title harkened to the criticism of Yale that William F. Buckley, Jr. made in 1951 with his book God and Man at Yale.\n\nIn the fall of 2011, a group of Yale students formed an organization called Undergraduates for a Better Yale College (UBCY), to \"...advocate for a better sexual culture, one grounded in genuine respect and self-giving love; to oppose campus attitudes and events that offer a degrading and trivializing vision of sexuality... .\" In September 2011, UBCY petitioned the Yale administration to deny Sex Week at Yale support, including the use of classrooms and other university facilities. In the February 2012, UBCY hosted its own \"True Love Week,\" with events focusing on chastity, love, marriage, and what it sees as the faults of Yale's sexual culture.\n\nEvents called Sex Week have also been held at:\n\nSafer Sex Weeks were held at University of Minnesota in February 2014 and at Oberlin College in November 2013. The Campus Health Service at Arizona State University held a SexTalk week in February 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "27680557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27680557", "title": "Skip lesion", "text": "Skip lesion\n\nA skip lesion is a wound or inflammation that is clearly patchy, \"skipping\" areas that thereby are unharmed. It is a typical form of intestinal damage in Crohn's disease, but may also be the kind of damage to the renal tubules in acute tubular necrosis. Rarely, it is a characteristic of temporal arteritis.\n"}
{"id": "58826631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58826631", "title": "Smoking in Latvia", "text": "Smoking in Latvia\n\nSmoking in Latvia is currently regulated through the implementation of multiple policies and laws against the use and consumption of tobacco products. Many of these regulations resulted from the Fifty-Sixth World Health Assembly in 2003, after which Latvia adopted the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (WHO FCTC). Latvia has higher prevalences of smoking tobacco in children and adults than many other European countries, where in 2014, it was reported that 37.6% of adults currently smoked tobacco (53.6% of all adult males and 22.3% of all adult females). These high prevalences also occur in children, where the Global Youth Tobacco Survey (GYTS) in 2011 found that 40.5% of children in grades 7 through 9 reported current tobacco use, while 31.5% were smoking cigarettes. The percentage of children smoking tobacco decreased between the years of 2011 and 2014, where another GYTS survey indicated that 24.7% of youth from grades 7 through 9 regularly smoked tobacco.\n\nCurrently, Latvia upholds the smoking standards set by the World Health Organization by following the FCTC MPOWER tobacco control methods. These measures include monitoring tobacco usage, protecting the public from passive smoking, offering the means to quit smoking, warning the public of the associated dangers, enforcing bans and regulations, and raising taxes on tobacco products. Multiple laws have been implemented in the last twenty years with these measures in mind that aim to address the dangers of smoking tobacco on an individual's health along with the health of those around them. \n\nIn 1995, the advertisement of tobacco products on radio and on television was prohibited. Four years later, the advertisement of tobacco products was only allowed in certain publications that were intended for tobacco merchants and producers, and packaging of tobacco products was required to adhere to certain images and to contain at least two warnings against the dangers of smoking tobacco. By 2005, it was entirely prohibited to smoke in schools and smoking in hospitals, restaurants, correctional facilities, workplaces, casinos, hotels, and other public spaces was prohibited unless within a designated smoking area. As of 2010, it is illegal to sell any smokeless tobacco products and to manufacture or sell cigarettes that exceed 1 mg of nicotine, and health warnings are required to cover approximately half of the surface area of all cigarette packs. In 2013, Latvia passed a by-law on the State Commission on Restriction of Smoking. This state institution was given the task of ensuring the citizens' rights to smoke-free air, by coordinating and submitting proposals on smoking prevention programs and tobacco product requirements. \n"}
{"id": "19467729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19467729", "title": "Society of Mental Welfare Officers", "text": "Society of Mental Welfare Officers\n\nThe Society of Mental Welfare Officers (SMWO) was a professional body for social workers (then called Mental Welfare Officers) in the United Kingdom. It was established in 1954 by the amalgamation of the National Association of Authorised Officers and the Mental Health Workers' Association.\n\nIn 1970 the society merged with six other social workers' organisations to form the British Association of Social Workers, having been a member of the Standing Conference of Organisations of Social Workers since 1962.\n"}
{"id": "17944608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17944608", "title": "Surajkund", "text": "Surajkund\n\nSurajkund (सुरजकुण्ड) is an ancient reservoir of the 10th century located in Faridabad about 8 km (5 miles) from South Delhi.\nSurajkund (literal meaning is 'Lake of the Sun') is an artificial Kund (‘Kund’ means \"lake\" or reservoir) built in the backdrop of the Aravalli hills with an amphitheatre shaped embankment constructed in semicircular form. It is said to have been built by the king Suraj Pal of Tomar dynasty in the 10th century. Tomar was a sun worshipper and he had therefore built a Sun temple on its western bank.\n\nAnother 'kund' by the same name as ‘Suraj Kund’ existed in Sunam city, tahsil and sub-division of the Sangrur District in Punjab. This was sacked by Mahmood Ghaznvi or Taimur Lane. The temple is now in ruins.\n\nSurajkund is known for its annual fair \"Surajkund International Craft Mela\", 2015 edition of this fair was visited by 1.2 million visitors including 160,000 foreigners with more than 20 countries participating in it.\n\nSurajkund is located near the Surajkund village between the villages of Baharpur and Lakkarpur in Faridabad district of Haryana. The lake's drainage basin is part of the Aravalli hill ranges. It is fed from the north western side by a local nullah (stream) that initially feeds the Anagpur dam on the upstream.\n\nThe storage in the tank or lake has been seriously affected since the catchment area contributing flows into the Surajkund (lake) from villages such as Anangpur, Lakkarpur, Ankhir and Meola Maharajpur has been used for extensive mining and for large habitations, which has disturbed the drainage system and thus obstructed the gravity flow of rain water from the basin into the reservoir. This situation is stated to have also affected the flora and fauna of the area.\n\nIn the Aravalli hill ranges, which spreads over Delhi and Haryana, where the Surajkund and the Anagpur Dam are located, ancient Stone Age relics have been revealed. The Aravallis, which strike out in two directions from Delhi exhibits a topography of low and rugged hills. The stratigraphy in the area is considered to consist of reddish rocks and scrub and has the luxuriance of the Stone Age progression. Stone Age material have been unearthed in the region at 43 sites on the road from Delhi to Surajkund and south of the Suraj Kund-Faridabad road, Anangpur hills and Ankhir pahari on the road on the low ridge from Faridabad to Surajkund. The Stone Age relics comprise Microliths and lower Paleolithics.\n\nFrom a study of the prehistoric findings along the ridges of Surajkund reservoir, Anagpur Dam, and around Delhi and adjoining parts of Haryana, it has been inferred that the southern hilly area of Delhi and Haryana was environmentally suited for pre-historic man to settle here.\n\nAccording to bardic tradition (a tradition steeped in the history and traditions of clan and country) the Tomar kings who initially lived near the Aravalli hills shifted to the Surajkund area near Lal Kot, which was built by the Tomars. Lal Kot was renamed as Qila Rai Pithora, after Prithvi Raj Chauhan (the second last Hindu king of Delhi). Archaeological excavations have revealed existence of a Sun temple here based on ruins that can be seen even now. Certain carved stones were recently recovered from the reservoir. Some stones have also been re–used in subsequent restoration works. Some historians also claim that it was named after King Surajpal himself who built it. It is also said that Suraj Pal built this lake for his daughter.\n\nDuring the Tughlaq Dynasty rule of Feroz Shah Tughlaq (1351–88), the reservoir was refurbished by rebuilding the steps and terraces with stones in lime mortar. On the western bank of the reservoir, a \"garhi\" (cave like structure) was built close to the ancient site of the Sun temple.\n\nThough historians have not specifically alluded to this tank, it is also said that it was built in 686 AD by Suraj Pal (after whom the tank is probably named) son of Anang Pal I. It is in the form of a segment (semi circular) with the chord on its west side. Another theory for the name 'Suraj' suffixed to the kund (lake) is that it was named after the Sun Temple that existed on the east side of the lake.\n\nEven though the Tomar dynasty vanished in the 12th century, the Surajkund has not been affected. It attracted the attention of the Haryana Government to develop the area as a tourist spot by introducing an annual crafts 'Mela' or \"fair\" titled \"Surajkund Crafts Mela\" in the precincts of the lake, which over the years has attracted wide publicity and become an iconic event.\n\nThe reservoir has been built in the shape of the rising sun with an eastward arc. It is enclosed within a steep embankment made in semi-circular shape made of stepped stones. Rain fall was intercepted here to create a reservoir of diameter to meet the water shortage in Delhi. It has an area of . The reservoir provides a grand spectacle, and in the past it was the hunting forest resort. It abounds in dancing peacocks. The reservoir is filled up during every monsoon season but remains dry during summer, before the onset of the monsoon rains. The tank underwent major repairs in the 1920s during the British times.\n\nA natural spring called the Siddha–Kund, held in reverence, is seen about to the south of Surajkund, which is frequented by pilgrims.\n\nTwo kilometres (1.2 mi) away to the south west of Surajkund, there is more ancient Anagpur Dam of the 8th century.\n\n\"Asola Bhatti Wild Life Sanctuary\" is on the Southern Ridge of the northern terminal of Aravalli Hills, close to the Surajkund. It acts as the green lung & carbon sink for Delhi. A trail of exhibits floral & faunal diversity along the topography of the area of Aravalli Mountain Range which is now a protected area. Anogeissus, Balanite & riparian belt of Aravali are seen in small reaches. Mine pits in this area are proposed to be developed as wetland habitat, which is likely to improve the ground water regime in the area.\n\nIn the backdrop of the lake, during the spring season, every year from 1–15 February, (in 2018, it is from 2-18 February) a colourful traditional craft festival of India is held in the precincts of Surajkund. This fair was first started in 1987. Traditional craftsmen (artists, painters, weavers and sculptors) from all parts of the country participate in this annual celebration named as the \"Surajkund Crafts Mela\" or \"Surajkund designer’s Village\". Designer items created by 50 best designers and craftsmen in wood, metal, bamboo, iron, glass, textiles and stone can be seen here. This Mela (fair) is visited by lovers of arts and crafts from all over the world. The fair is held with a different theme every year on Indian culture and crafts.\n\nThe theme, specific to a state of India, is depicted at the entrance to the Mela grounds and provides an ambience of that particular state with characteristic colors, materials, architecture, furniture and decorations. The crafts on display in the stalls (400) is of particular crafts of that state. The Mela also includes a food festival covering some of the popular cuisines from different parts of the country. Entertainment in the form of famous rhythms and dance of folk theatre are also held here during the festival.\n\nDuring 2009, with Madhya Pradesh as the theme state, 50 crafts' persons from SAARC countries, Thailand and Egypt also participated in the Mela. The show was titled \"Hemvati-Khajuraho\" as a part of the 23rd annual Surajkund Crafts Fair event. Sanchi Stupa, (a world heritage site in Madhya Pradesh) formed the backdrop for the festival.\n\n2015 edition of fair was visited by 1.2 million visitors including 160,000 foreigners. In 2016 edition China will be participating in the fair as a part of agreement signed between India and China to celebrate 2016 as \"Year of China in India\".\n\nThe ecological disaster that is causing the rapid depletion of ground water in the Aravalli hill range between Tughlaqabad and Gurugram via Surajkund due to indiscriminate mining has invited the attention of the Supreme Court of India through the efforts of environmental activist. This activity is also stated to be affecting the adjoining Asola Forest and Wildlife Sanctuary. Consequent to a writ petition filed by the Delhi Ridge Management Board, the Supreme Court has asked the Haryana Government \"to stop all mining activities and pumping of groundwater within a (), radius of the Delhi-Haryana border in the Haryana Ridge and in the Aravali hills.\"\n\nSurajkund, also called the Peacock lake, because of its delightful beauty is now a well known tourism destination in Haryana state. Activities of water sports such as Kayaking are also an attraction at this lake. It is by road from South Delhi and from the heart of the New Delhi city. It is well connected to all parts of the city. The nearest airport is the Indira Gandhi International Airport, away. The nearest railway stations are the New Delhi Railway Station and the Nizamuddin Railway Station, and respectively by road. It is also approached by road and rail from Faridabad (headquarters of the district) and Gurgaon cities. It is from the Qutub Minar and Tughlaqabad, two historical.\n\n"}
{"id": "319881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=319881", "title": "Vaginitis", "text": "Vaginitis\n\nVaginitis, also known as vulvovaginitis, is inflammation of the vagina and vulva. Symptoms may include itching, burning, pain, discharge, and a bad smell. Certain types of vaginitis may result in complications during pregnancy.\nThe three main causes are infections, specifically bacterial vaginosis, vaginal yeast infection, and trichomoniasis. Other causes include allergies to substances such as spermicides or soaps or as a result of low estrogen levels during breast-feeding or after menopause. More than one cause may exist at a time. The common causes vary by age.\nDiagnosis generally include examination, measuring the pH, and culturing the discharge. Other causes of symptoms such as inflammation of the cervix, pelvic inflammatory disease, cancer, foreign bodies, and skin conditions should be ruled out.\nTreatment depends on the underlying cause. Infections should be treated. Sitz baths may help with symptoms. Soaps and feminine hygiene products such as sprays should not be used. About a third of women have vaginitis at some point in time. Women of reproductive age are most often affected. \n\nA woman may have vaginal itching or burning and may notice a discharge.\n\nThe discharge may be excessive in amounts or abnormal in color(such as yellow, gray, or green).\n\nThe following symptoms may indicate the presence of infection:\n\nVaginal infections left untreated can lead to further complications, especially for the pregnant woman. For bacterial vaginosis, these include \"premature delivery, postpartum infections, clinically apparent and subclinical pelvic inflammatory disease, [as well as] postsurgical complications (after abortion, hysterectomy, caesarian section), increased vulnerability to HIV infection and, possibly, infertility\". Studies have also linked trichomoniasis with increased likelihood of acquiring HIV; theories include that \"vaginitis increases the number of immune cells at the site of infection, and HIV then infects those immune cells.\" Other theories suggest that trichomoniasis increases the amount of HIV genital shedding, thereby increasing the risk of transmission to sexual partners. While the exact association between trichomoniasis infection and HIV genital shedding has not been consistently demonstrated, \"there is good evidence that TV treatment reduces HIV genital shedding. Five studies were reported in the literature and, of these, four found a decrease in HIV genital shedding after TV treatment.\"\n\nFurther, there are complications which lead to daily discomfort such as:\n\n\nVaginitis is the disruption of the healthy vaginal microbiota. The vaginal microbiota consists of those organisms which generally do not cause symptoms, infections, and results in good pregnancy outcomes, and is dominated mainly by Lactobacillus species. The disruption of the normal microbiota can cause a vaginal yeast infection. Vaginal yeast infection can affect women of all ages and is very common. The yeast \"Candida albicans\" is the most common cause of vaginitis. Specific forms of vaginal inflammation include the following types:\n\nInfectious vaginitis accounts for 90% of all cases in reproductive age women:\n\nOther less common infections are caused by gonorrhea, chlamydia, \"Mycoplasma\", herpes, \"Campylobacter\", improper hygiene, and some parasites, notably \"Trichomonas vaginalis\". Women who have diabetes develop infectious vaginitis more often than women who do not.\n\nVaginal infections often have multiple causes (varies between countries between 20 and 40% of vaginal infections), which present challenging cases for treatment. Indeed, when only one cause is treated, the other pathogens can become resistant to treatment and induce relapses and recurrences. Therefore, the key factor is to get a precise diagnosis and treat with broad spectrum anti-infective agents (often also inducing adverse effects).\n\nFurther, either a change in pH balance or introduction of foreign bacteria in the vagina can lead to infectious vaginitis. Physical factors that have been claimed to contribute to the development of infections include the following: constantly wet vulva due to tight clothing, chemicals coming in contact with the vagina via scented tampons, antibiotics, birth control pills, or a diet favoring refined sugar and yeast.\n\nHormonal vaginitis includes atrophic vaginitis usually found in postmenopausal women.\n\nIrritant vaginitis can be caused by allergies or reactions to vaginal sprays, douches, spermicides, soaps, detergents, or fabric softeners. It can also be caused by hot tubs, abrasion, tissue, tampons, or topical medications.\n\nForeign body vaginitis (most common foreign bodies are retained tampons or condoms) may cause extremely malodorous vaginal discharges. Treatment consists of removal, for which ring forceps may be useful. Further treatment is generally not necessary.\n\nDiagnosis is typically suspected based on a women's symptoms. Diagnosis is made with microscopy (mostly by vaginal wet mount) and culture of the discharge after a careful history and physical examination have been completed. The color, consistency, acidity, and other characteristics of the discharge may be predictive of the causative agent. Determining the agent is especially important because women may have more than one infection, or have symptoms that overlap those of another infection, which dictates different treatment processes to cure the infection. For example, women often self-diagnose for yeast infections but due to the 89% misdiagnosis rate, self-diagnoses of vaginal infections are highly discouraged.\n\nAnother type of vaginitis, called desquamative inflammatory vaginitis (DIV) also exists. The cause behind this type is still poorly understood. DIV corresponds to the severe forms of aerobic vaginitis. About 5 to 10% of women are affected by aerobic vaginitis.\n\nThe International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems codes for the several causes of vaginitis are:\n\nPrevention of candidiasis, the most common type of vaginitis, includes using loose cotton underwear. The vaginal area should be washed with water. Perfumed soaps, shower gels, and vaginal deodorants should be avoided. Douching is not recommended. The practice upsets the normal balance of yeast in the vagina and does more harm than good.\n\nPrevention of bacterial vaginosis includes healthy diets and behaviors as well as minimizing stress as all these factors can affect the pH balance of the vagina.\n\nPrevention of trichomoniasis revolves around avoiding other people's wet towels and hot tubs, and safe-sex procedures, such as condom use.\nSome women consume good bacteria in food with live culture, such as yogurt, sauerkraut and kimchi, or in probiotic supplements either to try to prevent candidiasis, or to reduce the likelihood of developing bacterial vaginitis following antibiotic treatment. There is no firm evidence to suggest that eating live yogurt or taking probiotic supplements will prevent candidiasis.\n\nStudies have suggested a possible clinical role for the use of standardized oral or vaginal probiotics in the treatment of bacterial vaginosis, either in addition to or in place of the typical antibiotic regimens. However, recent articles question their efficacy in preventing recurrence compared with other means, or conclude that there is insufficient evidence for or against recommending probiotics for the treatment of bacterial vaginosis.\n\nThe cause of the infection determines the appropriate treatment. It may include oral or topical antibiotics and/or antifungal creams, antibacterial creams, or similar medications. A cream containing cortisone may also be used to relieve some of the irritation. If an allergic reaction is involved, an antihistamine may also be prescribed. For women who have irritation and inflammation caused by low levels of estrogen (postmenopausal), a topical estrogen cream might be prescribed.\n\nThe following are typical treatments for trichomoniasis, bacterial vaginosis, and yeast infections:\n\n\nTreatment can include topical steroids to diminish the inflammation. Antibiotics to diminish the proportion of aerobic bacteria is still a matter of debate. The use of local antibiotics, preferably local non-absorbed and broad spectrum, covering enteric gram-positive and gram-negative aerobes, can be an option. In some cases, systemic antibiotics can be helpful, such as amoxicillin/clavulanate or moxifloxacin. Vaginal rinsing with povidone iodine can provide relief of symptoms but does not provide long-term reduction of bacterial loads. Dequalinium chloride can also be an option for treatment.\n\nVulvovaginitis in children may be \"nonspecific\", or caused by irritation with no known infectious cause, or infectious, caused by a pathogenic organism. Nonspecific vulvovaginitis may be triggered by fecal contamination, sexual abuse, chronic diseases, foreign bodies, nonestrogenized epithelium, chemical irritants, eczema, seborrhea, or immunodeficiency. It is treated with topical steroids; antibiotics may be given in cases where itching has resulted in a secondary infection.\n\nInfectious vulvovaginitis can be caused by group A beta-hemolytic \"Streptococcus\" (7-20% of cases), \"Haemophilus influenzae, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Staphylococcus aureus, Shigella, Yersinia\", or common STI organisms (\"Neisseria gonorrhoeae, Chlamydia trachomatis, Trichomonas vaginalis\", herpes simplex virus, and human papillomavirus)\".\" Symptoms and treatment of infectious vulvovaginitis vary depending on the organism causing it. \"Shigella\" infections of the reproductive tract usually coexist with infectious of the gastrointestinal tract and cause mucous, purulent discharge. They are treated with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole. \"Streptococcus\" infections cause similar symptoms to nonspecific vulvovaginitis and are treated with amoxicillin. STI-associated vulvovaginitis may be caused by sexual abuse or vertical transmission, and are treated and diagnosed like adult infections.\n\n"}
{"id": "16953406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16953406", "title": "Veterinary chiropractic", "text": "Veterinary chiropractic\n\nVeterinary chiropractic, also known as animal chiropractic, is the practice of spinal manipulation or manual therapy for animals. Veterinary chiropractors typically treat horses, racing greyhounds, and pets. It has become a fast developing field in animal alternative medicine.\nIt remains controversial within certain segments of the veterinary and chiropractic profession. There is some degree of risk associated with even skilled manipulation in animals as the potential for injury exists with any technique used.\nThe founder of chiropractic, Daniel David Palmer, used the method on animals, partly to challenge claims that the placebo effect was responsible for favorable results in humans. Chiropractic treatment of large animals dates back to the early 1900s. , 40 states in the US provide statutory or regulatory guidelines for the practice of chiropractic and related treatments on animals, generally requiring some form of veterinary involvement.\n\nVeterinary chiropractors typically treat horses, racing greyhounds, and pets. Some animal chiropractors perform adjusts on exotic animals such as birds, dolphins elephants, iguanas, turkeys, pigs, and llamas. It has become a fast developing area. A 2011 survey in New Zealand found that use of animal chiropractic on competition race horses is widespread.\n\nThe American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA) guidelines recommend that a veterinarian should examine an animal and establish a preliminary diagnosis before any alternative treatment, like chiropractic, is initiated. Before performing a chiropractic adjustment, the chiropractor examines the animal's gait, posture, and the vertebrae and extremities. The chiropractor may also make neurological evaluations. In addition to spinal manipulation, other adjustive procedures can be performed to the extremity joints and cranial sutures. Those that specialize in horses are referred to as \"equine chiropractors.\"\n\nThe AVMA lists chiropractic as a complementary and alternative treatment (CAVM). Other CAVM treatments include acupuncture and physical therapy. The AVMA Model Veterinary Practice Act includes CAVM in the definition of veterinary medicine, and that standard has been adopted in 20 states . An additional 20 states have enacted other provisions regarding the use of CAVM on animals, most of which require some type of veterinary input such as supervision or referral. Veterinary chiropractic is not recognized by the American Chiropractic Association as being chiropractic.\n\nLimited evidence exists on the efficacy of osteopathic or chiropractic methods in equine therapy. There is limited evidence supporting the effectiveness of spinal manipulation or mobilization for equine pain management, and the efficacy of specific equine manual therapy techniques is mostly anecdotal. Together, the American Animal Hospital Association and the American Association of Feline Practitioners stated in 2015 that there was insufficient \"reliable, noncontradictory evidence\" for veterinary chiropractic methods in the management of pain.<ref name=\"AAHA/AAFP\"></ref> The practice remains controversial.\n\nThere is some degree of risk associated with even skilled manipulation in animals as the potential for injury exists with any technique used. This risk may increase in the presence of structural disease, such as equine cervical vertebral malformation (CVM) or canine intervertebral disk disease. Horses have been hurt by very forceful animal chiropractic movements. Adjusting the spine of a dog with a degenerative disk runs the risk of serious injury to the spinal cord.\n\nChiropractic treatment of large animals dates back to the early 1900s. The founder of the field of chiropractic, spiritualist Daniel David Palmer used the method on animals, partly to challenge claims that the placebo effect was responsible for favorable results in humans. In the 1980s, it began to be seen on the margins of veterinary medicine. By the late 1980s, a veterinarian who also was a chiropractor, Sharon Willoughby, developed a training program. With the emergence of veterinary chiropractic, both doctors of chiropractic (DCs) and veterinary medicine (DVMs) became able to take additional training to become certified in veterinary chiropractic. The primary certifier in North America is The Animal Chiropractic Certification Commission (ACCC) of the American Veterinary Chiropractic Association (AVCA). Earning certification from the ACCC requires attending an ACCC-approved animal chiropractic program followed by ACCC written and clinical examinations. In some locations, a veterinarian must supervise the treatment provided by a veterinary chiropractor.\n\n"}
{"id": "34004632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34004632", "title": "Water, Land and Ecosystems", "text": "Water, Land and Ecosystems\n\nWater, Land and Ecosystems is one of several new research programmes approved by the CGIAR during 2011 after an extensive period of consultation that began in 2009. This research programme will draw on the resources of 14 CGIAR and numerous external partners to provide a more integrated approach to research into managing natural resources. The aim of the research programme is to increase agricultural productivity while protecting the environment, so food security is ensured for most of humanity and that poverty becomes history. The five main strands to the programme are: River basins; Irrigation systems; Information systems; Resource reuse and recovery; and Rainfed agriculture systems. \n\nA report released by UNEP and the International Water Management Institute (IWMI – which comes under the CGIAR umbrella and will be a major contributor to the new research programme), exemplifies the concept of conducting agriculture within healthy ecosystems. Current farming methods have resulted in over-stretched water resources, high levels of erosion and reduced soil fertility. According to the report, there is not enough water to continue farming using current practices; therefore how we use critical water, land, and ecosystem resources to boost crop yields must be reconsidered. The report suggested that we need to assign value to ecosystems, recognize environmental and livelihood tradeoffs, and balance the rights of a variety of users and interests. We would also need to address inequities that result when such measures are adopted, such as the reallocation of water from poor to rich, the clearing of land to make way for more productive farmland, or the preservation of a wetland system that limits fishing rights.\n\n"}
