{"id": "58683697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58683697", "title": "2010 gang rapes in Cleveland, Texas", "text": "2010 gang rapes in Cleveland, Texas\n\nThe 2010 gang rapes in Cleveland, Texas were a series of acts of sexual violence committed by a group of adult men and teenage boys on an underage girl in the town of Cleveland, in Texas, USA.\nThe victim was the 11-year old daughter of Mexican immigrants, living in Cleveland, Texas, a \"timber town\" of about nine thousand people in the Greater Houston metropolitan area and Liberty County. Her father was a former construction worker, unemployed at the time for a year and a half because of a back injury, while her mother was working making change in a slot game room.\n\nThe group of perpetrators included students at the local high school, two of whom were members of the basketball team and one the son of a school-board member, and persons with criminal records, from selling drugs to robbery and, in one case, manslaughter. They ranged from middle schoolers to one 27-year-old, at the time of the crime.\nOn the Monday after Thanksgiving day, on 29 November 2010, a cell phone video clip with images of the sexual encounter between a group of males and a young female circulated in the cafeteria of Cleveland's high school. Some viewers recognized the girl as a 6th grader from the middle school next door. A friend of the girl told a teacher what he had seen in the cell-phone video, as a school-district spokeswoman subsequently stated, and the police were alerted.\nPolice investigators identified and contacted the girl, whereupon she stated that, over the 2010 Thanksgiving holiday break, she was raped by a group of young men first at a house and then in a mobile home. According to a search warrant affidavit obtained by the media, police determined the video clip was recorded inside an abandoned mobile home on the city's northern outskirts, next to a Baptist church. According to the subsequent, criminal indictments, the girl was assaulted on four separate occasions: the first in September, followed by three more throughout the fall of 2010. In January 2011, she was removed by social workers from her parents' home and taken to foster care.\n\nThe investigation stirred racial tensions on account of the defendants all being African-Americans and the girl Hispanic, in both the town and nationwide. The event was publicized nationwide in the States and also abroad.\n\nOn Monday 4 April 2011, nineteen defendants appeared in the court of Liberty County district judge Mark Morefield for their arraignment hearing, with six of them pleading \"not guilty.\"\n\nThe \"New York Times\"' first report focused on the impact of the crime on the Cleveland community. The report came under criticism for its alleged \"sympathy\" for the accused, to the point where the newspaper sent another reporter back at the place and published a self-critical article.\n\nQuanell X, community leader and head of the New Black Panthers, was an \"outspoken critic\" of the victim. In a press conference in front of a Cleveland church, he asked rhetorically where the girl's parents were when this happened and why was \"that child experiencing so much sex with so many African-American men.\" He also disputed the rape claims since, as he put it, the girl never actually yelled the word \"rape\" during the assault and did not make an \"outcry\" until after footage of the assault surfaced. The media reported that the audience \"cheered and hollered in agreement.\"\n\nFlorida representative Kathleen Passidomo proposed that the state should step in and regulate the wardrobe of young girls. Pasidomo referred to \"an article about an 11 year old girl who was gang-raped in Texas by 18 young men because she was dressed like a 21-year-old prostitute.”\n\nIn Texas, sexual assault against a person under 17 years of age is a second degree felony, and aggravated sexual assault a first degree felony. Eventually, twenty-one persons were charged with crimes related to the gang rape. Only two adult males requested trials, and juries handed each defendant a 99-year prison sentence. Eleven other adult males pleaded guilty to the charges against them and received 15-year sentences in exchange. All seven juveniles entered guilty pleas and received seven-year probated prison-sentences. The twenty-first and last defendant pleaded guilty after a year long investigation whereby a DNA specimen identified him as being at the crime scene. The defendant received a reduced seven-year sentence in exchange for pleading guilty to indecently exposing himself to a child. All defendants sentenced to prison would be registered as sex offenders for ten years after completing the sentence.\n\nWhen the investigation started, the victim's family moved to another town after police detectives told the parents that they were in danger, while the girl who was reported as raped was placed by the Child Protective Services in the care of the Girls' Haven in Beaumont, Texas. In December 2011, she ran away from the residential facility and was \"on the streets for about a week,\" as the Jefferson County prosecutor stated. He revealed that, at some point, she met a 30-year-old male with a prior conviction as a drug dealer in Fort Bend County, who subsequently assaulted her at his apartment in Beaumont. The assailant was arrested and pleaded guilty in September 2012 to aggravated sexual assault of a child in exchange for deferred probation. In 2013, the girl revealed she was pregnant, allegedly from her \"15-year old boyfriend,\" and that they would keep the baby.\n"}
{"id": "29028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29028", "title": "32X", "text": "32X\n\nThe 32X is an add-on for the Sega Genesis video game console. Codenamed \"Project Mars\", the 32X was designed to expand the power of the Genesis and serve as a transitional console into the 32-bit era until the release of the Sega Saturn. Independent of the Genesis, the 32X uses its own ROM cartridges and has its own library of games. The add-on was distributed under the name in Japan, Genesis 32X in North America, Mega Drive 32X in the PAL region, and Mega 32X in Brazil.\n\nUnveiled by Sega at June 1994's Consumer Electronics Show, the 32X was presented as a low-cost option for consumers looking to play 32-bit games. Developed in response to the Atari Jaguar and concerns that the Saturn would not make it to market by the end of 1994, the product was conceived as an entirely new console. At the suggestion of Sega of America executive Joe Miller and his team, the console was converted into an add-on to the existing Genesis and made more powerful. The final design contained two 32-bit central processing units and a 3D graphics processor. To bring the new add-on to market by its scheduled release date of November 1994, development of the new system and its games was rushed. The console failed to attract third-party video game developers and consumers because of the announcement of the Sega Saturn's simultaneous release in Japan. Sega's efforts to rush the 32X to market cut into available time for game development, resulting in a weak library of forty titles that could not fully use the add-on's hardware, including Genesis ports. By the end of 1994, the 32X had sold 665,000 units. After price reductions in 1995, it was discontinued in 1996 as Sega turned its focus to the Saturn.\n\nThe 32X is considered a commercial failure. Reception after the add-on's unveiling and launch was positive, highlighting the low price of the system and power expansion to the Genesis. Later reviews, both contemporary and retrospective, for the 32X have been mostly negative because of its shallow game library, poor market timing and the resulting market fragmentation for the Genesis.\n\nThe Sega Genesis, initially released in Japan as the Mega Drive in 1988, was Sega's entry into the 16-bit era of video game consoles. The console was then released as the Genesis in 1989 for the North American market, with releases in other regions following a year later.\n\nAlthough the earlier release of the Sega CD add-on had been commercially disappointing, Sega began to develop a stop-gap solution that would bridge the gap between the Genesis and the Sega Saturn, serving as a less expensive entry into the 32-bit era. The decision to create a new system was made by Sega CEO Hayao Nakayama and broadly supported by Sega of America employees. According to former Sega of America producer Scot Bayless, Nakayama was worried that the Saturn would not be available until after 1994, and about the recent release of the 64-bit Atari Jaguar. As a result, the direction given was to have this second release to market by the end of the year.\n\nDuring the Winter Consumer Electronics Show in January 1994, Sega of America research and development head Joe Miller took a phone call in his Las Vegas hotel suite from Nakayama, in which Nakayama stressed the importance of coming up with a quick response to the Jaguar. Included on this call were Bayless, Sega hardware team head Hideki Sato, and Sega of America vice president of technology Marty Franz. One potential idea for this came from a concept from Sega of Japan, later known as \"Project Jupiter\", an entirely new independent console. Project Jupiter was initially slated to be a new version of the Genesis, with an upgraded color palette and a lower cost than the upcoming Saturn, as well as with some limited 3D capabilities thanks to integration of ideas from the development of the Sega Virtua Processor chip. Miller suggested an alternative strategy, citing concerns with releasing a new console with no previous design specifications within six to nine months. According to former Sega of America producer Michael Latham, Miller said, \"Oh, that's just a horrible idea. If all you're going to do is enhance the system, you should make it an add-on. If it's a new system with legitimate new software, great. But if the only thing it does is double the colors...\" Miller, however, insists that the decision was made collectively to talk about alternative solutions. One idea was to leverage the existing Genesis as a way to keep from alienating Sega customers, who would otherwise be required to discard their Genesis systems entirely to play 32-bit games, and to control the cost of the new system. This would come in the form of an add-on. From these discussions, Project Jupiter was discontinued and the new add-on, codenamed \"Project Mars\", was advanced.\n\nAt the suggestion from Miller and his team, Sega designed the 32X as a peripheral for the existing Genesis, expanding its power with two 32-bit SuperH-2 processors. The SH-2 had been developed in 1993 as a joint venture between Sega and Japanese electronics company Hitachi. The original design for the 32X add-on, according to Bayless, was created on a cocktail napkin, but Miller insists that this was not the case. At the end of the Consumer Electronics show, with the basic design of the 32X in place, Sega of Japan invited Sega of America to assist in development of the new add-on.\n\nAlthough the new unit was a stronger console than originally proposed, it was not compatible with Saturn games. This was justified by Sega's statement that both platforms would run at the same time, and that the 32X would be aimed at players who could not afford the more expensive Saturn. Bayless praised the potential of this system at this point, calling it \"a coder's dream for the day\" with its twin processors and 3D capabilities. Sega of America headed up the development of the 32X, with some assistance from Sato's team at Sega of Japan. Shortages of processors due to the same 32-bit chips being used in both the 32X and the Saturn hindered the development of the 32X, as did the language barrier between the teams in Japan and the United States.\n\nBefore the 32X could be launched, the release date of the Saturn was announced for November 1994 in Japan, coinciding with the 32X's target launch date in North America. Sega of America now was faced with trying to market the 32X with the Saturn's Japan release occurring simultaneously. Their answer was to call the 32X a \"transitional device\" between the Genesis and the Saturn, to which Bayless describes of the strategy, \"[f]rankly, it just made us look greedy and dumb to consumers.\"\n\nThe unveiling of the 32X to the public came at the Summer Consumer Electronics Show in June 1994 in Chicago. Promoted as the \"poor man's entry into 'next generation' games\", 32X was marketed for its US$159 price point as a less-expensive alternative to the Saturn. However, Sega would not answer whether or not a Genesis console equipped with a Sega CD and a 32X would be able to run Saturn software. Founder of The 3DO Company, Trip Hawkins, was willing to point out that it would not, stating, \"Everyone knows that 32X is a Band-Aid. It's not a 'next generation system.' It's fairly expensive. It's not particularly high-performance. It's hard to program for, and it's not compatible with the Saturn.\" In response to these comments, Sega executive Richard Brudvik-Lindner pointed out that the 32X would play Genesis titles, and had the same system architecture as the Saturn.\n\nIn August of that year, \"GamePro\" highlighted the advantages of the upcoming add-on in its 32-bit processors and significantly lower price, noting that \"[n]o doubt gotta-get-it-now gamers will spend the big bucks to grab Saturn or PlayStation systems and games from Japan. For the rest of us, however, 32X may well be the system of choice in '94.\" In promotion for the new system, Sega promised 12 games available at launch and 50 games due for release in 1995 from third-party developers.\n\nThe 32X was released on November 21, 1994, in North America, in time for the holiday season that year. As announced, it retailed for $159.99, and had a reasonably successful launch in the marketplace. Demand among retailers was high, and Sega could not keep up orders for the system. Over 1,000,000 orders had been placed for 32X units, but Sega had only managed to ship 600,000 units by January 1995. Launching at about the same price as a Genesis console, the price of the 32X was less than half of what the Saturn's price would be at launch. Despite Sega's initial promises, only six titles were available at its North American launch, including \"Doom\", \"Star Wars Arcade\", \"Virtua Racing Deluxe\", and \"Cosmic Carnage\". Although \"Virtua Racing\" was considered a \"strong\" title, \"Cosmic Carnage\" \"looked and played so poorly that reporters made jokes about it.\" Games were available at a retail price of $69.95. Advertising for the system included images of the 32X being connected to a Genesis console to create an \"arcade system\". Japan received the 32X on December 3, 1994, at a cost of JP¥16,800. The system's PAL release came in January 1995, at a price of GB£169.99, and also experienced initial high demand.\n\nDespite the lower price console's positioning as an inexpensive entry into 32-bit gaming, Sega had a difficult time convincing third-party developers to create games for the new system. Top developers were already aware of the coming arrival of the Sega Saturn, Nintendo 64, and PlayStation, and did not believe the 32X would be capable of competing with any of those systems. The quick development time of the 32X also made game development difficult, according to Franz. Not wanting to create games for an add-on that was \"a technological dead-end\", many developers decided not to make games for the system. Issues also plagued titles developed in-house due to the time crunch to release the 32X. According to Bayless, \"games in the queue were effectively jammed into a box as fast as possible, which meant massive cutting of corners in every conceivable way. Even from the outset, designs of those games were deliberately conservative because of the time crunch. By the time they shipped they were even more conservative; they did nothing to show off what the hardware was capable of.\"\n\nJournalists were similarly concerned about Sega's tactic of selling two similar consoles at different prices and attempting to support both, likening Sega's approach to that of General Motors and segmenting the market for its consoles. In order to convince the press that the 32X was a worthwhile console, Sega flew in journalists from all around the country to San Francisco for a party at a local nightclub. The event featured a speech from Tom Kalinske, live music with a local rapper praising the 32X, and 32X games on exhibition. However, the event turned out to be a bust, as journalists attempted to leave the party due to its loud music and unimpressive games on display, only to find that the buses that brought them to the nightclub had just left and would not return until the scheduled end of the party.\n\nThough the system had a successful launch, demand soon disappeared. Over the first three months of 1995, several of the 32X's third party publishers, including Capcom and Konami, cancelled their 32X projects so that they could focus on producing games for the Saturn and PlayStation. The 32X failed to catch on with the public, and is considered a commercial failure. By 1995, the Genesis had still not proven successful in Japan, where it was known as Mega Drive, and the Saturn was beating the PlayStation, so Sega CEO Hayao Nakayama decided to force Sega of America to focus on the Saturn and cut support for Genesis products, executing a surprise early launch of the Saturn in the early summer of 1995. Sega was supporting five different consoles before this—Saturn, Genesis, Game Gear, Pico, and the Master System—as well as the Sega CD and Sega 32X add-ons. Sales estimates for the 32X stood at 665,000 units at the end of 1994. Despite assurances from Sega that many games would be developed for the system, in early 1996, Sega finally conceded that it had promised too much out of the add-on and decided to discontinue the 32X in order to focus on the Saturn. In September 1995, the retail price for the 32X dropped to $99, and later the remaining inventory was cleared out of stores at $19.95.\n\nThe Sega Neptune was a two-in-one Genesis and 32X console which Sega planned to release in fall 1995, with the retail price planned to be something less than US$200. Sega cancelled the Neptune in October 1995, citing fears that it would dilute their marketing for the Saturn while being priced too close to the Saturn to be a viable competitor. \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\" used the Sega Neptune as an April Fools' Day prank in its April 2001 issue. The issue included a small article in which the writers announced that Sega had found a warehouse full of old Sega Neptunes, and were selling them on a website for only $50.\n\nThe 32X can be used only in conjunction with a Genesis system. It is inserted into the system like a standard game cartridge. The add-on requires its own separate power supply, a connection cable linking it to the Genesis, and an additional conversion cable for the original model of the Genesis. As well as playing its own library of cartridges, the 32X is backwards-compatible with Genesis games, and can also be used in conjunction with the Sega CD to play games that use both add-ons. The 32X also came with a spacer so it would fit properly with the second model of the Genesis; an optional spacer was offered for use with the Sega Genesis CDX system, but ultimately never shipped due to risks of electric shock when the 32X and CDX were connected. Installation of the 32X also requires the insertion of two included electromagnetic shield plates into the Genesis' cartridge slot.\n\nSeated on top of a Genesis, the 32X measures . The 32X contains two Hitachi SH2 32-bit RISC processors with a clock speed of 23 MHz, which Sega claimed would allow the system to work 40 times faster than a stand-alone Genesis. Its graphics processing unit is capable of producing 32,768 colors and rendering 50,000 polygons per second, which provides a noticeable improvement over the polygon rendering of the Genesis. The 32X also includes 256 kilobytes of random-access memory (RAM), along with 256 kilobytes of video RAM. Sound is supplied through a pulse-width modulation sound source. Input/output is supplied to a television set via a provided A/V cable that supplies composite video and stereo audio, or through an RF modulator. Stereo audio can also be played through headphones via a headphone jack on the attached Genesis.\n\nThe 32X's game library consists of forty titles, including six that required both the Sega 32X and Sega CD. Among the titles for the 32X were ports of arcade games \"Space Harrier\" and \"Star Wars Arcade\", a sidescroller with a hummingbird as a main character in \"Kolibri\", and a 32X-exclusive game in the \"Sonic the Hedgehog\" series titled \"Knuckles' Chaotix\". Several of the games released for the 32X are enhanced ports of Genesis games, including \"After Burner\", \"NFL Quarterback Club\", and \"World Series Baseball '95\". In a retrospective review of the console, \"Star Wars Arcade\" was considered the best game for the 32X by IGN for its cooperative play, soundtrack, and faithful reproduction of the experiences of \"Star Wars\". In a separate review, IGN's Buchanan praised the 32X title \"Shadow Squadron\" as superior to \"Star Wars Arcade\". \"Retro Gamer\" writer Damien McFerran, however, praised \"Virtua Fighter\" as \"the jewel in the 32X's crown\", and GamesRadar+ named \"Knuckles' Chaotix\" as the best game for the system. \"Next Generation\" called \"Virtua Fighter\" \"the colorful wreath on 32X's coffin\", reflecting the consensus among contemporary critics that the game was at once arguably the 32X's best release and a clear harbinger of the platform's imminent discontinuation, since it was clearly inferior to the Saturn versions of \"Virtua Fighter Remix\" (which had already been released) and \"Virtua Fighter 2\" (which was due out in just a few months). In response to fan inquiries, Sega stated that the 32X architecture was not powerful enough to handle a port of \"Virtua Fighter 2\".\n\nAlthough the console used 32-bit processing and was capable of better graphics and sound than the Genesis alone, most games for the 32X did not take advantage of its hardware. \"Doom\" for the 32X received near perfect reviews from gaming magazines upon launch, but was later noted for being an inferior version of the game compared to releases for the PC and the Atari Jaguar, with the 32X version criticized for missing levels, poor graphic and audio quality, jerky movement, and running within a window on the screen. Though the system had enhanced audio capabilities, 32X games did not use this, which Franz believes was due to developers being unwilling to invest in designing games to work with the new audio enhancements. One source of these issues was the rush to release games on time for the 32X's launch; former Sega of America executive producer Michael Latham explained, in reference to 32X launch title \"Cosmic Carnage\", \"We were rushed. We had to get games out for the 32X and it was going to be such a close cycle. When \"Cosmic Carnage\" showed up, we didn't even want to ship it. It took a lot of convincing, you know, to ship that title.\" Likewise with \"Doom\", id Software's John Carmack rushed to have the port ready for release at the 32X's launch and had to trim out a third of the game's levels in order to meet the deadline for the port to be published on time. Because of time limitations, game designs were intentionally conservative and did not show what the 32X hardware was able to do. In an interview at the end of 1995, Sega vice president of marketing Mike Ribero, while insisting that Sega was not abandoning the 32X, acknowledged that first party software support for the system had been lackluster: \"I won't lie to you, we screwed up with 32X. We overpromised and underdelivered.\"\n\nInitial reception to the 32X and its games upon the launch of the add-on was very positive. Four reviewers from \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\" scored the add-on 8, 7, 8, and 8 out of 10 in their 1995 Buyer's Guide, highlighting the add-on's enhancements to the Genesis but questioning how long the system would be supported. \"GamePro\" commented that the 32X's multiple input and power cords make it \"as complicated as setting up your VCR\" and noted some performance glitches with the prototype such as freezes and overheating, but expressed confidence that the production models would perform well and gave the add-on their overall approval. Reviews of its launch titles, such as \"Doom\", were likewise positive. By late 1995, feedback to the add-on had soured. In its 1996 Buyer's Guide, \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\"'s four reviewers scored the add-on 3, 3, 3, and 2 out of 10, criticizing the game library and Sega's abandonment of the system in favor of the Saturn. A review in \"Next Generation\" panned the 32X for its weak polygon processing, the tendency of developers to show off its capabilities with garishly colored games, and its apparent function as \"simply a way of grabbing extra 1994 mind and market share while waiting for Saturn\". The review gave it one out of five stars.\n\nRetrospectively, the 32X is widely criticized as having been under-supported and a poor idea in the wake of the release of the Sega Saturn. 1UP.com's Jeremy Parish stated that the 32X \"tainted just about everything it touched.\" GamesRadar+ also panned the system, placing it as their ninth-worst console with reviewer Mikel Reparaz criticizing that \"it was a stopgap system that would be thrown under the bus when the Sega Saturn came out six months later, and everyone seemed to know it except for die-hard Sega fans and the company itself.\" \"<nowiki>Retro Gamer'</nowiki>\"s Damien McFerran offered some praise for the power increase of the 32X to offer ports of \"Space Harrier\", \"After Burner\", and \"Virtua Fighter\" that were accurate to the original arcade versions, as well as the add-on's price point, stating, \"If you didn't have deep enough pockets to afford a Saturn, then the 32X was a viable option; it's just a shame that it sold so poorly because the potential was there for true greatness.\" Levi Buchanan, writing for IGN, saw some sense in the move for Sega to create the 32X but criticized its implementation. According to Buchanan, \"I actually thought the 32X was a better idea than the SEGA CD... The 32X, while underpowered, at least advanced the ball. Maybe it only gained a few inches in no small part due to a weak library, but at least the idea was the right one.\"\n\nIn particular, the console's status as an add-on and poor timing after the announcement of the Saturn has been identified by reviewers as being responsible factors for fracturing the audience for Sega's video game consoles in terms of both developers and consumers. Allgame notes that \"[e]very add-on whittled away at the number of potential buyers and discouraged third-party companies from making the games necessary to boost sales.\" \"GamePro\" criticized the concept of the add-on, noting the expenses involved in purchasing the system. According to reviewer Blake Snow, \"Just how many 16-bit attachments did one need? All in all, if you were one of the unlucky souls who completely bought into Sega's add-on frenzy, you would have spent a whopping $650 for something that weighed about as much as a small dog.\" Writing for GamesRadar+, Reparaz noted that \"developers—not wanting to waste time on a technological dead-end—abandoned the 32X in droves. Gamers quickly followed suit, turning what was once a promising idea into an embarrassing footnote in console history, as well as an object lesson in why console makers shouldn't split their user base with pricey add-ons.\" Reparaz went on to criticize Sega's decision to release the 32X, noting that \"(u)ltimately, the 32X was the product of boneheaded short-sightedness: its existence put Sega into competition with itself once the Saturn rolled out.\" Writing for IGN, Buchanan also notes that \"Notice that we haven't seen many add-ons like the 32X since 1994? I think the 32X killed the idea of an add-on like this—a power booster—permanently. And that's a good thing. Because add-ons, if not implemented properly, just splinter an audience.\"\n\nFormer executives at Sega have mixed opinions of the 32X. Bayless believes firmly that the 32X serves as a warning to the video game industry not to risk splintering the market for consoles by creating add-ons, and was critical of the Kinect and PlayStation Move for doing so. Franz places the 32X's commercial failure on its inability to function without an attached Genesis and lack of a CD drive, despite its compatibility with the Sega CD, stating, \"The 32X was destined to die because it didn't have a CD drive and was an add-on. An add-on device is never as well thought out as a built-from-scratch device.\" Miller, on the other hand, remembers the 32X positively, stating, \"I think the 32X actually was an interesting, viable platform. The timing was wrong, and certainly our ability to stick with it, given what we did with Saturn, was severely limited. There were a whole bunch of reasons why we couldn’t ultimately do what we had to do with that platform, without third party support and with the timing of Saturn, but I still think the project was a success for a bunch of other reasons. In hindsight, it was not a great idea for a whole bunch of other reasons.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3577026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3577026", "title": "Behavioral engineering", "text": "Behavioral engineering\n\nBehavioral engineering is intended to identify issues associated with the interface of technology and the human operators in a system and to generate recommended design practices that consider the strengths and limitations of the human operators.\nWatson wrote in 1924 \"Behaviorism ... holds that the subject matter of human psychology is the behavior of the human being. Behaviorism claims that consciousness is neither a definite nor a usable concept.\" \n\nThis approach is often used in organizational behavior management, which is behavior analysis applied to organizations and behavioral community psychology.\n\nBehavioral engineering has been used to increase safety in organizations (see Behavior-based safety). Other areas include performance in organization and lessening problems in prison. In addition, it has had some success in social service systems, understanding the long-term effects of humans in space and developing the human landscape, understanding political behavior in organizations, and understanding how organizations function.\n\nIt has also been successful in helping individuals to set goals and manage pay systems. Behavioral engineering has also been applied to social welfare policy.\n\nIn the school system behavioral engineering has inspired two programs of behavior management based on the principles of applied behavior analysis in a social learning format. Programs were successful in reducing disruption in children with conduct disorders, as well as improving their academic achievement. The programs show good maintenance and generalization of treatment effects when the child was returned to the natural classroom. In addition, the programs were successfully replicated. Behavior analytic programs continued to function to control truancy and reduce delinquency.\n\nThe journal \"Behavioral Engineering\" was published from 1973–1985. Many of the topics of behavioral engineering are now covered in the journals \"Behavior and Social Issues,\" \"The Behavior Analyst\" and the \"Journal of Organizational Behavior Management.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "26899978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26899978", "title": "Brander–Spencer model", "text": "Brander–Spencer model\n\nThe Brander–Spencer model is an economic model in international trade originally developed by James Brander and Barbara Spencer in the early 1980s. The model illustrates a situation where, under certain assumptions, a government can subsidize domestic firms to help them in their competition against foreign producers and in doing so enhances national welfare. This conclusion stands in contrast to results from most international trade models, in which government non-interference is socially optimal.\n\nThe basic model is a variation on the Stackelberg–Cournot \"leader and follower\" duopoly game. Alternatively, the model can be portrayed in game theoretic terms as initially a game with multiple Nash equilibria, with government having the capability of affecting the payoffs to switch to a game with just one equilibrium. Although it is possible for the national government to increase a country's welfare in the model through export subsidies, the policy is of beggar thy neighbor type. This also means that if all governments simultaneously attempt to follow the policy prescription of the model, all countries would wind up worse off.\n\nThe model was part of the \"New Trade Theory\" that was developed in the late 1970s and early 1980s, which incorporated then recent developments from literature on industrial organization into theories of international trade. In particular, like in many other New Trade Theory models, economies of scale (in this case, in the form of fixed entry costs) play an important role in the Brander–Spencer model.\n\nA simplified version of the model was popularized by Paul Krugman in the 1990s in his book \"Peddling Prosperity\". In this set up there are two firms, one foreign and one domestic which are considering entering a new export market in a third country (or possibly the whole world). The demand in the export market is such that if only one firm enters, it will make a profit, but if they both enter each will make a loss, perhaps because of initial set up, infrastructure, product development, marketing or other fixed costs of entry. The matrix below presents a stylized example of the game that the two firms are engaged in.\n\nThe available choices of the domestic firms are given on the left, while those of the foreign firm are on top. The first number in each cell denotes the payoff to the domestic firm while the second number is the payoff to the foreign firm.\n\nThe game with no government subsidy to the domestic firm is shown in Figure 1 on the left. If both firms enter, they each suffer a loss of 10 million dollars and if they both stay out of the market neither firm makes a profit or a loss. If only one firm enters however, that firm will realize a profit of 50 million dollars while the other firm will make nothing. The two Nash equilibria of this game (marked in purple) are the situations in which only one firm enters – but which firm, domestic or foreign, is indeterminate. In such a situation if the foreign firm has a slight initial advantage over the domestic firm (perhaps because it began product development earlier) the domestic firm will stay out and the foreign firm will enter.\n\nThe game changes however if the government credibly promises to subsidize the domestic firm if it enters the market, as illustrated in Figure 2. Suppose the government promises a subsidy of twenty million, regardless of whether the foreign firm also enters or not. In that case, if the foreign firm enters the domestic firm will lose ten million from entry costs but will be more than compensated by the government subsidy, ending up with a net payoff of ten million. If the foreign firm does not enter of course, it is still profitable for the domestic firm to enter. As a result, regardless of the action of the foreign firm, the domestic firm's incentive is to enter the market. Anticipating this, the foreign firm will stay out of the market itself, since otherwise it would incur a loss.\n\nFrom the point of view of the domestic country, the subsidy is welfare improving. The 20 million subsidy is a transfer from the government to the firm hence it has no effect on national welfare (ignoring costs of taxation; as long as these are not too large the basic insight of the model goes through). Additionally the domestic firm gains 50 million which would have otherwise gone to the foreign firm.\n\nThe original Brander and Spencer paper presented the game in the framework of a Cournot competition model.\n\nLetting x denote the output of the domestic firm and y denote the output of the foreign firm, the inverse demand function (price as a function of total quantity) is given by formula_1. Hence the profit function for the domestic firm is formula_2 where formula_3 is total revenue, formula_4 is total cost of producing x units, and s is per unit subsidy provided by the government. The profit function for the foreign firm is similar except that it does not include a subsidy, formula_5.\n\nEach firm chooses the quantity to supply in order to maximize profits, taking the other's choice as given. The (first order) conditions for profit maximization are formula_6 for the domestic firm and formula_7 for the foreign firm, where subscripted variables denote partial derivatives. Solving these for y implicitly defines a best response function for each firm; formula_8 and formula_9. These are illustrated in the figure below, with the domestic firm's output on the x axis and foreign firm's output on the y axis.\n\nWith no government subsidy (s=0) the resulting equilibrium will be the standard Cournot outcome, as shown in the graph by the intersection of the best response functions. A subsidy however has the effect of shifting the domestic firm's best response function to the right. Because its output is subsidized, the domestic firm increases production. This in turn means that the foreign firm's best response is to cut output, although not proportionally (hence, the market price falls). In the new equilibrium domestic firm produces more and foreign firm produces less.\n\nIn the model, domestic social welfare can be defined as the home firm's profit net of the subsidy (the model can be extended so that social welfare includes the firm's monopoly profit as well as the wages paid to the firm's workers; the results are qualitatively the same). It can be shown that the profit function evaluated at equilibrium quantity levels is concave in s and eventually negatively sloped. As a result, there is an \"optimal subsidy\" which maximizes the domestic firm's profits and hence domestic social welfare. As it turns out, if the government sets the subsidy exactly at the optimal level, the resulting equilibrium is the same as that of the \"leader and follower\" Stackelberg model. In that case one of the firms (in this case the domestic firm) has the ability to choose its output first. This creates the ability to credibly commit to a particular action, resulting in \"first mover advantage\". In the Brender–Spencer model, the government's subsidy creates this credible commitment even when the private firm does not have that ability.\n\nIn standard models of international trade a fall in the price of a country's export good – a deterioration in its terms of trade – generally decreases the home country's welfare. In the Brander–Spencer model however the opposite is true. This is because in this model the markets are not perfectly competitive and the revenue from the expanded quantity sold compensates the firm for the revenue lost from the lower export price. If the good produced by the firm is also consumed domestically however the result is a bit more complicated. In the case where the firm is able to separate the home and export market (charge different prices in each with no possibility of third party arbitrage) then the level of the optimal subsidies will depend on whether marginal costs of production are constant, increasing or decreasing. The optimal subsidy level is either the same, higher or lower, respectively, compared to the level with no domestic consumption. This underscores the need on the part of the government for very precise information on industry structure and firm's cost functions.\n\nIn the more general case where the firm cannot price discriminate between domestic and foreign consumers the effects of a subsidy are less clear since both an expansion of exports and deterioration of terms of trade are present. However, Brender and Spencer show that starting out from the position of no subsidy, introducing a small subsidy can improve a country's welfare.\n\nThe basic model can be extended to incorporate a supra-game played by the governments of the respective countries. In this case, each government chooses the level of subsidy it will provide to its firm, taking the other government's action as given, and anticipating the reaction of the firms (in terms of quantity produced) to the subsidy. Brander and Spencer show that in the resulting Nash equilibrium the governments choose a level of subsidy that is too high and hence they do not manage to maximize social welfare. In fact, if the good produced is not consumed domestically, then the optimal level of subsidy is negative – an export tax. This is because the total quantity produced in the Cournot and the Stackelberg equilibrium is higher than the profit maximizing collusive monopoly level of output. Since both the home and foreign firm are producing for a third market, an export tax could reduce the total quantity produced down to the monopoly level, thus increasing both firms' profits. In that way the governments can effect a collusive outcome between their firms, at the expanse of the third country which imports the good.\n\nAs pointed out by Paul Krugman, the Brander–Spencer model, due to the sensitivity of the results to its assumptions, does not establish a generally applicable policy prescription in favor of government subsidies. Rather, it provides an example for when such intervention may be justifiable and points to some conditions which may favor it.\n\nA general difficulty with the application of the model, like many game theoretic models, is that it does not easily lend itself to econometric testing and parameter estimation. As a result, the two avenues of empirical research that have been pursued in subsequent literature have been estimates of a \"conjectural variation\" parameter for particular industries, and calibration of the models using behavioral parameters from other studies. The former approach assumes that firms have a \"conjecture\" as to how the other firms will react to their own choice of output and base their decision on this belief. However, the approach is problematic, both from an analytical (it is not internally consistent) and an empirical point of view (there's no guarantee that the parameter, even if it makes conceptual sense, remains stable when a new policy – the government's subsidy – is introduced). Calibrations of models of industry structure on the other hand have generally found that most industry are neither Cournot (in which case the Brander–Spencer policy prescription would be an export subsidy) nor Bertrand (in which case the optimal policy is an export tax). As a result, it is hard to say in which industries exactly the Brander–Spencer policy prescription may apply.\n\nMarie Thursby has used an extended version of the model to examine international trade in wheat, 60% of which is produced by the United States and Canada. Thursby includes marketing boards, possibility of a monopsony, and a variety of government policies in the analysis. She finds that while there are significant economies of scale in the industry, the barriers to entry are not high and regardless of the extent of market power that US firms have in the industry, the optimal policy is actually an export tax, rather than a subsidy.\n\nIn his book which presented the model to the general public, Paul Krugman used the example of the aircraft industry, with the two players being Airbus and Boeing. In fact, Krugman and Baldwin examined the industry for wide bodied aircraft in the context of the model in a 1988 paper. The authors calibrate an extended version of the model in order to examine the effect of a subsidy to Airbus by European governments, and its presence in a market which can only support two firms at most, worldwide. They find that the subsidy had an unambiguously negative effect on welfare of the United States and a positive effect on rest of the world, which benefits from lower prices. The result for Europe hinges on price elasticity of demand; for relatively inelastic demand the net effect of subsidy is positive with most of the benefits accruing to European consumers, but for elastic demand, social welfare in Europe goes down. Importantly, unlike in the baseline Brander and Spencer model, Krugman and Baldwin find that the changes to consumer surplus resulting from the subsidy and entry, dominate the effect of changes in firm profits in social welfare calculations.\n\nGernot Klepper, in an analysis similar to Krugman and Baldwin, has also used the Brander Spencer and other models to analyze the effects of entry into the transport aircraft industry. He included the effects of learning during the production process which depends on the scale of production. His calibrated model suggested that per unit production costs can fall by as much as 20% if total production is doubled. In that case, the entry of another firm (in this case, Airbus) into the market would decrease per firm output and reduce the learning and scale effects. In his analysis, the entry of Airbus would cause an increase in consumer surplus, but this would be smaller than the resulting loss in producer surplus.\n\nIn general, like with many of the New Trade Theory models, the results of the Brander Spencer model and the policy prescriptions it generates are very sensitive to the underlying assumptions on the nature of the industry in question, the information available to the national government, its ability to credibly commit to an action and the likely response of foreign governments. Some of these criticisms were already noted by Brander and Spencer in their paper, where they advised caution.\n\nFurther work on the model has shown that a slight difference in assumptions can produce completely different results. For example, Eaton and Grossmann showed that if the firms compete in prices rather in quantities (Bertrand competition rather than Cournot) then the optimal policy is an export tax rather a subsidy – a policy rarely used in practice, politically unpopular and contrary to protectionist sentiment which generally touted New Trade Theory models as an argument for their favored policies.\n\nThe 1985 paper \"Export Subsidies and International Market Share Rivalry\", which presented the original version of the model, was the most cited paper in the \"Journal of International Economics\" since the inception of the journal in 1971 (as of 2000).\n\n"}
{"id": "1312492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1312492", "title": "Béla H. Bánáthy", "text": "Béla H. Bánáthy\n\nBéla Heinrich Bánáthy (; December 1, 1919 – September 4, 2003) was an Hungarian-American linguist, and Professor at San Jose State University and UC Berkeley. He is known as founder of the White Stag Leadership Development Program, established the International Systems Institute in 1982, and was co-founder of the General Evolutionary Research Group in 1984.\n\nHe grew up in largely rural Hungary and served in the Hungarian military during World War II. When Russia invaded Hungary in April 1945, he and his family fled to Allied-occupied Austria and lived in a displaced persons camp for six years. In 1951, they emigrated to Chicago, sponsored by the Presbyterian church. Within the year his former commanding officer suggested to the U.S. government that they hire Bánáthy as a Hungarian instructor at the Army Language School in Monterey, California. While living in Monterey, he founded the White Stag Leadership Development Program. \n\nHis program gained national attention, and the Boy Scouts of America conducted research into incorporating leadership training into its programs. The Boy Scouts of America's Wood Badge and junior leader training programs had until then focused primarily on Scoutcraft skills, not leadership. William \"Green Bar Bill\" Hillcourt among others resisted the change.\n\nAfter 20 years, Bánáthy left the renamed Defense Language Institute and went to work for the Far West Laboratory for Research and Development in Berkeley and later San Francisco. He retired from Far West in 1989 but maintained an active interest in social systems and science, including attending many conferences and advising students and others in those fields. In 1992, he helped restart the Hungarian Scout Association within his native country. In 2003, Bánáthy and Eva moved to live with their son Tibor in Chico, California. After a brief and unexpected illness, Bánáthy died on September 4, 2003.\n\nBéla Bánáthy was born in 1919 in Gyula, Hungary, as the oldest of four sons. His father Peter was a minister of the Reformed Church in Hungary and his mother Hildegard Pallmann was a teacher. Peter Bánáthy had earned the honorary title Vitéz for his service during World War I, and Béla, as his oldest son, inherited the title.\n\nWhen Bánáthy was about six years old, their family informally adopted Tamas Feri. Tamas was about 13 years old and from a poor gardener's family. Tamas took Bánáthy on his first overnight camp out with his patrol to a small forest near Gyula. Bánáthy's father became the Scoutmaster of the \"small scouts\" troop (similar to American Cub Scouts). When Bánáthy was nine years old, he became the troop leader.\n\nThe family moved about from Bánáthy's birthplace of Gyula, to Makó, Hungary, about southeast of Budapest. He joined the regular scout program of the Hungarian Scout Association and \"Csanad Vezer\" Troop 92. During the 1930s, the troop had more than 50 Scouts and 30 \"small scouts\". They held their monthly troop meetings on Sunday in a large gimnazium and met weekly every Saturday as a patrol. Bánáthy reported: \"Our weekly patrol meetings focused on scoutcraft and Scout spirit and guiding us to move through the various stages of advancement in rank.\"\n\nThe Hungarian Scout program had four stages. During the first three years, Bánáthy advanced three stages. The last stage required Bánáthy to earn 25 merit badges. This last stage was called Turul, after the mythical bird of Hungary. From spring to fall, as weather permitted, the patrol had many outings. Every summer the troop went on a two- to three-week long summer camp. Bánáthy and his troop attended the 4th World Scout Jamboree in 1933. Up until this time, he had intended to follow his father into the ministry, but changed his mind.\n\nBánáthy later wrote,\nWhile at the Jamboree, Bánáthy briefly met Joseph Szentkiralyi, another Scout from Hungary. Hungarian Sea Scout Paul Ferenc Sujan and American Maurice Tripp also attended. More than 20 years later, these three men collaborated in helping Bánáthy build a leadership program for youth in the United States.\n\nAlso in 1933, Bánáthy attended the regional patrol leader training week. Later in 1934, Bánáthy and six other members of his troop traveled to the National Jamboree in Poland. They camped in a large pine forest and visited Kraków and Warsaw. The Polish government hosted a banquet for all of the Scouts in the Presidential Palace. In 1934, he was awarded the best notebook prize of the national spring leadership camp and in 1935, he was invited to serve on the junior staff of the same camp at Hárshegy, Budapest. In 1935, the troop traveled to the Bükk Mountains in northeastern Hungary for their summer camp. As a Senior Patrol leader, Bánáthy and two others took a bicycle tour in advance of the summer camp to preview the camping site.\n\nIn 1937, Bánáthy entered the as was the custom for young men aspiring to military careers. In 1940, at age 21, he was commissioned as a Second Lieutenant in the armored infantry. Later that year he met his future wife Eva Balazs. The peace-time Hungarian Army received very little training. Bánáthy served two tours on the Russian front in World War II as an armored infantry officer. The Hungarian Army expanded rapidly from an initial force of 80,000, but when fighting started, the rank-and-file of the army had undergone only eight weeks of training.\n\nIn 1941, Bánáthy's unit advanced as part of German Army Group South to within of Moscow, during a severe November ice storm. In 1942, as a soldier in the 109,000 strong Second Hungarian Army (Second Magyar Honved), Bánáthy returned to the Russian front. They fought in the Battle of Voronezh at the Don River bend, supporting the German attack. They were charged with protecting the 8th Italian Army's's northern flank between the Novaya Pokrovka on the Don River to Rossosh, part of the larger force defending the drive by the German 6th Army against Soviet General Vasily Chuikov's 62nd Army, which was defending Stalingrad. Bánáthy was seriously wounded during the action, and he returned from the front to Budapest where he spent seven months recuperating. He married his fiancé, Eva Balazs, with his arm in a sling on December 5, 1942 in Budapest. \n\nBánáthy was promoted as a junior officer of the Royal Hungarian Army and served on the faculty of the Ludovika Akademia under his mentor, Commandant Colonel-General Kisbarnaki General Farkas. Farkas sought a volunteer to teach junior leader training at the academy and Bánáthy volunteered. Farkas also asked Bánáthy to organize a Scout Troop for young men, 19 years and older, which was a common practice within the Hungarian Scout Association at the time. Bánáthy became committed to training the young men in officer's leadership skills; he served as the voluntary national director for youth leadership development and a member of the National Council of the Hungarian Scout Association.\n\nIn July 1944 Farkas was Commander of the Hungarian VI Army Corps, which had been garrisoned at Debrecen. He replaced General Beregfy, who was loyal to the fascist Arrow Cross Party. During that month, Farkas' VI Army Corp was instrumental in repelling a Red Army attack across the Carpathian mountains. On 15 October 1944, Farkas was named commander of the Pest bridgehead and Government Commissioner for Evacuation. In early November 1944, the first Russian units appeared on the southeastern edge of Budapest. As an associate of Farkas, Bánáthy likely had advance notice of the Russian advance. He also knew he would likely be executed if captured. Bánáthy was able to get his wife Eva, one-year-old son Béla and two-week-old son László out of Budapest. Bánáthy's family, along with other officers and their families, found shelter at first in farmhouses, and later in bunkers, caves, and trenches.\n\nWhen the Hungarian Second Army was disbanded on 1 December 1944 due to a lack of equipment and personnel, the remaining units of the Second Army, including Bánáthy's, were transferred to the Third Army. The Siege of Budapest began when the city was encircled on 29 December 1944 by the Red Army. Bánáthy fought with the remainder of his unit against the Russians until after Budapest fell on 13 February 1945. The Axis was striving to protect the last oil fields they controlled in western Hungary around Lake Balaton. By late March 1945, most of what was left of the Hungarian Third Army was surrounded and destroyed about to the west of Budapest in an advance by the Soviet 46th Army towards Vienna. The remaining shattered units fought on as they retreated progressively westward through the Transdanubian Mountains towards Austria.\n\nBánáthy's family and others of the remainder of his and other military units made their way west, along with tens of thousands of other refugees, about into Austria, trying to stay ahead of advancing Russian troops. Temperatures through the time of their flight remained near .\n\nBánáthy reunited with his family in Austria. As the war ended and Austria was occupied in April 1945 by the French, British, Soviet and US military forces, the family was placed in an Allied displaced persons camp. They were housed in a single room in a wooden barrack; it served as their bedroom, kitchen, living room and firewood storage area. Food was extremely scarce and at times they subsisted on around 600 calories per person per day. They were among 1.4 million displaced persons in Austria at the time during a worldwide food shortage as a result of the war. Food was also severely restricted by punitive U.S. policies including directive JCS 1067. In 1947 German citizens were surviving on 1040 calories a day, but the Allies were also suffering from food shortages.\n\nBánáthy later traded for milk to give two-year-old Béla and one-year-old László enough protein. As extremely little food was available in the camps, in early 1947 his wife's twin sister came from Hungary to take their older two sons back to live with the older sister. The Pallendal family, Bánáthy's in-laws, was well-educated and relatively wealthy, so they had access to more food than what was available in the camps. They intended to return the Banathy boys to their parents within a year. Beginning in early 1948, when the Cold War ensued, it became virtually impossible for refugees or displaced persons to cross from the border of one country into another, or even from one Occupation Zone to another. The Pallendal family could not return the two boys from behind the Iron Curtain.\n\nIn 1948, shortly after their third son Tibor was born, the Banathy family was moved to another camp, near a Marshall Plan warehouse. Bánáthy was assigned to unload sacks of wheat from railroad cars. He contacted the World Scouting Movement for assistance and began to organize scouting in the DP camps. During 1947, Bánáthy was named the Hungarian Scout Commissioner for Austria; he led training for Hungarian Scout leaders along with his former commanding officer Farkas. He was ordained by the World Council of Churches and became minister for youth among Hungarian refugees. Banathy served as director of religious education of the Protestant Refugee Service of Austria, was editor of a religious youth service and of a Scout publication.\n\nIn 1948 Bánáthy's fourth son Robert was born. Bánáthy soon found work as a technical draftsman in the statistical office of a U.S. Army warehouse. In 1949, with help from a Swiss foundation, Bánáthy assisted in establishing and was selected as the President of the Collegium Hungaricum, a boarding school for refugees, at Zell am See near Saalfelden, Austria. In the same year, the Communist government in Hungary seized the businesses belonging to the Pallendal family. Because they were members of the social elite, the Communist government considered them to be a political threat.\n\nIn 1951, in what was a common practice during this time, the Hungarian Police arrived at dawn to seize the Pallendal family home and arrest and deport the family from Budapest. Seven-year-old Béla and six-year-old László Banathy, along with their Pallendal grandmother and two aunts, were put aboard a freight train and sent toward Russia. The train stopped occasionally and a few hundred people were forced off at rural towns. The Pallendal family was ejected in eastern Hungary. There an uncle located them and hid them from authorities in a small village.\n\nIn January, 1951, the student body of the Presbyterian McCormick Theological Seminary in Chicago sponsored Béla, Eva, Tibor and Robert Banathy as refugees to the United States. Bánáthy lived with his family at the Seminary, where he worked nights 60 hours a week shoveling coal to fire the Seminary furnace. At the same time, he was studying English from a book. He occasionally preached at nearby Hungarian churches. His wife found work as a machine operator and Tibor, their third son, entered American public school.\n\nWhen World War II ended, General Farkas was designated as the U.S. Army's liaison to former Hungarian prisoners of war. In 1951 he recommended Bánáthy as a Hungarian language instructor, and Bánáthy was invited to teach at the U.S. government's Army Language School in Monterey, California. Bánáthy moved to Monterey in June 1951, a pivotal change in his life. At the Army Language School, he met Joseph Szentkiralyi (Americanized as St. Clair), the founder of the Hungarian Department. They soon figured out they had met at the 4th World Scout Jamboree in 1933. The wives of the two men also realized they had been girlhood friends in grammar school in Budapest. Using her experience managing the Pallendal family restaurant in Budapest before World War II, Eva took work as a waitress in a restaurant on the Monterey Peninsula. Bánáthy served as President of his local Parent-Teacher Association and on the board of the local Red Cross. In the same year, Paul Ferenc Sujan, another former Hungarian scout, joined the language school faculty.\n\nOn February 28, 1956, Bánáthy was naturalized as a United States citizen. After nine years of separation, and repeated failures to get his sons repatriated from behind the Iron Curtain, Bánáthy obtained help from Dr. Eugene Blake, President of the National Council of Churches; Representative Charles M. Teague; Ernest Nagy, Vice Consul in the U.S. Legation in Budapest; Hulda Neiburh of the McCormick Theological Seminary; and Howard Pyle, deputy assistant to President Dwight D. Eisenhower. He was finally able to arrange for 13-year-old Béla and 11-year-old László to emigrate to the United States A photograph of the two boys greeting their mother was featured in \"Life Magazine.\"\n\nBánáthy was an educator, a systems and design scientist, and an author. At the Army Language School, he taught in the Hungarian language department, later becoming its chairman.\n\nIn 1957 Bánáthy began enlarging a concept for a leadership development program. As Council Training Chairman in the Monterey Bay Area Council of the Boy Scouts of America, he received strong support from the Council Executive and Council Executive Board for his proposal to train boys in leadership skills. He was assisted by fellow Hungarians Joe Szentkiralyi (aka St. Clair, Chair of the Hungarian Language Department at the Army Language school) and Paul Sujan (Hungarian Language Instructor at the Army Language school); Fran Peterson (a member of the National Council and a Scoutmaster from Chular, California); and Maury Tripp (a Scouter from Saratoga, California, a member of the National Council, and a research scientist). \"Lord Baden-Powell was my personal idol and I long felt a commitment to give back to Scouting what I had received\", Bánáthy said.\n\nAs part of his master's degree program in counseling psychology at San José State University, he wrote a thesis titled \"A Design for Leadership Development in Scouting\". This book described the founding principles of the White Stag program, which was later adapted by the National Council of the Boy Scouts of America. Prior to Bánáthy's work, the adult Wood Badge and the junior leader training programs had focused on teaching Scoutcraft skills and some aspects of the Patrol Method. His research and findings on teaching principles and competencies of leadership had a huge impact on these two programs, shifting their focus to leadership skills. \n\nSome individuals on the national staff and many volunteers across the nation resisted the idea of changing the focus of Wood Badge from training leaders in Scoutcraft to leadership skills. Among them was William \"Green Bar Bill\" Hillcourt, who had been the first United States Wood Badge Course Director in 1948. Although officially retired, he had many loyal followers. He was adamant that Wood Badge should continue to teach Scoutcraft skills and tried to persuade the national council to stick to that tradition, but his objections were ignored.\n\nThe leadership competencies Banathy articulated became the \"de facto\" method for Scout adult and junior leader training. (In 2008, the White Stag program celebrated its 50th anniversary.) In 1960, the Monterey Bay Area Council recognized Béla for his exceptional service to youth and awarded him the Silver Beaver.\n\nIn the 1970s, due to the success of the White Stag program, Bánáthy was appointed to the Interamerican Scout Committee and participated in three interamerican \"Train the Trainer\" events in Mexico, Costa Rica, and Venezuela. He guided their national training teams in designing leadership development by design programs. Béla also taught in Sunday School and was on the Board of the United Methodist Church of the Wayfarer in Carmel, California.\n\nIn the 1960s Bánáthy began teaching courses in applied linguistics and systems science at San José State University. In 1962 he was named Dean and Chairman of the East Europe and Middle East Division at the Army Language School, overseeing ten language departments. In 1963 he completed his master's degree in psychology at San Jose State University, and in 1966 he received a doctorate in education for a transdisciplinary program in education, systems theory, and linguistics from the University of California in Berkeley. During the mid-1960s Bánáthy was named Chair of Western Division of the Society for General Systems Research. He published his first book, \"Instructional Systems,\" in 1968.\n\nDuring the 1960s and 1970s, Bánáthy was a visiting professor at the University of California, Berkeley, and as he continued teaching at San Jose State University. In 1969, he left the renamed Defense Language Institute and became a Program Director, and later Senior Research Director and Associate Laboratory Director, at the Far West Laboratory for Research and Development (now WestEd) in Berkeley (later moved to San Francisco). He \"directed over fifty research and development programs, designed many curriculum projects and several large scale complex systems, including the design and implementation of a Ph.D. program in educational research and development for UC Berkeley\".\n\nIn the 1970s and 1980s, he focused his research on the application of systems and design theories and methodologies in social, social service, educational, and human development systems. In the 1980s he developed and guided a Ph.D. curriculum in humanistic systems inquiry and social systems design for the Saybrook Graduate School.\n\nIn 1981, he founded the International Systems Institute (ISI), a non-profit, public benefit scientific and educational corporation in Carmel, California, USA. He organized its first meeting at Fuschl am See, Austria in 1982.\n\nBanathy introduced a unique and never-before used approach to organizing the International Systems Institute conferences. Banathy observed that in traditional conferences, a few usually well-respected or prestigious individuals would apply to present \"pre-packaged new ideas\" to others. In typical conferences, presenting almost always carries more prestige than listening; the few presenters share their wisdom with the many. This one-to-many or \"hierarchical knowledge distribution system\" slowed the sharing and spreading of ideas about which many people cared deeply if not passionately, as there was always limited opportunity for interchange among participants. This interaction was usually wedged into the interstices of the formal schedule in the form of informal, spontaneous gatherings for which no record existed.\n\nThe notion that presenting is more important than listening aroused lifelong antipathy in Bánáthy. When he formulated the leadership competencies of the White Stag Leadership Development Program in the 1960s, he described the passing of knowledge from one to another as \"Manager of Learning\". He wrote extensively about how the focus should be on the learner, not the teacher.\n\nBánáthy advanced a different vision for conferences, one that would allow everyone to fully engage. He proposed that everyone be given the opportunity to prepare and distribute papers to all participants in advance of the conference. And instead of listening to speeches, conference attendees took part in extended, non-hierarchical conversations about the conference papers. The conference proceedings were the result of these conversations. Bánáthy felt strongly that systems scholars from all over the world should be given ongoing opportunities to engage in extended conversations so they might put their expertise \"actively into the service of humanity worldwide\".\n\nBánáthy wrote: \"We aspire to reap the 'reflecting and creating power' of groups that emerge in the course of disciplined and focused conversations on issues that are important to us and to our society\". Participants at International Systems Institute gatherings have, since the original meeting organized by Bánáthy in 1982, organized them around this principle and referred to them as \"conversations\".\n\nIn 1984, Bánáthy was co-founder with general evolution theorist Ervin László and others of the initially secret General Evolutionary Research Group, or General Evolutionary Research Group. A member of the Society of General Systems Research since the 1960s, he was Managing Director of the Society in the early 1980s, and in 1985 he became its president. He then served on its Board of Trustees. During the 1980s, he served on the Executive Committee of the International Federation of Systems Research. In 1989, he retired from Far West Labs and returned to live on the Monterey Peninsula. He continued to serve as Professor Emeritus for the Saybrook Graduate School, counseling Ph.D. students. He also continued his work with the annual ISI international systems design conversations, and authored a number of articles and books about systems, design, and evolutionary research. He served two terms as president of the International Federation of Systems Research during 1994-98.\n\nHe coordinated over twenty international systems research conferences held in eight countries, including the 1994 Conversation on Systems Design conversation held at Fuschl Am See, Austria, sponsored by the International Federation of Systems Research. He was also honorary editor of three international systems journals: Systems Research and Behavioral Science, the Journal of Applied Systems Studies, and Systems. He was on the Board of Editors of World Futures, and served as a contributing editor of Educational Technology.\n\nIn 1992, Bánáthy, a long-standing member of the Hungarian Scout Association Abroad (Külföldi Magyar Cserkészszövetség), traveled from his Monterey, California home in the United States to Hungary following its renewed freedom. There, he helped restart the Hungarian Scout Association within his native country.\n\nBánáthy spent considerable time during the last few years of his life caring for his wife Eva in their home in Carmel, California. She had been in poor health for a number of years after a stroke. In the summer of 2003 Bánáthy and his wife moved to live with their son Tibor in Chico, California. After a brief and unexpected illness, Bánáthy died on September 4, 2003. He and Eva had been married 64 years at the time of his death.\n\nBánáthy wrote and published several books and hundreds of articles. A selection:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "876255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=876255", "title": "Calculus ratiocinator", "text": "Calculus ratiocinator\n\nThe Calculus ratiocinator is a theoretical universal logical calculation framework, a concept described in the writings of Gottfried Leibniz, usually paired with his more frequently mentioned \"characteristica universalis\", a universal conceptual language.\n\nThere are two contrasting points of view on what Leibniz meant by \"calculus ratiocinator\". The first is associated with computer software, the second is associated with computer hardware.\n\n\n\nLeibniz constructed just such a machine for mathematical calculations, which was also called a Stepped Reckoner. As a computing machine, the ideal \"calculus ratiocinator\" would perform Leibniz's integral and differential calculus. In this way the meaning of the word, \"ratiocinator\" is clarified and can be understood as a mechanical instrument that combines and compares ratios.\nHartley Rogers saw a link between the two, defining the \"calculus ratiocinator\" as \"an algorithm which, when applied to the symbols of any formula of the characteristica universalis, would determine whether or not that formula were true as a statement of science\" (Hartley Rogers, Jr. 1963; p. 934).\n\nA classic discussion of the \"calculus ratiocinator\" is Couturat (1901: chapters 3 and 4), who maintained that the \"characteristica universalis\"—and thus the \"calculus ratiocinator\"—were inseparable from Leibniz's encyclopedic project (chapter 5). Hence the \"characteristic\", \"calculus ratiocinator\", and encyclopedia form three pillars of Leibniz's project.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11148114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11148114", "title": "Center for Community Change", "text": "Center for Community Change\n\nCommunity Change, formerly The Center for Community Change (CCC), is a progressive community organizing group active in the United States. It was founded in 1968 in response to civil rights concerns of the 1960s and to honor Robert F. Kennedy. The organization's stated mission is \"to build the power and capacity of low-income people, especially low-income people of color, to change their communities and public policies for the better.\" Community Change has received funding from the Democracy Alliance and the Tides Advocacy Fund. \n\nCommunity Change generally works in low-income areas, especially within communities of color, and attempts to create resident-based groups to work on local issues of concern. The organization sponsors internships and training programs in several areas, including community organizing, service learning, union organizing, electoral engagement, and youth/student organizing. The organization provides resources for grassroots groups including campaign strategy, funding and social media strategy. In 2004, through the collaboration with immigrant groups, Community Change organized the Fair Immigration Reform Movement that \"empowered immigrants to speak out.\" Community Change has helped to create government programs like the Community Reinvestment Act and the food stamps program.\n\nThe organization seeks to create workplace environments that value family, to guarantee minimum wage, \"unlock opportunities in the poorest communities, and increase income taxes for the wealthy.\n\nThe Center for Community Change launched the Fair Immigration Reform Movement (FIRM), an immigration reform movement working for comprehensive immigration reform. FIRM received funding from the Open Society Foundations and the Ford Foundation.\n\n"}
{"id": "26930998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26930998", "title": "Center for Research-Action on Race Relations", "text": "Center for Research-Action on Race Relations\n\nThe Center for Research-Action on Race Relations (CRARR) is a Canadian, non-profit civil rights organization committed to promoting racial harmony and equality. The organization functions as a service for victims of discrimination through activities involving advocacy, research and legal representation. It is considered a leader among non-profit organizations of its type in Canada.\n\nThe CRARR has supported and assisted over 250 victims of discrimination since its inception in 1983. It takes on approximately 75 new cases per year. The majority of individuals aided come from the Montreal area, however, assistance is not limited to this region.\n\nThe organization was founded in 1983 in Montreal, Quebec, Canada and while it has expanded the reach of its work to other parts of Canada, it maintains its base in Montreal. It was co-founded by Fo Niemi, who has maintained the title of executive director since the organization’s creation.\n\n The organization’s motto is \"United for Diversity and Racial Equality.\" Its mandate, broadly speaking, is \"to promote racial harmony and equality in Canada\".\nThe organization is actively engaged in promoting equality and multicultural representation in Canada through various activities. As such, the CRARR has a strong commitment to promoting racial equality, believing that \"When it comes to real inclusion—real integration, real presence in decision-making positions—we still have a fairly long way to go\". This position demonstrates the organization’s belief that underrepresentation of minorities is a social injustice that must be corrected.\n\nThe CRARR’s areas of expertise include discrimination and harassment in employment; discrimination in school discipline; hate crimes and hate incidents; hate on the internet; homophobia; media bias; racial profiling in public services and employment; systemic racism and critical race analysis and union misrepresentation.\n\ni. Services and Activities \nThe organization’s goals are largely focused on policy interventions, public education and mobilization, promotion and recognition, research-action, and training and consulting. More specifically, the organization offers a wide range of services and activities, including:\n\nIn addition, the organization also honours an individual or non-profit organization with its bi-annual Frederick Johnson award. Past recipients include Hank Avery, African-Canadian who pushed for the recognition of a black slave’s cemetery in Quebec, the organization Mothers United Against Racism and Hon. Irwin Cotler, Canada’s former Minister of Justice and Attorney-General.\n\nIn 2004-2005, the CRARR hosted a conference on youth crime prevention. Additionally, the organization hosts an annual lecture on Diversity in Canadian Media that is co-sponsored by the department of Communication Studies at Concordia University in Montreal.\n\nii. Recent Activities\nThe CRARR, represented by Civil Rights Advocate Elena Toews, is currently assisting two groups of black residents of Southwest Montreal who have filed claims with the Quebec Human Rights Commission. The individuals, Samantha Hyman-Roberts and Gallo Cham, have claimed that they were both racially profiled and abused by transit authorities after failing to show proof that they had purchased transit tickets. Both Hyman-Roberts and Cham are asking for $50,000 and $30,000, respectively. The complaints are currently in the process of being filed on behalf of the individuals by the CRARR.\n\niii. Past Successes\nThe CRARR has been granted intervener status in two discrimination cases reviewed by the Supreme Court of Canada. One was Lavoie v. Canada (2002) which discussed giving preference to citizens over non-citizens for government jobs. As intervener, the CRARR argued that the practice was discriminatory and \"the preference operated in a particularly invidious way with respect to women.\" The CRARR argued that many women keep foreign citizenship out of practical considerations, such as maintain the ability to return to their former country to take care of elderly parents. The reality that citizens receive preference over non-citizens is contrary to the federal action plan, Embracing Change, that was created in 2000 to increase the representation of visible minorities in the federal public service which can often include non-citizens.\n\nIn addition, the organization has also achieved the following:\n\n-intervened in a number of cases before the Canadian and Quebec Human Rights Commissions and helped victims of racism receive over $400,000 in damages through various court cases\n-won a case before the Canadian Human Rights Tribunal against a man in British Columbia who was affiliated with a neo-Nazi website\n-aided a number of individuals in filing complaints against discriminatory and unethical police and transit authority behavior.\n\ni. Employees/Volunteers\nThe organization attracts interns who study in law, political science, social work and communications. At least six lawyers are associated with and work closely to the rest of the CRARR team in addition to a number of other experts across Canada who lend their expertise and advice to the organization.\n\nii. Funding\n\niii. Partners\nResources and Skills Development Canada, the Ministry of Immigration and Cultural\nCommunities of Quebec, the National Crime Prevention Strategy and the Secrétariat à l’action communautaire autonome du Québec. Some non-governmental partners include the Royal Bank of Canada, Banque Nationale, CHUM Ltd., Canadian Auto Workers, the National Council of Visible Minorities in the Federal Public Service, the Canadian Jewish Congress, and the Canadian Race Relations Foundation.\n\n"}
{"id": "33710315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33710315", "title": "Comparison of sensory perception in species", "text": "Comparison of sensory perception in species\n"}
{"id": "215934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215934", "title": "Consent", "text": "Consent\n\nConsent occurs when one person voluntarily agrees to the proposal or desires of another. It is a term of common speech, but may have more specific definitions in such fields as the law, medicine, research, and sexual relationships. \n\nTypes of consent include implied consent, expressed consent, informed consent and unanimous consent. Consent as understood in specific contexts may differ from its everyday meaning. For example, a person with a mental disorder, a low mental age, or under the legal age of sexual consent may willingly engage in a sexual act that still fails to meet the legal threshold for consent as defined by applicable law. UN agencies and initiatives in sex education programs believe that teaching the topic of consent as part of a comprehensive sexuality education is beneficial.\n\n\nConsent can be either expressed or implied. For example, participation in a contact sport usually implies consent to a degree of contact with other participants, implicitly agreed and often defined by the rules of the sport. Another specific example is where a boxer cannot complain of being punched on the nose by an opponent; implied consent will be valid where the violence is ordinarily and reasonably to be contemplated as incidental to the sport in question. Express consent exists when there is oral or written agreement, particularly in a contract. For example, businesses may require that persons sign a waiver (called a liability waiver) acknowledging and accepting the hazards of an activity. This proves express consent, and prevents the person from filing a tort lawsuit for unauthorised actions.\n\nIn English law, the principle of \"volenti non fit injuria\" applies not only to participants in sport, but also to spectators and to any others who willingly engage in activities where there is a risk of injury. Consent has also been used as a defense in cases involving accidental deaths during sex, which occur during sexual bondage. \"Time\" (May 23, 1988) referred to this latter example, as the \"rough-sex defense\". It is not effective in English law in cases of serious injury or death.\n\nAs a term of jurisprudence prior provision of consent signifies a possible defence (an excuse or justification) against civil or criminal liability. Defendants who use this defense are arguing that they should not be held liable for a tort or a crime, since the actions in question took place with the plaintiff or \"victim's\" prior consent and permission.\n\nThe question of consent is important in medical law. For example, a medical practitioner may be liable for harm to a patient by a procedure which was not consented to. There are exemptions, such as when the patient is unable to give consent.\n\nAlso, a medical practitioner must explain the significant risks of a procedure (those that might change the patient's mind about whether or not to have it) before the patient can give binding consent. This was explored in Australia in \"Rogers v Whitaker\". If a practitioner does not explain a material risk that subsequently eventuates, then that is considered negligent. These material risks include the loss of chance of a better result if a more experienced surgeon had performed the procedure.\nIn the UK, a Supreme Court judgment modernised the law on consent and introduced a patient-focused test to UK law: allowing the patient rather than the medical professionals to decide upon the level of risk they wish to take in terms of a particular course of action, given all the information available. This change reflects the Guidance of the General Medical Council on the requirement to consent patients, and removes the rule of medical paternalism.\n\nSocial scientists are generally required to obtain informed consent from research participants before asking interview questions or conducting an experiment. Federal law governs social science research that involves human subjects, and tasks institutional review boards (IRBs) at universities, federal or state agencies, and tribal organizations to oversee social science research that involves human subjects and to make decisions about whether or not informed consent is necessary for a social scientific study to go forward. Informed consent in this context generally means explaining the study's purpose to research participants and obtaining a signed or verbal affirmation that the study participants understand the procedures to be used and to consent to participate in the study. \n\nSome types of social scientific research, such as psychological experiments, may use deception as part of the study; in these cases, researchers may not fully describe the procedures to participants, and thus participants are not fully informed. However, researchers are required to debrief participants immediately after the experiment is concluded. Certain populations are considered to be vulnerable, and in addition to informed consent, special protections must be made available to them. These include persons who are incarcerated, pregnant women, persons with disabilities, and persons who have a mental disability. Children are considered unable to provide informed consent.\n\nSome countries, such as New Zealand with its Resource Management Act and its Building Act, use the term \"consent\" for the legal process that provide planning permission for developments like subdivisions, bridges or buildings. Achieving permission results in getting \"Resource consent\" or \"Building consent\".\n\nIn Canada \"consent means…the voluntary agreement of the complainant to engage in sexual activity\" without abuse or exploitation of \"trust, power or authority\", coercion or threats. Consent can also be revoked at any moment.\n\nSexual consent plays an important role in defining what sexual assault is, since sexual activity without consent by all parties is considered rape. In the late 1980s, academic Lois Pineau argued that we must move towards a more communicative model of sexuality so that consent becomes more explicit and clear, objective and layered, with a more comprehensive model than \"no means no\" or \"yes means yes\". Many universities have instituted campaigns about consent. Creative campaigns with attention-grabbing slogans and images that market consent can be effective tools to raise awareness of campus sexual assault and related issues.\n\nSince the late 1990s, new models of sexual consent have been proposed. Specifically, the development of \"yes means yes\" and affirmative models, such as Hall's definition: \"the voluntary approval of what is done or proposed by another; permission; agreement in opinion or sentiment.\" Hickman and Muehlenhard state that consent should be \"free verbal or nonverbal communication of a feeling of willingness' to engage in sexual activity.\" Affirmative consent may still be limited since the underlying, individual circumstances surrounding the consent cannot always be acknowledged in the \"yes means yes\", or in the \"no means no\", model.\n\nSome individuals are unable to give consent. Children or minors below a certain age, the age of sexual consent in that jurisdiction, are deemed not able to give valid consent by law to sexual acts. Likewise, persons with Alzheimer's disease or similar disabilities may be unable to give legal consent to sexual relations even with their spouse.\n\nWithin literature, definitions surrounding consent and how it should be communicated have been contradictory, limited or without consensus. Roffee argued that legal definition needs to be universal, so as to avoid confusion in legal decisions. He also demonstrated how the moral notion of consent does not always align with the legal concept. For example, some adult siblings or other family members may voluntarily enter into a relationship, however the legal system still deems this as incestual, and therefore a crime. Roffee argues that the use of particular language in the legislation regarding these familial sexual activities manipulates the reader to view it as immoral and criminal, even if all parties are consenting. Similarly, some children under the legal age of consent may knowingly and willingly choose to be in a sexual relationship. However the law does not view this as legitimate. Whilst there is a necessity for an age of consent, it does not allow for varying levels of awareness and maturity. Here it can be seen how a moral and a legal understanding do not always align.\n\nInitiatives in sex education programs are working towards including and foregrounding topics of and discussions of sexual consent, in primary, high school and college Sex Ed curricula. In the UK, the Personal Social Health and Economic Education Association (PSHEA) is working to produce and introduce Sex Ed lesson plans in British schools that include lessons on \"consensual sexual relationships,\" \"the meaning and importance of consent\" as well as \"rape myths\". In U.S., California-Berkeley University has implemented affirmative and continual consent in education and in the school’s policies. In Canada, the Ontario government has introduced a revised Sex Ed curriculum to Toronto schools, including new discussions of sex and affirmative consent, healthy relationships and communication. Many universities have instituted campaigns about consent. Creative campaigns with attention-grabbing slogans and images that market consent can be effective tools to raise awareness of campus sexual assault and related issues.\n\nAffirmative consent (enthusiastic yes) is when both parties agree to sexual conduct, either through clear, verbal communication or nonverbal cues or gestures. It involves communication and the active participation of people involved. This is the approach endorsed by colleges and universities in the U.S., which describe consent as an \"affirmative, unambiguous, and conscious decision by each participant to engage in mutually agreed-upon sexual activity.\" According to Yoon-Hendricks, a staff writer for Sex, Etc., \"Instead of saying 'no means no,' 'yes means yes' looks at sex as a positive thing.\" Ongoing consent is sought at all levels of sexual intimacy regardless of the parties' relationship, prior sexual history or current activity (\"Grinding on the dance floor is not consent for further sexual activity,\" a university policy reads). By definition, affirmative consent cannot be given if a person is intoxicated, unconscious or asleep.\n\nThere are 3 pillars often included in the description of sexual consent, or \"the way we let others know what we're up for, be it a good-night kiss or the moments leading up to sex.\"\n\nThey are:\n\n\nTo obtain affirmative consent, rather than waiting to say or for a partner to say \"no\", one gives and seeks an explicit \"yes\". This can come in the form of a smile, a nod or a verbal yes, as long as it's unambiguous, enthusiastic and ongoing. \"There's varying language, but the language gets to the core of people having to communicate their affirmation to participate in sexual behavior,\" said Denice Labertew of the California Coalition Against Sexual Assault. \"It requires a fundamental shift in how we think about sexual assault. It's requiring us to say women and men should be mutually agreeing and actively participating in sexual behavior.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "14523851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14523851", "title": "Cremona diagram", "text": "Cremona diagram\n\nThe Cremona diagram, also known as the Cremona-Maxwell method, is a graphical method used in statics of trusses to determine the forces in members (graphic statics). The method was developed by the Italian mathematician Luigi Cremona. However, recognizable Cremona diagrams appeared as early as 1725, in Pierre Varignon's posthumously published work, \"Nouvelle Méchanique ou Statique\".\n\nIn the Cremona method, first the external forces and reactions are drawn (to scale) forming a vertical line in the lower right side of the picture. This is the sum of all the force vectors and is equal to zero as there is mechanical equilibrium.\n\nSince the equilibrium holds for the external forces on the entire truss construction, it also holds for the internal forces acting on each joint. For a joint to be \"at rest\" the sum of the forces on a joint must also be equal to zero. Starting at joint \"Aorda\", the internal forces can be found by drawing lines in the Cremona diagram representing the forces in the members 1 and 4, going clockwise; \"V\" (going up) load at \"A\" (going down), force in member 1 (going down/left), member 4 (going up/right) and closing with \"V\". As the force in member 1 is towards the joint, the member is under compression, the force in member 4 is away from the joint so the member 4 is under tension. The length of the lines for members 1 and 4 in the diagram, multiplied with the chosen scale factor is the magnitude of the force in members 1 and 4.\n\nNow, in the same way the forces in members 2 and 6 can be found for joint \"C\"; force in member 1 (going up/right), force in \"C\" going down, force in 2 (going down/left), force in 6 (going up/left) and closing with the force in member 1.\n\nThe same steps can be taken for joints \"D\", \"H\" and \"E\" resulting in the complete Cremona diagram where the internal forces in all members are known.\n\nIn a next phase the forces caused by wind must be considered. Wind will cause pressure on the upwind side of a roof (and truss) and suction on the downwind side. This will translate to asymmetrical loads but the Cremona method is the same. Wind force may introduce larger forces in the individual truss members than the static vertical loads.\n"}
{"id": "17335834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17335834", "title": "Dominion Rules", "text": "Dominion Rules\n\nDominion Rules (DR) is a role-playing game system for historical and fantasy role-playing. DR is notable in the history of role-playing games for being one of the first RPGs to be released under an open source (or open gaming) licence, known as the Dominion Rules Licence. Development of the game followed an open source model whereby contributors, known as the Dominion Games Development Team, made improvements or additions to the game and published them on the internet (often through the Dominion Games web site) under the terms of the Dominion Rules Licence, thus explicitly encouraging the creation of new skills, spells, beasts and rules by its modular structure in an attempt to establish an equivalent to the Open Source Software model in RPG gaming.\n\nDR is a skills-based role-playing game system based on the twelve-sided die (d12). The game mechanic is the same for almost all actions: players roll d12 trying to roll less than or equal to the applicable skill stat, as modified by any applicable bonuses or penalties. For example, a character seeking to strike an opponent with his weapon begins with his Strike stat, adds to it the Strike bonus applicable to his weapon, and subtracts from that any defensive penalties imposed by his opponent's defensive manoeuvres and armour. A roll of 12 always fails. In many cases, a roll of 12 has particularly negative results. \n\nDR is designed around three major skill types, namely combat skills, priestcraft skills and witchcraft skills. All characters have access to combat skills. Priest-style characters have access to priest-specific skills such as bless, consecrate, curse, defile, heal, smite, wrath, and work miracle. Magic-using characters may either cast pre-made spells or employ free-form magic, both of which are essentially another type of skill use.\n\nThe DR rules system is intended to be generic and does not describe the kind of world (or \"campaign setting\") to which they apply. The system can be used in a variety of RPG settings by excluding or modifying certain rules. For a historical setting, players simply disregard the priestcraft and witchcraft rules.\n\nDominion Rules was one of the first RPGs to be released under an open source style (or open gaming style) licence, known as the Dominion Rules Licence. The current version of DR is distributed under version 2.0 of the Dominion Rules Licence. \n\nThe current version of DR is free to download from http://www.dominionrules.org. Copies of the previous versions can be found in various places on the internet.\n\nDR 1.0 appeared in 1999. It was revised and republished as version 2.0 in 2001. Both versions were distributed by Dominion Games. No retail, print versions of the game were published. DR 2.0 received some favourable reviews.\n\nDominion Games and their web site disappeared around 2006. The creators of the Dominion Rules released version 3.0 in April 2008 from http://www.dominionrules.org to favourable reviews.\n"}
{"id": "971289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=971289", "title": "Dropsonde", "text": "Dropsonde\n\nA dropsonde is an expendable weather reconnaissance device created by the National Center for Atmospheric Research (NCAR), designed to be dropped from an aircraft at altitude over water to measure (and therefore track) storm conditions as the device falls to the surface. The sonde contains a GPS receiver, along with pressure, temperature, and humidity (PTH) sensors to capture atmospheric profiles and thermodynamic data. It typically relays these data to a computer in the aircraft by radio transmission.\n\nSince the early 1970s, hurricane hunters have employed dropsondes while flying over the ocean to obtain meteorological data on the structure of hurricanes deemed to be of possible concern to land locations in the northern Atlantic and northeastern Pacific oceans. Dropsonde instruments are typically the only way to measure the wind and pressure near the sea surface within the core of such cyclones, allowing meteorologists to reliably establish the storm's intensity and size. The data obtained is typically fed into supercomputers for numerical weather prediction, enabling forecasters to better track and predict what will happen to the hurricane. During a typical hurricane season, the 53d Weather Reconnaissance Squadron Hurricane Hunters deploys 1000 to 1500 sondes on training and storm missions.\n\nAircraft reconnaissance missions are also sometimes requested to investigate the broader atmospheric structure over the ocean when cyclones may pose a significant threat to the United States. These interests include not only potential hurricanes, but also possible snow events (like nor'easters) or significant tornado outbreaks. The dropsondes are used to supplement the large gaps over oceans within the global network of daily radiosonde launches. Typically satellite data provides an estimate of conditions in such areas, but the increased precision of sondes can improve forecasts, particularly of the storm path.\n\nDropsondes may also be employed during meteorological research projects.\n\nThe sonde is a lightweight system designed to be operated by one person and is launched through a chute installed in the measuring aircraft. The device's descent is slowed and stabilized by a small square-cone parachute, allowing for more readings to be taken before it reaches the ocean surface. The parachute is designed to immediately deploy after release so as to reduce or eliminate any pendulum effect, and the device typically drops for three to five minutes. The sonde has a casing of stiff cardboard to protect electronics and form a more stable aerodynamic profile.\n\nTo obtain data in a tropical cyclone, an aircraft (in the US, operated either by NOAA or the U.S. Air Force) flies into the system. A series of dropsondes are typically released as the plane passes through the storm, typically launched with greatest frequency near the center of the storm, including into the eyewall and eye (center), if one exists. Most drops are performed at a flight level of around 10,000 feet (approx. 3,000 meters).\n\nThe dropsonde sends back coded data, which includes:\n\nAlso included in the report is information on the aircraft, the mission, the dropsonde itself, and other remarks.\n\nA driftsonde is a high altitude, durable weather balloon holding a transmitter and a bank (35 in the first models) of miniature dropsonde capsules which can then be dropped at automatic intervals or remotely. The water-bottle-sized transmitters in the dropsondes have enough power to send information to the balloon during their parachute-controlled fall. The balloon carries a larger transmitter powerful enough to relay readings to a satellite. The single-use sensor packages cost US$300 to $400 each.\n\nAfter being introduced in April 2007, around a thousand a year are expected to be used to track winds in hurricane breeding grounds off of West Africa, which are outside the operating region of Hurricane Hunter planes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "71376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=71376", "title": "Ed Gein", "text": "Ed Gein\n\nEdward Theodore Gein (; August 27, 1906 – July 26, 1984), also known as The Butcher of Plainfield, was an American murderer and body snatcher. His crimes, committed around his hometown of Plainfield, Wisconsin, gathered widespread notoriety after authorities discovered that Gein had exhumed corpses from local graveyards and fashioned trophies and keepsakes from their bones and skin. Gein confessed to killing two women – tavern owner Mary Hogan in 1954, and a Plainfield hardware store owner, Bernice Worden, in 1957. Gein was initially found unfit to stand trial and confined to a mental health facility. In 1968, Gein was found guilty but legally insane of the murder of Worden, and was remanded to a psychiatric institution. He died at Mendota Mental Health Institute of cancer-induced liver and respiratory failure at age 77 on July 26, 1984. He is buried next to his family in the Plainfield Cemetery, in a now-unmarked grave.\n\nEd Gein was born in La Crosse County, Wisconsin, on August 27, 1906, the second of two boys of George Philip Gein (1873–1940) and Augusta Wilhelmine (née Lehrke) Gein (1878–1945). Gein had an older brother, Henry George Gein (1901–1944). Augusta despised her husband, an alcoholic who was unable to keep a job; he had worked at various times as a carpenter, tanner, and insurance salesman. George owned a local grocery shop for a few years, but sold the business, and the family left the city to live in isolation on a 155-acre farm in the town of Plainfield in Waushara County, Wisconsin, which became the Gein family's permanent residence.\n\nAugusta took advantage of the farm's isolation by turning away outsiders who could have influenced her sons. Edward left the farm only to attend school. Outside of school, he spent most of his time doing chores on the farm. Augusta was fervently religious, and nominally Lutheran. She preached to her boys about the innate immorality of the world, the evil of drinking, and her belief that all women (except herself) were naturally prostitutes and instruments of the devil. She reserved time every afternoon to read to them from the Bible, usually selecting graphic verses from the Old Testament concerning death, murder, and divine retribution.\n\nEdward was shy, and classmates and teachers remembered him as having strange mannerisms, such as seemingly random laughter, as if he were laughing at his own personal jokes. To make matters worse, his mother punished him whenever he tried to make friends. Despite his poor social development, he did fairly well in school, particularly in reading.\n\nOn April 1, 1940, Ed's father George died of heart failure caused by his alcoholism; he was 66 years old. Henry and Ed began doing odd jobs around town to help cover living expenses. The brothers were generally considered reliable and honest by residents of the community. While both worked as handymen, Ed also frequently babysat for neighbors. He enjoyed babysitting, seeming to relate more easily to children than adults. Henry began dating a divorced, single mother of two and planned on moving in with her; Henry worried about his brother's attachment to their mother and often spoke ill of her around Ed, who responded with shock and hurt.\n\nOn May 16, 1944, Henry and Ed were burning away marsh vegetation on the property; the fire got out of control, drawing the attention of the local fire department. By the end of the day – the fire having been extinguished and the firefighters gone – Ed reported his brother missing. With lanterns and flashlights, a search party searched for Henry, whose dead body was found lying face down. Apparently, he had been dead for some time, and it appeared that the cause of death was heart failure, since he had not been burned or injured otherwise. It was later reported, in Harold Schechter's biography of Gein, \"Deviant\", that Henry had bruises on his head. The police dismissed the possibility of foul play and the county coroner later officially listed asphyxiation as the cause of death. The authorities accepted the accident theory, but no official investigation was conducted and an autopsy was not performed. Some suspected that Ed Gein killed his brother. Questioning Gein about the death of Bernice Worden in 1957, state investigator Joe Wilimovsky brought up questions about Henry's death. George W. Arndt, who studied the case, wrote that, in retrospect, it was \"possible and likely\" that Henry's death was \"the \"Cain and Abel\" aspect of this case\".\n\nGein and his mother were now alone. Augusta had a paralyzing stroke shortly after Henry's death, and Gein devoted himself to taking care of her. Sometime in 1945, Gein later recounted, he and his mother visited a man named Smith, who lived nearby, to purchase straw. According to Gein, Augusta witnessed Smith beating a dog. A woman inside the Smith home came outside and yelled for him to stop but Smith beat the dog to death. Augusta was extremely upset by this scene, however, what bothered her did not appear to be the brutality toward the dog but rather the presence of the woman. Augusta told Ed that the woman was not married to Smith so had no business being there. \"Smith's harlot\", Augusta angrily called her. She had a second stroke soon after, and her health deteriorated rapidly. She died on December 29, 1945, at the age of 67. Ed was devastated by her death; in the words of author Harold Schechter, he had \"lost his only friend and one true love. And he was absolutely alone in the world.\"\n\nGein held on to the farm and earned money from odd jobs. He boarded up rooms used by his mother, including the upstairs, downstairs parlor, and living room, leaving them untouched; while the rest of the house became increasingly squalid, these rooms remained pristine. Gein lived thereafter in a small room next to the kitchen. Around this time, he became interested in reading death-cult magazines and adventure stories, particularly those involving cannibals or Nazi atrocities.\n\nGein was a handyman and received a farm subsidy from the federal government starting in 1951. He occasionally worked for the local municipal road crew and crop-threshing crews in the area. Sometime between 1946 and 1956, he also sold an 80-acre parcel of land that his brother Henry had owned.\n\nOn the morning of November 16, 1957, Plainfield hardware store owner Bernice Worden disappeared. A Plainfield resident reported that the hardware store's truck had been driven out from the rear of the building around 9:30 am. The hardware store was closed the entire day; some area residents believed this was because of deer hunting season. Bernice Worden's son, Deputy Sheriff Frank Worden, entered the store around 5:00 pm to find the store's cash register open and blood stains on the floor. Frank Worden told investigators that Ed Gein had been in the store the evening before his mother's disappearance, and that he would return the next morning for a gallon of antifreeze. A sales slip for a gallon of antifreeze was the last receipt written by Worden on the morning she disappeared. On the evening of the same day, Gein was arrested at a West Plainfield grocery store, and the Waushara County Sheriff's Department searched the Gein farm. A Waushara County Sheriff's deputy discovered Worden's decapitated body in a shed on Gein's property, hung upside down by her legs with a crossbar at her ankles and ropes at her wrists. The torso was \"dressed out like a deer\". She had been shot with a .22-caliber rifle, and the mutilations were made after her death.\n\nSearching the house, authorities found:\n\n\nThese artifacts were photographed at the state crime laboratory and then destroyed.\n\nWhen questioned, Gein told investigators that between 1947 and 1952, he made as many as 40 nocturnal visits to three local graveyards to exhume recently buried bodies while he was in a \"daze-like\" state. On about 30 of those visits, he said he came out of the daze while in the cemetery, left the grave in good order, and returned home empty-handed. On the other occasions, he dug up the graves of recently buried middle-aged women he thought resembled his mother and took the bodies home, where he tanned their skins to make his paraphernalia.\n\nGein admitted to stealing from nine graves from local cemeteries and led investigators to their locations. Allan Wilimovsky of the state crime laboratory participated in opening three test graves identified by Gein. The caskets were inside wooden boxes; the top boards ran crossways (not lengthwise). The tops of the boxes were about 2 feet (60 cm) below the surface in sandy soil. Gein had robbed the graves soon after the funerals while the graves were not completed. The test graves were exhumed because authorities were uncertain as to whether the slight Gein was capable of single-handedly digging up a grave during a single evening; they were found as Gein described: two of the exhumed graves were found empty (one had a crowbar in place of the body). One casket was empty; one casket Gein had failed to open when he lost his pry bar; and most of the body was gone from the third grave, but Gein had returned rings and some body parts. thus apparently corroborating Gein's confession.\n\nSoon after his mother's death, Gein began to create a \"woman suit\" so that \"...he could become his mother—to literally crawl into her skin\". Gein denied having sex with the bodies he exhumed, explaining: \"They smelled too bad.\" During state crime laboratory interrogation, Gein also admitted to the shooting death of Mary Hogan, a tavern owner missing since 1954 whose head was found in his house, but he later denied memory of details of her death.\n\nA 16-year-old youth, whose parents were friends of Gein and who attended ball games and movies with him, reported that Gein kept shrunken heads in his house, which Gein had described as relics from the Philippines, sent by a cousin who had served on the islands during World War II. Upon investigation by the police, these were determined to be human facial skins, carefully peeled from corpses and used by Gein as masks.\n\nGein was also considered a suspect in several other unsolved cases in Wisconsin, including the 1953 disappearance of Evelyn Hartley, a La Crosse babysitter.\n\nDuring questioning, Waushara County sheriff Art Schley reportedly assaulted Gein by banging his head and face into a brick wall. As a result, Gein's initial confession was ruled inadmissible. Schley died of heart failure at age 43 in 1968, before Gein's trial. Many who knew Schley said he was traumatized by the horror of Gein's crimes, and this, along with the fear of having to testify (especially about assaulting Gein), caused his death. One of his friends said: \"He was a victim of Ed Gein as surely as if he had butchered him.\"\n\nOn November 21, 1957, Gein was arraigned on one count of first degree murder in Waushara County Court, where he pleaded not guilty by reason of insanity. Gein was diagnosed with schizophrenia and found mentally incompetent, thus unfit for trial. He was sent to the Central State Hospital for the Criminally Insane (now the Dodge Correctional Institution), a maximum-security facility in Waupun, Wisconsin, and later transferred to the Mendota State Hospital in Madison, Wisconsin.\n\nIn 1968, doctors determined Gein was \"mentally able to confer with counsel and participate in his defense\". The trial began on November 7, 1968 and lasted one week. A psychiatrist testified that Gein had told him that he did not know whether the killing of Bernice Worden was intentional or accidental. Gein had told him that while he examined a gun in Worden's store, the gun went off, killing Worden. Gein testified that after trying to load a bullet into the rifle, it discharged. He said he had not aimed the rifle at Worden, and did not remember anything else that happened that morning.\n\nAt the request of the defense, Gein's trial was held without a jury, with Judge Robert H. Gollmar presiding. Gein was found guilty by Gollmar on November 14. A second trial dealt with Gein's sanity; after testimony by doctors for the prosecution and defense, Gollmar ruled Gein \"not guilty by reason of insanity\" and ordered him committed to Central State Hospital for the Criminally Insane. Gein spent the rest of his life in a mental hospital. Judge Gollmar wrote, \"Due to prohibitive costs, Gein was tried for only one murder—that of Mrs. Worden. He also admitted to killing Mary Hogan.\"\n\nGein's house and property were scheduled to be auctioned March 30, 1958, amid rumors the house was to become a tourist attraction. On March 27, the house was destroyed by fire. Arson was suspected, but the cause was never officially determined. When Gein learned of the incident while in detention, he shrugged and said, \"Just as well.\" Gein's car, which he used to haul the bodies of his victims, was sold at public auction for $760 to carnival sideshow operator Bunny Gibbons. Gibbons later charged carnival goers 25¢ admission to see it.\n\nGein died at the Mendota Mental Health Institute due to respiratory failure secondary to lung cancer on July 26, 1984, at the age of 77. Over the years, souvenir seekers chipped pieces from his gravestone at the Plainfield Cemetery, until the stone itself was stolen in 2000. It was recovered in June 2001, near Seattle, and was placed in storage at the Waushara County Sheriff's Department. The gravesite itself is now unmarked, but not unknown; Gein is interred between his parents and brother in the cemetery.\n\nThe story of Ed Gein has had a lasting effect on American popular culture as evidenced by its numerous appearances in film, music, and literature. The tale first came to widespread public attention in the fictionalized version presented by Robert Bloch in his 1959 suspense novel \"Psycho\". In addition to Alfred Hitchcock's 1960 film of Bloch's novel, \"Psycho\", Gein's story was loosely adapted into a number of films, including \"Deranged\" (1974), \"In the Light of the Moon\" (2000) (released in the United States and Australia as \"Ed Gein\" (2001)), \"\" (2007), \"Hitchcock\" (2012), and the Rob Zombie films \"House of 1000 Corpses\" and its sequel, \"The Devil's Rejects\". Gein served as the inspiration for a myriad of fictional serial killers across different mediums, most notably the likes of Norman Bates (\"Psycho\"), Leatherface (\"The Texas Chain Saw Massacre\"), Buffalo Bill (\"The Silence of the Lambs\") and the character Dr. Oliver Thredson from the TV series \"\".\n\nAmerican filmmaker Errol Morris and German filmmaker Werner Herzog attempted unsuccessfully to collaborate on a film project about Gein from 1975 to 1976. Morris interviewed Gein several times and ended up spending almost a year in Plainfield interviewing dozens of locals. The pair planned secretly to exhume Gein's mother from her grave to test a theory but never followed through on the scheme and eventually ended their collaboration. The aborted project was described in a 1989 \"New Yorker\" profile of Morris.\n\nAt the time, the news reports of Gein's crimes spawned a subgenre of \"black humor\". Since the 1950s, Gein has frequently been exploited by transgressive art or \"shock rock\", often without association with his life or crimes beyond the shock value of his name. Examples of this include the song titled \"Dead Skin Mask\" (1990) from the Slayer album \"Seasons in the Abyss\", \"Nothing to Gein\" (2001) from Mudvayne's album \"L.D. 50\", and \"Ed Gein\" (1992) from The Ziggens' album \"Rusty Never Sleeps\". There was the band Ed Gein called after the murderer. Ed Gein's atrocities were also satirized in Blind Melon's \"Skinned\" from the 1995 album \"Soup\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "146334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146334", "title": "Emergency", "text": "Emergency\n\nAn emergency is a situation that poses an immediate risk to health, life, property, or environment. Most emergencies require urgent intervention to prevent a worsening of the situation, although in some situations, mitigation may not be possible and agencies may only be able to offer palliative care for the aftermath.\n\nWhile some emergencies are self-evident (such as a natural disaster that threatens many lives), many smaller incidents require that an observer (or affected party) decide whether it qualifies as an emergency.\nThe precise definition of an emergency, the agencies involved and the procedures used, vary by jurisdiction, and this is usually set by the government, whose agencies (emergency services) are responsible for emergency planning and management.\n\nAn incident, to be an emergency, conforms to one or more of the following: if it:\n\nIn the United States, most states mandate that a notice be printed in each telephone book that requires that someone must relinquish use of a phone line, if a person requests the use of a telephone line (such as a party line) to report an emergency. State statutes typically define an \"emergency\" as, \"...a condition where life, health, or property is in jeopardy, and the prompt summoning of aid is essential.\"\n\nWhilst most emergency services agree on protecting human health, life and property, the environmental impacts are not considered sufficiently important by some agencies. This also extends to areas such as animal welfare, where some emergency organizations cover this element through the \"property\" definition, where animals owned by a person are threatened (although this does not cover wild animals). This means that some agencies do not mount an \"emergency\" response where it endangers wild animals or environment, though others respond to such incidents (such as oil spills at sea that threaten marine life). The attitude of the agencies involved is likely to reflect the predominant opinion of the government of the area.\n\nMany emergencies cause an immediate danger to the life of people involved. This can range from emergencies affecting a single person, such as the entire range of medical emergencies including heart attacks, strokes, cardiac arrest and trauma, to incidents that affect large numbers of people such as natural disasters including tornadoes, hurricanes, floods, earthquakes, mudslides and outbreaks of diseases such as cholera, Ebola, and malaria.\n\nMost agencies consider these the highest priority emergency, which follows the general school of thought that nothing is more important than human life.\n\nSome emergencies are not necessarily immediately threatening to life, but might have serious implications for the continued health and well-being of a person or persons (though a health emergency can subsequently escalate to life-threatening).\n\nThe causes of a health emergency are often very similar to the causes of an emergency threatening to life, which includes medical emergencies and natural disasters, although the \"range\" of incidents that can be categorized here is far greater than those that cause a danger to life (such as broken limbs, which do not usually cause death, but immediate intervention is required if the person is to recover properly). Many life emergencies, such as cardiac arrest, are also health emergencies.\n\nSome emergencies do not immediately endanger life, health or property, but do affect the natural environment and creatures living within it. Not all agencies consider this a genuine emergency, but it can have far-reaching effects on animals and the long term condition of the land. Examples would include forest fires and marine oil spills.\n\nAgencies across the world have different systems for classifying incidents, but all of them serve to help them allocate finite resource, by prioritising between different emergencies.\n\nThe first stage of any classification is likely to define whether the incident qualifies as an emergency, and consequently if it warrants an emergency response. Some agencies may still respond to non-emergency calls, depending on their remit and availability of resource. An example of this would be a fire department responding to help retrieve a cat from a tree, where no life, health or property is immediately at risk.\n\nFollowing this, many agencies assign a sub-classification to the emergency, prioritising incidents that have the most potential for risk to life, health or property (in that order). For instance, many ambulance services use a system called the Advanced Medical Priority Dispatch System (AMPDS) or a similar solution. The AMPDS categorises all calls to the ambulance service using it as either 'A' category (immediately life-threatening), 'B' Category (immediately health threatening) or 'C' category (non-emergency call that still requires a response). Some services have a fourth category, where they believe that no response is required after clinical questions are asked.\n\nAnother system for prioritizing medical calls is known as Emergency Medical Dispatch (EMD). Jurisdictions that use EMD typically assign a code of \"alpha\" (low priority), \"bravo\" (medium priority), \"charlie\" (requiring advanced life support), delta (high priority, requiring advanced life support) or \"echo\" (maximum possible priority, e.g., witnessed cardiac arrests) to each inbound request for service; these codes are then used to determine the appropriate level of response.\n\nOther systems (especially as regards major incidents) use objective measures to direct resource. Two such systems are SAD CHALET and ETHANE, which are both mnemonics to help emergency services staff classify incidents, and direct resource. Each of these acronyms helps ascertain the number of casualties (usually including the number of dead and number of non-injured people involved), how the incident has occurred, and what emergency services are required.\n\nMost developed countries have a number of emergency services operating within them, whose purpose is to provide assistance in dealing with any emergency. They are often government operated, paid for from tax revenue as a public service, but in some cases, they may be private companies, responding to emergencies in return for payment, or they may be voluntary organisations, providing the assistance from funds raised from donations.\n\nMost developed countries operate three core emergency services:\n\n\nThere may also be a number of specialized emergency services, which may be a part of one of the core agencies, or may be separate entities who assist the main agencies. This can include services, such as bomb disposal, search and rescue, and hazardous material operations.\n\nThe Military and the Amateur Radio Emergency Service (ARES) or Radio Amateur Civil Emergency Service (RACES) help in large emergencies such as a disaster or major civil unrest.\n\nMost countries have an emergency telephone number, also known as the universal emergency number, which can be used to summon the emergency services to any incident. This number varies from country to country (and in some cases by region within a country), but in most cases, they are in a short number format, such as 911 (United States and many parts of Canada), 999 (United Kingdom), 112 (Europe) and 000 (Australia).\n\nThe majority of mobile phones also dial the emergency services, even if the phone keyboard is locked, or if the phone has an expired or missing SIM card, although the provision of this service varies by country and network.\n\nIn addition to those services provided specifically for emergencies, there may be a number of agencies who provide an emergency service as an incidental part of their normal 'day job' provision. This can include public utility workers, such as in provision of electricity or gas, who may be required to respond quickly, as both utilities have a large potential to cause danger to life, health and property if there is an infrastructure failure\n\nGenerally perceived as pay per use emergency services, domestic emergency services are small, medium or large businesses who tend to emergencies within the boundaries of licensing or capabilities. These tend to consist of emergencies where health or property is perceived to be at risk but may not qualify for official emergency response. Domestic emergency services are in principal similar to civil emergency services where public or private utility workers will perform corrective repairs to essential services and avail their service at all times; however, these are at a cost for the service. An example would be an emergency plumber \n\nEmergency action principles are key 'rules' that guide the actions of rescuers and potential rescuers. Because of the inherent nature of emergencies, no two are likely to be the same, so emergency action principles help to guide rescuers at incidents, by sticking to some basic tenets.\n\nThe adherence to (and contents of) the principles by would-be rescuers varies widely based on the training the people involved in emergency have received, the support available from emergency services (and the time it takes to arrive) and the emergency itself.\n\nThe key principle taught in almost all systems is that the rescuer, be they a lay person or a professional, should assess the situation for danger.\n\nThe reason that an assessment for danger is given such high priority is that it is core to emergency management that rescuers do not become secondary victims of any incident, as this creates a further emergency that must be dealt with.\n\nA typical assessment for danger would involve observation of the surroundings, starting with the cause of the accident (e.g. a falling object) and expanding outwards to include any situational hazards (e.g. fast moving traffic) and history or secondary information given by witnesses, bystanders or the emergency services (e.g. an attacker still waiting nearby).\n\nOnce a primary danger assessment has been complete, this should not end the system of checking for danger, but should inform all other parts of the process.\n\nIf at any time the risk from any hazard poses a significant danger (as a factor of likelihood and seriousness) to the rescuer, they should consider whether they should approach the scene (or leave the scene if appropriate).\n\nThere are many emergency services protocols that apply in an emergency, which usually start with planning before an emergency occurs. One commonly used system for demonstrating the phases is shown here on the right.\n\nThe planning phase starts at preparedness, where the agencies decide how to respond to a given incident or set of circumstances. This should ideally include lines of command and control, and division of activities between agencies. This avoids potentially negative situations such as three separate agencies all starting an official emergency shelter for victims of a disaster.\n\nFollowing an emergency occurring, the agencies then move to a response phase, where they execute their plans, and may end up improvising some areas of their response (due to gaps in the planning phase, which are inevitable due to the individual nature of most incidents).\n\nAgencies may then be involved in recovery following the incident, where they assist in the clear up from the incident, or help the people involved overcome their mental trauma.\n\nThe final phase in the circle is mitigation, which involves taking steps to ensure no re-occurrence is possible, or putting additional plans in place to ensure less damage is done. This should feed back into the preparedness stage, with updated plans in place to deal with future emergencies, thus completing the circle.\n\nIn the event of a major incident, such as civil unrest or a major disaster, many governments maintain the right to declare a state of emergency, which gives them extensive powers over the daily lives of their citizens, and may include temporary curtailment on certain civil rights, including the right to trial. For instance to discourage looting of an evacuated area, a shoot on sight policy, however unlikely to occur, may be publicized.\n"}
{"id": "804737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=804737", "title": "Endowment effect", "text": "Endowment effect\n\nIn psychology and behavioral economics, the endowment effect (also known as divestiture aversion and related to the mere ownership effect in social psychology) is the hypothesis that people ascribe more value to things merely because they own them.\n\nThis is typically illustrated in two ways. In a valuation paradigm, people will tend to pay more to retain something they own than to obtain something they do not own—even when there is no cause for attachment, or even if the item was only obtained minutes ago. In an exchange paradigm, people given a good are reluctant to trade it for another good of similar value. For example, participants first given a Swiss chocolate bar were generally unwilling to trade it for a coffee mug, whereas participants first given the coffee mug were generally unwilling to trade it for the chocolate bar.\n\nA more controversial third paradigm used to elicit the endowment effect is the mere ownership paradigm, primarily used in experiments in psychology, marketing, and organizational behavior. In this paradigm, people who are randomly assigned to receive a good (\"owners\") evaluate it more positively than people who are not randomly assigned to receive the good (\"controls\"). The distinction between this paradigm and the first two is that it is not incentive-compatible. In other words, participants are not explicitly incentivized to reveal the extent to which they truly like or value the good.\n\nThe endowment effect can be equated to the behavioural model Willingness to Accept or Pay (WTAP), a formula sometimes used to find out how much a consumer or person is willing to put up with or lose for different outcomes.\n\nOne of the most famous examples of the endowment effect in the literature is from a study by Daniel Kahneman, Jack Knetsch & Richard Thaler, in which participants were given a mug and then offered the chance to sell it or trade it for an equally valued alternative (pens). They found that the amount participants required as compensation for the mug once their ownership of the mug had been established (\"willingness to accept\") was approximately twice as high as the amount they were willing to pay to acquire the mug (\"willingness to pay\").\n\nOther examples of the endowment effect include work by Ziv Carmon and Dan Ariely, who found that participants' hypothetical selling price (willingness to accept or WTA) for NCAA final four tournament tickets were 14 times higher than their hypothetical buying price (willingness to pay or WTP). Also, work by Hossain and List (Working Paper) discussed in the Economist in 2010, showed that workers worked harder to maintain ownership of a provisional awarded bonus than they did for a bonus framed as a potential yet-to-be-awarded gain. In addition to these examples, the endowment effect has been observed using different goods in a wide range of different populations, including children, great apes, and new world monkeys.\n\nThe endowment effect has been observed from ancient times:\n\nPsychologists first noted the difference between consumers' WTP and WTA as early as the 1960s. The term \"endowment effect\" however was first explicitly coined by the economist Richard Thaler in reference to the under-weighting of opportunity costs as well as the inertia introduced into a consumer's choice processes when goods included in their endowment become more highly valued than goods that are not. In the years that followed, extensive investigations into the endowment effect have been conducted producing a wealth of interesting empirical and theoretical findings.\n\nIt was proposed by Kahneman and his colleagues that the endowment effect is, in part, due to the fact that once a person owns an item, forgoing it feels like a loss, and humans are loss-averse. They go on to suggest that the endowment effect, when considered as a facet of loss-aversion, would thus violate the Coase theorem, and was described as inconsistent with standard economic theory which asserts that a person's willingness to pay (WTP) for a good should be equal to their willingness to accept (WTA) compensation to be deprived of the good, a hypothesis which underlies consumer theory and indifference curves. However, these claims have been disputed and other researchers claim that ownership (attribution of the item to self) and not loss aversion is the key to this phenomenon.\n\nAccording to reference-dependent theories, consumers first evaluate the potential change in question as either being a gain or a loss. In line with prospect theory (Tversky and Kahneman, 1979), changes that are framed as losses are weighed more heavily than are the changes framed as gains. Thus an individual owning \"A\" amount of a good, asked how much he/she would be willing to pay to acquire \"B', would be willing to pay a value (B-A) that is lower than the value that he/she would be willing to accept to sell (C-A) units; the value function for perceived gains is not as steep as the value function for perceived losses.\n\nFigure 1 presents this explanation in graphical form. An individual at point A, asked how much he/she would be willing to accept (WTA) as compensation to sell X units and move to point C, would demand greater compensation for that loss than he/she would be willing to pay for an equivalent gain of X units to move him/her to point B. Thus the difference between (B-A) and (C-A) would account for the endowment effect. In other words, he/she expects more money while selling; but wants to pay less while buying the same amount of goods.\n\nHanemann (1991), develops a neoclassical explanation for the endowment effect, accounting for the effect without invoking prospect theory.\n\nFigure 2 presents this explanation in graphical form. In the figure, two indifference curves for a particular good X and wealth are given. Consider an individual who is given goods X such they move from point A (where they have X of good X) to point B (where they have the same wealth and X of good X). Their WTP represented by the vertical distance from B to C, because (after giving up that amount of wealth) the individual is indifferent about being at A or C. Now consider an individual who gives up goods such that they move from B to A. Their WTA represented by the (larger) vertical distance from A to D because (after receiving that much wealth) they are indifferent about either being at point B or D. Shogren et al. (1994) has reported findings that lend support to Hanemann's hypothesis. However, Kahneman, Knetsch, and Thaler (1991) find that the endowment effect continues even when wealth effects are fully controlled for.\n\nConnection-based theories propose that the attachment or association with the self-induced by owning a good is responsible for the endowment effect (for a review, see Morewedge & Giblin, 2015). Work by Morewedge, Shu, Gilbert and Wilson (2009) provides support for these theories, as does work by Maddux et al. (2010). For example, research participants who were given one mug and asked how much they would pay for a second mug (\"owner-buyers\") were WTP as much as \"owners-sellers,\" another group of participants who were given a mug and asked how much they were WTA to sell it (both groups valued the mug in question more than buyers who were not given a mug). Others have argued that the short duration of ownership or highly prosaic items typically used in endowment effect type studies is not sufficient to produce such a connection, conducting research demonstrating support for those points (e.g. Liersch & Rottenstreich, Working Paper).\n\nTwo paths by which attachment or self-associations increase the value of a good have been proposed (Morewedge & Giblin, 2015). An attachment theory suggests that ownership creates a non-transferrable valenced association between the self and the good. The good is incorporated into the self-concept of the owner, becoming part of her identity and imbuing it with attributes related to her self-concept. Self-associations may take the form of an emotional attachment to the good. Once an attachment has formed, the potential loss of the good is perceived as a threat to the self. A real-world example of this would be an individual refusing to part with a college T-shirt because it supports one's identity as an alumnus of that university. A second route by which ownership may increase value is through a self-referential memory effect (SRE) – the better encoding and recollection of stimuli associated with the self-concept. People have a better memory for goods they own than goods they do not own. The self-referential memory effect for owned goods may act thus as an endogenous framing effect. During a transaction, attributes of a good may be more accessible to its owners than are other attributes of the transaction. Because most goods have more positive than negative features, this accessibility bias should result in owners more positively evaluating their goods than do non-owners.\n\nSeveral cognitive accounts of the endowment effect suggest that it is induced by the way endowment status changes the search for, attention to, recollection of, and weighting of information regarding the transaction. Frames evoked by acquisition of a good (e.g., buying, choosing it rather than another good) may increase the cognitive accessibility of information favoring the decision to keep one's money and not acquire the good. By contrast, frames evoked by disposition of the good (e.g., selling) may increase the cognitive accessibility of information favoring the decision to keep the good rather than trade or dispose of it for money (for a review, see Morewedge & Giblin, 2015). For example, Johnson and colleagues (2007) found that prospective mug buyers tended to recall reasons to keep their money before recalling reasons to buy the mug, whereas sellers tended to recall reasons to keep their mug before reasons to sell it for money.\n\nHuck, Kirchsteiger & Oechssler (2005) have raised the hypothesis that natural selection may favor individuals whose preferences embody an endowment effect given that it may improve one's bargaining position in bilateral trades. Thus in a small tribal society with a few alternative sellers (i.e. where the buyer may not have the option of moving to an alternative seller), having a predisposition towards embodying the endowment effect may be evolutionarily beneficial. This may be linked with findings (Shogren, et al., 1994) that suggest the endowment effect is less strong when the relatively artificial sense of scarcity induced in experimental settings is lessened. Countervailing evidence for an evolutionary account is provided by studies showing that the endowment effect is moderated by exposure to modern exchange markets (e.g., hunter gatherer tribes with market exposure are more likely to exhibit the endowment effect than tribes that do not), and that the endowment effect is moderated by culture (Maddux et al., 2010).\n\nSome economists have questioned the effect's existence. Hanemann (1991) noted that economic theory only suggests that WTP and WTA should be equal for goods which are close substitutes, so observed differences in these measures for goods such as environmental resources and personal health can be explained without reference to an endowment effect. Shogren, et al. (1994) noted that the experimental technique used by Kahneman, Knetsch and Thaler (1990) to demonstrate the endowment effect created a situation of artificial scarcity. They performed a more robust experiment with the same goods used by Kahneman, Knetsch and Thaler (chocolate bars and mugs) and found little evidence of the endowment effect. Others have argued that the use of hypothetical questions and experiments involving small amounts of money tells us little about actual behavior (e.g. Hoffman and Spitzer, 1993, p. 69, n. 23\n) with some research supporting these points (e.g., Kahneman, Knetsch and Thaler, 1990, Harless, 1989) and others not (e.g. Knez, Smith and Williams, 1985)\n\nHerbert Hovenkamp (1991) has argued that the presence of an endowment effect has significant implications for law and economics, particularly in regard to welfare economics. He argues that the presence of an endowment effect indicates that a person has no indifference curve (see however Hanemann, 1991) rendering the neoclassical tools of welfare analysis useless, concluding that courts should instead use WTA as a measure of value. Fischel (1995) however, raises the counterpoint that using WTA as a measure of value would deter the development of a nation's infrastructure and economic growth. The endowment effect changes the shape of the indifference curves substantially \n\nThe endowment effect has also been raised as a possible explanation for the lack of demand for reverse mortgage opportunities in the United States (contracts in which a home owner sells back her/his property to the bank in exchange for an annuity) (Huck, Kirchsteiger & Oechssler, 2005).\n\n\nMarzilli Ericson, K. M., & Fuster, A. (2014). The endowment effect. \"Annu. Rev. Econ.\", \"6\"(1), 555-579.\n\nMorewedge, C. K. (2016). Why buyers and sellers disagree on what things are worth. \"Harvard Business Review.\"\n\nMorewedge, C. K., & Giblin, C. E. (2015). Explanations of the endowment effect: an integrative review. \"Trends in cognitive sciences\", \"19\"(6), 339-348.\n\n"}
{"id": "950939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=950939", "title": "Equal Protection Clause", "text": "Equal Protection Clause\n\nThe Equal Protection Clause is part of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution. The clause, which took effect in 1868, provides \"nor shall any State [...] deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws\".\n\nA primary motivation for this clause was to validate the equality provisions contained in the Civil Rights Act of 1866, which guaranteed that all citizens would have the guaranteed right to equal protection by law. As a whole, the Fourteenth Amendment marked a large shift in American constitutionalism, by applying substantially more constitutional restrictions against the states than had applied before the Civil War.\n\nThe meaning of the Equal Protection Clause has been the subject of much debate, and inspired the well-known phrase \"Equal Justice Under Law\". This clause was the basis for \"Brown v. Board of Education\" (1954), the Supreme Court decision that helped to dismantle racial segregation, and also the basis for many other decisions rejecting discrimination against, and bigotry towards, people belonging to various groups.\n\nWhile the Equal Protection Clause itself applies only to state and local governments, the Supreme Court held in \"Bolling v. Sharpe\" (1954) that the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment nonetheless imposes various equal protection requirements on the federal government.\n\nThe Equal Protection Clause is located at the end of Section 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment:\n\nEquality as a concept has been enshrined in America since the Declaration of Independence. This does not mean that it was a part of daily life or legal practices. Before the passing of the reconstruction amendments, which included the Equal Protection Clause, there were various legal challenges for the rights of Black people in America. Blacks were considered inferior, and up until the Thirteenth Amendment, it was legal to own them as slaves. Even freed Blacks had no legal rights. In fact, in one of the most infamous Supreme Court cases of all time, the Court purported that Black’s in America had no constitutional rights which they could appeal to in society or in the courts. Before this decision there was nothing barring free Black Americans from theoretical access to rights under the law, but in the 1857 Scott v Sanford decision the Supreme Court created a precedence in which Black men, whether free or in bondage, had no legal rights within America. Many historians believed it was this judicial decision that set the United States on the path to the Civil War which would lead the the reconstruction amendments in which the Equal Protection Clause can be found.  \n\nBefore and during the Civil War, the Southern states violated the rights of free speech of pro-Union citizens, anti-slavery advocates, and northerners in general. During the Civil War, the Southern states stripped many white citizens of their state citizenship and banished them from the states, effectively confiscating their property. \nShortly after the Union victory in the American Civil War, the Thirteenth Amendment was proposed by Congress and ratified by the states in 1865, abolishing slavery. Many ex-Confederate states then adopted Black Codes following the war. These laws severely restricted the rights of blacks to hold property, including real property (such as real estate) and many forms of personal property, and to form legally enforceable contracts. These codes also created harsher criminal penalties for blacks than for whites.\n\nBecause of the inequality these Black Codes imposed, Congress enacted the Civil Rights Act of 1866. This Act provided that all those born in the United States were citizens (contrary to the Supreme Court's 1857 decision in \"Dred Scott v. Sandford\"), and required that \"citizens of every race and color ... [have] full and equal benefit of all laws and proceedings for the security of person and property, as is enjoyed by white citizens.\"\n\nPresident Andrew Johnson vetoed the Civil Rights bill of 1866 amid concerns (among other things) that Congress did not have the constitutional authority to pass such a law. Such doubts were one factor that led Congress to begin to draft and debate what would become the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Moreover, Congress wanted to protect white Unionists who were under personal and legal attack in the former Confederacy. The effort was led by the Radical Republicans of both houses of Congress, including John Bingham, Charles Sumner, and Thaddeus Stevens. The most important among these, however, was Bingham, a Congressman from Ohio, who drafted the language of the Equal Protection Clause.\n\nThe Southern states were opposed to the Civil Rights Act, but in 1865 Congress, exercising its power under Article I, section 5, clause 1 of the Constitution, to \"be the Judge of the ... Qualifications of its own Members\", had excluded Southerners from Congress, declaring that their states, having rebelled against the Union, could therefore not elect members to Congress. It was this fact—the fact that the Fourteenth Amendment was enacted by a \"rump\" Congress—that allowed the Equal Protection Clause to be passed by Congress and proposed to the states. Its ratification by the former Confederate states was made a condition of their reacceptance into the Union.\n\nWith the return to originalist interpretations of the Constitution, many wonder what was intended by the framers of the reconstruction amendments at the time of their ratification. The 13th amendment abolished slavery but to what extent it protected other rights was unclear. After the 13th amendment the South began to institute black codes which were restrictive laws seeking to keep Black Americans in a position of inferiority. The 14th amendment was ratified by nervous Republicans in response to the rise of Black codes. This ratification was irregular in many ways. First there were multiple states that rejected the 14th amendment, but when their new governments were created due to reconstruction, these new governments accepted the amendment. There were also two states, Ohio and New Jersey, that accepted the amendment and then later passed resolutions rescinding that acceptance. The nullification of the two state's acceptance was considered illegitimate and both Ohio and New Jersey were included in those counted as ratifying the amendment.\n\nMany historians have argued that 14th amendment was not originally intended to grant sweeping political and social rights to the citizens but instead to solidify the constitutionality of the 1866 Civil rights Act. While it is widely agreed that this was a key reason for the ratification of the Fourteenth Amendment, many historians adopt a much wider view. It is a popular interpretation that the Fourteenth Amendment was always meant to ensure equal rights for all those in American. This argument was used by Charles Sumner when he used the 14th amendment as the basis for his arguments to expand the protections afforded to Black Americans.\n\nThough the equal protection clause is one of the most cited ideas in legal theory, it received little attention during the ratification of the 14th amendment. Instead the key tenant of the Fourteenth Amendment at the time of its ratification was the Privileges and Immunities Clause. This clause sought to protect the privileges and immunities of all citizens which now included Black men. The scope of this clause was substantially narrowed following the Slaughterhouse Cases in which it was determined that a citizen's privileges and immunities were only ensured at the Federal level and that it was government overreach to impose this standard on the states . Even in this halting decision the Court still acknowledged the context in which the Amendment was passed, stating that knowing the evils and injustice the 14th amendment was meant to combat is key in our legal understanding of its implications and purpose. With the abridgment of the Privileges and Immunities clause, legal arguments aimed at protecting Black American's rights became more complex and that is when the equal protection clause started to gain attention for the arguments it could enhance.  \n\nDuring the debate in Congress, more than one version of the clause was considered. Here is the first version: \"The Congress shall have power to make all laws which shall be necessary and proper to secure ... to all persons in the several states equal protection in the rights of life, liberty, and property.\" Bingham said about this version: \"It confers upon Congress power to see to it that the protection given by the laws of the States shall be equal in respect to life and liberty and property to all persons.\" The main opponent of the first version was Congressman Robert S. Hale of New York, despite Bingham's public assurances that \"under no possible interpretation can it ever be made to operate in the State of New York while she occupies her present proud position.\"\n\nHale ended up voting for the final version, however. When Senator Jacob Howard introduced that final version, he said:\n\nIt prohibits the hanging of a black man for a crime for which the white man is not to be hanged. It protects the black man in his fundamental rights as a citizen with the same shield which it throws over the white man. Ought not the time to be now passed when one measure of justice is to be meted out to a member of one caste while another and a different measure is meted out to the member of another caste, both castes being alike citizens of the United States, both bound to obey the same laws, to sustain the burdens of the same Government, and both equally responsible to justice and to God for the deeds done in the body?\n\nThe 39th United States Congress proposed the Fourteenth Amendment on June 13, 1866. A difference between the initial and final versions of the clause was that the final version spoke not just of \"equal protection\" but of \"the equal protection of the laws\". John Bingham said in January 1867: \"no State may deny to any person the equal protection of the laws, including all the limitations for personal protection of every article and section of the Constitution ...\" By July 9, 1868, three-fourths of the states (28 of 37) ratified the amendment, and that is when the Equal Protection Clause became law.\n\nBingham said in a speech on March 31, 1871 that the clause meant no State could deny to any one \"the equal protection of the Constitution of the United States ... [or] any of the rights which it guarantees to all men\", nor deny to anyone \"any right secured to him either by the laws and treaties of the United States or of such State.\" At that time, the meaning of equality varied from one state to another. \n\nFour of the original thirteen states never passed any laws barring interracial marriage, and the other states were divided on the issue in the Reconstruction era. In 1872, the Alabama Supreme Court ruled that the state's ban on mixed-race marriage violated the \"cardinal principle\" of the 1866 Civil Rights Act and of the Equal Protection Clause. Almost a hundred years would pass before the U.S. Supreme Court followed that Alabama case (\"Burns v. State\") in the case of \"Loving v. Virginia\". In \"Burns\", the Alabama Supreme Court said:\n\nMarriage is a civil contract, and in that character alone is dealt with by the municipal law. The same right to make a contract as is enjoyed by white citizens, means the right to make any contract which a white citizen may make. The law intended to destroy the distinctions of race and color in respect to the rights secured by it.\n\nAs for public schooling, no states during this era of Reconstruction actually required separate schools for blacks. However, some states (e.g. New York) gave local districts discretion to set up schools that were deemed separate but equal. In contrast, Iowa and Massachusetts flatly prohibited segregated schools ever since the 1850s.\n\nLikewise, some states were more favorable to women's legal status than others; New York, for example, had been giving women full property, parental, and widow's rights since 1860, but not the right to vote. No state or territory allowed women's suffrage when the Equal Protection Clause took effect in 1868. In contrast, African American men had full voting rights in five states, at that time.\n\nIn the United States, the year 1877 marked the end of Reconstruction and the start of the Gilded Age. The first truly landmark equal protection decision by the Supreme Court was \"Strauder v. West Virginia\" (1880). A black man convicted of murder by an all-white jury challenged a West Virginia statute excluding blacks from serving on juries. Exclusion of blacks from juries, the Court concluded, was a denial of equal protection to black defendants, since the jury had been \"drawn from a panel from which the State has expressly excluded every man of [the defendant's] race.\" At the same time, the Court explicitly allowed sexism and other types of discrimination, saying that states \"may confine the selection to males, to freeholders, to citizens, to persons within certain ages, or to persons having educational qualifications. We do not believe the Fourteenth Amendment was ever intended to prohibit this. ... Its aim was against discrimination because of race or color.\"\n\nThe next important postwar case was the \"Civil Rights Cases\" (1883), in which the constitutionality of the Civil Rights Act of 1875 was at issue. The Act provided that all persons should have \"full and equal enjoyment of ... inns, public conveyances on land or water, theatres, and other places of public amusement.\" In its opinion, the Court explicated what has since become known as the \"state action doctrine\", according to which the guarantees of the Equal Protection Clause apply only to acts done or otherwise \"sanctioned in some way\" by the state. Prohibiting blacks from attending plays or staying in inns was \"simply a private wrong\". Justice John Marshall Harlan dissented alone, saying, \"I cannot resist the conclusion that the substance and spirit of the recent amendments of the Constitution have been sacrificed by a subtle and ingenious verbal criticism.\" Harlan went on to argue that because (1) \"public conveyances on land and water\" use the public highways, and (2) innkeepers engage in what is \"a quasi-public employment\", and (3) \"places of public amusement\" are licensed under the laws of the states, excluding blacks from using these services \"was\" an act sanctioned by the state.\nA few years later, Justice Stanley Matthews wrote the Court's opinion in \"Yick Wo v. Hopkins\" (1886). In it the word \"person\" from the 14th Amendment's section has been given the broadest possible meaning by the U.S. Supreme Court: \n\nThese provisions are universal in their application to all persons within the territorial jurisdiction, without regard to any differences of race, of color, or of nationality, and the equal protection of the laws is a pledge of the protection of equal laws. \n\nThus, the Clause would not be limited to discrimination against African Americans, but would extend to other races, colors, and nationalities such as (in this case) legal aliens in the United States who are Chinese citizens.\n\nIn its most contentious Gilded Age interpretation of the Equal Protection Clause, \"Plessy v. Ferguson\" (1896), the Supreme Court upheld a Louisiana Jim Crow law that required the segregation of blacks and whites on railroads and mandated separate railway cars for members of the two races. The Court, speaking through Justice Henry B. Brown, ruled that the Equal Protection Clause had been intended to defend equality in civil rights, not equality in social arrangements. All that was therefore required of the law was reasonableness, and Louisiana's railway law amply met that requirement, being based on \"the established usages, customs and traditions of the people.\" Justice Harlan again dissented. \"Every one knows,\" he wrote,\n\nSuch \"arbitrary separation\" by race, Harlan concluded, was \"a badge of servitude wholly inconsistent with the civil freedom and the equality before the law established by the Constitution.\" Harlan's philosophy of constitutional colorblindness would eventually become more widely accepted, especially after World War II.\n\nIt was also in the Gilded Age that a ruling by the Supreme Court included headnotes written by John C.Bancroft, a former railway company president. Bancroft, acting as court reporter, indicated in the headnotes that corporations were \"persons\", while the actual court decision itself avoided specific statements regarding the Equal Protection Clause as applied to corporations. However, the legal concept of corporate personhood predates the Fourteenth Amendment. In the late 19th and early 20th centuries, the Clause was used to strike down numerous statutes applying to corporations. Since the New Deal, however, such invalidations have been rare.\n\nThe \"Plessy\" decision was not all bad for civil rights. For example, in \"Missouri ex rel. Gaines v. Canada\" (1938), Lloyd Gaines was a black student at Lincoln University of Missouri, one of the historically black colleges in Missouri. He applied for admission to the law school at the all-white University of Missouri, since Lincoln did not have a law school, but was denied admission due solely to his race. The Supreme Court, applying the separate-but-equal principle of \"Plessy\", held that a State offering a legal education to whites but not to blacks violated the Equal Protection Clause.\n\nIn \"Shelley v. Kraemer\" (1948), the Court showed increased willingness to find racial discrimination illegal. The \"Shelley\" case concerned a privately made contract that prohibited \"people of the Negro or Mongolian race\" from living on a particular piece of land. Seeming to go against the spirit, if not the exact letter, of \"The Civil Rights Cases\", the Court found that, although a discriminatory private contract could not violate the Equal Protection Clause, the courts' \"enforcement\" of such a contract could; after all, the Supreme Court reasoned, courts were part of the state.\n\nThe companion cases \"Sweatt v. Painter\" and \"McLaurin v. Oklahoma State Regents\", both decided in 1950, paved the way for a series of school integration cases. In \"McLaurin\", the University of Oklahoma had admitted McLaurin, an African-American, but had restricted his activities there: he had to sit apart from the rest of the students in the classrooms and library, and could eat in the cafeteria only at a designated table. A unanimous Court, through Chief Justice Fred M. Vinson, said that Oklahoma had deprived McLaurin of the equal protection of the laws:\n\nThe present situation, Vinson said, was the former. In \"Sweatt\", the Court considered the constitutionality of Texas's state system of law schools, which educated blacks and whites at separate institutions. The Court (again through Chief Justice Vinson, and again with no dissenters) invalidated the school system—not because it separated students, but rather because the separate facilities were not \"equal\". They lacked \"substantial equality in the educational opportunities\" offered to their students.\n\nAll of these cases, as well as the upcoming \"Brown\" case, were litigated by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. It was Charles Hamilton Houston, a Harvard Law School graduate and law professor at Howard University, who in the 1930s first began to challenge racial discrimination in the federal courts. Thurgood Marshall, a former student of Houston's and the future Solicitor General and Associate Justice of the Supreme Court, joined him. Both men were extraordinarily skilled appellate advocates, but part of their shrewdness lay in their careful choice of \"which\" cases to litigate, selecting the best legal proving grounds for their cause.\n\nIn 1954 the contextualization of the equal protection clause would change forever. The Supreme Court itself recognized the gravity of the Brown v Board decision acknowledging that a split decision would be a threat to the role of the Supreme Court and even to the country. When Earl Warren became Chief Justice in 1953, \"Brown\" had already come before the Court. While Vinson was still Chief Justice, there had been a preliminary vote on the case at a conference of all nine justices. At that time, the Court had split, with a majority of the justices voting that school segregation did not violate the Equal Protection Clause. Warren, however, through persuasion and good-natured cajoling—he had been an extremely successful Republican politician before joining the Court—was able to convince all eight associate justices to join his opinion declaring school segregation unconstitutional. In that opinion, Warren wrote:\n\nWarren discouraged other justices, such as Robert H. Jackson, from publishing any concurring opinion; Jackson's draft, which emerged much later (in 1988), included this statement: \"Constitutions are easier amended than social customs, and even the North never fully conformed its racial practices to its professions\". The Court set the case for re-argument on the question of how to implement the decision. In \"Brown II\", decided in 1954, it was concluded that since the problems identified in the previous opinion were local, the solutions needed to be so as well. Thus the court devolved authority to local school boards and to the trial courts that had originally heard the cases. (\"Brown\" was actually a consolidation of four different cases from four different states.) The trial courts and localities were told to desegregate with \"all deliberate speed\".\n\nPartly because of that enigmatic phrase, but mostly because of self-declared \"massive resistance\" in the South to the desegregation decision, integration did not begin in any significant way until the mid-1960s and then only to a small degree. In fact, much of the integration in the 1960s happened in response not to \"Brown\" but to the Civil Rights Act of 1964. The Supreme Court intervened a handful of times in the late 1950s and early 1960s, but its next major desegregation decision was not until \"Green v. School Board of New Kent County\" (1968), in which Justice William J. Brennan, writing for a unanimous Court, rejected a \"freedom-of-choice\" school plan as inadequate. This was a significant decision; freedom-of-choice plans had been very common responses to \"Brown\". Under these plans, parents could choose to send their children to either a formerly white or a formerly black school. Whites almost never opted to attend black-identified schools, however, and blacks rarely attended white-identified schools.\n\nIn response to \"Green\", many Southern districts replaced freedom-of-choice with geographically based schooling plans; because residential segregation was widespread, little integration was accomplished. In 1971, the Court in \"Swann v. Charlotte-Mecklenburg Board of Education\" approved busing as a remedy to segregation; three years later, though, in the case of \"Milliken v. Bradley\" (1974), it set aside a lower court order that had required the busing of students \"between\" districts, instead of merely \"within\" a district. \"Milliken\" basically ended the Supreme Court's major involvement in school desegregation; however, up through the 1990s many federal trial courts remained involved in school desegregation cases, many of which had begun in the 1950s and 1960s.\n\nThe curtailment of busing in \"Milliken v. Bradley\" is one of several reasons that have been cited to explain why equalized educational opportunity in the United States has fallen short of completion. In the view of various liberal scholars, the election of Richard Nixon in 1968 meant that the executive branch was no longer behind the Court's constitutional commitments. Also, the Court itself decided in \"San Antonio Independent School District v. Rodriguez\" (1973) that the Equal Protection Clause allows—but does not require—a state to provide equal educational funding to all students within the state. Moreover, the Court's decision in \"Pierce v. Society of Sisters\" (1925) allowed families to opt out of public schools, despite \"inequality in economic resources that made the option of private schools available to some and not to others\", as Martha Minow has put it.\n\nAmerican public school systems, especially in large metropolitan areas, to a large extent are still \"de facto\" segregated. Whether due to \"Brown\", or due to Congressional action, or due to societal change, the percentage of black students attending majority-black school districts decreased somewhat until the early 1980s, at which point that percentage began to increase. By the late 1990s, the percentage of black students in mostly minority school districts had returned to about what it was in the late 1960s. In \"Parents Involved in Community Schools v. Seattle School District No. 1\" (2007), the Court held that, if a school system became racially imbalanced due to social factors other than governmental racism, then the state is not as free to integrate schools as if the state had been at fault for the racial imbalance. This is especially evident in the charter school system where parents of students can pick which schools their children attend based on the amenities provided by that school and the needs of the child. It seems that race is a factor in the choice of charter school.\n\nBy its terms, the clause restrains only state governments. However, the Fifth Amendment's due process guarantee, beginning with \"Bolling v. Sharpe\" (1954), has been interpreted as imposing some of the same restrictions on the federal government: \"Though the Fifth Amendment does not contain an equal protection clause, as does the Fourteenth Amendment which applies only to the States, the concepts of equal protection and due process are not mutually exclusive.\" In \"Lawrence v. Texas\" (2003) the Supreme Court added: \"Equality of treatment and the due process right to demand respect for conduct protected by the substantive guarantee of liberty are linked in important respects, and a decision on the latter point advances both interests\" \nSome scholars have argued that the Court's decision in \"Bolling\" should have been reached on other grounds. For example, Michael W. McConnell has written that Congress never \"required that the schools of the District of Columbia be segregated.\" According to that rationale, the segregation of schools in Washington D.C. was unauthorized and therefore illegal.\n\nDespite the undoubted importance of \"Brown\", much of modern equal protection jurisprudence originated in other cases, though not everyone agrees about \"which\" other cases. Some scholars assert that the opinion of Justice Harlan Stone in \"United States v. Carolene Products Co.\" (1938) contained a footnote that was a critical turning point for equal protection jurisprudence, but that assertion is disputed.\n\nWhatever its precise origins, the basic idea of the modern approach is that more judicial scrutiny is triggered by purported discrimination that involves \"fundamental rights\" (such as the right to procreation), and similarly more judicial scrutiny is also triggered if the purported victim of discrimination has been targeted because he or she belongs to a \"suspect classification\" (such as a single racial group). This modern doctrine was pioneered in \"Skinner v. Oklahoma\" (1942), which involved depriving certain criminals of the fundamental right to procreate:\n\nWhen the law lays an unequal hand on those who have committed intrinsically the same quality of offense and sterilizes one and not the other, it has made as invidious a discrimination as if it had selected a particular race or nationality for oppressive treatment.\n\nUntil 1976, the Supreme Court usually ended up dealing with discrimination by using one of two possible levels of scrutiny: what has come to be called \"strict scrutiny\" (when a suspect class or fundamental right is involved), or instead the more lenient \"rational basis review\". Strict scrutiny means that a challenged statute must be \"narrowly tailored\" to serve a \"compelling\" government interest, and must not have a \"less restrictive\" alternative. In contrast, rational basis scrutiny merely requires that a challenged statute be \"reasonably related\" to a \"legitimate\" government interest.\n\nHowever, in the 1976 case of \"Craig v. Boren\", the Court added another tier of scrutiny, called \"intermediate scrutiny\", regarding gender discrimination. The Court may have added other tiers too, such as \"enhanced rational basis\" scrutiny, and \"exceedingly persuasive basis\" scrutiny.\n\nAll of this is known as \"tiered\" scrutiny, and it has had many critics, including Justice Thurgood Marshall who argued for a \"spectrum of standards in reviewing discrimination\", instead of discrete tiers. Justice John Paul Stevens argued for only one level of scrutiny, given that \"there is only one Equal Protection Clause\". The whole tiered strategy developed by the Court is meant to reconcile the principle of equal protection with the reality that most laws necessarily discriminate in some way.\n\nChoosing the standard of scrutiny can determine the outcome of a case, and the strict scrutiny standard is often described as \"strict in theory and fatal in fact\". In order to select the correct level of scrutiny, Justice Antonin Scalia urged the Court to identify rights as \"fundamental\" or identify classes as \"suspect\" by analyzing what was understood when the Equal Protection Clause was adopted, instead of based upon more subjective factors.\n\nBecause inequalities can be caused either intentionally or unintentionally, the Supreme Court has decided that the Equal Protection Clause itself does not forbid governmental policies that unintentionally lead to racial disparities, though Congress may have some power under other clauses of the Constitution to address unintentional disparate impacts. This subject was addressed in the seminal case of \"Arlington Heights v. Metropolitan Housing Corp.\" (1977). In that case, the plaintiff, a housing developer, sued a city in the suburbs of Chicago that had refused to re-zone a plot of land on which the plaintiff intended to build low-income, racially integrated housing. On the face, there was no clear evidence of racially discriminatory intent on the part of Arlington Heights's planning commission. The result was racially disparate, however, since the refusal supposedly prevented mostly African-Americans and Hispanics from moving in. Justice Lewis Powell, writing for the Court, stated, \"Proof of racially discriminatory intent or purpose is required to show a violation of the Equal Protection Clause.\" Disparate impact merely has an evidentiary value; absent a \"stark\" pattern, \"impact is not determinative.\"\n\nThe result in \"Arlington Heights\" was similar to that in \"Washington v. Davis\" (1976), and has been defended on the basis that the Equal Protection Clause was not designed to guarantee equal outcomes, but rather equal opportunities; if a legislature wants to correct unintentional but racially disparate effects, it may be able to do so through further legislation. It is possible for a discriminating state to hide its true intention, and one possible solution is for disparate impact to be considered as stronger evidence of discriminatory intent. This debate, though, is currently academic, since the Supreme Court has not changed its basic approach as outlined in \"Arlington Heights\".\n\nFor an example of how this rule limits the Court's powers under the Equal Protection Clause, see \"McClesky v. Kemp\" (1987). In that case a black man was convicted of murdering a white police officer and sentenced to death in the state of Georgia. A study found that killers of whites were more likely to be sentenced to death than were killers of blacks. The Court found that the defense had failed to prove that such data demonstrated the requisite discriminatory intent by the Georgia legislature and executive branch.\n\nThe Supreme Court ruled in \"Nixon v. Herndon\" (1927) that the Fourteenth Amendment prohibited denial of the vote based on race. The first modern application of the Equal Protection Clause to voting law came in \"Baker v. Carr\" (1962), where the Court ruled that the districts that sent representatives to the Tennessee state legislature were so malapportioned (with some legislators representing ten times the number of residents as others) that they violated the Equal Protection Clause.\n\nIt may seem counterintuitive that the Equal Protection Clause should provide for equal voting rights; after all, it would seem to make the Fifteenth Amendment and the Nineteenth Amendment redundant. Indeed, it was on this argument, as well as on the legislative history of the Fourteenth Amendment, that Justice John M. Harlan (the grandson of the earlier Justice Harlan) relied in his dissent from \"Reynolds\". Harlan quoted the congressional debates of 1866 to show that the framers did not intend for the Equal Protection Clause to extend to voting rights, and in reference to the Fifteenth and Nineteenth Amendments, he said:\n\nHarlan also relied on the fact that Section Two of the Fourteenth Amendment \"expressly recognizes the States' power to deny 'or in any way' abridge the right of their inhabitants to vote for 'the members of the [state] Legislature.'\" Section Two of the Fourteenth Amendment provides a specific federal response to such actions by a state: reduction of a state's representation in Congress. However, the Supreme Court has instead responded that voting is a \"fundamental right\" on the same plane as marriage (\"Loving v. Virginia\"); for any discrimination in fundamental rights to be constitutional, the Court requires the legislation to pass strict scrutiny. Under this theory, equal protection jurisprudence has been applied to voting rights.\n\nA recent use of equal protection doctrine came in \"Bush v. Gore\" (2000). At issue was the controversial recount in Florida in the aftermath of the 2000 presidential election. There, the Supreme Court held that the different standards of counting ballots across Florida violated the equal protection clause. It was not this holding that proved especially controversial among commentators, and indeed, the proposition gained seven out of nine votes; Justices Souter and Breyer joined the majority of five—but only, it should be emphasized, for the finding that there was an Equal Protection violation. Much more controversial was the remedy that the Court chose, namely, the cessation of a statewide recount.\n\nOriginally, the Fourteenth Amendment did not forbid sex discrimination to the same extent as other forms of discrimination. On the one hand, Section Two of the amendment specifically discouraged states from interfering with the voting rights of \"males\", which made the amendment anathema to many women when it was proposed in 1866. On the other hand, as feminists like Victoria Woodhull pointed out, the word \"person\" in the Equal Protection Clause was apparently chosen deliberately, instead of a masculine term that could have easily been used instead.\n\nIn 1971, the U.S. Supreme Court decided \"Reed v. Reed,\" extending the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to protect women from sex discrimination, in situations where there is no rational basis for the discrimination. That level of scrutiny was boosted to an intermediate level in \"Craig v. Boren\" (1976).\n\nThe Court's decision in \"Romer v. Evans\" (1996) struck down a Colorado constitutional amendment aimed at denying homosexuals \"minority status, quota preferences, protected status or [a] claim of discrimination.\" The Court rejected as \"implausible\" the dissent's argument that the amendment would not deprive homosexuals of general protections provided to everyone else but rather would merely prevent \"special treatment of homosexuals.\" Much as in \"City of Cleburne\", the \"Romer\" decision seemed to employ a markedly higher level of scrutiny than the nominally applied rational-basis test.\n\nIn \"Lawrence v. Texas\" (2003), the Court struck down a Texas statute prohibiting homosexual sodomy on substantive due process grounds. In Justice Sandra Day O'Connor's opinion concurring in the judgment, however, she argued that by prohibiting only \"homosexual\" sodomy, and not \"heterosexual\" sodomy as well, Texas's statute did not meet rational-basis review under the Equal Protection Clause; her opinion prominently cited \"City of Cleburne\", and also relied in part on \"Romer\". Notably, O'Connor's opinion did not claim to apply a higher level of scrutiny than mere rational basis, and the Court has not extended suspect-class status to sexual orientation.\n\nWhile the courts have applied rational-basis scrutiny to classifications based on sexual orientation, it has been argued that discrimination based on sex should be interpreted to include discrimination based on sexual orientation, in which case intermediate scrutiny could apply to gay rights cases. Other scholars disagree, arguing that \"homophobia\" is distinct from sexism, in a sociological sense, and so treating it as such would be an unacceptable judicial shortcut.\n\nIn 2013, the Court struck down part of the federal Defense of Marriage Act, in \"United States v. Windsor\". No state statute was in question, and therefore the Equal Protection Clause did not apply. The Court did employ similar principles, however, in combination with federalism principles. The Court did not purport to use any level of scrutiny more demanding than rational basis review, according to law professor Erwin Chemerinsky. The four dissenting justices argued that the authors of the statute were rational.\n\nIn 2015, the Supreme Court held in a 5–4 decision that the fundamental right to marry is guaranteed to same-sex couples by both the Due Process Clause and the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution and required all states to issue marriage licenses to same-sex couples and to recognize same-sex marriages validly performed in other jurisdictions.\n\nAffirmative action is the consideration of race, gender, or other factors, to benefit an underrepresented group or to address past injustices done to that group. Individuals who belong to the group are preferred over those who do not belong to the group, for example in educational admissions, hiring, promotions, awarding of contracts, and the like. Such action may be used as a \"tie-breaker\" if all other factors are inconclusive, or may be achieved through quotas, which allot a certain number of benefits to each group.\n\nDuring Reconstruction, Congress enacted race-conscious programs primarily to assist newly freed slaves who had personally been denied many advantages earlier in their lives. Such legislation was enacted by many of the same people who framed the Equal Protection Clause, though that clause did not apply to such federal legislation, and instead only applied to state legislation. Likewise, the Equal Protection Clause does not apply to private universities and other private businesses, which are free to practice affirmative action unless prohibited by federal statute or state law.\n\nSeveral important affirmative action cases to reach the Supreme Court have concerned government contractors—for instance, \"Adarand Constructors v. Peña\" (1995) and \"City of Richmond v. J.A. Croson Co.\" (1989). But the most famous cases have dealt with affirmative action as practiced by public universities: \"Regents of the University of California v. Bakke\" (1978), and two companion cases decided by the Supreme Court in 2003, \"Grutter v. Bollinger\" and \"Gratz v. Bollinger\".\n\nIn \"Bakke\", the Court held that racial quotas are unconstitutional, but that educational institutions could legally use race as one of many factors to consider in their admissions process. In \"Grutter\" and \"Gratz\", the Court upheld both \"Bakke\" as a precedent and the admissions policy of the University of Michigan Law School. In dicta, however, Justice O'Connor, writing for the Court, said she expected that in 25 years, racial preferences would no longer be necessary. In \"Gratz\", the Court invalidated Michigan's undergraduate admissions policy, on the grounds that unlike the law school's policy, which treated race as one of many factors in an admissions process that looked to the individual applicant, the undergraduate policy used a point system that was excessively mechanistic.\n\nIn these affirmative action cases, the Supreme Court has employed, or has said it employed, strict scrutiny, since the affirmative action policies challenged by the plaintiffs categorized by race. The policy in \"Grutter\", and a Harvard College admissions policy praised by Justice Powell's opinion in \"Bakke\", passed muster because the Court deemed that they were narrowly tailored to achieve a compelling interest in diversity. On one side, critics have argued—including Justice Clarence Thomas in his dissent to \"Grutter\"—that the scrutiny the Court has applied in some cases is much less searching than true strict scrutiny, and that the Court has acted not as a principled legal institution but as a biased political one. On the other side, it is argued that the purpose of the Equal Protection Clause is to prevent the socio-political subordination of some groups by others, not to prevent classification; since this is so, non-invidious classifications, such as those used by affirmative action programs, should not be subjected to heightened scrutiny.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18935410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18935410", "title": "Exclusive right", "text": "Exclusive right\n\nIn Anglo-Saxon law, an exclusive right, or exclusivity, is a de facto, non-tangible prerogative existing in law (that is, the power or, in a wider sense, right) to perform an action or acquire a benefit and to permit or deny others the right to perform the same action or to acquire the same benefit. A \"prerogative\" is in effect an exclusive right. The term is restricted for use for official state or sovereign (i.e., constitutional) powers. Exclusive rights are a form of monopoly.\n\nExclusive rights can be established by law or by contractual obligation, but the scope of enforceability will depend upon the extent to which others are bound by the instrument establishing the exclusive right; thus in the case of contractual rights, only persons that are parties to a contract will be affected by the exclusivity.\n\nExclusive rights may be granted in property law, copyright law, patent law, in relation to public utilities, or, in some jurisdictions, in other \"sui generis\" legislation. Many scholars argue that such rights form the basis for the concepts of property and ownership.\n\nPrivately granted rights, created by contract, may occasionally appear very similar to exclusive rights, but are only enforceable against the grantee, and not the world at large.\n\nIn relation to property, an exclusive right will, for the most part, arise when something tangible is acquired; as a result, others are prevented from exercising control of that thing. For example, a person may prohibit others from entering and using their land, or from taking their personal possessions. However, an exclusive right is not necessarily absolute, as an easement may allow a certain level of public access to private land.\n\nMost governments recognize a bundle of exclusive rights in relation to works of authorship, inventions, and identifications of origin. These rights are sometimes spoken of under the umbrella term \"intellectual property.\"\n\nIn Anglo-Saxon property law, exclusive rights have often been the codification of pre-existing social norms with regard to land or chattels.\n\nIn continental Europe there is a view that copyrights, patents, and the like are the codification of some kind of moral right, natural right, or personalitlly right. However, such arguments can only be consistently justified through instrumentalism or consequentialism, as exemplified by the reasoning inferred in Article One of the United States Constitution that copyrights and patents exist solely \"To promote the Progress of Science and useful Arts.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "14356241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14356241", "title": "Five wisdoms", "text": "Five wisdoms\n\nThe Five Wisdoms are five kinds of wisdoms which appear when the mind is purified of the five disturbing emotions and the natural mind appears. All of those five wisdoms are represented by one of the five buddha-families.\n\n\"Pañca-jñāna\" is orthographically rendered into English as: Five Wisdoms, Five Awarenesses, Five Pristine Cognitions.\n\nThe Five Wisdoms are:\n\nThe Five Wisdoms \"emerge through a transformation (parāvṛtti) of the eight consciousnesses at the moment of enlightenment\".\n\nThe idea of the Five Wisdoms \"underwent a considerable development\" within Tibetan Buddhism where they are \"symbolized or embodied\" in the Five Dhyani Buddhas.\n\nAccording to Tenzin Wangyal, the Five Pure Lights become the Five Poisons if we remain deluded, or the Five Wisdoms and the Five Buddha Families if we recognize their purity.\n\nThe Five Wisdoms, and the accompanying Five Buddhas, are represented in Tibetan Buddhism by the \"symbolic bone ornaments\". The \"Hevajra Tantra\" associates the Symbolic Bone Ornaments directly with the Five Wisdoms:\nThe additional ornament spoken of in various texts related to Hevajra is ash from a cremation ground smeared on the body (Tib.: thal chen).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55632237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55632237", "title": "GreenMantra Technologies", "text": "GreenMantra Technologies\n\nGreenMantra Technologies is a Canadian clean technology company based in Brantford, Ontario, that converts recycled waste plastics into polymers, additives, and other chemicals for industrial use.\n\nGreenMantra Technologies has developed a thermo-catalytic system and patented manufacturing process that allows the conversion of waste plastics such as grocery bags, film and foam, into high-value waxes, polymers and other specialty chemicals. The company’s end products, which are sold under the Ceranovus brand name, are polyethylene and polypropylene additives that can be custom-formulated for specific physical and performance characteristics. These products have applications in coatings, inks, plastics processing, adhesives, rubber compounding and asphalt modification for roofing and paving. GreenMantra's original technologies were developed by Dr. Anil Kumar and Pushkar Kumar. \n\nIn 2018, the company will be launching a line of styrenic polymers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52389209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52389209", "title": "Il Verri", "text": "Il Verri\n\nIl Verri is an Italian quarterly literary magazine, which has been published since 1956. The magazine is based in Milan, Italy.\n\n\"Il Verri\" was started by Luciano Anceschi in Milan in 1956. The magazine is published on a quarterly basis. Its headquarters is in Milan. However, in 1973 it temporarily moved to Bologna.\n\nIn the early 1960s \"Il Verri\" began to cover the writings of neo avant garde authors, including Umberto Eco, Edoardo Sanguineti, Antonio Porta and Nanni Balestrini. They were part of a literary circle called Gruppo 63. The magazine played a significant role for Umberto Eco in shaping his theories. Luciano Erba and Alfredo Giuliani were also among the contributors.\n\nFrom its start in 1956 \"Il Verri\" has been instrumental in making some approaches familiar in Italy such as phenomenology, structuralism and semiology. The magazine also covers poems and in 1961 Luciano Anceschi collected them in a book.\n\nList of magazines in Italy\n\n"}
{"id": "41273889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41273889", "title": "Infinite loop space machine", "text": "Infinite loop space machine\n\nIn topology, a branch of mathematics, given a topological monoid \"X\" up to homotopy (in a nice way), an infinite loop space machine produces a group completion of \"X\" together with infinite loop space structure. For example, one can take \"X\" to be the classifying space of a symmetric monoidal category \"S\"; that is, formula_1. Then the machine produces the group completion formula_2. The space formula_3 may be described by the K-theory spectrum of \"S\".\n\n"}
{"id": "17191922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17191922", "title": "International Tribunal on Crimes against Women", "text": "International Tribunal on Crimes against Women\n\nThe International Tribunal on Crimes against Women was a people's tribunal which took place on March 4–8, 1976 in Brussels. The event was created with the intention to \"make public the full range of crimes, both violently brutal and subtly discriminatory, committed against women of all cultures.\"\n\nDiana E. H. Russell and Nicole Van Den Ven, the main organizers of the tribunal, were inspired by Bertrand Russell's International War Crimes Tribunal, a people's tribunal on crimes committed in the Vietnam War.\n\nThe ITCW was attended by over 2000 women from 40 countries, and specific topics include medical and economic crimes, rape, political prisoners, crimes against lesbians, spousal abuse, prostitution, pornography and femicide.\n\nNumerous testimonies were provided in writing by women who were unable to attend the tribunal.\n\nAttendee Frances Doughty noted that the Tribunal confirmed for her that \"the oppression of women in general and of lesbians in particular is truly worldwide\"\n\nLesbian poet Pat Parker was among the contributors of testimony, speaking about her eldest sister, who was murdered by her husband.\n\nA Take Back the Night march took place as a candlelight procession in association with the Tribunal.\n\nOrganizers Russell and Van Den Ven published a book based on the Tribunal, \"Crimes Against Women: Proceedings of the International Tribunal\" later in 1976.\n\n"}
{"id": "13933421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13933421", "title": "Ionic conductivity (solid state)", "text": "Ionic conductivity (solid state)\n\nIonic conduction (denoted by -lambda) is the movement of an ion from one site to another through defects in the crystal lattice of a solid or aqueous solution.\n\nIonic conduction is one mechanism of current. In solids, ions typically occupy fixed positions in the crystal lattice and do not move. However, ionic conduction can occur, especially as the temperature increases \n\nIonic conduction in solids has been a subject of interest since the beginning of the 19th century. Michael Faraday established in 1839 that the laws of electrolysis are also obeyed in ionic solids like lead(II) fluoride () and silver sulfide ().\n\nIn 1921, Tubandt et al. found that solid silver iodide () had extraordinary high ionic conductivity. At temperatures above 147 °C, AgI changes into a phase that has an ionic conductivity of ~ 1 –1 cm, similar to that of its liquid phase. This high temperature phase of AgI was the first superionic conductor ever discovered. The highly conductive phase of AgI is now known as alpha-AgI. It was shown that a sublattice cationic disorder takes place in alpha-AgI. The liquid-like state of Ag ions, as proposed by Strock (1934, 1936) and later reinforced by others (Geller, 1977; Funke, 1976), consists of a cubic unit cell of iodide ions (I), in which a total of 42 sites (6 octahedral, 12 tetragonal and 24 trigonal bipyramidal) are available for 2 Ag ions, as shown in the Figure 1. O' Keeffe and Hyde (1976) have argued that this phase transition in AgI is dramatic and powerful, nothing less than the melting and have also shown that the entropy change at the super-ionic transition is comparable to its value at the melting. Thus, in the -phase, I ions form a body-centered cubic lattice and the Ag ions are distributed in such a way that 42 crystallographic equivalent interstices are available for the two Ag ions.\n\nAlpha phase crystals of various materials like , , , etc. were soon discovered (Tubandt, 1932). By the early 1930s, it was demonstrated that these fast ionically conducting solids could be treated entirely the same as aqueous electrolytes from the viewpoint of chemical reactions and thermodynamics, hence these materials were labeled \"solid electrolytes\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3735581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3735581", "title": "Japanese river otter", "text": "Japanese river otter\n\nThe is an extinct variety of otter formerly widespread in Japan. Dating back to the 1880s, it was even seen in Tokyo. The population suddenly shrank in the 1930s, and the mammal nearly vanished. Since then, it has only been spotted several times, in 1964 in the Seto Inland Sea, and in the Uwa Sea in 1972 and 1973. The last official sighting was in the southern part of Kōchi Prefecture in 1979, when it was photographed in the mouth of the Shinjo River in Susaki. It was subsequently classified as a \"Critically Endangered\" species on the Japanese Red List. On August 28, 2012, the Japanese river otter was officially declared extinct by the Ministry of the Environment. It is the official animal symbol of Ehime Prefecture. In February 2017, a wild otter was caught on camera on Tsushima Island, Nagasaki Prefecture. However, it is not known whether the observed otter was a Japanese river otter.\n\nSeveral genetic studies have suggested that the Japanese river otter should be treated as a distinct species \"Lutra nippon\" rather than a subspecies of \"Lutra lutra\". However, this reclassification is not yet generally accepted in the absence of further verification.\n\nFully grown, a Japanese otter was between long, with a tail measuring . It had a thick, lush coat of dark brown fur with short webbed feet. In addition the river otter has two types/sets of fur. Data has shown that the river otter would shed their under fur fully from May to August. After the shedding of the under fur, the otter shed their guard hair from August to November. This allowed them to adjust to the seasons changing. The otter had a lifespan of up to 25 years.\n\nA nocturnal creature, an otter only left its den after dark to forage for food. Claiming a territory about ten miles in diameter, it marked the area with its droppings about one to three miles apart and sets up three or four nests under rocks or inside bushes. The otters were always on the move, visiting each den only once every three to four days. They were considered an adult after only one year. They would then venture on their own, but continue in solitude unless ready to mate.\n\nIn general, the Japanese River Otter was ready to reproduce when they were two to three years old. In addition, the males sought out the females in the reproduction process. Besides during reproduction and with the exception of young males staying with their mother for a range of two to three years until they were mature, female otters and male otters didn't generally live together. When a male otter calls out to a female otter, she must give him permission for the mating. If she does not, the male would move onto the next female otter. For the male to know that the female is interested in mating, the female will roll around with the male, which releases hormones. The Japanese River Otter could have anywhere from one to six offspring per litter. Once born, the baby otters are completely blind for a month, leaving them utterly helpless. The female otter makes for a great mother; nursing her young for up to eight hours a day, as well as teaching them valuable lessons and protecting them. After the pups are around the age of four months, the mother otter will introduce her youth to solid food and start to teach them how to hunt.\n\nLike most otters, the Japanese river otter was not an especially picky eater. While it primarily fed on fish, crab, and shrimp; it also ate eels, beetles, watermelons, and sweet potatoes. Many of these Japanese otters eat about 15% to 25% of their own body weight. Many otters spend around six hours to find food because of their difficult living space and their competition for food. The Japanese otter was known as one of the top carnivores in the aquatic food chain.\n\nIn the past, there were thousands of river otters in Japan. Starting in the Meiji period, the government of Japan adopted a policy of increasing wealth and military prowess. Animal pelts thus became very valuable since they could be exported for money. As a result, Japanese river otters started to be hunted throughout the country. Their numbers soon dwindled. Populations made a slight comeback after the creation of hunting regulations. Even so, pollution and human development then harmed their environment and resources to build their habitats. This pollution terminated their food sources in the rivers, causing them to hunt in more dangerous settings. These causes grew rapidly, resulting in the extinction of the Japanese river otter in the late 20th century.\n\nThroughout the 1990s, there were several attempts to locate a surviving Japanese river otter.\n\nIn December 1991, the Environmental Agency of Japan in partnership with the Kochi prefectural government assembled a research team of experts and began their search. In March 1992, the research group found hair and excrement in Kochi Prefecture and believed to have come from an otter. Also found were three footprints, and ten additional excrement samples. After an analysis of a cross-section of the hair, the researchers determined that it came from an otter. An official from the agency's wildlife protection section stated that the hair was \"scientifically solid evidence that confirms the existence of the Japanese Otter.\"\n\nIn 1994, zoological experts visited the area where the excrement was found. They discovered remains of the animal's urine, which the animal is believed to leave during its courtship. The prefectural government of Kochi set up an infrared camera for six months from October 1994 to April 1995 in an effort to capture it on film, but all that was recorded were animals such as raccoon dogs.\n\nBetween March 4 and 9, 1996, a group of zoo officials, municipal government officials and animals lovers from across the country searched for the river otter in the areas where finds have been made in the past. Such areas included coastal areas in Susaki, areas along the Niyodo River running through Sakawacho and Inocho, and coastal areas along Shimanto River. No evidence of the animal's existence was found.\n\nAmong these, the presumed sighting reported in Kochi by a local artist with a detailed sketch was regarded \"highly trustable\" by Yoshihiko Machida, an emeritus professor at the Kōchi University in 2009. Dr. Machida also pointed that the previous studies by the prefecture had been restricted only among coastal areas and thus not filling the definition of extinct species by IUCN. Regarding this, a survey was conducted by Ehime Prefecture in 2014, noting several recent sightings.\n\nIn February 2017, a wild otter was filmed alive on Tsushima Island in Nagasaki Prefecture, Japan. However, it is not known whether the observed otter was a Japanese river otter.\n\nResearch done in the early 1990s by the Department of Biology of Kochi University in Japan revealed some interesting facts about the genes of the Japanese River Otter. For many years, it was thought that the Japanese river otter was a subspecies of the Eurasian otter \"Lutra lutra\". However, the studies done in Kochi University revealed something different. By comparing the Mitochondrial Cytochrome b Gene of a mummified Japanese river otter corpse with Eurasian otters from Latvia and China, it was proven that the Japanese river otter was actually different, and was therefore not a subspecies. The name for the Japanese river otter was then changed from \"L. l. whiteleyi\" to \"Lutra nippon\".\n\nThe Japanese river otter was used as medicine to help cure tuberculosis. Typically a dosage that would last about forty days would cost roughly three hundred US dollars.\nBeginning in the early 20th century, the otter pelts were used for military purposes as well. In 1929, the government established the \"Hunters Association\" which called upon people to hunt and skin these otters, which was one of the main causes of their eventual extinction.\n\nThe Japanese river otter was named the official animal symbol of Japan's Ehime Prefecture, a region of Japan in northwestern Shikoku.\n"}
{"id": "23681283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23681283", "title": "Kammapatha", "text": "Kammapatha\n\nKammapatha, in Buddhism, refers to the ten wholesome and unwholesome courses of action (karma).\n\nAmong the ten in the two sets, three are bodily, four are verbal, and three are mental. The ten courses of unwholesome kamma may be listed as follows, divided by way of their doors of expression: \n\n\nThe ten courses of wholesome kamma are the opposites of these: abstaining from the first seven courses of unwholesome kamma, being free from covetousness and ill will, and holding right view. Though the seven cases of abstinence are exercised entirely by the mind and do not necessarily entail overt action, they are still designated wholesome bodily and verbal action because they center on the control of the faculties of body and speech. \n\n"}
{"id": "31240211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31240211", "title": "Language speaks", "text": "Language speaks\n\n\"Language speaks\" (in the original German \"Die Sprache spricht\"), is a famous saying by Martin Heidegger. Heidegger first formulated it in his 1950 lecture \"Language\" (\"Die Sprache\"), and frequently repeated it in later works.\n\nAdorno expressed a related idea when he said that language \"acquires a voice\" and \"speaks itself.\"\n\nThe saying was first formulated by Heidegger in the lecture \"Language\" (\"Die Sprache\") in memory of Max Kommerell, first delivered on October 7, 1950 at the Bühlerhöhe building. The lecture was translated in English by Albert Hofstadter in the 1971 Heidegger collection \"Poetry, Language, Thought\".\n\nQuoting a Hamann's 1784 letter to Herder, Heidegger talks of language as an \"abyss.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55588949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55588949", "title": "Latvian Operation of the NKVD", "text": "Latvian Operation of the NKVD\n\nThe so-called Latvian Operation () of the People's Commissariat for Internal Affairs (NKVD) was a mass arrest and execution of persons of Latvian origin in the Soviet Union during the period of Great Purge (1937–1938).\n\nMore than 500 Latvian peasant colonies originated from the 19th century after the abolition of serfdom near St. Petersburg, Novgorod and in Siberia. As the front line of Courland was approaching in the First World War, extensive forced evacuations were carried out, so that the number of Latvians living in Russia doubled to up to 500,000 people. Many of the Latvian Riflemen were the early supporters of the Bolsheviks in 1917. With the end of the World War and the Russian Civil War, many of the refugees were able to return to an independent Latvia. The Riga peace treaty explicitly foresaw the departure of former Latvian riflemen and refugees. According to the 1926 census, about 150,000 Latvians lived in the Soviet Union. They cultivated a lively cultural life with the schools, newspapers and theaters. Since the 1905 Revolution, there has been a strong Latvian faction in the Russian Social Democratic Labour Party. Persons of Latvian descent temporarily held the high positions in the State apparatus of Soviet Russia. Of 70 Commissioners of the Cheka were in the year 1918 38 were of Latvian origin. However, with the increasing Russification of the State organs, members of non-Russian minorities were largely ousted from the management positions. In the party leadership of Josef Stalin, Latvia was regarded as a so-called \"enemy nation\" and Latvians were generally regarded as counter-revolutionary and suspicious. The resistance of peasant colonists to the forced collectivization at the end of the 1920s seemed to confirm to this image. Through targeted deportations in the Gulag, these colonies were eliminated by 1933. From this time, a rigorous \"purge\" of the party and state apparatus of non-Russians took place. The Latvian Communist Party was dissolved in 1936, its members persecuted and murdered as \"nationalists\" and \"people's enemies\". One aspect of Stalin's Great Purge was state-directed xenophobia. In July 1937 the closure of the publishing house and cultural association \"Prometejs\" and the arrest of its employees took place. The Red Latvian Riflemen were removed from the history and school books and their veteran associations were dissolved.\n\nOn November 23, 1937, Nikolai Yezhov ordered the NKVD services to pool all the information gathered about Latvians in cultural and political life, the military and other institutions to be able to arrest them \"just as during the Polish operation\". On 30 November, the Order No. 49990 was the mass arrest of ethnic Latvians throughout the Soviet Union. The lawsuits were streamlined by forms with pre-printed accusations and confessions, which then condemned judicial victims to criminal work or shooting. Through torture, the NKVD constructed the existence of a Latvian espionage circle, which allegedly belonged to all Latvian officials from the Politburo to the school directors. The last Latvian Chekists were now also executed by their colleagues. Due to the large number of detainees, despite the so-called album proceedings, the courts were unable to impose convictions quickly enough. Therefore, the finish date of the action was extended until August 1938. In October 1938, special Troikas were then set up to work out the backlog of unedited cases. When the successor of Yezhov, Lavrenty Beria issued the command No. 00762 on November 26, 1938, the Latvian operation ended with the conclusion of the Great Purge. The liquidation of the Latvian party officials gave the Soviet authorities certain difficulties in establishing a party and administrative apparatus in the occupation of Latvia 1940.\n\nIn particular, 22,369 convictions of Latvians were known, of which 16,573 or 74% were shot. Various estimates are based on 73,000 Latvian casualties. Exact victim numbers are also not available because many other people were murdered under the pretext of \"Latvians\". Women who were sent to the gulag because of a marriage with the ethnic enemies and their children who came to orphanages were not included in the statistics. The operation led to the abandonment of their own culture among the remaining Latvians, so descendants of Latvian colonists barely speak Latvian today. A rehabilitation of the victims took place under Khrushchev. Information about the specific death and date could only be obtained after the end of the communist rule after 1990. The perpetrators and performers of the action, often known by name, have never been held accountable. Larger groups of victims were shot at the practice places Butovo and Kommunarka near Moscow, Levaschovo near Leningrad or Kurapaty near Minsk. However, the tortures and murders were carried out throughout the territory of the State.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34074829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34074829", "title": "Lexical entrainment", "text": "Lexical entrainment\n\nLexical entrainment is the phenomenon in conversational linguistics of the process of the subject adopting the reference terms of their interlocutor. In practice, it acts as a mechanism of the cooperative principle in which both parties to the conversation employ lexical entrainment as a progressive system to develop \"conceptual pacts\" (a working temporary conversational terminology) to ensure maximum clarity of reference in the communication between the parties; this process is necessary to overcome the ambiguity inherent in the multitude of synonyms that exist in language. \n\nLexical entrainment arises by two cooperative mechanisms: \n\nOnce lexical entrainment has come to determine the phrasing for a referent, both parties will use that terminology for the referent for the duration, even if it proceeds to violate the Gricean maxim of quantity. For example, if one wants to refer to a brown loafer out of a set of shoes that consist of: the loafer, a sneaker, and a high-heeled shoe, they will not use \"the shoe\" to describe the object as this phrasing does not unambiguously describe one item in the set under consideration. They will also not call the object \"the brown loafer\" which would violate Grice's maxim of quantity. The speaker will settle on using the term \"the loafer\" as it is just informative enough without giving too much information. \n\nAnother important factor is lexical availability; the ease of conceptualizing a referent in a certain way and then retrieving and producing a label for it. For many objects the most available labels are basic nouns; for example, the word \"dog\". Instead of saying \"animal\" or \"husky\" for the referent, most subjects will default to \"dog\".\nIf in a set of objects one is to refer to either a husky, a table, and a poster, people are still most likely to use the word \"dog.\" This is technically a violation of Grice's maxim of quantity, as using the term \"animal\" is ideal.\n\nLexical entrainment has applications in natural language processing in computers as well as human–human interaction. Currently, the adaptability of computers to modify their referencing to the terms of their human interlocutor is limited, so the entrainment adaptation falls to the human operator; this phenomenon is readily demonstrated in Brennan's 1996 experiment.\n"}
{"id": "3485111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3485111", "title": "Life Is a Dream", "text": "Life Is a Dream\n\nLife Is a Dream ( ) is a Spanish-language play by Pedro Calderón de la Barca. First published in 1635 (or possibly in early 1636) during the Spanish Baroque period (NADV1), it is a philosophical allegory regarding the human situation and the mystery of life. The play has been described as \"the supreme example of Spanish Golden Age drama\". The story focuses on the fictional Segismundo, Prince of Poland, who has been imprisoned in a tower by his father, King Basilio, following a dire prophecy that the prince would bring disaster to the country and death to the King. Basilio briefly frees Segismundo, but when the prince goes on a rampage, the king imprisons him again, persuading him that it was all a dream.\n\nThe play's central themes are the conflict between free will and fate, as well as restoring one's honor (NADV1). It remains one of Calderón's best-known and most studied works. Other themes include dreams vs. reality and the conflict between father and son. The play has been adapted for other stage works, in film and as a novel.\n\nCatholic Spain was the most powerful European nation by the 16th century. The Spanish Armada was defeated by England in 1588, however, while Spain was trying to defend the northern coast of Africa from the expansion of the Turkish Ottoman Empire, and the gold and silver that Spain took from its possessions in the New World were not adequate to sustain its subsequent decades of heavy military expenses. Spain's power was rapidly waning by the time Calderón wrote \"Life Is a Dream\".\n\nThe age of Calderón was also marked by deep religious conviction in Spain. The Catholic church had fostered Spanish pride and identity, to the extent that \"speaking Christian\" became, and remains, synonymous with speaking Spanish.\n\nAnother current that permeated Spanish thinking was the radical departure from the medieval ideal that royal power resided in God's will, as noted in Machiavelli's \"The Prince\" (1532). Francisco Suarez’s treatise \"On the Defense of Faith\" (\"De defensio fidei\", 1613) stated that political power resided in the people and rejected the divine rights of kings, and Juan Mariana's \"On Kings and Kingship\" (1599) went even further by stating that the people had the right to murder despotic kings.\n\nAmidst these developments during the 16th and 17th centuries, Spain experienced a cultural blossoming referred to as the Spanish Golden Age. The Spanish Golden Age was brought about by the colonization of Americas, as they took advantage of the newfound resources. It saw the birth of notable works of art: \"Don Quixote\", by Miguel de Cervantes (1605), played with the vague line between reality and perception. Lope de Vega, in his play \"Fuente Ovejuna\" (1619), talks about a village that rebels against authority. \n\nRosaura walks through the mountains of Poland, dressed as a man. She finds Clarín, a jester, who tries to make her forget how miserably Poland receives visitors. They arrive at a tower, where they find Segismundo imprisoned, bound in chains. He tells them that his only crime was being born. Clotaldo, Segismundo's old warden and tutor, arrives and orders his guards to disarm and kill the intruders, but he recognizes Rosaura's sword as his own that he had left behind in Muskovy (for a favor that he owed) years ago for his child to bear. Suspecting that Rosaura is his child (he thinks she is male), he takes Rosaura and Clarín with him to court. Fife also appears in this play, who is Rosaura's friend.\nAt the palace, Astolfo, Duke of Muscovy, discusses with his cousin, Princess Estrella (Segismundo's cousin), that as they are the nephew and niece of King Basilio of Poland, they would be his successors if they married each other. Estrella is troubled by the locket that Astolfo wears, with another woman's portrait. Basilio reveals to them that he imprisoned his infant son, Segismundo, due to a prophecy by an oracle that the prince would bring disgrace to Poland and would kill his father, but he wants to grant his son a chance to prove the oracle wrong. If he finds him evil and unworthy, he will send him back to his cell, making way for Astolfo and Estrella to become the new king and queen. Clotaldo enters with Rosaura, telling Basilio that the intruders know about Segismundo. He begs for the king's pardon, as he knows he should have killed them. The king says he should not worry, for his secret has already been revealed. Rosaura tells Clotaldo that she wants revenge against Astolfo, but she won't say why. Clotaldo is reluctant to reveal that he thinks he is Rosaura's father.\n\nClotaldo gives Segismundo a sedative that \"robs one in his sleep of his sense and faculties\" (109), which puts him in a sleep similar to death. In the Royal Palace of the capital city of Warsaw, Clotaldo has learned that Rosaura is a woman; Clarín explains that Rosaura is Princess Estrella's maid but has been going by the name of Astrea. When Segismundo is awakened and arrives at court, Clotaldo tells him that he is the prince of Poland and heir to the throne. He resents Clotaldo for keeping this secret from him for all those years. He finds Duke Astolfo irritating and is dazzled by Estrella's beauty. When a servant warns him about the princess's betrothal to Astolfo, Segismundo is enraged by the news and throws the servant from the balcony.\n\nThe king demands an explanation from his son. He tries to reason with him, but Segismundo announces he will fight everyone, for his rights were denied him for a long time. Basilio warns him that he must behave, or he might find out he's dreaming. Segismundo interrupts a conversation between Rosaura and Clarín. Rosaura wants to leave, but Segismundo tries to seduce her. Clotaldo steps up to defend his child, but Segismundo pulls out a dagger threatening to kill him. As Clotaldo begs for his life, Astolfo challenges Segismundo to a duel. Before they proceed, the king sedates the prince again and sends him back to his cell.\n\nAfter recriminating Astolfo for wearing another woman's portrait around his neck, Estrella commands Rosaura (still going by Astrea) to fetch this locket for her. When she approaches Astolfo for the locket, he says he recognized her as Rosaura and refuses to give her the locket, because the portrait inside is hers. Estrella walks in and demands to see it immediately, but, afraid of being discovered, Rosaura says the locket in Astolfo's hand is actually her own, and that he has hidden the one she was sent to fetch. Estrella leaves furious. Meanwhile, Clotaldo sends Clarín to prison, believing that Clarín knows his secret.\n\nSegismundo mutters in his sleep about murder and revenge. When the prince wakes up, he tells Clotaldo about his \"dream\". Clotaldo tells him that even in dreams, people must act with kindness and justice. When he leaves, Segismundo is left reflecting on dreams and life.\n\nThe people find out that they have a prince and many rebel, breaking him out of his prison tower, although at first they comically mistake Clarin for the prince. Segismundo finds Clotaldo, who is afraid of his reaction. Segismundo forgives him, asking to join his cause, but Clotaldo refuses, swearing allegiance to the king. Back in the palace, everyone prepares for battle, and Clotaldo speaks with Rosaura. She asks him to take Astolfo's life, as he had taken her honor before leaving her. Clotaldo refuses, reminding her that Duke Astolfo is now the heir to the throne. When Rosaura asks what will be of her honor, Clotaldo suggests that she spend her days in a nunnery. Disheartened, Rosaura runs away.\n\nAs war nears, Segismundo sees Rosaura, who tells him that she was the youth who found him in his prison and also the woman who he tried to seduce in court. She tells him that she was born in Muscovy of a noble woman who was disgraced and abandoned. She had the same fate, falling in love with Astolfo and giving him her honor before he abandoned her to marry Estrella. She followed him to Poland for revenge, finding that Clotaldo is her father, but he is unwilling to fight for her honor. Rosaura compares herself to female warriors Athena and Diana. She wants to join Segismundo's battle and to kill Astolfo or to die fighting. Segismundo agrees. While soldiers cheer for Segismundo, Rosaura and Clarín are reunited, and the king's soldiers approach.\n\nSegismundo's army is winning the battle. Basilio, Clotaldo and Astolfo are preparing to escape when Clarín is killed in front of them. Segismundo arrives and Basilio faces his son, waiting for his death, but Segismundo spares his life. In light of the Prince's generous attitude, the King proclaims Segismundo heir to his throne. As King, Segismundo decides that Astolfo must keep his promise to marry Rosaura to preserve her honor. At first Astolfo is hesitant because she is not of noble birth, but when Clotaldo reveals that she is his daughter, Astolfo consents. Segismundo then claims Estrella in marriage himself. Segismundo resolves to live by the motto that \"God is God\", acknowledging that, whether asleep or awake, one must strive for goodness.\n\nThe concept of life as a dream is an ancient one found in Hinduism and Greek philosophy (notably Heraclitus and the famous Platonic Allegory of the Cave), and is directly related to Descartes' dream argument. It has been explored by writers from Lope de Vega to Shakespeare. Key elements from the play may be derived from the Christian legend of Barlaam and Josaphat, which Lope de Vega had brought to the stage. This legend is, itself, a derivation of the story of the early years of Siddharta Gautama, which serves as the basis for the film \"Little Buddha\" that illustrates the Hindu-Buddhist concept of reality as illusion. \n\nOne of the major conflicts of the play is the opposition between king and prince, which parallels with the struggle of Uranus vs. Saturn or Saturn vs. Jupiter in classical mythology. This struggle is a typical representation of the opposition in baroque comedy between the values represented by a fatherly figure and those embodied by the son. An opposition which, in this case, may have biographical elements.\n\nThe theme of honor is major to the character Rosaura. She feels she has been stripped of her honor, and her aim is to reclaim it. She feels that both her and her mother were subjected to the same fate. She pleads to Clotaldo about earning her honor back, which he denies and sends her to a nunnery.\n\nMotifs and themes derived from a number of traditions found in this drama include the labyrinth, the monster, free will vs. predestination, the four elements, original sin, pride and disillusionment.\n\nThe Rosaura subplot has been subjected to much criticism in the past as not belonging to the work. Menéndez y Pelayo saw it as a strange and exotic plot, like a parasitical vine. Rosaura has also been dismissed as the simple stock character of the jilted woman. With the British School of Calderonistas, this attitude changed. A. E. Sloman explained how the main and secondary actions are linked. Others like E. M. Wilson and William M. Whitby consider Rosaura to be central to the work since she parallels Segismundo's actions and also serves as Segismundo's guide, leading him to a final conversion. For some Rosaura must be studied as part of a Platonic ascent on the part of the Prince. Others compare her first appearance, falling from a horse/hippogriff to the plot of Ariosto's \"Orlando furioso\" where Astolfo (the name of the character who deceives Rosaura in our play), also rides the hippogriff and witnesses a prophecy of the return of the mythical Golden Age. For Frederick de Armas, Rosaura hides a mythological mystery already utilized by Ariosto. When she goes to Court, she takes on the name of Astraea, the goddess of chastity and justice. Astraea was the last of the immortals to leave earth with the decline of the ages. Her return signals the return of a Golden Age. Many writers of the Renaissance and early modern periods used the figure of Astraea to praise the rulers of their times. It is possible that Rosaura (an anagram of \"auroras\", \"dawns\") could represent the return of a Golden Age during the reign of Segismundo, a figure that represents King Philip IV of Spain.\n\nThere have been many different interpretations of the play’s ending, where Segismundo condemns the rebel soldier who freed him to life imprisonment in the tower. Some have suggested that this scene is ironic – that it raises questions about whether Segismundo will in fact be a just king. Others have pointed out that Calderón, who lived under the Spanish monarchy, could not have left the rebel soldier unpunished, because this would be an affront to royal authority.\n\nIt is worth considering that Segismundo’s transformation in the course of the play is not simply a moral awakening, but a realization of his social role as the heir to the throne, and this role requires him to act as kings act. For some, the act of punishing the rebel soldier makes him a Machiavellian prince. Others argue that, while this action may seem unjust, it is in keeping with his new social status as the king. Daniel L. Heiple traces a long tradition of works where treason seems to be rewarded, but the traitor or rebel is subsequently punished.\n\nIt may well be that, rather than intending his audience to see this action as purely right or wrong, Calderón purposefully made it ambiguous, creating an interesting tension in the play that adds to its depth.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34941263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34941263", "title": "Manasikara", "text": "Manasikara\n\nManasikara (Sanskrit and Pali, also \"manasikāra\"; Tibetan Wylie: \"yid la byed pa\" or \"yid byed\") is a Buddhist term that is translated as \"attention\" or \"ego-centric demanding\". It is defined as the process of the mind fixating upon an object. \"Manasikara\" is identified within the Buddhist Abhidharma teachings as follows:\n\nBhikkhu Bodhi states:\n\nThe Atthasālinī (I, Part IV, Chapter 1, 133) and the Visuddhimagga (XIV, 152) define manasikāra as follows:\n\nThe Abhidharma-samuccaya states: \n\nHerbert Guenther states:\n\nThe difference between \"cetanā\" and \"manasikara\" is that \"cetanā\" brings the mind towards the object in a general move, while \"manasikara\" makes the mind fixate upon this particular objective reference.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28080083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28080083", "title": "Manu (Theosophy)", "text": "Manu (Theosophy)\n\nIn the teachings of Theosophy, the Manu is one of the most important beings at the highest levels of Initiation of the Masters of the Ancient Wisdom, along with Sanat Kumara, Gautama Buddha, Maitreya, the Maha Chohan, and Djwal Khul. According to Theosophy, each root race has its own \"Manu\" which physically incarnates in an advanced body of an individual of the old root race and physically progenerates with a suitable female partner the first individuals of the new root race. The Theosophical concept of the Manu is derived from the concept in Hinduism that the Manu was the being who was the progenitor of the human race. \n\nWhen the \"Manu\" is spoken of in Theosophy, normally the \"being\" referred to, is the \"Vaivasvatu Manu.\"\n\nIn Theosophy, the \"Vaivasvatu Manu\" is regarded as the progenitor of the fifth root race, the Aryan root race. This progeneration is believed to have taken place 100,000 years ago in Atlantis. \n\nThe progenitor of the fourth root race, the Atlantean root race, is called the \"Chakshusha Manu\" and is in appearance an individual of the Mongolian race. \n\nAccording to C.W. Leadbeater, a colony will be established in Baja California by the Theosophical Society under the guidance of the Masters of the Ancient Wisdom in the 28th century for the intensive selective eugenic breeding of the sixth root race. The Master Morya will physically incarnate in order to be the Manu (\"progenitor\") of this new root race.\n\nIn the Ascended Master Teachings, a group of religions based on Theosophy, it is taught that the Vaivasvatu Manu has a \"twin flame\", i.e., a \"divine complement\" or \"celestial wife\". However, her name has not yet been revealed.\n\nIn the Ascended Master Teachings, the being C.W. Leadbeater called the \"Chakshusha Manu\" is referred to as \"Lord Himalaya\". According to Elizabeth Clare Prophet, \"Lord Himalaya\" was the teacher of Maitreya when Maitreya incarnated in as one of the first individuals of the new Atlantean root race that was then being progenerated by the \"Lord Himalaya\" from the Lemurian root race—Maitreya served in the Garden of Eden, which was actually a mystery school of the Great White Brotherhood run by the \"Lord Himalaya\" that was located in what is now San Diego, California, which was then part of Lemuria.\n\nThe scholar K. Paul Johnson maintains that the \"Masters\" that Madame Blavatsky wrote about and produced letters from were actually idealizations of people who were her mentors. \nHowever, although she mentioned the \"Manu\" in The Secret Doctrine, she never claimed to have met him.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1551981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1551981", "title": "Medical algorithm", "text": "Medical algorithm\n\nA medical algorithm is any computation, formula, statistical survey, nomogram, or look-up table, useful in healthcare. Medical algorithms include decision tree approaches to healthcare treatment (e.g., if symptoms A, B, and C are evident, then use treatment X) and also less clear-cut tools aimed at reducing or defining uncertainty.\n\nMedical algorithms are part of a broader field which is usually fit under the aims of medical informatics and medical decision-making. Medical decisions occur in several areas of medical activity including medical test selection, diagnosis, therapy and prognosis, and automatic control of medical equipment.\n\nIn relation to logic-based and artificial neural network-based clinical decision support systems, which are also computer applications used in the medical decision-making field, algorithms are less complex in architecture, data structure and user interface. Medical algorithms are not necessarily implemented using digital computers. In fact, many of them can be represented on paper, in the form of diagrams, nomographs, etc.\n\nA wealth of medical information exists in the form of published medical algorithms. These algorithms range from simple calculations to complex outcome predictions. Most clinicians use only a small subset routinely.\n\nExamples of medical algorithms are:\n\nA common class of algorithms are embedded in guidelines on the choice of treatments produced by many national, state, financial and local healthcare organisations and provided as knowledge resources for day to day use and for induction of new physicians. A field which has gained particular attention is the choice of medications for psychiatric conditions. In the United Kingdom, guidelines or algorithms for this have been produced by most of the circa 500 primary care trusts, substantially all of the circa 100 secondary care psychiatric units and many of the circa 10 000 general practices. In the US, there is a national (federal) initiative to provide them for all states, and by 2005 six states were adapting the approach of the Texas Medication Algorithm Project or otherwise working on their production.\n\nA grammar—the Arden syntax—exists for describing algorithms in terms of medical logic modules. An approach such as this should allow exchange of MLMs between doctors and establishments, and enrichment of the common stock of tools.\n\nThe intended purpose of medical algorithms is to improve and standardize decisions made in the delivery of medical care. Medical algorithms assist in standardizing selection and application of treatment regimens, with algorithm automation intended to reduce potential introduction of errors. Some attempt to predict the outcome, for example critical care scoring systems.\n\nComputerized health diagnostics algorithms can provide timely clinical decision support, improve adherence to evidence-based guidelines, and be a resource for education and research. \n\nMedical algorithms based on best practice can assist everyone involved in delivery of standardized treatment via a wide range of clinical care providers. Many are presented as protocols and it is a key task in training to ensure people step outside the protocol when necessary. In our present state of knowledge, generating hints and producing guidelines may be less satisfying to the authors, but more appropriate.\n\nIn common with most science and medicine, algorithms whose contents are not wholly available for scrutiny and open to improvement should be regarded with suspicion. \n\nComputations obtained from medical algorithms should be compared with, and tempered by, clinical knowledge and physician judgment.\n\n"}
{"id": "19168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19168", "title": "Misogyny", "text": "Misogyny\n\nMisogyny () is the hatred of, contempt for, or prejudice against women or girls. Misogyny is manifest in numerous ways, including social exclusion, sex discrimination, hostility, androcentrism, patriarchy, male privilege, belittling of women, violence against women, and sexual objectification. Misogyny can be found within sacred texts of religions, mythologies, and Western philosophies.\n\nAccording to sociologist Allan G. Johnson, \"misogyny is a cultural attitude of hatred for females because they are female\". Johnson argues that:\nSociologist Michael Flood at the University of Wollongong defines misogyny as the hatred of women, and notes:\nDictionaries define misogyny as \"hatred of women\" and as \"hatred, dislike, or mistrust of women\". In 2012, primarily in response to events occurring in the Australian Parliament, the Macquarie Dictionary (which documents Australian English and New Zealand English) expanded the definition to include not only hatred of women but also \"entrenched prejudices against women\". The counterpart of misogyny is misandry, the hatred or dislike of men; the antonym of misogyny is philogyny, the love or fondness of women.\n\nIn his book \"City of Sokrates: An Introduction to Classical Athens\", J.W. Roberts argues that older than tragedy and comedy was a misogynistic tradition in Greek literature, reaching back at least as far as Hesiod. The term \"misogyny\" itself comes directly into English from the Ancient Greek word \"misogunia\" (), which survives in several passages.\n\nThe earlier, longer, and more complete passage comes from a moral tract known as \"On Marriage\" (\"c\". 150 BC) by the stoic philosopher Antipater of Tarsus. Antipater argues that marriage is the foundation of the state, and considers it to be based on divine (polytheistic) decree. He uses \"misogunia\" to describe the sort of writing the tragedian Euripides eschews, stating that he \"reject[s] the hatred of women in his writing\" (ἀποθέμενος τὴν ἐν τῷ γράφειν μισογυνίαν). He then offers an example of this, quoting from a lost play of Euripides in which the merits of a dutiful wife are praised. \n\nThe other surviving use of the original Greek word is by Chrysippus, in a fragment from \"On affections\", quoted by Galen in \"Hippocrates on Affections\". Here, \"misogyny\" is the first in a short list of three \"disaffections\"—women (\"misogunia\"), wine (\"misoinia\", μισοινία) and humanity (\"misanthrōpia\", μισανθρωπία). Chrysippus' point is more abstract than Antipater's, and Galen quotes the passage as an example of an opinion contrary to his own. What is clear, however, is that he groups hatred of women with hatred of humanity generally, and even hatred of wine. \"It was the prevailing medical opinion of his day that wine strengthens body and soul alike.\" So Chrysippus, like his fellow stoic Antipater, views misogyny negatively, as a disease; a dislike of something that is good. It is this issue of conflicted or alternating emotions that was philosophically contentious to the ancient writers. Ricardo Salles suggests that the general stoic view was that \"[a] man may not only alternate between philogyny and misogyny, philanthropy and misanthropy, but be prompted to each by the other.\"\n\nAristotle has also been accused of being a misogynist; he has written that women were inferior to men. According to Cynthia Freeland (1994):\n\nIn the \"Routledge philosophy guidebook to Plato and the Republic\", Nickolas Pappas describes the \"problem of misogyny\" and states:\n\n\"Misogynist\" is also found in the Greek—\"misogunēs\" ()—in \"Deipnosophistae\" (above) and in Plutarch's \"Parallel Lives\", where it is used as the title of Heracles in the history of Phocion. It was the title of a play by Menander, which we know of from book seven (concerning Alexandria) of Strabo's 17 volume \"Geography\", and quotations of Menander by Clement of Alexandria and Stobaeus that relate to marriage. A Greek play with a similar name, \"Misogunos\" (Μισόγυνος) or \"Woman-hater\", is reported by Marcus Tullius Cicero (in Latin) and attributed to the poet Marcus Atilius.\nCicero reports that Greek philosophers considered misogyny to be caused by gynophobia, a fear of women.\n\nIn summary, Greek literature considered misogyny to be a disease—an anti-social condition—in that it ran contrary to their perceptions of the value of women as wives and of the family as the foundation of society. These points are widely noted in the secondary literature.\n\nIn \"Misogyny: The World's Oldest Prejudice\", Jack Holland argues that there is evidence of misogyny in the mythology of the ancient world. In Greek mythology according to Hesiod, the human race had already experienced a peaceful, autonomous existence as a companion to the gods before the creation of women. When Prometheus decides to steal the secret of fire from the gods, Zeus becomes infuriated and decides to punish humankind with an \"evil thing for their delight\". This \"evil thing\" is Pandora, the first woman, who carried a jar (usually described—incorrectly—as a box) which she was told to never open. Epimetheus (the brother of Prometheus) is overwhelmed by her beauty, disregards Prometheus' warnings about her, and marries her. Pandora cannot resist peeking into the jar, and by opening it she unleashes into the world all evil; labour, sickness, old age, and death.\n\nIn his book \"The Power of Denial: Buddhism, Purity, and Gender\", professor Bernard Faure of Columbia University argued generally that \"Buddhism is paradoxically neither as sexist nor as egalitarian as is usually thought.\" He remarked, \"Many feminist scholars have emphasized the misogynistic (or at least androcentric) nature of Buddhism\" and stated that Buddhism morally exalts its male monks while the mothers and wives of the monks also have important roles. Additionally, he wrote:\n\nDifferences in tradition and interpretations of scripture have caused sects of Christianity to differ in their beliefs with regard their treatment of women.\n\nIn \"The Troublesome Helpmate\", Katharine M. Rogers argues that Christianity is misogynistic, and she lists what she says are specific examples of misogyny in the Pauline epistles. She states:\n\nIn K. K. Ruthven's \"Feminist Literary Studies: An Introduction\", Ruthven makes reference to Rogers' book and argues that the \"legacy of Christian misogyny was consolidated by the so-called 'Fathers' of the Church, like Tertullian, who thought a woman was not only 'the gateway of the devil' but also 'a temple built over a sewer'.\"\n\nHowever, some other scholars have argued that Christianity does not include misogynistic principles, or at least that a proper interpretation of Christianity would not include misogynistic principles. David M. Scholer, a biblical scholar at Fuller Theological Seminary, stated that the verse Galatians 3:28 (\"There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free, there is neither male nor female; for you are all one in Christ Jesus\") is \"the fundamental Pauline theological basis for the inclusion of women and men as equal and mutual partners in all of the ministries of the church.\" In his book \"Equality in Christ? Galatians 3:28 and the Gender Dispute\", Richard Hove argues that—while Galatians 3:28 does mean that one's sex does not affect salvation—\"there remains a pattern in which the wife is to emulate the church's submission to Christ () and the husband is to emulate Christ's love for the church.\"\n\nIn \"Christian Men Who Hate Women\", clinical psychologist Margaret J. Rinck has written that Christian social culture often allows a misogynist \"misuse of the biblical ideal of submission\". However, she argues that this a distortion of the \"healthy relationship of mutual submission\" which is actually specified in Christian doctrine, where \"[l]ove is based on a deep, mutual respect as the guiding principle behind all decisions, actions, and plans\". Similarly, Catholic scholar Christopher West argues that \"male domination violates God's plan and is the specific result of sin\".\n\nThe fourth chapter (or \"sura\") of the Quran is called \"Women\" (An-Nisa). The 34th verse is a key verse in feminist criticism of Islam.\nThe verse reads: \"Men are the maintainers of women because Allah has made some of them to excel others and because they spend out of their property; the good women are therefore obedient, guarding the unseen as Allah has guarded; and (as to) those on whose part you fear desertion, admonish them, and leave them alone in the sleeping-places and beat them; then if they obey you, do not seek a way against them; surely Allah is High, Great.\"\n\nIn his book \"Popular Islam and Misogyny: A Case Study of Bangladesh\", Taj Hashmi discusses misogyny in relation to Muslim culture (and to Bangladesh in particular), writing:\n\nIn his book \"\", University of Southern California professor Reza Aslan wrote that \"misogynistic interpretation\" has been persistently attached to An-Nisa, 34 because commentary on the Quran \"has been the exclusive domain of Muslim men\".\n\nScholars William M. Reynolds and Julie A. Webber have written that Guru Nanak, the founder of the Sikh faith tradition, was a \"fighter for women's rights\" that was \"in no way misogynistic\" in contrast to some of his contemporaries.\n\nIn his book \"Scientology: A New Slant on Life\", L. Ron Hubbard wrote the following passage:\nIn the same book, he also wrote:\n\nThese passages, along with other ones of a similar nature from Hubbard, have been criticised by Alan Scherstuhl of \"The Village Voice\" as expressions of hatred towards women. However, Baylor University professor J. Gordon Melton has written that Hubbard later disregarded and abrogated much of his earlier views about women, which Melton views as merely echoes of common prejudices at the time. Melton has also stated that the Church of Scientology welcomes both genders equally at all levels—from leadership positions to auditing and so on—since Scientologists view people as spiritual beings.\n\nNumerous influential Western philosophers have been expressed ideas that can be characterized as misogynistic, including Aristotle, René Descartes, Thomas Hobbes, John Locke, David Hume, Jean-Jacques Rousseau, G. W. F. Hegel, Arthur Schopenhauer, Friedrich Nietzsche, Charles Darwin, Sigmund Freud, Otto Weininger, Oswald Spengler, and John Lucas. Because of the influence of these thinkers, feminist scholars trace misogyny in western culture to these philosophers and their ideas.\n\nAristotle believed women were inferior and described them as \"deformed males\". In his work \"Politics\", he states \n\nas regards the sexes, the male is by nature superior and the female inferior, the male ruler and the female subject 4 (1254b13-14).\n\nAnother example is \"Cynthia's catalog\" where Cynthia states \"Aristotle says that the courage of a man lies in commanding, a woman's lies in obeying; that 'matter yearns for form, as the female for the male and the ugly for the beautiful'; that women have fewer teeth than men; that a female is an incomplete male or 'as it were, a deformity'. Aristotle believed that men and women naturally differed both physically and mentally. He claimed that women are \"more mischievous, less simple, more impulsive ... more compassionate[,] ... more easily moved to tears[,] ... more jealous, more querulous, more apt to scold and to strike[,] ... more prone to despondency and less hopeful[,] ... more void of shame or self-respect, more false of speech, more deceptive, of more retentive memory [and] ... also more wakeful; more shrinking [and] more difficult to rouse to action\" than men.\n\nJean-Jacques Rousseau is well known for his views against equal rights for women for example in his treatise \"Emile\", he writes: \"Always justify the burdens you impose upon girls but impose them anyway... . They must be thwarted from an early age... . They must be exercised to constraint, so that it costs them nothing to stifle all their fantasies to submit them to the will of others.\" Other quotes consist of \"closed up in their houses\", \"must receive the decisions of fathers and husbands like that of the church\".\n\nCharles Darwin wrote on the subject female inferiority through the lens of human evolution. He noted in his book \"The Descent of Men\": \"young of both sexes resembled the adult female in most species\" which he extrapolated and further reasoned \"males were more evolutionarily advanced than females\". Darwin believed all savages, children and women had smaller brains and therefore led more by instinct and less by reason. Such ideas quickly spread to other scientists such as Professor Carl Vogt of natural sciences at the University of Geneva who argued \"the child, the female, and the senile white\" had the mental traits of a \"grown up Negro\", that the female is similar in intellectual capacity and personality traits to both infants and the \"lower races\" such as blacks while drawing conclusion that women are closely related to lower animals than men and \"hence we should discover a greater apelike resemblance if we were to take a female as our standard\". Darwin's beliefs about women were also reflective of his attitudes towards women in general for example his views towards marriage as a young man in which he was quoted \"\"how should I manage all my business if obligated to go everyday walking with my wife – Ehau!\" and that being married was \"worse than being a Negro\". Or in other instances his concern of his son marrying a woman named Martineau about which he wrote \"... he shall be not much better than her \"nigger.\" Imagine poor Erasmus a nigger to so philosophical and energetic a lady ... Martineau had just returned from a whirlwind tour of America, and was full of married women's property rights ... Perfect equality of rights is part of her doctrine...We must pray for our poor \"nigger.\"\"\n\nArthur Schopenhauer has been noted as a misogynist by many such as the philosopher, critic, and author Tom Grimwood. In a 2008 article Grimwood wrote published in the philosophical journal of \"Kritique,\" Grimwood argues that Schopenhauer's misogynistic works have largely escaped attention despite being more noticeable than those of other philosophers such as Nietzsche. For example, he noted Schopenhauer's works where the latter had argued women only have \"meagre\" reason comparable that of \"the animal\" \"who lives in the present\". Other works he noted consisted of Schopenhauer's argument that women's only role in nature is to further the species through childbirth and hence is equipped with the power to seduce and \"capture\" men. He goes on to state that women's cheerfulness is chaotic and disruptive which is why it is crucial to exercise obedience to those with rationality. For her to function beyond her rational subjugator is a threat against men as well as other women, he notes. Schopenhauer also thought women's cheerfulness is an expression of her lack of morality and incapability to understand abstract or objective meaning such as art. This is followed up by his quote \"have never been able to produce a single, really great, genuine and original achievement in the fine arts, or bring to anywhere into the world a work of permanent value\". Arthur Schopenhauer also blamed women for the fall of King Louis XIII and triggering the French Revolution, in which he was later quoted as saying:\n\n\"At all events, a false position of the female sex, such as has its most acute symptom in our lady-business, is a fundamental defect of the state of society. Proceeding from the heart of this, it is bound to spread its noxious influence to all parts.\"\n\nSchopenhauer has also been accused of misogyny for his essay \"On Women\" (Über die Weiber), in which he expressed his opposition to what he called \"Teutonico-Christian stupidity\" on female affairs. He argued that women are \"by nature meant to obey\" as they are \"childish, frivolous, and short sighted\". He claimed that no woman had ever produced great art or \"any work of permanent value\". He also argued that women did not possess any real beauty:\n\nIn \"Beyond Good and Evil\", Friedrich Nietzsche stated that stricter controls on women was a condition of \"every elevation of culture\". In his \"Thus Spoke Zarathustra\", he has a female character say \"You are going to women? Do not forget the whip!\" In \"Twilight of the Idols\", Nietzsche writes \"Women are considered profound. Why? Because we never fathom their depths. But women aren't even shallow.\" There is controversy over the questions of whether or not this amounts to misogyny, whether his polemic against women is meant to be taken literally, and the exact nature of his opinions of women.\n\nHegel's view of women can be characterized as misogynistic. Passages from Hegel's \"Elements of the Philosophy of Right\" illustrate the criticism:\nMisogynistic rhetoric is prevalent online and has grown rhetorically more aggressive. The public debate over gender-based attacks has increased significantly, leading to calls for policy interventions and better responses by social networks like Facebook and Twitter.\n\nA 2016 study conducted by the think tank Demos concluded that 50% of all misogynistic tweets on Twitter come from women themselves.\n\nMost targets are women who are visible in the public sphere, women who speak out about the threats they receive, and women who are perceived to be associated with feminism or feminist gains. Authors of misogynistic messages are usually anonymous or otherwise difficult to identify. Their rhetoric involves misogynistic epithets and graphic and sexualized imagery, centers on the women's physical appearance, and prescribes sexual violence as a corrective for the targeted women. Examples of famous women who spoke out about misogynistic attacks are Anita Sarkeesian, Laurie Penny, Caroline Criado Perez, Stella Creasy, and Lindy West.\n\nThe insults and threats directed at different women tend to be very similar. Sady Doyle who has been the target of online threats noted the \"overwhelmingly impersonal, repetitive, stereotyped quality\" of the abuse, the fact that \"all of us are being called the same things, in the same tone\".\n\nInternalized sexism is when an individual enacts sexist actions and attitudes towards themselves and people of their own sex. On a larger scale, internalized sexism falls under the broad topic of internalized oppression, which \"consists of oppressive practices that continue to make the rounds even when members of the oppressor group are not present\". Women who experience internalized misogyny may express it through minimizing the value of women, mistrusting women, and believing gender bias in favor of men. Women, after hearing men demean the value and skills of women repeatedly, eventually internalize their beliefs and apply the misogynistic beliefs to themselves and other women. A common manifestation of internalized misogyny is lateral violence.\n\nSubscribers to one model say that some misogyny results from the Madonna–whore complex, which is the inability to see women as anything other than \"mothers\" or \"whores\"; people with this complex place each encountered woman into one of these categories. Another variant model alleges that one cause of misogyny is some men thinking in terms of a virgin/whore dichotomy, which results in them considering as \"whores\" any women who do not adhere to an Abrahamic standard of moral purity.\n\nIn the late 20th century, second-wave feminist theorists argued that misogyny is both a cause and a result of patriarchal social structures.\n\nSociologist Michael Flood has argued that \"misandry lacks the systemic, trans-historic, institutionalized, and legislated antipathy of misogyny\".\n\nIn recent years there has been increasing discussion in the UK of misogyny being added to the list of aggravating factors that are commonly referred to by the media as “hate crimes”. Aggravating factors in criminal sentencing currently include hostility to a victim due to characteristics such as sexuality, race or disability.\n\nIn 2016, Nottinghamshire Police began a pilot project to record misogynistic behaviour as either hate crime or hate incidents, depending on whether the action was a criminal offence. Over two years (April 2016-March 2018) there were 174 reports made, of which 73 were classified as crimes and 101 as incidents.\n\nIn September 2018 it was announced that the Law Commission would conduct a review into whether misogynistic conduct, as well as hostility due to ageism, misandry or towards groups such as goths, should be treated as a hate crime.\n\nIn October 2018, two senior police officers, Sara Thornton, chair of the National Police Chiefs' Council, and Cressida Dick, Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police, stated that police forces should focus on more serious crimes such as burglary and violent offences, and not on recording incidents which are not crimes. Thornton said that \"treating misogyny as a hate crime is a concern for some well-organised campaigning organisations\", but that police forces \"do not have the resources to do everything\".\n\nCamille Paglia, a self-described \"dissident feminist\" who has often been at odds with other academic feminists, argues that there are serious flaws in the Marxism-inspired interpretation of misogyny that is prevalent in second-wave feminism. In contrast, Paglia argues that a close reading of historical texts reveals that men do not \"hate\" women but \"fear\" them. Christian Groes-Green has argued that misogyny must be seen in relation to its opposite which he terms philogyny. Criticizing R. W. Connell's theory of hegemonic masculinities, he shows how philogynous masculinities play out among youth in Maputo, Mozambique.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49670086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49670086", "title": "Missionaries of Charity attack in Aden", "text": "Missionaries of Charity attack in Aden\n\nThe Missionaries of Charity attack in Aden was a mass murder crime committed by unknown gunmen inside a home for older people in Aden, Yemen on 4 March 2016.\n\n16 people were killed including four Catholic nuns. An Indian priest, Tom Ozhonaniel, was kidnapped. \n\nThe identities of the attackers are unknown. Media outlets published a statement attributed to Ansar al-Sharia, one of the active jihadist organizations in the country, denies any relation to the incident.\n\n\"The Times of India\" posited the attackers belonged to the Yemen-based affiliate of the Islamic State (ISIS) group.\n\nChristian presence in Yemen goes back to the fourth century AD to hold a number of Himyarites believers due to the efforts of Theophilos the Indian. Currently, there are no official statistics on their numbers, but estimated at between 3,000 and 25,000 people, and most of them are refugees or temporary residents.\n\nFreedom of worship, conversion from Islam and establishing facilities dedicated for worship are not recognized in the Constitution or as laws or legal rights. At the same time, Wahabbi activities linked to Al-Islah were being facilitated, financed and encouraged from multiple fronts including the Ministry of Endowments and Guidance, which says that its tasks \"to contribute to the development of Islamic awareness and circulation of the publication Education and Islamic morals and consolidation in the life of public and private citizens.\"\n\nThe Missionaries of Charity, founded by Mother Teresa, have worked in Aden since 1992, and the order has three other centers in Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeidah. Three Catholic nuns were killed in Hodeidah in 1998, two from India and the third from the Philippines, at the hands of a member of Al-Islah Abdullah al-Nashiri, arguing that they were calling for conversion to Christianity. In 2002, three Americans were killed in Baptists Hospital at the hands of another Al-Islah member named Abed Abdul Razak Kamel. Survivors say that the hospital was \"a political football\" often raised by Islamists (Al-Islah), who talked about it in mosques and hospital workers describing Hospital workers as \"spies\". But they emphasized that these opinions are a minority among Yemenis.\n\nIn December 2015, a Catholic church in Aden was destroyed. Since the escalation of the Yemeni crisis in March 2015, six priests from John Bosco remained, and twenty workers of charitable missions in the country, described by Pope Francis by the courage to fortitude amid war and conflict. He called the Apostolic Vicar of Southern Arabia to pray for all the oppressed and tortured, expelled from their homes, and killed unjustly. The Missionaries of Charity were not actively engaged in evangelization according to the testimonies of beneficiaries of its services.\n\nThe attack on the house took place at 12:00pm local time, when two armed men had persuaded the guards to let them through the main gate having claimed they were going to visit their elderly mother. Once they entered, they began to shoot randomly, according to Indian officials at the Foreign Ministry.\n\nInside the building, nuns were preparing breakfast. Four of the five nuns sensed danger and tried to hide in a convent, where they were shot dead in an open area. All the rooms were stormed and the meeting tent was destroyed, as were statues and crucifixes in the small church. In one picture, two nuns are shown lying on the ground in a dirt yard, after having been shot execution-style. The attackers were dressed in a \"semi-blue\" uniform. According to the Catholic News Agency, the last prayer said by the nuns before they were killed says:\nSunita Kumar, a spokesman for the charity's mission, described the killers as \"demented\", adding \"there is no other explanation as to why armed people would enter the premises of the home and shoot down innocent, harmless nurses who had dedicated their lives to serving others.\" Bishop Michael Lewis of the Anglican Church said the compound contained seventy or eighty elderly people, many destitute. The Cardinal Secretary of State Pietro Parolin commented that Pope Francis prayed that this pointless slaughter will awaken consciences, lead to a change of heart and inspire all parties to lay down their arms and take up the path of dialogue.\n\nPope Francis described the crime as \"satanic\", stating that the nuns were \"martyrs of today\", adding that they were killed by both the attackers, and a \"globalization of indifference.\". His statement was published, including the following quote:\nThe Missionaries of Charity announced it would continue its work in Yemen despite the violence and danger.\n\nAn Indian priest, Tom Ozhonaniel, was also kidnapped. Since, he has appeared in several videos chastising the lack of effort to release him and pleading for his life.\n\n"}
{"id": "1311504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1311504", "title": "Morphological freedom", "text": "Morphological freedom\n\nMorphological freedom refers to a proposed civil right of a person to either maintain or modify their own body, on their own terms, through informed, consensual recourse to, or refusal of, available therapeutic or enabling medical technology.\n\nThe term may have been coined by transhumanist Max More in his 1993 article, \"Technological Self-Transformation: Expanding Personal Extropy\", where he defined it as \"the ability to alter bodily form at will through technologies such as surgery, genetic engineering, nanotechnology, uploading\". The term was later used by science debater Anders Sandberg as \"an extension of one’s right to one’s body, not just self-ownership but also the right to modify oneself according to one’s desires.\"\n\nAccording to technocritic Dale Carrico, the politics of morphological freedom imply a commitment to the value, standing, and social legibility of the widest possible variety of desired morphologies and lifestyles. More specifically, morphological freedom is an expression of liberal pluralism, secularism, progressive cosmopolitanism, and posthumanist multiculturalisms applied to the ongoing and upcoming transformation of the understanding of medical practice from one of conventional therapy to one of consensual self-determination, via genetic, prosthetic, and cognitive modification.\n\nAccording to authors Calvin Mercer and Tracy J. Trothen there is tension between religion and transhumanists, particularly the Abrahamic traditions, with regards to morphological freedom. While religion generally recognizes the need to heal people and improve their situation from a medical perspective they are generally hesitant to promote a wholesale modification of the body as they see it ultimately belonging to their god.\n\n"}
{"id": "21508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21508", "title": "Noosphere", "text": "Noosphere\n\nThe noosphere (; sometimes noösphere) is the sphere of human thought. The word derives from the Greek νοῦς (nous \"mind\") and σφαῖρα (sphaira \"sphere\"), in lexical analogy to \"atmosphere\" and \"biosphere\". It was introduced by Pierre Teilhard de Chardin in 1922 in his \"Cosmogenesis\". Another possibility is the first use of the term by Édouard Le Roy (1870–1954), who together with Teilhard was listening to lectures of Vladimir Ivanovich Vernadsky at the Sorbonne. In 1936, Vernadsky accepted the idea of the noosphere in a letter to Boris Leonidovich Lichkov (though he states that the concept derives from Le Roy. Citing the work of Teilhard's biographer—Rene Cuenot—Sampson and Pitt stated that although the concept was jointly developed by all three men (Vernadsky, LeRoy, and Teilhard), Teilhard believed that he actually invented the word: \"I believe, so far as one can ever tell, that the word 'noosphere' was my invention: but it was he [Le Roy] who launched it.\"\n\nIn the theory of Vernadsky, the noosphere is the third in a succession of phases of development of the Earth, after the geosphere (inanimate matter) and the biosphere (biological life). Just as the emergence of life fundamentally transformed the geosphere, the emergence of human cognition fundamentally transforms the biosphere. In contrast to the conceptions of the Gaia theorists, or the promoters of cyberspace, Vernadsky's noosphere emerges at the point where humankind, through the mastery of nuclear processes, begins to create resources through the transmutation of elements. It is also currently being researched as part of the Princeton Global Consciousness Project.\n\nTeilhard perceived a directionality in evolution along an axis of increasing \"Complexity/Consciousness\". For Teilhard, the noosphere is the sphere of thought encircling the earth that has emerged through evolution as a consequence of this growth in complexity / consciousness. The noosphere is therefore as much part of nature as the barysphere, lithosphere, hydrosphere, atmosphere, and biosphere. As a result, Teilhard sees the \"social phenomenon [as] the culmination of and not the attenuation of the biological phenomenon.\" These social phenomena are part of the noosphere and include, for example, legal, educational, religious, research, industrial and technological systems. In this sense, the noosphere emerges through and is constituted by the interaction of human minds. The noosphere thus grows in step with the organization of the human mass in relation to itself as it populates the earth. Teilhard argued the noosphere evolves towards ever greater personalisation, individuation and unification of its elements. He saw the Christian notion of love as being the principal driver of noogenesis. Evolution would culminate in the Omega Point—an apex of thought/consciousness—which he identified with the eschatological return of Christ.\n\nOne of the original aspects of the noosphere concept deals with evolution. Henri Bergson, with his \"L'évolution créatrice\" (1907), was one of the first to propose evolution is \"creative\" and cannot necessarily be explained solely by Darwinian natural selection. \"L'évolution créatrice\" is upheld, according to Bergson, by a constant vital force which animates life and fundamentally connects mind and body, an idea opposing the dualism of René Descartes. In 1923, C. Lloyd Morgan took this work further, elaborating on an \"emergent evolution\" which could explain increasing complexity (including the evolution of mind). Morgan found many of the most interesting changes in living things have been largely discontinuous with past evolution. Therefore, these living things did not necessarily evolve through a gradual process of natural selection. Rather, he posited, the process of evolution experiences jumps in complexity (such as the emergence of a self-reflective universe, or noosphere). Finally, the complexification of human cultures, particularly language, facilitated a quickening of evolution in which cultural evolution occurs more rapidly than biological evolution. Recent understanding of human ecosystems and of human impact on the biosphere have led to a link between the notion of sustainability with the \"co-evolution\" and harmonization of cultural and biological evolution.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36196717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36196717", "title": "Obsolete Austrian units of measurement", "text": "Obsolete Austrian units of measurement\n\nAustrian units of measurement were used in Austria until the adoption of the metric system.\n\nIn 1756, the ruling Arch duchess of Austria, Maria Theresa, ordered that the Viennese \"klafter\" as well as its multiples and fractions, should be the state-defined measure of length in the Archduchy of Austria and the Kingdom of Hungary. The Viennese cubit, that is 1 of the Roman cubit (cubit's or elbow), was also used as a measure of length.\n\nThe law should also have applied to the Lands of the Bohemian Crown, of which Maria Theresa was queen. However, the traditional Roman foot remained in common use in Prague.\n\nWhen the metric system was introduced by law on 23 July 1871 (which became obligatory on 1 January 1876), the length of the \"klafter\" (kl) was established as exactly 1.89648384 metres.\n\nAustrian post-mile, police-mile, geographic mile = 3,910 Viennese \"klafters\".\n\n"}
{"id": "52102822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52102822", "title": "Political insult", "text": "Political insult\n\nPolitical insult refers to a statement from a politician about another one which contains disdainful purpose or notorious offense. They are not defined in any political protocol and moreover are strongly recommended not to be used in diplomatic language.\n\n"}
{"id": "340401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=340401", "title": "Public interest", "text": "Public interest\n\nPublic interest is \"the welfare or well-being of the general public\".\n\nEconomist Lok Sang Ho in his \"Public Policy and the Public Interest\" argues that the public interest must be assessed impartially and, therefore, defines the public interest as the \"\"ex ante\" welfare of the representative individual.\" Under a thought experiment, by assuming that there is an equal chance for one to be anyone in society and, thus, could benefit or suffer from a change, the public interest is by definition enhanced whenever that change is preferred to the status quo \"ex ante\". This approach is \"ex ante\", in the sense that the change is not evaluated after the fact but assessed before the fact without knowing whether one would actually benefit or suffer from it.\n\nThis approach follows the \"veil of ignorance\" approach, which was first proposed by John Harsanyi but popularized by John Rawls in his 1971 \"Theory of Justice\". Historically, however, the approach can be traced to John Stuart Mill, who, in his letter to George Grote, explained that \"human happiness, even one's own, is in general more successfully pursued by acting on general rules, than by measuring the consequences of each act; and this is still more the case with the general happiness, since any other plan would not only leave everybody uncertain what to expect, but would involve perpetual quarrelling...\"\n\nThe Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales argues that applying a detailed definition is likely to result in unintended consequences, in Acting in the Public Interest(2012). Instead, each circumstance needs to be assessed based on criteria such as the relevant public, wants, and constraints. The key to assessing any public interest decision is transparency of the decision-making process, including balancing competing interests.\n\n“Public interest law” is a term that became widely adopted in the United States during and after the social turmoil of the 1960s. It built upon a tradition exemplified by Louis Brandeis, who before becoming a U.S. Supreme Court justice incorporated advocacy for the interests of the general public into his legal practice. \nIn a celebrated 1905 speech, Brandeis decried the legal profession, complaining that “able lawyers have to a large extent allowed themselves to become adjuncts of great corporations and have neglected their obligation to use their powers for the protection of the people.” In the late 1960s and 1970s, large numbers of American law school graduates began to seek “relevance” in their work — wishing to have an effect on the social issues that were so visibly and hotly debated within American society at that time. They defined themselves as public interest lawyers in order to distinguish themselves from the “corporate adjuncts” referred to by Brandeis.\n\nPublic interest law does not describe a body of law or a legal field; the term was adopted to describe whom the public interest lawyers were representing, rather than what matters they would work on. Instead of representing powerful economic interests, they chose to be advocates for otherwise underrepresented individuals. Consequently, a significant current in public interest lawyering has always emphasized the need to provide legal services to those living in poverty. The term has grown, however, to encompass a broader range of activities of lawyers and non-lawyers working toward a multitude of objectives, including civil rights, civil liberties, women’s rights, consumer rights, environmental protection, and so on. Nevertheless, a common denominator for public interest lawyers in the United States and in a growing number of countries remains the ethic of “fighting for the little guy”—that is, representing the underrepresented and vulnerable segments of society.\n\nPublic interest has been considered as the core of \"democratic theories of government” and often paired with two other concepts, \"convenience\" and \"necessity\". Public interest, convenience and necessity appeared for the first time in the Transportation Act of 1920 and also appeared in the Radio Act of 1927. After that, these three concepts became critical criteria for making communication policies and solving some related disputes.\n\n"}
{"id": "4635563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4635563", "title": "Quinarian system", "text": "Quinarian system\n\nThe quinarian system was a method of zoological classification which was popular in the mid 19th century, especially among British naturalists. It was largely developed by the entomologist William Sharp Macleay in 1819. The system was further promoted in the works of Nicholas Aylward Vigors, William John Swainson and Johann Jakob Kaup. Swainson's work on ornithology gave wide publicity to the idea. The system had opponents even before the publication of Charles Darwin's \"On the Origin of Species\" (1859), which paved the way for evolutionary trees.\n\nQuinarianism gets its name from the emphasis on the number five: it proposed that all taxa are divisible into five subgroups, and if fewer than five subgroups were known, quinarians believed that a missing subgroup remained to be found.\n\nPresumably this arose as a chance observation of some accidental analogies between different groups, but it was erected into a guiding principle by the quinarians. It became increasingly elaborate, proposing that each group of five classes could be arranged in a circle, with those closer together having greater affinities. Typically they were depicted with relatively advanced groups at the top, and supposedly degenerate forms towards the bottom. Each circle could touch or overlap with adjacent circles; the equivalent overlapping of actual groups in nature was called osculation.\n\nAnother aspect of the system was the identification of \"analogies\" across groups:\nQuinarianism was not widely popular outside the United Kingdom (some followers like William Hincks persisted in Canada); it became unfashionable by the 1840s, during which time more complex \"maps\" were made by Hugh Edwin Strickland and Alfred Russel Wallace. Strickland and others specifically rejected the use of relations of \"analogy\" in constructing natural classifications. These systems were eventually discarded in favour of principles of genuinely natural classification, namely based on evolutionary relationship.\n"}
{"id": "20287671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20287671", "title": "Self-affirmation", "text": "Self-affirmation\n\nSelf-affirmation theory is a psychological theory that focuses on how individuals adapt to information or experiences that are threatening to their self-concept. Claude Steele originally popularized self-affirmation theory in the late 1980s, and it remains a well-studied theory in social psychological research.\n\nSelf-affirmation theory contends that if individuals reflect on values that are personally relevant to them, they are less likely to experience distress and react defensively when confronted with information that contradicts or threatens their sense of self.\n\nExperimental investigations of self-affirmation theory suggest that self-affirmation can help individuals cope with threat or stress and that it might be beneficial for improving academic performance, health, and reducing defensiveness.\n\nThere are four main principles of self-affirmation theory.\n\nSelf-affirmation theory proposes that individuals are driven to protect their self-integrity. According to self-affirmation theory, self-integrity is one's concept of oneself as a good, moral person, who acts in ways that are in accord with cultural and social norms. Steele purported that the self is made up of different domains: roles, values, and belief systems. Roles include responsibilities a person has, such as being a parent, friend, student, or professional. Values are aspirations people live in accordance to, including things like living healthfully and treating others with respect. Belief systems include the ideologies to which a person ascribes, such as religious or political beliefs. Self-integrity can take many forms. For example, self-integrity can take the form of being independent, intelligent, a helpful member of a society, part of a family, and/or part of a group. Threats against a person's self-integrity are events or messages that imply an individual is not good or adequate in a personally relevant domain. Self-affirmation theory suggests that when individuals face threat to one of these domains, they are motivated to maintain a positive global image of themselves.\n\nSelf-affirmation theory purports that when individuals are faced with information that threatens their self-integrity, the response to this information is often defensive in nature. Defensive reactions attempt to minimize the threat in order to preserve the sense of self. Examples of defensive reactions include denial, avoiding the threat, and changing one's appraisal of the event in order to make it less threatening.\n\nInstead of having one self-concept (e.g., I am a good parent), self-affirmation theory posits that individuals flexibly define who they are using various roles (e.g., I am a good parent, child, and worker). Having a flexible sense of self allows individual to offset weaknesses in one domain, by highlighting the strengths in another domain. That is, if someone perceives threat to one domain, he or she can accommodate this threat by upholding a value in another domain. Self-affirmations can come from many sources. Having a flexible self-concept allows people to adapt in the face of threat.\n\nIt is theorized that engaging in activities that promote the values, beliefs, and roles that are central to an individual's identity can promote self-integrity. Promoting one's values can affirm the individual and reduce the perceived threat. Engaging in such actions when facing threat serves to remind individuals of the broad, principal values by which they define themselves and their lives. This change in perspective shifts attention away from the threat in one domain of the self toward a larger context of who they are. It is thought that when people operate from this broader perspective, they react less defensively to the threat, which allows them to act more effectively. Self-Affirmations can occur by both reflecting on a personally relevant value, belief, or role, as well as engaging in an activity that might evoke a personally relevant value, such as spending time with family if that is personally relevant.\n\nTaken together, the four principles suggest that when confronted with information that threatens self-concept, the person experiences distress and is subsequently motivated to self-defense. However, the defensive reaction can impede more adaptive ways to solve the problem (like engaging in problem-solving or changing unhealthy behaviors). It is thought that affirming an important value unrelated to the threat helps individuals to shift their perspective to their broader life context. Having a broad viewpoint diminishes the perceived threat, allowing individuals to act less defensively and more effectively.\n\nIn laboratory experiments, psychologists induce self-affirmation in participants in order to investigate the influence of self-affirmation on individuals' well-being. There are two chief methods used to self-affirm participants in experimental studies.\n\nOne of the most common ways to induce self-affirmation is to have participants write about a personally relevant value. In order to do this, participants rank a list of values from most important to least important to them. The list typically includes the following value domains, business, art/music/theater, social life/relationships, science/pursuit of knowledge, religion/morality, and government/politics. Participants then write about the value they ranked as most important and how it is meaningful to them for 10 minutes.\n\nThe Allport-Vernon-Lindzey Values Scale is another measures that is administered to participants to induce self-affirmation in the laboratory. Participants choose one of two answers after reading a statement about a value. An example item from the religion scale would be “The more important study for mankind is (a) mathematics (b) theology”. This allows researchers to see where an individual's personal interests and values lie. It is thought that answering questions about a value domain that they find important will make that value more salient to them, resulting in self-affirmation. There are six different value domains on the Allport-Vernon-Lindzey Values scale: religion, theoretical, aesthetic, political, social, and economic.\n\nExtant empirical research demonstrates that self-affirmations can be beneficial in reducing individuals' stress response as well as their defensiveness toward threats.\n\nIn one study investigating the effects of self-affirmation on stress response, undergraduate participants completed the Trier Social Stress Test, a standardized laboratory paradigm used to induce stress in participants. In the Trier Social Stress task, participants are asked to give a short speech in front of a panel of judges who do not give any comments or positive feedback to the participant. Following the speech, participants must complete a mental arithmetic task, in which they count backwards from 2,083 in increments of 13 while being told by the judges to go faster. Prior to completing the Trier Social Stress Task, half of the participants completed a variation of values list self-affirmation task. Participants who completed the values list had significantly lower stress response than individuals in the control condition, as indicated by a lower cortisol response in affirmed participants compared to participants who did not complete the self-affirmation condition.\n\nIn a different experiment, undergraduate students completed difficult problem solving puzzles in the presence of an evaluator. Participants also reported how much chronic stress they endured over the past month. Prior to completing the problem-solving puzzles half of the participants completed a values essay self-affirmation task. For the individuals who did not complete the self-affirmation task, low-stress participants performed significantly better than high-stress participants. For individuals in the self-affirmation condition, high-stress individuals performed equally as well as low-stress individuals. Findings suggest that self-affirmation buffered against the negative effects of stress on problem-solving performance.\n\nFor another experiment, undergraduates were recruited to participate in a research study two weeks prior to completing a mid-term exam. All participants collected urine samples for 24 hours two weeks prior to their midterm (baseline) as well as for the 24 hours prior to their midterm examination so levels their catecholamine levels could be measured. Catecholamine levels are thought to be high when individuals are experiencing higher stress. Half of participants completed two values essays in the two weeks leading up to their midterm examination. Participants who did not complete the self-affirmation condition demonstrated increased catecholamine response from baseline to their midterm exam. However, participants who completed the two values essays did not show an increase in catecholamine levels from baseline to their midterm.\n\nPreliminary research results suggest that self-affirmation can protect against the negative consequences of stress. More research is needed to understand \"how\" self-affirmations decrease stress responses.\n\nResults from studies provide support for the idea that when individuals complete an activity that affirms their self-integrity they are less defensive and more accepting of information that is potentially threatening. However, more research is needed to better understand \"why\" people are more open-minded after they have completed an affirmation task.\n\nStudies have examined the effects of self-affirmation on the academic performance of historically marginalized groups such as African American and Latino American students, who face a multitude of daily threats in the school environment. Seventh grade students took part in a two-year study. Half of the students completed a values essay about their most important value approximately seven to eight times over the course of two academic years, while the other half wrote a values essay about why their least important value might be of value to someone else. The study tracked the students' grades for three years. Ethnic minority students in the self-affirmation condition received higher grade point averages than the ethnic minority students who wrote about why their least important value might be important to someone else. There was no effect of self-affirmation in white students. Findings suggest that for students who face daily, repeated stressors at school, self-affirmation buffers against worsening school performance.\n\nSimilarly, values affirmation decreased the achievement gap for college students from low socioeconomic status and for women in introductory physics courses. These findings suggest that self-affirmation can have a buffering effect on academic achievement for groups who face the most threat.\n\nWomen concerned with their weight were recruited for a study. Concern with weight has similar effects of stress in that it can cause psychological distress, poor eating, and weight gain. Half of the women completed a values essay. Self-affirmed participants had lost more weight, had lower body mass index, and smaller waist circumference than non-affirmed women.\n\nPatients with end stage renal disease participated in a study assessing the effects of self-affirmation on adherence to phosphate binders that facilitate control of phosphate levels. Poor phosphate control in this population can be dangerous and life-threatening. There was a significant improvement in serum phosphate levels for the affirmed patients compared to the non-affirmed patients, suggesting better adherence to phosphate binders.\n\nIndividualist and collectivist cultures place different levels of importance on belonging to in-groups, and it is thought that this may vary the effects of self-affirmation. One study investigated the effects of self-affirmation on reducing cognitive dissonance. This study found that self-affirmed participants from individualist cultures saw reductions in cognitive dissonance, whereas self-affirmed participants from collectivist cultures did not experience a reduction in cognitive dissonance. Another study examined the effect on individuals from individualist and collectivist backgrounds of writing a values essay about a value that was important to the participant compared to a value that was important to the participant's family. The authors found reduced cognitive dissonance for participants from collectivist cultures who wrote about values important to them and their families, and found reduced cognitive dissonance for participants from individualist cultures who wrote about a value important to just them.\n\nBenefits from self-affirmation are thought to primarily occur when the perceived threat is in an area of importance to the individual. For example, in the experiment detailed above in which coffee drinkers read an article about caffeine consumption and increased risk of breast cancer, self-affirmation only reduced defensiveness in individuals who were heavy coffee drinkers and not in occasional coffee drinkers. Because an article on the risks associated with caffeine consumption might not pose the same threat to occasional coffee drinkers as to heavy coffee drinkers, self-affirmation likely does not provide the same benefit for occasional coffee drinkers. Thus, the importance of the threatened domain to one's self-integrity is thought to influence the effectiveness of self-affirmations.\n\nResearch has not yet identified the underlying mechanisms of how self-affirmation buffers against stress and reduces defensiveness. However, it is believed that there is not just one factor responsible for the effects of self-affirmation, but rather many. To date, increasing positive emotions and self-esteem have been investigated as mechanisms of self-affirmation, but the findings are mixed. Some studies have found that positive mood brings about similar reductions in defensiveness as self-affirmations. In contrast, several studies fail to detect any effect of self-affirmation on mood, suggesting self-affirmation does not operate via increases in positive mood. Similarly, results on the effects of self-affirmation on self-esteem are also mixed. Some studies have observed increases in self-esteem following self-affirmation, whereas other have found no effect on self-esteem. More research is needed to better understand \"how\" self-affirmation can provide benefit to individuals.\n"}
{"id": "634998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=634998", "title": "Self-parenting", "text": "Self-parenting\n\nThe idea of self-parenting is that a person's \"mind\" is created in the form of a conversation between two voices generated by the two parts of the cerebral hemisphere. One is the \"inner parent\" represented by the left brain with the other voice being the \"inner child\" represented by the right brain. The manner and quality by which these \"inner conversations\" take place between the two voices is most accurately described as self-parenting. The inner parent is parenting the inner child within the inner conversations.\n\nAnother way of seeing self-parenting through a different perspective is first off knowing that usually some individuals are not strong when it comes to dealing with problems with their inner self; they usually need a mentor with positive feedback, there to guide them with certain strategies and most of all to overcome obstacles. Most of the time when they are in need to dealing with the forces of reality, they may place too much pressure on certain people.\n\nThe individual quality of a person's self-parenting style is said to closely resemble the specific style of parenting he or she received growing up as child.\n"}
{"id": "2163544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2163544", "title": "Sieve (category theory)", "text": "Sieve (category theory)\n\nIn category theory, a branch of mathematics, a sieve is a way of choosing arrows with a common codomain. It is a categorical analogue of a collection of open subsets of a fixed open set in topology. In a Grothendieck topology, certain sieves become categorical analogues of open covers in topology. Sieves were introduced by in order to reformulate the notion of a Grothendieck topology.\n\nLet C be a category, and let \"c\" be an object of C. A sieve \"S\" on \"c\" is a subfunctor of Hom(−, \"c\"), i.e., for all objects \"c\"′ of C, \"S\"(\"c\"′) ⊆ Hom(\"c\"′, \"c\"), and for all arrows \"f\":\"c\"″→\"c\"′, \"S\"(\"f\") is the restriction of Hom(\"f\", \"c\"), the pullback by \"f\" (in the sense of precomposition, not of fiber products), to \"S\"(\"c\"′).\n\nPut another way, a sieve is a collection \"S\" of arrows with a common codomain which satisfies the functoriality condition, \"If \"g\":\"c\"′→\"c\" is an arrow in \"S\", and if \"f\":\"c\"″→\"c\"′ is any other arrow in C, then the pullback is in \"S\".\" Consequently sieves are similar to right ideals in ring theory or filters in order theory.\n\nThe most common operation on a sieve is \"pullback\". Pulling back a sieve \"S\" on \"c\" by an arrow \"f\":\"c\"′→\"c\" gives a new sieve \"f\"\"S\" on \"c\"′. This new sieve consists of all the arrows in \"S\" which factor through \"c\"′.\n\nThere are several equivalent ways of defining \"f\"\"S\". The simplest is:\n\nA more abstract formulation is:\n\nHere the map Hom(−, \"c\"′)→Hom(−, \"c\") is Hom(\"f\", \"c\"′), the pullback by \"f\".\n\nThe latter formulation suggests that we can also take the image of \"S\"×Hom(−, \"c\"′) under the natural map to Hom(−, \"c\"). This will be the image of \"f\"\"S\" under composition with \"f\". For each object \"d\" of C, this sieve will consist of all arrows \"fg\", where \"g\":\"d\"→\"c\"′ is an arrow of \"f\"\"S\"(\"d\"). In other words, it consists of all arrows in \"S\" that can be factored through \"f\".\n\nIf we denote by ∅ the empty sieve on \"c\", that is, the sieve for which ∅(\"d\") is always the empty set, then for any \"f\":\"c\"′→\"c\", \"f\"∅ is ∅. Furthermore, \"f\"Hom(−, \"c\") = Hom(−, \"c\"′).\n\nLet \"S\" and \"S\"′ be two sieves on \"c\". We say that \"S\" ⊆ \"S\"′ if for all objects \"c\"′ of C, \"S\"(\"c\"′) ⊆ \"S\"′(\"c\"′). For all objects \"d\" of C, we define (\"S\" ∪ \"S\"′)(\"d\") to be \"S\"(\"d\") ∪ \"S\"′(\"d\") and (\"S\" ∩ \"S\"′)(\"d\") to be \"S\"(\"d\") ∩ \"S\"′(\"d\"). We can clearly extend this definition to infinite unions and intersections as well.\n\nIf we define Sieve(\"c\") (or Sieve(\"c\") for short) to be the set of all sieves on \"c\", then Sieve(\"c\") becomes a partially ordered under ⊆. It is easy to see from the definition that the union or intersection of any family of sieves on \"c\" is a sieve on \"c\", so Sieve(\"c\") is a complete lattice.\n\nA Grothendieck topology is a collection of sieves subject to certain properties. These sieves are called \"covering sieves\". The set of all covering sieves on an object \"c\" is a subset \"J\"(\"c\") of Sieve(\"c\"). \"J\"(\"c\") satisfies several properties in addition to those required by the definition:\n\n\nConsequently, \"J\"(\"c\") is also a distributive lattice, and it is cofinal in Sieve(\"c\").\n\n"}
{"id": "20647505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20647505", "title": "Strangelet", "text": "Strangelet\n\nA strangelet is a hypothetical particle consisting of a bound state of roughly equal numbers of up, down, and strange quarks. An equivalent description is that a strangelet is a small fragment of strange matter, small enough to be considered a particle. The size of an object composed of strange matter could, theoretically, range from a few femtometers across (with the mass of a light nucleus) to arbitrarily large. Once the size becomes macroscopic (on the order of metres across), such an object is usually called a strange star. The term \"strangelet\" originates with Edward Farhi and R. L. Jaffe. Strangelets have been suggested as a dark matter candidate.\n\nThe known particles with strange quarks are unstable because the strange quark is heavier than the up and down quarks, so strange particles, such as the Lambda particle, which contains an up, down, and strange quark, always lose their strangeness, by decaying via the weak interaction to lighter particles containing only up and down quarks. But states with a larger number of quarks might not suffer from this instability. This is the \"strange matter hypothesis\" of Bodmer and Witten. According to this hypothesis, when a large enough number of quarks are collected together, the lowest energy state is one which has roughly equal numbers of up, down, and strange quarks, namely a strangelet. This stability would occur because of the Pauli exclusion principle; having three types of quarks, rather than two as in normal nuclear matter, allows more quarks to be placed in lower energy levels.\n\nA nucleus is a collection of a large number of up and down quarks, confined into triplets (neutrons and protons). According to the strange matter hypothesis, strangelets are more stable than nuclei, so nuclei are expected to decay into strangelets. But this process may be extremely slow because there is a large energy barrier to overcome: as the weak interaction starts making a nucleus into a strangelet, the first few strange quarks form strange baryons, such as the Lambda, which are heavy. Only if many conversions occur almost simultaneously will the number of strange quarks reach the critical proportion required to achieve a lower energy state. This is very unlikely to happen, so even if the strange matter hypothesis were correct, nuclei would never be seen to decay to strangelets because their lifetime would be longer than the age of the universe. \n\nThe stability of strangelets depends on their size. This is because of (a) surface tension at the interface between quark matter and vacuum (which affects small strangelets more than big ones), and (b) screening of charges, which allows small strangelets to be charged, with a neutralizing cloud of electrons/positrons around them, but requires large strangelets, like any large piece of matter, to be electrically neutral in their interior. The charge screening distance tends to be of the order of a few femtometers, so only the outer few femtometers of a strangelet can carry charge.\n\nThe surface tension of strange matter is unknown. If it is smaller than a critical value (a few MeV per square femtometer) then large strangelets are unstable and will tend to fission into smaller strangelets (strange stars would still be stabilized by gravity). If it is larger than the critical value, then strangelets become more stable as they get bigger.\n\nAlthough nuclei do not decay to strangelets, there are other ways to create strangelets, so if the strange matter hypothesis is correct there should be strangelets in the universe. There are at least three ways they might be created in nature:\n\n\nThese scenarios offer possibilities for observing strangelets. If there are strangelets flying around the universe, then occasionally a strangelet should hit Earth, where it would appear as an exotic type of cosmic ray. If strangelets can be produced in high-energy collisions, then we might make them at heavy-ion colliders.\n\nAt heavy ion accelerators like the Relativistic Heavy Ion Collider (RHIC), nuclei are collided at relativistic speeds, creating strange and antistrange quarks that could conceivably lead to strangelet production. The experimental signature of a strangelet would be its very high ratio of mass to charge, which would cause its trajectory in a magnetic field to be very nearly, but not quite, straight. The STAR collaboration has searched for strangelets produced at the RHIC, but none were found. The Large Hadron Collider (LHC) is even less likely to produce strangelets, but searches are planned for the LHC detector.\n\nThe Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer (AMS), an instrument that is mounted on the International Space Station, could detect strangelets.\n\nIn May 2002, a group of researchers at Southern Methodist University reported the possibility that strangelets may have been responsible for seismic events recorded on October 22 and November 24 in 1993. The authors later retracted their claim, after finding that the clock of one of the seismic stations had a large error during the relevant period.\n\nIt has been suggested that the International Monitoring System being set up to verify the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty (CTBT) after entry into force may be useful as a sort of \"strangelet observatory\" using the entire Earth as its detector. The IMS will be designed to detect anomalous seismic disturbances down to energy release or less, and could be able to track strangelets passing through Earth in real time if properly exploited.\n\nIt has been suggested that strangelets of subplanetary i.e. heavy meteorite mass, would puncture planets and other solar system objects, leading to impact (exit) craters which show characteristic features.\n\nIf the strange matter hypothesis is correct \"and\" a stable negatively-charged strangelet with a surface tension larger than the aforementioned critical value exists, then a larger strangelet would be more stable than a smaller one. One speculation that has resulted from the idea is that a strangelet coming into contact with a lump of ordinary matter could convert the ordinary matter to strange matter. This \"ice-nine\"-like disaster scenario is as follows: one strangelet hits a nucleus, catalyzing its immediate conversion to strange matter. This liberates energy, producing a larger, more stable strangelet, which in turn hits another nucleus, catalyzing its conversion to strange matter. In the end, all the nuclei of all the atoms of Earth are converted, and Earth is reduced to a hot, large lump of strange matter. \n\nThis is not a concern for strangelets in cosmic rays because they are produced far from Earth and have had time to decay to their ground state, which is predicted by most models to be positively charged, so they are electrostatically repelled by nuclei, and would rarely merge with them. But high-energy collisions could produce negatively charged strangelet states which live long enough to interact with the nuclei of ordinary matter.\n\nThe danger of catalyzed conversion by strangelets produced in heavy-ion colliders has received some media attention, and concerns of this type were raised at the commencement of the RHIC experiment at Brookhaven, which could potentially have created strangelets. A detailed analysis concluded that the RHIC collisions were comparable to ones which naturally occur as cosmic rays traverse the solar system, so we would already have seen such a disaster if it were possible. RHIC has been operating since 2000 without incident. Similar concerns have been raised about the operation of the LHC at CERN but such fears are dismissed as far-fetched by scientists.\n\nIn the case of a neutron star, the conversion scenario seems much more plausible. A neutron star is in a sense a giant nucleus (20 km across), held together by gravity, but it is electrically neutral and so does not electrostatically repel strangelets. If a strangelet hit a neutron star, it could convert a small region of it, and that region would grow to consume the entire star, creating a quark star.\n\nThe strange matter hypothesis remains unproven. No direct search for strangelets in cosmic rays or particle accelerators has seen a strangelet (see references in earlier sections). If any of the objects such as neutron stars could be shown to have a surface made of strange matter, this would indicate that strange matter is stable at zero pressure, which would vindicate the strange matter hypothesis. However there is no strong evidence for strange matter surfaces on neutron stars (see below).\n\nAnother argument against the hypothesis is that if it were true, all neutron stars should be made of strange matter, and otherwise none should be. Even if there were only a few strange stars initially, violent events such as collisions would soon create many strangelets flying around the universe. Because a single strangelet will convert a neutron star to strange matter, by now all neutron stars would have been converted. This argument is still debated, but if it is correct then showing that one neutron star has a conventional nuclear matter crust would disprove the strange matter hypothesis.\n\nBecause of its importance for the strange matter hypothesis, there is an ongoing effort to determine whether the surfaces of neutron stars are made of strange matter or nuclear matter. The evidence currently favors nuclear matter. This comes from the phenomenology of X-ray bursts, which is well explained in terms of a nuclear matter crust, and from measurement of seismic vibrations in magnetars.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10137896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10137896", "title": "Tensor product of quadratic forms", "text": "Tensor product of quadratic forms\n\nThe tensor product of quadratic forms is most easily understood when one views the quadratic forms as \"quadratic spaces\". If \"R\" is a commutative ring where \"2\" is invertible, and if formula_1 and formula_2 are two quadratic spaces over \"R\", then their tensor product formula_3 is the quadratic space whose underlying \"R\"-module is the tensor product formula_4 of \"R\"-modules and whose quadratic form is the quadratic form associated to the tensor product of the bilinear forms associated to formula_5 and formula_6.\n\nIn particular, the form formula_7 satisfies\n\n(which does uniquely characterize it however). It follow from this that if we have diagonalizations of our quadratic forms (which is always possible if formula_9 is invertible) such that \n\nthen the tensor product has diagonalization\n"}
{"id": "42959802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42959802", "title": "Transformed cladistics", "text": "Transformed cladistics\n\nTransformed cladistics, also known as pattern cladistics is an epistemological approach to the cladistic method of phylogenetic inference and classification that makes no a priori assumptions about common ancestry. It was advocated by Norman Platnick, Colin Patterson, Ronald Brady and others in the 1980s, but has few modern proponents. The book, \"Foundations of Systematics and Biogeography\" by David Williams and Malte Ebach provides a thoughtful history of the origins of this point of view.\n\nThe traditional approach to cladistics, which traces back to Willi Hennig , groups together organisms based on whether or not they share derived characters or character states that are assumed to be descended from a common ancestor. Transformed cladists maintain that the assumption of common descent is uninformative and/or potentially misleading, and that therefore cladistic methods should be free from evolutionary process assumptions, and based only on parsimonious interpretation of empirical data: \n\nIn other words, pattern cladists argue that the fewer evolutionary assumptions a classification presupposes, the fewer errors creep in, and greater transparency results. They draw a distinction between patterns, which are observed, and processes, which may be inferred from patterns, but which should not be presupposed. Before the emergence of cladistics as a school, Joseph Henry Woodger criticized phylogenetic systematics on the grounds that homology by way of common ancestry is \"putting the cart before the horse, because descent from a common ancestor is something assumed, not observed. It belongs to theory, whereas morphological correspondence is observed.\" . Colin Patterson later wrote similarly:\n\nPattern cladists, like traditional cladists, think that classifications should be isomorphic to cladograms, recognizing groups based on nested patterns of synapomorphies, but they argue that the discovery of characters is not dependent on apriori considerations about common ancestry:\n\nNelson & Platnick (1981) also noted that: \"\"all\" of Hennig’s groups correspond by definition to patterns of synapomorphy. Indeed, Hennig’s trees are frequently called synapomorphy schemes. The concept of ‘patterns within patterns’ seems, therefore, an empirical generalization.” Pattern cladists hence regard synapomorphies to be patterns free of processes.\n\nA frequent (but false) accusation against pattern cladistics is that its proponents claim that systematics should be \"theory free.\" At some point in the 1960s and '70s pheneticists may have believed that, but pattern cladists are not pheneticists. Obviously, rejecting a priori evolutionary process theories is not the same thing as categorically rejecting \"theory\" in toto. Furthermore, pattern cladists do not reject post hoc evolutionary explanations for cladograms, they simply think that the evidence is independent of the explanation . Nevertheless, some philosophers with a background conciliatory towards evolutionary taxonomy continue to offer criticisms in this vein:\nOf course, the distinction between the phenomenon and its explanation was clear to Darwin: \"the grand fact in natural history of the subordination of group under group, which from its familiarity, does not always sufficiently strike us, is in my judgment fully explained.\" \n\nBrady introduced the terms \"explanandum\" for empirical patterns (the phenomenon to be explained) and \"explanans\" for process theory (the explanation), writing: \"by making our explanation into the definition of the condition [data] to be explained, we express not scientific hypothesis but belief\". In the above quote, Darwin's \"fact\" is the \"explanandum\"; his theory of descent with modification is the \"explanans\".\n\nIn this view, whatever the characters imply as the preferred hypothesis of relationships becomes, de facto, \"genealogical\" when we explain it as a result of evolution. \n\nAs noted, transformed cladistics does not deny common ancestry, rather it argues a logical precedence: theories regarding processes should only be formulated after patterns are discovered. Creationists have distorted this to argue that there are pattern cladists who are skeptical about whether evolution occurs. \n\nIn November, 1981, Patterson delivered a seminar to the Systematics Discussion Group in the American Museum of Natural History. In the talk, Patterson asked provocatively: \"Can you tell me anything about evolution, any one thing that is true?\", and remarked:\n\nA creationist in the audience taped segments of Patterson's talk to imply he was \"agnostic\" on the subject of evolution. To his dismay, Patterson soon found his name quoted in creationist publications:\n\nA notable contemporary pattern cladist is Andrew V. Z.Brower.\n\n"}
{"id": "35510934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35510934", "title": "Two-state vector formalism", "text": "Two-state vector formalism\n\nThe two-state vector formalism (TSVF) is a description of quantum mechanics in terms of a causal relation in which the present is caused by quantum states of the past and of the future taken in combination.\n\nThe two-state vector formalism is one example of a time-symmetric interpretation of quantum mechanics (see Minority interpretations of quantum mechanics). Time-symmetric interpretations of quantum mechanics were first suggested by Walter Schottky in 1921, and later by several other scientists. The two-state vector formalism was first developed by Satosi Watanabe in 1955, who named it the Double Inferential state-Vector Formalism (DIVF). Watanabe proposed that information given by forwards evolving quantum states is not complete; rather, both forwards and backwards evolving quantum states are required to describe a quantum state: a first state vector that evolves from the initial conditions towards the future, and a second state vector that evolves backwards in time from future boundary conditions. Past and future measurements, taken together, provide complete information about a quantum system. Watanabe's work was later rediscovered by Yakir Aharonov, Peter Bergmann and Joel Lebowitz in 1964, who later renamed it the Two-State Vector Formalism (TSVF). Conventional prediction, as well as retrodiction, can be obtained formally by separating out the initial conditions (or, conversely, the final conditions) by performing sequences of coherence-destroying operations, thereby cancelling out the influence of the two state vectors.\n\nThe \"two-state vector\" is represented by:\n\nwhere the state formula_1 evolves backwards from the future and the state formula_2 evolves forwards from the past.\n\nIn the example of the double-slit experiment, the first state vector evolves from the electron leaving its source, the second state vector evolves backwards from the final location of the electron on the detection screen, and the combination of forwards and backwards evolving state vectors determines what occurs when the electron passes the slits.\n\nThe two-state vector formalism provides a time-symmetric description of quantum mechanics, and is constructed such as to be time-reversal invariant. It can be employed in particular for analyzing pre- and post-selected quantum systems. Building on the notion of two-state, Reznik and Aharonov constructed a time-symmetric formulation of quantum mechanics that encompasses probabilistic observables as well as nonprobabilistic weak observables.\n\nIn view of the TSVF approach, and in order to allow information to be obtained about quantum systems that are both pre- and post-selected, Yakir Aharonov, David Albert and Lev Vaidman developed the theory of weak values.\n\nIn TSVF, causality is time-symmetric; that is, the usual chain of causality is not simply reversed. Rather, TSVF combines causality both from the past (forward causation) and the future (backwards causation, or retrocausality).\n\nSimilarly as the de Broglie–Bohm theory, TSVF yields the same predictions as standard quantum mechanics. Lev Vaidman emphasizes that TSVF fits very well with Hugh Everett's many-worlds interpretation.\n\nThe two-state vector formalism has similarities with the transactional interpretation of quantum mechanics proposed by John G. Cramer in 1986, although Ruth Kastner has argued that the two interpretations (Transactional and Two-State Vector) have important differences as well. It shares the property of time symmetry with the Wheeler–Feynman absorber theory by Richard Feynman and John Archibald Wheeler and with the \"time–symmetric quantum mechanics\" of K. B. Wharton.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10766361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10766361", "title": "Unicolor cribo", "text": "Unicolor cribo\n\nThe unicolor cribo (\"Drymarchon melanurus unicolor\") is a Central American subspecies of the cribo snakes. The eastern indigo snake, \"Drymarchon corais couperi\" is another species of this genus. Until recently the unicolor cribo was considered a subspecies of the same species as the indigo snake \"Drymarchon corais unicolor\".\n\nUnlike the indigo snake, which is dark blue to almost black, the unicolor cribo has a yellow or golden color with black facial and neck bar-like markings. \n\nThis snake reaches a length of over nine feet. It is terrestrial and diurnal. It can be found in marshes, swamps, and riverbeds. The unicolor cribo is non-venomous. It bites its prey without coiling around it. It pins its prey, crushing it, and then swallows it whole. Its prey consists of other snakes, including venomous snakes, small mammals, small birds, lizards, frogs, fish, and other small vertebrate animals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8926096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8926096", "title": "Zanzibar servaline genet", "text": "Zanzibar servaline genet\n\nThe Zanzibar servaline genet (\"Genetta servalina archeri\") is a recently discovered subspecies of servaline genet endemic to Unguja Island in the Tanzanian archipelago of Zanzibar. Its conservation status is uncertain.\n\nThe closest known relative of the Zanzibar servaline genet is Lowe's servaline genet, \"G. s. lowei\", a subspecies which is found in the Eastern Arc Mountains of mainland Tanzania. These two animals have presumably been evolving independently since at least the end of the last ice age, when Unguja was separated from continental Africa by rising sea levels. The survival of the servaline genet on the island parallels that of the endemic Zanzibar leopard, and the Zanzibar red colobus.\n\nAlthough the servaline was known to rural Zanzibaris, zoologists remained unaware of its existence until the last decade of the 20th century. In 1995 Tony Archer, a wildlife consultant working in Zanzibar, acquired a dried skin and skull in the village of Kitogani, in south-central Unguja. This specimen was subsequently described as a new subspecies of servaline genet (\"G. s. archeri\"), named in honour of Archer.\n\nIn January 2003 live Zanzibar servaline genets were photographed for the first time in nearby Jozani-Chwaka Bay National Park. Camera traps yielded pictures of servalines at four locations, two in groundwater forest in the heart of the park and two in dry scrub to the north-east. These photographs provided new information about the distribution of the genet and its physical characteristics.\n"}
