{"id": "13893433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13893433", "title": "Bloggingheads.tv", "text": "Bloggingheads.tv\n\nBloggingheads.tv (sometimes abbreviated \"bhtv\") is a political, world events, philosophy, and science video blog discussion site in which the participants take part in an active back and forth conversation via webcam which is then broadcast online to viewers. The site was started by the journalist Robert Wright (\"The Evolution of God\", \"\", ) and the blogger and journalist Mickey Kaus on November 1, 2005. (Kaus has since dropped out of operational duties of the site as he didn't want his frequent linking to be seen as a conflict of interest.) Most of the earlier discussions posted to the site involved one or both of those individuals, but since has grown to include a total of over one thousand individual contributors, mostly journalists, academics, scientists, authors, well known political bloggers, and other notable individuals.\n\nUnregistered users are able to view all of the videos which are contained on the site, while free registration is required to comment on the individual discussions, or participate in the forums.\n\nBloggingheads discussions are conducted via webcam between two (or more) people, and can be viewed online in Flash format, or downloaded as WMV video files, MP4 video files, or MP3 sound files. New diavlogs are generally posted daily, and are all archived for future viewing. The diavlogs are generally broken up into a series of topics and subtopics a few minutes in length, links to which are placed below the video window to allow viewers to navigate to a given topic if they do not wish to view the whole discussion.\n\nMost of the discussions posted to Bloggingheads.tv involve well known (or semi-well known) journalists, bloggers, science writers, scientists, philosophers, book authors, or other specialists in segments of current world events. Many of the discussions are of a political nature or are related to the current political environment. Those with differing points of view are often matched against one another. Diavlogs involving guests appearing for the first time often take the form of an interview, more often than that of a discussion, with a longtime Bloggingheads contributor playing the role of interviewer.\n\nAlthough most episodes and matchups do not occur on any kind of a regular basis, there are a few notable exceptions to this. There is a frequent (previously biweekly and weekly, but now less frequent) diavlog matchup between the two co-founders of Bloggingheads.tv, Robert Wright and Mickey Kaus, generally related to politics in some form, that usually occurs on either Wednesday or Thursday. While some of the other diavloggers are frequently matched against each other (e.g. David Corn & James Pinkerton) there is usually not a regularly scheduled time at which they take place.\n\"Science Saturday\" was the name given to the weekly episode appearing on Saturday that was always science related. Its last episode was released on December 24, 2011. It usually (but not always) involved either one or both of the science writers John Horgan and George Johnson. Many well-known people in the science community were a part of Science Saturday, including Michael Shermer of Skeptic Magazine, biologist PZ Myers, Craig Venter of the Human Genome Project, aging researcher and biogerentologist Aubrey de Grey, and philosopher David Chalmers, among many others. However, in September 2009, four high-profile science bloggers who had previously participated in Bloggingheads.tv discussions publicly distanced themselves from the site and stated they would no longer agree to appear in Bloggingheads.tv segments. The scientists – Sean Carroll, Carl Zimmer, Phil Plait and PZ Myers – all criticized what they claimed was a policy by Bloggingheads.tv to provide a platform for the anti-scientific ideology, Creationism without an opposing point of view for balance. PZ Myers said: \"[Bloggingheads.tv] was setting up crackpots with softball interviews that made them look reasonable, because their peculiar ideas were never confronted.\"\n\n\"The Week in Blog\" was a weekly segment which normally appeared on the site on Fridays. Its last episode was released on March 7, 2012. The format was to discuss what has showed up on the past week on both liberal and conservative blogs, from both a liberal and conservative viewpoint. The three regular hosts of \"TWIB\" were Bill Scher of \"Liberal Oasis\", Kristin Soltis of the Winston Group, and Matt Lewis of \"The Daily Caller\". Original host Conn Carroll of The Heritage Foundation stepped aside in early 2009. Guests who appeared on the show are Armando Llorens (of Daily Kos), Amanda Carpenter, and Nate Silver (of FiveThirtyEight) among many others.\n\nOn November 1, 2005, the site launched, with Robert Wright and Mickey Kaus as the only two initial participants in the video discussions. The site has since featured more than one thousand other diavloggers.\n\nOn October 18, 2006, a site redesign was launched, with a revised home page and improved functionality: ability to comment on diavlogs was added, and to participate in forum discussions.\n\nIn January 2007, it was announced that cable TV pioneer and C-SPAN founding chairman Bob Rosencrans, with a loose network of others, would become an angel investor of Bloggingheads.tv. The infusion of cash kicked off a dramatic expansion of the site's content, and a corresponding growth in viewers.\n\nOn March 24, 2007, in a diavlog between Garance Franke-Ruta and Ann Althouse, Althouse became quite animated and angry (to the point of yelling) over a comment Franke-Ruta made (in reference to an earlier controversy involving Jessica Valenti and former US president Bill Clinton) referred to as an on-air \"meltdown\" by some. This led to many blog posts and news stories in the following days on both the initial controversy and Althouse's on air behavior.\n\nOn October 13, 2007, a conversion to Flash format from the initial Windows Media format took place.\n\nOn October 24, 2007, Bloggingheads.tv entered into a relationship with \"The New York Times\", whereby selected video segments from the Bloggingheads site would appear in the \"Videos\" section on the Times website, under the Opinion subsection.\n\nOn December 13, 2007, a site redesign took place which removed the familiar green pages in favor of a more \"Web 2.0\"-look, featuring more user generated content, new navigation, new forum software for the \"comments\" section, and other updated features.\n\nIn 2008, several new segments and diavloggers were added or made more regular, including \"Free Will\", \"This Week in Blog\", and \"UN Plaza\". Other updates and tweaks to the site, such as the addition of the MP4 video format were also gradually phased in.\n\nTraditional media outlets, such at \"The New York Times\" and others, have written mostly favorable reviews of Bloggingheads.tv. Stories are also often written about individuals who take part in the video discussions, as they are often well known individuals in the scientific, academic, journalism, or blogosphere community.\n\nThe majority of coverage of the site, however, has been in the form of blog coverage sometimes on the form of the blog of the person participating in the Bloggingheads discussion, and sometimes in the form of other blogs.\n\nSome events and personality appearances on Bloggingheads.tv have led to larger than usual amounts of media coverage, such as the March 24, 2007 Ann Althouse controversy described above, and the appearance of Andrew Sullivan on December 26, 2006 and January 1, 2007, when he discussed in the most clear terms up to that point his reversal of viewpoint on the Iraq War, and his plea of apology for supporting it in the first place.\n\nThe term \"diavlog\" (sometimes written \"dia-vlog\" by some bloggers) means a type of video blog (or \"vlog\") generally in which two people participate, as contrasted with a (mono)vlog in which one contributor is featured. The word \"diavlog\" is a portmanteau of the phrase \"dialog video weblog\" (or, alternately, \"video weblog dialog\"). The diavlog format is most popular for political, world events, or other types of conversational video blog discussions in which two (or more) people are actively participating in a real-time, give-and-take discussion of ideas.\n\nThe term \"diavlog\" was first adopted and put into wide use by Bloggingheads.tv contributors, (initially by Robert Wright and Mickey Kaus), though its original coinage is subject to debate. The term is widely used both by people on air, as well as commentors, refer to a specific conversation.\n\nAlthough initially coined on the Bloggingheads site, the term has come to be used in other parts of the blogosphere and among journalists who frequently (or infrequently) participate in the encounters.\n\nThe term is sometimes spelled \"diavlogue\" by those outside the United States. (see: American and British English spelling differences)\n\nDingalink is a direct link to a specific place in a video. (a beginning time and an end time) Dingalinks have the ability for users to direct viewers directly to a relevant part of a video, without the viewer having to watch the video in its entirety. They are used with video blogs when others who write blogs, articles, emails, etc., have the aim of discussing only one segment of an entire video post. The term was named after Bloggingheads.tv's technical advisor Greg Dingle, who initially developed the technology.\n\nOn Bloggingheads.tv, direct linking is often useful in the discussion surrounding a specific \"diavlog\" to refer to a particular point (or points) in the discussion to clarify what is being commented on. The direct linking can be automatically generated from the Bloggingheads Flash video player, through the adjustment of the beginning and end of the video that one might want to display. (Start/End time can also be manually edited once the code is generated.)\n\nEmbedding of video is a feature that was added to Bloggingheads.tv in 2008 as a consequence of converting to Flash Video. It allows for bloggers and other websites to embed the video player into their blog or website so that the content can be viewed locally instead of the need to visit the actual Bloggingheads.tv site. This feature is similar to the YouTube and Google Video (among others) feature which had previously become prevalent on the internet.\n\nDue to the fairly limited medium of using webcams to record the video used in the Bloggingheads.tv episodes, a variety of visual aids and enhancements are sometimes added to the program by the participants. Generally this takes the form of holding up books, newspapers, or other objects that are being discussed to the camera, but sometimes it involves other, more exotic, items to either enhance a point or add something to the diavlog.\n\nMickey Kaus is particularly known for using visual aids such as masks (of Al Gore, Laura Bush, and others), an Ann Coulter doll, and perhaps most recognizably, a stuffed moose doll. According to Kaus, \"deploying the moose\" symbolizes Pinch Sulzberger's idea of \"the unaddressed important issue\" similar to the \"elephant in the room.\" Robert Wright has since received a stuffed moose of his own.\n\nAlso, various live animals (usually pets) have been displayed onscreen during the course of conversations. Wright has displayed his family pet, a poodle mix named Frazier, several times. (Frazier was popular enough to subsequently get his own Facebook and Twitter profiles.) Other people have had their cat displayed onscreen, such as that of Ana Marie Cox, John McWhorter, and Jonah Goldberg.\n\nOther interesting onscreen visual aids that have been employed include the use of a kazoo by Matt Welch, hats by various people (e.g. a Santa hat by Jonah Goldberg, and a New Years Day hat by Mickey Kaus), and the display of a sextant by Robert Farley in a discussion on pirates.\n\nWhile many of the initial diavlogs featured Wright and Kaus exclusively, other regular participants at Bloggingheads.tv have grown to include many differing ideologies and viewpoints, politically, scientifically, and philosophically. Regular contributors include Ann Althouse, Peter Beinart, Rosa Brooks, Jonathan Chait, David Corn, Ross Douthat, Daniel Drezner, Conor Friedersdorf, Jonah Goldberg, John Horgan, Ezra Klein, Eli Lake, Glenn Loury, Megan McArdle, John McWhorter, James Pinkerton, Mark Schmitt and Matthew Yglesias, among many others.\n\nApart from the regular contributors, a host of well known occasional guests have appeared, usually in the form of being interviewed. Among others, the political scientist Francis Fukuyama talked about his book \"America at the Crossroads\"; the Israeli journalist Gershom Gorenberg discussed his book \"The Accidental Empire\" (about the history of the settlements); \"The Washington Post\" columnist Joel Achenbach on an article of his about global-warming skeptics (among other topics); Andrew Sullivan on his book \"The Conservative Soul\"; biogerentologist Aubrey de Grey on how to defeat the \"disease\" of aging; philosopher David Chalmers; Nate Silver (of FiveThirtyEight.com); and Craig Venter, director of the Human Genome Project, who spoke of future scientific innovations he is currently pursuing.\n\n"}
{"id": "56480669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56480669", "title": "Bukalasa Agricultural Training Institute", "text": "Bukalasa Agricultural Training Institute\n\nBukalasa Agricultural Training Centre (BATI), also Bukalasa Agricultural College, is a public vocational training institute operated and administered by the Uganda Ministry of Education and Sports (MoES).\n\nThe institute is located in the neighborhood of Bukalasa, approximately , Bukalasa is approximately , by road, north of Kampala, the capital and largest city of Uganda. The geographical coordinates of the institute are:0°19'49.0\"N, 32°36'06.0\"E (Latitude:0.330278; Longitude:32.601667).\n\nThe institute was established by the government of Uganda in 1920, as a cotton research centre. Over the years, through mergers with other institutions, the centre was transformed into a comprehensive agricultural research and training institute. In 1952, BATI began offering a two-year certificate course and a diploma course was introduced in 1960. The two main challenges that face the institution are insufficient classrooms and insufficient mechanized equipment for use in teaching modern agricultural methods.\n\nThe institute offers the following courses:\n(a) Diploma in Crop Production and Management (b) Diploma in Animal Production and Management (c) Diploma in Agribusiness Management (d) Diploma in Floriculture.\n\n(a) Certificate in Crop Production and Management (b) Certificate in Animal Production and Management (c) Certificate in Floriculture and (d) Certificate in Apiary.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32270355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32270355", "title": "CRX10", "text": "CRX10\n\nThe CRX10 is an autonomous mobile robot platform for education, training and research that was developed by South Korean robotics company CNRobot. CRX10 supports MSRDS, SPL (Simple Programming Language), AVR (C languages) and Android programming languages. The CRX10 was unveiled on May, 2011.\n\nThe robot dimension is 192x197x79.5 (LxWxH). CRX10 comes packaged with 7 IR floor sensors, 3 obstacle detection PSD sensors and 4 audio sensors. Robot communication is possible via cable (UART), Wi-Fi (Bluetooth) with GAP and SPP profile or dipole antenna with communication distance is more than 100 m. CRX10 supports TTL serial interface. \n\nThe CRX brain is based on Atmega128 and Atmega88 Dual Processor. The robot operates either with Lithium-ion battery and can be recharged regularly from a wall plug or 6 cells primary batteries. \nCRX10 can be controlled via Android-based smartphone. Robot has 4 buttons on the top of the CRX10’s bumper that can be assigned to different custom-defined programs or actions. \n\nRobot platform can be transformed from 4 wheels to 2 wheels drive, has double-wide wheels, 3 rubber ring-shaped coverings fit around each wheel rim to enable a close contact with the ground, wheel diameter is 64 mm. Robot speed is 1 meter per second.\n\nDot Matrix 8x8 on the top of CRX10 body can be used for displaying different graphic, emoticons or characters. \nThe robot comes fully assembled and tested with 9 ready to use robot activities or services in VPL and educational materials for teachers. \n\nCRX10 can carry objects using a detachable payload tray that may weigh about 10 kg.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1061954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1061954", "title": "Cambridge Assessment International Education", "text": "Cambridge Assessment International Education\n\nCambridge Assessment International Education (CAIE or simply Cambridge, formerly known as CIE - (University of) Cambridge International Examinations) is a provider of international qualifications, offering examinations and qualifications to 10,000 schools in more than 160 countries. \n\nThe board of education is a division of Cambridge Assessment, the trading name of the University of Cambridge Local Examinations Syndicate (UCLES), founded in 1858 as a not-for-profit non-teaching department of the University of Cambridge.\n\nCambridge offers primarily school-leaving qualifications for university entrance such as the Cambridge International General Certificate of Education – Advanced Level (Cambridge International GCE A-Levels). In addition, Cambridge provides Key Stage examinations for primary and secondary schools internationally.\n\nCambridge qualifications are recognised for admission by UK universities (including Oxford and Cambridge) as well as universities in the United States (Stanford and all Ivy League universities), Canada, European Union, Middle East, West Asia, New Zealand, India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Nepal as well as in other countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "45096016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45096016", "title": "Chocolatier 2: Secret Ingredients", "text": "Chocolatier 2: Secret Ingredients\n\nChocolatier 2: Secret Ingredients is a casual strategy video game, developed by Big Splash Games LLC and published by PlayFirst. The game was released on 2008 for the Mac OS X and Windows. In Chocolatier 2: Secret Ingredients, players are able to create chocolate by combining ingredients, however you have to know the exact combination to get the secret recipe. It is the second video game in the \"Chocolatier\" series.\n\nAfter becoming an Entrepreneur, players can now buy the Chocolate Tasting Laboratory located in Buenos Aires. In the lab, players can create chocolate recipes using the ingredients slot, however, you need to know the exact combination of the secret recipe. After combining won't have access to the laboratory for a week because they are still cleaning test tubes, etc.\n\nPlayers can purchase ingredients all over the world, some of the market sells mostly sugars and cacao beans. Certain ingredients and beans are only available in certain places in the world, for example the Wild Island Berries can only be purchased at the Bouma Bure in Fiji, a secret port. Ingredients can also be rewarded to players if they finish certain quests.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>Web Play isn't included with the BigFish, RealArcade/GameHouse, etc. versions of the game.\n\nThere are three different minigames in Chocolatier 2: Secret Ingredients:\n\n"}
{"id": "12917742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12917742", "title": "City University College (Ethiopia)", "text": "City University College (Ethiopia)\n\nCity University College is a tertiary institution in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.\n\nIt provides higher education in the disciplines of Accounting and Finance, Applied Computer Science, Management, Economics and Law. \n\nThe university college has three campuses: \n\nThe three faculties are\n\n"}
{"id": "10113823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10113823", "title": "Coronet Films", "text": "Coronet Films\n\nCoronet Films (also known as Coronet Instructional Media Inc.) was a leading producer and distributor of many American documentary shorts shown in public schools, mostly in the 16mm format, from the 1940s through the 1980s (when the videocassette recorder replaced the motion picture projector as the key audio-visual aid). The company, whose library is owned and distributed by the Phoenix Learning Group, Inc., covered a wide range of subjects in zoology, science, geography, history and math, but is mostly remembered today for its post-World War II social guidance films featuring topics such as dating, family life, courtesy, and citizenship.\n\nDavid A. mart established the company with his brothers Alfred and John in 1934, but the first titles registered for copyright date from 1941 (beginning with \"Aptitudes and Occupations\"). Over time, a studio was set up in Glenview, Illinois. Smart was the publisher of \"Esquire\" and \"Coronet\" magazines, and the film company was named for the latter. The film company outlived the magazine; it ceased publication in 1976.\n\nIn addition to military instructional films produced during the war, the company was successful in its early years with full color films spotlighting common birds like the ruby-throated hummingbird (a 1942 release), many of these filmed by Olin Sewall Pettingill Jr. and Dr. Arthur A. Allen. One hallmark was that many titles were shot in color Kodachrome a few years ahead of competing classroom film companies. Production costs were kept under control by making both color and black and white prints available and charging a much lower fee for the latter. However, many school educators economized so fewer color prints are viewable today.\nAfter David Smart’s death in 1952, his brother John, and Jack Abraham took over. Coronet’s output had surpassed in quantity (if not always in quality) that of the classroom film industry’s leader, Encyclopædia Britannica Films (initially ERPI Classroom Films), with an eleven-minute or longer film completed practically every week. While their biggest rival strove to be more “cinematic” with very creative takes on science and geography subjects to make them as entertaining for students as possible, the 1950s and 1960s Coronet films often had a dry, lecture-like tone to their commentary. However, there were some well-made travelogues, boasting good cinematography, in addition to an annual quota of animal-interest topics. Starting in 1957, a \"Special Productions\" unit headed by Bob Kohl and Tom Riha added some more ambitious and prestigious independent productions to Coronet's more economically made \"in-house\" titles in its catalog.\n\nCoronet was still very active during the 1973-4 school year, when it placed over 70 titles for evaluation with Project METRO of the Capitol Region Education Council (CREC), in central Connecticut. Titles included \"A Is For Alphabet\", \"Color, Color Everywhere\", \"Dating Scene\", and \"Understanding Shakespeare: His Stagecraft\".\n\nThe 1970s were a creative period for the company, despite the fact that 16mm educational films were gradually replaced by video cassettes and computers as key audio-visual classroom tools a decade later. After Hal Kopel replaced Jack Abraham as general manager (around 1972), the look and style of the films received a much-needed \"facelift\" and film credits belatedly included directors and the creative personnel. (Most released previously listed only educational consultants.) This was in response to ongoing criticism that the Coronet films were too \"stodgy and unimaginative\". Many earlier titles were \"revised\" with better-produced and more-entertaining editions during this period.\n\nBy the early 1980s, however, the company was becoming more of a distributor of other company films than a producer. Sheldon Sachs became vice president in 1979 and headed a \"Perspective Films\" division to increase Coronet's distribution of outside productions, making theatrical award winners like Sparky Greene's \"American Shoeshine\" available for classroom viewing. In 1981, Coronet also acquired Centron Corporation.\n\nShortly after merging with MTI films in 1984 (with a new VP, Joel Marks), Coronet and its acquisitions were taken over by Gulf and Western Industries (but Coronet veteran Bob Kohl bought back Centron as a separate entity to run himself). Simon & Schuster, part of the conglomerate, moved the (reduced) filming facilities to New Jersey a decade later. In May 1997, Phoenix Learning Group took over the distribution rights to the Coronet catalog.\n\nBeginning with \"Shy Guy\" (1947), featuring an early appearance of a 19-year-old Dick York of Bewitched fame, the company gained considerable renewed attention for a cluster of “personal guidance” films aimed at instructing school students on how to make the best decisions. Typical titles include \"Are You Popular?\", \"Everyday Courtesy\" and \"What To Do On A Date\", along with a Korean War-period series \"Are You Ready For The Service?\"\n\nTed Peshak was a key director, although screen credit were often reserved for psychology consultants only. Many were filmed in color, but usually exist today in black and white since educators generally economized with the cheaper format available. Most were made prior to David Smart’s passing in 1952, but a few more were added as late as the 1970s, such as \"Beginning Responsibility: A Lunchroom Goes Bananas\".\n\nSince most were produced early in the post-war film boom; they were typical of the quality, production values, and content of media of the period and were subsequently often considered humorous in the context of the post mid-1960s sexual revolution.\n\nAfter the earliest films entered the public domain (a large percentage of the library is still privately owned), the films of Coronet were recognized by many as notable kitsch, especially after a few became shorts for \"Pee-wee's Playhouse\" & the cable TV show \"Mystery Science Theater 3000\" (MST3K) which mocked the films' production values and underlying messages. Shorts featured on \"Mystery Science Theater 3000\" (MST3K) include \"Are You Ready for Marriage?\" and \"What to Do on a Date\". Many of Coronet's other films were later riffed by Rifftrax, a successor to MST3K, created by former MST3K cast member Michael J. Nelson.\n\nThe company participated in a compilation spoof, titled \"The Great American Student\" (1978). Made by veteran director Mel Waskin and editor Bob Gronowski and lifting many key scenes from the older films that showcased words such as \"swell\", it was distributed like any other educational 16mm film of the period as a joke on unsuspecting libraries. According to historian Geoff Alexander, it \"is unique in the genre for its self-deprecating humor, and is a historical masterpiece.\" \n\nThe following is a select sample of important titles. See a more complete list here: List of Coronet Films\n\nSelect Coronet productions are now available as public domain resources, here are a few examples:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "428966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428966", "title": "Doctor of Medicine", "text": "Doctor of Medicine\n\nA Doctor of Medicine (MD from Latin \"Medicinae Doctor\") is a medical degree, the meaning of which varies between different jurisdictions. In countries that follow the United States system, the MD denotes a first professional graduate degree (e.g., Doctor of Jurisprudence in law) or a degree awarded upon initial graduation from medical school more closely related to a master's degree with a law and medical degree (e.g. M.D. & D.O.), but widely seen as a doctorate degree in conflict with Department of Education classification of degrees. In countries following the tradition of the United Kingdom, the MD denotes a first professional degree; and denoted as a doctorate, higher doctorate, honorary doctorate or applied clinical degree restricted to medical graduates; the equivalent first professional degree is typically titled Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery.\n\nIn 1703, the University of Glasgow's first medical graduate, Samuel Benion, was issued with the academic degree of Doctor of Medicine.\n\nUniversity medical education in England culminated with the MB qualification, and in Scotland the MD, until in the mid-19th century the public bodies who regulated medical practice at the time required practitioners in Scotland as well as England to hold the dual Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery degrees (MB BS/MBChB/MB BChir/BM BCh etc.). North American medical schools switched to the tradition of the ancient universities of Scotland and began granting the MoD title rather than the MB beginning in the late 18th century. The Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons in New York (which at the time was referred to as King's College of Medicine) was the first American university to grant the MD degree instead of the MB.\n\nEarly medical schools in North America that granted the Doctor of Medicine degrees were Columbia, Penn, Harvard, Maryland, and McGill. These first few North American medical schools that were established were (for the most part) founded by physicians and surgeons who had been trained in England and Scotland.\n\nA feminine form, \"Doctress of Medicine\" or \"Medicinae Doctrix\", was also used by the New England Female Medical College in Boston in the 1860s. In most countries having a Doctor of Medicine degree does not mean that the individual will be allowed to practice medicine. Typically a doctor must go through a residency for at least four years and take some form of licensing examination in their jurisdiction.\n\nIn Afghanistan, medical education begins after high school. No pre-medicine courses or bachelor's degree is required. Eligibility is determined through the rank applicants obtain in the public university entrance exam held every year throughout the country. Entry to medical school is competitive, and only students with the highest ranks are accepted into medical programs. The primary medical degree is completed in 7 years. According to the new medical curriculum (from 2016), during the 12th semester, medical students must complete research on a medical topic and provide a thesis as part of their training. Medical graduates are awarded a certificate in general medicine, regarded \"MD\" and validated by the \"Ministry of Higher Education of Afghanistan\". All physicians are to obtain licensing and a medical council registration number from the \"Ministry of Public Health\" before they officially begin to practice. They may subsequently specialize in a specific medical field at medical schools offering the necessary qualifications. After graduation, students may complete residency.\n\nBefore the civil wars in Afghanistan, medical education used to be taught by foreign professors or Afghan professors who studied medical education abroad. The Kabul medical institute certified the students as \"Master of Medicine\". After the civil wars, medical education has extremely changed, and the MD certification has been reduced to \"Medicine Bachelor\".\n\nIn Argentina, the First Degree of Physician or Physician Diplomate () is equivalent to the North American MD Degree with six years of intensive studies followed by usually three or four years of residency as a major specialty in a particular empiric field, consisting of internships, social services and sporadic research. Only by holding a Medical Title can the postgraduate student apply for the Doctor degree through a Doctorate in Medicine program approved by the .\n\nHistorically, Australian medical schools have followed the British tradition by conferring the degrees of Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) to its graduates whilst reserving the title of Doctor of Medicine (MD) for their research training degree, analogous to the PhD, or for their honorary doctorates. Although the majority of Australian MBBS degrees have been graduate programs since the 1990s, under the previous Australian Qualifications Framework (AQF) they remained categorized as Level 7 Bachelor's degrees together with other undergraduate programs.\n\nThe latest version of the AQF includes the new category of Level 9 Master's (Extended) degrees which permits the use of the term 'Doctor' in the styling of the degree title of relevant professional programs. As a result, various Australian medical schools have replaced their MBBS degrees with the MD to resolve the previous anomalous nomenclature. With the introduction of the Master's level MD, universities have also renamed their previous medical research doctorates. The University of Melbourne was the first to introduce the MD in 2011 as a basic medical degree, and has renamed its research degree to Doctor of Medical Science (DMedSc).\n\nAt the end of the six-year medical programs from Bulgarian medical schools, medical students are awarded the academic degree Master in Medicine and the professional title Physician - Doctor of Medicine (MD).\n\nAfter 6 years of general medical education (a foundation year plus 5 years), all students will graduate with a Bachelor of Medical Sciences (BMedSc, ), equivalent to Bachelor of Science, Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS). This degree does not allow graduates to work independently as a physician, but it is possible for those who wish to continue to master's degrees in other fields relating to medical sciences such as public health, epidemiology, biomedical science, and nutrition.\n\nMedical graduates, who wish to be fully qualified as physicians or specialists must follow the process as below:\n\n\nAll medical graduates must complete a Thesis Defense and pass the National Exit Exam () to become either GPs or medical or surgical specialists.\n\nIn China, the degree system is very similar to the UK. Students can enter medical schools after graduating from high school. Lengths of the studies vary, there are 5-year Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS), 6-year Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) with one year of hospital internship, 7-year (Masters of Medicine), and 8-year (Doctor of Medicine) programs. After a degree is acquired, one needs to pass the certification exam to be allowed to practice.\n\nIn Denmark, basic medical education and training is available at four universities: the University of Copenhagen, Aarhus University, the University of Southern Denmark and Aalborg University. The duration of basic medical education and training is six years and the course leads to the degree of Candidate of Medicine (rated equally to master's degree). Students are qualified as \"medical doctor\" (MD) after swearing the Hippocratic Oath upon graduation.\n\nMedical school is usually followed by a year of residency called basic clinical training (Danish: \"Klinisk basisuddannelse\" or KBU) which upon completion grants the right to practice medicine without supervision.\n\nAfter graduating from high school with a Baccalaureat, any student can register at a university of medicine (there are about 30 of them throughout the country). At the end of first year, an internal ranking examination takes place in each of these universities in order to implement the \"numerus clausus\". First year consists mainly of theoretical classes such as biophysics and biochemistry, anatomy, ethics or histology. Passing first year is commonly considered very challenging, requiring hard and continuous work. Each student can only try twice. For example, the Université René Descartes welcomes about 2,000 students in first year and only 300 after \"numerus clausus\".\n\nThe second and third year are usually mainly quite theoretical although the teachings are often accompanied by placements in the field (e.g., internships as nurses or in the emergency room, depending on the university).\n\nDuring fourth, fifth and sixth years, medical students get a special status called \"externe\" (In some universities, such as Pierre et Marie Curie, the \"externe\" status is given starting in the third year). They work as interns every morning at the hospital plus a few night shifts a month and study in the afternoon. Each internship lasts between three and four months and takes place in a different department. Med students get five weeks off a year.\n\nAt the end of the sixth year, they need to pass a national ranking exam, which will determine their specialty. The first student gets to choose first, then the second, et cetera. Usually, students work hard during fifth and sixth years in order to train properly for the national ranking exam. During these years, actual practice at the hospital and some theoretical courses are meant to balance the training.\nSuch externs' average wage stands between 100 and 300 euros a month.\n\nAfter that ranking exams, students can start as residents in the specialty they have been able to pick. That is the point from which they also start getting paid.\n\nTowards the end of the medical program, French medical students are provided with more responsibilities and are required to defend a thesis; however, unlike a PhD thesis, no original research is actually necessary to write an MD thesis. At the conclusion of the thesis defense, French medical students receive a State Diploma of Doctor of Medicine (MD, ). Every new doctor must then proceed to a Diploma of Specialised Studies (DES, ) to mark their specialty. Some students may also receive a Diploma of Complementary Specialized Studies (DESC, ).\n\nAfter at least six years of medical school, the students graduate with a final federal medical exam '. Graduates receive their license to practice medicine and the professional title of physician ('). About 80% of them additionally obtain the academic MD-like degree Doctor of Medicine (Dr. Med.). The corresponding \"doctoral\" dissertations are often written alongside undergraduate study and are comparable to a master's thesis in science; but students are only allowed to finish the dissertation process after their studies. Obtaining the title is a practical necessity because many ordinary people incorrectly assume that only a doctor is allowed to practice medicine. The European Research Council decided in 2010 that those Dr. med. doctorates do not meet the international standards of a PhD research degree.\n\nThe MBBS (Bachelor of Medicine/Bachelor of Surgery) degree represents the first (undergraduate) level of training required to be licensed as a physician (other degrees in alternative medicine are present like BAMS, BHMS, BSMS etc.) and the MS or MD degree is a postgraduate degree, representative of specialty training. The equivalent training in the US or Canada would be the completion of a medical (post-graduate) degree. Eligibility for the MS or MD course is restricted to medical graduates holding the MBBS degree.\n\nThe MBBS course is for five and a half years, and training imparted is as follows:\n\n\nAfter three years of study and the successful completion of an examination, which includes both theoretical and practical elements, in a pre-clinical or clinical subject of a non-surgical nature [e.g. Anatomy (since the subject deals with study of anatomy through dissecting cadavers, thus given an MD degree), Physiology, Pharmacology, Internal Medicine, Pediatrics, Pathology, Microbiology] the candidate receives MD degree, whereas in a clinical subject of a surgical nature (e.g. General Surgery, Orthopaedics, Obstetrics/Gynaecology, Ophthalmology), the candidate receives the equivalent degree Master of Surgery (MS).\n\nA second alternate qualification termed DNB [Diplomate of National Board], is considered equivalent to the MD and MS degrees. This can be obtained by passing the exam conducted by the National Board of Examinations after completing 3 years of post-MBBS residency training in teaching hospitals recognised by the board. The College of Physicians & Surgeons of Bombay, India (Established 1912) also awards higher postgraduate degrees in clinical and pre-clinical specialties, called FCPS; it involves three years of study and the successful completion of an examination, which includes both theoretical and practical elements, and a research thesis and a viva. The FCPS is representative of specialty clinical training, and equivalent to MD/MS/DNB/Ph.D Medical in Medical Doctorate in other parts of the world. Until 2007, the Government of India and the Medical Council of India recognised the FCPS qualification - since then, this is being done by State Medical Councils.\n\nAfter obtaining the first postgraduate degree, that is MD/MS/FCPS/DNB/Ph.D Medical, one can go for further specialisation in medical or surgical fields. This involves a highly competitive entrance examination. This course has three years of additional training and requires the submission of a dissertation (thesis). This is considered a clinical doctorate as the focus is on preapring a super-specialist with adequate clinical as well as research training. After the dissertation is approved and the exit examination (theory and practical) is cleared, the degree awarded is DM (Doctor of Medicine), Ph.D Medical . Based on the specific field of training, the degree awarded is DM in Cardiology, Neurology, Nephrology, Gastroenterology, Neuroradiology, Critical Care, Pulmonology, Hematology, Medical Oncology, Cardio-anaesthesia, Clinical Pharmacology, Pediatric Critical Care, Pediatric Neurology, Neonataology, Pediatric Gastroenterology, Neuroanaesthesia, etc. For surgical superspecialities the degree awarded is MCh (Magister Chirurgiae), like MCh in Cardio-thoracic and Vascular Surgery, Endocrine Surgery, Neurosurgery, Surgical Gastroenterology, Urology, Plastic Surgery, Pediatric Surgery etc. DM and MCh are the clinical equivalent of a Doctorate degree. A third alternate qualification is DNB (superspecialties), offered by National Board of Examinations, like DNB in Cardiology, Neurology, Cardiac Surgery, Neurosurgery.\n\nFollowing DM or MCh, one can further go for postdoctoral fellowship programs of one-year duration in specific subspecialties like Cardiac Electrophysiology, Invasive cardiology, Pediatric cardiology, Epilepsy, stroke, electroencephalography, movement disorders, neuromuscular disorders, cerebrovascular surgery, skull base surgery, neurocritical care, pediatric cardiac surgery etc. offered by prestigious government institutes and abroad.\n\nIn Indonesia, the title of \"dokter\" (dr.) is awarded after a Medical student received their Bachelor in Medicine (\"Sarjana Kedokteran\"; S. Ked) after 3-3.5 years of study (at least) and 1.5–2 years of clinical course in university hospitals. After a medical student finished those five years of study, they need to take \"Uji Kompetensi Mahasiswa Program Profesi Dokter\" (UKMPPD). If they pass the test, they can take Hippocrates Oath and the title of \"Dokter\" (dr.) is entitled before their name. Then they need to take a year-long internship course in primary health care clinics (also known as Puskesmas) or primary hospitals all over the country to practice as general practitioner under supervision of senior doctors. Those who wished to further their study into specialties can take graduate course of medicine of their preference and will be entitled with \"Specialist of ...\" after their name (e.g.: Sp.A for \"Spesialis Anak\" = Pediatrician). Graduate course of medicine is equal with residency program which is required the candidates to study for four years and hospital internship. Note that \"dr.\" is used for medical graduates, while Dr. (or wrongfully DR., \"Doktor\") is used for PhD holders.\n\nIn Iran, Medical education begins after high school. No pre-med course or BSc degree is required. The eligibility is determined through the rank applicants obtain in the public university entrance exam being held every year throughout the country. The entry to medical school is competitive and only students with the highest rank are accepted into medical program. The primary medical degree is completed in 7–7.5 years. On the final years (last 1–2 years) medical students need to do a research on a medical topic and provide thesis as part of their trainings. Medical graduates are awarded a certificate in general medicine, called \"Professional Doctorate in Medicine\" validated by the \"Ministry of Health and Medical Education of Iran\". All physicians will obtain license and medical council registration number from the \"Medical Council of Iran\" before they officially begin to practice. They may subsequently specialize in a specific medical field at medical schools offering the necessary qualifications.\n\nThere are five university medical schools in Israel, including the Technion in Haifa, Ben Gurion University in Be'er Sheva, Tel Aviv University, the Hebrew University in Jerusalem and the Medical school of the Bar-Ilan University in Safed. They all follow the European 6-year model except Bar-Ilan University, which has a four-year program similar to the US system. However, as of 2009, Tel Aviv University has introduced a four-year program similar to the US system for students with a bachelor's degree in certain biological sciences. The entrance requirements of the various schools of medicine are very strict. Israeli students require a high school Baccalaureate average above 100 and psychometric examination grade over 740. The demand for medical education is strong and growing, and there is a lack of doctors in Israel. The Technion Medical School, Ben Gurion University, and Tel Aviv University Sackler Faculty of Medicine offer 4-year MD programs for American students who have American college degrees and have taken the MCAT interested in completing rigorous medical education in Israel before returning to the US or Canada. In Israel, the degree of Doctor of Medicine (MD) is considered to be equivalent to a Master's degree academically and legally.\n\nIn Latvia, the duration of basic medical education is six years and the course leads to the degree of Doctor of Medicine.\n\nIn Malaysia, MD are awarded by both private and public universities, mostly are trained as a 5-year course, however with the establishment of Perdana University, it became the first university in Malaysia to provide a 5-year graduate entry course. Examples of universities in Malaysia offering the M.D degree are University Sains Malaysia, National University of Malaysia, University Putra Malaysia, UCSI University, etc.\n\nIn the Netherlands and Belgium, medical students receive six years of university education prior to their graduation.\n\nIn the Netherlands specifically, prospective students can apply for medical education directly after finishing the highest level of secondary school, vwo; previous undergraduate education is not a precondition for admittance.\nMedical students receive three years of preclinical training, followed by three years of clinical training (\"co-assistentschappen\", or \"co-schappen\") in hospitals. At one medical faculty (Utrecht University), clinical training already begins in the third year of medical school. After 6 years, students graduate as \"Basisartsen\" (\"base physician\"). As a result of the Bologna process, medical students in the Netherlands receive a bachelor's degree (BSc) concluding successfully three years of medical university curriculum, and a master's degree (MSc) upon successful graduation. After graduation, physicians can apply for, and complete a R&D based doctorate, earning them a PhD in Medicine. Contrary to popular (international) daily use, the title \"MD\" does not exist, is not granted, nor recognised for Dutch physicians. Furthermore, no specific notation signifying board registration exists for physicians in the Netherlands.\n\nBelgian medical education is much more based on theoretical knowledge than the Dutch system. In the first three years, which are very theoretical and lead to a university bachelor's degree, general scientific courses are taken such as chemistry, biophysics, physiology, biostatistics, anatomy, virology, etc. To enter the bachelor course in Flanders, prospective students have to pass an exam, as a result of the \"numerus clausus\".\n\nAfter the bachelor courses, students are allowed to enter the 'master in medicine' courses, which consist of three years of theoretical and clinical study. In general, the first two master years are very theoretical and teach the students human pathology, diseases and pharmacology. The third year is a year full of internships in a wide range of specialities in different clinics. The seventh, final year serves as a kind of 'pre-specialization' year in which the students are specifically trained in the specialty they wish to pursue after medical school. This contrasts with the Dutch approach, in which graduates are literally 'basic doctors' (\"basisartsen\") who have yet to decide on a specialty.\n\nIn Pakistan the MD is a higher doctorate, awarded by medical universities based on successful completion of a residency program of four to six years' duration in a university hospital.Many universities are offering MD. Parallel to MD, MS is a higher doctorate awarded on successful completion of four to six years' duration of a residency program in surgical field\n\nIn the Philippines, the MD is a first professional degree in medicine. It is attained by either completing a 4-year degree or a 5-year degree (with internship included) from an accredited institution by the Association of Philippine Medical Colleges and the Commission on Higher Education. An MD degree does not permit the practice of medicine but qualifies the degree-holder to apply for registration to the Professional Regulatory Commission. Registration to the Commission through completion of internship and examinations will grant the privilege of practicing medicine in the Philippines.\n\nRomanian medical programs last for 6 years (including clinical practice), which is the long-cycle first professional degree and concludes with a final licensing examination (licența), based on the dissertation of the student's original research. The degree awarded is 'Doctor-Medic' and graduates are entitled to use the title \"Dr.\"\n\nThe American Duke University has a medical school based in Singapore (Duke-NUS Medical School), and follows the North-American model of styling its first professional degree \"Doctor of Medicine\" (\"MD\"), consid. By contrast, the Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine at the National University of Singapore confers \"MB BS\" as the first professional degree.\n\nIn South Korea, there is a Medical Doctor (MD) license.\n\nThe medical educations in South Korea (Republic of Korea) are 6 or 4 years in duration, 6-year courses starting right after high schools, and 4-year course starting after 4-year's university education(To start the 4-year course, the student needs a bachelor's degree). The first 2 years in the 6-year system is composed of basic sciences and liberal art courses.\n\nIn Sri Lanka, the MD degree is a higher postgraduate degree that is awarded by the Postgraduate Institute of Medicine after completion of a postgraduate course, examinations and speciality training. The MD degree in Sri Lanka is representative of specialty training in clinical, para clinical, and preventive medicine (e.g., general medicine, cardiology, nephrology, oncology, para clinical such as microbiology, haematology and preventive such as community medicine). Entry for the MD course is open only for medical graduates holding the MBBS degree (with a duration of five and a half years), and training is obtained in medical disciplines that are non-surgical in nature (e.g., internal medicine, radiology, pathology, etc.) After three or four years of study and the successful completion of an examination with written as well as cases and via examinations, the MD degree in the respective field of study is awarded. In community medicine and medical administration, part I examination consists of a theoretical exam while the degree is conferred after completion of a thesis as a PhD. This thesis has to be completed within a period of five years. After successfully defending the academic thesis, the MD degree is conferred to the candidate. The MD degree holder is certified as a board certified specialist by the respective board of study of the Postgraduate Institute of Medicine after he or she undergoes 2–4 years of local and foreign training depending on the specialty/subspecialty selected.\n\nIn Ayurveda, Bachelor of Ayurveda, Medicine and Surgery B.A.M.S in Unani, Bachelor of Unani Medicine and Surgery BUMS in Sidha, Bachelor of Sidha Medicine and Surgery BSMS are the basic qualification for practicing Ayurveda, Unani,&Sidha. The B.A.M.S, B.U.M.S, and B.S.M.S are 6-year degree (including internship) courses accepted by the University Grants Commission (Sri Lanka). M.D (Ayu)(Ayurveda vachaspati) can be done after B.A.M.S, as a specialty, and it takes 3 years (including submission of a thesis) to complete the course. Ayurveda M.D (Ayu) (Ayurveda vachaspati) is a master's degree accepted by University Grants Commission (Sri Lanka), after completion of MPhil can follow Ph.D. level programmes in Sri Lanka.\n\nMedical education in Sweden begins with a five-and-a-half-year undergraduate university program leading to the degree \"Master of Science in Medicine\" (). Following this, the National Board of Health and Welfare requires a minimum of 18 months of clinical internship () before granting a medical license () to be fully qualified as the Swedish equivalent to Medical Doctor (MD).\n\nThis internship consists of surgery (3–6 months), internal medicine (3–6 months), psychiatry (three months) and family medicine (six months). Upon receiving a license to practice, a physician is able to apply for a post to start specialist training. There are currently 52 recognised medical specialties in Sweden. The specialist training has a duration of minimum five years, which upon completion grants formal qualification as a specialist.\n\nIn Taiwan, the MD is a first professor awarded professional degree that goes up and beyond the limits of upper education.\n\nThe Thai medical education is 6 years system, consisting of 1 year in basic-science, 2 years in pre-clinical training, and 3 years for clinical training. Upon graduation, all medical students must pass national medical licensing examinations and a university-based comprehensive test. After medical school, newly graduated doctor are under contract to spend a year of internship and 2 years of tenure in rural areas before they are eligible for any other residency positions or specialized training. The students will receive Doctor of Medicine (MD) degree. However, the degree is equivalent to master's degree in Thailand. Specialty training after the MD degree requires at least 4–6 years residency program in the training university hospitals and must pass the board examination. Board certified specialized degree is equivalent to doctorate degree.\n\nIn Tunisia, education is free for all Tunisian citizens and for foreigners who have scholarships. The oldest Medical school is a faculty of the University of Tunis. There are four medicine faculties situated in the major cities of Tunis, Sfax, Sousse and Monastir. Admission is bound to the success and score in the baccalaureate examination. Admission score threshold is very high, based on competition among all applicants throughout the nation. Medical school curriculum consists of five years. The first two years are medical theory, containing all basic sciences related to medicine, and the last three years consists of clinical issues related to all medical specialties. During these last three years, the student gets the status of \"Externe\". The student has to attend at the university hospital every day, rotating around all wards. Every period is followed by a clinical exam regarding the student's knowledge in that particular specialty. After those five years, there are two years on internship, in which the student is a physician but under the supervision of the chief doctor; the student rotates over the major and most essential specialties during period of four months each. After that, student has the choice of either passing the residency national exam or extending his internship for another year, after which he gains the status of family physician. The residency program consists of four to five years in the specialty he qualifies, depending on his score in the national residency examination under the rule of highest score chooses first. Whether the student chooses to be a family doctor or a specialist, he has to write a doctoral thesis, which he will be defending in front of a jury, after which he gains his degree of \"Doctor of Medicine (MD)\".\n\nThe entry-level first professional degree in these countries for the practice of medicine is that of Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS, MB, MB BCh BAO, BMBS, MBBChir, or MBChB). This degree typically requires between four and six years of study and clinical training, and is equivalent to the North American MD degree. Due to the UK code for higher education, first degrees in medicine comprise an integrated programme of study and professional practice spanning several levels. These degrees may retain, for historical reasons, \"Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery\" and are abbreviated to MBChB, MBBS or BMBS.\n\nIn the UK, Ireland and many Commonwealth countries, the MD is a postgraduate research degree in medicine. At some universities, this takes the form of a first doctorate, analogous to the Ph.D., awarded upon submission of a thesis and a successful \"viva\". The thesis may consist of new research undertaken on a full- or part-time basis, with much less supervision (in the UK) than for a Ph.D., or a portfolio of previously published work.\n\nIn order to be eligible to apply for an MD degree from a UK or Commonwealth University one must hold either a \"Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery\" (MBBS, MBChB, BMBS for example) degree, or an equivalent U.S.-MD degree and must usually have at least five years of postgraduate experience. Therefore, graduates from the MBBS/MBChB/BMBS degrees do not hold doctorates; however, physicians holding these degrees are referred to as \"doctor\" as they are fully licensed as medical practitioners. In some commonwealth nations, these interns are designated as \"house officers\".\n\nAt some other universities (especially older institutions, such as Oxford, Dublin, Cambridge and St Andrews), the MD is a higher doctorate (similar to a DSc) awarded upon submission of a portfolio of published work representing a substantial contribution to medical research. The University of Cambridge has introduced a new degree of MedScD (more akin to the ScD degree) awarded on the basis of a career's contribution to the science or art of medicine, rather than a thesis, for which a candidate may be awarded the MD degree. Oxford did not do the same but instead demoted the rank of the degree the same level as the DPhil but retaining its original academic dress.\n\nIn the case where the MD is awarded (either as a first or higher doctorate) for previously published research, the candidate is usually required to be either a graduate or a full-time member of staff, of several years' standing of the university in question.\n\nIn the United States, MDs are awarded by medical schools as \"Professional Doctorate\" (as opposed to the Doctor of Philosophy degree which requires additional studies) and are accredited by the Liaison Committee on Medical Education (LCME), an independent body sponsored by the Association of American Medical Colleges, and the American Medical Association (AMA).\n\nAdmission to medical school in the United States and Canada is highly competitive, and in the United States about 17,800 out of approximately 47,000 applicants (~38%) received at least one acceptance to any medical school in recent application years. Before entering medical school, students are required to complete a four-year undergraduate degree and take the Medical College Admission Test (MCAT); however, some combined undergraduate-medical programs exist. Before graduating from a medical school and being awarded the Doctor of Medicine degree, students are required to take the United States Medical Licensing Examination (USMLE) Step 1 and both the clinical knowledge and clinical skills parts of Step 2. The MD degree is typically earned in four years. Following the awarding of the MD, physicians who wish to practice in the United States are required to complete at least one internship year (PGY-1) and pass the USMLE Step 3. In order to receive board eligible or board accredited status in a specialty of medicine such as general surgery or internal medicine, physicians undergo additional specialized training in the form of a residency. Those who wish to further specialize in areas such as cardiology or interventional radiology then complete a fellowship. Depending upon the physician's chosen field, residencies and fellowships involve an additional three to eight years of training after obtaining the MD. This can be lengthened with additional research years, which can last one, two, or more years.\nIn Canada, the MD is the basic medical degree required to practice medicine. McGill University Faculty of Medicine is the only medical school in Canada that continues to award the M.D., C.M. degrees (abbreviated M.D.C.M.). M.D.C.M. is from the Latin \"Medicinae Doctorem et Chirurgiae Magistrum\" meaning \"Doctor of Medicine and Master of Surgery\". Upon graduation, students enter into a residency phase of training. Prior to obtaining an independent practicing license from a provincial regulatory body, students must complete the Medical Council of Canada Qualifying Examination to obtain the Licentiate of the Medical Council of Canada (LMCC) qualifications.\n\nEven though the MD is a professional degree and not a research doctorate (i.e., a Ph.D.), many holders of the MD degree conduct clinical and basic scientific research and publish in peer-reviewed journals during training and after graduation; an academic physician whose work emphasizes basic research is called a physician-scientist. Combined medical and research training is offered through programs granting an MD-PhD. The National Institutes of Health (NIH), through its Medical Scientist Training Program, funds MD-PhD training programs at many universities. Some MDs choose a research career and receive funding from the NIH as well as other sources such as the Howard Hughes Medical Institute. The United States Department of Education and the National Science Foundation do not include the MD or other professional doctorates among the degrees that are equivalent to research doctorates.\n\n\nThere is also a similar advanced professional degree to the postgraduate MD: the Master of Surgery (usually ChM or MS, but MCh in Scotland, Ireland, Wales and at Oxford and MChir at Cambridge). The equivalence of these degrees, but their differing names, prevents the need for surgeons (addressed as Mr. in the UK) having to revert to the title Dr., which they once held as new MBBS graduates.\n\nIn Ireland, where the basic medical qualification includes a degree in obstetrics, there is a similar higher degree of Master of the Art of Obstetrics (MAO). A Master of Midwifery was formerly examined by the Worshipful Society of Apothecaries of London (hence MMSA) but fell into abeyance in the 1960s; in this case, the term Master referred not to a university degree but rather a professional rank that is common among craft guilds.\n\nIn East Africa, the medical schools in Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda award the degree of Master of Medicine (MMed) degree in both surgical and medical specialty disciplines following a three to six-year period of instruction.\n\nIn West Africa, the West African College of Physicians and the West African College of Surgeons award the Fellowship of the West African College of Physicians (FWACP) and the Fellowship of the West African College of Surgeons (FWACS) in medical and surgical disciplines respectively after a minimum of four-year residency training period.\n\nThe Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine or DO degree allows the same practice rights in the United States and Canada to the MD degree and Doctors of Osteopathic Medicine are fully licensed physicians. Holders of the MD degree must pass MD level board exams while DO holders can pass either the DO (COMLEX) exam or MD exam (USMLE). Similarly, MDs must attend MD rated residency and fellowship programs while DOs can attend either MD programs or Osteopathic (DO) programs. As a result of this, the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) are currently transitioning to a single accreditation system for medical residencies in the U.S. On average, MD matriculants score 510 on MCAT examinations and have an average GPA of 3.70 while DO matriculants score 504 and have an average GPA of 3.56. The American MD degree is also recognized by most countries in the world. While DO physicians are only licensed to practice the full scope of medicine and surgery in 65 countries.\n"}
{"id": "18102956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18102956", "title": "Education in Burundi", "text": "Education in Burundi\n\nEducation is compulsory in Burundi for six years, between the ages of 7 and 13. Theoretically, primary education is free at point of use.\n\nPrimary education in Burundi spans six grades between the ages of 7 and 13. The next educational tier, known as Lower Secondary, comprises an additional four grades. Upper Secondary includes three further grades. Students sit exams in their penultimate year of primary school known as the Sixth Year Certificate (\"Certificat de la Sixième\") as well as examinations in their tenth year to determine their eligeability for Upper Secondary. Finally, a final examination is set in the final year of Upper Secondary known as the Diploma for the End of Secondary Study (\"Diplôme de Fin d'Études Secondaires\"). \n\nIn 2015, the gross primary enrolment rate for children (aged 5–14) was 61 percent. 26 percent of children in the same age group combined education with paid work. There was a 66 percent completion rate for primary education. The student–teacher ratio in Burundi in 2011 was 29.4:1.\n\nGeneral levels of education in Burundi are low. In 2011, the country had an estimated literacy rate of approximately 60 percent. The Burundian government is a signatory to various international protocols against child labour.\n\nIn not practice, the reality of the Burundian education system is often different from its legal structure. The fighting during the Burundian Civil War (1993–2006) did particular damage to the education system. Around 25 percent of all the country's schools were destroyed and many teachers were killed or became internally displaced. Over 6,000 Burundian children also live in refugee camps outside Burundi.\n\n"}
{"id": "18091787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18091787", "title": "Education in Haiti", "text": "Education in Haiti\n\nThe Haitian Educational System yields the lowest total rate in the education realm of the Western Hemisphere. Haiti's literacy rate of about 61% (64.3% for males and 57.3% for females) is below the 90% average literacy rate for Latin American and Caribbean countries. The country faces shortages in educational supplies and qualified teachers. The rural population is less educated than the urban. The 2010 Haiti earthquake exacerbated the already constrained parameters on Haiti's educational system by destroying infrastructure and displacing 50–90% of the students, depending on locale.\n\nInternational private schools (run by Canada, France, or the United States) and church-run schools educate 90% of students. Haiti has 15,200 primary schools, of which 90% are non-public and managed by communities, religious organizations or NGOs. The enrollment rate for primary school is 88%. Secondary schools enroll 20% of eligible-age children. Higher education is provided by universities and other public and private institutions.\n\nThe educational sector is under the responsibility of the Ministre de l'Éducation Nationale et de la Formation Professionnelle (MENFP). The Ministry provides very little funds to support public education. As a result, the private sector has become a substitute for governmental public investment in education as opposed to an addition. The Ministry is limited in its ability to improve the quality of education in Haiti.\n\nDespite the deficiencies of the Haitian education sector, some Haitian leaders have attempted to make improving education a national goal. The country has attempted three major reform efforts, with a new one in progress as a response to the earthquake.\n\n\"African slaves were worked so hard by French plantation owners that half died within a few years; it was cheaper to import new slaves than to improve working conditions enough to increase survival. This attitude allowed no time or resources for the education of the enslaved. Children of slaveholders were tutored in the early grades at home and then sent to France for further study. There were few schools in Saint Domingue. At the time of independence, years of war had demolished most infrastructure including any educational facilities.\n\nAt the beginning of independence, King Christophe in the north of Haiti looked to Englishman William Wilberforce to build up the new nation's educational system. King Christophe, though illiterate, understood the necessity of education. He was keen to show that formerly enslaved educated persons could hold their own with the educated of the world. Wilburforce encouraged Prince Saunders of Boston as well as four others to join their efforts at developing a Lancastrian model of education. This is a Monitorial System where the teacher teaches the more advanced students who then in turn teach the less advanced. It is designed to educate a large number of students without benefit of a large number of professional teachers.\n\nIn the south of Haiti, President Alexandre Pétion turned to the French to guide his development of the educational system. He was personally familiar with it since he had studied ballistics in France. His approach to the issue of inadequate numbers of teachers for the primary grades was to focus on secondary education in the Napoleonic approach to education.\n\nThe first Constitution, promulgated in 1805 by King Christophe, stated that \"... education shall be free. Primary education shall be compulsory... State education shall be free at every level.\" It guaranteed the right for everyone to teach –an \"open-door policy\" to private initiatives which meant that every person would have the right to form private establishments for the education and instruction of youth. The practice of providing accessible public education for all was established later when the Constitution was revised in 1807. Much later in 1987, the declaration that education shall be a right for every citizen was added to the Constitution.\n\nAt the beginning of the United States occupation of Haiti there was an effort by the U.S. military to improve the education but not to the degree to which they had in the previous countries that they had occupied such as Cuba or the Puerto Rico. Their initial assessment of the Haitian educational system was similar to many that had been made before. The solution of the military, as first understood – of broadening the type of education and opening it up to more of the population, was considered a positive change by many Haitians as well as a number of American editorial writers who were keeping an eye on Haiti.\nThe most basic issue was that the current educational system did not successfully educate the average Haitian who spoke only Haitian Creole. The Haitian education system was built on the idea of the superiority of the French language over any other language, and the profound inferiority of Haitian culture to that of the French culture. This concept of superiority were born in the minds of the elite during the years of slavery and were re-enforced when the French Catholic Church was allowed to return and begin establishing schools as a result of the Concordat of 1860. The classical education, more commonly called an \"academic\" education was meant to prepare the elite for further education in France. There was heavy emphasis on the literature of France and rhetoric and very little science or practical education such as engineering and the learning tended to be rote. The language of instruction was French which was further re-enforced at home, among friends and in their reading materials down to food labels in their pantries. Non-elite students did not have the benefit of speaking French at home. In the schools that served the non-elite, French was still the language of instruction but there was a good chance the teacher was not fluent and the teaching became even more rote. Further down the social ladder, the quality of the teacher's either Creole or French was even less certain. To ensure universal education for all, it was clear that profound, deep, systemic changes would need to begin.\n\nThe Occupation's solution, however, was different than prior attempts at repair in that there was to be a new and extreme emphasis on agricultural education over the traditional academic education that the elites received.\nThe decision process surrounding this move to agricultural education and its implementation caused a great deal of concern and controversy in Haiti as well as in the U.S. – particularly among black American leaders. To them it smacked of attempts in the southern United States to limit black citizens to simple agricultural training to keep them from moving up the social economic ladder and to keep them from moving into a profession or positions of leadership. (Note that there was an ongoing debate in the United States among leaders of black people at the time about the best educational path for black Americans – see the discussions between Booker T. Washington and W.E.B. Dubois [ whose father had been born in Haiti.] – however no black leader advocated for solely agricultural training.)\n\nUS. black leaders discovered that the U.S. decision makers in Haiti were all white military men – the majority of whom were southerners raised with Jim Crow laws. Concerns were raised about systemic racism such that one such leader Rayford W. Logan – an American French speaking advocate of Pan-Africanism – went on a fact finding mission, traveling much of the country and examining documents published by the Occupational forces. While there was no systematic record- keeping for all the Occupation years or for all the other efforts in the occupied countries, he was able to see clear patterns of denial of funds and minimization of Haitian culture. He concluded that the occupation's educational efforts were failing due to issues related to racism – some subtle and some blatant.\n\nIn the initial treaty with Haiti no mention was explicitly made of educational improvements or policy as had been done in the Philippines, Cuba and Puerto Rico. Rayford considered this \"an almost inexplicable omission\".\n\nThe Occupation budget for education in Haiti in 1920 paled in comparison to previous amounts allocated in other occupied countries. (Note that all monies for education came out of the Haitian treasury – there were no monies forthcoming from the United States.) \n\n\nWhile the U.S. was in the Dominican Republic, the salary of a teacher there had increased from $5 to $10 a month to $55 a month. Dominican rural schools had increased in number from 84 before the occupation to 489 in 1921. Logan attributed this disparity to racism, even though citizens of both countries were descended from African slaves. The Dominican Republic citizens described themselves as white people or mulatto while Haitians described themselves as black or mulatto.\n\nIn Haiti, the Occupation had essentially developed two school systems – one run by the U.S. – the agricultural sector called the Service Technique (or Technical Service) and the one run by the Haitian government – the academic from the elite lycee schools to the primary school in the mountain villages.\nThe implementation of the Service Techniques was highly problematic. The classes were taught by American teachers – few of whom spoke French let alone Haitian Creole. This required most classes to use translators which slowed down the teaching process considerably and added another cost.\n\nLogan found that the salary differentials were such that Haitian primary school teachers were paid $72 a year while the American inspector of schools in that local area was paid between $1800 and $2400 a year. Academic schools were clearly deprived of funds while agricultural schools were generously funded. The Americans paid little attention to rural schools – home of the vast majority of Haitians.\n\nAfter 13 years of Occupation there were only a third of the rural schools – 306 – as opposed to the 1074 required by the Haiti law of 1912. There was also a dearth of government owned school buildings – Haiti had much more of a deficit in numbers of school buildings than other countries the U.S. had occupied. In the Philippines, the Occupation had built 1000 schools; in Cuba, 2600 schools with attendance jumping from 21,000 to 215,000.\n\nGiven the concern about European influence in the Caribbean prior to World War I it is not surprising that Occupation forces wanted to diminish the influence of the Germans and French in Haitian life. Germans controlled important parts of the economy but it was the French who controlled the culture. It was much easier to replace the Germans with American businessmen but there was not an easy replacement for the French way of life. When the Haitian government asked that French Trappists (one of Catholicism's holy orders) be allowed to provide schooling, they were denied – even though this would have been a less expensive method of education. There was also a deep concern surrounding the separation of church and state among the Occupation leaders because it did not fit the model of American democracy. In the Americans' view the Catholic Church was intertwined with French influence and its reach into Haitian society needed to be reduced even though this would negatively affect academic education. At one point, two French professors were denied the ability to teach and the French Ambassador to the United States made an official complaint. It was the hope of the Occupation to reduce cultural reliance on the French but the American military badly underestimated the intellectual, language and emotional ties to France among the elite.\nThere were some elite who at the beginning of the Occupation offered support for the Occupation's educational efforts but once it became it clear that there would not only be no support for the academic schools, that many of them would actually be closed – the elite became increasingly anti-American.\n\nWhile many in Haiti had a plethora of reasons to be frustrated with the Occupation it was actually students who instigated the final demonstrations against the Americans that finally forced them out. They had been promised scholarships to the Service Technique but did not receive them. It was the straw that broke the camel's back and began the revolt that ended the Occupation in 1934.\n\nRural Education\n\nAlthough the American Occupation officially ended in 1934 (with some aspects, such as finance and customs, actually continuing until 1947), the U.S. personnel running the Technical Service of Agriculture and Vocational Education (\"Service Technique de l'Agriculture et de l'Enseignement Professionnel\") left in October 1931. Important changes in rural education began to be effected following their departure and the naming of Maurice Dartigue as Director of Rural Education (from 1931 to 1941). Significant innovations in urban education were made later when Dartigue was appointed Minister of Public Instruction, Agriculture and Labor, serving from 1941 to late 1945.\n\nInitially, the Haitian Government was faced with a dilemma: where to house this service that the Occupation had created. The antiquated Department of Public Instruction was deemed unsuitable, as it had not been reorganized at any time in the past decade. As a result, the Technical Service was split in two, forming the National Service of Agricultural Production and Rural Education (\"Service National de la Production Agricole et de l'Enseignemnt Rural\"), under the Department of Agriculture, and the National Service of Vocational Education (\"Service National de l'Enseignement Professionnel\"), placed under the Department of Labor.\n\nSince Haiti's educational system had been based wholly on a French curriculum, reflecting a classical approach, with courses in French, using French texts, the country now had the opportunity of a brand-new start that would make the education Haitian, modern, professional, and democratic.\n\nThe Haitianization of the system meant that Haitians would take the place of American teachers and administrators formerly in charge of the rural and vocational schools and that students would be presented with an approach to education that was relevant to their needs and to their milieu, a truly revolutionary concept for Haiti. This was augmented with books written specifically for Haitian children by rural-education specialists, including the ground-breaking \"Géographie Locale \"(Local Geography) by Maurice Dartigue and André Liautaud, and in that same year (1931) Dartigue's civics textbook, \"Les Problèmes de la Communauté\" (The Problems of the Community), to help form good citizens.\n\nThis was also a chance to introduce a modern curriculum, one that combined a practical foundation in agriculture and manual trades with \"book learning,\" i.e., the three Rs, elements of Haitian history and geography, social sciences, hygiene, and physical education—subjects that were of relevance to the children and their environment. It was also an opportunity to establish new teaching methods and for teachers to undergo proper training and, in many cases, retraining. Prior to 1931, the prevalent opinion had been that any individual with a certain amount of culture was capable of working in the various fields of education. This ignored the fact that education is both an art and a science that can only be organized and directed by competent specialists. The proper formation of teachers would also lead to the professionalization of education and to providing status and dignity for the profession.\n\nThe aim of the new education was to reach everyone. No longer would the system cater only to the 10% that had a mastery of French, while the other 90%--principally the country's rural citizens—remained largely illiterate. Education would finally be democratic and might lead to a democratic society. Children of all classes of society, all on an equal footing, would have the same opportunity for learning and for advancement in a land with a strict caste system that the peasantry could presently never escape.\n\nMaurice Dartigue was a graduate of the Central School of Agriculture (which the Americans had established in 1924); had spent five years working for the Technical Service; and had earned a master's degree in rural education from Columbia University's Teachers College in New York. The reforms he undertook to revolutionize Haiti's rural educational system included many firsts.\n\nThe initial step was to conduct a comprehensive survey throughout the country, the statistical data from which was analyzed and used to evaluate the system's present and future needs and budgets. The survey revealed that conditions quoted in official reports and statements made by Haitian educators and intellectuals from 1884 to 1914 were still the same in 1931. As had been shown in 1892 (when the then-Minister of Public Instruction had indicated that most of the rural schools listed were in fact non-existent), any number of schools were still only on paper while quite a number consisted only of a rudimentary \"tonnelle\" (a shelter) with three or four benches. Very few, if any, had ever received supplies from the Department of Public Instruction. The exact location of many schools was unknown to the central office in Port-au-Prince and even to the district inspectors. In a number of cases, teachers stayed away from work for three, four or even six months a year. Those instructors who were found in their schools or could be reached during the survey were given a simple elementary test. Most of them were judged practically illiterate and unable to do basic arithmetic: they were absolutely incompetent.\n\nThe results of the survey demonstrated that it was not the fault of the peasants if they did not benefit from the rural schools allegedly established since 1860. The peasant was untutored not only in what we understand to be basic education (the three Rs) but also in the ways of the earth as to irrigation, fertilization, seed selection, crop rotation, terracing, reforestation, soil erosion, conservation, standardization for marketing, and the like, because up to this time no educational system had tried to give him the mental and technical equipment necessary to cope adequately with his problems. Meeting these problems head-on and solving them intelligently required a certain kind of instruction, a specific type of schooling, whereby economic proficiency was viewed as more important than literacy. The emphasis on economic competence needed to aim at creating earning power for the peasant. Schooling was also meant to develop in the peasantry reliability, responsibility, and leadership. In addition to imparting technical skills, it was necessary for the peasant's education to expose him to and provide training in the cultural, civic, and social aspects of his immediate world and the larger one of the Haitian nation. It was important to instill a unifying culture in the peasantry, to create a sense of the nation they belonged to, to have them embrace the values and qualities that could, with the middle and upper classes, join them into one society.\n\nRural education essentially meant primary schooling and was to cover a period of six years. Not only did it constitute the foundation of the educational system, but for the majority of rural students, it was all the education they were going to get because it was unlikely they would continue with further studies. It was therefore imperative that the pupils be given a minimum of knowledge.\n\nDartigue advocated a scientific approach to education and the application of the principles of pedagogy. For the first time, Haiti now had a rural educational system based on a philosophy of education and not on a blind imitation of foreign (i.e., French) programs. The education of girls was also deemed of great importance, for if there was to be improvement in peasant life, girls had to be schooled because progress, particularly social progress, is closely connected with the education of women. The number of schools for girls was increased, as were the number of mixed schools (girls and boys together), and more women were encouraged to enter the teaching profession.\n\nPrograms were undertaken to involve parents and the rest of the community in the idea of rural education as a way for adults to understand its purpose and value, not only for the children but for themselves as well. A vital bond needed to be established between the school and the community by centering as much as possible the life of the community around the rural schools so that they might exert an influence toward social and economic improvement of the community. This outreach was a new concept for Haiti. Recreational programs for children and parents were begun. Parent associations were formed and regular meetings held to discuss the problems of the school and the community. County agricultural agents explained newly enacted laws and regulations regarding agriculture and advised on the planting of crops, methods of cultivation, and marketing. They demonstrated good agricultural practices, and many seedlings and thousands of seeds were distributed free of charge. The peasants were also encouraged to bring their tools to be repaired in the school shop, and agricultural implements were sold at cost to the peasants of certain regions, while modern silos were built in different areas to conserve grain and stabilize prices throughout the year. Gradually, teachers and pupils, with the occasional aid of some of the adults, pursued projects in the community, such as drainage, cleaning water springs, and building latrines.\n\nCivics was introduced into the rural-school curriculum to foster national pride in being part of the nation. To this end, the Haitian flag was placed in the courtyard of each school, and the students were led in singing the national anthem every morning at the start of the school day. The importance of creating a distinctive, authentic, original Haitian culture that sought to unify the disparate segments of society was stressed, and so Haitian folklore, music and art were added to the school day. Whereas Creole had been used in the lower elementary grades in the oral teaching of agriculture, health, manual arts, and elementary arithmetic, except in the last two most advanced grades, all written work had been done in French. The goal now was to increase literacy and facilitate schoolwork in general by having all the academic work, written and oral, in the first two or three grades of the rural schools conducted in Creole. This allowed the vast number of rural children, who were non-French speakers, to understand what they were being taught and to provide a comfortable and gradual bridge to their subsequent studies in French.\n\nAll the incompetent instructors were fired and replaced with those chosen through educational credentials or competitive exams. A cadre of civil-service specialists was created who would remain a constant in and carry on the work and progress of the Division of Rural Education, regardless of who was at the helm. This would be possible because one of Dartigue's most important reforms was to ban political patronage from the Division, allowing educators to obtain and maintain their positions through competence and experience. There was no question of reforming rural education on a scientific and practical basis without specialists in this field with a proper preparation not only in education and the science of education but in sociology and educational psychology. Grants for overseas study (mostly in the United States but also in Canada and Puerto Rico) were arranged to permit teachers, principals, directors, statisticians and the like to complete and perfect their education and training. A new type of teacher training (pre-service and in-service training, plus summer courses) was developed, and new methods in teaching a new curriculum were introduced that allowed for a practical education that would instruct rural students in the basics of agriculture and manual training, along with the three Rs.\n\nMany of the schools were in very bad physical condition. The best accommodations that could be found in each community were rented to house the schools, based on suitability and not on favoritism as in the past. Others were repaired while some were built from scratch by teachers and students pitching in together. School furniture was made or repaired, mostly in the shops of the farm-schools, thus providing the teachers and pupils of these institutions with a chance to engage in practical and useful projects. Essential school materials (e.g., blackboards, pencils, chalk, books, paper) were distributed. Mobile teams were created to go into the countryside to assist teachers; refresh their knowledge, teaching methods and curriculum; and reinforce the feeling of being part of the Division of Rural Education from which they were geographically isolated. The teams also discussed local problems with the teachers and tried to help them arrive at solutions.\n\nThere was throughout Haitian society a strong stigma attached to manual labor which Dartigue sought to remove by encouraging the pursuit of vocational skills in trade schools and to develop an appreciation of the value of farming (given Haiti's largely agrarian society). Before 1932, the teaching of trades and agriculture was absolutely unknown in the rural schools. At the end of the academic year 1934–35, trades were practiced in all the rural schools at least some of the year. A special supervisor of manual trades and two supervisors of agriculture were sent to the various districts to help the local supervisors. Having a manual skill would be enriching to the peasant and would widen his horizons; it would also give him something with which to occupy himself in the dry season and would be a source of added revenue.\n\nFrom 1936 on, there began in earnest a campaign of reforestation to counteract the indiscriminate felling of trees for charcoal (a truly catastrophic situation today) through the designation of an official Arbor Day that involved the planting of trees. Teachers attended courses in the subject, including the causes of deforestation, that they then transmitted to their students.\n\nMajor changes were made in the way rural education was structured. The National Service of Agricultural Production and Rural Education was divided in two, with one part being a reorganized Division of Rural Education (whose antecedent had come into being with the formation of the farm-schools under the Americans in the 1920s). The Central School Of Agriculture, which had closed in 1930 on the heels of a student strike, was now re-opened, installed under the Division, and overhauled, with an agricultural section for the formation of agronomists and an agricultural-teaching section for the preparation of instructors for the farm-schools, the rural schools, and the vocational schools. New programs were devised for both areas and new theoretical and practical courses were added, especially in the agricultural-teaching section. The school's library was also reorganized, and a special section of Haitian literature by Haitians and of books about Haiti was created for the very first time. Not only was this the first time Haitians had an institution like the improved Central School, but it was also the first time they had a national library of such breadth.\n\nAt this time, in 1931, there were three types of rural schools: the 74 farm-schools (under the Department of Agriculture), roughly 365 national rural schools (administered by the Department of Public Instruction), and 160 religious schools (nominally under the Department of Public Instruction, with 130 subsidized by the State) that had been set up in certain parishes per the Convention of 1913 between the Government and the Catholic bishops. The national rural schools were moved to the Division of Rural Education, which also oversaw the farm-schools. Finally, all of rural education could be found under one roof.\n\nThe farm-schools had been the first serious and successful attempt to devise a kind of rural school to meet the needs of the people of the rural communities. They emphasized not only literacy but social services and the study of adequate methods of agriculture and handicrafts. The schools were now enlarged and ameliorated, and they functioned far better than they had before. Each school—consisting of a good building of one, two, or three classrooms—had a garden plot and a shop room equipped with the necessary tools and implements. Teaching methods were improved, and incompetent instructors were gradually dismissed, replaced only by those who had studied at the Central School of Agriculture. Up until now, Haiti had never had a corps of indigenous teachers having a classical and professional preparation; presently, with the instructors of the farm-schools, it did.\n\nThe American Occupation had, in 1928, set up a small but important post-primary boarding school at Chatard in the north where outstanding pupils from the other farm-schools who had completed or were about to complete elementary schoolwork were sent. They remained at Chatard for three to four years and received advanced academic training as well as agricultural and manual training. Some of the boys did so well that, at the end of their studies at Chatard, they were able to go through the teacher-training division of the Central School of Agriculture. This was the very first attempt made to train rural leaders.\n\nIn 1935, one hundred twenty-six primary schools in 63 \"bourgs\" (small market towns on a rural economy) were transferred to the Division of Rural Education. Then, in 1938, some 100 communal schools (maintained by a certain number of municipalities) and 10 schools (five for boys and five for girls) in the five agricultural colonies (on the border of the Dominican Republic) were also added to the Division. All of these underwent thorough reorganization, with the hiring of more qualified teachers (again through competitive exams), finding better housing for schools, and providing proper furnishings and school materials.\n\nIn 1939, President Sténio Vincent created a special school in Cap Haïtien, the Children's Home of Vocational Education (a loose translation of \"La Maison Populaire de l'Education\"), a sort of primary technical school for less privileged boys, which was placed under the Division of Rural Education.\n\nThat same year, a girls' school modeled on the one for boys at Chatard was finally realized: Martissant was created outside Port-au-Prince, a post-primary domestic science school for 100 girls, with all expenses paid by the government. It was the first of its kind and a real achievement. It too was run by the Division.\n\nYet between 1935 and 1941, the annual government-allotted budget for rural education kept shrinking, which meant increasing creativity and careful management on the Division's part in utilizing available funds.\n\nBetween 1942 and 1945, the 4C Associations (standing for \"coeur, cerveau, corps, et conscience\"—that is, heart, mind, body, and conscience), begun a few years earlier and patterned after the American 4H Clubs, were taken over, reorganized, and developed into one of the most interesting features of the work in rural schools. They were gradually extended to a large number of schools, and by the end of 1944, there were more than 250 with 4C Associations. Their members were pupils who were enrolled in a given school and who adopted a yearly program of work consisting of a number of projects. Each group of projects was under the special care of a particular committee: agriculture, animal husbandry, health, manual arts, beekeeping, etc. It was felt that the habits and attitudes developed through these activities would be made more permanent if the initiative and the responsibility for the undertaking and carrying through of some of the projects were left to the pupils themselves under the guidance of the teachers. The agriculture committee, for example, was in charge of the upkeep of the grounds and gardens and supervised the agricultural projects launched in the community. The health committee took care of the cleanliness of the school premises and promoted extension work in the communities.\n\nSome rural-school teachers held night classes to teach literacy among adults, but they were faced with a language problem. The peasant knew only Creole, whereas books and printed materials had been in French. In 1940, an Irish Methodist preacher, the Reverend H. Ormonde McConnell, had initiated in the Port-au-Prince area two or three centers experimenting with teaching reading in Creole. In 1943, Dr. Frank C. Laubach, a former American missionary who had developed alphabets and phonetic methods for writing various dialects and languages, came to Haiti and helped the Rev. McConnell improve his phonetic method. After a few demonstrations, the Department of Public Instruction appropriated a sum of money to continue the experiment on a wider scale under the direction of a Literacy Committee which was headed by the Director of Primary Education (in the Department of Public Instruction) and of which the Rev. McConnell was made a member. Two booklets, teaching materials, and a small weekly newspaper were published in Creole. (Each issue of the paper reached 5,000 copies.) Literacy centers were established in a number of localities throughout the Republic with the help of volunteers. At the end of 1944, reports indicated that 4,242 adults had attended the various centers and that 1,946 had been taught to read.\n\nUrban Education\n\nUnlike rural education and vocational education, which had been under the Technical Service and the Department of Agriculture during the American Occupation, urban education had been administered by the Department of Public Instruction and had not seen any reform during the 1920s.\n\nThe urban primary schools were in two sections: elementary primary education, lasting six years, and higher (or superior) primary education, lasting an additional two to four years. Secondary education consisted of eight national \"lycées\" (high schools), three private religious academies, and six lay secondary schools, all for boys, as there was still no secondary school for girls. The curriculum ran for seven years.\n\nThe Minister of Public Instruction's report to then-president Sténio Vincent for the year 1932–1933 spoke of the stagnation of the urban schools, which was due principally to the absence of sufficient funding. Teachers' salaries were low, making it difficult to recruit new instructors, despite the burning need. Inspectors and deputy inspectors were unable to make the three annual tours of their districts as required by law. School buildings were unsatisfactory because of age, neglect or unsuitability for housing classrooms. Basic school furniture was in need of repair or replacement, and school supplies were often non-existent. Student attendance had not varied over the course of years, since the law governing compulsory education was not enforced. Moreover, students were turned away from some schools because there was no room for them or there weren't enough teachers. Promising plans for a normal (i.e., teacher-training) school for women instructors of primary education had not progressed very far, and the recently created normal school for male teachers, housed in the basement of the newly formed National Service for Vocational Education, had yet to be properly organized. Both the women's and men's facilities lacked a dormitory to lodge applicants from the provinces.\n\nThe shortcomings experienced at the primary level naturally affected the quality of urban education all the way up the line: insufficient formation in the lower grades left students less prepared for what they would encounter in high school. But the secondary level came in for its own criticism from \"The Report of the United States Commission on Education in Haiti\" overseen by Robert Russa Moton, principal of Tuskegee Institute, and issued in 1931, for failing to provide for the needs of the country by focusing on the literary at the expense of science, the social sciences, sociology, government and economics.\n\nThe dozen urban vocational schools (nine for boys, three for girls) were also at a disadvantage because the men best qualified and trained in the field by the Americans unfortunately did not head the new National Service of Vocational Education, and the schools, with the exception of Elie Dubois, degenerated further, until they were reorganized once more, in 1943. However, around 1935, a modern trade school, well equipped with shops and a dormitory, was built in Port-au-Prince and placed under the direction of the Catholic Salesian Fathers (\"Salésiens de Don Bosco\").\n\nAlso in 1935, Résia Vincent, the president's sister, brought from Italy five Salesian Sisters of St. John Bosco/Daughters of Mary Help of Christians (\"Soeurs Salésiennes de Don Bosco/Filles de Marie-Auxiliatrice\") to run a boarding school that she opened in the poverty-stricken area of La Saline, just outside Port-au-Prince. It accommodated 100 very poor orphaned girls who were to be trained to become maids, cooks, housekeepers or seamstresses by learning, in addition to the three Rs, cooking, cleaning, laundry, sewing, and other household tasks. Ms. Vincent hoped to give girls a proper preparation, provide them with a trousseau upon leaving, and have them placed in families that would treat them well (which was not always the case with domestic help). As such, it was the first of its kind.\n\nIn 1938, a first attempt was made to reorganize the Department of Public Instruction. The system was split into two big divisions: Urban Education and Rural Education, while Vocational Education ceased to exist as a separate entity and was shifted from the Department of Labor to the Department of Public Instruction.\n\nUrban Education had three sections: Administrative, under a Director-General; Pedagogic, with an Assistant Director of Classical Education, an Assistant Director of Vocational Education, and an Assistant Director of Girls' Education; and an Inspector Service. A Central Bureau of physical education was also created, consisting of a Commissioner of Sports, two Monitors and a doctor. A dormitory was added to the Normal School for Girls for students from beyond the capital city, allowing for more young women to attend the school and for more trained staff to return to the provinces. In a certain number of provincial schools, incompetent teachers were replaced by students and graduates of the Normal School.\n\nAlthough the new administrative and organizational set-up constituted a definite improvement over the old one, and the men in charge more experienced, nevertheless it did not meet the professional and administrative requirements of an institution qualified to be entrusted with varied and specialized functions. It lacked professional training and dynamic leadership at the top, as well as the trained personnel needed at the intermediate levels. By the end of 1939, the reorganization movement had lost its momentum, and subsequent to a change in the Cabinet, no further measures were taken.\n\nIn May 1941, a new government, headed by President Elie Lescot, undertook a thorough reorganization of urban education under Maurice Dartigue, the newly appointed Minister of Public Instruction, Agriculture and Labor. The changes made would become known among subsequent and present-day educators as \"la réforme Dartigue\" (the Dartigue reforms—see, for example, Charles Pierre-Jacques' \"From Haiti to Africa, Itinerary of Maurice Dartigue, a Visionary Educator,\" published in 2017). As in the earlier case of rural education, there would be many firsts in the urban field, and they would be preceded by a complete, objective and scientific survey of the Department, from the central office to the most remote school. The initial survey was of the primary schools, followed by one of the vocational schools and, lastly, one of the secondary schools. A full inventory of conditions in each school was made, and a questionnaire was filled out by as many teachers as could be found. From a knowledge of existing conditions, based on fact and statistical data, a reorganization and modernization of the urban school system could proceed.\n\nThe reorganization took place in three phases over the course of three years, inaugurating (a) a new administrative organization, (b) the training of personnel, and (c) the reorganization of the curriculum, improvement in methods of teaching, the editing of textbooks, organization of social welfare, and training in citizenship.\n\nAdministration and supervision were centered in the Division of Urban Education (\"Direction générale de l'enseignement urbain\"), which was reorganized and installed under a Director-General with the following specialized divisions: Primary and Normal Education, Vocational Education, Secondary and Higher Education, Physical Education, and the Central Administrative Division. This last was constituted as follows: a personnel section which housed records on all teachers and kept a check on appointments, transfers, promotions, and pension requests; a statistics section; an inventory and supply section; and an accounting and control (of all purchases) section. An engineer was placed in charge of the upkeep of school buildings. From 1942 to 1945, an annual report was regularly published, covering all phases of the work of the Department of Public Instruction, with statistics and a summary of expenditures properly classified.\n\nPrimary-school teachers who did not have the equivalent of nine years of primary education and had not obtained a passing grade in the examination given to them were dismissed. Candidates for teaching posts without a diploma from a normal school or a teacher-training course or without a certificate of completion of their secondary education were employed only if they passed a competitive examination. Short regional courses on the principles of education, methods and administration were inaugurated for all primary-school teachers in service. Summer courses for improving skills were introduced, held for one month at Damien (near Port-au-Prince), and were continued the next three years.\n\nIn 1942, as a pilot project, Creole began to be used in the first two years of urban primary schools, thus allowing teachers to better initiate into school life children lacking French before introducing French as the language of their education.\n\nThe vocational schools, which numbered 10 in 1942 (of which two were for girls) posed greater problems for their reform because these teachers needed to have an expertise in their field right from the start and could have only a certain number of students in class to make teaching effective. Vocational education also required materials that were expensive. A decision was made to close during a period of about 15 months those schools located in the provinces, while five principals and 10 teachers were sent to study in the United States and another group of instructors attended the vocational school of the Salesian Fathers in Port-au-Prince for a period of about seven months where they received an intensive training. Those teachers who were truly incompetent were let go. It was also important to determine the needs of every community so that vocational schools could provide the appropriate courses to their students. The trades taught were cabinet-making, automobile mechanics, masonry, tinsmithing, tailoring, and shoemaking in the boys' schools; cooking, sewing, dressmaking, embroidery, and other needlework in the girls' schools. Not all the schools taught all the trades.\n\nOn the heels of the survey of vocational schools, it was realized that the value of the graduates of the four private commercial schools, consisting of 400 students and located in Port-au-Prince, where bookkeeping, shorthand, and typing were taught, did not fully answer the need for competent personnel for businesses. A close collaboration was now established between the Department of Public Instruction and the schools' directors that would allow the Division of Urban Education to organize and direct the schools' final exams.\n\nIn some of the larger cities, there were also part-time schools (\"écoles de demi-temps\") established specially for young servants, allowing them to go to public school when they were not working (assuming households would permit their attendance).\n\nAs to the secondary schools, they too were in a woeful state. The comprehensive survey carried out by the Department had several aims. One was to professionalize education by hiring competent personnel through competitive exams or proper credentials. The other goal was to become aware in a detailed way of the functioning of the \"lycées\"; the method of recruiting staff and the efficiency of this staff; the state of the school premises, the furniture and materials; and generally how the schools were being run. It also became evident that there was a need to create a meaningful program of study and to modernize teaching methods.\n\nThose instructors who did not have a certificate of completion of their secondary-school studies (representing about 10% of the teaching staff) were dismissed, and a prospective teacher who lacked training above the secondary-school level in the subject he was to teach could be employed only after passing a competitive exam. Furthermore, during three consecutive years, all the teachers of the nine public \"lycées\" of the Republic had to attend summer courses in Port-au-Prince. (Teachers of private secondary schools were invited to attend as well, and some accepted.) These courses, which were an all-important innovation, were taught by visiting professors from American, Canadian and French universities, as well as by Haitian academics. (Among the scholarly figures Maurice Dartigue attracted to Haiti to lecture or to teach specialized courses to Haitian instructors were the eminent W.E.B. Du Bois, civil rights activist and co-founder of the NAACP; Aimé Césaire, co-founder of the \"Négritude\" movement in Francophone literature and French National Assembly \"Député\" representing his native Martinique; Alain Locke, \"Dean\" of the Harlem Renaissance and philosophy department chair at Howard University; and Auguste Viatte, literature department chair at Laval University in Montreal and champion of the French language throughout the world. Dartigue was also one of the lecturers at the summer courses.) The Americans were sent by the Division of Cultural Relations of the U.S. State Department and the U.S. Office of the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs. These departments also provided for a period of about three years a group of American teachers to teach English in the different \"lycées\" and to train a group of Haitian teachers of English. The supervisor of this group, former Howard University professor Dr. Mercer Cook, did an outstanding job. DeWitt Peters, another of the American teachers, opened, with the Department of Public Instruction's financial support, the Art Center (\"Centre d'Art\") in Port-au-Prince, which had considerable success and launched Haitian art onto the world market.\n\nDorothy M. Kirby, yet another of these Americans, became the principal of the first public \"lycée\" for girls since the time of President Alexandre Pétion's secondary school for girls that had closed shortly after his death, in 1818. The opening of this new school in the fall of 1943 was a momentous event. Forty girls were admitted to the \"lycée\" which had the same curriculum as the boys' school, but with domestic science and child care added. Since then, hundreds of young women have become professionals, especially in the fields of medicine, education, law, architecture and engineering.\n\nThe Normal School for Girls was closed for five months, reorganized and re-opened in a new environment. In this project, the Department received the cooperation of the U.S. Inter-American Educational Foundation (part of the U.S. Institute of Inter-American Affairs). A teacher-training section for male teachers of urban schools was added to the Rural Normal School at Damien.\n\nIn addition to these reforms, Dartigue sought to address the matter of personnel. Laws were passed and regulations instituted establishing the qualifications for the different levels of instruction and the positions of the professional staff. Moreover, political patronage was banned, a decision of capital importance that applied to all branches of the Department, not just to teachers, and where promotion would be based on merit and seniority. This was a radical departure from prior administrations where the field of education had been viewed as fertile ground for politicians to exercise their muscle in getting jobs for friends and family, regardless of qualification. This was because government jobs were practically the only secure means of livelihood for a large part of the educated class, since industry was essentially non-existent, since almost all the agricultural production was in the hands of an illiterate peasantry, and since a large part of commerce was controlled by foreigners. The successful reorganization of urban education was dependent on the development of a professional and administrative staff that was independent of politics. And for four-and-a-half years, there was no deviation from these rules. For the first time since Independence, a Haitian government would have in a serious manner laid down the bases for the professionalization of urban education. This was a brand-new conception in the field, the most remarkable and important contribution the Government made to the Department, allowing for permanent cadres of education and administrative specialists capable of assuring not only the application of reforms but also their continuation into the future, for one of the leading causes of the inefficiency of the Department, aside from politics, had been the absence of a body of competent specialists capable of directing and controlling the diverse branches of education. Specialists in the science of education and in educational administration are necessary to resolve the different problems that arise at every level of schooling.\n\nBut where to find the first of these all-important specialists for the central office and for field supervision? The problem was solved using a few already experienced and professionally trained men from the Division of Rural Education and from the former National Service of Vocational Education, and then training others. Moreover, a number of men and women were selected from the Department of Public Instruction and sent abroad on grants for a period of training, varying from one to two years. In the first year alone (between June 1941 and October 1942), more than 80 students were dispatched to the United States, Puerto Rico, Canada and France, and the numbers only continued (more than 200) over the next three years. The majority went to the United States (and a majority of those to Columbia University), to study education, especially the following branches: primary, secondary, vocational, physical education, administration, statistics, the teaching of English, and the teaching of music. The aim was to increase their competence and professionalism. About 95% of those receiving grants were chosen among teachers, supervisors, directors, principals, administrators and statisticians already in service. During this same period, about 150 other students traveled abroad, mostly to the U.S., to study in various other fields, including law, sanitary engineering, public health, military sciences, architecture, civil engineering, economics, agriculture, veterinary sciences, labor inspection, anthropology, social insurance, and various trades.\n\nAccording to the facts revealed in the comprehensive survey, nearly 50% of school locations were in horrible condition, and the best rooms in these schools were often used not as classrooms but as residences for the school directors and teachers. Almost all the State school buildings were rehabilitated. Schools housed in rented buildings were moved to better quarters. Small schools in one town or in a section of a town were consolidated into larger and more efficient units, and there were some new buildings as well. The Standard Fruit and Steamship Co. generously undertook to erect a building to house the \"Lycée\" Saint-Marc, and O.J. Brandt, a British industrialist of Jamaican origin living in Port-au-Prince, also generously donated $10,000 for a laboratory building, inaugurated in 1945, at the \"Lycée\" Pétion; this was the first private-sector donation to the public sector. About four acres of land were purchased in the middle of the capital city for a new girls' \"lycée,\" and by the end of 1945, approximately $14,000 had been saved up to be put toward the construction cost.\n\nThe survey also indicated that special attention needed to be given to the appalling condition of school furniture. Consequently, old furniture was repaired, and new furniture such as desks and benches was added to all the schools. Almost all the blackboards had to be blackened. School materials (e.g., pencils, books, chalk, paper and blackboard erasers), which had often been non-existent, were now provided. New or repaired machines and tools were supplied to the vocational schools, which prior to this administration had had practically none.\n\nA new curriculum and new methods of teaching were introduced. Students were encouraged to engage in reflection and real understanding of subjects taught, rather than in \"brain cramming.\" Furthermore, they needed to embrace as quickly as possible the techniques and methods used in the technological civilization of the era. As a result, the teaching of natural sciences was improved and reinforced in the secondary schools, as was the teaching of social sciences and modern languages (English and Spanish). In fact, the reorganized study of English, which was made mandatory, was considered one of the Department's most important achievements. A course in Haitian literature was added. Programs in folklore, music and the arts were inaugurated, helping to develop and promote Haitian culture that would blend together the country's roots with elements of its French heritage and borrowings from its Latin American neighbors. There were also courses in the history of Latin America and the economic history of the area, and exchanges with Haiti's Spanish-speaking neighbors. Calisthenics (which had been extra-curricular prior to October 1941) were now compulsory. Circulars were sent to teachers in all the urban schools showing them how they and their students were to do these exercises. Team sports and recreational games were made part of the school program. Civics was introduced into the curriculum of all primary, vocational and secondary schools to instill pride in being Haitian. For the first time since Independence, the nation's flag appeared outside each school, and the students sang the national anthem every morning. Arbor Day was also celebrated every May. A doctor was assigned to each school to inspect infirmaries and provide examinations of teachers and students. Libraries in the country's leading cities and towns were improved. This included placing the National Library (\"Bibliothèque nationale\") in Port-au-Prince under the control of the Division of Urban Education and installing a new director. Moreover, a special section devoted to Haitian literature by Haitians was inaugurated. All these many changes allowed for order and discipline in the administration and functioning of the education system.\n\nThe establishment of a University of Haiti had been voted upon by the legislature as far back as 1920, but no plan had been put into motion. More than 20 years later, steps were finally taken towards its organization. The Law School became the Faculty of Law, and it was given a new director. The laws and rules of admission of students, exams, etc., were strictly observed. The library was organized on a serious basis, both in furnishings and in books and publications. A new Faculty of Sciences was formed, to which were annexed the School of Engineering and the School of Surveying. A new law was then passed inaugurating the University of Haiti, with Dartigue named as Acting Rector (in addition to all his ministerial responsibilities), and stating the general rules for its organization. The Faculty of Medicine and the School of Agriculture, which were not under the direct administration of the Department of Public Instruction, were \"affiliated\" with the University, and the Dean and Director of these respective institutions became members of the University Council of Deans (\"Conseil des Doyens\"). A cultural agreement was signed with the French Government providing for a French Institute (\"Institut français en Haïti\") in Port-au-Prince, which would place a number of French professors at the disposal of the university without cost to the Haitian Government. (This followed the establishment in 1942 of the Haitian-American Institute to promote better relations between the two countries, a program of educational cooperation that would furnish American specialists to teach in Haiti and to improve the Haitian educational system. Furthermore, it provided grants for Haitians to study in the U.S. and Puerto Rico.) Plans were made to include in the university a teacher-training program for prospective secondary-school teachers. At the time of the enactment of this law, a site close to the Faculties of Law and Medicine was acquired at a cost of $9,000, and an architectural contest was held to design a University Center with an administration building, library, auditorium, and small dormitory with a cafeteria. After the prizes had been given out for the contest, there was, in December 1945, about $15,000 on deposit for the project, more than necessary to cover the cost of the Administration Building.\n\nBetween 1960 and 1971, 158 new public schools were built. Private education represented 20% of school enrollment in 1959–60. After his son Jean-Claude \"Baby Doc\" Duvalier took over in 1971, the public sector continued to stagnate, but the private sector accelerated partly due to a rule instituted by Baby Doc that religious missionaries were required to build an affiliated school with any new church. By 1979–80 57% of enrollment in primary education, and 80% in secondary education was private. During the Duvalier era a number of qualified teachers left the country to escape political repression. During the 1980s, the average annual growth rates in private and public enrollment were 11% and 5%, respectively.\n\nThe expansion of private schools increased further after the end of the Duvalier regime in 1986, as many religious communities established their own educational institutions. The years 1994–1999 were a peak period for school construction and the private sector has been growing exponentially since.\n\nThough the Constitution requires that a public education be offered free to all people, the Haitian government has been unable to fulfill this obligation. It spends about 10% of the federal budget on the country's elementary and secondary schools. Out of the 67% enrollment rate for elementary school, 70% continue on to the third grade. 21.5% of the population, age 5 and older, receive a secondary level education and 1.1% at the university level (1.4% for men compared to 0.7% for women). Nearly 33% of children between the ages of 6 and 12 (500,000 children) do not attend school, and this percentage climbs to 40% for children ages 5 to 15 which accounts for approximately one million children. The dropout rate is particularly high at 29% in the first basic cycle. Close to 60% of children drop out of school before receiving their primary education certificate. Of the two million children enrolled in the basic level, 56% are at the required age for the first cycle (ages 6 to 11). While the mandated age for entering grade 1 is 6, the actual mean age is nearly 10, and students in grade 6 are on average almost 16, which is 5 years older than expected. 83% of those ages 6–14 attended school in 2005. These rates are much lower for the poor.\n\nWith the exception of higher education, private schools in Haiti account for 80% of total enrollments and serve the majority of Haitian students. According to Wolff there are three main types of schools that make up the private sector. The first and largest type of private schools are for-profit private schools run by entrepreneurs. These schools have very few, if any, books and unqualified teachers and school directors. They are popularly known as \"écoles borlettes,\" which translates to \"lottery schools,\" because \"only by chance do the children learn anything.\"\n\nThe second type of private schools are those run by religious organizations such as Catholic and Evangelical churches, as well as some nonsectarian schools. The Ministry of National Education at the time of the 2010 earthquake reported that Christian missionaries provide about 2,000 primary schools educating 600,000 students – about a third of the population that is school age. Some of these schools offer a better quality of education than for-profit schools do, but they often have risky conditions and staff with no professional capabilities.\n\nThe final type of private school composes of \"community schools,\" which are financed by whatever funds the local community can mobilize. They tend to be of very poor quality, worse than for-profit schools, but they do charge very low fees.\n\nA handful of private schools in Haiti, mostly clustered around the capital city, Port-au-Prince, and accessible to the rich (except for limited scholarship fund opportunities), offer education with relatively high quality standards.\n\nFurthermore, three-fourths of all private schools operate with no certification or license from the Ministry of National Education. This literally means that anyone can open a school at any level of education, recruit students and hire teachers without having to meet any minimum standards.\n\nThe majority of schools in Haiti do not have adequate facilities and are under-equipped. According to the 2003 school survey, 5% of schools were housed in a church or an open-air shaded area. Some 58% do not have toilets and 23% have no running water. 36% of schools have libraries. The majority of workers, about 80% do not meet the existing criteria for the selection of training programs or are not accepted in these programs because of the lack of space in professional schools. 6 out of every 1,000 workers in the labor market have a diploma or certificate in a technical or professional field. In addition, 15% of teachers at the elementary level have basic teaching qualifications, including university degrees. Nearly 25% have not attended secondary school. More than half of the teachers lack adequate teacher training or have had no training at all. There is also a high attrition of teachers, as many teachers leave their profession for alternative better paying jobs. Sometimes they are not paid due to insufficient government funds.\n\nAnthropologist Paul Farmer states that an underlying problem, negatively affecting Haiti's education system, is structural violence. He says that Haiti illustrates how prevailing societal factors, such as racism, pollution, poor housing, poverty, and varying forms of social disparity, structural violence limits the children of Haiti, particularly those living in rural areas or coming from lower social classes, from enrolling into school and receiving proper education. Farmer has suggested that by addressing unfavorable social phenomena, such as poverty and social inequality, the negative impacts of structural violence on education can be reduced and that improvements to the nation's educational standards and literacy rates can be attained.\n\nEducation in Haiti is valued. Literacy is a mark of some prestige. Students wear their school uniforms with pride. When Haitians are able to devote any income for schooling, it tends to take a higher proportion of their income. as opposed to most other countries. There is a disconnect between the high opinion of education and educational attainment.\n\nIncreasing a family's income would appear to solve the problem of insufficient family funds to pay for schooling.In reality, though, there are a confluence of systems and actors in Haiti’s educational sphere that need to be taken into consideration.\n\nLocale needs to be considered – depending on whether or not the community is urban or rural.\n\nThere are the different actors – students, families, schools, teachers,curriculum, the government, and NGOs. These are briefly some of the issues that affect the various actors:\n\nStudents may delay their entry to school. They may be obliged to repeat grades. Sometimes they drop out.\n\nTeachers may be under-qualified. They may be underpaid.\n\nThere may be insufficient schools in an area. They may lack adequate facilities. The expense of attendance may exceed a families resources. There are some families that spend 40% of their income on school expenses says Education Minister Nesmy Manigat.\n\nCurriculum mismatches may occur. For example, the language of instruction is typically in French. The vast majority of students speak only Creole. French instruction is useful in producing students who will be able to attend a university in a French-speaking country such as France or Canada. There is limited educational opportunities for students who do not want to attend university, or who want to attend but cannot afford it.\n\nThe Government provides few public schools. They are vastly outnumbered by private schools. The government is unable to enforce its desired policies with respect to education.\nThis inability has a myriad of ramifications. For example, the Haitian educational system has two exams that the government requires for a student to be promoted to the next grade. These exams are taken at the end of the 5th and 7th grades. However, many schools require exams at the end of every school year. The successful result will allow a promotion to the next grade- this includes public as well as private schools.\n\nThe students are required to pay a fee to take the exams. If the fee is not paid, the student does not pass to the next grade regardless of how well they did during the school year. In rural areas, family income is greatest at the beginning of the school year when the harvest is in. It is easier to have children start school than finish. For families whose children do not get promoted, school fees must still be paid for the grade that is being repeated. This doubles the cost per grade or even more if the exam fees are once more not paid at the end of the year. This scenario is more likely for lower income families who can least afford the increased cost.\n\nA solution to this issue of less family funds at the end of the school year that Lunde proposes is a change in the banking system. She suggests that access to loans at the end of the year based on anticipated harvest of the next year may help in these instances. This is an example of digging deep through a system’s issues and coming up with a possible solution that does not appear on the face of it to be connected to the problem.\n\nAnother solution to one of the key problems and the main bottleneck – teacher quality and quantity – is using the Diaspora. The World Bank estimates that 8 out of 10 college educated Haitians live outside the country. A way to attract them back to Haiti would be to offer dual citizenship.\n\nA number of schools are run by religious organizations but many more are run as a business to make a profit. \"The consequence of the privatization of education is that private households are carrying the economic burden of both the real cost of education and the private actor’s profit\" Haiti has the highest percentage of private schools than any other country.\n\nRepeating grades leads to a wider range of abilities in the classroom, making it that much more difficult teaching. This taxes an already unqualified teacher’s abilities. Often teachers are only a few grades ahead of the students they are teaching. Public school teachers typically are more qualified than private school teachers.There are no laws or regulations with respect to setting up a school so anyone can do it and begin teaching.\n\nThere is a lack of schools in Haiti – insufficient schools given the number of potential students. One of the results of this is that it can be a long walk to school in the countryside, in the dark – a walk one way of 2 hours is not uncommon.Parents can be reluctant to send a 6 year old that far on their own or even an older girl – there are safety concerns.If the child does walk a long distance, they are often too tired to pay attention and may even fall asleep in class. The time getting to and from school also cuts into the time to help the family at home. If the parents are relying on the child’s labor, this long walk can be a disincentive to enrollment. Delaying school enrollment leads to students starting school overaged which in turn has its own issues.\n\nSchools can be selective about who they admit. A number of them will only admit children who read and write already. This has made a big demand for pre-schools and creates one more hurdle to education for the lower income families. The best preschools cost more than the best private primary schools. Education Minister Nesmy Manigat has set a new policy that disallows preschool graduations - a practice that has been to raise revenue rather than academic standards.\n\nFamilies use different strategies to provide education despite the disincentives. Parents may focus their educational funds on the one child who appears to be the most promising academically. Or in the interests of fairness, allow one child to go to school, alternating children each year until all have had their chance and then repeat the cycle as funds allow. Since it may take at least 4 years to learn to read and write, dropping out before the first cycle is complete, typically makes an almost total loss of the money spent on that child's education.\n\nGiven the lack of schools for the number of children who want education, there is a high demand for seats even if a family has the money to pay for school fees. At this point, it becomes a case of who they know – personal connections become necessary. Having connections to a Marraine or Parraine (Godmother or Godfather) who can influence a school's decision to enroll your child is vital. There may actually be a number of influencers in chain – that all must be paid a fee – in order to secure a seat.\n\nThe 2010 Haiti earthquake that struck on January 12, 2010 has exacerbated the already constraining factors on Haiti's educational system. It is estimated that approximately 1.3 million children and youth under 18 were directly or indirectly affected. Nearly 4,200 schools were destroyed affecting nearly 50% of Haiti's total school and university population, and 90% of students in Port-au-Prince. Of this population, 700,000 were primary school-age children between the ages of 6 and 12 years old. The earthquake caused death and injury to thousands of students and hundreds of professors and school administrators, however the actual number of casualties is unknown. Most schools, including those that were minimally or not structurally affected at all, were closed for many months following the earthquake. More than a year since the earthquake occurred, many schools still remain closed and, in many cases, tents and other semi-permanent structures have become temporary replacements for damaged or closed schools. By early 2011, more than one million people, approximately 380,000 of whom are children, remained in crowded internally displaced people camps.\n\nThe Haitian Ministry of National Education estimates that the earthquake affected 4,992 (23%) of the nation's schools. Higher education institutions were hit especially hard, with 87% gravely damaged or completely demolished. In addition, the Ministry of National Education building was completely destroyed. The cost of destruction and damage to establishments and equipment at all levels of the education system is estimated at 478.9 million USD. Another residual effect has been the number of children disabled by resulting injuries from the earthquake. These children are now experiencing permanent disabilities, and many schools lack the resources to properly attend to them.\n\nWhile the Haitian state continues to rebuild the nation's infrastructure following the 2010 earthquake, private institutions are successfully educating Haitians by following a model of solidarity and subsidiarity. The Catholic Church remains the largest provider of education in Haiti, running 15% of schools nationally. The majority of the 2,315 Catholic schools are attached to a parish or congregation.\n\nAn example of a successful model is Louverture Cleary School (LCS), a Catholic, tuition-free, co-educational secondary boarding school supported by The Haitian Project, Inc. In 2017, the school achieved a 100% pass rate on Haiti’s baccalauréat exam, adding to its historic pass rate of 98%. The school takes a holistic approach to educating talented student’s from the poorest neighborhoods in Port-au-Prince and runs an Office for External Affairs to provide job training and support for its graduates. Additionally, the office runs one of Haiti’s largest university scholarship programs, providing university support to well over 100 LCS graduates in any given year. As a result, over 90% of LCS alumni are either working or attending university in Haiti. They are sought after employees who earn an average of 15x the per-capita income of Haiti.\n\nAnother success is the Haitian Education and Leadership Program (H.E.L.P. ) This is a scholarship program which enrolls 100 students per year in Haitian universities and has had significant success in guiding students through university and avoiding brain drain. The university graduate rate for Haiti is 40% but for H.E.L.P. it is 84%. The employment rate is 50% for Haiti but 98% for H.E.L.P. And though only 16% of Haitian university graduates remain in Haiti after graduation, 90% of H.E.L.P graduates remain in Haiti.\n\nFormal education in Haiti begins at preschool, which is followed by 9 years of Fundamental Education (first, second and third cycles). Secondary education comprises 4 years of schooling. Starting at the second cycle of Fundamental Education, students have the option of following vocational training programs. Higher education follows completion of secondary education, and can be a wide range of years depending on program of study. The World Innovation Summit for Education (WISE) uses data from Haiti's 2002–2003 census administered by the Ministry of National Education and Vocational Training (MENFP), the 2011 Presidential Commission on Education and Training (GTEF), the Haitian Institute of Statistics and Information Technology and the National Institute of Vocational Training (INFP) to provide background information on the educational system in Haiti which is described below.\n\nAlthough not compulsory, preschool is formally recognized for children between the ages of 3 and 5. Around 705,000 children below 6 years of age, representing 23% of the age group, have access to preschool education. The majority of preschools are in elementary schools, and most of these are private and concentrated in the West department. Tuition costs have increased significantly over the last decade for preschools, going from 1628 gourdes (roughly $41) in 2004, to 4675 gourdes (roughly $117) in 2007, a 187% increase in just 3 years.\nElementary education is compulsory for children between 6 and 11. It consists of 3 cycles of 3 years each, which altogether is called \"fundamental education\". The 3rd cycle is completed either in elementary or in secondary school. Enrollment has seen a steady improvement in the last decade. According to IHSI, the Haitian Institute of Statistics and Information Technology, school enrollment has gone from 40.1% in 1990 to 86.7% in 2002, representing 2.1 million children. Although tuition in public schools is legally free for the first two cycles of fundamental education, equivalent to elementary education, 81.5% of these children go to private schools and pay fees, often due to the limited availability of public schools. One hundred forty five districts have no public school and 92% of the 15,268 elementary schools in Haiti are private. Tuition costs have increased significantly over the last decade. Average tuition for 2nd cycle classes in elementary school has almost tripled since 2000, sometimes going up to 92,500 gourdes ($2313).\n\nLess than 22% of children move on from elementary to secondary education. Of this 22%, 75% go to private schools who charge fees. Of the approximately 2,190 secondary schools in Haiti, 90.5% of secondary schools are private and 78% of them are in urban areas. Roughly half of all schools are in the West Department. There is a large discrepancy between the West and other regions in Haiti. Tuition costs have increased significantly over the last decade. Average tuition went from 5,000 gourdes ($125) in 2004 to 7,800 gourdes ($195) in 2007, representing an increase of 56% in 3 years.\n\nGiven the lack of access to education generally and the cost of attending university, less than 1% of Haiti’s young people will go on to receive a university degree in Haiti. Students fortunate enough to pass Haiti’s baccalauréat exam often require scholarships or other types of financial support to attend university. One of the largest university scholarship programs in Haiti is run by Louverture Cleary School, a Catholic, tuition-free, co-educational secondary boarding school supported by The Haitian Project, Inc. The school’s Office for External Affairs provides scholarships to half of each graduating class, supporting well over 100 alumni on scholarships in any given year.\n\nHigher education in Haiti consists of 4 regional public universities including the State University of Haiti (Université d'État d'Haiti, UEH), 4 other public institutions each associated with their respective ministries, and the private sector. Public universities require an annual fee of 3,000 gourdes ($46.80). The State University of Haiti, in Port-au-Prince, is the largest public university in Haiti and had 10,130 students enrolled in 2008, with 2,340 of them being first year students. Estimates on the number of students enrolled in higher education vary greatly from 100,000 to 180,000, leading to about 40% to 80% of students in the private sector. Many private universities and institutions have emerged in the last 30 years and in total there are around 200, 80% of which are in Port-au-Prince. 54 out of these 200 schools are officially approved by MENFP.\n\nA list of some universities in Haiti includes:\n\nVocational training in Haiti is given at different levels between the second half of secondary school ( 10 years of education) and the first half of university (13 years of education). Starting at the second cycle of fundamental education, students have the option of following vocational training instead of pursuing the formal education cycles. It is given through different formats and at different levels and it includes: technical education (EET) and professional education (EEP), housework skills (CM) and professional training (CFP). GTEF estimates the number of students to be in vocational training to be about 21,090.\n\n\nEducation in Haiti is governed by the Haitian Ministry of National Education and Professional Training (Ministère de l'Education Nationale et de la Formation Professionnelle, or MENFP). Even though most of the schools in Haiti are private, the MENFP is charged with regulating the entire educational system. The Ministry of National Education has two main goals: (1) to provide educational services to its citizens and (2) to play a normative and regulatory role. However, the MNEFP has been ineffective in fulfilling these goals because it is overstretched and lacks enough support. For example, there is now approximately one inspector per six thousand students who is responsible for providing accreditation, pedagogical supervision, and administrative support.\n\nThe MENFP plays a significant role in the determination of curriculum content, regulations, validation of degrees and certificates, and inspections. Organizationally, the ministry does not adequately separate the functions of governance and policy making from the functions of management. There is no strong and independent policy making body. In an effort to decentralize the education sector, a limited amount of responsibility and authority has been given to departments of Haiti (Haiti's ten geographic regions), school district offices, and inspection zones.\n\nThe Haitian government, mainly the Ministry of National Education is not in a position to close deficient schools because it is not equipped to take on the additional responsibility, nor does it have the resources or capacity to do so. After a peak of 19% in 1987–88 and 22% in 1994–95, the percentage of Haiti's national budget allocated to education declined from 17% to 10% between 2001 and 2010 with 20% of education-related expenditures reaching rural areas, which is where 70% of Haiti's population is found. This figure is low compared with other countries that are comparable according to the Human Development Index (HDI), which puts Haiti in 145th place out of 169 countries. However, Haiti receives international aid which supplements, to a certain extent, the insufficient educational budget. In 2006 the country received $10.4 million to support basic education programs and $2.5 million to support higher education programs. According to USAID, ongoing US-supported education programs have lowered dropout rates and raised the performance of more than 75,000 Haitian youth.\n\nThe substantial growth of the private sector, despite the constitutional guarantee of free education, indicates that the reality is that providing free education for all is very expensive. The majority of private schools do not receive any government subsidizes. There is no government scholarship program to alleviate the burden on poor families. Help comes from the \"Fonds de Parrainage\", a private sector foundation which offers scholarships to needy children enrolled in eligible private schools. The annual number of beneficiaries is around 13,000, representing a mere 1.3% of the student population enrolled in private schools.\n\nFinancial support from the government is a salary subsidy covering approximately 500 teachers working full-time in private religious schools. This represents 2.5% of the private sector teaching force. The public schools have collected fees because government funding has been insufficient. It had become common practice for school principals to require a parental financial contribution from each student. Thus, for many parents, it did not make as much financial difference to put their children in public or private schools. When President Aristide returned from exile, he decided that public schools would no longer collect fees. This decision actually had a negative effect because it left public schools more destitute. It is clear that the growth of the private sector has become a substitution for public investment, as opposed to an addition.\n\nDespite the severe deficiencies of the Haitian education sector, many Haitian leaders have attempted to make improving education an important national goal. The country has attempted three major education reform efforts in recent years including the Bernard Reform of 1978, The National Plan on Education and Training (NPET) of 1997, and The Presidential Commission for Education in Haiti of 2008. More recently, following the 2010 earthquake, Haiti has partnered with the Inter-American Development Bank to propose a new 5-year educational plan.\n\nThe Bernard Reform of 1978 was an attempt to modernize and make the educational system more efficient. It was also an attempt at capacity building to satisfy the educational needs of the country despite its economic limitations. The Bernard Reform sought to introduce vocational training programs designed as alternatives to traditional education in order to align the school structure with labor market demands. The reform also restructured and expanded the secondary school system by separating it into academic and technical tracks. In addition, Haitian Creole began to be utilized in classrooms as the language of instruction in the first 4 grades of primary school during this time period. French and Creole are both official languages of Haiti. All Haitians speak Creole. The most privileged Haitians speak French. The practice of using French rather than Creole in the classroom discriminates against the lower socioeconomic classes and the Bernard Reform was an attempt at addressing this issue.\n\nAs part of the reform, a program was implemented in 1979 with the help of the World Bank to make Creole the first language of instruction rather than French. One thousand students were chosen to participate. During the first four years of school, all subjects were taught in Creole. In the third and fourth year, students were taught how to read and write in French. In the fifth year all teaching was done in French. The program was canceled in 1982 even though it was a great success. The elite had put pressure on the government to eliminate the program; they were concerned that the better educated citizens would be a threat to their power.\n\nIn addition to failing to make Creole the initial language of instruction there were two other serious failures: lengthy delays in the implementation of new the curriculum and inadequate resources and infrastructure to support the proposed changes. An issue that also became prevalent was that the majority of parents preferred to see their children attend universities because they saw the technical schools as low-prestige institutions. As a result, the labor market lacked sufficient jobs for new graduates of liberal arts programs, and consequently salaries lagged behind expectations.\n\nThe National Plan on Education and Training was a plan that introduced a shift away from the French educational model. The French educational model was one characterized by a highly centralized bureaucracy, which was teacher-centered and saw students as passive learners. The NPET of 1997 marked a shift to a model of participatory learning based on student-centered approaches. The NPET also shifted to a new paradigm of citizenship education aimed at developing civic knowledge and attitudes that would promote unity and an appreciation of the diversity in Haitian society, providing the foundation for an inclusive national identity.\n\nOne of the principal goals of this plan was to uphold the Constitution and ensure that primary education would be made compulsory and free, neither of which have been realized to date. The national education budget increased from 9% of the national budget in 1997 to 22% in 2000. This paid for programs to provide school lunches, uniforms, and bus transportation. Additionally, in 2002 the government began a literacy campaign, facilitated by 30,000 literacy monitors and the distribution of 700,000 literacy manuals. Overall, school attendance rose from 20% in 1994 to 64% in 2000.\n\nThe NPET, however, was limited in its achievements. The goal of making primary education free and compulsory has not been met. Primary education remains beyond the reach of most Haitians, because they are highly privatized and very expensive. In addition, there has been minimal decentralization of the educational sector because there are fears that the decentralization process will lead to fragmentation rather than resolve the problems of social polarization. Furthermore, the NPET has not been successful in creating a space for communities to express their opinions through parent-teacher associations or other mechanisms.\n\nThe Presidential Commission for Education reported their recommendations to outgoing President René Préval and the Ministry of National Education on recommendations for a new national curriculum. The primary goals of the commission were to provide 100% enrollment of all school-age children, a free education to all, including textbooks and materials, and a hot meal daily for each child. Lumarque stated that accelerated teacher training was essential for the attainment of these goals. In order to adequately reflect the needs of the people the commission traveled throughout the country asking parents and community leaders what they desired most for their children. When the national curriculum plan is finalized, all public schools and those private schools that choose to participate will be expected to begin utilizing standardized teaching materials in addition to standardized test methods.\n\nAfter Haiti's 2010 earthquake, the President of Haiti, René Préval in May 2010 gave the Inter-American Development Bank, IDB the mandate to work with the Education Ministry and the National Commission in preparing a major reform of the education system in a 5-year plan. This 5 year, 4.2 billion USD plan calling for private schools to become publicly funded which would increase the access of education for all children. The plan hopes to have all children enrolled in free education up to 6th grade by 2015, and 9th grade by 2020. The IDB has committed 250 million USD of its own grant resources and has pledged to raise an additional 250million USD from third-party donors.\n\nThe first phase of the plan is to subsidize existing private schools. According to the plan, the government would pay the salaries of teachers and administrators participating in the new system. In order to participate in this new system, schools will undergo a certification process to verify the number of students and staff at their school, after which they will receive funding to upgrade facilities and purchase educational materials. This would become the first step towards establishing a tracking mechanism in Haiti. In order to remain certified, schools would have to comply with certain standards, including the adoption of a national curriculum, teacher training and facility improvement programs. The plan will also finance the building of new schools and the use of school spaces to provide services such as nutrition and health care.\n\nCurrently, most private schools serve approximately 100 students; yet they have the capacity for up to 400. The intention of the plan is to eliminate waste and become more efficient in the schooling system. The goal is to eliminate low quality, inefficient schools and consolidate many others over time, and improve the overall quality of education in Haitian schools.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30362806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30362806", "title": "Emma Maria Macfarren", "text": "Emma Maria Macfarren\n\nEmma Maria Macfarren (née \"Emma Marie Bennett\") (19 June 1824 – 9 November 1895) was an English pianist and composer who used the pseudonym Jules Brissac.\n\nShe was born in London, and in 1846 married John Macfarren, brother of composer George Alexander Macfarren. She toured in the United States of America between 1862 and 1873 with her \"Mornings at the Piano\" lecture series and published a number of original songs and transcriptions. She died in London.\n\nMacfarren was known for popular piano works. Selected works for piano under the pseudonym Jules Brissac include:\n\n"}
{"id": "3167116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3167116", "title": "Excellence", "text": "Excellence\n\nExcellence is a talent or quality which is unusually good and so surpasses ordinary standards. It is also used as a standard of performance as measured e.g. through economic indicators.\n\nIn modern public relations and marketing, \"excellence\" is frequently criticized as a buzzword that tries to convey a good impression often without imparting any concrete information (e.g. \"center for excellence in ...\", \"business excellence\", etc.).\n\nThe Ancient Greeks had a concept of \"arete\" which meant an outstanding fitness for purpose. This occurs in the works of Aristotle and Homer.\n\nAnother related concept was \"eudaimonia\" which was the happiness which resulted from a life well-lived, being prosperous and fulfilled. The equivalent concept in Muslim philosophy is \"ihsan\".\n\nStudies have shown that the most important way to achieve excellent performance in fields such as sport, music, professions and scholarships is to practice. Achievement of excellence in such fields commonly requires approximately 10 years of dedication, comprising about 10,000 hours of effort.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36166949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36166949", "title": "Gabriele Hooffacker", "text": "Gabriele Hooffacker\n\nGabriele Hooffacker (born February 10, 1959) is a German journalist, journalism teacher and a professor for specifics of media at Leipzig University of Applied Science. Her research interests are online media as well as interactive and participative formats in journalism.\n\nGabriele Hooffacker studied Historical Sciences, German studies and economics at the Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich. Meanwhile, she was employee of Monumenta Germaniae Historica.\n\nShe has been dealing with the new media since the early eighties. In 1987 she founded CL-Net (later part of the APC), a computer-based grassroots organization for citizens who wanted to use the internet as a tool for political and cultural interaction. In 1988 she set up her own company, now called Foundation Journalists-Academy Dr. Hooffacker, which is a Journalism school and a consultancy on new media issues. Her works include several publications on online journalism, teaching journalism and the societal dimension of the internet.\n\nHooffacker writes for the online magazines onlinejournalismus.de, Telepolis and others. She deals primarily with the themes of teaching journalism, online journalism, Internet culture, Internet and right-wing radicalism. Hooffacker is member of the jury of “Alternativer Medienpreis”. She publishes the book series \"Journalistische Praxis\", which was founded by Walther von La Roche. In 2018, Gabriele Hooffacker is co-founder of the bilingual journalism journal \"Journalistik\" for journalism research.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13306447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13306447", "title": "German Institute of Global and Area Studies", "text": "German Institute of Global and Area Studies\n\nThe GIGA German Institute of Global and Area Studies is a German research institute. It analyses political, economic and social developments in Africa, Asia, Latin America and the Middle East and combines this analysis with innovative comparative research on international relations, development and globalisation, violence and security, and political systems. The GIGA advises the Federal Foreign Office and other branches of the federal government. Since 2009 it has had an office in Berlin. \n\nThe GIGA is a member of the Leibniz Association.\n\nThe GIGA a leading international research institute for area studies and comparative area studies. It employs approximately 160 people, 90 of whom are political scientists, economists, social scientists, peace and conflict researchers, or historians. The GIGA’s research is organised according to a matrix structure. The academics study the four global regions of\n\nand simultaneously work within the four research programmes on the following issues:\n\n\nThe GIGA was founded in 1964 as the German Overseas Institute (Deutsches Übersee-Institut) by the City of Hamburg and the Hamburg business community. It was initially the umbrella organisation for the Institute of Asian Affairs, the German Orient Institute, the Institute of Latin American Affairs and the Institute of African Affairs.\n\nIn the first decade of this century the German Overseas Institute underwent a transformation that saw the previously relatively autonomous regional institutes united as the GIGA German Institute of Global and Area Studies/Leibniz-Institut für Globale und Regionale Studien in 2007. Only the German Orient Institute did not take part in the fusion. However, the GIGA had already hired many of its employees.\n\nThe GIGA collaborates with numerous renowned universities, research institutes and expert associations around the world. It is represented on the boards of various academic networks, particularly those related to Africa, Asia, Latin America and the Middle East.\n\nThe GIGA is a foundation under civil law and is based in Hamburg. It is jointly funded by the Federal Foreign Office, the Hamburg Ministry of Science and Research and the other federal states. The GIGA also receives external funding, which accounts for around 25 per cent of the total budget.\n\nSince 2014, Prof. Dr. Amrita Narlikar is the president of the GIGA. Together with the president, the GIGA executive board comprises Asia researcher Prof. Dr. Patrick Köllner (GIGA vice president), Middle East academic Dr. André Bank, Africa academic Prof. Dr. Matthias Basedau, Latin America expert Prof. Dr. Sabine Kurtenbach and Head of Finance, Dr. Peter Peetz.\n\nThe GIGA serves as the central coordinator of various academic networks.\n\nThe Institutions for Sustainable Peace (ISP) network undertakes research on measures to promote peace in post-war societies with partners from Sweden, Norway, Switzerland, England and Germany.\n\nThe Land Matrix project is an online platform that collects global data on large-scale land acquisitions. The GIGA maintains the platform and evaluates the data.\n\nThe academics in the Regional Powers Network (RPN) are studying the global rise of the new regional powers. This is a joint project of the GIGA, the University of Oxford and Sciences Po, Paris.\n\nAs of July 2014 the GIGA is coordinating the International Diffusion and Cooperation of Authoritarian Regimes (IDCAR) network, as part of which it is investigating, together with 12 international research institutes, the influence of and cooperation between authoritarian regimes on the international stage.\n\nThe GIGA publishes three open access series: the GIGA Focus, the GIGA Working Papers, and the GIGA Journal Family.\n\n\nIn addition, the GIGA collaborates with other institutions to publish the \"Iberoamericana\" journal and the \"Africa Yearbook\" series.\n\n"}
{"id": "31669011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31669011", "title": "Herbert Scoville Jr. Peace Fellowship", "text": "Herbert Scoville Jr. Peace Fellowship\n\nThe Herbert Scoville Jr. Peace Fellowship is a highly competitive national fellowship program that provides recent college and graduate school alumni with the funding and opportunity to work with senior-level policy experts at one of more than two dozen leading think tanks and advocacy groups in Washington, DC for six to nine months. It was created in 1987 to honor the legacy of Dr. Herbert (Pete) Scoville Jr. Scoville Fellows may focus on arms control and nonproliferation, conflict prevention and resolution, defense budget, diplomacy, environmental and energy security, terrorism prevention, and other international security issues. They attend policy talks, Congressional hearings, coalition meetings, and small group events with experts in government and NGOs arranged by the fellowship, and receive active mentoring and networking from the board of directors and former fellows. \n\nMany Scoville Fellows have gone on to prominent positions in the field of peace and security with the Federal Government, domestic and international NGOs, academia, and media. The fellowship recruits from across the U.S. twice a year and provides a salary, benefits, travel expenses to DC for interviews and moving, in addition to a small stipend for attending conferences, policy courses, and foreign language classes.\n\nHerbert Scoville (1915-1985) was a nuclear arms control activist and held many professional positions related to arms control. Dr. Scoville worked for the National Defense Research Committee, the Atomic Energy Commission, the Department of Defense, helped found the Arms Control Association, and led the Arms Control Project at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. Herbert Scoville was also a graduate of Yale University and the University of Rochester, where he earned a PhD. \n\nDr. Scoville was at the forefront of arms control and nuclear issues and thought it was indispensable to motivate young people to get involved with the topic. The Herbert Scoville Jr. Peace Fellowship celebrates Dr. Scoville's life and career and provides an entrée for recent graduates to begin a career in Washington, DC focusing on international peace and security.\n\nThere are 26 partnering organizations with the Scoville Fellowship:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39418218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39418218", "title": "Hervey De Witt Griswold", "text": "Hervey De Witt Griswold\n\nHervey De Witt Griswold was born on May 24, 1860 in Dryden, New York to Benjamin and Laura Eliza (Hurd) Griswold. He attended Union College in Schenectady, New York from 1881 to 1885, and then went to Union Theological Seminary in New York City from 1885 to 1888. During the following two years Griswold had a fellowship at Oxford and Berlin Universities. Griswold began his 36-year-long career as a missionary in 1890 in Jhansi, India as a representative of the Board of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian Church. In 1894 Griswold became Professor of Philosophy at Forman Christian College in Lahore, India (now Pakistan), teaching English and history there as well. As its librarian Griswold built the Foreman Christian College Library, adding a substantial number of books on religion and philosophy to the collection. Griswold also served as secretary of the India Council of the Presbyterian Missions. In 1900 Griswold received his Ph.D. from Cornell University, based on his thesis on the Indian Philosophy known as Brahman. In 1910 Griswold obtained his Doctor of Divinity. A prolific writer, he wrote about Hinduism and other Indian religions. He also wrote about the Founder of the Ahmadiyya Movement, Mirza Ghulam Ahmad, at a time when Ahmad was alive, and critically analyzed his claims to be the promised Messiah and Mahdi.\n\nIn 1890 Griswold married Frances S. Sheldon. Together they had three children: Laura Katharine; Arthur Sheldon; and Frances Louise. Griswold retired from his missionary work in 1926 and died on May 11, 1945.\n\n1. Brahman by Hervey DeWitt Griswold (Apr 6, 2010)\n\n2. The God Varuna in the Rig Veda by Hervey De Witt. Griswold (Apr 27, 2009)\n\n3. Brahman: A study in the history of Indian philosophy by Hervey De Witt Griswold (Jan 1, 1900) (Vol -1 & Vol – 2 )\n\n4. INSIGHTS INTO MODERN HINDUISM by Hervey Dewitt, Editor Griswold (1934)\n\n5. The Dayanandi interpretation of the word \"deva\" in the Rig Veda by Hervey De Witt Griswold (1897)\n\n6. The problem of the Arya samaj by Hervey De Witt Griswold (1901)\n\n7. India, after the war, in India (After the war series) by Hervey DeWitt Griswold (1919)\n\n8. Mirza Ghulam Ahmad: The Mehdi & Messiah of Qadian by Hervey De Witt Griswold (1902)\n\n9. The Messiah of Qadian: Being a Paper Read Before the Victoria Institute (1905 ) by H. D. (Hervey De Witt) Griswold (Oct 21, 2009)\n\n10. The Radha swami sect: Paper read at the Mussee soorie Conference, 1906 by Hervey De Witt Griswold (1906)\n\n11. The Chet Rami Sect: Paper Read at the Mussoorie Conference, 1904 [1904] by H. D. (Hervey De Witt) Griswold (Dec 15, 2009)\n\n12. The religion of the Rigveda, by Hervey De Witt Griswold (1971)\n\n13. Dr. Griswold's \"Autobiographical Notes, prepared for his descendants\" (247 pp., 1938–40)\n\n14. Catechism on Christian giving by H. D Griswold (1912)\n\n15. Methods of teaching village Christians to read by H. D Griswold (1915)\n\n16. The ancestors and descendants of Edward Griswold of New York by H. D Griswold (2000)\n\n17. The Religion of the Rigveda. The Religious Quest of India by H. D. Griswold (Jan 1, 1923)\n\n18. Village Evangelization (No.2) Being Papers Read at the 17th Annual Meeting of the North India Conference of Christian... by H. D., Editor Griswold (1917)\n\n19. The problem of the Arya Samaj by H. D Griswold (1892)\n\n(List ) \n"}
{"id": "15304364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15304364", "title": "Joanna Klink", "text": "Joanna Klink\n\nJoanna Klink is an American poet. She was born in Iowa City, Iowa. She received an M.F.A. in Poetry from the Iowa Writers' Workshop and a Ph.D. in Humanities from Johns Hopkins University. She has been a member of the poetry faculty at The University of Montana since the fall of 2001. Her most recent book is \"Excerpts from a Secret Prophecy\" (Penguin Books, 2015).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31481752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31481752", "title": "Junior Achievement of South Florida", "text": "Junior Achievement of South Florida\n\nJunior Achievement (JA) was founded in 1919 by Theodore Vail, president of American Telephone & Telegraph; Horace Moses, president of Strathmore Paper Co.; and Senator Murray Crane of Massachusetts. Its first program, The Company Program, was offered to high school students on an after-school basis. In 1975, the organization entered the classroom with the introduction of Project Business for the middle grades. Since then, Junior Achievement has gradually expanded its activities and broadened its scope to encompass an ever-widening student population.\n\nJunior Achievement of South Florida was founded locally in 1959 by the Fort Lauderdale Rotary Club and served just 373 high school students during its first year. Programs now span grades K-12, with age appropriate curricula designed to teach elementary students about their roles as individuals, workers, and consumers and to prepare middle grade and high school students for key economic and workforce issues they will face. Junior Achievement programs reached 44,000 Broward and South Palm Beach County students during the 2009-2010 school year.\n\nJunior Achievement of South Florida offers age-appropriate curricula to ensure that students understand their roles as future members of the business community. The programs are divided into three categories: elementary, middle school and high school.\n\nThe elementary school programs include six sequential themes for kindergarten through fifth-grade students and one capstone experience. Students learn the basic concepts of business and economics and how education is relevant to the workplace. The activities build on studies from each preceding grade and prepare students for secondary school and continued learning. Fifth graders can have the opportunity to work at JA BizTown, a facility on the Broward College campus.\n\nThe middle school programs emphasize the value of workforce readiness, entrepreneurship, and financial literacy. Students are also introduced to many economic concepts and facts about the working world.\n\nThe programs in this level expand upon the concepts that were learned in elementary school and help teens make good decisions about their futures. Junior Achievement’s lessons are meant to supplement standard social studies curricula and develop communication skills. 8th graders have the opportunity to work beyond JA BizTown to JA Finance Park, also on the Broward College campus.\n\nThe high school programs teach students about concepts relating to entrepreneurship, financial literacy, and work readiness. Students are encouraged to make informed decisions about their future, and foster skills that will be useful in the business world. Volunteers aid in these goals by bringing real-life business experience into the classroom, which reinforce the lessons that are taught.\n\nSince its inception, Junior Achievement has been committed to \"experiential learning.\" Taking it to the next level, Junior Achievement of South Florida created the JA World Huizenga center at Broward College that houses two new programs: JA BizTown and JA Finance Park. This dramatic shift forward will significantly transform how every local student is taught to view the world of work, free enterprise and their possibilities for success in it. Through the experiential learning derived from both BizTown and Finance Park, students achieve advanced levels of engagement, reflection, and personal responsibility.\n\nJA BizTown is a miniature city that allows fifth-graders the opportunity to assume roles as proprietors, civic leaders, and consumers. It greatly increases students’ knowledge of the free enterprise system as they learn how to fulfill the goals of satisfying customers, paying-off business loans, and realizing a profit at the conclusion of the business day.\n\nJA Finance Park expands upon the lessons learned in JA BizTown by giving students an identity to manage that includes marital status, number of children, annual income, education attained, and job type. Students take these characteristics into consideration as they prepare budgets that take into consideration housing, food, furniture, insurance, education, automobiles, investments, and more. Providing a real life experience of managing an income and learning to live within your means offers a strong and important lesson on the value of staying in school to maximize earning potential.\n\n"}
{"id": "2978190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2978190", "title": "Józef Bilczewski", "text": "Józef Bilczewski\n\nSaint Józef Bilczewski (26 April 1860 – 20 March 1923) was a Polish Roman Catholic prelate who served as the Archbishop of Lviv from 1900 until his death. He served as a theological and dogmatics professor in the Lviv college after himself having earned two doctorates in the course of his own studies. He earned a reputation as a learned and cultured man; these qualities led to Emperor Franz Joseph I nominating him for the Lviv archdiocese as its head. Pope Leo XIII named him as its archbishop and he set to work prioritizing a range of different pastoral initiatives aimed at revitalizing the faith within people and also prioritizing ecumenical cooperation with other denominations.\n\nBilczewski aided his people throughout the onslaught of World War I organizing relief and food for those displaced and those who became refugees; he likewise aided beggars and the homeless in his archdiocese. In 1918 he did all he could to smooth tensions during the Polish-Ukrainian War and he collaborated with his brother bishops in helping their people when the conflict escalated; he likewise did the same thing during the Bolshevik occupation of Poland and Ukraine while also collaborating with the apostolic nuncio Achille Ratti - the future Pope Pius XI.\n\nHis cause for sainthood commenced in 1944 and he became titled as a Servant of God while the confirmation of his life of heroic virtue allowed for him to be named as Venerable on 18 December 1997. The confirmation of a 1995 miraculous healing enabled Pope John Paul II to preside over Bilczewski's beatification in Lviv on 26 June 2001 while the recognition of another allowed Pope Benedict XVI to canonize him on 23 October 2005 in Saint Peter's Square.\n\nJózef Bilczewski was born in Wilamowice on 26 April 1860 as the eldest of nine children to the peasants Franciszek Biba and Anna Kuczmierczyk.\n\nFrom 1868 until 1872 he attended school in his hometown while he studied later at Wadowice from 1872 until 1880 when he received a diploma. In 1880 he graduated from a local school in Wadowice and commenced his studies for the priesthood in Kraków.\n\nHe received his doctorate from the Jagiellonian and he received his ordination to the priesthood in 1884 from Cardinal Albin Dunajewski. Not long after he received his doctorate in theological studies in Vienna (studied there from 1885–86) in 1886 and started his studies on dogmatics and archeological studies in Rome (at the Gregorian from 1886–87) and in Paris (one semester in 1888). From 1888 to 1890 he worked as a vicar and catechist at Kęty and in 1891 worked as a catechetical assistant in Kraków at the church of Saints Peter and Paul. In 1890 he passed his habilitation at the Jagiellonian and in 1891 he became a professor of dogmatics at the Lviv college. His career progressed at a fast pace as in 1893 he became a common professor and from 1896 to 1897 served as the Dean of the Theological Department. In 1900 he was elected as the rector of that college but gave up the post not long after once Emperor Franz Joseph I selected him on 30 October 1900 to lead the Archdiocese of Lviv as its archbishop; Pope Leo XIII formalized the appointment on 17 December 1900. Bilczewski received his episcopal consecration the next month in the Lviv Cathedral.\n\nHe supported organic work and started an extensive task on the construction of new churches in the area. He initiated the construction of more than 330 churches in his archdiocese including the monumental Saint Elizabeth Church. He also promoted the cultus of Blessed James of Strepar while in 1907 he allowed the Pallottines to settle in his archdiocese. The archbishop also encouraged devotion to the Sacred Heart of Jesus and urged priests to implement Eucharistic Adoration in their parishes. He also organized courses for the priests wanting to be prepared for social work among the poor and financed several Catholic societies. His support for the students made him a popular figure even to other denominations. In 1904 he organized the first Mariological Congress in Poland.\n\nDuring World War I he was one of the people to create committees of relief for the workers of Galicia that the war had affected and had caused food shortages. During the Polish-Ukrainian War in 1918 and the Siege of Lviv he was responsible for the organization of food being sent for the besieged area. Bilczewski did his best alongside Venerable Andrzej Sheptytsky to help mediate and smooth tensions though this did not quite achieve positive results and the two worked with the apostolic nuncio Achille Ratti - future pope - in this regard. He also made several 'ad limina' visits to Rome to visit Leo XIII and Pope Pius X as well as Pope Benedict XV. His help for the poor and the homeless was awarded and the homeless themselves titled him as the \"patron of louts\" in 1917. From 1918 to 1921 his archdiocese lost 120 priests.\n\nHe died on 20 March 1923 due to a pernicious anemia which had first struck him not long before on 18 January; Pope Pius XI hailed him as one of the greatest bishops in the world and since 2001 his heart has been put in an urn and moved to the Lviv Cathedral. Since 20 March 1928 a monument to him has been in the cathedral.\n\nIn 1922 he received the second tier to the Cross of Valor and on 2 May 1922 was awarded the Grand Cross level of the Order of Polonia Restituta. He received an 'honoris causa' doctorate from the Warsaw college in 1921.\n\nThe beatification process was introduced under Pope Pius XII on 2 July 1944 and the late archbishop became titled as a Servant of God as a result; the informative phase of the process did not open until 1952 and it later concluded in 1962 after documents and witness interrogatories were collected. These were placed in several boxes to be sent to Rome to the Congregation for Rites though the cause remained silent until 8 June 1990 when the Congregation for the Causes of Saints validated the informative phase. The postulation later submitted their Positio dossier to the C.C.S. in 1997 for assessment while it received the approval of theologians on 16 May 1997 and that of the C.C.S. on 11 November 1997. The confirmation of his model life of heroic virtue allowed for Pope John Paul II to title him as Venerable on 18 December 1997.\n\nBilczewski's beatification depended upon the approval of a miraculous healing. Marcin Gawlik (b. 1986) - aged nine at the time - suffered from third degree burns that all but disappeared on 24 July 1995 after appeals for Bilczewski's intercession. This was investigated in the diocese of origin before it was sent to the C.C.S. for validation and the approval of both a medical board and a commission of theologians. The C.C.S. approved this healing on 23 April 2001 as did John Paul II on 24 April 2001 who confirmed the beatification would take place while on his visit to the Ukraine. John Paul II beatified the late archbishop at the Lviv Hippodrome on 26 June 2001.\n\nOne final miracle was required for sainthood. One case was investigated and sent to the C.C.S. who validated this process before medical experts approved the miraculous nature of the healing on 24 June 2004. Theologians determined this healing came as a result of Bilczewski's intercession on 21 September 2004 while the C.C.S. approved the findings of the two previous boards on 9 November 2004. John Paul II approved this healing - therefore the canonization also - on 20 December 2004. Cardinal Angelo Sodano formalized the date on 24 February 2005 at a consistory representing the ill John Paul II who died over a month later. The new Pope Benedict XVI celebrated the canonization in Saint Peter's Square on 23 October 2005.\n\nBilczewski has been the patron of his hometown since 5 October 2013. He is also the patron for beggars and homeless people as well as teachers and his archdiocese.\n\n"}
{"id": "8203828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8203828", "title": "Kira Hall", "text": "Kira Hall\n\nKira Hall is professor of Linguistics and Anthropology, as well as director for the Program in Culture, Language, and Social Practice (CLASP), at the University of Colorado at Boulder.\n\nThe majority of Hall's work focuses on language in India and the United States, with special attention to organizations of gender and sexuality. She is currently writing a book on the linguistic and sociocultural practices of Hindi-speaking Hijras in northern India, a transgender group often discussed in the anthropological literature as a \"third sex.\"\n\nShe is well known for her contributions to research on language and identity within sociocultural linguistics, and especially the tactics of intersubjectivity framework developed with Mary Bucholtz.\n\nHall received her Ph.D. in Linguistics in 1995 from the University of California at Berkeley, and has held previous academic positions at Stanford, Yale, and Rutgers Universities.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43460988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43460988", "title": "Laboratory of Analysis-Research in quantitative Economics", "text": "Laboratory of Analysis-Research in quantitative Economics\n\nThe Laboratory of Analysis-Research in Quantitative Economics (, LAREQ) is a project created in 2012 at the initiative of Jean-Paul K. Tsasa to propose a new order in research in economics departments of the congolese universities.\nLAREQ is composed of academics and researchers from three main Congolese universities including: University of Kinshasa, Protestant University at Congo, and Catholic University of Congo, and it is directed by a Resident Coordinator and a Deputy Coordinator.\n\nThe general objective of LAREQ is to play an active role in the development and application of modern macroeconomic modeling in developing countries in Africa.\n\nThis general goal can be broken down into two more specific objectives:\n\nLAREQ publishes papers, under the rubric of \"One pager\" for undergraduate and graduate students, and belongs to the Congolese research network in quantitative economics. Since 2013, LAREQ began publish the Makroeconomica Review, a journal devoted to the development and applications of Dynamic stochastic general equilibrium models in developing countries in Africa.\n\nLAREQ organizes training, workshops and seminars and participates in the supervision of master and PhD dissertations.\n\nThe LAREQ awards annually the LAREQ Medal of Excellence for outstanding research accomplishments in economics to an African mathematician or economist under the age of 30. The objective of this award is to encourage research at an early age. The winner for 2014 is the Ivorian economist engineer Kone N'Gole.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51065745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51065745", "title": "Lean Launchpad", "text": "Lean Launchpad\n\nLean LaunchPad is an entrepreneurship methodology created by Steve Blank to test and develop business models based on querying and learning from customers. It is based on the scientific method and combines experiential learning with the three building blocks of a successful lean startup: Alexander Osterwalder's \"Business Model Canvas\", Steve Blank's \"Customer Development Model, and Agile Engineering.\n\nStudents of Lean LaunchPad propose and immediately test business hypotheses. They get out of the building to talk with prospective customers and partners, using this customer feedback acquired in these interviews to refine their product or service; ensure their product or service meets a customer need or solves a customer problem; and validate that they have created a repeatable, scalable business model.\n\nLean LaunchPad pedagogy combines three elements: a Flipped Classroom, Experiential learning and Team-based learning. During the course, students interview potential customers in order to validate or invalidate their hypotheses, as expressed in the Business Model Canvas. Students listen to recorded lectures and presentations before each class, and use class time to present what they learned from customer interviews the previous week. Students present their findings which creates the basis for discussion, critiques, and brain-storming by both professors and students.\nAs of 2016, the Lean LaunchPad is taught in more than 200 universities worldwide and more than 300,000 people have signed up for a free online version of the class.\n\nThe course is core to the U.S. National Science Foundation Innovation Corps program, which since 2011 has been the standard for commercializing science in the U.S.\nTwo other versions of the class – Hacking for Defense and Hacking for Diplomacy –address national defense and foreign policy challenges. Piloted at Stanford in 2016, these classes connect the Silicon Valley innovation mindset with islands of innovation inside the U.S. Department of Defense, intelligence community and U.S. State Department.\nHacking for Defense immediately began to scale after its pilot in spring 2016. In 2017, it will be taught in more than 15 other universities across the country.\n"}
{"id": "42196571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42196571", "title": "Liceo linguistico", "text": "Liceo linguistico\n\nLiceo linguistico (; literally \"linguistic lyceum\") is a type of secondary school in Italy. It is designed to give students the skills to progress to any university or higher educational institution. Students can attend the \"liceo linguistico\" after successfully completing middle school (\"scuola media\").\n\nThe curriculum is devised by the Ministry of Education, and emphasises the link between the multiculturalism and language learning. It covers a complete and widespread range of disciplines.\n\nStudents typically study for five years, and attend the school from the age of 14 to 19. At the end of the fifth year all students sit for the \"esame di Stato\", a final examination which gives access to every university course.\n\nA student attending a \"liceo\" is called \"liceale\", although the more generic terms \"studente\" (male) and \"studentessa\" (female) are also in common use. Teachers are known as \"professore\" (male) or \"professoressa\" (female).\n\nDuring five years,students will be able to speak three foreign languages (including English), to have a rich humanistic and scientific culture.\nAt the end of the fifth year the Language proficiency of students is minimum B2.\n\nThis is the schedule of liceo linguistico in 5 years:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIf students study French language and literature, they can (at the end of Liceo) do a French history/literature exam. At the end of that the student will receive the Esame di Stato (the final exam in Italy) and the Baccalauréat (the final exam in France).\nThe linguistic level or language proficiency of students that attain that exam is minimum B2.\n\nAfter Liceo Linguistico, a student can choose and enter in every university faculty (from foreign languages to philosophy, from mathematics to physics, from medicine to chemistry, and so on).\n\n"}
{"id": "43635062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43635062", "title": "Linux Foundation Linux Certification", "text": "Linux Foundation Linux Certification\n\nThe Linux Foundation Linux Certification (LFLC) is a certification program for system administrators and engineers working with the Linux operating system, announced by the Linux Foundation in August 2014.\n\nLinux Foundation Certifications are valid for 2 years. Candidates have the option to retake and pass the same exam to keep their Certification valid. The Certification will become valid for 2 years starting on the date the exam is retaken and passed.\n\nCandidates may also keep Certification valid by completing one of the renewal requirement options below. Renewal requirements must be completed prior to the expiration of the Certification. If the renewal requirements are satisfied, the expiration of the Certification will be extended for 2 years. The date on which the extension takes effect becomes the Renewal Date for the Certification. Any renewal requirements completed before the Renewal Date of a Certification will not carry over to the new period.\n\nThe Linux Foundation Certified System Administrator (LFCS) certification provides assurance that the recipient is knowledgeable in the use of Linux, especially in relation to the use of the terminal.\n\nThe Linux Foundation Certified Engineer (LFCE) certification provides assurance that the recipient is knowledgeable in the management and design of Linux systems.\n\n"}
{"id": "20826426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20826426", "title": "List of language acquisition researchers", "text": "List of language acquisition researchers\n\nBelow are some notable researchers in language acquisition listed by intellectual orientation and research topic.\n\nNativists\nEmpiricists\nGenerative Language Acquisition\n\nSecond language acquisition researchers\nDynamic approach\n"}
{"id": "31776483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31776483", "title": "List of universities in the Comoros", "text": "List of universities in the Comoros\n\nThis is a list of universities in the Comoros.\n\n"}
{"id": "398672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=398672", "title": "List of youth organizations", "text": "List of youth organizations\n\nThe following is a list of youth organizations. A youth organization is a type of organization with a focus upon providing activities and socialization for minors. In this list, most organizations are international unless noted otherwise.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21511851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21511851", "title": "March of Progress", "text": "March of Progress\n\nThe March of Progress, properly called The Road to Homo Sapiens, is an illustration that presents 25 million years of human evolution. It was created for the \"Early Man\" volume of the \"Life Nature Library\", published in 1965.\n\nIt has been viewed as a picture of the discredited view (orthogenesis) that evolution is progressive. As such, it has been widely parodied and imitated to create images of progress of other kinds.\n\nThe picture of progress in evolution was anticipated by Thomas Henry Huxley's 1863 \"Evidence as to Man's Place in Nature\".\n\nThe illustration is part of a section of text and images commissioned by Time-Life Books for the \"Early Man\" volume (1965) of the \"Life Nature Library\", by F. Clark Howell.\n\nThe illustration is a foldout entitled \"The Road to Homo Sapiens\". It shows a sequence of figures, drawn by natural history painter and muralist Rudolph Zallinger (1919–1995). The 15 human evolutionary forebears are lined up as if they were marching in a parade from left to right. The first two sentences of the caption read \"What were the stages of man's long march from apelike ancestors to \"sapiens\"? Beginning at right and progressing across four more pages are milestones of primate and human evolution as scientists know them today, pieced together from the fragmentary fossil evidence.\"\n\nThe 15 primate figures in Zallinger's image, from left to right, are listed below. The datings follow the original graphic and may no longer reflect current scientific opinion.\n\n\nContrary to appearances and some complaints, the original 1965 text of \"The Road to Homo Sapiens\" reveals an understanding of the fact that a linear presentation of a sequence of primate species, all in the direct line of human ancestors, would not be a correct interpretation. For example, the fourth of Zallinger's figures (\"Oreopithecus\") is said to be \"a likely side branch on man's family tree\". Only the next figure (\"Ramapithecus\") is described as \"now thought by some experts to be the oldest of man's ancestors in a direct line\" (something no longer considered likely). That implies that the first four primates are not to be considered actual human ancestors. Likewise, the seventh figure (\"Paranthropus\") is said to be \"an evolutionary dead end\". In addition, the colored stripes, across the top of the figure, which indicate the age and duration of the various lineages clearly imply that there is no evidence of direct continuity between extinct and extant lineages and also, multiple lineages of the figured hominids occurred contemporaneously at several points in the history of the group.\n\nThe image has frequently been copied, modified, and parodied. It has been criticized as \"unintentionally and wrongly\" implying that \"evolution is progressive\".\n\nWith regard to the way the illustration has been interpreted, the anthropologist and author of the section, F. Clark Howell, remarked:\nStephen Jay Gould (1941–2002) condemned the iconology of the image in several pages of his 1989 book, \"Wonderful Life\", reproducing several advertisements and political cartoons that make use of the illustration to make their various points. In a chapter, \"The Iconography of an Expectation\", he asserted that\n\nThe intelligent design advocate Jonathan Wells wrote in \"\" (2002), \"Although it is widely used to show that we are just animals, and that our very existence is a mere accident, the ultimate icon goes far beyond the evidence.\" The book likens a selection of evolution theory textbook topics to the cover illustration thus qualified.\n\nBrian Switek, writing for \"Scientific American\", argues that the idea of a \"march of progress\", as depicted in the 1965 Time-Life illustration, dates back to the medieval great chain of being and the 19th century idea of the \"missing link\" in the fossil record. In his view, to understand life and evolution, \"step one involves casting out types of imagery which constrain rather than enlighten.\" Writing in \"Wired\", Switek added that \"There is perhaps no other illustration that is as immediately recognizable as representing evolution, but the tragedy of this is that it conveys a view of life that does not resemble our present understanding of life's history.\"\n\n\nThomas Henry Huxley's frontispiece to his 1863 book \"Evidence as to Man's Place in Nature\" was intended simply to compare the skeletons of apes and humans, but its unintentional left-to-right progressionist sequence has according to the historian Jennifer Tucker \"become an iconic and instantly recognizable visual shorthand for evolution\".\n\nAn illustration, with the caption \"Evolution\", showing two sequences of four images, each illustrating a gradual transformation of an animal into a human, appeared in the 1889 edition of Mark Twain's \"A Connecticut Yankee In King Arthur's Court\".\n\n"}
{"id": "22335382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22335382", "title": "Master of Science in Information Systems", "text": "Master of Science in Information Systems\n\nThe Master of Science in Information Systems (MSIS), the Master of Science in Management Information Systems (MSMIS), and Masters in Management Information Systems are specialized master's degree programs usually offered in a university's College of Business and in integrated Information Science & Technology colleges in recent years. The MSIS degree is designed for those managing design and development information technology, especially the information systems development process. The MSIS degree is often thought to be functionally equivalent to a Master of Information Systems/Technology Management, however the two are distinguishable in that the latter has much more equitable composition of information science/systems, and business/management. Nonetheless, for the purposes of this broad overview, MSIS is included with MSMIS and MMIS which are specialized master's degree programs recognized by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB).\n\nA joint committee of Association for Information Systems (AIS) and Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) members developed a model curriculum for the Master of Science in Information Systems (MSIS). The most recent version of the MSIS Model Curriculum was published in 2006.\n\nThe course of study is concentrated around the Information Systems discipline. The core courses are (typically) Systems analysis, Systems design, Data Communications, Database design, and Project management.\n\nIn regard to the job outlook for workers in this field, the Bureau of Labor Statistics has said, \"Employment of computer and information systems managers is expected to grow 17 percent over the 2008-18 decade, which is faster than the average for all occupations. New applications of technology in the workplace will continue to drive demand for workers, fueling the need for more managers. To remain competitive, firms will continue to install sophisticated computer networks and set up more complex intranets and websites. They will need to adopt the most efficient software and systems and troubleshoot problems when they occur. Computer and information systems managers will be needed to oversee these functions.\"\n\nU.S. News & World Report also recognizes the robust job opportunities in this field in their article \"50 Best Careers for 2010\", they state, \"There seems to be no end to organizations' appetite for advanced or improved data communications technology. And E-commerce continues to increase the need for systems analysts.\"\n"}
{"id": "56309936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56309936", "title": "Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology (Zimbabwe)", "text": "Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology (Zimbabwe)\n\nThe ministry for Higher Education, Science and Technology is a department in the Zimbabwean government who is responsible for the management of higher education and scientific and technological development within the country. The position was created by President Emmerson Mnangagwa following his cabinet formation in December 2017 when he split Primary and Secondary Education and Sport, Arts and Recreation into two separate government agencies. The incumbent minister is Amon Murwira who was appointed on 31 November 2017.\n"}
{"id": "21427418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21427418", "title": "Mira Rostova", "text": "Mira Rostova\n\nMira Rostova (née Rosovskaya; April 10, 1909 – January 28, 2009) was an American actress turned acting teacher, best known for her own variation of method acting that she used in coaching of Montgomery Clift. Her other acting students included Armand Assante, Alec Baldwin, Peter Gallagher, Jessica Lange, Zohra Lampert, Jerry Orbach and Madonna (who attended approximately half a dozen class sessions, working on scenes from Tennessee Williams' \"Summer and Smoke\" and Isherwood's \"I Am a Camera\"). \n\nMira Rosovskaya was born on April 10, 1909 in Saint Petersburg, Russia. She fled to Switzerland after the Russian Revolution and then Hamburg, Germany, where she began acting. She also acted in Vienna. She moved to France after the rise of the Nazi party, and made it to the United States by way of England. In the U.S., she abbreviated her surname to Rostova.\n\nRostova had been taken in on a scholarship by Robert Lewis. She was cast as a fake witch doctor in \"Mexican Mural\", an experimental play directed by Lewis, when she first met Clift, who also appeared in the play. Gradually, Rostova would play an increasing role in his acting career, discussing for hours the roles he should accept and the way he should act in these roles. Patricia Bosworth, Clift's biographer, described how Rostova had been hired on the payroll as Clift's coach while he was starring in films including \"A Place in the Sun\" and \"The Heiress\". \n\nRostova was a fixture in his dressing room by 1945, when Clift had a lead role in \"You Touched Me!\", a play by Tennessee Williams and Donald Windham. Clift became frustrated living at home with his mother and Rostova moved him into her apartment, while she moved out and found another place to live. During the filming of Alfred Hitchcock's 1953 film \"I Confess\", Rostova stood behind a pillar and Clift would look over for her approval. During the filming of the 1949 drama \"The Heiress\", co-star Olivia de Havilland said that Clift would look in the opposite direction. \n\nWhile other notable acting teachers such as Uta Hagen and Lee Strasberg would also act themselves, Rostova made few appearances of her own on stage or film, though she did perform the role of Nina in her own translation of Anton Chekhov's \"The Seagull\", which she staged Off Broadway with Clift in 1954. Reviewer Brooks Atkinson in \"The New York Times\" called it an \"interesting performance\" of \"an incomparably beautiful play\", saying that \"Rostova as Nina is handicapped by a heavy accent. She is further handicapped by a florid style alien to the whole spirit of Chekhov\", though he called Clift's performance as Constantin \"beautifully expressed without any foolish pathology\".\n\nElia Kazan kicked her off the set of the 1960 film \"Wild River\" after a single day of filming. In Richard Schickel's 2005 biography of Kazan, he describes how she positioned herself behind the director during filming and would nod or shake her head as Clift was acting, but Kazan was unwilling to have her as a co-director.\n\nRostova died at age 99 on January 28, 2009 in a Manhattan nursing home, three months shy of her 100th birthday. There were no known survivors.\n"}
{"id": "19451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19451", "title": "Mortimer J. Adler", "text": "Mortimer J. Adler\n\nMortimer Jerome Adler (December 28, 1902 – June 28, 2001) was an American philosopher, educator, and popular author. As a philosopher he worked within the Aristotelian and Thomistic traditions. He lived for long stretches in New York City, Chicago, San Francisco, and San Mateo, California. He worked for Columbia University, the University of Chicago, \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", and Adler's own Institute for Philosophical Research.\n\nAdler was born in New York City on December 28, 1902, to Jewish immigrants from Germany. He dropped out of school at age 14 to become a copy boy for the \"New York Sun\", with the ultimate aspiration to become a journalist. Adler soon returned to school to take writing classes at night where he discovered the works of men he would come to call heroes: Plato, Aristotle, Thomas Aquinas, John Locke, John Stuart Mill and others. He went on to study at Columbia University and contributed to the student literary magazine, \"The Morningside\" (a poem \"Choice\" in 1922 when Charles A. Wagner was editor-in-chief and Whittaker Chambers an associate editor). Though he refused to take the required swimming test for a bachelor's degree (a matter that was rectified when Columbia gave him an honorary degree in 1983), he stayed at the university and eventually received an instructorship and finally a doctorate in psychology. While at Columbia University, Adler wrote his first book: \"Dialectic\", published in 1927.\n\nIn 1930 Robert Hutchins, the newly appointed president of the University of Chicago, whom Adler had befriended some years earlier, arranged for Chicago's law school to hire him as a professor of the philosophy of law; the philosophers at Chicago (who included James H. Tufts, E.A. Burtt, and George H. Mead) had \"entertained grave doubts as to Dr. Adler's competence in the field [of philosophy]\" and resisted Adler's appointment to the University's Department of Philosophy. Adler was the first \"non-lawyer\" to join the law school faculty. Adler also taught philosophy to business executives at the Aspen Institute.\n\nAdler and Hutchins went on to found the Great Books of the Western World program and the Great Books Foundation. He founded and served as director of the Institute for Philosophical Research in 1952. He also served on the Board of Editors of Encyclopædia Britannica, and succeeded Hutchins as its chairman from 1974. As the director of editorial planning for the fifteenth edition of \"Britannica\" from 1965, he was instrumental in the major reorganization of knowledge embodied in that edition. He introduced the Paideia Proposal which resulted in his founding the Paideia Program, a grade-school curriculum centered around guided reading and discussion of difficult works (as judged for each grade). With Max Weismann, he founded the Center for the Study of The Great Ideas in 1990 in Chicago.\n\nAdler long strove to bring philosophy to the masses, and some of his works (such as \"How to Read a Book\") became popular bestsellers. He was also an advocate of economic democracy and wrote an influential preface to Louis O. Kelso's \"The Capitalist Manifesto\". Adler was often aided in his thinking and writing by Arthur Rubin, an old friend from his Columbia undergraduate days. In his own words:\nDwight MacDonald once criticized Adler's popular style by saying \"Mr. Adler once wrote a book called \"How to Read a Book\". He should now read a book called \"How to Write a Book\".\"\n\nThe ethnic composition of Adler's Great Books list was controversial in some academic circles, as was his response to accompanying criticism. Some fellow academics characterized the list as ethnically exclusive with Henry Louis Gates saying later that the assembly of the list showed a \"profound disrespect for the intellectual capacities of people of color – red, brown or yellow\". Others, such as E. D. Hirsch, Jr., claim the Great Books of the Western World project was inherently unnecessary, saying that an understanding of shared cultural items within books is more important than reading them. Adler was asked in a 1990 interview with the \"Los Angeles Times\" why his Great Books of the Western World list did not include more non-whites and non-Europeans. He attributed the lack of Latino authors to the lack of recommendations by Mexican poet and committee member Octavio Paz, and the lack of black authors to a lack of books good enough to fit the criteria. In the face of criticism Adler maintained that ethnic quotas were irrelevant to the subject.\n\nAdler was born into a nonobservant Jewish family. In his early twenties, he discovered St. Thomas Aquinas, and in particular the \"Summa Theologica\". Many years later, he wrote that its \"intellectual austerity, integrity, precision and brilliance... put the study of theology highest among all of my philosophical interests\". An enthusiastic Thomist, he was a frequent contributor to Catholic philosophical and educational journals, as well as a frequent speaker at Catholic institutions, so much so that some assumed he was a convert to Catholicism. But that was reserved for later.\n\nIn 1940, James T. Farrell called Adler \"the leading American fellow-traveller of the Roman Catholic Church\". What was true for Adler, Farrell said, was what was \"postulated in the dogma of the Roman Catholic Church\", and he \"sang the same tune\" as avowed Catholic philosophers like Étienne Gilson, Jacques Maritain and Martin D'Arcy. Farrell attributed Adler's delay in joining the Church to his being among those Christians who \"wanted their cake and... wanted to eat it too\", and compared him to the Emperor Constantine, who waited until he was on his deathbed to formally become a Catholic.\n\nAdler took a long time to make up his mind about theological issues. When he wrote \"How to Think About God: A Guide for the Twentieth-Century Pagan\" in 1980, he claimed to consider himself the pagan of the book's subtitle. In volume 51 of the \"Mars Hill Audio Journal\" (2001), Ken Myers includes his 1980 interview with Adler, conducted after \"How to Think About God\" was published. Myers reminisces, \"During that interview, I asked him why he had never embraced the Christian faith himself. He explained that while he had been profoundly influenced by a number of Christian thinkers during his life... there were moral – not intellectual – obstacles to his conversion. He didn't explain any further.\"\n\nMyers notes that Adler finally \"surrendered to the Hound of Heaven\" and \"made a confession of faith and was baptized\" as an Episcopalian in 1984, only a few years after that interview. Offering insight into Adler's conversion, Myers quotes him from a subsequent 1990 article in \"Christianity\" magazine: \"My chief reason for choosing Christianity was because the mysteries were incomprehensible. What's the point of revelation if we could figure it out ourselves? If it were wholly comprehensible, then it would just be another philosophy.\"\n\nAccording to his friend Deal Hudson, Adler \"had been attracted to Catholicism for many years\" and \"wanted to be a Roman Catholic, but issues like abortion and the resistance of his family and friends\" kept him away. Many thought he was baptized as an Episcopalian rather than a Catholic solely because of his \"wonderful – and ardently Episcopal – wife\" Caroline. Hudson suggests it is no coincidence that it was only after her death in 1998 that he took the final step. In December 1999, in San Mateo, where he had moved to spend his last years, Adler was formally received into the Catholic Church by a long-time friend and admirer, Bishop Pierre DuMaine. \"Finally,\" wrote another friend, Ralph McInerny, \"he became the Roman Catholic he had been training to be all his life\".\n\nDespite not being a Catholic for most of his life, Adler can be considered a Catholic philosopher on account of his lifelong participation in the Neo-Thomist movement and his almost equally long membership of the American Catholic Philosophical Association.\n\nAdler referred to Aristotle's Nicomachean Ethics as the \"ethics of common sense\" and also as \"the only moral philosophy that is sound, practical, and undogmatic\". Thus, it is the only ethical doctrine that answers all the questions that moral philosophy should and can attempt to answer, neither more nor less, and that has answers that are true by the standard of truth that is appropriate and applicable to normative judgments. In contrast, he believed that other theories or doctrines try to answer more questions than they can or fewer than they should, and their answers are mixtures of truth and error, particularly the moral philosophy of Immanuel Kant.\n\nAdler was a self-proclaimed \"moderate dualist\", and viewed the positions of psychophysical dualism and materialistic monism to be opposite sides of two extremes. Regarding dualism, he dismissed the extreme form of dualism that stemmed from such philosophers as Plato (body and soul) and Descartes (mind and matter), as well as the theory of extreme monism and the mind–brain identity theory. After eliminating the extremes, Adler subscribed to a more moderate form of dualism. He believed that the brain is only a necessary, but not a sufficient, condition for conceptual thought; that an \"immaterial intellect\" is also requisite as a condition; and that the difference between human and animal behavior is a radical difference in kind. Adler defended this position against many challenges to dualistic theories.\n\nThe meanings of \"freedom\" and \"free will\" have been and are under debate, and the debate is confused because there is no generally accepted definition of either \"freedom\" or \"free will\". Adler's \"Institute for Philosophical Research\" spent ten years studying the \"idea of freedom\" as the word was used by hundreds of authors who have discussed and disputed freedom. The study was published in 1958 as Volume One of \"The Idea of Freedom\", sub-titled \"A Dialectical Examination of the Idea of Freedom\" with subsequent comments in \"Adler's Philosophical Dictionary\". Adler's study concluded that a delineation of three kinds of freedom – circumstantial, natural, and acquired – is necessary for clarity on the subject.\n\nAs Adler's interest in religion and theology increased, he made references to the Bible and the need to test its articles of faith for compatibility with certainties from fields of natural knowledge such as science and philosophy. In his 1981 book \"How to Think About God\", Adler attempts to demonstrate God as the exnihilator (the creator of something from nothing). Adler stressed that even with this conclusion, God's existence cannot be proven or demonstrated, but only established as true beyond a reasonable doubt. However, in a recent re-review of the argument, John Cramer concluded that recent developments in cosmology appear to converge with and support Adler's argument, and that in light of such theories as the multiverse, the argument is no worse for wear and may, indeed, now be judged somewhat more probable than it was originally.\n\nAdler believed that, if theology and religion are living things, there is nothing intrinsically wrong about efforts to modernize them. They must be open to change and growth like everything else. Further, there is no reason to be surprised when discussions such as those about the \"death of God\" – a concept drawn from Friedrich Nietzsche – stir popular excitement as they did in the recent past and could do so again today. According to Adler, of all the great ideas, the idea of God has always been and continues to be the one that evokes the greatest concern among the widest group of men and women. However, he was opposed to the idea of converting atheism into a new form of religion or theology.\n\nMortimer Adler was married twice and had four children. He and Helen Boynton were married in 1927 and later divorced in 1960 with whom he had two children, Mark and Michael. Second wife was Carolyn Pring, and he had two more children with her.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39253415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39253415", "title": "Mowag 4x4 armored reconnaissance vehicle (armored dummy)", "text": "Mowag 4x4 armored reconnaissance vehicle (armored dummy)\n\nThe Mowag 4x4 armored dummy is a target practice vehicle used by the armed forces of Switzerland.\n\nOriginally designed as an armored reconnaissance vehicle, the armored tank dummy is based on a Mowag T1 4x4 chassis. Used as a moving target for the armor \"Wurfgranate\" (exercise) as well as for practice shells of rocket tube (20mm insert operation) and the SIG SG 510 assault rifle and practice with hand grenades. 240 units were built and used by the Swiss army from 1954 to 1987.\n\n. The vehicle with the number M+83124 is now in the \"Schweizerisches Militärmuseum Full\".\n\n"}
{"id": "295967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=295967", "title": "Norwegian Institute of Technology", "text": "Norwegian Institute of Technology\n\nThe Norwegian Institute of Technology (Norwegian: \"Norges tekniske høgskole\", NTH) was a science institute in Trondheim, Norway. It was established in 1910, and existed as an independent technical university for 58 years, after which it was merged into the University of Trondheim as an independent college. \n\nIn 1996 NTH ceased to exist as an organizational superstructure when the university was restructured and rebranded. The former NTH departments are now basic building blocks of the Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU).\n\nNTH was primarily a polytechnic institute, educating master level engineers as well as architects. In 1992 NTH had 7627 master and doctoral students and 1591 employees; it graduated 1262 chartered engineers (master level), 52 chartered architects, and 92 Dr.Ing. (Ph.D.). The operating budget was equivalent to US$100M, and the total premises amounted to around 260,000 m (64 acres).\n\nSince the merger, it forms a part of the university campus commonly known as Gløshaugen, from the geographical area in which it is situated.\n\nThe decision to establish a Norwegian national college of technology was made by the Norwegian parliament, the Storting, in 1900, after years of heated debate on where the institution should be located; many representatives felt that the capital Kristiania (now Oslo) was self-evident as the place for this nationally important seat of learning. However, eventually \"Den Tekniske Høgskole\" was located in the geographically central city of Trondheim, based on an emerging policy of decentralisation as well as the city's existing and highly esteemed technical college, \"Trondhjems Tekniske Læreanstalt\".\nHovedbygningen, the building of Norges tekniske høgskole was designed by architect Bredo Greve. It was built of granite block construction in the National Romantic style of architecture.\n\nFive academical departments were originally present in the parliament's resolution of 31 May 1900:\nThis section is in its early stages; more will be written as time permits. This will at least entail: 1) early years, pre-WWII history, incl Samfundet; 2) NTH during WWII; 3) possibly some info on each decade until '96, incl SINTEF, RUNIT, PVV, etc.; and 4) end of independent NTH\n\nThe academic structure of NTH during the last years before its inclusion in NTNU was as follows:\n\n\nThe following companies, or divisions of international companies, have been created directly or partly from NTH research and influence, including its contract research arm SINTEF with spin-offs:\n\n"}
{"id": "6513601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6513601", "title": "Patricia Alexander", "text": "Patricia Alexander\n\nPatricia A. Alexander is an educational psychologist who has conducted notable research on the role of individual difference, strategic processing, and interest in students' learning. She is currently the Jean Mullan Professor of Literacy and Distinguished Scholar/Teacher in the Department of Human Development and Quantitative Methodology in the Faculty of Education at the University of Maryland and a visiting professor at the University of Auckland, New Zealand.\n\nAlexander has been a featured speaker at major research conferences, including the annual meetings of the National Reading Conference, the American Psychological Association, and the American Educational Research Association. She has authored an educational psychology textbook, and has served as editor of prominent research journals and books in educational psychology.\n\nAt the University of Maryland, Alexander supervises the Disciplined Reading and Learning Research Lab (DRLRL), dedicated to the study of psychology in teaching and learning. The research of the DRLRL includes the study of academic development, reading and multiple source use, domain learning, relational reasoning, and the role of individual differences in academic performance. The lab is an evolving learning environment that allows students to exchange ideas and conduct original empirical research. Alexander has received national and university-level honors for her mentoring, teaching and research.\n\nPatricia Alexander, born Patricia Ann Mullan, grew up in an Italian American family in Virginia. A former middle-school teacher as well as jazz singer, Alexander received a reading specialist degree from James Madison University in 1979. In 1981 she received a Ph.D. in reading from the University of Maryland under the mentorship of Ruth Garner. After completing her Ph.D., she joined the faculty at Texas A&M University before returning to the University of Maryland as a professor in 1995. She has supervised more than 50 Doctoral and Master's students, many of whom hold faculty and leadership positions in the United States and Asia. She has a son, John, daughter-in-law, P. Karen Murphy, and two grandchildren. She currently resides in the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area in Silver Spring, Maryland.\n\nRecently named one of the most influential and productive educational psychologists of the past decade, Alexander has served as President of Division 15 (Educational Psychology) of the American Psychological Association, Vice-President of Division C (Learning and Instruction) of the American Educational Research Association, and President of the Southwest Educational Research Association. Since receiving her Ph.D., Alexander has published over 280 articles, books, or chapters in the area of learning and instruction. She is renowned for her insightful and engaging presentations; she has presented over 400 invited addresses or papers at national and international conferences. Alexander currently serves as the senior editor of Contemporary Educational Psychology and is a former editor of Instructional Science and the American Educational Research Journal. She presently serves on over 10 editorial boards including Learning and Instruction, Educational Psychologist, and the Journal of Educational Psychology. She has received numerous awards, including the Thorndike and Scribner Awards (See Awards and Achievements). In addition to these scholarly contributions to the field, Dr. Alexander serves as an international educational consultant in Europe, New Zealand, and Israel.\n\nPerhaps Alexander's most notable contribution to the educational psychology literature is her Model of Domain Learning. In contrast to traditional models of expertise, the MDL provides an alternative lens on development in academic domains. The MDL is a three-stage model, with each phase characterized by particular configurations of knowledge, interest, and strategic processing.\n\nThe first stage, acclimation, exemplifies learners with limited domain and topic knowledge, where domain knowledge refers to the breadth of knowledge within a field and topic knowledge to the depth of knowledge about particular topics within that field. Alexander's work has demonstrated that the lack knowledge and experience with the domain during this phase co occurs with limited individual interest—or, preexisting interest—in the domain; rather, situational interest, or, interest sparked by the environment, may be particularly influential. As a result of this dearth of knowledge and interest, acclimating learners lack the strategic processing skills needed to master the content. Alexander characterizes the second stage, competence, as including an increase in both domain and topic knowledge. Because of this broader and deeper body of knowledge, learners are able to apply a mixture of surface-level and deep processing strategies. Such shifts in knowledge and strategic processing are further associated with increases in individual interest, as learners no longer need to rely on situational features of the environment to draw their attention. The third stage, proficiency, is marked by an even broader and deeper knowledge base, as well as high individual interest. More importantly, these learners use their deep processing strategies to push the field forward with probing questions and novel ideas. Alexander (1997b) maintains that few ever reach this stage.\n\nThe MDL draws its strength from several facets that place the model in contrast with traditional models of expertise. First, whereas other models examine expertise as it manifests in particular activities (e.g., dance, medical diagnosis), the MDL centers on development in academic domains. This focus helps guide practitioners' approaches to teaching and allows them to better understand their students. In addition, this model takes into account affective factors (i.e., interest, motivation) that are often ignored in traditional models of expertise. Alexander's early writing on the integration of knowledge and strategic process resulted in a highly cited article published in 1988 with Judith Judy in Review of Educational Research.\n\nAlexander is a leader in students' reading and literacy development throughout the lifespan and in connection to prior knowledge and domain learning. She has characterized reading as multidimensional, developmental, goal directed, and intentional. Alexander and colleagues have introduced a conceptual framework for prior knowledge including conceptual knowledge, metacognitive knowledge, and knowledge construction interacting with one another, within a broader context of sociocultural knowledge and tacit knowledge. See Figure 2 .\n\nBeyond prior knowledge, Alexander has considered the cognitive processes, including strategy selection and use and metacognition, and motivational experiences, specifically interest and goal-directedness, involved in reading. More recently, in a 2010 report commissioned by the National Academic of Sciences, Alexander defined competent reading in the 21st century. Alexander critiqued findings from the 1997 National Reading Panel that focused on reading acquisition, including phonemic awareness and vocabulary development. Alexander has criticized the overemphasis on learning to read, found in much of the reading literature targeting younger grades, and has advocated for greater attention paid to reading to learn, regarded as for mature reading. She serves as a reading consultant for the National Assessment of Educational Progress.\nMore recently, Alexander's work has turned to examining reading in information-saturated, digital contexts. To understand students' text processing in these environments, Alexander has drawn the distinction between information management and knowledge building. While information management is characterized by surface-level processing, focusing on reducing information volume to identify an answer, knowledge building involves deeper processing and in an effort to identify patterns and build understanding. She has called for teachers to develop tasks and learning environments that support students' engagement in knowledge building rather than information management.\n\nIn her approach to studying the beliefs of students and teachers, Alexander sought to broaden the perspective of epistemic beliefs typically examined within educational research. Research on epistemic beliefs, stemming from work by William G. Perry on Harvard undergraduates in the 1970s have focused on beliefs about the nature of knowledge. Initially, Alexander's research into the study of beliefs focused on the degree to which students and teachers identified with the Platonic view of knowledge as justified true beliefs. In doing so, she examined the degree to which students and experts regarded “knowledge” and “belief” to be overlapping concepts. Responding to the challenging task of self-reporting one's own beliefs, this work by Alexander and colleagues developed innovative measurement techniques that included graphical depictions of the constructs.\n\nAlexander, through her years of teaching experience, noticed that students, particularly those in the [digital age] were more concerned with managing information needed for tests than building knowledge. Building on these observations Alexander and her colleagues studied students beliefs about knowledge, information, and truth in students from elementary to college. Her work on beliefs addresses changes in beliefs across academic development, and has spanned the United States, Israel, Singapore, the Netherlands, and Italy.\n\nOne of Alexander's current lines of research delves into relational reasoning strategies, which include metacognitive strategies that help individuals transfer knowledge across texts, tasks, and domains. Relational reasoning strategies are defined as, \"cognitive procedures purposefully applied to recognizing or deriving meaningful relations or patterns between and among pieces of information that would otherwise appear unrelated.\" Even though there are many forms of relational reasoning, Alexander and colleagues have proposed that analogy (similarity), anomaly (discrepancy), antinomy (incompatibility), and antithesis (opposition) are four manifestations of relational reasoning of importance for academic learning and development. Of the four proposed manifestations of relational reasoning, analogy and anomaly have been widely studied, while antinomy and antithesis are not as well-established.\n\nAnalogy involves recognizing relational similarities between two seemingly disparate ideas, objects, or events. Anomaly is defined as any occurrence or object that is unusual or unique, and deviates from an established rule of trend. Antinomy refers to identifying principles or statements that are contradictory, and antithesis occurs when two propositions, principles, or explanations are set in direct contrast or opposition.\n\nIn 2014, Alexander and the Disciplined Reading and Learning Research Laboratory published the Test of Relational Reasoning (TORR), which includes the four identified manifestations of relations described. In an effort to be culturally unbiased, the assessment contains visual representations of relations, which alleviate the demands of language and content knowledge. As of 2014, Alexander and the DRLRL had developed a linguistic counterpart to the TORR, the verbal Test of Relational Reasoning (vTORR), and testing of a version of the original TORR for elementary students, called the TORR Junior is currently underway.\n\nAlexander's honors include the Oscar S. Causey Award for outstanding contributions to literacy research from the National Reading Conference (2001), the E. L. Thorndike Award for Career Achievement in Educational Psychology from APA Division 15 (2006), and the Sylvia Scribner Career Award from AERA Division C (2007). She has also received university-level honors for her teaching, mentorship, and research, including the University of Maryland System Regents Faculty Award for Mentoring. Her work is carried on by more than 50 current and former graduate students who make up her academic family.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3950815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3950815", "title": "Paul E. Olsen", "text": "Paul E. Olsen\n\nPaul E. Olsen (born August 4, 1953) is an American paleontologist and author and co-author of a large number of technical papers. Growing up as a teenager in Livingston, New Jersey, he was instrumental in Riker Hill Fossil Site being named a National Natural Landmark as a teenager by sending President Richard Nixon a dinosaur footprint cast from the site. He received a M. Phil. and a Ph.D. in Biology at Yale University in 1984. His thesis was on the Newark Supergroup.\n\nHis interests and research examine patterns of ecosystem evolution and extinction as a response to climate change over geological time, and Triassic and Jurassic Continental Ecosystems. His research methods include structural geology, paleontology, palynology, geochemistry, and geophysics.\n\nProfessor Olsen is currently Arthur D. Storke Memorial Professor of Earth and Environmental Sciences, Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, Lamont–Doherty Earth Observatory at Columbia University; Research Associate at the Carnegie Museum of Natural History, Pittsburgh, the American Museum of Natural History and the Virginia Natural History Museum; Vice President, Board of Directors, Black Rock Forest Consortium, and on the Honorary Board of Directors, Fundy Geological Museum, Parrsboro, Nova Scotia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "80441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80441", "title": "Paul Klee", "text": "Paul Klee\n\nPaul Klee (; 18 December 1879 – 29 June 1940) was a Swiss German artist. His highly individual style was influenced by movements in art that included Expressionism, Cubism, and Surrealism. Klee was a natural draftsman who experimented with and eventually deeply explored color theory, writing about it extensively; his lectures \"Writings on Form and Design Theory\" (\"Schriften zur Form und Gestaltungslehre\"), published in English as the \"Paul Klee Notebooks\", are held to be as important for modern art as Leonardo da Vinci's \"A Treatise on Painting\" for the Renaissance. He and his colleague, Russian painter Wassily Kandinsky, both taught at the Bauhaus school of art, design and architecture. His works reflect his dry humor and his sometimes childlike perspective, his personal moods and beliefs, and his musicality.\n\nPaul Klee was born in Münchenbuchsee, Switzerland, as the second child of German music teacher Hans Wilhelm Klee (1849–1940) and Swiss singer Ida Marie Klee, née Frick (1855–1921). His sister Mathilde (died 6 December 1953) was born on 28 January 1876 in Walzenhausen. Their father came from Tann and studied singing, piano, organ and violin at the Stuttgart Conservatory, meeting there his future wife Ida Frick. Hans Wilhelm Klee was active as a music teacher at the Bern State Seminary in Hofwil near Bern until 1931. Klee was able to develop his music skills as his parents encouraged and inspired him throughout his life.\n\nIn 1880, his family moved to Bern, where they eventually, in 1897, after a number of changes of residence, moved into their own house in the . From 1886 to 1890, Klee visited primary school and received, at the age of 7, violin classes at the Municipal Music School. He was so talented on violin that, aged 11, he received an invitation to play as an extraordinary member of the Bern Music Association.\nIn his early years, following his parents’ wishes, Klee focused on becoming a musician; but he decided on the visual arts during his teen years, partly out of rebellion and partly because of a belief that modern music lacked meaning for him. He stated, \"I didn't find the idea of going in for music creatively particularly attractive in view of the decline in the history of musical achievement.\" As a musician, he played and felt emotionally bound to traditional works of the eighteenth and nineteenth century, but as an artist he craved the freedom to explore radical ideas and styles. At sixteen, Klee’s landscape drawings already show considerable skill.\n\nAround 1897, Klee started his diary, which he kept until 1918, and which has provided scholars with valuable insight into his life and thinking. During his school years, he avidly drew in his school books, in particular drawing caricatures, and already demonstrating skill with line and volume. He barely passed his final exams at the \"Gymnasium\" of Bern, where he qualified in the Humanities. With his characteristic dry wit, he wrote, \"After all, it’s rather difficult to achieve the \"exact\" minimum, and it involves risks.\" On his own time, in addition to his deep interests in music and art, Klee was a great reader of literature, and later a writer on art theory and aesthetics.\n\nWith his parents' reluctant permission, in 1898 Klee began studying art at the Academy of Fine Arts in Munich with Heinrich Knirr and Franz von Stuck. He excelled at drawing but seemed to lack any natural color sense. He later recalled, \"During the third winter I even realized that I probably would never learn to paint.\" During these times of youthful adventure, Klee spent much time in pubs and had affairs with lower class women and artists' models. He had an illegitimate son in 1900 who died several weeks after birth.\n\nAfter receiving his Fine Arts degree, Klee went to Italy from October 1901 to May 1902 with friend Hermann Haller. They stayed in Rome, Florence, and Naples, and studied the master painters of past centuries. He exclaimed, \"The Forum and the Vatican have spoken to me. Humanism wants to suffocate me.\" He responded to the colors of Italy, but sadly noted, \"that a long struggle lies in store for me in this field of color.\" For Klee, color represented the optimism and nobility in art, and a hope for relief from the pessimistic nature he expressed in his black-and-white grotesques and satires. Returning to Bern, he lived with his parents for several years, and took occasional art classes. By 1905, he was developing some experimental techniques, including drawing with a needle on a blackened pane of glass, resulting in fifty-seven works including his \"Portrait of My Father\" (1906). In the years 1903-5 he also completed a cycle of eleven zinc-plate etchings called \"Inventions\", his first exhibited works, in which he illustrated several grotesque characters. He commented, \"though I'm fairly satisfied with my etchings I can't go on like this. I’m not a specialist.\" Klee was still dividing his time with music, playing the violin in an orchestra and writing concert and theater reviews.\n\nKlee married Bavarian pianist Lily Stumpf in 1906 and they had one son named Felix Paul in the following year. They lived in a suburb of Munich, and while she gave piano lessons and occasional performances, he kept house and tended to his art work. His attempt to be a magazine illustrator failed. Klee's art work progressed slowly for the next five years, partly from having to divide his time with domestic matters, and partly as he tried to find a new approach to his art. In 1910, he had his first solo exhibition in Bern, which then traveled to three Swiss cities.\n\nIn January 1911 Alfred Kubin met Klee in Munich and encouraged him to illustrate Voltaire's \"Candide\". His resultant drawings were published later in a 1920 version of the book edited by Kurt Wolff. Around this time, Klee's graphic work increased. His early inclination towards the absurd and the sarcastic was well received by Kubin, who befriended Klee and became one of his first significant collectors. Klee met, through Kubin, the art critic Wilhelm Hausenstein in 1911. Klee was a foundation member and manager of the Munich artists' union \"Sema\" that summer. In autumn he made an acquaintance with August Macke and Wassily Kandinsky, and in winter he joined the editorial team of the almanac \"Der Blaue Reiter\", founded by Franz Marc and Kandinsky. On meeting Kandinsky, Klee recorded, \"I came to feel a deep trust in him. He is somebody, and has an exceptionally beautiful and lucid mind.\" Other members included Macke, Gabriele Münter and Marianne von Werefkin. Klee became in a few months one of the most important and independent members of the \"Blaue Reiter\", but he was not yet fully integrated.\n\nThe release of the almanac was delayed for the benefit of an exhibition. The first \"Blaue Reiter\" exhibition took place from 18 December 1911 to 1 January 1912 in the Moderne Galerie Heinrich Thannhauser in Munich. Klee did not attend it, but in the second exhibition, which occurred from 12 February to 18 March 1912 in the Galerie Goltz, 17 of his graphic works were shown. The name of this art exhibition was \"Schwarz-Weiß\", as it only regarded graphic painting. Initially planned to be released in 1911, the release date of the \"Der Blau Reiter\" almanac by Kandinsky and Marc was delayed in May 1912, including the reproduced ink drawing \"Steinhauer\" by Klee. At the same time, Kandinsky published his art history writing \"Über das Geistige in der Kunst\".\n\nThe association opened Klee's mind to modern theories of color. His travels to Paris in 1912 also exposed him to the ferment of Cubism and the pioneering examples of \"pure painting\", an early term for abstract art. The use of bold color by Robert Delaunay and Maurice de Vlaminck also inspired him. Rather than copy these artists, Klee began working out his own color experiments in pale watercolors and did some primitive landscapes, including \"In the Quarry\" (1913) and \"Houses near the Gravel Pit\" (1913), using blocks of color with limited overlap. Klee acknowledged that \"a long struggle lies in store for me in this field of color\" in order to reach his \"distant noble aim.\" Soon, he discovered \"the style which connects drawing and the realm of color.\"\n\nKlee's artistic breakthrough came in 1914 when he briefly visited Tunisia with August Macke and Louis Moilliet and was impressed by the quality of the light there. He wrote, \"Color has taken possession of me; no longer do I have to chase after it, I know that it has hold of me forever... Color and I are one. I am a painter.\" With that realization, faithfulness to nature faded in importance. Instead, Klee began to delve into the \"cool romanticism of abstraction\". In gaining a second artistic vocabulary, Klee added color to his abilities in draftsmanship, and in many works combined them successfully, as he did in one series he called \"operatic paintings\". One of the most literal examples of this new synthesis is \"The Bavarian Don Giovanni\" (1919).\n\nAfter returning home, Klee painted his first pure abstract, \"In the Style of Kairouan\" (1914), composed of colored rectangles and a few circles. The colored rectangle became his basic building block, what some scholars associate with a musical note, which Klee combined with other colored blocks to create a color harmony analogous to a musical composition. His selection of a particular color palette emulates a musical key. Sometimes he uses complementary pairs of colors, and other times \"dissonant\" colors, again reflecting his connection with musicality.\n\nA few weeks later, World War I began. At first, Klee was somewhat detached from it, as he wrote ironically, \"I have long had this war in me. That is why, inwardly, it is none of my concern.\" Klee was conscripted as a \"Landsturmsoldat\" (soldier of the reserve forces in Prussia or Imperial Germany) on 5 March 1916. The deaths of his friends August Macke and Franz Marc in battle began to affect him. Venting his distress, he created several pen and ink lithographs on war themes including \"Death for the Idea\" (1915). After finishing the military training course, which began on 11 March 1916, he was committed as a soldier behind the front. Klee moved on 20 August to the aircraft maintenance company in Oberschleissheim, executing skilled manual work, such as restoring aircraft camouflage, and accompanying aircraft transports. On 17 January 1917, he was transferred to the Royal Bavarian flying school in Gersthofen (which 54 years later became the USASA Field Station Augsburg) to work as a clerk for the treasurer until the end of the war. This allowed him to stay in a small room outside of the barrack block and continue painting.\n\nHe continued to paint during the entire war and managed to exhibit in several shows. By 1917, Klee's work was selling well and art critics acclaimed him as the best of the new German artists. His \"Ab ovo\" (1917) is particularly noteworthy for its sophisticated technique. It employs watercolor on gauze and paper with a chalk ground, which produces a rich texture of triangular, circular, and crescent patterns. Demonstrating his range of exploration, mixing color and line, his \"Warning of the Ships\" (1918) is a colored drawing filled with symbolic images on a field of suppressed color.\n\nIn 1919, Klee applied for a teaching post at the Academy of Art in Stuttgart. This attempt failed but he had a major success in securing a three-year contract (with a minimum annual income) with dealer Hans Goltz, whose influential gallery gave Klee major exposure, and some commercial success. A retrospective of over 300 works in 1920 was also notable.\n\nKlee taught at the Bauhaus from January 1921 to April 1931. He was a \"Form\" master in the bookbinding, stained glass, and mural painting workshops and was provided with two studios. In 1922, Kandinsky joined the staff and resumed his friendship with Klee. Later that year the first Bauhaus exhibition and festival was held, for which Klee created several of the advertising materials. Klee welcomed that there were many conflicting theories and opinions within the Bauhaus: \"I also approve of these forces competing one with the other if the result is achievement.\"\n\nKlee was also a member of Die Blaue Vier (The Blue Four), with Kandinsky, Lyonel Feininger, and Alexej von Jawlensky; formed in 1923, they lectured and exhibited together in the USA in 1925. That same year, Klee had his first exhibits in Paris, and he became a hit with the French Surrealists. Klee visited Egypt in 1928, which impressed him less than Tunisia. In 1929, the first major monograph on Klee's work was published, written by Will Grohmann.\n\nKlee also taught at the Düsseldorf Academy from 1931 to 1933, and was singled out by a Nazi newspaper, \"Then that great fellow Klee comes onto the scene, already famed as a Bauhaus teacher in Dessau. He tells everyone he's a thoroughbred Arab, but he's a typical Galician Jew.\" His home was searched by the Gestapo and he was fired from his job. His self-portrait \"Struck from the List\" (1933) commemorates the sad occasion. In 1933-4, Klee had shows in London and Paris, and finally met Pablo Picasso, whom he greatly admired. The Klee family emigrated to Switzerland in late 1933.\n\nKlee was at the peak of his creative output. His \"Ad Parnassum\" (1932) is considered his masterpiece and the best example of his pointillist style; it is also one of his largest, most finely worked paintings. He produced nearly 500 works in 1933 during his last year in Germany. However, in 1933, Klee began experiencing the symptoms of what was diagnosed as scleroderma after his death. The progression of his fatal disease, which made swallowing very difficult, can be followed through the art he created in his last years. His output in 1936 was only 25 pictures. In the later 1930s, his health recovered somewhat and he was encouraged by a visit from Kandinsky and Picasso. Klee's simpler and larger designs enabled him to keep up his output in his final years, and in 1939 he created over 1,200 works, a career high for one year. He used heavier lines and mainly geometric forms with fewer but larger blocks of color. His varied color palettes, some with bright colors and others sober, perhaps reflected his alternating moods of optimism and pessimism. Back in Germany in 1937, seventeen of Klee's pictures were included in an exhibition of \"Degenerate art\" and 102 of his works in public collections were seized by the Nazis.\n\nKlee suffered from a wasting disease, scleroderma, toward the end of his life, enduring pain that seems to be reflected in his last works of art. One of his last paintings, \"Death and Fire\", features a skull in the center with the German word for death, \"Tod\", appearing in the face. He died in Muralto, Locarno, Switzerland, on 29 June 1940 without having obtained Swiss citizenship, despite his birth in that country. His art work was considered too revolutionary, even degenerate, by the Swiss authorities, but eventually they accepted his request six days after his death. His legacy comprises about 9,000 works of art. The words on his tombstone, Klee's credo, placed there by his son Felix, say, \"I cannot be grasped in the here and now, For my dwelling place is as much among the dead, As the yet unborn, Slightly closer to the heart of creation than usual, But still not close enough.\" He was buried at Schosshaldenfriedhof, Bern, Switzerland.\n\nKlee has been variously associated with Expressionism, Cubism, Futurism, Surrealism, and Abstraction, but his pictures are difficult to classify. He generally worked in isolation from his peers, and interpreted new art trends in his own way. He was inventive in his methods and technique. Klee worked in many different media—oil paint, watercolor, ink, pastel, etching, and others. He often combined them into one work. He used canvas, burlap, muslin, linen, gauze, cardboard, metal foils, fabric, wallpaper, and newsprint. Klee employed spray paint, knife application, stamping, glazing, and impasto, and mixed media such as oil with watercolor, watercolor with pen and India ink, and oil with tempera.\n\nHe was a natural draftsman, and through long experimentation developed a mastery of color and tonality. Many of his works combine these skills. He uses a great variety of color palettes from nearly monochromatic to highly polychromatic. His works often have a fragile childlike quality to them and are usually on a small scale. He often used geometric forms and grid format compositions as well as letters and numbers, frequently combined with playful figures of animals and people. Some works were completely abstract. Many of his works and their titles reflect his dry humor and varying moods; some express political convictions. They frequently allude to poetry, music and dreams and sometimes include words or musical notation. The later works are distinguished by spidery hieroglyph-like symbols. Rainer Maria Rilke wrote about Klee in 1921, \"Even if you hadn’t told me he plays the violin, I would have guessed that on many occasions his drawings were transcriptions of music.\"\n\nPamela Kort observed: \"Klee's 1933 drawings present their beholder with an unparalleled opportunity to glimpse a central aspect of his aesthetics that has remained largely unappreciated: his lifelong concern with the possibilities of parody and wit. Herein lies their real significance, particularly for an audience unaware that Klee's art has political dimensions.\"\n\nAmong the few plastic works are hand puppets made between 1916 and 1925, for his son Felix. The artist neither counts them as a component of his oeuvre, nor does he list them in his catalogue raisonné. Thirty of the preserved puppets are stored at the Zentrum Paul Klee, Bern.\n\nSome of Klee's early preserved children's drawings, which his grandmother encouraged, were listed on his catalogue raisonné. A total of 19 etchings were produced during the Bern years; ten of these were made between 1903 and 1905 in the cycle \"Inventionen\" (Inventions), which were presented in June 1906 at the \"Internationale Kunstausstellung des Vereins bildender Künstler Münchens 'Secession'\" (International Art Exhibition of the Association for Graphic Arts, Munich, Secession), his first appearance as a painter in the public. Klee had removed the third Invention, \"Pessimistische Allegorie des Gebirges\" (Pessimistic Allegory of the Mountain), in February 1906 from his cycle. The satirical etchings, for example \"Jungfrau im Baum/Jungfrau (träumend)\" (Virgin on the tree/Virgin (dreaming)) from 1903 and \"Greiser Phoenix\" (Aged Phoenix) from 1905, were classified by Klee as \"surrealistic outposts\". \"Jungfrau im Baum\" ties on the motive \"Le cattive madri\" (1894) by Giovanni Segantini. The picture was influenced by grotesque lyric poetries of Alfred Jarry, Max Jacob and Christian Morgenstern. It features an cultural pessimism, which can be found at the turn of the 20th century in works by Symbolists. The Invention Nr. 6, the 1903 etching \"Zwei Männer, einander in höherer Stellung vermutend\" (Two Men, Supposing to be in Major Position), depicts two naked men, presumably emperor Wilhelm II and Franz Joseph I of Austria, recognizable by their hairstyle and beards. As their clothes and insignia were bereft, \"both of them have no clue if their conventional salute […] is in order or not. As they assume that their counterpart could have been higher rated\", they bow and scrape.\n\nKlee began to introduce a new technique in 1905: scratching on a blackened glass panel with a needle. In that manner he created about 57 Verre églomisé pictures, among those the 1905 \"Gartenszene\" (Scene on a Garden) and the 1906 \"Porträt des Vaters\" (Portrait of a Father), with which he tried to combine painting and scratching. Klee's solitary early work ended in 1911, the year he met and was inspired by the graphic artist Alfred Kubin, and became associated with the artists of the \"Blaue Reiter\".\n\nDuring his twelve-day educational trip to Tunis in April 1914 Klee produced with Macke and Moilliet watercolor paintings, which implement the strong light and color stimulus of the North African countryside in the fashion of Paul Cézanne and Robert Delaunays' cubistic form concepts. The aim was not to imitate nature, but to create compositions analogous to nature's formative principle, as in the works \"In den Häusern von Saint-Germain\" (In the Houses of Saint-Germain) and \"Straßencafé\" (Streetcafé). Klee conveyed the scenery in a grid, so that it dissolves into colored harmony. He also created abstract works in that period such as \"Abstract\" and \"Farbige Kreise durch Farbbänder verbunden\" (Colored Circles Tied Through Inked Ribbons). He never abandoned the object; a permanent segregation never took place. It took over ten years that Klee worked on experiments and analysis of the color, resulting to an independent artificial work, whereby his design ideas were based on the colorful oriental world.\n\n\"Föhn im Marc'schen Garten\" (Foehn at Marc's Garden) was made after the Turin trip. It indicates the relations between color and the stimulus of Macke and Delaunay. Although elements of the garden are clearly visible, a further steering towards abstraction is noticeable. In his diary Klee wrote the following note at that time:\n\nIn the large molding pit are lying ruins, on which one partially hangs. They provide the material for the abstraction. […] The terrible the world, the abstract the art, while a happy world produces secularistic art.\nUnder the impression of his military service he created the painting \"Trauerblumen\" (Velvetbells) in 1917, which, with its graphical signs, vegetal and phantastic shapes, is a forerunner of his future works, harmonically combining graphic, color and object. For the first time birds appear in the pictures, such as in \"Blumenmythos\" (Flower Myth) from 1918, mirroring the flying and falling planes he saw in Gersthofen, and the photographed plane crashes.\n\nIn the 1918 watercolor painting \"Einst dem Grau der Nacht enttaucht\", a compositional implemented poem, possible written by Klee, he incorporated letters in small, in terms of color separated squares, cutting off the first verse from the second one with silver paper. At the top of the cardboard, which carries the picture, the verses are inscribed in manuscript form. Here, Klee did not lean on Delaunay's colors, but on Marc's, although the picture content of both painters does not correspond with each other. Herwarth Walden, Klee's art dealer, saw in them a \"Wachablösung\" (changing of the guard) of his art. Since 1919 he often used oil colors, with which he combined watercolors and colored pencil. The \"Villa R\" (Kunstmuseum Basel) from 1919 unites visible realities such as sun, moon, mountains, trees and architectures, as well as surreal pledges and sentiment readings.\n\nHis works during this time include \"Camel (in rhythmic landscape with trees)\" as well as other paintings with abstract graphical elements such as \"betroffener Ort\" (Affected Place) (1922). From that period he created \"Die Zwitscher-Maschine\" (The Twittering Machine), which was later removed from the National Gallery. After being named defamatory in the Munich exhibition \"Entartete Kunst\", the painting was later bought by the Buchholz Gallery, New York, and then transferred in 1939 to the Museum of Modern Art. The \"twittering\" in the title refers to the open-beaked birds, while the \"machine\" is illustrated by the crank. The watercolor painting appears at a first glance childish, but it allows more interpretations. The picture can be interpreted as a critic by Klee, who shows through denaturation of the birds, that the world technization heist the creatures' self-determination.\n\nOther examples from that period are \"der Goldfisch\" (The Goldfish) from 1925, \"Katze und Vogel\" (Cat and Bird), from 1928, and \"Hauptweg und Nebenwege\" (Mainway and Sideways) from 1929. Through variations of the canvas ground and his combinated painting techniques Klee created new color effects and picture impressions.\n\nIn 1931, Klee transferred to Düsseldorf to teach in the Akademie; the Nazis shut down the Bauhaus soon after. During this time, Klee illustrated a series of guardian angels. Among these figurations is \"In Engelshut\" (In the Angel's Care). Its overlaying technique evinces the polyphonic character of his drawing method between 1920 and 1932 .\n\nThe 1932 painting \"Ad Parnassum\" was also created in the Düsseldorfer period. With it is one of his largest paintings, as he usually worked with small formats. In this mosaic-like work in the style of pointillism he combined different techniques and compositional principles. Influenced by his trip to Egypt from 1928 to 1929, Klee built a color field from individually stamped dots, surrounded by likewise stamped lines, which results in a pyramid. Above the roof of the \"Parnassus\" there is a sun. The title identifies the picture as the home of Apollo and the Muses. During his 1929 travels through Egypt, Klee developed a sense of connection to the land, described by art historian Olivier Berggruen as a mystical feeling: \"In the desert, the sun's intense rays seemed to envelop all living things, and at night, the movement of the stars felt even more palpable. In the architecture of the ancient funerary moments Klee discovered a sense of proportion and measure in which human beings appeared to establish a convincing relationship with the immensity of the landscape; furthermore, he was drawn to the esoteric numerology that governed the way in which these monuments had been built.\" In 1933, the last year in Germany, he created a range of paintings and drawings; the catalogue raisonné comprised 482 works. The self-portrait in the same year – with the programmatic title \"von der Liste gestrichen\" (removed from the list) – provides information about his feeling after losing professorship. The abstract portrait was painted in dark colors and shows closed eyes and compressed lips, while on the back part of his head there is a large \"X\", symbolizing that his art was no longer valued in Germany.\nIn this period Klee mainly worked on large-sized pictures. After the onset of illness, there were about 25 works in the 1936 catalogue, but his productivity increased in 1937 to 264 pictures, 1938 to 489, and 1939 – his most productive year – to 1254. They dealt with ambivalent themes, expressing his personal fate, the political situation and his joke. Examples are the watercolor painting \"Musiker\" (musician), a stickman face with partially serious, partially smiling mouth; and the \"Revolution des Viadukts\" (Revolution of the Viadukt), an anti-fascist art. In \"Viadukt\" (1937) the bridge arches split from the bank as they refuse to be linked to a chain and are therefore rioting.\nSince 1938, Klee worked more intensively with hieroglyphic-like elements. The painting \"Insula dulcamara\" from the same year, which is one of his largest (), shows a white face in the middle of the elements, symbolizing death with its black-circled eye sockets. Bitterness and sorrow are not rare in much of his works during this time.\n\nKlee created in 1940 a picture which strongly differs from the previous works, leaving it unsigned on the scaffold. The comparatively realistic still life, \"Ohne Titel\", later named as \"Der Todesengel\" (Angel of Death), depicts flowers, a green pot, sculpture and an angel. The moon on black ground is separated from these groups. During his 60th birthday Klee was photographed in front of this picture.\n\n\"Klee's act is very prestigious. In a minimum of one line he can reveal his wisdom. He is everything; profound, gentle and many more of the good things, and this because: he is innovative\", wrote Oskar Schlemmer, Klee's future artist colleague at the Bauhaus, in his September 1916 diary.\n\nNovelist and Klee's friend Wilhelm Hausenstein wrote in his work \"Über Expressionismus in der Malerei\" (On Expressionism in Painting), \"Maybe Klee's attitude is in general understandable for musical people – how Klee is one of the most delightsome violinist playing Bach and Händel, who ever walked on earth. […] For Klee, the German classic painter of the Cubism, the world music became his companion, possibly even a part of his art; the composition, written in notes, seems to be not dissimilar.\"\n\nWhen Klee visited the Paris surrealism exhibition in 1925, Max Ernst was impressed by his work. His partially morbid motifs appealed to the surrealists. André Breton helped to develop the surrealism and renamed Klee's 1912 painting \"Zimmerperspektive mit Einwohnern\" (Room Perspective with People) to \"chambre spirit\" in a catalogue. Critic René Crevel called the artist a \"dreamer\" who \"releases a swarm of small lyrical louses from mysterious abysses.\" Paul Klee's confidante Will Grohmann argued in the \"Cahiers d'art\" that he \"stands definitely well solid on his feet. He is by no means a dreamer; he is a modern person, who teaches as a professor at the Bauhaus.\" Whereupon Breton, as Joan Miró remembers, was critical of Klee: \"Masson and I have both discovered Paul Klee. Paul Éluard and Crevel are also interested in Klee, and they have even visited him. But Breton despises him.\"\n\nThe art of mentally ill people inspired Klee as well as Kandinsky and Max Ernst, after Hans Prinzhorns book \"Bildnerei der Geisteskranken\" (Artistry of the Mentally Ill) was published in 1922. In 1937, some papers from Prinzhorn's anthology were presented at the National Socialist propaganda exhibition \"Entartete Kunst\" in Munich, with the purpose of defaming the works of Kirchner, Klee, Nolde and other artists by likening them to the works of the insane.\n\nIn 1949 Marcel Duchamp commented on Paul Klee: \"The first reaction in front of a Klee painting is the very pleasant discovery, what everyone of us could or could have done, to try drawing like in our childhood. Most of his compositions show at the first glance a plain, naive expression, found in children's drawings. […] At a second analyse one can discover a technique, which takes as a basis a large maturity in thinking. A deep understanding of dealing with watercolors to paint a personal method in oil, structured in decorative shapes, let Klee stand out in the contemporary art and make him incomparable. On the other side, his experiment was adopted in the last 30 years by many other artists as a basis for newer creations in the most different areas in painting. His extreme productivity never shows evidence of repetition, as is usually the case. He had so much to say, that a Klee never became an other Klee.\"\n\nOne of Klee's paintings, \"Angelus Novus\", was the object of an interpretative text by German philosopher and literary critic Walter Benjamin, who purchased the painting in 1921. In his \"Theses on the Philosophy of History\" Benjamin suggests that the angel depicted in the painting might be seen as representing the angel of history.\n\nUnlike his taste for adventurous modern experiment in painting, Klee, though musically talented, was attracted to older traditions of music; he neither appreciated composers of the late 19th century, such as Wagner, Bruckner and Mahler, nor contemporary music. Bach and Mozart were for him the greatest composers; he most enjoyed playing the works by the latter.\n\nKlee's work has influenced composers such as Argentinian Roberto García Morillo in 1943, with \"Tres pinturas de Paul Klee\". Others include the American composer David Diamond in 1958, with the four-part Opus \"Welt von Paul Klee\" (World of Paul Klee). Gunther Schuller composed \"Seven Studies on Themes of Paul Klee\" in the years 1959/60, consisting of \"Antique Harmonies\", \"Abstract Trio\", \"Little Blue Devil\", \"Twittering Machine\", \"Arab Village\", \"An Eerie Moment\", and \"Pastorale\". The Spanish composer Benet Casablancas wrote \"Alter Klang\", Impromptu for Orchestra after Klee (2006); Casablancas is author also of the \"Retablo on texts by Paul Klee\", Cantata da Camera for Soprano, Mezzo and Piano (2007). In 1950, Giselher Klebe performed his orchestral work \"Die Zwitschermaschine\" with the subtitle \"Metamorphosen über das Bild von Paul Klee\" at the Donaueschinger Musiktage. \"8 Pieces on Paul Klee\" is the title of the debut album by the Ensemble Sortisatio, recorded February and March 2002 in Leipzig and August 2002 in Luzern, Switzerland. The composition \"Wie der Klee vierblättrig wurde\" (How the clover became four-leaved) was inspired by the watercolor painting \"Hat Kopf, Hand, Fuss und Herz\" (1930), \"Angelus Novus\" and \"Hauptweg und Nebenwege\".\n\nIn 1968, a jazz group called The National Gallery featuring composer Chuck Mangione released the album \"Performing Musical Interpretations of the Paintings of Paul Klee\". In 1995 the Greek experimental filmmaker, Kostas Sfikas, created a film based entirely on Paul Klee's paintings. The film is entitled \"Paul Klee's Prophetic Bird of Sorrows\", and draws its title from Klee's Landscape with Yellow Birds. It was made using portions and cutouts from Paul Klee's paintings. Director Vassilis Mazomenos was the production designer of the film\n\n\nSince 1995, the \"Paul Klee-Archiv\" (Paul Klee archive) of the University of Jena houses an extensive collection of works by Klee. It is located within the art history department, established by Franz-Joachim Verspohl. It encompasses the private library of book collector Rolf Sauerwein which contains nearly 700 works from 30 years composed of monographs about Klee, exhibition catalogues, extensive secondary literature as well as originally illustrated issues, a postcard and a signed photography portrait of Klee.\n\nArchitect Renzo Piano constructed the Zentrum Paul Klee in June 2005. Located in Bern, the museum exhibits about 150 (of 4000 Klee works overall) in a six-month rotation, as it is impossible to show all of his works at once. Furthermore, his pictures require rest periods; they contain relatively photosensitive colors, inks and papers, which may bleach, change, turn brown and become brittle if exposed to light for too long. The San Francisco Museum of Modern Art has a comprehensive Klee collection, donated by Carl Djerassi. Other exhibitions include the Sammlung Rosengart in Luzern, the Albertina in Wien and the Berggruen Museum in Berlin. Schools in Gersthofen, Lübeck; Klein-Winternheim, Overath; his place of birth Münchenbuchsee and Düsseldorf bear his name.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10655058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10655058", "title": "Robert Dana", "text": "Robert Dana\n\nRobert Dana (June 2, 1929 – February 6, 2010) was an American poet, who taught writing and English literature at Cornell College and many other schools, revived \"The North American Review\" and served as its editor during the years 1964–1968, and was the poet laureate for the State of Iowa from 2004 to 2008.\n\nRobert Patrick Dana was born in Boston, Massachusetts, in 1929. At the age of seven he became an orphan, and was uprooted and moved to the western part of the state where he was raised as a foster child in the home of James Francis (\"Pop\") Kearney in Haydenville, Massachusetts. He served in the South Pacific near the end of World War II as a US Navy radio operator, and during lulls in the action found that he loved writing poetry. After being honorably discharged in 1948, he spent a year at Holyoke Junior College on the GI Bill, then sold his raincoat and watch to purchase a one-way bus ticket to Des Moines, Iowa. There he attended Drake University, studying with the poet E. L. Mayo, while supporting himself by working as a sports writer for the \"Des Moines Register\".\n\nUpon graduation, he moved to far northwestern Iowa where he taught school for a year in George, Iowa. He then moved to the other side of the state, studying with Robert Lowell and John Berryman at the University of Iowa and the Iowa Writers' Workshop, where he joined a group of noted writers including Donald Justice, Henri Coulette, Jane Cooper, and Philip Levine. He received his master's degree in 1954, and at the age of 25 was promptly hired by Cornell College, Mount Vernon, Iowa; he remains the youngest person ever hired for a tenure-track faculty position there. He taught writing and English literature at Cornell from 1954 to 1994, eventually serving as both Professor of English and Poet-in-Residence.\n\nIn 1964, Dana was responsible for the resumption of the publication of \"The North American Review\". This required negotiating with Claiborne Pell, who was a US Senator from Rhode Island at the time and maintained that he had the rights to the magazine's publication. After successfully concluding those arrangements, Dana served as the NAR's editor until 1968. Ron Sandvik, a later managing editor of the NAR, characterized Dana's role in rescuing it from oblivion as \"a huge gift\", saying \"there are a lot of people who are indebted to him.\"\n\nDana also held teaching assignments at a number of other schools, including the University of Florida, Wayne State University, University of Idaho, Wichita State University, Stockholm University, and Beijing University.\n\nDana published over a dozen collections of his poetry, wrote two prose books and edited a third. In addition, Dana's poetry, essays, and critical reviews have appeared in publications such as \"The Nation\", \"The New Yorker\", \"The New York Times\", \"The Christian Science Monitor\", \"Poetry\", \"The American Poetry Review\", \"The Iowa Review\" and the \"Sewanee Review\".\n\nDana's poetry won a number of awards. His poetry collection \"Starting Out for the Difficult World\" was nominated for the Pulitzer Prize in 1988. In 1989, he was the recipient of the Delmore Schwartz Memorial Award for Poetry, given by New York University for a poet who was \"insufficiently recognized\". He received the Carl Sandburg Medal for Poetry in 1994, a Pushcart Prize in 1996, and the Rainer Maria Rilke Prize for Poetry. He was also the recipient of two National Endowment for the Arts Fellowships (1985 and 1993). In September 2004, Robert Dana was named poet laureate for the State of Iowa, serving until 2008.\n\nFellow poet Marvin Bell said that Dana \"went about his life and work without getting caught up in the petty rivalries of the poetry world\".\n\nM.L. Rosenthal, the prominent critic and champion of poetry, felt that Dana was a \"richly lyrical poet\" who was \"very hard on himself and on the Karma of our world, whose work this whole country would recognize itself in, if it ever started to open books of poems.\"\n\nDana married twice, the first time for 22 years to Mary (Kowalke) Dana (later, Ware); the second time for 35 years to Peg (Sellen) Dana. He had three children from his first marriage: Lori Dana, Arden Dana, and Richard Dana. He answered editing questions about his forthcoming book \"Paris on the Flats\" the day before he died of pancreatic cancer at Mercy Hospice in Iowa City at the age of 80.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "867523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=867523", "title": "Robert Maynard Hutchins", "text": "Robert Maynard Hutchins\n\nRobert Maynard Hutchins (January 17, 1899 – May 14, 1977), was an American educational philosopher, president (1929–1945) and chancellor (1945–1951) of the University of Chicago, and earlier dean of Yale Law School (1927–1929). He was the husband of novelist Maude Hutchins. Although his father and grandfather were both Presbyterian ministers, Hutchins became one of the most influential members of the school of secular perennialism.\n\nA graduate of Yale University and its law school, Hutchins joined the law faculty and soon was named Dean, where he gained notice for Yale's development of the philosophy of Legal Realism. Hutchins was 30 years old when he became Chicago's president in 1929. While he was president, Hutchins implemented wide-ranging and sometimes controversial reforms of the University, including the elimination of varsity football. He supported interdisciplinary programs, including during World War II, establishing the Metallurgical Laboratory. His most far-reaching academic reforms involved the undergraduate College of the University of Chicago, which was retooled into a novel pedagogical system built on Great Books, Socratic dialogue, comprehensive examinations and early entrance to college. Although parts of the Hutchins Plan was abandoned by the University shortly after Hutchins left in 1951, an adapted version of the program survives at Shimer College in Chicago.\n\nHutchins left Chicago to head the Ford Foundation where he channeled resources into studying education. In 1959, he founded the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions a think tank in Santa Barbara, California.\n\nRobert Maynard Hutchins was born in Brooklyn in 1899, the second of three sons of William James Hutchins, a Presbyterian minister and future Berea College president. Eight years later, the family moved to Oberlin, Ohio, site of Oberlin College, where William Hutchins became an instructor. Oberlin was a small community dedicated to evangelical ideals of righteousness and hard work, which had a lifelong influence on Hutchins. Hutchins studied at Oberlin Academy and subsequently Oberlin College from 1915 to 1917.\n\nAt age 18 in 1917, shortly after the United States entered World War I, Hutchins joined the ambulance service of the United States Army, together with his brother William. The Hutchins brothers served in an all-Oberlin unit, Section 587, which for much of the war was stationed at the Allentown Fair Grounds, where they were tasked with creating a barracks. Upon subsequent deployment to Italy, Hutchins was awarded the Croce di Guerra.\n\nReturning from the war in 1919, Hutchins went to Yale University (B.A. 1921). At Yale he encountered a very different society from what he had known before at Oberlin; the tone was set by preparatory school graduates who defied Prohibition. However, Hutchins did not enjoy the same level of financial support, and in his junior and senior years, he worked menial jobs for up to six hours per day to cover living expenses. In his senior year, he was tapped for the Wolf's Head Society. Having already fulfilled his graduation requirements, he also enrolled in Yale Law School. Fascinated by the case method, Hutchins subsequently regarded this as the beginning of his true education. Shortly after his graduation in 1921, Hutchins married Maude Phelps McVeigh. They would have three daughters together, the first born in 1925.\n\nAfter spending a year teaching high school History and English in Lake Placid, New York, he was hired to become the Secretary of the Yale Corporation. In this position he was the principal assistant to the president of Yale, with responsibility for alumni relations and fundraising. Returning to New Haven, he also resumed his studies at Yale Law School (LL.B 1925). Upon completing his LL.B., graduating at the top of his class, he was invited to join the Yale Law faculty, teaching courses on evidence and utility law. He became acting Dean of Yale Law School in 1927, and full Dean in 1928. It was at this point, when he was the Dean of Yale Law while still in his 20s, that Hutchins became a national figure.\n\nAt the time, Yale Law School was dominated by the Legal Realists and Hutchins sought to promote Legal Realism during his time as dean. Skeptical of the received rules of evidence that he had taught as a professor, he worked to integrate the findings of psychology, sociology and logic with the law. His supporters in this enterprise included William O. Douglas, who left Columbia School of Law to work under Hutchins at Yale. Hutchins played a key role in convincing the Rockefeller Foundation to fund an Institute of Human Relations at Yale, to foster partnerships between the social sciences and law and medicine.\n\nIn 1929, he moved to Chicago, Illinois to become President of the University of Chicago at the age of 30, becoming the youngest president of a university in the country. Over the next several years, Hutchins came to question Legal Realism, which he had previously championed, and grew skeptical of the ability of empirical research in the social sciences to solve social problems, especially in the face of the Great Depression. Particularly through contact with Mortimer Adler, he became convinced that the solution to the philosophical problems facing the university lay in Aristotelianism and Thomism. In the late 1930s, Hutchins attempted to reform the curriculum of the University of Chicago along Aristotelian-Thomist lines, only to have the faculty reject his proposed reforms three times.\n\nHutchins served as President of the University of Chicago until 1945, and as the University's Chancellor until 1951. During his Chancellorship, he recruited a commission to inquire into the proper function of the media. By 1947, the Hutchins Commission issued their report on the \"social responsibility\" of the press.\n\nHutchins was notable as a defender of academic freedom. When the University was accused of fostering communism in 1935 (by Charles Rudolph Walgreen, who claimed his niece had been indoctrinated with communist ideas whilst studying there) and again in 1949, Hutchins defended the right of the University's faculty to teach as they wished, arguing that the best way to defeat communism was through open debate and scrutiny, rather than suppression. \"Hutchins stood behind his faculty and their right to teach and believe as they wished, insisting that communism could not withstand the scrutiny of public analysis and debate.\"\n\nHutchins was able to implement his ideas regarding a two-year, generalist bachelors during his tenure at Chicago, and subsequently had designated those studying in depth in a field as masters students. He moreover pulled Chicago out of the Big Ten Conference and eliminated the school's football program, which he saw as a campus distraction. Hutchins heaped scorn upon schools which received more press coverage for their sports teams than for their educational programs, and the trustees provided the support he needed to drop football in 1939. The decision was hailed by many, and Hutchins today serves as a model for those who argue that commercialized college sports are incompatible with the academic and intellectual aims of institutions of higher learning.\n\nHe also worked to eliminate fraternities and religious organizations for the same reason. While he exhibited great fervor for his curricular project and numerous notable alumni were produced during the period, nevertheless, the business community as well as donors became highly skeptical of the value of the program, and eventually were able to have the four-year, traditional A.B. and S.B. reinstated (and in time, football). The College's financial clout, which had been considerable prior to his tenure, underwent a serious downgrading with decreased collegiate enrollment and a drying up of donations from the school's principal Chicago area benefactors. As such, his critics view him as a dangerous idealist who pushed the school out of the national limelight and temporarily thwarted its possible expansion, while his supporters argue that it was his changes that kept Chicago intellectually unique and from taking on the vocational inclinations that he denigrated in his writings.\n\nAfter leaving his position at the University, Hutchins became head of the Ford Foundation. Due to the rapid growth of the US automotive industry in the early 1950s, the Ford Foundation was running such large surpluses that it attracted unwanted attention from the Internal Revenue Service. Hutchins was thus able to steer substantial funds into his areas of interest, establishing the Fund for the Advancement of Education and Fund for Adult Education. The Fund for the Advancement of Education sponsored projects including nationwide teacher training and college early entrance programs at 12 colleges. The programs at three of these colleges, Goucher College, the University of Utah, and Shimer College, continue in operation today. The Fund for Adult Education sponsored experimental educational programs for adults, chiefly in the liberal arts; these included the National Educational Television network which later became PBS.\n\nAfter leaving the Ford Foundation, Hutchins founded the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions in 1959, which was his attempt to bring together a community of scholars to analyze this broad area. Hutchins described the Center's goal as examining democratic institutions \"by taking a multidisciplinary look at the state of the democratic world – and the undemocratic world as well, because one has to contrast the two and see how they are going to develop.\" He further stated, \"After discovering what is going on, or trying to discover what is going on, the Center offers its observations for such public consideration as the public is willing to give them\".\n\nWhile modified and reduced in form, the collegiate curriculum at the University of Chicago to this day reflects the Great Books and Socratic method championed by Hutchins' Secular Perennialism. In addition, a direct descendant of the program continues in operation at Shimer College in Chicago, which was affiliated with the University until the mid-1950s. A classroom and scholarship for early entrants at Shimer still bear his name. A somewhat more distantly related program is operated at St. John's College.\n\nCarl Sagan in \"The Demon-Haunted World\" says that he was \"lucky enough\" to have studied under Hutchins, \"where science was presented as an integral part of the gorgeous tapestry of human knowledge.\"\n\nThroughout his career, Hutchins was a fierce proponent of using those select books that have gained a reputation of being great books as an educational tool. In his interview in 1970 titled, \"Don't Just Do Something\", Hutchins explained, \"...the Great Books [are] the most promising avenue to liberal education if only because they are teacher-proof.\" Illustrating his dedication to the Great Books, Hutchins served as Editor In Chief of \"Great Books of the Western World\" and \"Gateway to the Great Books\". Additionally, he served as coeditor of \"The Great Ideas Today\", Chairman of the Board of Editors of \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" from 1943 to 1974, and also published extensively under his own name.\n\nAccording to Hutchins in \"The University of Utopia\", \"The object of the educational system, taken as a whole, is not to produce hands for industry or to teach the young how to make a living. It is to produce responsible citizens\". In \"The University of Utopia\", Hutchins describes a country that has evolved to become the perfect society, Utopia, as well as their educational system, which has the well-defined purpose of \"promot[ing] the intellectual development of the people\". Hutchins also explores some of the improper directions educational institutions have taken in the United States. He argues that education is becoming nothing more than a trade school, and a poor trade school at that. Hutchins discusses the relationship between a foundry and the local college in a particular town in California. This college offers courses on doing foundry work, which instruct students to become workers at the foundry. In this way, the college is satisfying the need of the community for foundry workers rather than the intellectual needs of the individual. Further, Hutchins asserts that the foundry students actually receive poor training since educators do not have the practical experience of working in the foundry. Hutchins believes the students would receive a much more efficient and thorough education on working in a foundry by actually working in that foundry. He claims Universities should instead teach intellectual content, specifically the intellectual content related to the occupation, but that the occupation itself should take responsibility for training its employees. Hutchins also warns that education has shifted its focus from being educational to custodial. He charges that many schools have become no more than baby-sitting services for adolescents, protecting them from the tumultuous world of youth. He cites courses in home economics and driver's education as focusing on meeting a societal need rather than an educational goal. Hutchins also berates education for the path it has taken regarding specialization. According to Hutchins in his essay, \"The Idea of a College,\" the specialization of American education has robbed students of the ability to communicate with other students outside of their field. He argues that a student of biology cannot converse meaningfully with a student of mathematics because they share no common educational experience.\n\nIn \"The University of Utopia\", Hutchins outlines the educational experience of young Utopians, where the first ten years of instruction prepare students for the learning experiences to come. Communication is the primary skill developed. Students learn to read, write, and discuss issues in preparation for their future lifetime of learning. Students study science and mathematics, which form part of the groundwork for future learning. History, geography, and literature are also studied to add to the framework for even deeper learning later in life. Finally, art and music are studied because these are considered the elements that make society great.\n\nThroughout these fields of study in Utopia, the Great Books, those books that shaped Western thought, are used as study material and are discussed by classes using the Socratic method. The Socratic method, named for Socrates and his method of teaching, involves the teacher's keeping the discussion on topic and guiding it away from errors of logic. In a discussion conducted in accordance with Socratic principles, unexamined opinions are fair game, and only reason itself is the final arbiter. Thus, any conclusions reached in such a discussion are the individual's own, not necessarily those of a class consensus, and certainly not necessarily the teacher's. The Great Books are a natural choice, since they are considered to be works of genius, timeless, and ever relevant to society. Why settle for lesser materials when you can have the best? Despite his other foci, Hutchins does not entirely shun the laboratory world; he believes, however, that some such things are best learned through discovery once a student has been graduated to the outside world.\n\nIn Utopia, initial schooling is followed by college, which continues the study of a highly prescribed curriculum. Here, however, the focus shifts from learning the techniques of communication to exploring some of man's principal concepts of the world and the leading ideas that have propelled mankind. After college, students sit for an extensive exam created by an outside board, which reflects what an education appropriate to a free person should be. This rigorous exam is similar to those taken throughout a student's education but is more comprehensive. When the student passes this exam, he or she is awarded a Bachelor of Arts Degree. The degree is conferred based on the mastery of this information, not on the number of classes taken, credits earned, or hours spent in class.\n\nAfter proving that they have the necessary education to become a part of the republic of learning and of the political republic, the student may enter the work world or continue his or her formal education at the University. Once departing from formal education, a lifetime of learning follows for the citizens of Utopia. They visit centers of learning to explore and discuss ideas and analyze great works. These centers of learning are residential institutions where citizens go during what Americans would traditionally think of as vacation time. If they choose to matriculate to University, students begin to specialize, but they do not study collection of data, technical training, or solutions to immediate practical problems, but rather they explore the intellectual ideas specific to their chosen field. Here, students study in much less formal situations but with no less vigor. During their initial schooling and college, students had to prove that they could learn independently; if they then chose to attend a University, they were expected to make effective use of those skills.\n\nIn addition to Hutchins's belief that school should pursue intellectual ideas rather than practical, he also believed that schools should not teach a specific set of values. \"It is not the object of a college to make its students good, because the college cannot do it; if it tries to do it, it will fail; it will weaken the agencies that should be discharging this responsibility, and it will not discharge its own responsibility.\" The schools should not be in the business of teaching students what is right and just; it should be in the business of helping students make their own determinations.\n\nCritics will point out that the great books do not have one answer to what justice is or isn't. In fact, there are many contradictory answers to this question. But what some see as a weakness, Hutchins sees as a strength. Hutchins asserts that students should be exposed to these conflicting ideas so that they may weigh and balance them in their own minds, boiling down the arguments and synthesizing a view of their own. In this way, and only in this way, can students learn what justice, beauty, and good really are.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7302331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7302331", "title": "Science Education at the Crossroads", "text": "Science Education at the Crossroads\n\nScience Education at the Crossroads is an annual national academic conference, initially funded by the National Science Foundation, designed to enable various stakeholders in science education to confer in a legitimate and productive manner. The conference also claims to offer an alternative to the standard model of conferring and professional development. Conference creators and coordinators are John Settlage of the University of Connecticut and Adam Johnston of Weber State University.\n\nMany organizations and conferences exist for science educators. These include the National Science Teachers Association (NSTA), the National Association for Research in Science Teaching (NARST), the Association for Science Teacher Education (ASTE), and many others dedicated to specific fields (e.g., physics and chemistry) within science education. While these organizations are adept at presenting research results or at sharing innovations in teaching, organizers and many participants in Crossroads feel that none of them provide a means for new research questions, policy directives, or general science education goals to be discussed and deliberated.\n\nCrossroads uses the Vexation and Venture format for conference sessions in which an \"Incubator Forum\" allows for an interactive, discussion based and dynamic intersection of views. This mode of interaction has been shown to engage presenters and participants in a way that new ideas and problems can be proposed, and the group takes on responsibility for a generative session. In this format, problems (vexations) are dissected and their possible specific solutions (ventures) are proposed. In this manner, the process of research and innovation is presented in a public forum in its early development stages, rather than after its completion, as would be the case in other academic conference formats.\n\nParticipants represent backgrounds from science and education, and represent perspectives from classroom teaching, policy, and research. This variety of perspectives allows each participant to tap into expertise that they might not otherwise encounter within the typical course of their professional lives. In this regard the metaphor of a crossroads describes a culture and place where people can meet.\n\nCrossroads originated from a disenchantment with more traditional education conferences. As a consequence, Crossroads was designed, utilizing the Vexation and Venture format, to make generative discussions a deliberate feature of the conference.\n\nCrossroads has a history of finding a specific place and space each year for conferring. Oscillating from venue to venue has allowed each year to have its own character, as well as allow people from specific regions to have more access to the conference. Crossroads has been held at the following venues:\n\nCrossroads has a history of inviting poets as keynotes to its conferences. These have included:\n\nAdditionally, illustrator/artist/educator Fred Lynch contributed the keynote address in 2012.\n\nCrossroads has also established a line of work that has called for scholarly work in science education to reach out to create significant impact in education. This has been referred to as \"scholar activism\" by David Moss, Crossroads' first keynote speaker in 2005. Other speakers have included John Settlage in 2006, Adam Johnston in 2007, Heidi Carlone in 2008, and Magnia George in 2009. Conference organizers have contributed joint addresses in 2011 and 2012.\n\n\"Science Education at the Crossroads\" has moved its conference each fall, from east to west and back again, through the year 2009. Most notably, National Science Foundation funding was established to fund the conference from 2007 - 2009. In 2010, the conference organizers are considering next steps for future sequences of the event.\n\nVexation and Venture conference format\n\nScience Education at the Crossroads main site\n"}
{"id": "24022867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24022867", "title": "Tatiana Stepanova", "text": "Tatiana Stepanova\n\nTatiana Victorovna Stepanova, also Tetyana Stepanova, (; , \"Tatiana Victorovna Stepanova\") (born 1962, Odessa, Ukraine then Soviet Union) is a Ballet master, choreographer, ballet dancer, critic, essayist and historian of the dance.\n\nTatiana Stepanova began her ballet training in the Special School of Ballet of Odessa (Ukraine) as a student of Klaudia Vasina, who was a disciple of the great Russian dancer and teacher Agrippina Vaganova. She completed her dance training at the State School of Ballet and Choreography of Minsk² (Belarus) where she was a pupil of Vera Shvetsova (distinguished disciple of Agrippina Vaganova), who danced in the Maly Theatre of Saint Petersburg (Russia) and in the Great Theater of Opera and Ballet of Riga (Latvia).\n\nStepanova graduated in Choreographic Art from the Saint Petersburg Conservatory³, Russia (The N.A. Rimsky-Korsakov Saint Petersburg State Conservatory), where she studied with Gabriella Komleva, Nikita Dolgushin and Nicolai Boyarchikov, great dancers of the Mariinsky Theatre (before Kirov Ballet) and of the Mikhaylovsky Theatre (before Maly Theatre) both in Saint Petersburg.\n\nShe danced as the soloist in the Odessa Opera and Ballet Theater¹ (Ukraine) and in the Great Theater of Ballet of Minsk² (Belarus).\n\nSince 1985, is a Teacher of Ballet, giving classes in Odessa (Ukraine), Saratov and Saint Petersburg (Russia), Madrid, Valencia, Puertollano and Lugo (Spain) and Ashiya and Nishinomiya (Japan)\n\nFounder and Artistic Director of the Institute of Investigation and Studies of Dance (Instituto de Investigación y Estudios de Danza) in Madrid (Spain).\n\nStepanova has published numerous articles of criticism in newspapers and weeklies in the Ukraine (Vecherniaya Odessal), Russia (Glásnost, Perestroika and Dance), Spain (El Cultural of La Razón) and United States.\n\nAs a teacher intent on purity and on the maintenance of choreographic heritage of classical ballet, Stepanova created a short version of The Sleeping Beauty (1h 20'), which best maintains the heritage of Marius Petipa in the steps that are conserved as well as in those that are added in his style. This version premiered December seven, 2008, in the Hyogo Performing Arts Center (Nishinomiya, Japan), under the title of \"Sleeping Beauty Suite\".\n\nCurrently, Tatyana Stepanova directs the Institute of Investigation and Studies of Dance in Madrid, (Spain) and is the Artistic Director of the AIS Ballet Japan in Ashiya (Japan).\n\n\n\nStepanova is known for the Ashiya's Diptych, a suite of works of Marius Petipa. She reinterpreted the pieces in such a way that her choreography seamlessly combines with that of Petipa.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34193165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34193165", "title": "Teaching with Calvin and Hobbes", "text": "Teaching with Calvin and Hobbes\n\n\"Teaching with\" Calvin and Hobbes is an American children's textbook published in 1993. As a rare piece of officially licensed \"Calvin and Hobbes\" merchandise, it is a highly valued collectible.\n\nWritten by a speech-language pathologist and a learning disabilities educator, \"Teaching with\" Calvin and Hobbes is a language textbook for elementary and intermediate-level students. Jan Roebken created the cover and additional interior illustrations.\n\nThe book reprints fifty-seven \"Calvin and Hobbes\" comic strips, organized into five lesson units. Each unit begins with a series of comic strips that form a story. The five units are:\n\n\nIn each unit, questions for comprehension and discussion follow the comic strips:\n\nIn both the 1996 first edition and the 2006 second edition of their book \"How to Reach and Teach All Children in the Inclusive Classroom\", teachers Sandra F. Rief and Julie A. Heimburge \"highly recommend\" \"Teaching with' Calvin and Hobbes as an educational resource.\n\nOwing to Bill Watterson's principled refusal to license his comic strip for merchandise in general, \"Teaching with\" Calvin and Hobbes is an exceptional item; a license was granted to the authors after they personally communicated to Watterson the success they had using his comic strip to teach children with learning disabilities.\n\nPublished in a limited print run in Fargo, North Dakota, \"Teaching with Calvin and Hobbes\" is a very rare and highly sought-after book.\n\nIn the 2010 revised edition of his book \"Looking for Calvin and Hobbes: The Unconventional Story of Bill Watterson and His Revolutionary Comic Strip\", Nevin Martell says that only after a long search did he obtain a copy of \"Teaching with\" Calvin and Hobbes, that copies of the book sell for very high prices, and that the book is \"perhaps the most difficult piece of official \"Calvin and Hobbes\" memorabilia to find.\"\n\nThe book price comparison website Dualj.com, which tracked sale prices of books, recorded that a copy of \"Teaching with\" Calvin and Hobbes sold for US$10,000 in 2009. Valuations for the book ranged to US$34,000 in 2012. A copy was sold on eBay for an \"extremely generous\" donation to the HALO Trust charity in 2013.\n\nWorldCat lists only eight libraries in the entire world as holding a copy of the book: the United States Library of Congress, the Chester Fritz Library along with only three other libraries in North Dakota (where the book was published), and one university library each in Ohio, California, and Singapore. The Chester Fritz Library at the University of North Dakota preserves its copy of \"Teaching with\" Calvin and Hobbes in the library's Special Collections Department for rare publications and manuscripts.\n\n"}
{"id": "21315109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21315109", "title": "Teton Science Schools", "text": "Teton Science Schools\n\nTeton Science Schools (TSS) is an educational organization located in northwest Wyoming and Idaho. TSS runs programs in field education, classroom education, and educator development. Founded in 1967, TSS began through teaching about the natural world and the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem together through the study of nature and place-based education. Teton Science Schools serves students from across Wyoming, the Intermountain West, the nation and around the world. \n\nTeton Science Schools operate place-based programs for students, adults and families, wildlife expeditions, field science education programs, a graduate program in place-based field science education, education learning programs for teachers, and two independent schools. \n\nIn 2015, the organization integrated the Murie Center, a nonprofit conservation organization located on the Murie Ranch in Moose, Wyoming.\n\nTeton Science Schools is a private, 501(c)(3) non-profit educational organization, operating year-round in Jackson Hole, Wyoming in partnership with Grand Teton National Park and as a permittee of the Bridger-Teton National Forest.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1420646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1420646", "title": "Texas A&amp;M College of Geosciences", "text": "Texas A&amp;M College of Geosciences\n\nTexas A&M College of Geosciences is a college of Texas A&M University located in College Station, Texas. The college has six academic departments and programs, including Atmospheric Sciences, Geography, Geology & Geophysics, Oceanography, Environmental Programs in Geosciences, and the Water Management & Hydrological Science (WMHS) Program. In addition, the College hosts three Research Centers and Institutes: https://web.archive.org/web/20080522012111/http://www-gerg.tamu.edu/ Geochemical & Environmental Research Group (GERG), Integrated Ocean Drilling Program (IODP), and Texas Sea Grant College Program.\n\nThe College of Geosciences is located on the main campus of Texas A&M University in College Station, Texas.\n\nThe David G. Eller Oceanography & Meteorology Building (O&M Building) has a total of of office, classroom, laboratory and storage space and is home to the Departments of Atmospheric Sciences, Geography, and Oceanography. At 15 floors, it is the tallest building on campus, and hosts a Doppler weather radar System on the roof.\n\nThe Michel T. Halbouty Geosciences Building is named in honor of Distinguished Alumnus and successful oil and gas developer Michel T. Halbouty, class of 1930. It has a total of of office, classroom, laboratory and storage space, and is home to the Department of Geology & Geophysics.\n\nIODP is located in Research Park in a custom built facility. It houses the Laboratory and Core Repository Facility, provides facilities for visiting scientists from around the world, and is the site of a new .5 million Core Storage Facility, which added to the existing complex.\n\nGERG is located on of land approximately five miles south of the Texas A&M main campus. It houses state-of-the-art offices and laboratories for geochemical analysis. It is also the home of the Texas Automated Buoy System (TABS), which was created by the Texas General Land Grant Office in 1994 to provide real-time observations of surface currents and water temperature in the Gulf of Mexico.\n\nTexas Sea Grant is located about three miles (5 km) southeast of the main campus of Texas A&M. It houses administrative offices, Marine Information Service and some members of the Marine Advisory Service.\n\nThe College of Geosciences offers a wide range of undergraduate and graduate degrees.\nThe college offers undergraduate majors in the following areas:\n\nThe college offers M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in the following areas:\n\nThe college offers Minors in the following areas:\n\nThe college has three Certificate Programs:\n\nThere are more than 7,496 former students of the College of Geosciences. In total the college has awarded 4,852 bachelor's degrees, 1,931 master's degrees, and 713 Doctoral Degrees.\nAs of spring 2008, there were 738 students with majors in Geosciences Degree Programs. 456 students were male, while 282 were female.\n\nThe College of Geosciences is home to 109 faculty, 3 Research Faculty, 27 Research Scientists, 140 Research Staff, and 13 Post Doctoral Fellows.\nCollege faculty are among the most respected in their fields. They have garnered numerous awards, including:\n\nAs of the 2008 Fiscal Year, the Annual University Allocated Operating Budget was $14.1 million, and total endowments were $16.684 million. There are 11 Endowed Chairs, 9 Endowed Professorships, and 43 Endowed Student Scholarships/Fellowships in the College.\n\n"}
{"id": "4027896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4027896", "title": "The Institutes for the Achievement of Human Potential", "text": "The Institutes for the Achievement of Human Potential\n\nThe Institutes for The Achievement of Human Potential (IAHP), founded in 1955 by Glenn Doman and Carl Delacato, provide literature on and teaches patterning therapy (motor learning), which the Institutes promote as improving the \"neurologic organization\" of \"brain injured\" and healthy children through a variety of programs, including diet and exercise. It is headquartered in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania with offices and programs offered in several other countries. Pattern therapy for patients with neuromuscular disorders was first developed by neurosurgeon Temple Fay in the 1940s. Patterning has been widely criticized and multiple studies have found the therapy ineffective,\n\nThe Institutes for the Achievement of Human Potential (IAHP, also known as \"The Institutes\") was founded in 1955. It practices pattern therapy, which was developed by Doman and educational psychologist Carl Delacato. Pattern therapy drew upon the ideas and work of ideas of neurophysiologist Temple Fay, former head of the Department of Neurosurgery at Temple University School of Medicine and president of the Philadelphia Neurological Society. In 1960, Doman and Delacato published an article in the \"Journal of the American Medical Association\" (\"JAMA\") detailing pattern therapy. The methodology of their study was later criticized.\n\nThe philosophy of the Institutes consists of several interrelated beliefs: that every child has genius potential, stimulation is the key to unlocking a child's potential, teaching should commence at birth, the younger the child, the easier the learning process, children naturally love to learn, parents are their child's best teacher, teaching and learning should be joyous and teaching and learning should never involve testing. This philosophy follows very closely to the Japanese Suzuki method for violin, which is also taught at the institute in addition to the Japanese language itself. The Institutes consider brain damage, intellectual impairment, \"mental deficiency\", cerebral palsy, epilepsy, autism, athetosis, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, \"developmental delay\", and Down syndrome as conditions encompassing \"brain injury\", the term favored by IAHP. According to a 2007 WPVI television news report, IAHP uses the word \"hurt\" to describe the children they see \"with all kinds of brain injuries and conditions, including cerebral palsy, mental retardation, epilepsy, Down's syndrome, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, and autism\". Glenn Doman described his own personal philosophy for treating patients as stemming from his WWII veteran officer motto: \"Leave no injured behind.\"\n\nIAHP’s program begins with a five-day seminar for the parents of \"brain injured\" children, because the program is carried out by parents at their homes. Following the seminar, IAHP conducts an initial evaluation of the child.\n\nThe program described in the 1960 \"JAMA\" paper (Doman, et al.) for \"brain-injured\" children included:\n\n\nThe IAHP holds that brain injury at a given level of neurological development prevents or slows further progress.\n\nOther therapies utilized by IAHP include eye exercises for children who have an eye that converges more than the other when looking at an object in the distance and those who have one eye that diverges more than the other when an object is moved slowly toward the bridge of the nose. IAHP also recommends stimulating the eyes of children with amblyopia by flashing a light on and off. For children with poor hearing, IAHP recommends auditory stimulation with loud noises, which may be pre-recorded. Brain-injured children may also be taught to identify by touch alone various objects placed in a bag.\n\nIAHP recommends dietary restrictions, including reduced fluid intake for brain-injured children in an attempt to prevent \"the possible overaccumulation of cerebrospinal fluid\". Alongside fluid restriction, IAHP recommends a diet low in salt, sweets, and other \"thirst provoking\" foods.\n\nThe Institutes model of childhood development has been criticized in the scientific community.\n\nAccording to the American Academy of Pediatrics, patterning treatment is based on an oversimplified theory of brain development and its effectiveness is not supported by evidence-based medicine, making its use unwarranted. The American Academy of Pediatrics Committee on Children With Disabilities issued warnings regarding patterning, one of the IAHP's therapies for brain injured children, as early as 1968 and repeated in 1982. Their latest cautionary policy statement was in 1999, which was reaffirmed in 2010 states:\nThis treatment is based on an outmoded and oversimplified theory of brain development. Current information does not support the claims of proponents that this treatment is efficacious, and its use continues to be unwarranted... [T]he demands and expectations placed on families are so great that in some cases their financial resources may be depleted substantially and parental and sibling relationships could be stressed.\nSome of the text in the position statement from the AAP, however, may differ somewhat from the medical literature and research that has surfaced since their most recent reaffirmation in 2010, as described below. The statement reads, \"some of the cases dramatically publicized by the Institutes have been children with traumatic brain damage or postencephalitis, who may make substantial gains without any special treatment\". However, recent studies suggest that without systematic medical and physiotherapeutic support (special treatment) dystonia leads to deterioration of “the handicap”, as opposed to \"significant gains\". Modern research and innovation is ongoing today that focuses on offsetting the secondary progressive degenerative diseases that follow from a neglect of special treatment for children with a habitual sedentary lifestyle (declines in function into adulthood attributed to weakness, spasticity and orthopaedic abnormalities, as well as chronic pain, fatigue, obesity, premature sarcoepenia, cardiometabolic disease, fragility and/or early mortality). These include not only improved practices of early intervention, but also ongoing special exercise and physical activity recommendations, various therapies to trigger more recently discovered phenomena as neuroplasticity and neurogenesis\n\nThe AAP statement regarding postencephalitis also conflicts in that patients with symptoms following the reduction of inflammation of the brain is considered postencephalitic parkinsonism, a disease that triggers degeneration of the nerve cells in the substantia nigra, leading to clinical parkinsonism, an incurable disease still today. While certain standard drugs and therapies may help delay the progression of the disease, such treatment is typically only considered \"delays of progression\", not gains.\n\nThe AAP statement, while a statement opposed to patterning without further evidence, is in fact in agreement with The Institutes in the manner at which the patients make improvements, stating that these improvements are due to \"the basis of growth and development\" (according to the Institutes the \"brain grows with use\"), \"the intensive practice of certain isolated skills\" and \"the nonspecific effects of intensive stimulation\". And the AAP considers this method to \"differ substantially from other groups treating developmental problems\". In their summary, the AAP does acknowledge \"improvement observed in patients undergoing this method of treatment\" but considers said observations as \"poorly documented claims for cure\" and thus \"an unproven technique\".\n\nIn addition to the American Academy of Pediatrics, a number of other organizations have issued cautionary statements about claims for efficacy of this therapy. These include the executive committee of the American Academy for Cerebral Palsy, the United Cerebral Palsy Association of Texas, the Canadian Association for Retarded Children the executive board of the American Academy of Neurology, and the American Academy of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation.\nHornby et al. call R.A. Cummins 1988 book \"The Neurologically Impaired-child: Doman-Delacato Techniques Reappraised\" (Croom Helm, ), \"The most comprehensive analysis of the rationale and effectiveness of the Doman-Delacato programme to date\" and state Cummins uses neuroanatomy and neurophysiology to demonstrate that there is no sound scientific basis for the techniques used by the IAHP and concludes any benefit is likely due to increased activity and attention. Hornby et al. conclude, \"It is now clear that the only results supporting the effectiveness of the programme come from a handful of early, poorly controlled studies.\" Kavale and Mostert and others also identified serious problems with the early research on the IAHP program. An analysis of higher quality studies found that students not receiving the treatment had better outcomes than those who were treated by the IAHP.\n\nA 15 patient 2012 Norwegian cost analysis of an unproven intensive training treatment for brain damage that included 11 patients treated by IAHP found the treatment regimen not cost effective. The authors expressed doubt that the treatments could achieve adequate benefits to be cost effective and concluded that health care services should only fund these treatments for clinical trials. A 2013 study found the claims of superior results of treatment by the IAHP were not substantiated.\n\nA 2006 retrospective study of 21 children by the IAHP and others of children with cortical visual impairment found significant improvement after use of the program the study had no control group. Norum et al. stated regarding this study, \"...any proof of effectiveness cannot be obtained from a non-randomized study\".\n\nDoctors Martha Farrell Erickson and Karen Marie Kurz-Riemer wrote that IAHP \"capitalized on the desires of members of the 'baby boom' generation to maximize their children's intellectual potential\" and \"encouraged parents to push their infants to develop maximum brain power\". But most contemporary child development experts \"described many aspects of the program as useless and perhaps even harmful\". Kathleen Quill concluded that \"professionals\" have nothing to learn from pattern therapy. Pavone and Ruggieri have written that pattern therapy does not have an important role in treatment. Neurologist Steven Novella has characterized pattern therapy as being based on a discarded theory and a \"false cure\". He also wrote that IAHP's unsubstantiated claims can cause both financial and emotional damage. While detailing criticism of pattern therapy, Robards also wrote that the therapy caused pediatricians and therapists to recognize that early intervention programs are necessary.\n\nMuch of the work at The Institutes follows from Dr. Temple Fay who believed in recapitulation theory, which posits that the infant brain evolves through chronological stages of development similar to first a fish, a reptile, a mammal and finally a human. This theory can be encapsulated as \"ontogeny recapitulates phylogeny\". Recapitulation theory has been largely discredited in biology.\n\nThe American Academy of Pediatrics and other organizations have criticized the IAHP's claims of effectiveness, theoretical basis and the demands placed on parents by IAHP programs. Early studies originating from IAHP appeared to show some value of their program but were later criticized as significantly flawed. Kenneth Kavale and Mark Mostert have written that later studies they believe to have better design and more objectivity have shown pattern therapy \"to be practically without merit\".\n\nIn their book \"Controversial Issues in Special Education\", Garry Hornby, Jean Howard and Mary Atkinson state the program also includes \"gagging\" in which the child breathes into a plastic bag until gasping for breath. This is based on the belief that it will cause maximum use of the lungs and thus maximize oxygen circulation to the brain. The book concludes that pattern therapy is ineffective and potentially damaging to the functioning of families.\n\nThe IAHP has asserted in the past that it was willing and interested in participating in controlled scientific studies. Such studies require a control group, in that half the patients receive the treatment and the other half receive placebo treatment over time. A control group in this manner, where children are not being treated, was in direct opposition to Glenn Doman's personal philosophy: \"leave no injured behind\". Additionally, since Doman taught that \"time is the enemy of the brain-injured child\" (in that each day they are not getting better, they are getting worse), the months or years that the control group would not be treated, he would be doing \"harm\" in participation. According to his philosophy, this would be in conflict with the Hippocratic oath, namely first do no harm. The IAHP then instructed parents of children in their program not to take part in any independent studies designed to evaluate the program's effectiveness. The IAHP withdrew its agreement to participate in a \"carefully designed study supported by federal and private agencies\" when the study was in its final planning stages. According to Herman Spitz, \"The IAHP no longer appears to be interested in a scientific evaluation of their techniques; they have grown large, wealthy, and independent, and their staff is satisfied to provide case histories and propaganda tracts in support of their claims.\" Terrence M. Hines then stated that they \"have shown very little interest in providing empirical support for their methods\".\n\nThe Institutes receive funding from a variety of sources, some of which include patient care/therapy, book sales, events, courses, as well as private/public funders and foundations. Their public list of contributors is diverse: Ametek Foundation, Arcadia Foundation, Mrs. Elizabeth G. Bain, Five B Family Foundation, Helen D. G. Beatty Trust, Bell & Howell, Bethlehem Steel Foundation, Boeing, Vertol Good Neighbor Fund, Brith Sholom Foundation, Fred J. Brunner Foundation, Louis N. Cassett Foundation, Sol Cohn Foundation, Connelly Foundation, Crane Fund, Mr. & Mrs. Glenn Doman, Downs Foundation, DuPont, 88th Infantry, Division Association, Charles Robert Evenson Foundation, Samuel Fels Fund, Federal Express, Freeman Foundation, French Benevolent Society, General Electric Employees Community Service Fund, Given Foundation, Seymour & Doris, Greenberg Foundation, Philip S. Harper Foundation, Heinz Foundation, Hoyt Foundation, Hutton Trust, Ite Foundation, Christian Johnson Endowment Fund, Ken Foundation, Kerby Foundation, DJ Kernott Memorial Fund, William A. Klopman Foundation, Kirchner, Moore & Co., Leeds & Northrup Foundation, Lewt Foundation, Lil Maur Foundation, Lions Club, John McShain Charities, Mr. & Mrs. Michael Maltzoff, Hale Matthews Foundation, Charles E. Merrill Trust, Montgomery County Federation of Women’s Clubs, Morgan Foundation, Henry & Lucy Moses Fund, Inc., O’Keefe Family Foundation, Inc., Order of the Golden Chain, Ms. Victoria Perez, Pew Memorial Trust, Mr. & Mrs. Humberto Portillo, T. Rowe Price Associates, Inc., Renee & Ted’s Big Heart Foundation, Republic Steel Corporation, Mr. & Mrs. Javier Romero, Damon Runyon Memorial Fund, Scholler Foundation, Mary E. Smith Foundation, Ethel Sergeant Clark Smith Foundation, Sony Corporation of America Foundation, Union Central Insurance Co. Foundation, United Airlines Foundation, United Steelworkers of America, Tasty Baking Foundation, The Jett Travolta Foundation, Mrs. Miriam Van Gelderen, Vollmer Foundation, Wilkie Brothers Foundation, Wiremold Foundation, Henrietta Tower Wurts Memorial, Youth Development Fund, E. Matilda Zeigler Foundation \"and others\".\n"}
{"id": "14778298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14778298", "title": "Tribal College Librarians Institute", "text": "Tribal College Librarians Institute\n\nThe Tribal College Librarians Institute (TCLI) is a week-long professional development experience for tribal college librarians from all over the United States and Canada, normally held in Bozeman, Montana.\n\nThe groundwork for TCLI was formed in 1989 when Kathy Kaya, a recently retired Montana State University – Bozeman reference librarian, had a conversation with tribal librarians at Salish Kootenai College about the lack of professional development opportunities for them in Montana. Kathy turned words into action and worked with the Montana State University Libraries and the Montana State University Department of Native American Studies to create TCLI. The first Institute was held in 1990 at Montana State University in Bozeman and was attended by librarians from every tribal college in Montana.\n\nIn the Institute’s over 2 decade history, TCLI has grown from a three to a five-day institute and is currently open to all tribal college librarians, tribal college library staff, and any librarians whose mandate it is to serve tribal college students. Funding for TCLI is provided by MSU Libraries and supplemented with grants from private and government institutions. The bulk of the budget is spent on providing travel funds to participants. To date, the Institute has been able to offer limited travel funds to all those requesting assistance. While the majority of participants are from the US, librarians from New Zealand and Canada have also attended. In all there have been approximately 200 different participants from 60 institutions and a total of nearly 500 participants overall.\n\nThe Institute has offered sessions on information literacy, grant writing, collection development, Building Library Policies, digitization, preservation, Web 2.0, government information, database training and a host of other subject areas and topics. In addition to the library related topics, the Institute attempts to include sessions on cultural topics as well. In recent years, there have been sessions on the American Indian Movement, Navajo Code Talkers and Ho-Chunk ethnobotany.\n\nTCLI is primarily held in Bozeman, Montana: however funding was received from the National Agricultural Library in 2001 and from the National Museum of the American Indian in 2006 to hold the Institute in Washington, D.C. TCLI 2008 was held June 9–13 in Bozeman, Montana on the Montana State University campus. The cultural theme for 2008 focused on native languages and coincided with the United Nations declaration of 2008 as the International Year of Languages.\n\nIn 2007, TCLI was attended by 38 participants from 27 institutions, including: \n\n"}
{"id": "35602332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35602332", "title": "Twig World", "text": "Twig World\n\nTwig World Limited is a digital media company that offers education content to schools via subscription websites. The company also offers offline access to its content for parts of the world with poor Internet connectivity.\n\nThe majority of Twig World content is video-based, including thousands of three-minute films. These are accompanied by learning materials for students and teachers.\n\nTwig films are created to cover curriculum content using documentary footage from major archives (including the BBC Motion Gallery, NASA, Science Photo Library, and Getty Images among others) as well as self-produced graphics and animations.\n\nTwig first launched its digital content at the BETT show in January 2011. Initially 250 films were available, covering aspects of Chemistry, Biology, Physics and Earth Science. The films were around 3 minutes long and aimed at students aged between 10 and 16.\n\nThere are now over 2,500 3-minute films available in science, geography and maths. Each film comes with support learning materials including transcripts, quizzes and downloadable images.\n\nPrior to Twig’s public launch in January 2011, the company was known as LL Online. LL Online worked in conjunction with Learning Teaching Scotland. To date, Twig World has continued to work with Learning Teaching Scotland (now renamed Education Scotland), and renewed its contract to supply the resource as part of Glow (Scottish Schools National Intranet) for a further three years in December 2011. In 2015 this contract was renewed by Education Scotland for one year with the option for a further one-year extension. This contract with Education Scotland is set to end in July 2017.\n\nIn January 2016, Imperial College London announced a £3.5 million Series B investment into Twig World representing the first major Series B investment by a European university into an Edtech start-up.\n\nTwig World has two UK offices, a digital production facility in Glasgow and a commercial office in London.\n\nTwig’s range of resources covers maths, science and geography totaling over 2,500 films, which range from 1 to 7 minutes in length. They are made for teachers and pupils at Key Stage 1 Key Stage 2, Key Stage 3 and GCSE levels and their curriculum equivalents around the world.\n\nThe majority of Twig World's films can be divided into “core” and “context” films. “Core” films are focused on key curriculum learning points, whilst “context” films cover real-life applications and extensions of the core learning points, as well as aspects of science history. Twig World has also created a full library of \"glossary\" films, covering key scientific terms, which are 1-minute long.\n\nThe films are produced in Twig World’s production facility in Glasgow, using archive footage from a range of sources, including the BBC Motion Gallery, Getty Images, NASA, CBS, Science Photo Library and the US National Archives. Films are scripted to make them curriculum and age relevant, and are produced in conjunction with content-relevant academics and educators. Animations, graphics and text are produced and incorporated into the films during post-production after which, voice-overs are added. Voiceover and graphics, as distinct tracks, are easily re-voiced, allowing for re-versioning into other languages.\n\nAll films are accompanied by a set of learning materials. These include transcripts of the films, key learning points, photographic and diagrammatic resources, and handouts for pupils that include detailed notes on the topic, as well as quizzes and extension questions. Learning materials vary with different products and subject areas.\n\nThe secondary resources from Twig World, called Twig, are available via the website. Through username and password access, schools and pupils can stream film content from the site as well as access and download learning materials.\n\nTwig's original product was a package entitled Twig Science. It is a subscription package that offers access for students and teachers to Twig's range of science films and accompanying learning materials.\n\nFollowing Twig Science in 2011, Twig released a package of geography content focusing on Earth Science and Human Geography.\n\nIn September 2012 Twig World launched an upgraded product, Twig. New content was added to support teaching and learning in Maths and Geography, relating curriculum content to real-world events and stories. An additional 500 short 90-second films were also added defining key scientific terms in the Science Glossary.\n\nIn September 2013 an additional 81 sets of films and learning materials were produced and made available on the Twig World website.\n\nThe primary resources from Twig World are known under the brand Tigtag. This content is accessible via the website www.tigtagworld.com. These resources are also aimed at school use, with film streaming, lesson plans, activity suggestions and interactive features available online.\n\nTigtag Science was Twig World's launch product for primary and elementary schools, designed to support teaching of KS2 science and its global equivalents. This content supports schools through a comprehensive approach to Science that contains i. Science background for teachers ii. lesson planning ideas and iii. classroom multimedia content.\n\nLaunched in 2014, People and Places added a new geography module for Tigtag and includes the same range of films and learning materials to help support the teaching of geography in the classroom.\n\nDesigned specifically for students aged 4–7, Tigtag Junior (www.tigtagjunior.com) is Twig World's latest addition to the Tigtag brand. For the first time Tigtag Junior, as well as including the films and lesson materials associated with Tigtag, contains interactive games and puzzles for the classroom.\n\nIn 2014, Twig World, through their Primary resource Tigtag, partnered with Imperial College London to create Reach Out CPD, an online professional development resource to support Primary School teachers with Science. Since launching in late 2014, Reach Out CPD has been adopted by over 5,000 schools across the UK.\n\nAn evaluation of GlowScience was carried out by the SCRE Centre and the School of Education at the University of Glasgow, with their final report being released in April 2011. The evaluation was commissioned by Learning Teaching Scotland and was conducted between October 2010 and February 2011, with part of its remit being to ascertain the extent to which GlowScience resources were supporting teachers and helping to engage pupils.\n\nIn the report, GlowScience resources “were deemed to be of excellent quality and of a high standard, trustworthy, suitably tailored for children and young people, and highly effective teaching and learning resources”.\n\nResearch carried by Dr Don Passey, from Lancaster University’s Department of Educational Research in 2013, showed that Twig films make Maths and Science lessons more memorable in the longer term. Dr Passey’s research set out to explore some of the issues around learning science in relation to shorter and longer term learning. He concluded that there were strong indications that:\n\nVarious reviews of Twig World resources have been published by educational press and online media. This includes reviews by practising teachers as well as educational experts, from publications such as the TES and Teach Primary.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nTwig provides its digital content to schools in the UK through an online subscription service, offered directly to schools and local authorities.\n\nIn late 2011, Twig World announced a partnership deal with Carolina Biological, making Twig World's products available to more than 180,000 teachers and 15,000 schools in the USA. This was followed in early 2012 by the announcement of a partnership deal with Benesse Corporation of Japan, with films in Japanese language being made available to students from April 2012.\n\nIn 2012, Twig partnered with Santillana to distribute its products in institutions across Spain and Latin America. Santillana is the largest educational distributor in these areas with over 40,000 educational establishments and a 30% market share in Spain, Peru, Argentina, Chile and Colombia.\n\nTwig World also distributes its content directly to schools in Australia and South Africa through its online subscription service. In mid-2012, Twig World partnered with Doosan education publishers to distribute Twig in Korea through their home learning.\n\nSince early 2013, Twig World has worked with Abril Educacao to distribute materials to schools and sistemas in Brazil.\n"}
{"id": "7961383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7961383", "title": "University of Panama", "text": "University of Panama\n\nThe University of Panama () was founded on October 7, 1935, with a student body of 175 in the fields of Education, Commerce, Natural Sciences, Pharmacy, Pre-Engineering and Law. , it maintains a student body of 74,059 distributed in 228 buildings around the country.\n\nThe University of Panama was founded under the administration of the President of the Republic, Dr. Harmodio Arias Madrid. Its founder and first President was the distinguished citizen Dr. Octavio Méndez Pereira.\nThe University of Panama is a state institution of superior, independent education, inspired by the highest civic, moral, and ethical values.\n\nThe University of Panama was created by presidential decree on May 29, 1935. However, it began operations on October 7 of the same year in one of the wings of the Instituto Nacional (National Institute). Later on, under the administration of Enrique A. Jiménez, the government purchased around 60 hectares of land in the neighborhood of El Cangrejo, destined to be the future University's main campus.\n\nThe construction work began in January, 1948, under the supervision of the Engineer Alberto De Saint Malo, who was the Dean of the Engineering and Architecture Faculty at the time. The first four buildings to be constructed were those that would be home to Humanities, Engineering and Architecture, Science Laboratories, and Administration and Library. Classes in the new buildings began on May 29, 1950. However, the campus was officially inaugurated on November 1, 1953, the same year of the Republic's 50th Anniversary of Independence. In the 1950s, the construction work continued and 11 additional buildings were raised, some of which would hold the Biochemistry Center, and the Faculties of Pharmacy, and Public Administration and Commerce. In the following decade, 15 more buildings were constructed, among of which figure the Odontology and Law Faculties, and the Experimental Center for Agricultural Research in Tocumen.\n\nBetween 1970 and 1980, the buildings that were destined for Biology, Architecture, Engineering, Humanities (other), and those destined for the Simón Bolivar Library and for the Laboratory of Specialized Analysis, among others, were finished. At the end of 1979, the University of Panama received the facilities of the Rainbow City High School in Colón, where the first of the University's Regional Centers would begin operations. In the following decade, the Regional Centers for the provinces of Veraguas, Chiriquí and Coclé, and for the region of Azuero were built, including an Agricultural Sciences Faculty in Chiriquí.\n\nIn the 1990s, the Regional Center for Panamá Oeste (Western Panama) and four buildings destined for research were constructed. At the end of the decade, in 1999 to be more specific, the ARI (Interoceanic Regional Authority) transferred the buildings of the former Curundu Junior High School to the University of Panama. This complex would later hold the Harmodio Arias Madrid Campus. Other facilities transferred were the ones later used for the Veterinary Hospital, in Corozal. Also during this time, the University expanded its number of buildings by adding 19 more, thanks to the acquisition of adjacent buildings and to the construction of the Regional Center in Bocas del Toro, the extensions of Chepo and Darién, and the Popular Universities of Azuero and Coclé, today known as Universidades del Trabajo y La Tercera Edad (Universities of Labor and Elders).\n\nSeveral international research agreements and personnel exchanges have been made by government agencies with the institution. Professors in areas of science and technology, medical health, economics and law have been invited to give keynotes and also teach in other campuses around the world. The University of Panama has also sent representatives to several international congresses and meetings such as Women and Gender, World Economic Forum, environmental congresses, biological research meetings, statistics congresses and many other disciplines.\n\n"}
{"id": "38695704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38695704", "title": "Willie Anku", "text": "Willie Anku\n\nWilliam Oscar \"Willie\" Anku (25 July 1949 – 1 February 2010) was a Ghanaian music theorist, ethnomusicologist, composer, and performer. His work combined Western set theory with computer programming and experience in working with performers of various West African musical traditions to create a comprehensive theory of African rhythm. He was \"unique among Africa-based music theorists in attracting the attention of the US-based Society for Music Theory,\" being invited to give plenary lectures and receiving tributes from prominent US-based theorists.\n\nAnku rejected the relevance of simple concepts of polymeter in understanding West African music.\n\nHe is noted for attempting to create a more natural, but non-indigenous system of music notation to the study of African music. Anku's circular notation shows the various \"combinatoric aspects of [a] pattern relative to different metrical positions, based on how the rhythmic pattern is aligned with [a] regulative metric pattern.\"\n\nBode Omojola lists Anku among five contemporary scholars most influencing ideas of African Rhythm. His work was cited as influential on the Godfried T. Toussaint's general geometric theory of musical timelines.\n\nAgawu described his approach to West-African music theory as \"structural set analysis,\" the title of two of his short books. He defended the analytical approach to African music in a 2007 interview on Ghanaian MetroTV.\n\nIn addition to its impact on understanding African music, Anku's theories have been cited in the study of György Ligeti.\n\nWillie Anku came from Gbadzeme in the Avatime Traditional Area of the Volta Region of Ghana.\n\nHe received his Master of Music Education from the University of Montana, Missoula in 1976; MA and PhD in Ethnomusicology from the University of Pittsburgh in 1986 and 1988 respectively. He was head of the School of Performing Arts at the University of Ghana, Legon until just prior to his death.\n\nProfessor Anku was involved in a motor accident on January 20, 2010 and died 2 weeks later at the Korle Bu Teaching Hospital. He is survived by his wife, Madam Eva Ebeli, and three children.\n"}
