{"id": "1776250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1776250", "title": "Akhil Amar", "text": "Akhil Amar\n\nAkhil Reed Amar (born September 6, 1958) is an American legal scholar, an expert on constitutional law and criminal procedure. Formerly the Southmayd Professor of Law at Yale Law School, he was named Sterling Professor of Law in 2008 and Adjunct Professor of Law at Columbia Law School in 2016. A \"Legal Affairs\" poll placed Amar among the top 20 contemporary US legal thinkers.\n\nAmar was born in Ann Arbor, Michigan, where his parents were medical students from India studying at the University of Michigan. His parents later became U.S. citizens. He graduated from Las Lomas High School in Walnut Creek, California in 1976. His brother, Vikram Amar, is dean of the University of Illinois College of Law.\n\nAmar is a \"summa cum laude\" graduate of Yale College (B.A., 1980) and a graduate of the Yale Law School (J.D. 1984), where he was an editor of the \"Yale Law Journal\". Amar clerked for future U.S. Supreme Court Justice Stephen Breyer when he was a judge on the First Circuit Court of Appeals.\n\nAmar is the author of numerous publications and books, most recently \"The Constitution Today: Timeless Lessons for the Issues of our Era\". The Supreme Court has cited his work in over three dozen cases.\n\nAmar was a consultant to the television show \"The West Wing\", on which the character Josh Lyman refers to him in an episode in Season Five. His course on constitutional law is one of the most popular undergraduate offerings at Yale College.\n\nAmar has repeatedly served as a Visiting Professor of Law at Pepperdine School of Law and at Columbia Law School and was recently a visiting professor at University of Pennsylvania Law School. He has also lectured for One Day University. He was elected a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2007.\n\nIn 2008, U.S. presidential candidate Mike Gravel said that he would name Amar to the Supreme Court if elected President.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1096713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1096713", "title": "Apella", "text": "Apella\n\nThe Apella () was the popular deliberative assembly in the Ancient Greek city-state of Sparta, corresponding to the \"ecclesia\" in most other Greek states. Every Spartan male full citizen who had completed his thirtieth year was entitled to attend the meetings, which, according to Lycurgus ordinance, must be held at the time of each full moon within the boundaries of Sparta.\n\nThe word is derived from the Doric word \"apella\" (), which originally meant wall, enclosure of stones, and later assembly of people within the limits of the square. It is derived from the Ancient Greek word \"pélla\" (), \"stone\", which appears in some toponyms in Greece like Pella () and Pallini (). The explanation is given by Hesychius: \"apellai\" (), \"sekoi\" ( \"folds\"), \"ecclesiai\" (: popular assemblies). The festival \"apellai\" was surely dedicated to the god Apollo (Doric form: ) and it was spread by the Dorians in central-Greece, as it is proved by the use of the month \"Apellaios\" (). \n\nThe meetings had in all probability taken place originally in the Agora, but were later transferred to the neighbouring building known as the Skias. According to Plutarch, a Great Rhetra was given by Pythia to Lycurgus. The old aristocratic council, was substituted by the gerousia (thirty elders including the two kings). The meetings of the \"apella\" should take place from time to time, and the citizens should have the power to debate and take the decisions. This right of the citizens was very soon limited. The kings Theopompus and Polydorus, probably during the 7th century BC, added to the \"rhetra\" that the kings and the elders (gerousia) could set aside any \"crooked\" decision of the people.\n\nThe presiding officers were at first the kings, but in historical times the ephors, and the voting was conducted by assessing the loudness of shouting in the crowd; if the president was doubtful as to the majority of voices, a division was taken and the votes were counted. Vote by shouting could be seen as the first type of range voting.\n\nThe apella simply accepted or rejected the proposals submitted to it. In later times, too, the actual debate was almost, if not wholly, confined to the kings, elders, ephors and perhaps the other magistrates. The apella voted on peace and war, treaties and foreign policy in general: it decided which of the kings should conduct a campaign and settled questions of disputed succession to the throne: it elected elders, ephors and other magistrates, emancipated helots and perhaps voted on legal proposals.\n\nThere is a single reference to a \"small assembly\" () at Sparta, but nothing is known as to its nature or competence. The term \"apella\" does not occur in extant Spartan inscriptions, though two decrees of Gythium belonging to the Roman period refer to the μεγάλαι ἀπέλλαι.\n\nThe apella was responsible for electing men to the gerousia for life. Candidates were selected from the aristocrats and presented before the apella. The candidate who received the loudest applause became a member of the gerousia.\n\nThe apella also elected the five ephors annually. Ephors presided over meetings of the gerousia and the apella. They could not run for re-election.\n\nThe gerousia presented motions before the apella. The apella then voted on the motions. However, unlike the ecclesia in Athens, the apella did not debate; it merely approved or disapproved of measures. Moreover, the gerousia always had the power to veto the decision of the apella.\n\n\nAs listed in :\n"}
{"id": "2586359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2586359", "title": "Attorney General of Mexico", "text": "Attorney General of Mexico\n\nThe Attorney General of Mexico () (Attorney General of the Republic) is the head of the Attorney General's Office (\"Procuraduría General de la República, PGR\") and the Federal Public Ministry (\"Ministerio Público de la Federación\"), an institution belonging to the Federal Government's executive branch that is responsible for the investigation and prosecution of federal crimes. The office is governed mainly by the Constitution of Mexico and the Organic Law of the Attorney General's Office (\"Ley Orgánica de la Procuraduría General de la República\"). The Attorney General is a member of the President's Cabinet.\n\nThe head of the PGR, Raúl Cervantes Andrade, resigned after claiming his name and \"ambition\" were being used politically, delaying implementation of a truly independent Attorney General () by amended Article 102 of the Constitution; he had succeeded Arely Gómez González, both lawyers and members of the Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI).\n\nThe Attorney General's Office is organized into several subordinate entities, including five Under-Attorney General Offices (Legal and International Affairs, Regional Control and Criminal Procedures, Specialized in Organized Crime, Specialized in Federal Crimes, Human Rights and Community Services, Prosecutor Offices such as the Specialized in Electoral Crimes, the Federal Investigations Agency, and the National Center for Planning, Analysis and Information for Combating Crime (\"Centro Nacional de Planeación, Análisis e Información para el Combate a la Delincuencia, CENAPI\").\n\n\nMany fixed-wing aircraft of the PGR were obtained after having been confiscated, so their air fleet consists of various types, of which very few are appropriate to the tasks of combatting drug trafficking. Its current fleet consists of Commander Gulfstream jets 840, 900, 980 to 1000, Learjet, Citation I and II, and Grumman. They also operate several types of Cessna and Beechcraft King Air aircraft.\n\nDuring the administration of President Fox, most of the PGR's air fleet - just over 100 units - was abandoned because required maintenance had not been performed. In November 2007, during the administration of President Felipe Calderon, the PGR transferred 58 helicopters to the Ministry of National Defense (SEDENA) to be fixed and readied to work in the eradication of illegal drug crops. In 2008, the PGR submitted an official request to the Ministry of Finance to purchase 30 new Eurocopter helicopters for surveillance and interception.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5859485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5859485", "title": "Automated Logic Corporation", "text": "Automated Logic Corporation\n\nAutomated Logic Corporation is located in Kennesaw, Georgia, United States and manufactures building automation systems.\n\nSeveral of its technological innovations include: the WebCTRL® building automation system; Environmental Index™ tool; Thermographic Color Floor Plans; Time-lapse™ Graphics; Fault Detection and Diagnostics (FDD); EIKON, a uniquely powerful, universal programming tool; I/O Hardware including controllers and routers.\n\nWebCTRL is a BACnet native, Browser-based building automation system through which users can fully access their buildings' schedules, setpoints, trends, alarms, and other control functions from virtually any computer, anywhere in the world. Users can also control their buildings with WebCTRL from wireless devices such as a tablets and cell phones. WebCTRL supports multiple languages simultaneously and includes a powerful spreadsheet-based reporting tool. A native BACnet system, WebCTRL interfaces with LonWorks, Modbus and many other protocols to provide an integrated solution to building control needs. WebCTRL is certified by the BACnet Testing Laboratory as BACnet Advanced Workstation Software.\n\nAutomated Logic systems are installed in commercial office buildings, industrial plants, critical mission facilities, healthcare facilities, educational facilities, government complexes, hospitality/entertainment venues and retail locations worldwide.\n\nProducts are sold through an international network of dealers who design, engineer, install and support Automated Logic products. Automated Logic Corporation was acquired by the Carrier Corporation (parent: United Technologies Corporation.) in 2004.\n\nAs a founding member of the BACnet Manufacturers Association, Automated Logic was one of the first to offer products using the industry’s standard protocol – BACnet.\n\n"}
{"id": "5272112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5272112", "title": "Avodah", "text": "Avodah\n\nAvoda, or Avodah (), is a Hebrew word, literally meaning \"work, worship, and service\".\n\nIn a modern context, usually referring to business-type activities, it can also mean agricultural work and, more traditionally, serving God.\n\nIn its original, traditional sense, \"avodah\" was applied to sacrifices offered in the Temple in Jerusalem. The word was also used to describe the epitome of sacrificial rite, the complex and fraught main service of The High Priest on Yom Kippur (The Day of Atonement). Today it refers to a liturgical reenactment of the aforementioned ceremony which is recited during the Musaf Amidah of Yom Kippur.\n\nIn chassidism: Avodah generally refers to Divine service (or worship). For example, it's part of the Divine service to serve God with joy.\n\n\"eizohi \"Avodah\" shebelev? zu Teffilah.\" -translated as \"What is the service of the heart? That is teffilah, prayer.\" That is why in chassidism there is a great emphasis on prayer.\n\nAvodah is one of the two words that underlie the ideology of the Bnei Akiva movement. (The other is Torah).\n\nIn this ideological framework, the word was originally utilised in a strictly agricultural context. \"Avodah\" meant working on a kibbutz.\n\nIn more recent years, Bnei Akiva has had to redefine the terminology. Tens of thousands of its members currently live, or plan to live in an urban setting in Israel. Furthermore, it is generally perceived that the \"needs\" of Israel have developed somewhat since Bnei Akiva was founded. Draining malarial swamps and \"turning the desert green\" have assumed somewhat lower priorities than in earlier years. To give an example from exporting, Israel is now known for its high tech industries as much as for its Jaffa oranges.\n\nThe movement has therefore subtly redefined Avodah, to mean work that contributes towards the building up of the land of Israel.\n"}
{"id": "52342750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52342750", "title": "Bazeley's Case", "text": "Bazeley's Case\n\nBazeley's Case, 2 East P.C. 571 (Cr. Cas. Res. 1799), is an English criminal case that gave rise to Parliament creating the crime of embezzlement. Bazeley was a bank teller who took money from a depositor and applied it to pay a bill of Bazeley's own business. The court agreed with Bazeley's argument that the bank only had a right to possess or title to the note, not possession of it. Parliament responded by creating the crime of embezzlement, the fraudulent conversion of money or property that an employee receives for her employer. \n"}
{"id": "5507775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5507775", "title": "Carmona Decree", "text": "Carmona Decree\n\nThe Act Constituting the Government of Democratic Transition and National Unity () — known colloquially as the \"Carmona Decree\" or \"el carmonazo\"\n— was a document drawn up on 12 April 2002 the day following the Venezuelan coup attempt of 2002, which attempted to oust Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez.\n\nThis Act established a transitional government, dissolving the National Assembly and the Supreme Court and also suspending the Attorney General, Comptroller General, governors and mayors elected during Chávez's administration.\n\nWithin the Act, the basis for the formation of a transitional government is delineated, citing the Constitution of Venezuela. The Act principally cites Article 350 of the Constitution, which says the People of Venezuela shall disown any regime, legislation or authority that violates democratic values, principles and guarantees or encroaches upon human rights. It also alleges violations by the Chávez administration of Articles 43, 57, 58, 68, 136, 141, 145, 204, 211, 254, 270, 273, 279, 294, 295 and 328 of the Constitution, and it references the Democratic Charter of the Organization of American States and Chávez's supposed resignation the day before.\n\nRemembering the date of 11 April 2002 \"with profound indignation and national mourning,\" it accuses the government of Chávez of:\n\n\n\"The Act\" declares the formation of a democratic and national unity transition government, according to the following articles:\n\nArticle I\nDesignated Pedro Carmona Estanga President of Venezuela in charge of the Executive Branch.\n\nArticle II\nRe-established the country's name as \"República de Venezuela\".\n\nArticle III\nSuspended the National Assembly, with new elections to be held no later than December 2002.\n\nArticle IV\nCreated a 35-member advisory council to guide the interim president.\n\nArticle V\nNamed the President of Venezuela to coordinate the interim period.\n\nArticle VI\nEstablished that Presidential elections would occur in no later than 365 days, and the interim President may not be a candidate.\n\nArticle VII\nThe President of Venezuela and Cabinet will select the interim public officials at the national, state and local level.\n\nArticle VIII\nReorganized public offices to recuperate autonomy and independence, removing officials illegitimately named to their posts as members of the Supreme Court, Attorney General, Comptroller General, and members of the National Electoral Council. These positions would be filled as soon as possible with consultation of the Ministers and Advisory Council.\n\nArticle IX\nSuspended 49 decrees from the \"Ley Habilitante\" (Enabling Act).\n\nArticle X\nUpheld all other laws both internal and international, as long as they do not disagree with the present Act.\n\nArticle XI\nAll members of the transitional government will abandon their posts once their newly elected counterparts take charge.\n\nThe Act was the catalyst that allowed the Armed Forces to justify abandoning the newly formed government, returning Chávez to power on 13 April. After Chávez was re-instated as president, controversy regarding those that signed \"The Act\" remained.\n\nAccording to \"El Nacional\", among almost 400 signatures is the signature of María Corina Machado, a political activist and co-founder of \"Súmate\". She denies signing the decree itself, but rather a signature roll. Another notable signee is former Zulia Governor and former presidential candidate, Manuel Rosales, who says his participation was an honest mistake rather than a pre-planned coup like Chávez's.\n\nReferring to \"The Act\", Venezuelan historian and politician Jorge Olavarría said, \"what these fellows brought, and may people who hear pardon me but these things have to be said with the crudeness of the situation, what these fellows brought me [the Carmona decree draft] is a piece of shit, yes totally, if this is going to happen, you have to do these things well, but this was a big mess up, technically and politically ...\"\n\n"}
{"id": "33459085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33459085", "title": "Compulsory purchase in England and Wales", "text": "Compulsory purchase in England and Wales\n\nCompulsory purchase is the power to acquire rights over an estate in English land law, or to buy that estate outright, without the current owner's consent in return for compensation. In England and Wales, Parliament has granted several different kinds of compulsory purchase power, which are exercisable by various bodies in various situations. Such powers are \"for the public benefit\", but this expression is interpreted very broadly.\n\nAlthough land may be acquired by consent, and conduct which raises another party's reasonable expectations, these private methods of acquiring land are often insufficient for adequate public regulation. Building national infrastructure, such as railways, housing, and sewerage, as well as democratically determined planning rules, either by national or local government, typically requires compulsory purchase, because private owners might not give up land required for public works except at an extortionate price. Historically, compulsory purchases were carried out under the Inclosure Acts and their predecessors, where enclosure was frequently a method of expropriating people from common land for the benefit of barons and landlords. In the industrial revolution, most railways were built by private companies procuring compulsory purchase rights from private Acts of Parliament, though by the late 19th century, powers of compulsory purchase slowly became more transparent and used for general social welfare, as with the Public Health Act 1875, or the Housing of the Working Classes Act 1885. Compulsory purchase legislation was significantly extended during World War One for military use, and after the war for housing, as certain principles became standardised.\n\nToday, the Land Compensation Act 1961 section 5 generally requires that the owner of an interest in land (e.g. a freehold, leasehold or easement as in \"Re Ellenborough Park\") receives payment for the \"value of the land... if sold on an open market by a willing seller\". Compensation is often also available for losses to a home, or if one's business has to move. The Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 set conditions for a purchase to be made, and the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 regulates the conditions for granting a \"Compulsory Purchase Order\". Typically, either central government represented by a Secretary of State, or a local council will be interested in making a compulsory purchase. The authority of local councils for make purchases for specific reasons can be set out in specific legislation, such as the Highways Act 1980 to build roads when strictly necessary. However the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 section 226, which allows compulsory purchase to \"facilitate the carrying out of development, re-development or improvement\" for the area's economic, social, or environmental well being, must be confirmed by the Secretary of State, and similarly the Local Government Act 1972 section 121 requires the council seek approval from the government Minister, a time-consuming process which prevents compulsory purchase being carried out without co-ordination in central government.\n\n\nThe most general power originally appeared in the Leasehold Reform Act 1967. Under that Act, the Leasehold Reform Act 1987, and the Leasehold Reform, Housing and Urban Development Act 1992, private individuals who are leaseholders have the power in certain circumstances to compel their landlord to extend a lease or to sell the freehold at a valuation.\n\nRecompense, under compulsory purchase, is not necessarily a monetary payment of open market value (see \"James v United Kingdom\" [1986]), but in most cases a sum equivalent to a valuation made as if between a willing seller and a willing purchaser will fall due to the previous owner.\n\nUtility companies have statutory powers to, for example, erect electrical substations or lay sewers or water pipes on or through someone else's land. These powers are counterbalanced by corresponding rights for landowners to compel utility companies to remove cables, pipes or sewers in other circumstances (see for example section 185 of the Water Industry Act 1991).\n\nCompulsory purchase only applies to the extent that it is necessary for the purchaser's purposes. Thus, for example, a water authority does not need to buy the freehold in land in order to run a sewer through it. An easement will normally suffice, so in such cases the water authority may only acquire an easement through the use of compulsory purchase.\n\nIn most cases a Compulsory Purchase Order (CPO) is made by the purchasing authority or the Secretary of State. The CPO must unambiguously identify the land affected and set out the owners, where these are known. The order is then served on all owners and tenants with a tenancy with more than a month to run, or affixed to the land if some owners or tenants cannot be traced. A period of at least 21 days is allowed for objections. If there is a valid objection that is not withdrawn, an inquiry chaired by an inspector will take place. The inspector reports to the Secretary of State. If the Secretary of State confirms the CPO, then it becomes very difficult to challenge.\n\nOnce the CPO is confirmed, the purchasing authority must serve a Notice to Treat within three years, and a Notice of Entry within a further three years. It may take possession of the land not less than 14 days after serving the Notice of Entry. The Notice to Treat requires the land's owner to respond, and is usually the trigger for the land's owner to submit a claim for its value. If no claim is submitted within 21 days of the Notice to Treat, the acquirer can refer the matter to the Lands Tribunal. If the land's owner cannot be traced and does not respond to a Notice to Treat affixed to the land, then the purchasing authority must pay the compensation figure to the Court.\n\nThe Crichel Down principles oblige central and local government, when, having acquired an estate compulsorily, they find they no longer need it, to offer it in the first instance to the person from whom they acquired it at its market value. However, this only applies where the land has not materially changed in character, and does not withstand the principle that councils may not dispose of land \"for a consideration less than the best that can be obtained\" under the Local Government Act 1972, section 123. This means that where it is difficult to value land for some reason, the land may need to be sold by tender or auction.\n\nBecause of property's social importance, either for personal consumption and use or for mass production, compulsory purchase laws have met with human rights challenges. One concern is that since the 1980s privatisations, many compulsory purchase powers can be used for the benefit of private corporations whose incentives may diverge from the public interest. For example, the Water Resources Act 1991 continues to allow government bodies to order compulsory purchases of people's property, although profits go to the private shareholders of UK water companies. In \"R (Sainsbury's Supermarkets Ltd) v Wolverhampton CC\" the Supreme Court held that Wolverhampton City Council acted for an improper purpose when it took into account a promise by Tesco to redevelop another site, in determining whether to make a compulsory purchase order over a site possessed by Sainsbury's. Lord Walker stressed that \"powers of compulsory acquisition, especially in a \"private to private\" acquisition, amounts to a serious invasion of the current owner's proprietary rights.\" Nevertheless compulsory purchase orders have frequently been used to acquire land that is passed back to a private owner, including in \"Alliance Spring Ltd v First Secretary\" where homes in Islington were purchased to build the Emirates stadium for Arsenal Football Club. By contrast, in \"James v United Kingdom\" Gerald Grosvenor, 6th Duke of Westminster, the inherited owner of most of Mayfair and Belgravia, contended that leaseholders' right to buy had violated their right to property in ECHR Protocol 1, article 1. The European Court of Human Rights ruled that the Leasehold Reform Act 1967, which allowed tenants to purchase properties from their private landlords, was within a member state's margin of appreciation. It was competent for a member state to regulate property rights in the public interest.\n\nAnother issue of whether regulatory or planning decisions in general might breach property rights has not been important for the United Kingdom. In a divided case by the US Supreme Court called \"Lucas v South Carolina Coastal Council\" a majority held that if a regulation prevented a property owner developing land (in this case to preserve coastline beaches) compensation would have to be paid. This has not been followed in most of the rest of the Commonwealth, and in \"Grape Bay Ltd v Attorney General of Bermuda\" the Privy Council advised that a decision by a democratic legislature is better than a court to determine issues of social and economic policy in relation to property. Here, McDonald's attempted to sue Bermuda for passing legislation to prevent it opening a restaurant as a breach of \"property rights\" under the Bermudan constitution, which it said consisted in the expectation of being able to run a business and various contractual arrangements to that end. Lord Hoffmann held that there was no such violation of property, noting that the \"give and take of civil society frequently requires that the exercise of private rights should be restricted in the general public interest.\" The jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights, though not fully clear, indicates a similar approach.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8734383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8734383", "title": "Constitutional Court of Lithuania", "text": "Constitutional Court of Lithuania\n\nThe Constitutional Court of the Republic of Lithuania (in ) is a special court established by the Constitution of the Republic of Lithuania of 1992; it began the activities after the adoption of the Law on Constitutional Court of the Republic of Lithuania on February 3, 1993. Since its inception, the Court has been located in the city of Vilnius, Gediminas Avenue.\n\nThe main task of the court is judicial review. It may therefore declare the acts of the Seimas unconstitutional and thus render them ineffective. As such, it is somewhat similar to the Supreme Court of the United States. However, it differs from it and other supreme courts in that it is not part of the regular judicial system, but more a unique judicial branch. Most importantly, it does not serve as a regular court of appeals from lower courts or as a sort of “superappellate court” on any violation of national laws. \n\nIts jurisdiction is focused on constitutional issues, the integrity of the Constitution. Moreover, it adjudicates on the conformance of the acts of the Government of the Republic of Lithuania to the laws, compliance with the Constitution of international agreements, as well as their ratification, and takes a final decision on voting infringements.\n\nThe Court has played a substantial role in the development of the Lithuanian legal system, declaring a number of national laws unconstitutional. \nOn March 31, 2004, it issued a ruling acknowledging the breach of the oath of office by the President Rolandas Paksas. He was removed from office by Seimas following the impeachment on April 6, 2004; this has been the first successful case of impeachment of the head of state in the history of Europe. The ruling interpreted the Constitution as precluding a person, who was pleaded guilty for the breach of oath, from assuming any future position in public service, which requires taking an oath.\n\nThe Court comprises nine justices, elected by the Seimas, for a nine-year non-renewable term of office. Only Lithuanian citizens of an impeccable reputation, who are trained in law, and who have served for at least 10 years in the legal profession, or in an area of legal education are eligible for appointment. Usually, notable legal scholars and highly experienced judges qualify for the position. The candidates are nominated by the Chairman of the Seimas, the President of Lithuania and the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Lithuania, 3 persons each. The Seimas appoints the President of the Court from among the justices upon the nomination by the President of the state.\n\n1993–1996\n\n\n1996–1999\n\n\n1999–2002\n\n\n2002–2005\n\n\n2005-2008\n\n\n2008-2011\n\n\n2011-2014\n\n\n2014-2017\n\n\n2017-2020 (current)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2285313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2285313", "title": "Consumer Credit Act 1974", "text": "Consumer Credit Act 1974\n\nThe Consumer Credit Act 1974 (c 39) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom that significantly reformed the law relating to consumer credit within the United Kingdom.\n\nPrior to the Consumer Credit Act, legislation covering consumer credit was slapdash and focused on particular areas rather than consumer credit as a whole, such as moneylenders and hire-purchase agreements. Following the report of the Crowther Committee in 1971 it was decided that wide-ranging reform of consumer credit law was needed, and a bill to do this was introduced to Parliament. Despite its progress through Parliament being disrupted by a general election, the bill passed quickly through the legislative process thanks to support from both the government and the opposition, coming into law on 31 July 1974.\n\nThe Act introduces new protection for consumers and new regulation for bodies trading in consumer credit and related industries. Such traders must have full licenses from the Office of Fair Trading, which may be suspended or revoked in the event of irregularities. The Act also regulates what may be taken as security, limits the ways in which credit organisations can advertise and gives the county court the ability to intercede in the case of unfair or unjust credit agreements. It also gives additional rights to the debtor, including certain limited rights to cancel concluded agreements. The Act was amended by the Consumer Credit Act 2006.\n\nConsumer credit regulation was almost entirely ignored by both Parliament and the courts for over 800 years, with the judges and Members of Parliament taking the attitude that there was no reason to interfere with fairly concluded contracts. The first piece of legislation to deal with consumer credit was the Bills of Sale Act 1854, which required bills of sale to be registered. This allowed the courts to intervene for the first time, since an unregistered bill of sale was void and could not be claimed by creditors. This act was followed by the Bills of Sale Act 1878 and the Bills of Sale Act (1878) Amendment Act 1882, which provided limited protection for debtors. Outside of these acts, however, little was done between 1854 and 1900, and moneylenders used this to their advantage, sometimes abusively; the report of the House of Commons Select Committee on Money-Lending in 1898 included testimony from one moneylender who admitted he charged 3,000% interest, while another had worked under 34 different aliases to avoid having notoriety associated with his name.\n\nAs a result of this report the Moneylenders Act 1900 was passed, which required registration for moneylenders and allowed the courts to dissolve \"unfair\" moneylending agreements. This act had two main weaknesses, however; firstly, many of the debtors who would like to sue their moneylender to have the agreement cancelled were by definition poor, and could not afford legal representation. Secondly, the Act only focused on specific types of lenders; lending by a single moneylender was covered, lending by a bank was not. In 1927 a second Moneylenders Act was passed, which required licensing as well as registration and forbade moneylenders from employing agents, canvasses or sending out unsolicited advertisements. Unfortunately the 1900 and 1927 Acts also covered commercial transactions, and since people lending money in a commercial area were not excluded as banks were, a slight infraction could make a loan completely irrecoverable. This was partially solved with the passing of the Companies Act 1967, which allowed the Board of Trade to give individual moneylenders licenses saying that they were acting as banks, not moneylenders.\n\nAs a result of the restrictions on business caused by the Moneylenders Act 1927, the idea of hire-purchase developed. These were first regulated by the Hire-Purchase and Small Debt (Scotland) Act 1932, which only covered Scotland; England and Wales was first covered by the Hire-Purchase Act 1938, later amended by the Hire-Purchase Act 1954 and the Hire-Purchase Act 1964. The 1965 Act applied to all hire-purchase agreements worth less than £2,000 and when the hirer and buyer was not a corporation.\n\nIn 1965 the Crowther Committee was established to look at the state of consumer credit law in the United Kingdom. Chaired by Lord Crowther, the Committee began sitting in December that year and eventually extended their review to cover consumer credit generally rather than just the bills of sale and moneylending they had initially been concerned with, and their report was finally published in March 1971. The report discussed the economical, social and legal aspects of consumer credit, and concluded that the existing law was so confused and unsatisfactory that it was not worth amending. Instead it recommended the complete repeal of all existing legislation and its replacement with two new acts: a Lending and Security Act, which would regulate legitimate business transactions, and a Consumer Sale and Loan Act which would regulate consumer credit and establish a licensed system for its use.\n\nThe reaction to the report from consumer and business organisations was overwhelmingly positive, but the government initially did nothing, since the Department of Trade and Industry wanted time to work out the particular details of any Acts. Their hand was eventually forced by Baroness Phillips a year later, who initiated a debate in the House of Lords on the matter. The government's official statement was that they were willing to accept almost all the recommendations made about consumer credit, they did not wish to legislate on lending and securities. In February 1973 they created a Voluntary Code which they expected those lending to observe. The Code set out guidelines for loaning money to individuals and disclosing the cost of the loan.\n\nIn September 1973 the government issued a white paper titled \"Reform of the Law on Consumer Credit\" in which they indicated they were planning to implement almost all of the Crowther Committee's consumer credit recommendations. The only real differences were an increase in the limits for financial protection from £2,000 to £5,000 (due to the drop in value of money), and stronger protection for hirers under hire-purchase agreements.\n\nThe Act was first introduced to Parliament as the Consumer Credit Bill at the beginning of November 1973, and initially ran to 96 pages. It was given its second reading on 14 November, and was welcomed by both the government and opposition.By February 1974 it had passed through the Committee Stage, but its progress was cut short by a general election in the same month. Thanks to the support of the opposition to the original bill this did not make a significant impact, and the new administration immediately reintroduced the bill in the House of Lords. It was passed on 31 July 1974, and immediately received the Royal Assent. The final version of the act contained 193 sections and 5 schedules, much larger than the original 96 pages.\n\nThe Act is divided into 12 sections, and is \"designed to provide a comprehensive code regulating the consumer credit and consumer hire fgb and almost every aspect of a credit granting operation\".\n\nThe office of Director General of Fair Trading was created by the Fair Trading Act 1973, with the Director appointed by the government for a five-year term. Consumer credit was not originally part of his duties (although the scope of his role did contain some elements of consumer credit) and the Crowther Committee had recommended the creation of a separate Consumer Credit Commissioner, something included in the original bill. When the bill was resurrected after the February 1974 general election, however, it was decided that the duties should instead be given to the Office of Fair Trading, and for this purpose a separate division (the Division of Consumer Credit) was set up within the OFT.\n\nSection 1 of the Act gives the Director General of Fair Trading the duties of administering the licensing system set up by the Act, supervising the working and enforcement of the Act and any regulations made by it and, if appropriate, enforce the Act and regulations himself. The DGFT is also tasked with advising the government about social and commercial developments within the United Kingdom, and any actions taken to enforce the Act and its orders and regulations. Section 4 of the act requires him to disseminate any appropriate information and advice about consumer credit to the people of the United Kingdom. This allows him to educate the public about consumer credit, and was intended to be conducted through organisations such as the Citizens Advice Bureau. The Director's duties under this Act overlap slightly with those given by the Fair Trading Act, but are still an expansion over his original role. The Director General is tasked with issuing licenses, and under Section 35 of the Act, the Director is required to maintain a register containing all appropriate information related to licenses and applications for licenses. The register was created on 2 February 1976, and is kept at Chancery House in London. The Enterprise Act 2002 formally substituted the Office of Fair Trading for the Director General of Fair Trading for the purposes of this Act.\n\nPart II contains definitions for many types of agreements covered by the Act. There are three main types of agreement; regulated consumer credit agreements, regulated consumer hire agreements and partially regulated agreements.\n\nA regulated consumer credit agreement is defined as an agreement between two parties, one of whom (the debtor) is an individual, and the other of whom (the creditor) is \"any other person\", in which the creditor provides the debtor with credit not exceeding £5,000 (this figure was subsequently increased to £25,000 and under the Consumer Credit Act 2006 there is no upper limit). An exception to this definition is so-called \"exempt agreements\", which are agreements made where the creditor is a land improvement company, a charity, a friendly society, a trade union, an insurance company or \"a body corporate named or specifically referred to in any public general Act\". The definition of \"agreement\" is given as any discussion which produces a legal relationship; a contract. As such the decision of courts as to whether an agreement constituted an \"agreement\" under the Act rests with English contract law, and is not discussed within the Act. In many cases this is largely academic, however, since unless one party tries to contest the existence of a contract any agreement can proceed regardless of its validity under contract law.\n\n\"Individual\" is defined as including a partnership or other unincorporated body, but not corporations registered at Companies House or created by an Act of Parliament or Royal Charter, such as the BBC. The definition also excludes \"corporations sole\", such as certain government ministers and bishops. Under the Industrial and Provident Societies Act 1965, industrial and provident societies are considered corporate bodies and thus excluded from the Act, but friendly societies and trade unions are unincorporated and thus qualify. In contrast, however, the definition of \"person\" includes both individuals and incorporated bodies.\n\nA regulated consumer hire agreement is defined as an agreement between two bodies, one of whom (the hirer) is an individual, and the other of whom, (the owner) is a person, by which goods are loaned to the hirer for use without an option to purchase. The agreement must be \"capable of subsisting\" for longer than three months, not require the hirer to make payments of more than £5,000 total and not be an \"exempt agreement\". \"Goods\" are defined as chattels personal, with \"capable of subsisting\" simply meaning that the agreement does not restrict the time limit of use to less than three months. The agreement does not have to exceed three months, but the option to do so must be given by one party.\n\nPartially regulated agreements are those consumer hire or consumer credit agreements which are not an exempt agreement but are exempt from certain provisions of the Act. What these provisions are depends on the type of agreement; small agreements, non-commercial agreements and contracts with a foreign element.\n\nSmall agreements are defined in Section 17 of the act as regulated consumer credit agreements where the credit does not exceed £30 and regulated consumer hire agreements which do not require the hirer to pay more than £30 in fees. This does not include hire-purchase or conditional sale agreements, which do not qualify regardless of the size of credit, secure transactions and transactions where the parties have attempted to break up a transaction into multiple smaller ones worth under £30 to avoid regulation. Small agreements are exempt from almost all of Part V of the act, although they remain controlled by Part IV.\n\nThe Act is primarily aimed at commercial and professional traders, and as a result excludes non-commercial agreements. Non-commercial agreements are defined by the Act as agreements where neither the creditor nor debtor are providing the transaction for business purposes in any way. Non-commercial agreements are exempt from Part V of the Act.\n\nContracts with a foreign element would not normally be mentioned in Acts of Parliament, which are deliberately constructed to avoid giving the law extraterritorial effect. In this case, however, the Act contains provisions for contracts with a foreign element, which due to the nature of commerce are common (a credit card issued in the United Kingdom, for example, which is used on holiday in France). As a result, Section 16(5) specifically excludes contracts \"having a connection with a country outside the United Kingdom\" from the Act.\n\nThe previous Acts on commercial credit provided no mechanism to regulate and enforce the rules, and the Consumer Credit Act's licensing system was the first major regulatory process within British consumer credit law. Licenses are required to carry out a consumer credit or consumer hire business, with exceptions for local authorities and corporate bodies allowed by an Act of Parliament to carry out consumer credit business. All other bodies must apply to the Consumer Credit Licensing Branch of the Office of Fair Trading for a license.\n\nThere are two types of license given - group licenses and standard licenses.\n\nGroup licenses are issued by the Director General of Fair Trading to cover a group of people in those activities described in the license. Group licenses can be issued following an application, or simply voluntarily by the Director. Holders of a group license do not have to apply individually and are not vetted individually, and holding a group license does not prevent members from also applying for a standard license. The group licenses are intended for cases where individual screening is not in the public interest; for example, when bodies are so large and established that their reputation is without question and individual screening would take too much time. Bodies currently holding group licenses include the Law Society of England and Wales and the Law Society of Northern Ireland, both professional associations of solicitors. The Director has the ability to exclude named individuals from group licenses to prevent obvious abuse.\n\nStandard licenses are licenses issued by the Director General to an individual. It can only be provided following an application, not at the Director General's discretion like a group license, and covers certain activities in a fixed period. Initially there was no obligation to issue licenses, but an amendment to the bill in Parliament means that the Director General is required to issue a license on the application of any person, providing that person is a fit person to engage in such activities and the name he applies to be licensed under is not misleading or undesirable. The license allows an individual or a partnership to trade under those names listed on the license, and is divided into seven categories:\n\nHolders of a license are obliged to inform the Director General when there is a change made within the office of a corporate licensee, an unincorporated body or a partnership. This must be done within 21 days of the change occurring. Details of new licenses are published in the \"Consumer Credit Bulletin\", the weekly journal of the Office of Fair Trading. A license lasts for 3 years beginning with the date specified on the license, not the date of its issue. A person who engages in activities that require a license when he does not have one commits a criminal offence. In addition, those agreements he makes are considered unenforceable unless the Director General directly intercedes.\n\nA license can be terminated on the death of the licensee, the licensee becoming bankrupt, the licensee becoming a patient under the Mental Health Act 1959, a bankruptcy deal under the Bankruptcy Act 1914 in which the license is given to a trustee or a deal under the Deeds of Arrangement Act 1914 in which the licensee's license is handed to a trustee. Such provisions cover both individual, unincorporated bodies and partnerships who are license holders. These provisions do not cover corporate bodies, because following consultations the Government became aware that the liquidation and winding-up of a corporate body would pose problems with licensing, largely because the body continues to trade through a liquidator.\n\nThe Act specifically controls the way in which traders and companies seek business. Prior to this individual aspects had been controlled — advertisement by moneylenders had been strictly regulated since the Moneylenders Act 1927 — but no other aspects of consumer credit were regulated at all. While this was acceptable for large and respectable institutions, the evolution of less reputable trading organisations necessitated some kind of regulation, and the Consumer Credit Act was the first statute to provide such controls for consumer credit organisations. It covers three main areas: advertising, canvassing and quotations and the display of information. No regulations have yet been made on quotations or the display of information.\n\nThe advertising provisions apply to any advertisement published for the business carried out by the advertiser which indicates he is willing to provide credit or provide goods to be hired. \"advertisement\" is taken to mean any form of advertisement, including a publication, television or radio broadcast, the display of signs, labels or goods, the distribution of samples, circulars, catalogues or price lists or the exhibition of picture, models or films, or in \"any other way\". Previous legislation such as the Advertisements (Hire-Purchase) Act 1967 limited the definition of advertisement to visual advertisements and excluded oral communications and radio broadcasts, which are included by the Act. The test of whether an oral communication counts as an \"advertisement\" is whether or not the communication is made for drawing attention to the advertiser's business or for answering a specific enquiry without promoting the business. In \"R. v Delmayne\" [1970] 2 QB 170 the High Court of Justice decided that even replying to an enquiry can amount to an advertisement if framed in such a way that it is calculated to attract business.\n\nPart IV only applies to \"public\" advertising published to promote a business — as such circulars given to employees advertising such terms would not be considered \"advertisements\". Advertisements are not regulated by the Act if the advertiser is not involved in a consumer credit business, consumer hire business or a business in which he provides credit to individuals.\n\nUnder Part IV, the Secretary of State can make regulations limiting the form and content of advertisements covered by the Act. The regulations can also specifically include certain terms or facts, and failing to follow them constitutes an offence. The intent of these regulations is to ensure that no advertisement contains misleading information, that advertisements provide the reader with a \"reasonable picture\" of the terms and conditions and that the reader is aware that the availability and terms of credit may be affected by factors such as the age and employment of the applicant.\n\nThe Crowther Committee recommended that doorstep canvassing for loans should be completely prohibited. The original provisions in the bill were indeed extremely stringent, and caused potential problems for other businesses, but were significantly amended and now only affect the canvassing they were intended to prevent. Canvassing is defined as a situation in which an individual (the canvasser) solicits the entry of another individual (the consumer) into an agreement based on his oral representations during a visit by the canvasser to \"any place\" for the purpose of making such representations. Exceptions to \"any place\" are places where business is carried out, either permanently or temporarily, by the creditor, owner, supplier, canvasser, employer of the canvasser or the consumer. There is no requirement that the oral solicitations take place in person - they can come over the telephone, or be trying to induce another individual to convince the consumer into entering an agreement.\n\nPart V of the Act deals with four elements of entering into a credit or hire agreement; pre-contract disclosure, the formalities of entry into a regulated agreement, cancellation of a regulated agreement and its consequences and withdrawal from a prospective regulated agreement and its consequences. In some cases, specific information must be disclosed before a contract is made, with the standard provision that contracts where this is not followed are unenforceable without an order from the courts.\n\nThere are certain formalities for entry into a regulated agreement, mostly based on the documentation that must be provided. Under Section 60, the Secretary of State is required to make certain regulations covering the format that contracts must take. These regulations must ensure that the debtor is made aware of the rights and/or duties conferred on him by the agreement, the amount and rate of the total charge for credit, the protection and remedies available to him and \"any other matters which, in the opinion of the secretary of state, it is desirable for him to know about in connection with the agreement\". The Act allows the Director General of Fair Trading to waive certain requirements if it appears, on the application of a consumer credit business, that to enforce them would be impracticable.\n\nSection 61 lays out the formalities required for a regulated agreement. The terms must be found in a signed and legible document, a copy of the unsigned agreement must be supplied to the debtor or hirer, a copy of the signed document must be supplied to the debtor or hirer and a notice advising the debtor or hirer of his rights of cancellation must be included with the signed and unsigned copies. The \"signed and legible document\" is described in Section 61 as a document which contains all the prescribed terms, other than implied terms, and is, when presented to the debtor or hirer for signature, in such a state that all its terms are legible. Such a document must be in the form \"prescribed by regulations\".\n\nThe regulations in question are the 1983 Regulations (UK Parliament SIs 1980-1989/1983/1551-1600/Consumer Credit (Agreements) Regulations 1983 (SI 1983/1553) 1983 No 1553 \"Consumer Credit (Agreements) Regulations 1983\"). These regulations laid down specific rules regarding certain \"prescribed terms\". For example, a regulated credit agreement had to contain prescribed information about the amount of credit, the length of any fixed term loan, the amount of monthly repayments and so on. If a lender failed to comply with the prescribed regulations then the agreement would not be \"properly executed\" under section 61 and could then be challenged as \"irredeemably unenforceable\" under section 127.\n\nPart V contains several provisions relating to the cancellation of a regulated agreement and the withdrawal from a prospective regulated agreement. These are similar to those found in the Hire-Purchase Act 1965, but cover all consumer credit and consumer hire agreements rather than the hire-purchase and instalment sale agreements previously covered. The withdrawal from a prospective agreement is found primarily at common law; a party may withdraw from a prospective agreement at any point before it becomes a contract without obligations. He can withdraw the prospective agreement by notice to the other party, with the Act allowing the creditor to use credit brokers as agents for this purpose.\n\nThe right to cancel a confirmed agreement was introduced by the Hire-Purchase Act 1964, mainly to frustrate doorstep salesmen who would take advantage of an unsuspecting person and force them to sign up to an agreement, normally with misrepresentations. In the Consumer Credit Act, the right of cancellation is covered in Section 67, which allows the debtor or hirer the right to cancel an agreement if there were false oral representations made to the debtor by somebody acting for the creditor. The cancellation may be enacted by serving a notice of writing given to the creditor or an agent of the creditor within six days of the agreement being made.\n\nThe Act was the first attempt by the Government of the United Kingdom to provide coherent rules relating to the taking of securities when dealing with consumer credit. Other than the Bills of Sale Acts there had been little law on securities before this, apart from a few provisions in the Hire-Purchase Acts. The Consumer Credit Act devoted an entire part of the Act to security, mostly between debtor and creditor, with third-party rights and regulations mostly governed by common law. The Act provides the form of securities, requires certain information and documents to be supplied, controls the enforcement of securities and provides certain circumstances in which securities can be considered void.\n\n\"Security\" is defined by the Act to mean any form of mortgage, bond, indemnity, guarantee or other right provided by the debtor as \"security\" to the consumer credit or hire-purchase agreement being conducted with the creditor. This covers both \"real\" securities such as mortgages and personal securities such as bonds. The only requirement is that the security must be given at the request of the debtor. Any security must be expressed in writing, and in some cases are part of the original hire agreement. This is distinct from previous law, which required a written note of the agreement but allowed the agreement to be conducted orally.\n\nCertain other formalities must be observed; under Section 105, a security is not considered properly executed unless a document is signed on or on behalf of the debtor. This document must conform to certain regulations; the terms must be legible when it is presented to be signed, it must give all the terms and conditions other than implied terms, a copy must also be presented and if the security is provided before the regulated agreement is made, a copy of the security agreement must be given to the debtor within seven days of the regulated agreement being made. If the formalities are not complied with the security agreement becomes unenforceable without a court order. The Act does not provide for any civil or criminal sanctions for creditors who enforce the agreement without a court order, however, but it may lead to the revocation or suspension of the creditor's license.\n\nPart IX gives the courts wide powers to re-open credit deals deemed extortionate and gives them control over regulated agreements. Section 189 establishes that \"courts\" means the county court; all problems are to be brought to the county court, although certain situations relating to extortionate credit agreements can be sent to the High Court.\n\nThe courts are allowed to issue enforcement orders for cases where the contract has been infringed upon, except in situations where the contract has not been signed or the terms are not set out in the contract, in which case they are permanently unenforceable. The courts are also prohibited from making enforcement orders where the owner or creditor did not give a copy of the agreement to the debtor or hirer before the contract commenced. Other than this the court is obliged to issue such orders. There are also situations in which orders can be made even when there has been no infringement. These are when the debtor or hirer has died, to recover protected goods without the consent of a debtor and to enforce a land mortgage.\n\nThe courts can also make \"time orders\" providing for either payment by the debtor of any sum owed to the creditor, remedying any breach of the agreement by the debtor other than non-payment of money or both. These orders are made at the discretion of the courts after an application for an enforcement order. The time orders can also cover statutory bailment in the case of hire-order or hire-purchase agreements. If the court feels that the property in dispute or acting as security is at risk of damage or deprecation, they can give protection orders preventing the use of the property. This re-enacts Section 35 of the Hire-Purchase Act 1965, which was repealed by the Consumer Credit Act.\n\nOther orders are \"special orders\", covered by Section 133 of the Act. There are two types; return orders and transfer orders. Return orders are orders from the court requiring the return of goods covered by the agreement to the creditor. These orders may be immediate or subject to a delay, and may give the debtor the option to pay the goods value to the creditor if he does not return the goods in time. Transfer orders are orders transferring the creditor's ownership of certain goods to the debtor, ordering the payment of the rest of the goods to the creditor. This can only be done if the debtor pays an amount of money equal or more than one third of the value of the returned goods.\n\nThe courts have long held equitable jurisdiction to set aside \"harsh and unconscionable bargains\", but prior to the Consumer Credit Act this was mainly used in cases where uninformed tradespeople have been selling goods at a loss, and was rarely used in the 20th century. The Moneylenders Act 1900 allowed the court to re-open a moneylending transaction if there was evidence that interest rates were \"harsh and unconscionable or otherwise such that a court of equity would give relief\", unless the moneylender could justify the rates. It was rarely used in the field of consumer credit because it was limited to those sorts of consumer transactions covered by the Moneylenders Act, and did not cover hire-purchase agreements or instalment sale agreements or loan transactions from people who were not moneylenders, such as banks.\n\nThe Consumer Credit Act provided guidelines for the court in determining whether a credit bargain is extortionate and extends the courts jurisdiction in this area to cover all credit agreements. If the court does believe the bargain was extortionate, it can re-open the agreement and examine the terms of it. If they decide it is indeed extortionate, they can set aside the remaining money owed, order the creditor to give money to the debtor, alter the terms of the agreement or order the return of any security. This only covers consumer credit agreements, not hire agreements.\n\nAn ancillary credit business is defined in Section 145 of the Act as any business that works in credit brokerage, debt adjusting, debt collecting, debt counselling or as a credit reference agency.\n\nCredit brokers are people involved in negotiating deals between potential debtors looking for credit and creditors, normally in exchange for a commission. Under the Act, \"credit broker\" includes not only mortgage brokers and loan brokers but also car dealers, shops that introduce customers to financial houses for hire-purchase agreements and solicitors who negotiate advances for non-corporate clients. An exception to this is if introductions and negotiations are not made in the individual's capacity as an employee of a business.\n\nDebt adjusting is when a company or individual negotiates with the creditor or owner in an agreement on behalf of the debtor to change the terms for the discharge of the debt, takes over the debt in exchange for payment by the debtor or engages in \"any similar activity concerned with the liquidation of a debt\".Pieheads This is again a wide area; the base definition covers, for example, solicitors and accountants who act as negotiators for clients who owe money to a third party. There are certain exceptions; a solicitor negotiating for the settlement of his client's debts is not considered to be working as a debt adjuster thanks to Section 146 of the Act, which excludes \"a solicitor engaging in contentious business\" as defined in the Solicitors Act 1957.\n\nDebt counselling is the giving of advice to debtors or hirers about the liquidation of debts under consumer credit or consumer hire agreements. This covers any debt counsellor, regardless of if it is free legal advice; as a result the Citizens Advice Bureau, for example, is considered a debt counsellor, although its advisers are covered by a group license. Debt collectors are covered by similar provisions, and are defined as anybody who takes steps to \"procure payment of debts due\" under consumer credit agreements and consumer hire agreements. Those who \"purchase\" debts and attempt to collect on them are covered by this definition.\n\nExceptions for these definitions are provided under Section 146 if the credit broker, debt adjuster, debt counsellor or debt collector is the creditor or owner under the credit agreement, the supplier under the agreement, a credit broker who has acquired the business of the supplier or somebody expressly excluded from certain definitions, such as a solicitor. The provisions for suppliers only come into effect when the credit is a loan, so that the supplier and creditor are different people. The exceptions do not include people who \"buy\" the roles above by purchasing the debts, such as professional debt buyers or financial houses.\n\nCredit reference agencies are covered separately from other ancillary credit businesses, and are defined in Section 148 as individuals or companies which carry on a business \"comprising the furnishing of persons with information relevant to the financial standard of individuals, being information collected by the agency for that purpose\". This definition was the subject of much academic debate, because the holding of the license for a credit reference agency involves a duty to supply information on credit status which the company might prefer to keep confidential. There are exceptions; the information must be collected for the purpose of giving it to others, so the fact that a bank, for example, has that information, does not mean they need to obtain a license as a credit reference agency.\n\nPart III of the Act applies directly to ancillary credit businesses, who must obtain a license. As with standard credit agreements, agreements made by an unlicensed ancillary trader are only enforceable against the other party if the Director General of Fair Trading issues an order which applies to the agreement. Under Section 149, creditors have an onus to make sure that the credit brokers they obtain business from are duly licensed. Again, if the broker is unlicensed, the agreement between the debtor and creditor is only enforceable when the Director General makes an order saying so. These provisions came into effect on 1 July 1978.\n\nPart IV of the Act also applies to ancillary credit businesses in relation to advertising, canvassing and quotations, as well as ways in which business can be sought. The Act also limited the brokerage fees that credit brokers can charge. Under Section 155, if the brokerage work does not lead to the client entering into an agreement with a creditor within 6 months of the work, the entire fee (minus the sum of £1) is refundable to the client. The Director General at the time indicated that those businesses which flouted Section 155 would be refused a license. These provisions came into force on 1 April 1977.\n\nSome elements of the Act came into force on 31 July 1974, the day it was passed, but many were left to be brought in later at the discretion of the government. This process was \"painfully slow\", with almost nothing apart from the licensing system being active in 1979. Section 141, which requires enforcement actions of a regulated credit or linked transaction to be pursued in the county court, came into force on 19 May 1985 through the statutory instrument \"Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Commencement No. 8) Order 1983\". The Act repealed the Hire-Purchase Act 1965, the Advertisements (Hire Purchase) Act 1967, the Moneylenders Act 1900, the Moneylenders Act 1927, the Pawnbrokers Act 1872 and the Pawnbrokers Act 1960. The Act was influential outside the United Kingdom, and was studied in both the United States and the Commonwealth of Nations. It formed the basis of a 1979 Directive on Consumer Credit of the European Union.\n\nThe Act did not go to the full extent suggested by the Crowther Committee's report, with protection only being available for consumers, not for the credit industry.\nThe Act was widely supported by all sides of the political spectrum, and by academia. Arthur Rogerson compared it to the Law of Property Act 1925 in that, like the 1925 Act, it \"represents fundamental rethinking of an area of great economic significance, which has resulted in the sweeping away of a chaos of obsolete rules, and the substitution for them of a simpler and better enforced body of law\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29686003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29686003", "title": "Countermeasure (law)", "text": "Countermeasure (law)\n\nCountermeasure in public international law refers to reprisals not involving the use of force. In other words, it refers to non-violent acts which are illegal in themselves, but become legal when executed by one state in response to the commission of an earlier illegal act by another state towards the former.\n\nThe leading case on countermeasure is the International Court of Justice decision in Gabčíkovo – Nagymaros Dams case. The court remarked that, for a countermeasure to be justifiable, it must meet the conditions below:\n\nArticle 22 of the International Law Commission draft articles on state responsibility states that the wrongfulness of an act is precluded if the act constitutes a countermeasure. Therefore, a validly executed countermeasure is legal under international law. \n"}
{"id": "6393582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6393582", "title": "Creditors' rights", "text": "Creditors' rights\n\nCreditors' rights are the procedural provisions designed to protect the ability of creditors—persons who are owed money—to collect the money that they are owed. These provisions vary from one jurisdiction to another, and may include the ability of a creditor to put a lien on a debtor's property, to effect a seizure and forced sale of the debtor's property, to effect a garnishment of the debtor's wages, and to have certain purchases or gifts made by the debtor set aside as fraudulent conveyances. The rights of a particular creditor usually depend in part on the reason for which the debt is owed, and the terms of any writing memorializing the debt.\n\nCreditors' rights deal not only with the rights of creditors against the debtor, but also with the rights of creditors against one another. Where multiple creditors claim a right to levy against a particular piece of property, or against the debtor's accounts in general, the rules governing creditor's rights determine which creditor has the strongest right to any particular relief.\n\nGenerally, creditors can be divided between those who \"perfected\" their interest by establishing an appropriate public record of the debt and any property claimed as collateral for it, and those who have not. Creditors may also be classed according to whether they are \"in possession\" of the collateral, and by whether the debt was created as a purchase money security interest. A creditor may generally ask a court to set aside a fraudulent conveyance designed to move the debtor's property or funds out of their reach.\n\nSome lawyers have a specialized practice area focused on the collection of such debts. Such attorneys are frequently referred to as collection attorneys or collection lawyers.\n\nAttorneys who practice in the area of \"creditor's rights\" perform one or all of the following:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "345419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=345419", "title": "Economic freedom", "text": "Economic freedom\n\nEconomic freedom or economic liberty is the ability of people of a society to take economic actions. This is a term used in economic and policy debates as well as in the philosophy of economics. One approach to economic freedom comes from classical liberal and libertarian traditions emphasizing free markets, free trade, and private property under free enterprise. Another approach to economic freedom extends the welfare economics study of individual choice, with greater economic freedom coming from a \"larger\" (in some technical sense) set of possible choices. Other conceptions of economic freedom include freedom from want and the freedom to engage in collective bargaining.\n\nThe free market viewpoint defines economic liberty as the freedom to produce, trade and consume any goods and services acquired without the use of force, fraud or theft. This is embodied in the rule of law, property rights and freedom of contract, and characterized by external and internal openness of the markets, the protection of property rights and freedom of economic initiative. There are several indices of economic freedom that attempt to measure free market economic freedom. Based on these rankings correlative studies have found higher economic growth to be correlated with higher scores on the country rankings. With regards to other measures, such as equality, corruption, political and social violence and their correlation to economic freedom it has been argued that the economic freedom indices conflate unrelated policies and policy outcomes to conceal negative correlations between economic growth and economic freedom in some subcomponents.\n\nAccording to the free market view, a secure system of private property rights is an essential part of economic freedom. Such systems include two main rights: the right to control and benefit from property and the right to transfer property by voluntary means. These rights offer people the possibility of autonomy and self-determination according to their personal values and goals. Economist Milton Friedman sees property rights as \"the most basic of human rights and an essential foundation for other human rights.\" With property rights protected, people are free to choose the use of their property, earn on it, and transfer it to anyone else, as long as they do it on a voluntary basis and do not resort to force, fraud or theft. In such conditions most people can achieve much greater personal freedom and development than under a regime of government coercion. A secure system of property rights also reduces uncertainty and encourages investments, creating favorable conditions for an economy to be successful. Empirical evidence suggests that countries with strong property rights systems have economic growth rates almost twice as high as those of countries with weak property rights systems, and that a market system with significant private property rights is an essential condition for democracy. According to Hernando de Soto, much of the poverty in the Third World countries is caused by the lack of Western systems of laws and well-defined and universally recognized property rights. De Soto argues that because of the legal barriers poor people in those countries can not utilize their assets to produce more wealth. One thinker to question private property was Pierre-Joseph Proudhon, a socialist and anarchist, who argued that property is both theft and freedom.\n\nFreedom of contract is the right to choose one's contracting parties and to trade with them on any terms and conditions one sees fit. Contracts permit individuals to create their own enforceable legal rules, adapted to their unique situations. However, not all contracts need to be enforced by the state. For example, in the United States there is a large number of third-party arbitration tribunals which resolve disputes under private commercial law. Negatively understood, freedom of contract is freedom from government interference and from imposed value judgments of fairness. The notion of \"freedom of contract\" was given one of its most famous legal expressions in 1875 by Sir George Jessel MR: \n\nThe doctrine of freedom of contract received one of its strongest expressions in the US Supreme Court case of Lochner v New York which struck down legal restrictions on the working hours of bakers. \n\nCritics of the classical view of freedom of contract argue that this freedom is illusory when the bargaining power of the parties is highly unequal, most notably in the case of contracts between employers and workers. As in the case of restrictions on working hours, workers as a group may benefit from legal protections that prevent individuals agreeing to contracts that require long working hours. In its West Coast Hotel Co. v. Parrish decision in 1937, overturning Lochner, the Supreme Court cited an earlier decisions \nFrom this point on, the Lochner view of freedom of contract has been rejected by US courts.\n\nSome free market advocates argue that political and civil liberties have simultaneously expanded with market-based economies, and present empirical evidence to support the claim that economic and political freedoms are linked.\n\nIn \"Capitalism and Freedom\" (1962), Friedman further developed Friedrich Hayek's argument that economic freedom, while itself an extremely important component of total freedom, is also a necessary condition for political freedom. He commented that centralized control of economic activities was always accompanied with political repression. In his view, voluntary character of all transactions in a free market economy and wide diversity that it permits are fundamental threats to repressive political leaders and greatly diminish power to coerce. Through elimination of centralized control of economic activities, economic power is separated from political power, and the one can serve as counterbalance to the other. Friedman feels that competitive capitalism is especially important to minority groups, since impersonal market forces protect people from discrimination in their economic activities for reasons unrelated to their productivity.\n\nAustrian School economist Ludwig von Mises argued that economic and political freedom were mutually dependent: \"The idea that political freedom can be preserved in the absence of economic freedom, and vice versa, is an illusion. Political freedom is the corollary of economic freedom. It is no accident that the age of capitalism became also the age of government by the people.\"\n\nIn \"The Road to Serfdom\", Hayek argued that \"Economic control is not merely control of a sector of human life which can be separated from the rest; it is the control of the means for all our ends.\" Hayek criticized socialist policies as the slippery slope that can lead to totalitarianism.\n\nGordon Tullock has argued that \"the Hayek-Friedman argument\" predicted totalitarian governments in much of Western Europe in the late 20th century – which did not occur. He uses the example of Sweden, in which the government at that time controlled 63 percent of GNP, as an example to support his argument that the basic problem with \"The Road to Serfdom\" is \"that it offered predictions which turned out to be false. The steady advance of government in places such as Sweden has not led to any loss of non-economic freedoms.\" While criticizing Hayek, Tullock still praises the classical liberal notion of economic freedom, saying, \"Arguments for political freedom are strong, as are the arguments for economic freedom. We needn’t make one set of arguments depend on the other.\"\n\nThe annual surveys \"Economic Freedom of the World\" (EFW) and \"Index of Economic Freedom\" (IEF) are two indices which attempt to measure the degree of economic freedom in the world's nations. The EFW index, originally developed by Gwartney, Lawson and Block at the Fraser Institute was likely the most used in empirical studies as of 2000. The other major index, which was developed by The Heritage Foundation and The Wall Street Journal appears superior for data work, although as it only goes back to 1995, it is less useful for historical comparisons.\n\nAccording to the creators of the indices, these rankings correlate strongly with higher average income per person, higher income of the poorest 10%, higher life expectancy, higher literacy, lower infant mortality, higher access to water sources and less corruption. The people living in the top one-fifth of countries enjoy an average income of $23,450 and a growth rate in the 1990s of 2.56 percent per year; in contrast, the bottom one-fifth in the rankings had an average income of just $2,556 and a -0.85 percent growth rate in the 1990s. The poorest 10 percent of the population have an average income of just $728 in the lowest ranked countries compared with over $7,000 in the highest ranked countries. The life expectancy of people living in the highest ranked nations is 20 years longer than for people in the lowest ranked countries.\n\nHigher economic freedom, as measured by both the Heritage and the Fraser indices, correlates strongly with higher self-reported happiness.\n\nErik Gartzke of the Fraser Institute estimates that countries with a high EFW are significantly less likely to be involved in wars, while his measure of democracy had little or no impact.\n\nThe \"Economic Freedom of the World\" score for the entire world has grown considerably in recent decades. The average score has increased from 5.17 in 1985 to 6.4 in 2005. Of the nations in 1985, 95 nations increased their score, seven saw a decline, and six were unchanged. Using the 2008 Index of Economic Freedom methodology world economic freedom has increased 2.6 points since 1995.\n\nMembers of the World Bank Group also use \"Index of Economic Freedom\" as the indicator of investment climate, because it covers more aspects relevant to the private sector in wide number of countries.\n\nThe nature of economic freedom is often in dispute. Robert Lawson, the co-author of \"EFW\", even acknowledges the potential shortcomings of freedom indices: \"The purpose of the EFW index is to measure, no doubt imprecisely, the degree of economic freedom that exists.\" He likens the recent attempts of economists to measure economic freedom to the initial attempts of economists to measure GDP: \"They [macroeconomists] were\nscientists who sat down to design, as best they could with the tools at hand, a measure of the current economic activity of the nation. Economic activity exists and their job was to measure it. Likewise economic freedom exists. It is a thing. We can define and measure it.\"\nThus, it follows that some economists, socialists and anarchists contend that the existing indicators of economic freedom are too narrowly defined and should take into account a broader conception of economic freedoms.\n\nCritics of the indices (e.g. Thom Hartmann) also oppose the inclusion of business-related measures like corporate charters and intellectual property protection. John Miller in Dollars & Sense has stated that the indices are \"a poor barometer of either freedom more broadly construed or of prosperity.\" He argues that the high correlation between living standards and economic freedom as measured by IEF is the result of choices made in the construction of the index that guarantee this result. For example, the treatment of a large informal sector (common in poor countries) as an indicator of restrictive government policy, and the use of the change in the ratio of government spending to national income, rather than the level of this ratio. Hartmann argues that these choices cause the social democratic European countries to rank higher than countries where the government share of the economy is small but growing.\n\nEconomists Dani Rodrik and Jeffrey Sachs have separately noted that there appears to be little correlation between measured economic freedom and economic growth when the least free countries are disregarded, as indicated by the strong growth of the Chinese economy in recent years. Morris Altman found that there is a relatively large correlation between economic freedom and both per capita income and per capita growth. He argues that this is especially true when it comes to sub-indices relating to property rights and sound money, while he calls into question the importance of sub-indices relating to labor regulation and government size once certain threshold values are passed. John Miller further observes that Hong Kong and Singapore, both only \"partially free\" according to Freedom House, are leading countries on both economic freedom indices and casts doubt on the claim that measured economic freedom is associated with political freedom. However, according to the Freedom House, \"there is a high and statistically significant correlation between the level of political freedom as measured by Freedom House and economic freedom as measured by the Wall Street Journal/Heritage Foundation survey.\"\n\nAmartya Sen and other economists consider economic freedom to be measured in terms of the set of economic choices available to individuals. Economic freedom is greater when individuals have more economic choices available – when, in some technical sense, the choice set of individuals expands.\n\nThe differences between alternative views of economic freedom have been expressed in terms of Isaiah Berlin's distinction between positive freedom and negative freedom. Classical liberals favour a focus on negative freedom as did Berlin himself. By contrast Amartya Sen argues for an understanding of freedom in terms of capabilities to pursue a range of goals. One measure which attempts to assess freedom in the positive sense is Goodin, Rice, Parpo, and Eriksson's measure of discretionary time, which is an estimate of how much time people have at their disposal during which they are free to choose the activities in which they participate, after taking into account the time they need to spend acquiring the necessities of life. In his book, \"Capitalism and Freedom\", Milton Friedman explains the preservation of freedom is the reason for limited and decentralized governments. It creates positive freedom within the society allowing for freedom of choice for an individual in a free society.\n\nFranklin D. Roosevelt included freedom from want in his Four freedoms speech. Roosevelt stated that freedom from want \"translated into world terms, means economic understandings which will secure to every nation a healthy peacetime life for its inhabitants-everywhere in the world\". In terms of US policy, Roosevelt's New Deal included economic freedoms such as freedom of trade union organisation, as well as a wide range of policies of government intervention and redistributive taxation aimed at promoting freedom from want. Internationally, Roosevelt favored the policies associated with the Bretton Woods Agreement which fixed exchange rates and established international economic institutions such as the World Bank and International Monetary Fund.\n\nHerbert Hoover saw economic freedom as a fifth freedom, which secures survival of Roosevelt's Four freedoms. He described economic freedom as freedom \"for men to choose their own calling, to accumulate property in protection of their children and old age, [and] freedom of enterprise that does not injure others.\"\n\nThe Philadelphia Declaration (enshrined in the constitution of the International Labour Organization) states that \"all human beings, irrespective of race, creed or sex, have the right to pursue both their material well-being and their spiritual development in conditions of freedom and dignity, of economic security and equal opportunity.\" The ILO further states that \"The right of workers and employers to form and join organizations of their own choosing is an integral part of a free and open society.\"\n\nThe socialist view of economic freedom conceives of freedom as a concrete situation as opposed to an abstract or moral concept. This view of freedom is closely related to the socialist view of human creativity and the importance ascribed to creative freedom. Socialists view creativity as an essential aspect of human nature, thus defining freedom as a situation or state of being where individuals are able to express their creativity unhindered by constraints of both material scarcity and coercive social institutions. Marxists stress the importance of freeing the individual from what they view as coercive, exploitative and alienating social relationships of production they are compelled to partake in, as well as the importance of economic development as providing the material basis for the existence of a state of society where there are enough resources to allow for each individual to pursue his or her genuine creative interests.\n\nOne of the ways to measure economic competitiveness is by comparing an extent of economic freedom that countries have, which as surveys show can also largely explain differences in economic well-being across the world. Generally, countries with higher economic freedom have higher gross domestic product per capita and its growth rates, as well as better health care, education quality, environment protection, income equality, and happiness results. These trends of increasing prosperity are confirmed even when we compare these indicators within territories of countries. \nNevertheless, despite these benefits societies have to be aware that with increasing economic freedom they will have to face going through a phase of increasing inequality, which basically is a result of decreased redistribution, as well as other negative effects from economic liberalization, i.e., running of local enterprises out of business, takeover of competitive firms, enforcing of interests of foreign companies, dependence on foreign capital, deteriorating work rights, harmful manufacturing for the environment, introducing of commercial practices that are not favorable for consumers, as well as endangerment for survival of national cultures.\nHowever, on the bright side, these negative effects from economic freedom tend to be felt in a shorter term, and if countries use the opportunities of economic freedom in our increasingly globalized economy in a right way, as research shows their socioeconomic conditions will be significantly better than in a case of less economic freedom.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45694836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45694836", "title": "FSS Code", "text": "FSS Code\n\nThe FSS Code or International Code for Fire Safety Systems is a set of international treaties organised by the International Maritime Organization under the SOLAS Convention that are designed to reduce the risk of fire, and aid in emergency response aboard ships. Some of the components of the code were constructed after some high-profile passenger ship disasters over the last century.\nThe FSS Code covers:\n\n\nThe FSS Code has been through some evolution:\n\n"}
{"id": "10268308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10268308", "title": "Further assurances", "text": "Further assurances\n\nA further assurances clause is part of the standard 'boilerplate' in most sophisticated commercial agreements. It provides that a party shall provide cooperation and assistance to the other party in executing duties under the contract. For example, in an agreement for a home construction there might be a clause requiring the party purchasing the contractor's services to assist the contractor in securing variances, easements, or building permits required by law for a home construction. Without a further assurances clause one party might try to escape the contract by withholding assistance to the other party where that assistance is either necessary or of great importance. Accordingly, it is generally considered poor legal drafting to omit a further assurances provision where there is a possibility one's client may need the assistance of the other party to fulfill his responsibilities or obtain some intended benefit under the contract.\n"}
{"id": "39548304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39548304", "title": "Ghana Open Data Initiative", "text": "Ghana Open Data Initiative\n\nGhana Open Data Initiative (GODI) was started in January 2012 by the National Information Technology Agency (NITA) in partnership with the Web Foundation (WF), to make Government of Ghana data available to the public for re-use. The establishment of GODI is meant to promote efficiency, transparency and accountability in governance as well as to facilitate economic growth by means of the creation of Mobile and Web applications for the Ghanaian and world markets. The project was scheduled for completion in 2014 and aimed to create a sustainable Open Data ecosystem for Ghana. GODI was launched with a 100 data sets categorized as political, legal, organizational, technical, social or economic. The vision of GODI is to develop an open data community involving the Government of Ghana, civil society organizations, industry, developer communities, academia, media practitioners, and the citizenry, to interact with one another with the aim of developing an open data portal to bring about transparency, accountability and efficiency in government.\n\nAt the close of 2011, the president of the Republic of Ghana, His Excellency Prof. J.E. Mills, signed the Open Government Partnership (OGP), a global initiative started by the United States government. The OGP is a new multilateral initiative that aims to secure concrete commitments from governments to promote transparency, empower citizens, fight corruption, and harness new technologies to strengthen governance. In the spirit of multistakeholder collaboration, the OGP is overseen by a steering committee of governments, civil society organizations, academia and the developer community.\n\nPrior to Ghana signing onto the OGP, the World Wide Web Foundation (WF) had conducted feasibility studies in Ghana and Chile as special case studies for developing countries and published the report in February 2011. On the basis of the feasibility report, the National Information Technology Agency (NITA), an agency of the Ministry of Communications, which was created by an Act of Parliament to oversee and implement government policy on Information and Communication Technology (ICT), began discussions with the WF in April 2011 on how to develop an open government portal in Ghana.\n\nNITA over the last three years has been deploying a massive government network dubbed the GovNET across the country and data centers which will be repositories of Government data. NITA has also been mandated to engage the citizenry with government by providing e-Services platforms to serve the citizenry with services like online passport application, business and birth and death registration which NITA is executing with 11 pilot e-service platforms.\n\nOn the initial signing of the OGP commitment by the embassy of Ghana in the US in September 2011, NITA intensified its discussions with the WF on developing a national plan to create an open data portal where government could make its data available in a format that civil society organizations (CSOs), the developer community, academia, the media and industry could re-use. These discussions culminated in a visit to Ghana by a team from the WF during which a strategic plan was developed at a formal stakeholders’ meeting which took place in Accra, where the initiative was duly launched. The visiting WF team and NITA officials paid a courtesy call on the then Vice President His Excellency John Dramani Mahama to invite him to champion the Ghana Open Data Initiative.\n\nOpen government data is particularly important to low and middle income countries like Ghana because:\n\nThe WF feasibility report indicated that the Government of Ghana has the political will to make information transparently available to its citizens.\nIn January 2012, then vice president of Ghana, John Mahama, informed a delegation from the WF that he was committed to championing the GODI at the cabinet level.\n\nThe feasibility report of the WF indicated that government departments and agencies are in support of OGD initiatives. Substantial information is already available in digital format; however end user access still remains on paper which imparts negatively on the access and reuse of information. Since January 2012 when the GODI started, several public administrators have indicated their willingness to provide data in the format required to contribute to the project.\n\nThe WF feasibility report indicated that there is already a movement towards reuse of information driven by organizations like the Population Council as well as universities that are advocating the access to raw data for their studies.\n\nThe National Information Technology Agency (NITA) is the implementing agency for the Ghana Open Data Initiative (GODI). The GODI portal was developed on the fourth thematic area of the Open Government Partnership.\n\nThe objectives of the GODI project are to:\n\nGhana’s decision to create an open data portal was informed by the fact the Open Government Data (OGD) programs around the world have demonstrated multiple benefits. GODI perceives that Ghana can gain all the benefit of open data which are grouped around three main themes:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30891404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30891404", "title": "History of bankruptcy law", "text": "History of bankruptcy law\n\nThe history of bankruptcy law begins with the first legal remedies available for recovery of debts. Bankruptcy is the legal status of a legal person unable to repay debts.\n\nIn Ancient Greece, bankruptcy did not exist. If a man owed and he could not pay, he and his wife, children or servants were forced into \"debt slavery\", until the creditor recouped losses via their physical labour. Many city-states in ancient Greece limited debt slavery to a period of five years and debt slaves had protection of life and limb, which regular slaves did not enjoy. However, servants of the debtor could be retained beyond that deadline by the creditor and were often forced to serve their new lord for a lifetime, usually under significantly harsher conditions.\n\nIn Judaism and the Torah, or Old Testament, every seventh year is decreed by Mosaic Law as a Sabbatical year wherein the release of all debts that are owed by members of the Jewish community is mandated, but not of \"gentiles\". The seventh Sabbatical year, or forty-ninth year, is then followed by another Sabbatical year known as the Year of Jubilee wherein the release of all debts is mandated, for fellow community members and foreigners alike, and the release of all debt-slaves is also mandated. The Year of Jubilee is announced in advance on the Day of Atonement, or the tenth day of the seventh Biblical month, in the forty-ninth year by the blowing of trumpets throughout the land of Israel.\n\nIn Islamic teaching, according to the Quran, an insolvent person was deemed to be allowed time to be able to pay out his debt. This is recorded in the Quran's second chapter (Sura Al-Baqara), Verse 281, which notes: \"And if someone is in hardship, then let there be postponement until a time of ease. But if you give from your right as charity, then it is better for you, if you only knew.\"\n\nMedieval canon law discussed extensively provisions to mitigate the harshness of debtors' punishments. Most commentators allowed for a debtor to be discharged and make a fresh start, after ceding to his creditors all his goods (or possibly all his goods except some bare necessities). These provisions later influenced English law.\n\nBankruptcy is also documented in East Asia. According to al-Maqrizi, the Yassa of Genghis Khan contained a provision that mandated the death penalty for anyone who became bankrupt three times.\n\nPhilip II of Spain had to declare four state bankruptcies in 1557, 1560, 1575 and 1596. Spain became the first sovereign nation in history to declare bankruptcy.\n\nSome form of law for bankrupts can be seen tracing back to Ancient Babylon. In England, the first recognised piece of legislation was the Statute of Bankrupts 1542. Bankrupts were seen as crooks, and the Act stated its aim to prevent \"crafty debtors\" escaping the realm. A more humane approach was developed in the Bankrupts Act 1705. The Lord Chancellor was given power to discharge bankrupts, once disclosure of all assets and various procedures had been fulfilled. In \"Fowler v Padget\" Lord Kenyon reasserted the old sentiment that \"Bankruptcy is considered a crime and a bankrupt in the old laws is called an offender.\"\n\nThe bankrupt was seen as being bonded to his creditors. Under the Insolvent Debtors (England) Act 1813, debtors could request release after 14 days in jail by taking an oath that their assets did not exceed £20, but if any of their creditors objected, they had to stay inside. Attitudes were changing, however, and the Bankrupts (England) Act 1825 allowed people to start proceedings for their own bankruptcy, in agreement with creditors. Previously only creditors could start the proceedings. Bankruptcy proceedings agreed between creditors and debtor also occurred when a trader filed a declaration of insolvency in the office of the Chancellor’s Secretary of Bankrupts, which was then advertised. The advertised declaration supported a commission in bankruptcy to be issued. A law was thereafter enacted, which declared that no commission grounded on this act of bankruptcy was to be “deemed invalid by reason of such declaration having been concerted or agreed upon between the bankrupt and any creditor or other person.” (Bankrupts (England) Act 1825, sections VI and VII). Voluntary bankruptcy was not authorized until 1849. (Bankruptcy Law Consolidation Act 1849, section 93 (1849)).\n\nIn the middle of the 19th century, attitudes towards corporations were also quickly changing. Since the South Sea Bubble disaster, companies were viewed as inefficient and dangerous. But with the industrial revolution in full swing that changed. The Joint Stock Companies Act 1844 allowed people to create companies without permission through a royal charter. Companies had \"separate legal personality\", the ability to sue and be sued, and served as an easy mechanism for raising capital through the purchase of shares (an equitable title) in the company's capital. The Act's corollary, to bring the existence of these \"legal persons\" to an end was the Joint Stock Companies Winding-Up Act 1844. The Limited Liability Act 1855 produced a further innovation. Before, if a corporation had gone broke, the people that lent it money (creditors) could sue all the shareholders to pay off the company's debts. But the 1855 Act said that shareholders' liability would be limited to the amount they had paid for their shares of stock. The Joint Stock Companies Act 1856 consolidated the companies legislation in one, and the modern law of corporate insolvency was born. Finally, the Bankruptcy Act 1869 was passed allowing all people, rather than just traders to file for bankruptcy.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36277307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36277307", "title": "Homeless Bill of Rights", "text": "Homeless Bill of Rights\n\nThe Homeless Bill of Rights (also Homeless Person's Bill of Rights and Acts of Living bill) refers to legislation protecting the civil and human rights of homeless people. These laws affirm that homeless people have equal rights to medical care, free speech, free movement, voting, opportunities for employment, and privacy. Legislation of this type is currently being debated at the state level in the United States. Over 120 organizations in five different states have shown public support for a Homeless Bill of Rights and are working towards its implementation. A Homeless Bill of Rights has become law in Rhode Island, Connecticut and Illinois and is under consideration by several other U.S. states, including California, Delaware, Minnesota, Missouri, Oregon, Tennessee, and Vermont.\n\nWhile the wording and objectives of proposed bills vary from state to state, most proposed legislation seeks to protect these central rights for all unhoused individuals:\n\n\nThis type of legislation is groundbreaking because it asserts that having a permanent and valid address is not a requisite for retaining basic rights. Many cities around the United States attempt to shift the problem of housing insecurity outside their jurisdiction by criminalizing homelessness. The criminalization of homelessness creates a vicious cycle of citations, fines, imprisonment, and reduced employability that further increases the difficulty of securing stable housing. States that implement a Homeless Bill of Rights protect individuals' rights to exist in public spaces, thus requiring that cities attempt to directly address the issue of housing insecurity. Moreover, while a Homeless Bill of Rights may not directly create signifiant change in the lives of unhoused individuals, it can facilitate a shift in the American perspective of homelessness and open up avenues for further discourse, programs, and legislation.\n\nThe criminalization of homelessness can be defined as the passage of laws or ordinances that prohibit sitting, sleeping, panhandling, sharing food, or religious practice in public spaces. Over 610,000 people are homeless on any given night in the United States, and a third of them are unsheltered. The growing issue of homelessness has been met with increasingly strict anti-homeless legislation that seeks to reduce the visibility of unhoused individuals. These measures penalize individuals from performing necessary, life-sustaining practices (such as sleeping) outside of the private domain, and disproportionately impact unhoused populations who have no choice but to occupy public space for these activities.\n\nSurveys by the Western Regional Advocacy Project (WRAP) have documented the impacts of such anti-homeless legislation by interviewing over 1,300 unhoused individuals. Of those interviewed, 81% of individuals reported being \"harassed, cited or arrested for sleeping\", 77% said they had been \"harassed, cited or arrested for sitting or lying on the sidewalk\", and 26% \"knew of a safe place to sleep at night\".\n\nAs The National Law Center on Homelessness and Poverty concludes its report on the \"criminalization of homelessness\":\n\nHomeless Bills of Rights seek to amend local codes that outlaw loitering, vagrancy, sitting or lying on the sidewalk, begging, urinating, eating in public, and other behaviors that disproportionately affect homeless people. Most homeless advocates agree that the issue of homelessness can only be alleviated if there is a focus placed on changing laws that criminalize homelessness.\n\nOpposition to legislature that supports the rights of unhoused individuals primarily comes from state and city officials, housed citizens, and varied business interests. Increasing the visibility of homelessness as a public issue is an implicit goal of many Homeless Bill of Rights advocates. Visible homelessness, especially in the form of encampments, is typically regarded as a failure of the city or state. Most anti-homeless legislation seeks to mitigate the issue by moving unhoused individuals from one space to another and thus decrease the visibility of \"undesirable\" individuals in public spaces.\n\nBusiness interests, represented by the California Chamber of Commerce, have called Assemblymember Tom Ammiano's Homeless Person's Bill of Rights a \"job killer\" which would create \"costly and unreasonable mandates on employers.\" Some municipalities and local politicians also oppose the laws, which impose state authority to overturn local regulations. San Francisco Supervisor Scott Wiener commented:\n\nThe \"Los Angeles Times\" suggested in an editorial that the Homeless Bill of Rights does not go far enough unless accompanied by economic resources allocated to provide housing. Joel John Roberts, CEO of People Assisting the Homeless, argued similarly that the Homeless Bill of Rights may be toothless and even enabling. Roberts writes:\n\nThe idea of a \"Homeless Bill of Rights\" has been discussed periodically in the U.S., and was presented formally by a group of New York City ministers on Martin Luther King Jr. Day, 1992. City Councilperson Peter Vallone introduced several versions of such a Bill in 1998, despite strong opposition from Mayor Rudy Giuliani.\n\nPuerto Rico and some states have passed laws adding homeless people to their lists of groups protected against hate crimes.\n\nRhode Island was the first state in the U.S. to pass a \"Homeless Bill of Rights\". John Joyce, who was homeless for a period in his life, is responsible for the initial introduction of the bill. The Rhode Island law, S-2052, was ratified in the state of Rhode Island on June 21, 2012 and signed into law by Governor Lincoln Chafee on June 27. It amends the Rhode Island Fair Housing Act with wording intended to protect the rights of homeless people and prevent discrimination against them. It is the first U.S. state-level law designed to protect the rights of homeless people.\n\nThe well-established Rhode Island Coalition for the Homeless (and a newer subgroup called Rhode Island Homeless Advocacy Project) collaborated with the more radical Occupy Providence group to lobby successfully for the Bill.\n\nThe legislation passed in Rhode Island guaranteed unhoused individuals seven negative rights. However, while it expressly states that \"[n]o person's rights, privileges, or access to public services may be denied or abridged solely because he or she is homeless\", the law does not guarantee positive rights such as housing or food. Because the legislation simply restates the rights of all citizens of Rhode Island, some homeless advocates are concerned that it has not had enough impact. However, this Bill is still noteworthy because the rights it does guarantee are judicially enforceable, and because it was the first of its kind to be passed in the United States.\n\nIllinois is the second state to adopt a homeless bill of rights. The measure, SB 1210, was passed in May 2013 by the Illinois General Assembly and immediately went into effect after being signed by Governor Pat Quinn on August 22 of that year.\nThe Illinois implementation of the Homeless Bill of Rights was significant because it included the ability to maintain employment as a right that unhoused individuals could claim. Many people struggling with homelessness also face employment discrimination, which makes it more difficult for them to attain financial and housing security. The Illinois law is also noteworthy because it allows plaintiffs to recover monetary damages and attorney's fees should their rights be infringed upon, something that is not covered in the Connecticut legislation.\n\nOn June 5, the Connecticut Assembly passed a Homeless Bill of Rights (SB 896) with seven protections similar to those passed in Rhode Island. After it was signed by Governor Dan Malloy, the bill took effect on October 1, 2013. The Connecticut law significantly includes freedom from police harassment in its first section.\nLaws in cities throughout Connecticut prohibit a person without a bed from sleeping on a park bench, ban someone without a place to be during the day from standing in a public plaza, and restrict the ability of a person without access to food to ask for money to buy something to eat. The Homeless Bill of Rights proposed in this state does not address the right of unhoused individuals to panhandle in public spaces. However, it does widen its scope of impact by guaranteeing rights for both individuals who are currently experiencing homelessness and those on the cusp of it. By including hidden homeless and housing insecure individuals, this state's Bill of Rights more broadly guarantees the rights of the homeless population than the laws passed in Rhode Island and Illinois.\n\nState Assemblymember Tom Ammiano (D-San Francisco) introduced a Homeless Person's Bill of Rights to the California Assembly in December 2012. In May 2013, the Appropriations Committee postponed debate until January 2014. Assemblymember Ammiano said in a statement that his bill was suspended largely because of the costs of setting up new infrastructure and enforcing the new rules. A report by the Chair of the Assembly Appropriations Committee estimates that setting up hygiene centers across the state would cost $216 million, with ongoing operating costs of $81 million annually. The report also estimates that setting up facilities for annual law enforcement reports would cost $8.2 million, with ongoing operating costs of $4.1 million annually. Without providing estimates, the report notes that other costs, some potentially significant, include those associated with the right to counsel conferred to the homeless for defending against infractions, and those associated with defending against lawsuits brought against cities by the homeless alleging violations of rights conveyed under the bill.\n\nCalifornia's Homeless Bill of Rights(Right2Rest Act), SB 608, was introduced by Senator Carol Liu (D) in February 2015. The \"Right to Rest Act,\" would, among other things, protect the rights of homeless people to move freely, rest, eat, perform religious observations in public space as well as protect their right to occupy a legally parked motor vehicle. Also refer to UC Berkeley's Policy Advocacy Clinic Presents: California's New Vagrancy Laws a New Report on the Growing Criminalzation of Homeless People in California.\n\nA vote was not rendered during the 2015 process in the Housing and Transportation Committee and was asked to come back for a vote in the next California legislation session with amendments in order to get the necessary votes and pass to the next house.\n\nThe Colorado Right-to-Rest Act, known as HB-1284, was proposed to the State Legislature in 2015. Like the bill proposed in California, HB-1284 seeks to protect the rights of unhoused individuals to move without fear of harassment, sleep, eat and share food, engage in religious practices, and occupy a legally parked vehicle in public spaces. Like all the Homeless Bills of Rights proposed before it, this legislation does not guarantee the rights of unhoused individuals to obtain safe shelter. The bill is currently under consideration by the Colorado State Senate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2677374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2677374", "title": "Joseph H. H. Weiler", "text": "Joseph H. H. Weiler\n\nJoseph Halevi Horowitz Weiler (born 2 September 1951) is a South African-American academic, currently serving as European Union Jean Monnet Chair at New York University Law School and Senior Fellow of the Minda de Gunzburg Center for European Studies, Harvard. \n\nHe was President of the European University Institute in Florence from 2013 until 2016. He holds a diploma from the Hague Academy of International Law. Weiler is the author of works relating to the sui generis character of the European Union. He is a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. On 7 December 2012 the European University Institute's High Council approved his selection as the European University Institute's new President. He started his term on 1 September 2013 and served through 31 August 2016.\n\nHe holds degrees from Sussex (BA); Cambridge (LLB and LLM) and The Hague Academy of International Law (Diploma of International Law); he earned his PhD in European Law at the EUI, Florence. He is recipient of Doctorates Honoris Causa from London University, Sussex University, the University of Macerata, the University of Navarra, the University of Ljubljana, University of Edinburgh, CEU San Pablo University - Madrid, Humboldt University of Berlin, Roma Tre University, Democritus University of Thrace - Greece, University of Bucharest, the Catholic University of America and the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens.\n\nFrom 1978 to 1985 he was member of the Department of Law at the European University Institute, Florence, where in 1989 he was co-founder of its Academy of European Law. He later served as Professor of Law at the University of Michigan Law School (1985–1992) and as Manley Hudson Professor and Jean Monnet Chair at Harvard Law School (1992–2001).\n\nHe is Visiting Professor at, among others, the University of Paris, the Institut d'Etudes Politiques de Paris (Sciences Po), the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, the Max Planck Institute for International Law at Heidelberg, the College of Europe in Bruges and Natolin, All Souls College, Oxford, Chicago Law School, Stanford Law School, Yale Law School, the Ortega y Gasset Institute, Madrid, the University of Toronto, the University of Frankfurt, the University of Ljubljana and Católica Global School of Law.\n\nOne of the topics of his specific interest is the influence of (Christian) church on European integration. He coined the term \"Christophobia\" in his book \"A Christian Europe: An Exploratory Essay\": \n\nThe term was then popularized by George Weigel's \"The Cube and the Cathedral\". \n\nWeiler contributes to the legal theory of European integration, he writes on many areas of EU law (internal market, external relations, social law, and above all, institutional law). He is a particular authority on the role of the European Court of Justice. He is the Editor-in-chief of the \"European Journal of International Law\" (EJIL) and the \"International Journal of Constitutional Law\" (I•CON).\n\nWeiler was a defendant in a criminal libel action brought in the French courts by Israeli scholar Dr Karin Calvo-Goller concerning a review of her book \"The Trial Proceedings of the International Criminal Court. ICTY and ICTR Precedents\" (Martinus Nijhoff, 2006) that appeared on the Global Law Books website which Weiler edits. The review was written by Professor Thomas Weigend of the University of Cologne. Calvo-Goller contended that it was libelous. Upon complaint by Calvo-Goller, Weiler declined to remove the review from the website and Calvo-Goller subsequently filed suit.\n\nThe suit was notable for the issues that it raised concerning the balance between academic freedom and the rights of those who consider themselves to have been libeled.\n\nThe Dean of the Investigating Judges of Paris accepted Calvo-Goller's complaint and the District Attorney decided to bring suit against Weiler. The case was heard by the Tribunal de Grand Instance de Paris on January 20, 2011, with the verdict handed down in Paris on March 3, 2011, dismissing the lawsuit. In its verdict, the Paris Tribunal said it had no jurisdiction in the case since Calvo-Goller did not bring proof by a court-appointed clerk that the book review website was visible in French territory the day or before the day she brought the case to the dean of the investigating judges in Paris. The Paris Tribunal also declared that the words used by Weigend did not constitute \"libel\" and were within the limits of \"free critical book review speech\". The court said his words in the review were \"measured\", and the court therefore dismissed the case. The court ordered Calvo-Goller to pay 8,000 euros (around US$10,000 ) in damages to Dr Weiler to cover his expenses.\n\nIn June 2010 Weiler intervened \"pro bono\" on behalf of eight governments before the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights in the case \"Lautsi v. Italy\". He was defending Italy's right to require the crucifix to be displayed in public school classrooms. Reversing the unanimous (7:0) decision of the lower Chamber, the Grand Chamber ruled by a large majority (15:2) that the display of crucifixes in Italian classrooms does not contravene the European Convention of Human Rights.\n\nIn an interview Weiler stated that he was intervening on behalf of Italy not because he wanted to defend Christianity but to defend pluralism.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47160978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47160978", "title": "Ken Duncan (politician)", "text": "Ken Duncan (politician)\n\nKenneth Addison Duncan (born August 23, 1945) is an American Democratic lawyer from Baton Rouge, who from 1996 to 2000 served a single term as the elected Louisiana state treasurer. He was unseated in the 1999 primary election by fellow Democrat, later Republican, John Kennedy, now the state's junior U.S. senator.\n\nDuncan was reared and educated in the public schools of Bossier City but later moved to Monroe, where he graduated in 1963 from Neville High School. Duncan received a Juris Doctorate from Louisiana State University Law Center in Baton Rouge and was admitted to the bar in 1971. He received a Master of Laws in taxation from Georgetown University Law Center in Washington, D.C. Since 1978, he has headed Duncan & Associates in Baton Rouge, a firm of law, business entrepreneurship, and public service.\n\nWhen he announced for treasurer, Duncan owned Savant Insurance Services. He is a co-founder of the Democratic Leadership Council, an organization originally associated with former U.S. President Bill Clinton. He promised if elected to act as the chief executive officer of the state and to stop fraud in the popular food stamp program.\n\nIn his initial election as treasurer to succeed Democrat Mary Landrieu, who ran unsuccessfully for governor of Louisiana in 1995, Duncan with 448,182 votes (34.9 percent) led a four candidate field of two Republicans, Mary Chehardy and Gayle Joseph, and his fellow Democrat Steve Theriot, who ran second with 372,500 votes (29 percent). Chehardy and Joseph finished with 335,463 (26.1 percent) and 128,272 (10 percent), respectively. In the second balloting, called the general election in Louisiana though both candidates were Democrats, Duncan defeated Theriot, a departing state representative from Jefferson Parish, 798,280 (56.7 percent) to 610,964 (43.4 percent).\n\nDuncan is a former chairman, general counsel, and executive director of the National Association of Democratic State Treasurers. In 1999, Duncan announced the establishment of the Louisiana State Investment Task Force composed of officials from the four largest state pension funds, state employees, teachers, other school employees, and Louisiana State Police, all based in Baton Rouge. The task force was charged with studying economically-targeted in-state investments. As treasurer, Duncan was also the chairman of the Louisiana Bond Commission, which reviews and approves all state and local issuances of bonds. Early in his tenure as treasurer, Duncan sought the refunding of as much as $610 million of state general obligation bonds that was expected to save the state $30 million.\n\nJohn Kennedy, no relations to the Kennedys of Massachusetts, unseated Duncan, 621,796 (55.6 percent) to 497,319 (44.4 percent). Kennedy remains the state treasurer and is expected to be a candidate for a fifth term in the nonpartisan blanket primary set for October 24, 2015.\n\nDuncan was a delegate to both the 1996 and the 2000 Democratic National Conventions, which confirmed the Clinton-Gore and Gore-Lieberman tickets. He is a co-founder and member of the Louisiana Democratic Leadership Council.\n\nDuncan and his wife, the former Margie Dumestie, have three daughters, Ashley, Laura-Lucia, and Kristin. He is Episcopalian.\n"}
{"id": "7723577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7723577", "title": "Kenya Law Reports", "text": "Kenya Law Reports\n\nThe Kenya Law Reports are the official law reports of the Republic of Kenya which may be cited in proceedings in all courts of Kenya (section 21 of the Act). The enactment of the National Council for Law Reporting Act arose from the need to bridge the gap that existed in official law reporting and to institutionalize law reporting within Kenya's government structure. The Council was established on 20 May 1996 under the chairmanship of Abdul Majid Cockar, then Chief Justice. The first volume of the re-launched Kenya Law Reports, the [1981] KLR, was released on 11 January 2002. The Council has published 11 years of this backlog (1981–1991) and simultaneously published law reports for years (2001–2004). In 2006, the Council commenced the publication of specialized law reports that presented the varied subjects of law, beginning with Environment and Land Law reports.\n"}
{"id": "180457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=180457", "title": "Keygen", "text": "Keygen\n\nA key generator (key-gen) is a computer program that generates a product licensing key, such as a serial number, necessary to activate for use of a software application. Keygens may be legitimately distributed by software manufacturers for licensing software in commercial environments where software has been licensed in bulk for an entire site or enterprise, or they may be distributed illegitimately in circumstances of copyright infringement or software piracy. Illegitimate key generators are typically distributed by software crackers in the warez scene and demoscene. These keygens often play \"Keygen music\", which may include the genres dubstep or chiptunes in the background and have artistic user interfaces.\n\nA software license is a legal instrument that governs the usage and distribution of computer software. Often, such licenses are enforced by implementing in the software a product activation or digital rights management (DRM) mechanism, seeking to prevent unauthorized use of the software by issuing a code sequence that must be entered into the application when prompted or stored in its configuration.\n\nMany programs attempt to verify or validate licensing keys over the Internet by establishing a session with a licensing application of the software publisher. Advanced keygens bypass this mechanism, and include additional features for key verification, for example by generating the validation data which would otherwise be returned by an activation server. If the software offers phone activation then the keygen could generate the correct activation code to finish activation. Another method that has been used is activation server emulation, this patches the program memory to use the keygen as activation server.\n\nA multi-keygen is a keygen that offers key generation for multiple software applications. Multi-keygens are sometimes released over singular keygens if a series of products requires the same algorithm for generating product keys. In this case, only a single value encoded within the key has to be changed in order to target a different product.\n\nUnauthorised keygens that typically violate software licensing terms are written by programmers who engage in reverse engineering and software cracking, often called \"crackers\", to circumvent copy protection of software or digital rights management for multimedia.\n\nKeygens are available for download on warez sites or through peer-to-peer (P2P) networks.\n\nMany unauthorised keygens, available through P2P networks or otherwise, contain malicious payloads. These key generators may or may not generate a valid key, but the embedded malware loaded invisibly at the same time may, for example, be a version of CryptoLocker (ransomware).\n\nAntivirus software may discover malware embedded in keygens; such software often also identifies unauthorised keygens which do not contain a payload as potentially unwanted software, often labelling them with a name such as Win32/Keygen or Win32/Gendows.\n\nA key changer or keychan is a variation of a keygen. A keychan is a small piece of software that changes the license key or serial number of a particular piece of proprietary software installed on a computer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2854806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2854806", "title": "List of Acts of the Oireachtas", "text": "List of Acts of the Oireachtas\n\nThis is a list of Acts of the Oireachtas (Irish parliament) for the years 1922 to present.\n\nNote: In the lists below, unless otherwise stated, all Acts are Public Acts.\n\n\n\n\nPrivate Acts\n\n\nPrivate Acts\n\n\nPrivate Acts\n\n\nPrivate Acts\n\n\nPrivate Acts\n\n\nPrivate Acts\n\n\nPrivate Acts\n\n\nPrivate Acts\n\n\nPrivate Acts\n\n\nPrivate Acts\n\n\n\nPrivate Acts\n\n\nPrivate Acts\n\n\nPrivate Acts\n\n\nPrivate Acts\n\n\nConstitutional Amendments\n\n\nPrivate Acts\n\n\nPrivate Acts\n\nConstitutional Amendments\n\n\n\n\nPrivate Acts\n\n\nPrivate Acts\n\n\n\n\n\n\nPrivate Acts\n\n\nPrivate Acts\n\n\n\nPrivate Acts\n\n\nPrivate Acts\n\n\nPrivate Acts\n\n\n\nPrivate Acts\n\n\nPrivate Acts\n\n\nPrivate Acts\n\n\nPrivate Acts\n\n\nPrivate Acts\n\n\n\nPrivate Acts\n\n\nPrivate Acts\n\n\nPrivate Acts\n\n\nPrivate Acts\n\n\n\n\nPrivate Acts\n\n\nPrivate Acts\n\n\n\nConstitutional Amendments\n\n\n\nPrivate Acts\n\n\n\nPrivate Acts\n\n\n\n\nPrivate Acts\n\nConstitutional Amendments\n\n\n\n\n\nConstitutional Amendments\n\n\nConstitutional Amendments\n\n\n\n\nConstitutional Amendments\n\n\n\nPrivate Acts\n\n\n\n\nPrivate Acts\n\nConstitutional Amendments\n\n\nPrivate Acts\n\n\n\nConstitutional Amendments\n\n\nConstitutional Amendments\n\n\nConstitutional Amendments\n\n\nConstitutional Amendments\n\n\nConstitutional Amendments\n\n\nPrivate Acts\n\n\nConstitutional Amendments\n\n\nConstitutional Amendments\n\n\nPrivate Acts\n\n\nConstitutional Amendments\n\n\n\n\n\n\nConstitutional Amendments\n\n\n\nConstitutional Amendments\n\n\nConstitutional Amendments\n\n\nConstitutional Amendments\n\n\n\nConstitutional Amendments\n\n\n\n\nConstitutional Amendments\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3381901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3381901", "title": "List of areas of law", "text": "List of areas of law\n\nThe following is a list of major areas of legal practice and important legal subject-matters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36627564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36627564", "title": "Mahkamah Mosque", "text": "Mahkamah Mosque\n\nThe Mahkamah Mosque (also known as Mosque of Birdibak or Madrasa of Amir Bardabak; Arabic transliteration: \"Jāmi' al-Mahkamah al-Birdibakiyyah\") is a congregational mosque and \"madrasa\", built in 1455. It was destroyed by Israeli bombing during the attack on Gaza in 2014. The mosque was located along Baghdad Street near the main western entrance of the Shuja'iyya district in Gaza City, Palestine.\n\nThe mosque was built in 1455 on the orders of Sayf al-Din Birdibak al-Ashrafi, the \"dawadar\" of the Mamluk sultan Sayf al-Din Inal. Birdibak was highly religious and convened an annual conference to discuss the hadith of the 9th-century Muslim scholar Muhammad al-Bukhari. He reached high positions within the Mamluk state and built two other Friday mosques in Damascus and Cairo. The Mahkamah Mosque was originally part of a \"madrasa\" (\"religious school\"), and education served as the building's principal function. Prayers were also held regularly and on Fridays.\n\nDuring Ottoman rule between the 16th and early 20th centuries, the school functioned as a courthouse for the city's \"qadis\" (\"judges\"), hence its Arabic name \"al-Mahkamah\" (\"the Court.\") In the late 19th-century Swiss scholar Max van Berchem found a Kufic inscription fixed over the \"mihrab\" (\"pulpit\") of the mosque that belonged to the tombstone of Muhammad ibn al-Abbas al-Hashimi, a member of the Hashemite family who had died in Gaza in the late 9th-century. On top of the mosque's entrance is the foundation inscription crediting Birdibak for the mosque's construction and honoring Sultan Inal.\n\nDuring the British Mandate period following World War I it served as boy's religious school under the name Madrasa al-Shuja‘iyya al-Amiriyya. The mosque was destroyed by the Israeli airforce in Operation \"Protective Edge\".\n\nThe mosque was constructed in the Burji Mamluk style. It serves as a unique example of Mamluk architecture, having been highly influenced by earlier Ayyubid mosque-madrasas. In particular, the niches of the northern facade strongly resemble the architectural elements of Ayyubid structures in Egypt and Syria. The complex consists of a central \"sahn\" (\"courtyard\") situated 1.2 meters below street level. There are several ablution places in the courtyard area.\n\nNorth of the courtyard is the facade where the main entrance is located. The entrance portal is topped by a pointed arch with floral decorations. The northern part of the mosque consists of the entrance hall and three other rectangular-shaped rooms each measuring 3.77 meters by 3.69 meters. Each room, including the entrance hall, is topped by a small dome. The southern part of the complex was laid out in a similar manner, but is in ruins. The rooms on both sides of the mosque served as lodging for the sheikh and his students and provided other services as well. This particular layout makes the Mahkamah Mosque the only \"madrasa\" of its kind still standing in Gaza.\n\nThe courtyard is bordered to the southwest by the \"iwan\". The \"iwan\" is divided into three sections and is the largest part of the mosque complex. The central portion serves as the principal section and is covered by a fan-shaped cross vault. It contains the \"mihrab\" (\"niche\" that indicates the \"qibla\" which is the direction towards Mecca) and the \"minbar\" (\"pulpit\"). The \"minbar\" is adorned with marble paneling, floral motifs and Qur'anic inscriptions. The main section is bordered by two smaller outer sections with barrel vaulting and pointed arches connecting both structures with the main section. In the northwest, a smaller Mamluk-era \"iwan\" that previously faced the main \"iwan\" is extant. The western facade is mostly in ruins as well.\n\nIn the northwestern corner of the mosque is the Mamluk-style minaret. The base of the minaret is rectangular, while the shaft is composed of two octagonal stories topped by the octagonal muezzin's gallery. The sides of the base contain niches that \"alleviate the austerity of the structure\" according to Islamic art researcher Mu'en Sadeq. The octagonal levels of the minaret's body are designed with embrasures decorated with translucent floral and geometric ornamentation. The embrasures allow light and ventilation into the interior spiral staircase that leads to the muezzin's gallery which rests on stone muqarnas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50761203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50761203", "title": "Mario Fernández Baeza", "text": "Mario Fernández Baeza\n\nMario Adolfo del Carmen Fernández Baeza (born 22 November 1947 in Rancagua) is a Chilean lawyer, professor and politician, member of the Christian Democratic Party. He served as the Minister of the Interior and Public Security in Michelle Bachelet's second term.\n\nPreviously he served as Minister of State of president Ricardo Lagos, minister of the Chilean Constitutional Court (2006-2011), and ambassador of Chile to Germany, Austria, and Uruguay.\n\nHe studied in the Public School Nª 3 and the Liceo de Hombres, both in his native town. He was secretary and vice-president of the Students Centre of his school, and its delegate in two National Congresses of Secondary Students. He also was member of the Youth of Catholic Students.\n\nLater he studied in the Universidad de Chile Law School in Valparaíso, between 1967 and 1969, when he moved to the Law School in Santiago. He got a grade in Juridical and Social Sciences in 1975. Afterwards he earned doctorates in political science, history, international right public and philosophy from Heidelberg University, Germany.\n\nHe has been Law professor in the Diego Portales University, Pontifical Catholic University of Chile and University of Chile, among others.\n\nHe joined the Christian Democrat Party in 1966. He served as undersecretary of Aviation and War during the governments of the presidents Patricio Aylwin and Eduardo Frei Ruiz-Tagle (1990-1993, 1994-1995 and 1996-1999).\nIn 2000 he was appointed by president Ricardo Lagos as minister of National Defence, until 2002, when a cabinet reshuffle assigned the Ministry to Michelle Bachelet, and Fernández was named Minister General Secretariat of the Presidency (2002-2003). Later he was designated ambassador to Germany.\n\nOn 13 December 2005, the Senate appointed him minister of the Constitutional Court of Chile, starting on 1 January 2006. He resigned on 31 March 2011, to join the consulting firm Latinus and restart his teaching classes in different universities.\n\nIn 2014 he assumed, in the second term of Michelle Bachelet, as ambassador to Germany, being reassigned in mid-2015 to Uruguay. On 8 June 2016, president Bachelet appointed him as minister of the Interior and Public Security, in replacement of the renounced Jorge Burgos.\n\nFernández is an Opus Dei member.\n\n"}
{"id": "3218679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3218679", "title": "Martin Tankleff", "text": "Martin Tankleff\n\nMartin H. \"Marty\" Tankleff (born August 29, 1971) is a Long Island, New York, resident who was convicted of murdering his wealthy parents, Seymour and Arlene Tankleff, on September 7, 1988, when he was 17 years old. After serving more than 17 years of imprisonment, his conviction was vacated and he was released from prison in 2007.\n\nTankleff was admitted to the New York State Department of Correctional Services in October 1990. In State custody, Tankleff was incarcerated at the Clinton Correctional Facility in Dannemora, New York, in a special housing unit called \"APPU\" for high-profile inmates and inmates at high risk of victimization.\n\nTankleff was convicted of killing his parents, Seymour and Arlene Tankleff, on June 28, 1990 and sentenced to two consecutive terms of 25 years to life in prison. A 2003 appeal, however, presented new evidence from 20 witnesses, and an appellate court ultimately overturned his conviction after Tankleff served 17 years in prison. Tankleff was represented by attorney Barry Pollack. \n\nBefore the Suffolk County District Attorney dropped the charges, New York Governor Eliot Spitzer appointed New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo as special prosecutor in the case. From his staff, Cuomo selected Chief Trial Counsel, Benjamin Rosenberg, and veteran homicide prosecutor, Thomas Schellhammer, to reinvestigate the case. On June 16, 2008, Rosenberg announced the results of the Attorney General's investigation. \"The issue in this case is not whether there is evidence,\" he said to Justice Doyle, \"but whether there is sufficient evidence.\" Rosenberg then announced: \"The people move to dismiss the indictment.\" In the same motion, prosecutors announced they would not proceed against suspects identified by Tankleff's defense team, revealing that, \"on balance, the defense theory does not appear to be supported by clear evidence.\" \n\nOn July 22, 2008, Justice Doyle concurred with the Attorney General's motion to dismiss. All charges facing Tankleff were dropped; he would not face retrial.\n\nThe incident and subsequent trials were the subject of \"A Criminal Injustice: A True Crime, a False Confession, and the Fight to Free Marty Tankleff\", published by Ballantine Books in 2008.\n\nOn January 7, 2014, Tankleff was awarded $3.4 million from the state after settling his wrongful conviction lawsuit. Tankleff graduated from law school at Touro Law Center on May 25, 2014. On April 2017, he passed the New York State bar exam. \n\nTankleff and his attorneys appeared before the U.S. District Court, the Eastern District of New York in Central Islip, New York for a hearing on October 30, 2017. He sued Suffolk County, in addition to various people who were police and county employees at the time of his arrest and trial. Tankleff was represented by Barry Scheck of Innocence Project in Manhattan. In April 2018, Tankleff reached a settlement with Suffolk County for $10 million.\n\n"}
{"id": "4149880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4149880", "title": "NatWest Three", "text": "NatWest Three\n\nThe NatWest Three, also known as the Enron Three, are three British businessmen – Giles Darby, David Bermingham and Gary Mulgrew. In 2002 they were indicted in Houston, Texas on seven counts of wire fraud against their former employer Greenwich NatWest, at the time a division of National Westminster Bank.\n\nAfter a high-profile battle in the British courts they were extradited from the United Kingdom to the United States in 2006. On 28 November 2007, each pleaded guilty to one count of wire fraud in exchange for the other charges being dropped. On 22 February 2008 they were each sentenced to 37 months in prison. Initially they were jailed in the US, but were later repatriated to UK prisons to serve out the rest of their sentences and released from custody in August 2010.\n\nIn the year 2000 the three had been working for Greenwich NatWest, then a unit of National Westminster Bank, later acquired by Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS). The three were involved in Greenwich NatWest's dealings with Enron Corporation. As a result of these dealings NatWest owned a stake in a Cayman Islands-registered partnership called Swap Sub.\n\nSwap Sub was a special purpose entity created by Andrew Fastow, Enron's CFO, ostensibly for the purpose of hedging Enron's investment in Rhythms NetConnections, an internet service provider. Swap Sub's assets consisted of cash and Enron stock. Its liability was an option giving Enron the ability to require it to buy Enron's entire investment in Rhythms NetConnections at a predetermined price in 2004. In addition to NatWest, Credit Suisse First Boston held an equal stake in Swap Sub. The remainder was owned by a partnership managed by Fastow.\n\nIn March 2000, Enron decided to terminate the hedging arrangement with Swap Sub. Fastow managed to persuade Enron to pay Swap Sub a $30 million fee to terminate the option and recover the Enron stock it owned, even though, because of a decline in the price of the Rhythms stock, \"Swap Sub owed Enron a ton of money\". $10 million of the payment went to Credit Suisse First Boston; Fastow falsely claimed to Enron that the other $20 million would go to NatWest, but in fact only $1 million did so. The payment, which was formally agreed on 22 March 2000, resulted in large profits for Swap Sub, enriching several Enron employees who had acquired ownership interests in the partnership.\n\nAccording to the Statement of Facts which was signed by all three defendants as part of their eventual plea bargain, the Three realized in early 2000 that, because of rises in the stock prices of Enron and Rhythms, NatWest's interest in Swap Sub \"had quite some value\". On 22 February of that year, the three bankers made a presentation to Enron CFO Andrew Fastow suggesting ways in which this value could be captured; however, Fastow ultimately rejected this proposal.\n\nShortly afterwards, Fastow contacted Gary Mulgrew in late February or early March 2000 and offered to purchase NatWest's interest in Swap Sub. He also offered Mulgrew what is described in the Statement of Facts as \"an unspecified financial opportunity\" if he were to leave NatWest. Mulgrew discussed this conversation with Darby and Bermingham. On 6 March 2000, Fastow's assistant Michael Kopper contacted Darby with a formal proposal that a company Kopper controlled should purchase NatWest's stake in Swap Sub for $1 million. Mulgrew and Darby subsequently recommended to their superiors that NatWest should accept this offer.\n\nLater that month, the three bankers learned that the \"unspecified financial opportunity\" which had been mentioned to Mulgrew involved their personally acquiring a portion of NatWest's stake in Swap Sub. In furtherance of this, Kopper set up a deal for the Three to acquire a put option on half of NatWest's former stake in the company. On 17 March, Darby collected the signatures needed to finalize the NatWest sale. On 20 March the Three executed the option agreement with Kopper. The Three concealed both their dealings with Fastow and Kopper, and the fact that they now had a financial interest in the company that bought Swap Sub, from their superiors at NatWest.\n\nAccording to the Statement of Facts, the Three were unaware of the 22 March agreement to pay $30 million to Swap Sub. On 21 April 2000, Bermingham, who had resigned from NatWest in the meantime, exercised the options, resulting in a profit of more than $7 million. He subsequently split the proceeds with Darby and Mulgrew.\n\nIn November 2001 the three bankers, having now moved to work at Royal Bank of Canada, learned that the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) was investigating Fastow, voluntarily met with the British Financial Services Authority (FSA) to discuss the deal. According to their own account, the Three initiated this meeting in order to \"ensure transparency\". Bermingham later claimed that \"[w]e gave [the FSA] everything because we thought we had nothing to hide.\"\n\nIn February 2002 the FSA completed its inquiries without taking any action. It later emerged that the FSA had passed the results of its investigation to the SEC, which had in turn passed them on to the prosecutors in the US Department of Justice. According to a report in \"The Times\" the FSA report was so detailed that it told the SEC whom to interview and what evidence would be needed to secure a conviction, and concluded that \"there appears to be evidence that the three individuals were subject to a major conflict of interest\".\n\nUS arrest warrants for the Three were issued in June 2002. They were indicted by a grand jury in Houston, Texas in September of the same year on seven counts of wire fraud. The warrants were among the first issued by Enron prosecutors and media reports speculated that their main purpose was to induce the Three into a plea bargain whereby they would testify against Kopper and Fastow (seen as more important prosecution targets) in exchange for reduced sentences.\n\nDuring the long delay caused by the decision of the Three to fight extradition, however, Kopper and Fastow both pleaded guilty and entered into plea bargains themselves. Thus, in an ironic turn of events, Kopper and Fastow were likely to have been the key prosecution witnesses against the Three if the case had gone to trial.\n\nThe indictment set out seven counts of wire fraud, each one corresponding to a document (fax, email or wire transfer) that was transmitted electronically in the United States in furtherance of the alleged fraudulent scheme. In addition to the facts agreed to as part of the eventual plea bargain, the indictment alleged that the Three knew, at the time they recommended the sale of Swap Sub to NatWest, that its value was significantly greater than $1 million, and that the 22 February presentation to Fastow was part of the fraudulent scheme. Although Enron officials were involved, the indictment did not allege that Enron Corporation itself was a victim of the scheme, or that the Three's activities had any connection to Enron's collapse.\n\nThe evidence against the NatWest Three included preparations for the 22 February presentation, which contained the phrase\n\nProblem is that it is too obvious (to both Enron and LPs) what is happening (ie, robbery of LPs), so probably not attractive. Also no certainty of making money ...\n\nProsecutors alleged that the use of the word \"robbery\" in the presentation showed that the Three knew that they were planning to commit a crime, Prosecutors pointed to the discrepancy between the $1 million accepted by NatWest, and the $10 million accepted by Credit Suisse First Boston for their equal stakes in Swap Sub.\n\nUS prosecutors began to pursue proceedings in what they expected to be a \"routine\" extradition in the summer of 2002. The Three were arrested in Britain on 23 April 2004 and extradition proceedings under the Extradition Act 2003 commenced in June of that year amid widespread controversy.\n\nIn September 2004 a judge at Bow Street Magistrates' Court ruled that the extradition could proceed. The Three responded by suing Britain's Serious Fraud Office (SFO) in the High Court of Justice, seeking judicial review to force a prosecution in the UK which would have taken precedence over the US investigation. Bermingham commented to the press that \"I cannot imagine anyone has taken the SFO to court for not prosecuting them before\".\n\nIn response the SFO issued a statement defending its decision to defer to prosecutors in the US: \n\nAfter a significant delay, the extradition was endorsed by Home Secretary Charles Clarke in May 2005. The Three appealed this decision also in the High Court. On 20 February 2006 both the appeal against extradition and the suit to force the SFO to prosecute (which were consolidated into one case) were rejected by the High Court. The bankers appealed further to the House of Lords, but this appeal failed on 21 June 2006. On 27 June 2006 the three lost an appeal to the European Court of Human Rights. There were then rumours in the UK press that the British government would support their case but this was rejected by Attorney General Lord Goldsmith on 7 July 2006.\n\nAfter all legal avenues of appeal against extradition had been exhausted, the Three arrived in Houston on 13 July 2006 and were taken to the Federal Detention Center there. The next day they were released into the custody of their attorney and ordered to wear electronic monitoring devices. On 21 July a judge ruled that the Three could go free on bond but could not leave the Houston area, could not meet with each other without their lawyers present and must raise between $80,000 and $150,000 by the end of the month. US immigration services gave them permission to accept employment in the US for a period of one year: however the judge did not give them permission to travel throughout the US in order to seek work.\n\nOn 2 August 2006 the trial date was delayed indefinitely from 13 September 2006, in order to allow two of the Three to secure legal representation. On 9 August 2006 the legal situation of the Three was complicated by subpoenas served on them in an Enron-related civil suit against Royal Bank of Canada. On 12 August 2006 all three informed the judge that they had retained attorneys.\n\nOn 6 September 2006, the trial date was set for February 2007 if witnesses could be obtained in time, failing that for 4 September 2007. Until that time the Three were required to wear monitoring devices and were forbidden from leaving the Houston area. On 1 August 2007, the trial date was moved back yet again to January 2008. This was following another earlier postponement to 22 October. This further delay was a significant blow to the three, and their supporters stressed again the problems they were facing with the scale of legal fees and further separation from their families in the UK.\n\nOn 6 August 2007, the Three asked the judge in the case to order six former colleagues living in Britain to provide video testimony for their defence. In a court filing explaining this request, they alleged that \"[s]everal individuals now refuse to travel to the United States to appear on defendants' behalf because they feel, or have been, threatened by the [US] government\". Such a request would have required the co-operation of British authorities.\n\nThe Three's filing also claimed that Royal Bank of Scotland was obstructing attempts to contact a larger group of thirty-six employees who were also potential witnesses, claiming that \"[t]he Royal Bank of Scotland and the Royal Bank of Canada have… taken steps to prevent Defendants from securing the testimony of former colleagues\", and that \"counsel for the purported victim in this case [RBS] has interfered with the ability of defence counsel to obtain relevant testimony\". They concluded that the Three's ability \"to mount a vigorous defence has thereby been severely compromised, if not eviscerated\". The Three went so far as to publicly name the prospective witnesses in the hope that that would encourage some of them to speak out.\n\nOn 28 November 2007, the three accepted a plea bargain, pleading guilty to one count of wire fraud. In exchange, prosecutors agreed to drop the other six counts, and to support the application by the Three to serve part of their sentences in the United Kingdom. In the plea agreement, the Three pleaded guilty to count four of the indictment, relating to the email from London to Houston of the final Swap Sub sale documents. A \"statement of facts\" was appended to the plea agreement as Exhibit A and was signed by all three defendants.\n\nProsecutor Alice Fisher stated, \"[t]hese three defendants admitted today that they defrauded NatWest by entering into a secret and illegal deal with officers from Enron – a deal that yielded millions in profits for them personally at the expense of their employer\". However, an article in \"The Daily Telegraph\" argued that the guilty pleas were motivated not by actual guilt, but rather by the prospect of further delays before the trial and possible 35-year sentences if convicted. Other British commentators agreed that this was a possibility. The \"Telegraph\" piece went on to claim that the statement of facts did not state that the Three knowingly defrauded NatWest. The original indictment alleged that the Three knew that NatWest's stake was worth far more than the $1 million it was being sold for; the statement of facts claimed only that bankers believed it was likely that they would make significant amounts of money as a result of the transaction, based on information that they concealed from their employer.\n\nIn August 2010 Bermingham and Mulgrew appeared in a video on ungagged.net, a site devoted to attacking the US Department of Justice's handling of the Enron collapse. In the video David Bermingham recanted his guilty plea, and both he and Mulgrew claimed that they had been pressured into accepting plea bargains, attacking the US judicial system and characterising their treatment as \"torture\". Giles Darby said that he \"fundamentally\" disagreed with the claims made by Bermingham and Mulgrew in the video.\n\nThe NatWest Three were sentenced on 22 February 2008 to 37 months of imprisonment. They were given no remission for the time they had spent in the United States awaiting trial. They were also required to repay $7.3 million to Royal Bank of Scotland, the successor bank to Greenwich NatWest, of which $1.25 million would be due when the men surrendered themselves to prison authorities. During sentencing, the three each made brief statements to the judge. Mulgrew said that he had shown a \"lack of integrity\" and \"exercised poor judgement\", concluding that \"I have no one to blame but myself\". Darby admitted that he was \"wrong\", and said \"I deeply regret my involvement in this whole affair.\"\n\nDarby's lawyer stated that \"Andy Fastow and the culture of greed at Enron corrupted everybody and everything it came in contact with\", and added that the Three \"are as much victims as anybody else.\" The Three requested to be assigned to the low-security federal prison in Allenwood, Pennsylvania. In April 2008, each was assigned to a different prison: Mulgrew was ordered to surrender to the facility in Big Spring, Texas on 30 April; Giles Darby to the Allenwood facility on 7 May; and David Bermingham to the prison in Lompoc, California, on 9 May.\n\nMulgrew, Darby and Bermingham were assigned consecutive federal inmate numbers (66096-179, 66097-179 and 66098-179 respectively). They were later allowed to serve the remainder of their sentence in England. Bermingham was moved from Spring Hill Open Prison to a closed prison in Grendon Underwood in August 2009. The three were released in August 2010.\n\nPress coverage of the Three in Britain was initially mostly negative, focusing on the amount of money the men had gained and their extravagant lifestyles.\n\nFor example, \"The Independent\" wrote that the men saw themselves as \"womanising buccanneers who played as hard and as fast as they pursued their deals\", and \"The Sunday Times\" described Mulgrew as \"fiercely competitive\" with \"a massive ego\" and \"scars on his arms\" from his former career as a nightclub bouncer. The tone of the reporting changed when the Three secured the services of Bell Yard Communications, a public relations firm which specialised in \"public reputation management during times of corporate crisis or dispute\", headed by Melanie Riley. Adrian Flook of was also involved. Both firms claimed to be working \"pro bono\". Riley said that \"I have been working pro bono for the last six months because I believe in the case. We have worked hard to ensure that people understood the inequity of the Extradition Act.\"\n\n\"Guardian\" journalist Nick Davies, in his book \"Flat Earth News\", described the strategy adopted by Bell Yard: \nDavies later recounted the reaction of the press:\n\nRiley summed up her strategy as follows: \n\nM: Communications co-founder Nick Miles added: \n\nAn article in the \"Financial Times\" also highlighted the achievements of the public relations team: \n\nThe Three feature as victims of British justice in the £500,000 documentary \"Taking Liberties\", made by Bermingham's film finance acquaintance.\n\nThe extensive news coverage of the Three in Britain resulted in a large-scale debate over the merits of their extradition to the United States under the then new Extradition Act 2003. In particular, a high-profile campaign against the extradition was led by \"The Daily Telegraph\" newspaper. Several arguments were raised against the extradition.\n\nIt was argued that the crime was committed by British citizens living in Britain against a British company based in London, the nation's capital city and that, therefore, any resulting criminal case fell under British legal and territorial jurisdiction and should be tried by a British court. However, British authorities decided not to prosecute due to a purported lack of evidence.\n\nSome argued that it would be very difficult for Three to receive a fair trial in Texas. The case could have taken years to come to trial. The trial was scheduled to begin in September 2006, but was repeatedly postponed to January 2008. The three accused men would be forced to remain in the US, far away from their families in the UK. Additionally, while on bail they would be unable to find gainful employment in order to fund a legal defence against the charges brought against them. (The Three were permitted to seek employment in the US provided they remained in Houston.)\n\nIt was also claimed that the defendants would be handicapped in preparing a defence because most of the evidence and witnesses were overseas in the UK. They argued that witnesses would be reluctant to come to Texas.\n\nIt was alleged that the extradition arrangements between the US and the UK were highly unequal. The Act's terms made it easier to extradite British citizens to America than \"vice versa\". There has been much criticism of the fact that the Americans do not have to produce a \"prima facie\" case to extradite UK citizens, whereas there was no comparable facility to extradite US citizens to the UK. Despite this, the head of Britain's Serious Fraud Office, Robert Wardle, has claimed that there would have been enough evidence to extradite the Three to the US even under the old extradition arrangements. He expressed astonishment that the men had become a \"cause célèbre\", and expressed confidence that the Three would get a fair trial in the US. Supporters of the Three claim that when the extradition law was passed in the wake of 11 September the UK government stated that it was only to be used in the so-called war against terror \"and\" if the treaty was ratified by the US. However, neither of these conditions was written into the text of the extradition law, and neither had been fulfilled in the case of the Three at the time of their extradition. (The treaty was subsequently ratified by the US in September 2006.)\n\nIn a highly unusual move, the Speaker of the House of Commons, Michael Martin, allowed an emergency debate, on 12 July 2006, on both the treaty and the 'Natwest Three' after a request by Liberal Democrat MP Nick Clegg. During the debate, news shocked the House that a former Royal Bank of Scotland executive and FBI prosecution witness Neil Coulbeck had been found dead, after committing suicide by slitting his wrists.\n\nIt had been suggested by friends and family that the FBI 'hounded' him. At the inquest into his death, Coulbeck's wife stated that he had been deeply disturbed by the extradition of the Three, and it was known that he had provided a crucial statement which in part led to their extradition. On the day of his death he tried to contact NatWest's lawyers and shortly after left his home and was found dead a few days later. The FBI denied this, saying that it had interviewed Coulbeck only once, four years earlier.\n\nIn January 2012, Mulgrew's book \"Gang of One\" detailing his early life, trial, experiences in prison, his reconciliation with his son and search for his daughter was published.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38789654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38789654", "title": "Northern California Innocence Project", "text": "Northern California Innocence Project\n\nThe Northern California Innocence Project(NCIP) is a legal based organization at the Santa Clara University School of Law in Santa Clara, California. The organization revisits previous convictions of individuals who are believed to be innocent of their crimes. Justice has been attained for 19 individuals who have collectively spent 235 years in jail. They are a non-profit clinical program of Santa Clara University School of Law, which looks to promote a more fair, effective and compassionate criminal justice system. They also take compassion and attempt to protect the rights of all parties involved so that they too may have an adequate trial. NCIP is a member of the national Innocence Project network of similar organizations. The NCIP was created in 2001 by Kathleen \"Cookie\" Ridolfi and Linda Starr, during this time new legislation in California (CA Penal Code Section 1405) had permitted convicted inmates to seek DNA testing to prove their innocence. \n\nThe Northern California Innocence Project was established after a landmark amendment that was adopted by the California District Court. CA Penal Code Section 1405 provides currently incarcerated convicted person should seek DNA testing to reveal exculpatory evidence. Kathleen \"Cookie\" RIdolfi and Linda Starr worked as trial and appellate attorneys for the Criminal Justice System. After numerous years of practice, they realized an opportunity to improve the errors within the system and free wrongly convicted individuals. In 2001, they co-founded the NCIP. The current executive director of the Northern Innocence Project is Linda Starr.\n\nThe Northern California Innocence Project looks to primarily protect the rights of the innocent as well as make a more fair, effective and compassionate justice system. They primarily look to exonerate people whose case allows DNA evidence to be available and be retested in the light of an exoneration. The NCIP promotes for more research and advocacy in wrongful convictions. The NCIP foresees a criminal justice system that correctly divides the innocent from the guilty along with treating all with their inalienable rights and compassion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30556632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30556632", "title": "Partitio terrarum imperii Romaniae", "text": "Partitio terrarum imperii Romaniae\n\nThe Partitio terrarum imperii Romaniae (Latin for \"Partition of the lands of the empire of \"Romania\" [i.e., the Byzantine Empire]), or Partitio regni Graeci (\"Partition of the kingdom of the Greeks\"), was a treaty signed among the crusaders after the sack of the Byzantine capital, Constantinople, by the Fourth Crusade in 1204. It established the Latin Empire and arranged the nominal partition of the Byzantine territory among the participants of the Crusade, with the Republic of Venice being the greatest titular beneficiary. However, because the crusaders did not in fact control most of the Empire, with local Byzantine Greek nobles establishing the Byzantine successor kingdoms (Empire of Nicaea, Empire of Trebizond, Despot of Epirus), most of the crusaders' declared division of the Empire amongst themselves could never be implemented.\n\nIn March 1204, shortly before the sack of Constantinople in April, the Crusaders made a preliminary arrangement on the partition of the Byzantine territories between themselves. This text, concluded between the principal leaders of the Crusade, the Doge of Venice Enrico Dandolo, Marquess Boniface of Montferrat, Count Baldwin of Flanders, and Count Louis I of Blois, has been preserved among the letters of Pope Innocent III. According to its stipulations, the Venetians would retain their previous privileges granted by the Byzantine emperors, and a common committee, composed in equal numbers of Venetians and Crusaders, would elect an emperor for the Latin Empire to be established after the conquest of the city. The Latin Emperor would receive one quarter of all territories, as well as the palaces of Blachernae and Boukoleon in the city. The remaining three quarters of the Byzantine territories would be divided equally between Venice and the other Crusaders. On 9 May, Baldwin of Flanders was elected Latin Emperor, in place of the previous leader of the Crusade, Boniface of Montferrat. According to the Crusader and chronicler Geoffrey of Villehardouin, by previous agreement, Boniface should receive the territories lying beyond the Bosporus and Marmara Sea, \"towards Turkey\", as well as \"the isle of Greece\". However, to placate Boniface, Baldwin agreed to assign to him the Kingdom of Thessalonica instead.\n\nThe agreement, which was promulgated either in late September or early October 1204 (according to the opinions of W. Heyd, Dionysios Zakythinos, and A. Carile) or (according to Nikolaos Oikonomides) immediately after the sack in April–May 1204, was drafted by a 24-man committee consisting of 12 Venetians and 12 representatives of the other Crusader leaders. The Venetians played a major role in the proceedings, as they had first-hand knowledge of the area, and many of the final text's provisions can be traced to the imperial chrysobull granted to Venice in 1198 by Alexios III Angelos. It gave the Latin Emperor direct control of one fourth of the Byzantine territory, to Venice three eighths – including three eighths of the city of Constantinople, with Hagia Sophia – and the remaining three eighths were apportioned among the other Crusader chiefs. Through this division, Venice became the chief power in Latin Romania, and the effective power behind the Latin Empire, a fact clearly illustrated by the lofty title its Doge acquired: (\"Lord of a quarter and a half quarter of all of \"Romania\"\").\n\nThe treaty survives in a number of manuscripts, all from Venice: the \"Liber Albus\" (fols. 34ff.), the \"Liber Pactorum\" (Vol. I, fols. 246ff. and Vol. II, fols. 261ff.), the \"Codex Sancti Marci\" 284, folio 3, and the \"Muratorii codices Ambrosiani\" I and II. The first critical edition of the treaty was published in the collection of Venetian diplomatic documents compiled by Gottlieb Tafel and Georg Thomas for the Imperial Academy of Sciences in Vienna in 1856, while A. Carile published an up-to-date edition with full commentary in 1965. \n\nAccording to the treaty's provisions, the territories were divided in the portion of the \"Lord Doge and Commune of Venice\" (\"pars domini Ducis et communis Venetiae\"), the portion of the Latin Emperor (\"pars domini Imperatoris\"), and the remainder as the portion of the Crusaders, or \"pilgrims\" (\"pars Peregrinorum\").\n\nBased on the forms of the names, the source material for the compilation of the treaty was in Greek, while the prevalence of fiscal terms like \"episkepsis\" points to the use of the cadastral and tax registers of the central Byzantine administration. \n\nSeveral areas are left out of the \"Partitio\". in Europe, the lands of Macedonia and Western Thrace, between the Maritsa and Vardar rivers, as well as the northeastern Peloponnese, Boeotia, and central Euboea, are absent. These were lands assigned to Boniface of Montferrat, and thus evidently excluded from the general partition. This fact also helps to assign the \"terminus post quem\" for the treaty, namely the agreement of 16 May 1204 between Boniface and Baldwin of Flanders that established the Kingdom of Thessalonica.\n\nAs Zakythinos points out, the territorial division shown in the \"Partitio\" and in the 1198 chrysobull for Asia Minor is much more conservative, and reflects far closer the \"traditional\" thematic structure than in the European provinces. On the other hand, the two documents differ considerably in the extent of territory they mention: the 1198 chrysobull contains the central and northern portions of western Asia Minor, but also the southern shore with Attaleia, Cilicia, and even Antioch, whereas in the \"Partitio\", includes the Black Sea shore from Paphlagonia up to Pavrae. \n\nThe \"Partitio Romaniae\" initiated the period of the history of Greece known as \"Frankokratia\" or \"Latinokratia\" (\"Frankish/Latin rule\"), where Catholic West European nobles, mostly from France and Italy, established states on former Byzantine territory and ruled over the mostly Orthodox native Byzantine Greeks. The provisions of the \"Partitio Romaniae\" were not fully carried out; much of the Byzantine realm fell into the hands not of the crusaders who had sacked the capital but of the local Byzantine Greek nobles, who established the Byzantine successor states of the Despotate of Epirus, the Empire of Nicaea and the Empire of Trebizond, while the Crusaders also squabbled among themselves. The Latin Empire itself, consisting of the area surrounding Constantinople, Thrace, and the Sea of Marmara was also drawn into a disastrous conflict with the powerful Second Bulgarian Empire. Latin rule became most firmly established and lasted longest in southern Greece (the Principality of Achaea and the Duchy of Athens), as well as the Aegean islands, which came largely under the control of Venice.\n\nAs the division was based on now lost documents and tax registers from the Byzantine imperial chancery, along with Alexios III's 1198 chrysobull, the \"Partitio Romaniae\" is a crucial document for the administrative divisions of the Byzantine Empire and the estates of the various Byzantine magnate families , as well as the areas still controlled by the Byzantine central government at the time.\n\n"}
{"id": "24960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24960", "title": "Permanent Court of International Justice", "text": "Permanent Court of International Justice\n\nThe Permanent Court of International Justice, often called the World Court, existed from 1922 to 1946. It was an international court attached to the League of Nations. Created in 1920 (although the idea of an international court was several centuries old), the Court was initially well-received from states and academics alike, with many cases submitted to it for its first decade of operation. With the heightened international tension of the 1930s, the Court became less used. By a resolution from the League of Nations on 18 April 1946, the Court and the League both ceased to exist and were replaced by the International Court of Justice and the United Nations.\n\nThe Court's mandatory jurisdiction came from three sources: the Optional Clause of the League of Nations, general international conventions and special bipartite international treaties. Cases could also be submitted directly by states, but they were not bound to submit material unless it fell into those three categories. The Court could issue either judgments or advisory opinions. Judgments were directly binding while advisory opinions were not. In practice, member states of the League of Nations followed advisory opinions anyway, as they feared that otherwise, they could undermine the moral and legal authority of the Court and League.\n\nOn occasion, the Court was accused of extending its jurisdiction. Strictly speaking, it was allowed to intervene only in matters of international law, but became involved in municipal law during the Loans Cases.\n\nAn international court had long been proposed; Pierre Dubois suggested it in 1305 and Émeric Crucé in 1623. An idea of an international court of justice arose in the political world at the First Hague Peace Conference in 1899, where it was declared that arbitration between states was the easiest solution to disputes, providing a temporary panel of judges to arbitrate in such cases, the Permanent Court of Arbitration. At the Second Hague Peace Conference in 1907, a draft convention for a permanent Court of Arbitral Justice was written although disputes and other pressing business at the Conference meant that such a body was never established, owing to difficulties agreeing on a procedure to select the judges. The outbreak of the First World War, and, in particular, its conclusion made it clear to many academics that some kind of world court was needed, and it was widely expected that one would be established. Article 14 of the Covenant of the League of Nations, created after the Treaty of Versailles, allowed the League to investigate setting up an international court. In June 1920, an Advisory Committee of jurists appointed by the League of Nations finally established a working guideline for the appointment of judges, and the Committee was then authorised to draft a constitution for a permanent court not of arbitration but of justice. The Statute of the Permanent Court of International Justice was accepted in Geneva on December 13, 1920.\n\nThe Court first sat on 30 January 1922, at the Peace Palace, The Hague, covering preliminary business during the first session (such as establishing procedure and appointing officers) Nine judges sat, along with three deputies, since Antonio Sánchez de Bustamante y Sirven, Ruy Barbosa and Wang Ch'ung-hui were unable to attend, the last being at the Washington Naval Conference. The Court elected Bernard Loder as President and Max Huber as Vice-President; Huber was replaced by Charles Andre Weiss a month later. On 14 February the Court was officially opened, and rules of procedure were established on 24 March, when the court ended its first session. The court first sat to decide cases on 15 June. During its first year of business, the Court issued three advisory opinions, all related to the International Labour Organization created by the Treaty of Versailles.\n\nThe initial reaction to the Court was good, from politicians, practising lawyers and academics alike. Ernest Pollock, the former Attorney General for England and Wales said, \"May we not as lawyers regard the establishment of an International Court of Justice as an advance in the science that we pursue?\" John Henry Wigmore said that the creation of the Court \"should have given every lawyer a thrill of cosmic vibration\", and James Brown Scott wrote that \"the one dream of our ages has been realised in our time\". Much praise was heaped upon the appointment of an American judge despite the fact that the United States had not become a signatory to the Court's protocol, and it was thought that it would soon do so.\n\nThe Court faced increasing work as it went on, allaying the fears of those commentators who had believed the Court would become like the Supreme Court of the United States, which was not presented with a case for its first six terms. The Court was given nine cases during 1922 and 1923, however, with judgments called \"cases\" and advisory opinions called \"questions\". Three cases were disposed of during the Court's first session, one during an extraordinary sitting between 8 January and 7 February 1923 (the Tunis-Morocco Nationality Question), four during the second ordinary sitting between 15 June 1923 and 15 September 1923 (Eastern Carelia Question, S.S. \"Wimbledon\" case, German Settlers Question, Acquisition of Polish Nationality Question) and one during a second extraordinary session from 12 November to 6 December 1923 (Jaworznia Question). A replacement for Ruy Barbosa (who had died on 1 March 1923 without hearing any cases) was also found, with the election of Epitácio Pessoa on 10 September 1923. The workload the following year was reduced, containing two judgments and one advisory opinion; the Mavrommatis Palestine Concessions Case, the Interpretation of the Treaty of Neuilly Case (the first case of the Court's Chamber of Summary Procedure) and the Monastery of Saint-Naoum Question. During the same year, a new President and Vice-President were elected, since they were mandated to serve for a term of three years. At the elections on 4 September 1924, Charles Andre Weiss was again elected Vice-President and Max Huber became the second President of the Court. Judicial pensions were created at the same time, with a judge being given 1/30th of his annual pay for every year he had served once he had both retired and turned 65.\n\n1925 was an exceedingly busy year for the court, which sat for 210 days, with four extraordinary sessions as well as the ordinary session, producing 3 judgments and 4 advisory opinions. The first judgment was given in the Exchange of Greek and Turkish Populations Case, the second (by the Court of Summary Procedure) was on the interpretation of the Interpretation of the Treaty of Neuilly Case, and the third in the Mavrommatis Palestine Concessions Case. The 4 advisory opinions issued by the Court were in the Polish Postal Service in Danzig Question, the Expulsion of the Ecumenical Patriarch Question, the Treaty of Lausanne Question and the German Interests in Polish Upper Silesia Question. 1926 saw reduced business, with only one ordinary session and one extraordinary session; it was, however, the first year that all 11 judges had been present to hear cases. The court heard two cases, providing one judgment and one advisory opinion; a second question on German Interests in Polish Upper Silesia, this time a judgment rather than an advisory opinion, and an advisory opinion on the International Labour Organization.\n\nDespite the reduction of work in 1926, 1927 was another busy year, the Court sitting continuously from 15 June to 16 December, handing down 4 orders, 4 judgments and 1 advisory opinion. The judgments were in the Belgium-China Case, the Case Concerning the Factory at Chorzow, the Lotus Case and a continuation of the Mavrommatis Jerusalem Concessions Case. 3 of the advisory opinions were on the Competence of the European Commission on the Danube, and the 4th was on the Jurisdiction of Danzig Courts. The 4 orders were on the German Interests in Polish Upper Silesia. This year saw another set of elections; on 6 December, with Dionisio Anzilotti elected President and Charles Andre Weiss elected Vice-President. Weiss died the following year, and John Bassett Moore resigned; Max Huber was elected Vice-President on 12 September 1928 to succeed Weiss, while a second death (Lord Finlay) left the Court increasingly understaffed. Replacements for Moore and Finlay were elected on 19 September 1929; Henri Fromageot and Cecil Hurst respectively.\n\nAfter the second round of elections in September 1930, the Court was reorganised. On 16 January 1931 Mineichirō Adachi was appointed President, and Gustavo Guerrero Vice-President.\n\nThe United States never joined the World Court, primarily because enemies of the League of Nations in the Senate argued that the Court was too closely linked to the League of Nations. The leading opponent was Senator William Borah, Republican of Idaho. The United States finally recognised the Court's jurisdiction, following a long and drawn out process. President Warren G. Harding had first suggested US involvement in 1923, and on 9 December 1929, three court protocols were signed. The U.S. demanded a veto over cases involving the U.S. but other nations rejected the idea. \n\nPresident Franklin Roosevelt did not risk his political capital and gave only passive support even though a two-thirds vote of approval was needed in the Senate. A barrage of telegrams flooded Congress, inspired by attacks made by Charles Coughlin and others. The treaty failed by seven votes on January 29, 1935.\n\nThe United States finally accepted the Court's jurisdiction on 28 December 1935, but the treaty was never ratified, and the U.S. never joined. Francis Boyle attributes the failure to a strong isolationist element in the US Senate, arguing that the ineffectiveness shown by US nonparticipation in the Court and other international institutions could be linked to the start of the Second World War.\n\n1933 was a busy year for the court, which cleared its 20th case (and \"greatest triumph\"); the Eastern Greenland Case. This period was marked by growing international tension, however, with Japan and Germany announcing their withdrawal from the League of Nations, to come into effect in 1935. That did not directly affect the Court, since the protocol accepting Court jurisdiction was separately ratified, but it influenced whether a nation would be willing to bring a case before it, as evidenced by Germany's withdrawal from two pending cases. 1934, the Court's 13th year, \"has been in keeping with the traditions associated with that number\", with few cases since the world's governments were more concerned with the growing international tension. The Court's business continued to be small in 1935, 1936, 1937, 1938, and 1939 although 1937 was marked by Monaco's acceptance of the Court protocol. The Court's judicial output in 1940 consisted entirely of a set of orders, completed in a meeting between 19 and 26 February, caused by an international situation, which left the Court with \"uncertain prospects for the future\". Following the German invasion of the Netherlands, the Court was unable to meet although the Registrar and President were afforded full diplomatic immunity. Informed that the situation would not be tolerated after diplomatic missions from other nations left The Hague on 16 July, the President and Registrar left the Netherlands and moved to Switzerland, accompanied by their staff.\n\nThe Court was unable to meet between 1941 and 1944, but the framework remained intact, and it soon became apparent that the Court would be dissolved. In 1943, an international panel met to consider \"the question of the Permanent Court of International Justice\", meeting from 20 March to 10 February 1944. The panel agreed that the name and functioning of the Court should be preserved but for some future court rather than a continuation of the current one. Between 21 August and 7 October 1944, the Dumbarton Oaks Conference was held, which, among other things, created an international court attached to the United Nations, to succeed the Permanent Court of International Justice. As a result of these conferences and others, the judges of the Permanent Court of International Justice officially resigned in October 1945 and, via a resolution by the League of Nations on 18 April 1946, the Court and the League both ceased to exist, being replaced by the International Court of Justice and the United Nations.\n\nThe Court initially consisted of 11 judges and 4 deputy judges, recommended by member states of the League of Nations to the Secretary General of the League of Nations, who would put them before the Council and Assembly for election. The Council and Assembly were to bear in mind that the elected panel of judges was to represent every major legal tradition in the League, along with \"every major civilization\". Each member state was allowed to recommend 4 potential judges, with a maximum of 2 from its own nation. Judges were elected by a straight majority vote, held independently in the Council and Assembly. The judges served for a period of nine years, with their term limits all expiring at the same time, necessitating a completely new set of elections. The judges were independent and rid themselves of their nationality for the purposes of hearing cases, owing allegiance to no individual member state, but it was forbidden to have more than one judge from the same state. As a sign of their independence from national ties, judges were given full diplomatic immunity when engaged in Court business. The only requirements for judges were \"high moral character\" and \"the qualifications required in their respective countries [for] the highest judicial offices\" or to be \"jurisconsults of recognized competence in international law\".\n\nThe first panel was elected on 14 September 1921, with the 4 deputies being elected on the 16th. On the first vote, Rafael Altamira y Crevea of Spain, Dionisio Anzilotti of Italy, Bernard Loder of the Netherlands, Ruy Barbosa of Brazil, Yorozu Oda of Japan, Charles Andre Weiss of France, Antonio Sánchez de Bustamante y Sirven of Cuba and Lord Finlay of the United Kingdom were elected by a majority vote of both the Council and Assembly on the first ballot taken. The second ballot elected John Bassett Moore of the United States, and the sixth Didrik Nyholm of Denmark and Max Huber of Switzerland. As the deputy judges, Wang Ch'ung-hui of China, Demetre Negulesco of Romania and Michaelo Yovanovich of Yugoslavia were elected. The Assembly and Council disagreed on the fourth deputy judge, but Frederik Beichmann of Norway was eventually appointed. Deputy judges were only substitutes for absent judges and were not afforded a vote in altering court procedure or contributing at other times. As such, they were allowed to act as counsel in international cases where they were not sitting as judges.\n\nIn 1930, the number of judges was increased to 15, and a new set of elections were held. The election was held on 25 September 1930, with 14 candidates receiving a majority on the first ballot and a 15th, Francisco José Urrutia, receiving a majority on the second. The full court was Urrutia, Mineichiro Adachi, Rafael Altamira y Crevea, Dionisio Anzilotti, Bustamante, Jonkheer van Eysinga, Henri Fromageot, José Gustavo Guerrero, Cecil Hurst, Edouard Rolin-Jaequemyns, Frank B. Kellogg, Negulesco, Michał Jan Rostworowski, Walther Schücking and Wang Ch'ung-hui.\n\nJudges were paid 15,000 Dutch florins a year, with daily expenses of 50 florins to pay for living expenses, and an additional 45,000 florins for the President, who was required to live at The Hague. Travelling expenses were also provided, and a \"duty allowance\" of 100 florins was provided when the court was sitting, with 150 for the Vice-President. This duty allowance was limited to 20,000 florins a year for the judges and 30,000 florins for the Vice-President; as such, it provided for 200 days of court hearings, with no allowance provided if the court sat for longer. The deputy judges received no salary but, when called up for service, were provided with travel expenses, 50 florins a day for living expenses and 150 florins a day as a duty allowance.\n\nUnder the Covenant of the League of Nations, all League members agreed that if there was a dispute between states they \"recognize to be suitable for submission to arbitration and which cannot be satisfactorily settled by diplomacy\", the matter would be submitted to the Court for arbitration, with suitable disputes being over the interpretation of an international treaty, a question on international law, the validity of facts, which, if true, would breach international obligations and the nature of any reparations to be made for breaching international obligations. The original Statutes of the Court provided that all 11 judges were required to sit in every case. There were three exceptions: when reviewing Labour Clauses from a peace treaty such as the Treaty of Versailles (which was done by a special chamber of 5 judges, appointed every 3 years), when reviewing cases on communications or transport arising from a peace treaty (which used a similar procedure) and when hearing summary procedure cases, which were reviewed by a panel of 3 judges.\n\nTo prevent the appearance of any bias in the court's makeup, if there was a judge belonging to one member state on the panel and the other member state was not \"represented\", they had the ability to select an \"ad hoc\" judge of their own nationality to hear the case. In a full court hearing, that increased the number to 12; in one of the 5-man chambers, the new judge took the place of one of the original 5. That did not apply to summary procedure cases. The \"ad hoc\" judge, selected by the member state, was expected to fulfil all the requirements of a normal judge; the President of the Court had ultimate discretion over whether to authorise him to sit. The Court was mandated to open on 15 June each year and continue until all cases were finished, with extraordinary sessions if required; by 1927, there were more extraordinary sessions than ordinary ones. The Court's business being conducted in English and French as official languages, and hearings were public unless it was otherwise specified.\n\nAfter receiving files in a case calculated to lead to a judgment, the judges would exchange their views informally on the salient legal points of the case, and a time limit for producing a judgment would then be set. Then, each judge would write an anonymous summary containing his opinion; the opinions would be circulated among the Court for 2 or 3 days before the President drafted a judgment containing a summary of those submitted by individual judges. The Court would then agree on the decision that they wished to reach, along with the main points of argument they wished to use. Once this was done, a Committee of 4, including the President, the Registrar and two judges elected by secret ballot, drafted a final judgment, which was then voted on by the entire Court. Once a final judgment was set, it was given to the public and the press. Every judgment contained the reasons behind the decision and the judges assenting; dissenting judges were allowed to deliver their own judgment, with all judgments read in open court before the agents of the parties to the dispute. Judgments could not be revised except on the discovery of some fact unknown when the Court sat but not if the fact was known but not discussed because of negligence.\n\nThe Court also issued \"advisory opinions\", which arose from Article 14 of the Covenant creating the Court, which provided, \"The Court may also give an advisory opinion upon any dispute referred to it by the Council or Assembly\". Goodrich interprets that as indicating that the drafters intended a purely advisory capacity for the Court, not a binding one. Manley Ottmer Hudson (who sat as a judge) said that an advisory opinion \"was what it purported to be. It is advisory. It is not in any sense a judgement... hence it is not in any way binding on any state\", but Charles De Visscher argued that in certain situations, an advisory opinion could be binding on the League of Nations Council and, under certain circumstances, some states; M. Politis agreed, saying that the Court's advisory opinions were equivalent to a binding judgment. In 1927, the Court appointed a committee to look at this issue, and it reported that \"where there are in fact contending parties, the difference between contentious cases and advisory cases is only nominal... so the view that advisory opinions are not binding is more theoretical than real\". In practice, advisory opinions were usually followed, mostly due to the fear that if this \"revolutionary\" international court's decisions were not followed, it would undermine its authority. The court retained the discretion to avoid giving an advisory opinion, which it used on occasion.\n\nOther than the judges, the Court also included a Registrar and his Secretariat, the Registry. When the Court met for its initial session, opened on 30 January 1922 to allow for the establishment of procedure and the appointment of Court officials, the Secretary-General of the League of Nations passed an emergency resolution through the Assembly, which designated an official of the League and his staff as the Registrar and Registry respectively, with the first Registrar being Åke Hammarskjöld. The Registrar, required to reside within The Hague, was initially tasked with drawing up a plan to create an efficient Secretariat, using the smallest number of staff possible and costing as little as possible. As a result, he decided to have each member of the Secretariat as the head of a particular Department, so the numbers of actual employees could be increased or decreased as necessary without impacting on the actual Registry. In 1927, the post of Deputy-Registrar was created, tasked with dealing with legal research for the Court and answering all diplomatic correspondence received by the Registry.\n\nThe first Deputy-Registrar was Paul Ruegger; after his resignation on 17 August 1928, Julio Lopez Olivan was selected to succeed him. Olivan resigned in 1931 to take over from Hammarskjöld as Registrar, and was replaced by M. L. J. H. Jorstad.\n\nThe three principal officers of the Registry, after the Registrar and Deputy-Registrar, were the three Editing Secretaries. The first Editing Secretary, known as the Drafting Secretary, was tasked with drafting the Court's publications (including the Confidential Bulletin, a document exclusively received by judges of the court) and Sections D and E of the official journal, comprising the legislative clauses conferring jurisdiction on the Court and the Court's Annual Report. The second Editing Secretary, known as the Oral Secretary, was mainly responsible for the oral interpretation and translation of the Court's discussions. For public hearings, he was assisted by interpreters, but for private meetings, only he, the Registrar and the Deputy-Registrar were admitted. As a result of this duty, the Oral Secretary was also tasked with writing Section C of the official journal, which comprised the oral interpretations of Court minutes, along with cases and questions put before the court. The third Secretary, known as the Written Secretary, was tasked with the written translations of the Court's business, which were \"both numerous and voluminous\". He was assisted in this by the other Secretaries and by translators for languages not his own; all Secretaries were expected to speak English and French fluently and to have working knowledge of German and Spanish.\n\nThe Registry was split into several Departments; the Archives, the Accounting and Establishment, the Printing Service and the Copying Department. The Archives included a distribution service for the Court's documents and the legal texts used by the Court itself and was described as one of the most difficult departments to organise. The Accounting and Establishment Department dealt with the requests for and allocation of the Court's yearly budget, which was drawn up by the Registrar, approved by the Court and submitted to the League of Nations. The Printing Department, run from a single printing plant in Leiden, was created to allow the circulation of the Court's publishings. The Copying Department comprised shorthand, typing and copying services, and included secretaries for the Registrar and judges, emergency reporters capable of taking notes down verbatim and copyists; the smallest of the departments, it comprised between 12 and 40 staff depending on the business of the Court.\n\n\n\nThe Court's jurisdiction was largely optional, but there were some situations in which they had \"compulsory jurisdiction\", and states were required to refer cases to them. That came from three sources: the Optional Clause of the League of Nations, general international conventions and \"special bipartite international treaties\". The Optional Clause was a clause attached to the protocol establishing the court and required all signatories to refer certain classes of dispute to the court, with compulsory judgments resulting. There were approximately 30 international conventions under which the Court had similar jurisdiction, including the Treaty of Versailles, the Air Navigation Convention, the Treaty of St. Germain and all mandates signed by the League of Nations. It was also foreseen that there would be clauses inserted in bipartite international treaties, which would allow the referral of disputes to the Court; that occurred, with such provisions found in treaties between Czechoslovakia and Austria, and between Czechoslovakia and Poland.\n\nThroughout its existence, the Court widened its jurisdiction as much as possible. Strictly speaking, the Court's jurisdiction was only for disputes between states, but it regularly accepted disputes that were between a state and an individual if a second state brought the individual's case to the Court. It argued that the second state assertsled its rights, and the cases therefore became one between two states.\n\nThe proviso that the Court was for disputes that could not \"be satisfactorily settled by diplomacy\" never made it require evidence that diplomatic discussions had been attempted before bringing the case. In the Loan Cases, it asserted jurisdiction despite the fact that there was no alleged breach of international law, and it could not be shown that there was any international element to the claim. The Court justified itself by saying that the Covenant of the League of Nations allowed it to have jurisdiction in cases over \"the existence of any fact which, if established, would constitute a breach of international obligations\" and argued that since the fact \"may be of any kind\", it had jurisdiction if the dispute is one of municipal law. It had been long established that municipal law may be considered as a side point to a dispute over international law, but the Loan Cases discussed municipal law without the application of any international points.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47046593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47046593", "title": "QRG on Arbitration, Conciliation and Mediation", "text": "QRG on Arbitration, Conciliation and Mediation\n\nQuick Reference Guide on Arbitration, Conciliation & Mediation is a book authored by Vishnu S Warrier published by Lexis Nexis in 2015.\n\nThe book studies the concept of Arbitration, Mediation and Conciliation Procedure in Ancient India and present. Considering law students in mind, author did justice to conceptualize the Alternative Dispute Resolutions such as Arbitration, Mediation & Conciliation into an easily understanding language.\n\nIn pursuit of globalisation, India responded positively by opening up its economy. Along with the benefits promised, it also brought lots of issues. As we all know major concern of law is the conflict resolution. Traditional justice delivery system through the adjudication of courts, had already given way a large extent of alternative mode of dispute Resolution in common law countries. Following are the Key Concepts covered under this Book.\nAlternative dispute resolution in India is not new and it was in existence even under the previous Arbitration Act, 1940. The Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 has been enacted to accommodate the harmonisation mandates of UNCITRAL Model. To streamline the Indian legal system the traditional civil law known as Code of Civil Procedure, (CPC) 1908 has also been amended and section 89 has been introduced. \nSection 89 (1) of CPC provides an option for the settlement of disputes outside the court. It provides that where it appears to the court that there exist elements, which may be acceptable to the parties, the court may formulate the terms of a possible settlement and refer the same for arbitration, conciliation, mediation or judicial settlement\n\nThe process of arbitration can start only if there exists a valid Arbitration Agreement between the parties prior to the emergence of the dispute. As per Section 7, such an agreement must be in writing. The contract regarding which the dispute exists, must either contain an arbitration clause or must refer to a separate document signed by the parties containing the arbitration agreement. The existence of an arbitration agreement can also be inferred by written correspondence such as letters, telex, or telegrams which provide a record of the agreement. An exchange of statement of claim and defense in which existence of an arbitration agreement is alleged by one party and not denied by other is also considered as valid written arbitration agreement.\n\nConciliation is a less formal form of arbitration. This process does not require an existence of any prior agreement. Any party can request the other party to appoint a conciliator. One conciliator is preferred but two or three are also allowed. In case of multiple conciliators, all must act jointly. If a party rejects an offer to conciliate, there can be no conciliation.\n\nThe term \"mediation\" broadly refers to any instance in which a third party helps others reach agreement. More specifically, mediation has a structure, timetable and dynamics that \"ordinary\" negotiation lacks. The process is private and confidential, possibly enforced by law. Participation is typically voluntary. The mediator acts as a neutral third party and facilitates rather than directs the process.\n\nNegotiation is a dialogue between two or more people or parties intended to reach a mutually beneficial outcome, resolve points of difference, to gain advantage for an individual or collective, or to craft outcomes to satisfy various interests.\n\n"}
{"id": "31540040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31540040", "title": "Regulation of genetic engineering", "text": "Regulation of genetic engineering\n\nThe regulation of genetic engineering varies widely by country. Countries such as the United States, Canada, Lebanon and Egypt use \"substantial equivalence\" as the starting point when assessing safety, while many countries such as those in the European Union, Brazil and China authorize GMO cultivation on a case-by-case basis. Many countries allow the import of GM food with authorization, but either do not allow its cultivation (Russia, Norway, Israel) or have provisions for cultivation, but no GM products are yet produced (Japan, South Korea). Most countries that do not allow for GMO cultivation do permit research.\n\nOne of the key issues concerning regulators is whether GM products should be labeled. Labeling of GMO products in the marketplace is required in 64 countries. Labeling can be mandatory up to a threshold GM content level (which varies between countries) or voluntary. A study investigating voluntary labeling in South Africa found that 31% of products labeled as GMO-free had a GM content above 1.0%. In Canada and the USA labeling of GM food is voluntary, while in Europe all food (including processed food) or feed which contains greater than 0.9% of approved GMOs must be labelled.\n\nThere is a scientific consensus that currently available food derived from GM crops poses no greater risk to human health than conventional food, but that each GM food needs to be tested on a case-by-case basis before introduction. Nonetheless, members of the public are much less likely than scientists to perceive GM foods as safe. The legal and regulatory status of GM foods varies by country, with some nations banning or restricting them, and others permitting them with widely differing degrees of regulation.\n\nThere is no evidence to support the idea that the consumption of approved GM food has a detrimental effect on human health. Some scientists and advocacy groups, such as Greenpeace and World Wildlife Fund, have however called for additional and more rigorous testing for GM food.\n\nThe development of a regulatory framework concerning genetic engineering began in 1975, at Asilomar, California. The first use of Recombinant DNA (rDNA) technology had just been successfully accomplished by Stanley Cohen and Herbert Boyer two years previously and the scientific community recognized that as well as benefits this technology could also pose some risks. The Asilomar meeting recommended a set of guidelines regarding the cautious use of recombinant technology and any products resulting from that technology. The Asilomar recommendations were voluntary, but in 1976 the US National Institute of Health (NIH) formed a rDNA advisory committee. This was followed by other regulatory offices (the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and Food and Drug Administration (FDA)), effectively making all rDNA research tightly regulated in the USA.\n\nIn 1982 the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) released a report into the potential hazards of releasing genetically modified organisms into the environment as the first transgenic plants were being developed. As the technology improved and genetically organisms moved from model organisms to potential commercial products the USA established a committee at the Office of Science and Technology (OSTP) to develop mechanisms to regulate the developing technology. In 1986 the OSTP assigned regulatory approval of genetically modified plants in the US to the USDA, FDA and EPA.\n\nThe basic concepts for the safety assessment of foods derived from GMOs have been developed in close collaboration under the auspices of the OECD, the World Health Organization (WHO) and Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO). A first joint FAO/WHO consultation in 1990 resulted in the publication of the report ‘Strategies for Assessing the Safety of Foods Produced by Biotechnology’ in 1991. Building on that, an international consensus was reached by the OECD’s Group of National Experts on Safety in Biotechnology, for assessing biotechnology in general, including field testing GM crops. That Group met again in Bergen, Norway in 1992 and reached consensus on principles for evaluating the safety of GM food; its report, ‘The safety evaluation of foods derived by modern technology – concepts and principles’ was published in 1993. That report recommends conducting the safety assessment of a GM food on a case-by-case basis through comparison to an existing food with a long history of safe use. This basic concept has been refined in subsequent workshops and consultations organized by the OECD, WHO, and FAO, and the OECD in particular has taken the lead in acquiring data and developing standards for conventional foods to be used in assessing substantial equivalence.\n\nThe Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety was adopted on 29 January 2000 and entered into force on 11 September 2003. It is an international treaty that governs the transfer, handling, and use of genetically modified (GM) organisms. It is focused on movement of GMOs between countries and has been called a de facto trade agreement. One hundred and fifty-seven countries are members of the Protocol and many use it as a reference point for their own regulations. Also in 2003 the Codex Alimentarius Commission of the FAO/WHO adopted a set of \"Principles and Guidelines on foods derived from biotechnology\" to help countries coordinate and standardize regulation of GM food to help ensure public safety and facilitate international trade. and updated its guidelines for import and export of food in 2004,\n\nThe European Union first introduced laws requiring GMO's to be labelled in 1997. In 2013, Connecticut became the first state to enact a labeling law in the USA, although it would not take effect until other states followed suit.\n\nInstitutions that conduct certain types of scientific research must obtain permission from government authorities and ethical committees before they conduct any experiments. Universities and research institutes generally have a special committee that is responsible for approving any experiments that involve genetic engineering. Many experiments also need permission from a national regulatory group. Most countries have exempt dealings for genetically modified organisms (GMOs) that only pose a low risk. These include systems using standard laboratory strains as the hosts, recombinant DNA that does not code for a vertebrate toxin or is not derived from a micro-organism that can cause disease in humans. Exempt dealings usually do not require approval from the national regulator. GMOs that pose a low risk if certain management practices are complied with are classified as notifiable low risk dealings. The final classification is for any uses of GMOs that do not meet the previous criteria. These are known as licensed dealings and include cloning any genes that code for vertebrate toxins or using hosts that are capable of causing disease in humans. Licensed dealings require the approval of the national regulator.\n\nWork with exempt GMOs do not need to be carried out in certified laboratories. All others must be contained in a Physical Containment level 1 (PC1) or Physical Containment level 2 (PC2) laboratories. Laboratory work with GMOs classified as low risk, which include knockout mice, are carried out in PC1 lab. This is the case for modifications that do not confer an advantage to the animal or doesn't secrete any infectious agents. If a laboratory strain that is used isn't covered by exempt dealings or the inserted DNA could code for a pathogenic gene, it must be carried out in a PC2 laboratory.\n\nThe approaches taken by governments to assess and manage the risks associated with the use of genetic engineering technology and the development and release of GMOs vary from country to country, with some of the most marked differences occurring between the United States and Europe. The U.S. regulatory policy is governed by the Coordinated Framework for Regulation of Biotechnology The policy has three tenets: \"(1) U.S. policy would focus on the product of genetic modification (GM) techniques, not the process itself, (2) only regulation grounded in verifiable scientific risks would be tolerated, and (3) GM products are on a continuum with existing products and, therefore, existing statutes are sufficient to review the products.\" European Union by contrast enacted regulatory laws in 2003 that provided possibly the most stringent GMO regulations in the world. All GMOs, along with irradiated food, are considered \"new food\" and subject to extensive, case-by-case, science-based food evaluation by the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA). The criteria for authorization fall in four broad categories: \"safety,\" \"freedom of choice,\" \"labelling,\" and \"traceability.\"\n\nThe European Union has heavily contrasted its regulations and restrictions regarding genetic engineering compared to those of the United States. The European Parliament's Committee on the Environmental, Public Health, and Consumer Protection pushed forward and adopted a \"safety first\" principle regarding the case of GMOs, calling for any negative health consequences from GMOs to be held liable. On the other hand, the United States still takes on a less hands-on approach to the regulation of GMOs, with the FDA and USDA only looking over pesticide and plant health facets of GMOs. Despite the overall global increase in the production in GMOs, the European Union has still stalled GMOs fully integrating into its food supply. This has definitely affected various countries, including the United States, when trading with the EU.\n\nHowever, although the European Union has had relatively strict regulations regarding the genetically modified food, Europe is now allowing newer versions of modified maize and other agricultural produce. Also, the level of GMO acceptance in the European Union varies across its countries with Spain and Portugal being more permissive of GMOs than France and the Nordic population. One notable exception however is Sweden. In this country, the government has declared that the GMO definition (according to Directive 2001/18/EC) stipulates that foreign DNA needs to be present in an organism for it to qualify as a genetically modified organisms. Organisms that thus have the foreign DNA removed (for example via selective breeding) do not qualify as GMO's, even if gene editing has thus been used to make the organism.\n\nFor a genetically modified organism to be approved for release in the U.S., it must be assessed under the Plant Protection Act by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) agency within the USDA and may also be assessed by the FDA and the EPA, depending on the intended use of the organism. The USDA evaluate the plants potential to become weeds, the FDA reviews plants that could enter or alter the food supply, and the EPA regulates genetically modified plants with pesticide properties, as well as agrochemical residues. In Europe the EFSA reports to the European Commission who then draft a proposal for granting or refusing the authorisation. This proposal is submitted to the Section on GM Food and Feed of the Standing Committee on the Food Chain and Animal Health and if accepted it will be adopted by the EC or passed on to the Council of Agricultural Ministers. Once in the Council it has three months to reach a qualified majority for or against the proposal, if no majority is reached the proposal is passed back to the EC who will then adopt the proposal. However, even after authorization, individual EU member states can ban individual varieties under a 'safeguard clause' if there are \"justifiable reasons\" that the variety may cause harm to humans or the environment. The member state must then supply sufficient evidence that this is the case. The Commission is obliged to investigate these cases and either overturn the original registrations or request the country to withdraw its temporary restriction.\n\nThe level of regulation in other countries lies in between Europe and the United States. Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (COMASA) is responsible for assessing the safety of GMOs in most of Africa, although the final decision lies with each individual country. India and China are the two largest producers of genetically modified products in Asia. The Office of Agricultural Genetic Engineering Biosafety Administration (OAGEBA) is responsible for regulation in China, while in India it is the Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBSC), Review Committee on Genetic Manipulation (RCGM) and Genetic Engineering Approval Committee (GEAC). Brazil and Argentina are the 2nd and 3rd largest producers of GM food. In Argentine assessment of GM products for release is provided by the National Agricultural Biotechnology Advisory Committee (environmental impact), the National Service of Health and Agrifood Quality (food safety) and the National Agribusiness Direction (effect on trade), with the final decision made by the Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock, Fishery and Food. In Brazil the National Biosafety Technical Commission is responsible for assessing environmental and food safety and prepares guidelines for transport, importation and field experiments involving GM products, while the Council of Ministers evaluates the commercial and economical issues with release. Health Canada and the Canadian Food Inspection Agency are responsible for evaluating the safety and nutritional value of genetically modified foods released in Canada. License applications for the release of all genetically modified organisms in Australia is overseen by the Office of the Gene Technology Regulator, while regulation is provided by the Therapeutic Goods Administration for GM medicines or Food Standards Australia New Zealand for GM food. The individual state governments can then assess the impact of release on markets and trade and apply further legislation to control approved genetically modified products.\n\nOne of the key issues concerning regulators is whether GM products should be labeled. Labeling can be mandatory up to a threshold GM content level (which varies between countries) or voluntary. A study investigating voluntary labeling in South Africa found that 31% of products labeled as GMO-free had a GM content above 1.0%. In Canada and the United States labeling of GM food is voluntary, while in Europe all food (including processed food) or feed which contains greater than 0.9% of approved GMOs must be labelled. In the US state of Oregon., voters rejected Measure 27, which would have required labeling of all genetically modified foods. Japan, Malaysia, New Zealand, and Australia require labeling so consumers can exercise choice between foods that have genetically modified, conventional or organic origins.\n\nThe Cartagena Protocol sets the requirements for the international trade of GMO's between countries that are signatories to it. Any shipments contain geneticially modified organisms that are intended to be used as feed, food or for processing must be identified and a list of the transgenic events be available.\n\n\"Substantial equivalence\" is a starting point for the safety assessment for GM foods that is widely used by national and international agencies—including the Canadian Food Inspection Agency, Japan's Ministry of Health and Welfare and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, the United Nation’s Food and Agriculture Organization, the World Health Organization and the OECD.\n\nA quote from FAO, one of the agencies that developed the concept, is useful for defining it: \"Substantial equivalence embodies the concept that if a new food or food component is found to be substantially equivalent to an existing food or food component, it can be treated in the same manner with respect to safety (i.e., the food or food component can be concluded to be as safe as the conventional food or food component)\". The concept of substantial equivalence also recognises the fact that existing foods often contain toxic components (usually called antinutrients) and are still able to be consumed safely—in practice there is some tolerable chemical risk taken with all foods, so a comparative method for assessing safety needs to be adopted. For instance, potatoes and tomatoes can contain toxic levels of respectively, solanine and alpha-tomatine alkaloids.\n\nTo decide if a modified product is substantially equivalent, the product is tested by the manufacturer for unexpected changes in a limited set of components such as toxins, nutrients, or allergens that are present in the unmodified food. The manufacturer's data is then assessed by a regulatory agency, such as the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. That data, along with data on the genetic modification itself and resulting proteins (or lack of protein), is submitted to regulators. If regulators determine that the submitted data show no significant difference between the modified and unmodified products, then the regulators will generally not require further food safety testing. However, if the product has no natural equivalent, or shows significant differences from the unmodified food, or for other reasons that regulators may have (for instance, if a gene produces a protein that had not been a food component before), the regulators may require that further safety testing be carried out.\n\nA 2003 review in \"Trends in Biotechnology\" identified seven main parts of a standard safety test:\n\n\nThere has been discussion about applying new biochemical concepts and methods in evaluating substantial equivalence, such as metabolic profiling and protein profiling. These concepts refer, respectively, to the complete measured biochemical spectrum (total fingerprint) of compounds (metabolites) or of proteins present in a food or crop. The goal would be to compare overall the biochemical profile of a new food to an existing food to see if the new food's profile falls within the range of natural variation already exhibited by the profile of existing foods or crops. However, these techniques are not considered sufficiently evaluated, and standards have not yet been developed, to apply them.\n\nTransgenic animals have genetically modified DNA. Animals are different from plants in a variety of ways—biology, life cycles, or potential environmental impacts. GM plants and animals were being developed around the same time, but due to the complexity of their biology and inefficiency with laboratory equipment use, their appearance in the market was delayed.\n\nThere are six categories that genetically engineered (GE) animals are approved for:\n\n"}
{"id": "11539976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11539976", "title": "Security breach notification laws", "text": "Security breach notification laws\n\nSecurity breach notification laws or data breach notification laws are laws that require an entity that has been subject to a data breach to notify their customers and other parties about the breach and take other steps to remediate injuries caused by the breach. Such laws have been enacted in all 50 U.S. states since 2002. These laws were enacted in response to an escalating number of breaches of consumer databases containing personally identifiable information.\n\nThe first such law, the California data security breach notification law, was enacted in 2002 and became effective on July 1, 2003. As related in the bill statement, law requires \"a state agency, or a person or business that conducts business in California, that owns or licenses computerized data that includes personal information, as defined, to disclose in specified ways, any breach of the security of the data, as defined, to any resident of California whose unencrypted personal information was, or is reasonably believed to have been, acquired by an unauthorized person.\" In addition, the law permits delayed notification \"if a law enforcement agency determines that it would impede a criminal investigation.\" The law also requires any entity that licenses such information to notify the owner or licensee of the information of any breach of the security of the data.\n\nIn general, most state laws follow the basic tenets of California's original law: Companies must immediately disclose a data breach to customers, usually in writing. California has since broadened its law to include compromised medical and health insurance information.\n\nThe National Conference of State Legislatures maintains a list of enacted and proposed security breach notification laws.\n\nA number of bills that would establish a national standard for data security breach notification have been introduced in the U.S. Congress, but none passed in the 109th Congress. In his 2015 State of the Union speech, President Obama proposed new legislation to create a national data breach standard that would establish a 30-day notification requirement from the discovery of a breach.\n\nThe European Union implemented a breach notification law in the Directive on Privacy and Electronic Communications (E-Privacy Directive) in 2009, specific to personal data held by telecoms and Internet service providers. This directive has to be implemented by national law until 25 May 2011.\n\nFurthermore, the traffic data of the subscribers, who use voice and data via a network company, are saved from the company only for operational reasons. However, the traffic data must be deleted when they aren’t necessary anymore, in order to avoid the breaches.\nOn the other hand, the traffic data are necessary for the creation and treatment of subscriber billing. The use of these data is available only up to the end of the period that the bill can be repaid based on the law of European Union (Article 6 - paragraphs 1-6 ).\nRegarding the marketing usage of the traffic data for the sale of additional chargeable services, they can be used from the company only if the subscriber gives his/her consent (but, the consent can be withdrawn at every time). Also, the service provider must inform the subscriber or user of the types of traffic data which are processed and of the duration of that based on the above assumptions. Processing of traffic data, in accordance with the above details, must be restricted to persons acting under the authority of providers of the public communications networks and publicly available electronic communications services handling billing or traffic management, customer enquiries, fraud detection, marketing electronic communications services or providing a value added service, and must be restricted to what is necessary for the purposes of such activities.\n\n"}
{"id": "236331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=236331", "title": "Sexual harassment", "text": "Sexual harassment\n\nSexual harassment is bullying or coercion of a sexual nature and the unwelcome or inappropriate promise of rewards in exchange for sexual favors. Sexual harassment includes a range of actions from mild transgressions to sexual abuse or assault. A harasser may be the victim's supervisor, a supervisor in another area, a co-worker, or a client or customer. Harassers or victims may be of any gender.\n\nIn most modern legal contexts, sexual harassment is illegal. Laws surrounding sexual harassment generally do not prohibit simple teasing, offhand comments, or minor isolated incidents—that is due to the fact that they do not impose a \"general civility code\". In the workplace, harassment may be considered illegal when it is frequent or severe thereby creating a hostile or offensive work environment or when it results in an adverse employment decision (such as the victim's demotion, firing or quitting). The legal and social understanding of sexual harassment, however, varies by culture.\n\nSexual harassment by an employer is a form of illegal employment discrimination. For many businesses or organizations, preventing sexual harassment and defending employees from sexual harassment charges have become key goals of legal decision-making.\n\nThe modern legal understanding of sexual harassment was first developed in the 1970s, although related concepts have existed in many cultures.\n\nAlthough legal activist Catharine MacKinnon is sometimes credited with creating the laws surrounding sexual harassment in the United States with her 1979 book entitled \"Sexual Harassment of Working Women\", the first known use of the term \"sexual harassment\" was in a 1973 report about discrimination called \"Saturn's Rings\" by Mary Rowe, Ph.D. though Rowe has stated that sexual harassment was being discussed in women's groups in Massachusetts in the early 1970s, and wasn't likely the first person to use the term. At the time, Rowe was the Chancellor for Women and Work at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). Due to her efforts at MIT, the university was one of the first large organizations in the U.S. to develop specific policies and procedures aimed at stopping sexual harassment.\n\nIn the book \"In Our Time: Memoir of a Revolution\" (1999), journalist Susan Brownmiller quotes Cornell University activists who believed they had coined the term 'sexual harassment' in 1975 after being asked for help by Carmita Dickerson Wood, a 44-year-old single mother who was being harassed by a faculty member at Cornell's Department of Nuclear Physics.\n\nThese activists, Lin Farley, Susan Meyer, and Karen Sauvigne went on to form the Working Women's Institute which, along with the Alliance Against Sexual Coercion (founded in 1976 by Freada Klein, Lynn Wehrli, and Elizabeth Cohn-Stuntz), were among the pioneer organizations to bring sexual harassment to public attention in the late 1970s. One of the first legal formulations of the concept of sexual harassment as consistent with sex discrimination and therefore prohibited behavior under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 appeared in the 1979 seminal book by Catharine MacKinnon entitled \"Sexual Harassment of Working Women\".\n\nSexual harassment first became codified in U.S. law as the result of a series of sexual harassment cases in the 1970s and 1980s. Many of the early women pursuing these cases were African American, often former civil rights activists who applied principles of civil rights to sex discrimination.\n\n\"Williams v. Saxbe\" (1976) and \"Paulette L. Barnes, Appellant, v. Douglas M. Costle, Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency\" (1977) determined it was sex discrimination to fire someone for refusing a supervisor's advances. Around the same time, \"Bundy v. Jackson\" was the first federal appeals court case to hold that workplace sexual harassment was employment discrimination. Five years later the Supreme Court agreed with this holding in \"Meritor Savings Bank v. Vinson.\" Another pioneering legal case was \"Alexander v. Yale\", which established that the sexual harassment of female students could be considered sex discrimination under Title IX, and was thus illegal.\n\nThe term was largely unknown (outside academic and legal circles) until the early 1990s when Anita Hill witnessed and testified against Supreme Court of the United States nominee Clarence Thomas. Since Hill testified in 1991, the number of sexual harassment cases reported in the US and Canada increased 58 percent and have climbed steadily.\n\nSexual harassment may occur in a variety of circumstances—in workplaces as varied as factories, school, college, acting, and the music business. Often, the perpetrator is in a position of power or authority over the victim (due to differences in age, or social, political, educational or employment relationships). They can also be expecting to receive such power or authority in form of promotion. Forms of harassment relationships include:\n\nWith the advent of the internet, social interactions, including sexual harassment, increasingly occur online, for example in video games or in chat rooms.\n\nAccording to the 2014 PEW research statistics on online harassment, 25% of women and 13% of men between the ages of 18 and 24 have experienced sexual harassment while online.\n\nThe United States' Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) defines workplace sexual harassment as \"unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature constitute sexual harassment when this conduct explicitly or implicitly affects an individual's employment, unreasonably interferes with an individual's work performance, or creates an intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment” (EEOC).\n\nStudies of sexual harassment have found that it is markedly more common in the military than in civilian settings. A Canadian study found that key risk factors associated with military settings are the typically young age of personnel, the 'isolated and integrated' nature of accommodation, the minority status of women, and the disproportionate number of men in senior positions. The traditionally masculine values and behaviours that are rewarded and reinforced in military settings, as well as their emphasis on conformity and obedience, are also thought to play a role. Canadian research has also found that the risk increases during deployment on military operations.\n\nWhile some male military personnel are sexually harassed, women are substantially more likely to be affected. Women who are younger and joined the military at a younger age face a greater risk, according to American, British and French research.\n\nChild recruits (under the age of 18) and children in cadet forces also face an elevated risk. In the UK, for example, hundreds of complaints of the sexual abuse of cadets have been recorded since 2012. In Canada, one in ten complaints of sexual assault in military settings are from child cadets or their parents.\n\nIndividuals detained by the military are also vulnerable to sexual harassment. During the Iraq War, for example, personnel of the US army and US Central Intelligence Agency committed a number of human rights violations against detainees in the Abu Ghraib prison, including rape, sodomy, and other forms of sexual abuse.\n\nAlthough the risk of sexual misconduct in the armed forces is widely acknowledged, personnel are frequently reluctant to report incidents, typically out of fear of reprisals, according to research in Australia, Canada, France, the UK, and the US.\n\nWomen affected by sexual harassment are more likely than other women to suffer stress-related mental illness afterwards. Research in the US found that when sexual abuse of female military personnel is psychiatrically traumatic, the odds of suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) after deployment on operations increase by a factor of nine.\n\nOne of the difficulties in understanding sexual harassment is that it involves a range of behaviors. In most cases (although not in all cases) it is difficult for the victim to describe what they experienced. This can be related to difficulty classifying the situation or could be related to stress and humiliation experienced by the recipient. Moreover, behavior and motives vary between individual cases.\n\nAuthor Martha Langelan describes four different classes of harassers.\n\nSexual harassment and assault may be prevented by secondary school, college, and workplace education programs. At least one program for fraternity men produced \"sustained behavioral change\".\n\nMany sororities and fraternities in the United States take preventative measures against hazing and hazing activities during the participants' pledging processes (which may often include sexual harassment). Many Greek organizations and universities nationwide have anti-hazing policies that explicitly recognize various acts and examples of hazing, and offer preventative measures for such situations.\n\nAnti-sexual harassment training programs have little evidence of effectiveness and \"Some studies suggest that training may in fact backfire, reinforcing gendered stereotypes that place women at a disadvantage\".\n\nThe impact of sexual harassment can vary. In research carried out by the EU Fundamental Rights Agency, 17,335 female victims of sexual assault were asked to name the feelings that resulted from the most serious incident of sexual assault that they had encountered since the age of 15. 'Anger, annoyance, and embarrassment were the most common emotional responses, with 45% of women feeling anger, 41% annoyance, and 36% embarrassment. Furthermore, close to one in three women (29%) who has experienced sexual harassment have said that they felt fearful as a result of the most serious incident, while one in five (20%) victims say that the most serious incident made themselves feel ashamed of what had taken place. In other situations, harassment may lead to temporary or prolonged stress or depression depending on the recipient's psychological abilities to cope and the type of harassment and the social support or lack thereof for the recipient. Psychologists and social workers report that severe or chronic sexual harassment can have the same psychological effects as rape or sexual assault. Victims who do not submit to harassment may also experience various forms of retaliation, including isolation and bullying.\n\nAs an overall social and economic effect every year, sexual harassment deprives women from active social and economic participation and costs hundreds of millions of dollars in lost educational and professional opportunities for mostly girls and women. However, the quantity of men implied in these conflicts is significant.\n\nSexual harassment, by definition, is unwanted and not to be tolerated. There are ways, however, for offended and injured people to overcome the resultant psychological effects, remain in or return to society, regain healthy feelings within personal relationships when they were affected by the outside relationship trauma, regain social approval, and recover the ability to concentrate and be productive in educational and work environments. These include stress management and therapy, cognitive-behavioral therapy, friends and family support, and advocacy.\n\nImmediate psychological and legal counseling are recommended since self-treatment may not release stress or remove trauma, and simply reporting to authorities may not have the desired effect, may be ignored, or may further injure the victim at its response.\n\nA 1991 study done by K.R. Yount found three dominant strategies developed by a sample of women coal miners to manage sexual harassment on the job: the \"lady\", the \"flirt\", and the \"tomboy\".\nThe \"ladies\" were typically the older women workers who tended to disengage from the men, kept their distance, avoided using profanity, avoided engaging in any behavior that might be interpreted as suggestive. They also tended to emphasize by their appearance and manners that they were ladies. The consequences for the \"ladies\" were that they were the targets of the least amount of come-ons, teasing and sexual harassment, but they also accepted the least prestigious and lowest-paid jobs.\n\nThe \"flirts\" were most often the younger single women. As a defense mechanism, they pretended to be flattered when they were the targets of sexual comments. Consequently, they became perceived as the \"embodiment of the female stereotype...as particularly lacking in potential and were given the fewest opportunities to develop job skills and to establish social and self-identities as miners.\"\n\nThe \"tomboys\" were generally single women, but were older than the \"flirts\". They attempted to separate themselves from the female stereotype and focused on their status as coal miners and tried to develop a \"thick skin\". They responded to harassment with humor, comebacks, sexual talk of their own, or reciprocation. As a result, they were often viewed as sluts or sexually promiscuous and as women who violated the sexual double standard. Consequently, they were subjected to intensified and increased harassment by some men. It was not clear whether the tomboy strategy resulted in better or worse job assignments.\n\nThe findings of this study may be applicable to other work settings, including factories, restaurants, offices, and universities. The study concludes that individual strategies for coping with sexual harassment are not likely to be effective and may have unexpected negative consequences for the workplace and may even lead to increased sexual harassment. Women who try to deal with sexual harassment on their own, regardless of what they do, seem to be in a no-win situation.\n\nCommon psychological, academic, professional, financial, and social effects of sexual harassment and retaliation:\n\nSome of the psychological and health effects that can occur in someone who has been sexually harassed as a result of stress and humiliation:\ndepression; anxiety; panic attacks; sleeplessness; nightmares; shame; guilt; difficulty concentrating; headaches; fatigue; loss of motivation; stomach problems; eating disorders (such as weight loss or gain); alcoholism; feeling betrayed, violated, angry, violent towards the perpetrator, powerless or out of control; increased blood pressure; loss of confidence or self-esteem; withdrawal; isolation; overall loss of trust in people; traumatic stress; post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD); complex post-traumatic stress disorder; suicidal thoughts or attempts, and suicide.\n\nRetaliation and backlash against a victim are very common, particularly a complainant. Victims who speak out against sexual harassment are often labeled troublemakers who are on their own \"power trips\", or who are looking for attention. Similar to cases of rape or sexual assault, the victim often becomes the accused, with their appearance, private life, and character likely to fall under intrusive scrutiny and attack. They risk hostility and isolation from colleagues, supervisors, teachers, fellow students, and even friends. They may become the targets of mobbing or relational aggression.\n\nWomen are not necessarily sympathetic to female complainants who have been sexually harassed. If the harasser was male, internalized sexism (or jealousy over the sexual attention towards the victim) may encourage some women to react with as much hostility towards the complainant as some male colleagues. Fear of being targeted for harassment or retaliation themselves may also cause some women to respond with hostility. For example, when Lois Jenson filed her lawsuit against Eveleth Taconite Co., the women shunned her both at work and in the community—many of these women later joined her suit. Women may even project hostility onto the victim in order to bond with their male coworkers and build trust.\n\nRetaliation has occurred when a sexual harassment victim suffers a negative action as a result of the harassment. For example, a complainant be given poor evaluations or low grades, have their projects sabotaged, be denied work or academic opportunities, have their work hours cut back, and other actions against them which undermine their productivity, or their ability to advance at work or school, being fired after reporting sexual harassment or leading to unemployment as they may be suspended, asked to resign, or be fired from their jobs altogether. Retaliation can even involve further sexual harassment, and also stalking and cyberstalking of the victim. Moreover, a school professor or employer accused of sexual harassment, or who is the colleague of a perpetrator, can use their power to see that a victim is never hired again(blacklisting), or never accepted to another school.\n\nOf the women who have approached her to share their own experiences of being sexually harassed by their teachers, feminist and writer Naomi Wolf wrote in 2004:\n\nI am ashamed of what I tell them: that they should indeed worry about making an accusation because what they fear is likely to come true. Not one of the women I have heard from had an outcome that was not worse for her than silence. One, I recall, was drummed out of the school by peer pressure. Many faced bureaucratic stonewalling. Some women said they lost their academic status as golden girls overnight; grants dried up, letters of recommendation were no longer forthcoming. No one was met with a coherent process that was not weighted against them. Usually, the key decision-makers in the college or university—especially if it was a private university—joined forces to, in effect, collude with the faculty member accused; to protect not him necessarily but the reputation of the university, and to keep information from surfacing in a way that could protect other women. The goal seemed to be not to provide a balanced forum, but damage control.\n\nAnother woman who was interviewed by sociologist Helen Watson said, \"Facing up to the crime and having to deal with it in public is probably worse than suffering in silence. I found it to be a lot worse than the harassment itself.\"\n\nBacklash stress is stress resulting from an uncertainty regarding changing norms for interacting with women in the workplace. Backlash stress now deters many male workers from befriending female colleagues, or providing them with any assistance, such as holding doors open. As a result, women are being handicapped by a lack of the necessary networking and mentorship.\n\nMost companies have policies against sexual harassment, however these policies are not designed and should not attempt to \"regulate romance\" which goes against human urges.\n\nAct upon a report of harassment inside the organization should be:\n\nWhen organizations do not take the respective satisfactory measures for properly investigating, stress and psychological counseling and guidance, and just deciding of the problem this could lead to:\n\nStudies show that organizational climate (an organization's tolerance, policy, procedure etc.) and workplace environment are essential for understanding the conditions in which sexual harassment is likely to occur, and the way its victims will be affected (yet, research on specific policy and procedure, and awareness strategies is lacking). Another element which increases the risk for sexual harassment is the job’s gender context (having few women in the close working environment or practicing in a field which is atypical for women).\n\nAccording to Dr. Orit Kamir, the most effective way to avoid sexual harassment in the workplace, and also influence the public’s state of mind, is for the employer to adopt a clear policy prohibiting sexual harassment and to make it very clear to their employees. Many women prefer to make a complaint and to have the matter resolved within the workplace rather than to \"air out the dirty laundry\" with a public complaint and be seen as a traitor by colleagues, superiors and employers, adds Kamir.\n\nMost prefer a pragmatic solution that would stop the harassment and prevent future contact with the harasser rather than turning to the police. More about the difficulty in turning an offense into a legal act can be found in Felstiner & Sarat's (1981) study, which describes three steps a victim (of any dispute) must go through before turning to the justice system: naming – giving the assault a definition, blaming – understanding who is responsible for the violation of rights and facing them, and finally, claiming – turning to the authorities.\n\nIt may include a range of actions from mild transgressions to sexual abuse or sexual assault. Sexual harassment is a form of illegal employment discrimination in many countries, and is a form of abuse (sexual and psychological abuses) and bullying.\n\nThe Declaration on the Elimination of Violence Against Women classifies violence against women into three categories: that occurring in the family, that occurring within the general community, and that perpetrated or condoned by the State. The term \"sexual harassment\" is used in defining violence occurring in the general community, which is defined as: \"Physical, sexual and psychological violence occurring within the general community, including rape, sexual abuse, sexual harassment and intimidation at work, in educational institutions and elsewhere, trafficking in women and forced prostitution.\"\n\nSexual harassment is subject to a directive in the European Union. The United States' Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) states, \"It is unlawful to harass a person (an applicant or employee) because of that person's sex.\"\n\nIn India, the case of Vishakha and others v State of Rajasthan in 1997 has been credited with establishing sexual harassment as illegal. In Israel, the 1988 Equal Employment Opportunity Law made it a crime for an employer to retaliate against an employee who had rejected sexual advances, but it wasn't until 1998 that the Israeli Sexual Harassment Law made such behavior illegal.\n\nIn May 2002, the European Union Council and Parliament amended a 1976 Council Directive on the equal treatment of men and women in employment to prohibit sexual harassment in the workplace, naming it a form of sex discrimination and violation of dignity. This Directive required all Member States of the European Union to adopt laws on sexual harassment, or amend existing laws to comply with the Directive by October 2005.\n\nIn 2005, China added new provisions to the \"Law on Women's Right Protection\" to include sexual harassment. In 2006, \"The Shanghai Supplement\" was drafted to help further define sexual harassment in China.\n\nSexual harassment was specifically criminalized for the first time in modern Egyptian history in June 2014.\n\nSexual harassment remains legal in Kuwait and Djibouti.\n\nThe United Nations General Recommendation 19 to the Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination Against Women defines sexual harassment of women to include:\n\nsuch unwelcome sexually determined behavior as physical contact and advances, sexually colored remarks, showing pornography and sexual demands, whether by words or actions. Such conduct can be humiliating and may constitute a health and safety problem; it is discriminatory when the woman has reasonable ground to believe that her objection would disadvantage her in connection with her employment, including recruitment or promotion, or when it creates a hostile working environment.\n\nWhile such conduct can be harassment of women by men, many laws around the world which prohibit sexual harassment recognize that both men and women may be harassers or victims of sexual harassment. However, most claims of sexual harassment are made by women.\n\nThere are many similarities, and also important differences in laws and definitions used around the world.\n\nIn 2016 a stricter law proscribing sexual harassment was proposed in Morocco specifying fines and a possible jail sentence of up to 6 months. The existing law against harassment was reported to not be upheld, as harassment was not reported to police by victims and even when reported, was not investigated by police or prosecuted by the courts.\n\nThe Sex Discrimination Act 1984 defines sexual harassment as \"... a person sexually harasses another person (the person harassed ) if: (a) the person makes an unwelcome sexual advance, or an unwelcome request for sexual favours, to the person harassed; or (b) engages in other unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature in relation to the person harassed; in circumstances in which a reasonable person, having regard to all the circumstances, would have anticipated the possibility that the person harassed would be offended, humiliated or intimidated.\"\n\nIn the European Union, there is a directive on sexual harassment. The \"Directive 2002/73/EC - equal treatment of 23 September 2002 amending Council Directive 76/207/EEC on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment for men and women as regards access to employment, vocational training and promotion, and working conditions\" states:\nFor the purposes of this Directive, the following definitions shall apply: (...)\nHarassment and sexual harassment within the meaning of this Directive shall be deemed to be discrimination on the grounds of sex and therefore prohibited.\n\nThe Convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence also addresses the issue of sexual harassment (Article 40), using a similar definition.\n\nSexual harassment is defined as, when any verbal, non-verbal or physical action is used to change a victim's sexual status against the will of the victim and resulting in the victim feeling inferior or hurting the victim's dignity. Man and woman are looked upon as equal, and any action trying to change the balance in status with the differences in sex as a tool, is also sexual harassment. In the workplace, jokes, remarks, etc., are only deemed discriminatory if the employer has stated so in their written policy. Law number 1385 of December 21, 2005 regulates this area.\n\nIn France, both the Criminal Code and the Labor Code are relevant to the issue of sexual harassment. Until May 4, 2012, article 222-33 of the French Criminal Code described sexual harassment as \"The fact of harassing anyone in order to obtain favors of a sexual nature\". Since 2002, it recognized the possibility of sexual harassment between co-workers and not only by supervisors. On May 4, 2012, the Conseil constitutionnel (French Supreme Court) quashed the definition of the criminal code as being too vague. The 2012 decision resulted from a law on priority preliminary rulings on the issue of constitutionality. As a consequence of this decision, all pending procedures before criminal courts were cancelled. Several feminist NGOs, such as AFVT, criticized this decision. President François Hollande, the Minister of Justice (Christine Taubira) and the Minister of Equality (Najat Belkacem) asked that a new law be voted rapidly. As a result, \"LOI n°2012-954 du 6 août 2012\" was voted in, providing a new definition. In addition to criminal provisions, the French Labor code also prohibits sexual harassment. The legislator voted a law in 2008 that copied the 2002/73/EC Directive definition without modifying the French Labour Code.\n\nSexual harassment is no statutory offense in Germany. In special cases it might be chargeable as \"Insult\" (with sexual context) as per § 185 Strafgesetzbuch but only if \"special circumstances\" show an insulting nature.\n\nThe victim has only a right to self-defend while the attack takes place. If a perpetrator kisses or gropes the victim, they may only fight back while this is happening. If the victim would, for instance, slap back after the attacker already stopped, the victim might be chargeable for assault as per § 223 Strafgesetzbuch.\n\nIn June 2016 the governing coalition decided about the key points of a tightening of the law governing sexual offenses (Sexualstrafrecht, literally: law on the punishment of sexual delicts). At July 7, 2016 the Bundestag passed the resolution and by autumn 2016 the draft bill will be presented to the second chamber, the Bundesrat. By this change, sexual harassment shall become punishable under the Sexualstrafrecht.\n\nIn response to the EU Directive 2002/73/EC, Greece enacted Law 3488/2006 (O.G.A.'.191). The law specifies that sexual harassment is a form of gender-based discrimination in the workplace. Victims also have the right to compensation. Prior to this law, the policy on sexual harassment in Greece was very weak. Sexual harassment was not defined by any law, and victims could only use general laws, which were very poor in addressing the issue.\n\nIn the Criminal Code, Russian Federation, (CC RF), there exists a law which prohibits utilization of an office position and material dependence for coercion of sexual interactions (Article 118, current CC RF). However, according to the Moscow Center for Gender Studies, in practice, the courts do not examine these issues.\n\n\"The Daily Telegraph\" quotes a survey in which \"100 percent of female professionals [in Russia] said they had been subjected to sexual harassment by their bosses, 32 per cent said they had had intercourse with them at least once and another seven per cent claimed to have been raped.\"\n\nA ban on discrimination was included in the Federal Constitution (Article 4, Paragraph 2 of the old Federal Constitution) in 1981 and adopted in Article 8, paragraph 2 of the revised Constitution. The ban on sexual harassment in the workplace forms part of the Federal Act on Gender Equality (GEA) of 24 March 1995, where it is one of several provisions which prohibit discrimination in employment and which are intended to promote equality. Article 4 of the GEA defines the circumstances, Article 5 legal rights and Article 10 protection against dismissal during the complaints procedure. Article 328, paragraph 1 of the Code of Obligations (OR), Article 198 (2) of the Penal Code (StGB) and Article 6, paragraph 1 of the Employment Act (ArG) contain further statutory provisions on the ban on sexual harassment. The ban on sexual harassment is intended exclusively for employers, within the scope of their responsibility for protection of legal personality, mental and physical well-being and health.\n\nArticle 4 of the GEA of 1995 discusses the topic of sexual harassment in the workplace: \"Any harassing behaviour of a sexual nature or other behaviour related to the person's sex that adversely affects the dignity of women or men in the workplace is discriminatory. Such behaviour includes in particular threats, the promise of advantages, the use of coercion and the exertion of pressure in order to obtain favours of a sexual nature.\"\n\nThe Discrimination Act of 1975, was modified to establish sexual harassment as a form of discrimination in 1986. It states that harassment occurs where there is unwanted conduct on the ground of a person's sex or unwanted conduct of a sexual nature and that conduct has the purpose or effect of violating a person's dignity, or of creating an intimidating, hostile, degrading, humiliating or offensive environment for them. If an employer treats someone less favourably because they have rejected, or submitted to, either form of harassment described above, this is also harassment.\n\nSexual harassment in India is termed \"Eve teasing\" and is described as: unwelcome sexual gesture or behaviour whether directly or indirectly as sexually coloured remarks; physical contact and advances; showing pornography; a demand or request for sexual favours; any other unwelcome physical, verbal or non-verbal conduct being sexual in nature or passing sexually offensive and unacceptable remarks. The critical factor is the unwelcomeness of the behaviour, thereby making the impact of such actions on the recipient more relevant rather than intent of the perpetrator. According to the Indian constitution, sexual harassment infringes the fundamental right of a woman to gender equality under Article 14 and her right to life and live with dignity under Article 21.\n\nIn 1997, the Supreme Court of India in a Public Interest Litigation, defined sexual harassment at workplace, preventive measures and redress mechanism. The judgment is popularly known as Vishaka Judgment. In April 2013, India enacted its own law on sexual harassment in the workplace - The Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013. Almost 16 years after the Supreme Court's landmark guidelines on prevention of sexual harassment in the workplace (known as the \"Vishaka Guidelines\"), the Act has endorsed many of the guidelines, and is a step towards codifying gender equality. The Act is intended to include all women employees in its ambit, including those employed in the unorganized sector, as well as domestic workers.\n\nThe Act has identified sexual harassment as a violation of the fundamental rights of a woman to equality under articles 14 and 15 of the Constitution of India and her right to life and to live with dignity under article 21 of the Constitution; as well as the right to practice any profession or to carry on any occupation, trade or business which includes a right to a safe environment free from sexual harassment. The Act also states that the protection against sexual harassment and the right to work with dignity are universally recognized human rights by international conventions and instruments such as Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination against Women, which has been ratified on the 25th June, 1993 by the Government of India.\n\nThe Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 2013 introduced changes to the Indian Penal Code, making sexual harassment an expressed offense under Section 354 A, which is punishable up to three years of imprisonment and or with fine. The Amendment also introduced new sections making acts like disrobing a woman without consent, stalking and sexual acts by person in authority an offense.\n\nThe 1998 Israeli Sexual Harassment Law interprets sexual harassment broadly, and prohibits the behavior as a discriminatory practice, a restriction of liberty, an offense to human dignity, a violation of every person's right to elementary respect, and an infringement of the right to privacy. Additionally, the law prohibits intimidation or retaliation thus related to sexual harassment are defined by the law as \"prejudicial treatment\".\n\nSexual Harassment, or \"sekuhara\" in Japanese, appeared most dramatically in Japanese discourse in 1989, when a court case in Fukuoka ruled in favor of a woman who had been subjected to the spreading of sexual rumors by a co-worker. When the case was first reported, it spawned a flurry of public interest: 10 books were published, including English-language feminist guidebooks to ‘how not to harass women’ texts for men. Sekuhara was named 1989’s ‘Word of the Year.’ The case was resolved in the victim’s favor in 1992, awarding her about $13,000 in damages, the first sexual harassment lawsuit in Japanese history.\n\nLaws then established two forms of sexual harassment: \"daisho\", in which rewards or penalties are explicitly linked to sexual acts, and \"kankyo\", in which the environment is made unpleasant through sexual talk or jokes, touching, or hanging sexually explicit posters. This applies to everyone in an office, including customers.\n\nPakistan has promulgated harassment law in 2010 with nomenclature as \"The Protection Against Harassment of Women at The Workplace Act, 2010\".\nThis law defines the act of harassment in following terms.\n\"Harassment means any unwelcome sexual advance, request for sexual favors or other verbal or written communication or physical conduct of a sexual nature or sexually demeaning attitude, causing interference with work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or offensive work environment, or the attempt to punish the complainant for refusal to such a request or is made a condition for employment.\"\nPakistan has adopted a Code of Conduct for Gender Justice in the Workplace that will deal with cases of sexual harassment. The Alliance Against Sexual Harassment At workplace (AASHA) announced they would be working with the committee to establish guidelines for the proceedings. AASHA defines sexual harassment much the same as it is defined in the U.S. and other cultures.\n\nThe Anti-Sexual Harassment Act of 1995 was enacted:\n\nprimarily to protect and respect the dignity of workers, employees, and applicants for employment as well as students in educational institutions or training centers. This law, consisting of ten sections, provides for a clear definition of work, education or training-related sexual harassment and specifies the acts constituting sexual harassment. It likewise provides for the duties and liabilities of the employer in cases of sexual harassment, and sets penalties for violations of its provisions. It is to be noted that a victim of sexual harassment is not barred from filing a separate and independent action for damages and other relief aside from filing the charge for sexual harassment.\n\nIn the United States, the Civil Rights Act of 1964 prohibits employment discrimination based on race, sex, color, national origin or religion. Initially intended to only combat sexual harassment of females, {42 U.S.C. § 2000e-2} the prohibition of sex discrimination covers males and females. This discrimination occurs when the sex of the worker is made as a condition of employment (i.e. all female waitpersons or male carpenters) or where this is a job requirement that does not mention sex but ends up preventing many more persons of one sex than the other from the job (such as height and weight limits). This act only applies to employers with 15 or more employees.\n\n\"Barnes v. Train\" (1974) is commonly viewed as the first sexual harassment case in America, even though the term \"sexual harassment\" was not used. The term \"sexual harassment\" was coined and popularized by Lin Farley in 1975, based on a pattern she recognized during a 1974 Cornell University class she taught on women and work. In 1976, \"Williams v. Saxbe\" established sexual harassment as a form of sex discrimination when sexual advances by a male supervisor towards a female employee, if proven, would be deemed an artificial barrier to employment placed before one gender and not another. In 1980 the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) issued regulations defining sexual harassment and stating it was a form of sex discrimination prohibited by the Civil Rights Act of 1964. In the 1986 case of \"Meritor Savings Bank v. Vinson\", the Supreme Court first recognized \"sexual harassment\" as a violation of Title VII, established the standards for analyzing whether the conduct was welcome and levels of employer liability, and that speech or conduct in itself can create a \"hostile environment\". This case filed by Mechelle Vinson ruled that the sexual conduct between the subordinate and supervisor could not be deemed voluntary due to the hierarchical relationship between the two positions in the workplace. Following the ruling of Meritor Savings Bank v. Vinson, reported sexual harassment cases grew from 10 cases being registered by the EEOC per year before 1986 to 624 case being reported in the subsequent following year. This number of reported cases to the EEOC rose to 2,217 in 1990 and then 4,626 by 1995.\n\nThe Civil Rights Act of 1991 added provisions to Title VII protections including expanding the rights of women to sue and collect compensatory and punitive damages for sexual discrimination or harassment, and the case of \"Ellison v. Brady\" resulted in rejecting the reasonable person standard in favor of the \"reasonable woman standard\" which allowed for cases to be analyzed from the perspective of the complainant and not the defendant. Also in 1991, \"Jenson v. Eveleth Taconite Co.\" became the first sexual harassment case to be given class action status paving the way for others. Seven years later, in 1998, through that same case, new precedents were established that increased the limits on the \"discovery\" process in sexual harassment cases, that then allowed psychological injuries from the litigation process to be included in assessing damages awards. In the same year, the courts concluded in \"Faragher v. City of Boca Raton, Florida\", and \"Burlington v. Ellerth\", that employers are liable for harassment by their employees. Moreover, \"Oncale v. Sundowner Offshore Services\" set the precedent for same-sex harassment, and sexual harassment without motivation of \"sexual desire\", stating that any discrimination based on sex is actionable so long as it places the victim in an objectively disadvantageous working condition, regardless of the gender of either the victim, or the harasser.\n\nIn the 2006 case of \"Burlington Northern & Santa Fe Railway Co. v. White\", the standard for retaliation against a sexual harassment complainant was revised to include any adverse employment decision or treatment that would be likely to dissuade a \"reasonable worker\" from making or supporting a charge of discrimination.\n\nDuring 2007 alone, the \"U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission\" and related state agencies received 12,510 new charges of sexual harassment on the job.\n\nThe 2010 case, Reeves v. C.H. Robinson Worldwide, Inc. ruled that a hostile work environment can be created in a workplace where sexually explicit language and pornography are present. A hostile workplace may exist even if it is not targeted at any particular employee.\n\nFrom 2010 through 2016, approximately 17% of sexual harassment complaints filed with the EEOC were made by men.\n\nTitle IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (United States) states \"No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance.\"\n\nIn \"Franklin v. Gwinnett County Public Schools\" (1992), the U.S. Supreme Court held that private citizens could collect damage awards when teachers sexually harassed their students. In \"Bethel School District No. 403 v. Fraser\" (1986) the courts ruled that schools have the power to discipline students if they use \"obscene, profane language or gestures\" which could be viewed as substantially interfering with the educational process, and inconsistent with the \"fundamental values of public school education.\" Under regulations issued in 1997 by the U.S. Department of Education, which administers Title IX, school districts should be held responsible for harassment by educators if the harasser \"was aided in carrying out the sexual harassment of students by his or her position of authority with the institution.\" In \"Davis v. Monroe County Board of Education\", and \"Murrell v. School Dist. No. 1\", 1999, schools were assigned liability for peer-to-peer sexual harassment if the plaintiff sufficiently demonstrated that the administration's response shows \"deliberate indifference\" to \"actual knowledge\" of discrimination.\n\nThere are a number of legal options for a complainant in the U.S.: mediation, filing with the EEOC or filing a claim under a state Fair Employment Practices (FEP) statute (both are for workplace sexual harassment), filing a common law tort, etc. Not all sexual harassment will be considered severe enough to form the basis for a legal claim. However, most often there are several types of harassing behaviors present, and there is no minimum level for harassing conduct under the law. The section below \"EEOC Definition\" describes the legal definitions that have been created for sexual harassment in the workplace. Definitions similar to the EEOC definition have been created for academic environments in the U.S. Department of Education Sexual Harassment Guidance.\n\nThe Equal Employment Opportunity Commission claims that it is unlawful to harass an applicant or employee of any sex in the workplace. The harassment could include sexual harassment. The EEOC says that the victim and harasser could be any gender and that the other does not have to be of the opposite sex. The law does not ban offhand comments, simple teasing, or incidents that aren't very serious. If the harassment gets to the point where it creates a harsh work environment, it will be taken care of. In 1980, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission produced a set of guidelines for defining and enforcing Title VII (in 1984 it was expanded to include educational institutions). The EEOC defines sexual harassment as:\n\nUnwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, or other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature when:\n\n1. and 2. are called \"quid pro quo\" (Latin for \"this for that\" or \"something for something\"). They are essentially \"sexual bribery\", or promising of benefits, and \"sexual coercion\".\n\nType 3. known as \"hostile work environment\", is by far the most common form. This form is less clear cut and is more subjective.\n\nNote: a workplace harassment complainant \"must\" file with the EEOC and receive a \"right to sue\" clearance, before they can file a lawsuit against a company in federal court.\n\nQuid pro quo means \"this for that\". In the workplace, this occurs when a job benefit is directly tied to an employee submitting to unwelcome sexual advances. For example, a supervisor promises an employee a raise if he or she will go out on a date with him or her, or tells an employee he or she will be fired if he or she doesn't sleep with him or her. Quid pro quo harassment also occurs when an employee makes an evaluative decision, or provides or withholds professional opportunities based on another employee's submission to verbal, nonverbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature. Quid pro quo harassment is equally unlawful whether the victim resists and suffers the threatened harm or submits and thus avoids the threatened harm.\n\nThis occurs when an employee is subjected to comments of a sexual nature, unwelcome physical contact, or offensive sexual materials as a regular part of the work environment. For the most part, a single isolated incident will not be enough to prove hostile environment harassment unless it involves extremely outrageous and egregious conduct. The courts will try to decide whether the conduct is both \"serious\" and \"frequent.\" Supervisors, managers, co-workers and even customers can be responsible for creating a hostile environment.\n\nThe line between \"quid pro quo\" and \"hostile environment\" harassment is not always clear and the two forms of harassment often occur together. For example, an employee's job conditions are affected when a sexually hostile work environment results in a constructive discharge. At the same time, a supervisor who makes sexual advances toward a subordinate employee may communicate an implicit threat to retaliate against her if she does not comply.\n\n\"Hostile environment\" harassment may acquire characteristics of \"quid pro quo\" harassment if the offending supervisor abuses his authority over employment decisions to force the victim to endure or participate in the sexual conduct. Sexual harassment may culminate in a retaliatory discharge if a victim tells the harasser or her employer she will no longer submit to the harassment, and is then fired in retaliation for this protest. Under these circumstances it would be appropriate to conclude that both harassment and retaliation in violation of section 704(a) of Title VII have occurred.\"\n\nIn the United States, there are no federal laws prohibiting discrimination against employees based on their sexual orientation. However, Executive Order 13087, signed by President Bill Clinton, outlaws discrimination based on sexual orientation against federal government employees. If a small business owner owns his or her business in a state where there is a law against sexual orientation discrimination, the owner must abide to the law regardless of there not being a federal law. Twenty states and the District of Columbia have laws against this form of discrimination in the workplace. These states include California, Connecticut, Colorado, Hawaii, Illinois, Iowa, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, Oregon, Rhode Island, Vermont, Washington, and Wisconsin. For example, California has laws in place to protect employees who may have been discriminated against based upon sexual orientation or perceived sexual orientation. California law prohibits discrimination against those \"with traits not stereotypically associated with their gender\", such as mannerisms, appearance, or speech. Sexual orientation discrimination comes up, for instance, when employers enforce a dress code, permit women to wear makeup but not men, or require men and women to only use restrooms designated for their particular sex regardless of whether they are transgender.\n\nRetaliation has occurred when an employee suffers a \"negative action\" after he or she has made a report of sexual harassment, file a grievance, assist someone else with a complaint, or participate in discrimination prevention activities. Negative actions can include being fired, demotion, suspension, denial of promotion, poor evaluation, unfavorable job reassignment—any adverse employment decision or treatment that would be likely to dissuade a \"reasonable worker\" from making or supporting a charge of discrimination. (See \"Burlington Northern & Santa Fe Railway Co. v. White\".) Retaliation is as illegal as the sexual harassment itself, but also as difficult to prove. Also, retaliation is illegal even if the original charge of sexual harassment was not proven.\n\nIn ancient Rome, according to Bruce W. Frier and Thomas A.J. McGinn, what is now called \"sexual harassment\" was then any of \"accosting\", \"stalking\", and \"abducting\". \"Accosting\" was \"harassment through attempted seduction\" or another's chastity with smooth talk ... contrary to good morals\", which was more than the lesser offense(s) of \"obscene speech, dirty jokes, and the like\", \"foul language\", and \"clamor\", with the accosting of \"respectable young girls\" who however were dressed in slaves' clothing being a lesser offense and the accosting of \"women ... dressed as prostitutes\" being an even lesser offense. \"Stalking\" was \"silently, persistently pursuing\" if it was \"contrary to good morals\", because a pursuer's \"ceaseless presence virtually ensures appreciable disrepute\". \"Abducting\" an attendant, who was someone who follows someone else as a companion and could be a slave, was \"successfully forcing or persuading the attendant to leave the side of the intended target\", but abducting while the woman \"has not been wearing respectable clothing\" was a lesser offense.\n\nThough the phrase \"sexual harassment\" is generally acknowledged to include clearly damaging and morally deplorable behavior, its boundaries can be broad and controversial. Accordingly, misunderstandings can occur. In the US, sexual harassment law has been criticized by persons such as the criminal defense lawyer Alan Dershowitz and the legal writer and libertarian Eugene Volokh, for imposing limits on the right to free speech.\n\nJana Rave, professor in organizational studies at the Queen's School of Business, criticized sexual harassment policy in the \"Ottawa Business Journal\" as helping maintain archaic stereotypes of women as \"delicate, asexual creatures\" who require special protection when at the same time complaints are lowering company profits. Camille Paglia says that young girls can end up acting in such ways as to make sexual harassment easier, such that for example, by acting \"nice\" they can become a target. Paglia commented in an interview with \"Playboy\", \"Realize the degree to which your niceness may invoke people to say lewd and pornographic things to you--sometimes to violate your niceness. The more you blush, the more people want to do it.\"\n\nOther critics assert that sexual harassment is a very serious problem, but current views focus too heavily on sexuality rather than on the type of conduct that undermines the ability of women or men to work together effectively. Viki Shultz, a law professor at Yale University comments, \"Many of the most prevalent forms of harassment are designed to maintain work—particularly the more highly rewarded lines of work—as bastions of male competence and authority.\" Feminist Jane Gallop sees this evolution of the definition of sexual harassment as coming from a \"split\" between what she calls \"power feminists\" who are pro-sex (like herself) and what she calls \"victim feminists\", who are not. She argues that the split has helped lead to a \"perversion\" of the definition of sexual harassment, which used to be about sexism but has come to be about anything that's sexual.\n\nThere is also concern over abuses of sexual harassment policy by individuals as well as by employers and administrators using false or frivolous accusations as a way of expelling employees they want to eliminate for other reasons. These employees often have virtually no recourse thanks to the at-will law in most US states.\n\nO'Donohue and Bowers outlined 14 possible pathways to false allegations of sexual harassment: \"lying, borderline personality disorder, histrionic personality disorder, psychosis, gender prejudice, substance abuse, dementia, false memories, false interpretations, biased interviews, sociopathy, personality disorders not otherwise specified.\"\n\nThere is also discussion of whether some recent trends towards more revealing clothing and permissive habits have created a more sexualized general environment, in which some forms of communication are unfairly labeled harassment, but are simply a reaction to greater sexualization in everyday environments.\n\nThere are many debates about how organizations should deal with sexual harassment. Some observers feel strongly that organizations should be held to a zero tolerance standard of \"Must report - must investigate - must punish.\"\n\nOthers write that those who feel harassed should in most circumstances have a choice of options.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2931091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2931091", "title": "Spousal privilege", "text": "Spousal privilege\n\nIn the common law, spousal privilege (also called marital privilege or husband-wife privilege) is a term used in the law of evidence to describe two separate privileges that apply to spouses: the spousal communications privilege and the spousal testimonial privilege.\n\nBoth types of privilege are based on the policy of encouraging spousal harmony and preventing spouses from having to condemn, or be condemned by, their spouses: the spousal communications privilege or confidences privilege is a form of privileged communication that protects the contents of confidential communications between spouses during their marriage from testimonial disclosure, while spousal testimonial privilege (also called spousal incompetency and spousal immunity) protects the individual holding the privilege from being called to testify in proceedings relating to his/her spouse. However, the spousal privileges have their roots in the legal fiction that a husband and wife were one person.\n\nIn the United States, federal case law dictates the privileges' permissible and prohibited invocation in federal trials, while state case law outlines their scope in state courts.\n\nA spousal communications privilege applies in civil and criminal cases.\n\nBoth the witness-spouse and the party-spouse hold the spousal communications privilege, so either may invoke it to prevent the witness-spouse from testifying about a confidential communication made during marriage.\n\nThe communications privilege begins on marriage, and can be invoked to protect confidential communications between now-married spouses that occurred prior to their marriage. Unlike testimonial privilege, the communications privilege survives the end of a marriage, and may be asserted by a spouse to protect confidential communications that were made during the marriage—even after divorce or death.\n\nThe spousal communications privilege may not be invoked if the spouses are suing each other or each other's estates in a civil case; if one of the spouses has initiated a criminal proceeding against the other; or in a competency proceeding regarding one of the spouses. These three scenarios are identical to the limitations which also apply to limit the spousal testimonial privilege. Two further scenarios apply to defeat the attachment of the spousal communications privilege: if the confidential communication was made in order to plan or commit crime or fraud, or if a defendant-spouse wishes, in a criminal trial, to testify in their own defense, about a confidential marital communication. In these five cases, a court will not allow either spouse to assert the privilege to block the testimony.\n\nA minority of states apply testimonial privilege in both criminal and civil cases. For example, under California Evidence Code (\"CEC\") §970, California permits the application of testimonial privilege to both civil and criminal cases, and includes both the privilege not to testify as well as the privilege not to be called as a witness by the party adverse to the interests of the spouse in the trial.\n\nUnder U.S. federal common law, the spousal testimonial privilege is held by the witness-spouse, not the party-spouse, and therefore does not prevent a spouse who wishes to testify from doing so. The rationale of this rule is that if a witness-spouse desires to testify against the party-spouse, there is no marital harmony left to protect through the obstruction of such testimony. This common law principle is the view in a minority of U.S. states. A majority of U.S. jurisdictions, however, do not follow U.S. federal common law; in most states, the party-spouse, and not the witness-spouse, is the holder of spousal testimonial privilege.\n\nSpousal testimonial privilege covers observations, such as the color of the clothing the party-spouse was wearing on a certain day, as well as communications, such as the content of a telephone conversation with the party-spouse.\n\nThe witness-spouse may invoke testimonial privilege regarding events which occurred (1) during the marriage, if the spouses are still married; and (2) prior to the marriage if he is married to his spouse in court proceedings at the time of trial. If, by the time the trial occurs, the spouses are no longer married, the former spouse-witness may testify freely about any events which occurred prior to, after, or even during the marriage. Spousal testimonial privilege, in other words, only lasts as long as the marriage does.\n\nSpousal testimonial privilege may not be invoked if the spouses are suing each other or each other's estates in a civil case; if one of the spouses has initiated a criminal proceeding against the other; or in a competency proceeding regarding one of the spouses.\n\nBoth rules may be suspended depending on the jurisdiction in the case of divorce proceedings or child custody disputes, but are suspended in cases where one spouse is accused of a crime against the other spouse or the spouse's child. Courts generally do not permit an adverse spouse to invoke either privilege during a trial initiated by the other spouse, or in the case of domestic abuse. The privileges may also be suspended where both spouses are joint participants in a crime, depending on the law of the jurisdiction.\n\nSpouses are, in general, both competent to give evidence in civil cases, and can be compelled to do so. This was established in section 1 of the Evidence Amendment Act 1853 and extended in the Evidence Further Amendment Act 1869 to proceedings instituted in consequence of adultery, the position on compulsion being clarified in \"Tilley v Tilley\" (1949).\n\nIn criminal cases, however, the common law long held that wives were not in general competent to give evidence against their husbands (i.e. for the prosecution). This derived from a view of husbands and wives as one person, which extended the defendant's protection against self-incrimination to their wife. A wife could however give evidence for the prosecution where her husband was accused of personal violence against her.\n\nSection 4(1) of the Criminal Evidence Act 1898 made spouses competent witnesses in many more circumstances, including giving evidence for the defence. It was initially assumed that the Act also meant spouses could be \"compelled\" to give evidence, but the House of Lords disagreed in \"Leach v R\" (1912).\n\nDistinguishing \"Leach\", the Court of Criminal Appeal held in \"R v Lapworth\" (1930) that spouses were nevertheless compellable witnesses for the prosecution in cases of personal violence, on the basis that the common law position prior to the 1898 Act had not been unaffected by its entry into law. However, in \"Hoskyn v Metropolitan Police Commissioner\" (1978) the House of Lords overruled \"Lapworth\", ending the personal violence exception in favour of spouses being competent but not compellable witnesses for the prosecution in all cases. In reaching this view, judges were swayed by the special status of marriage, and the \"natural repugnance\" that the public would feel at seeing a wife give evidence against her husband in a wide range of scenarios.\n\nThis lasted only until the entry into force of section 80 of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984, which restored the ability of the prosecution to compel the testimony of the husband or wife of the accused (later amended to include civil partners) where the defendant has been charged with \"assault on, or injury or a threat of injury to\" the spouse or a person under 16, or a sexual offence toward a persons under 16. In addition, under the 1984 Act, the defence can almost always compel testimony, and as set out in section 53 of the Youth Justice and Criminal Evidence Act 1999, spouses will generally be competent to offer their testimony voluntarily. However, where the spouse or civil partner is an active co-defendant to the charges, they may only testify for the defence (and cannot be compelled to testify by either side). No privilege extends to couples who are neither married nor in a civil partnership, a source of major criticism.\n\nThe existence of a communications privilege in the common law is disputed. Its existence was assumed by late nineteenth century writers, but Sir Wilfred Greene noted in \"Shenton v Tyler\" [1941] that having researched the subject he found no evidence to support this view. Rather, any such privilege was the result of statute, and, in particular, section 3 of the Evidence Amendment Act 1853 which provided that \"no husband shall be compellable to disclose any communication made to him by his wife during the marriage, and no wife shall be compellable to disclose any communication made to her by her husband during the marriage\". This provision was based on the Second Report of the Commissioners on Common Law Procedure, who referenced the \"inviolability of domestic confidence\". It was then repeated in section 1 of the Criminal Evidence Act 1898, which served to confirm its applicability to the criminal law.\n\nThe provision made in the 1853 Act was both limited – it did not extend to third party disclosure or prevent voluntary disclosure – and asymmetric, as it did not stop the speaker from being compelled to disclosure any communications, only the listener. As a result, in its Report on Privilege in Civil Proceedings published in December 1967 the English Law Reform Committee recommended its abolition in civil cases, which was done in the Civil Evidence Act 1968 and for criminal cases in the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984. The 1984 Act also repealed section 43(1) of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1965 (evidence as to marital intercourse).\n\nIn Australian law, both the common law privilege of confidentiality between married people and the privilege of spouses not to testify against each other were assumed to have continued with the \"reception\" of English law.\n\nOn 30 November 2011, the High Court of Australia decided that neither privilege existed in common law. However, a form of spousal privilege in regards to criminal trials is preserved by the Evidence Acts.\n\n"}
{"id": "4720758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4720758", "title": "Substantive rights", "text": "Substantive rights\n\nSubstantive rights are basic human rights possessed by people in an ordered society and include rights granted by natural law as well as the substantive law. Substantive rights involve a right to the substance of being human (life, liberty, happiness), rather than a right to a procedure to enforce that right, which is defined by procedural law.\n\n"}
{"id": "25678425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25678425", "title": "Sum certain", "text": "Sum certain\n\nA sum certain is a specified and set amount of money owed by one person to another. It is a legal term of art, having specialized meaning in the law. Some kinds of legal claims can not be brought at all unless the sum certain can be plead. A document claimed to be a negotiable instrument can not be negotiated unless it is for a sum certain.\n"}
{"id": "3979985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3979985", "title": "Tarnovo Constitution", "text": "Tarnovo Constitution\n\nThe Tarnovo Constitution (in Bulgarian: Търновска конституция) was the first constitution of Bulgaria.\n\nIt was adopted on 16 April 1879 (O.S.) by the Constituent National Assembly held in Veliko Tarnovo as part of the establishment of the Principality of Bulgaria. It remained the fundamental law of Bulgaria after the country was elevated to a kingdom in 1908.\nBased on the Belgian charter of 1831, the constitution was bourgeois-liberal in character, and was considered advanced for its time. It defined the function and competence of the central organs of state authority according to the principle of separation of powers among an executive, a legislative, and a judiciary branch. It provided for ministerial responsibility, immunity of the deputies, and inviolability of private property. The constitution included a clause that formally established the Bulgarian Orthodox Church as the official religion of the nation, although people of other religions were considered equal to those who followed the official faith.\n\nWith amendments in 1893 and 1911 that strengthened royal power, the Tarnovo Constitution remained in use until 4 December 1947, when it was replaced by the Dimitrov Constitution.\n\nAccording to the constitution of 1879, Bulgaria was declared to be a constitutional, hereditary monarchy with a parliament whose members were elected by the people. The monarch bore the title of Prince and not tsar, as it was during the First and the Second Bulgarian Empire, since the treaty of Berlin from 1878 restricted Bulgaria’s independence to a certain degree and made it a de facto vassal state of Turkey. The Prince was supposed to be male and of Orthodox religion, although, in a legal act, an exception to the religious restriction was made when electing Alexander of Battenberg as the first Prince.\n\nThe Prince had the power to initiate a legislative campaign and to coordinate the activities of the prime minister and the cabinet. Although the ministers were entitled to act as if they were representing the Prince, by signing with their own signature they agreed to take responsibility for what resulted from their actions. The Prince’s signature was also required for a bill to become law after it had passed through parliament.\n\nIn 1908, when Prince Ferdinand Saxe-Coburg-Gotha proclaimed the independence of Bulgaria, he raised the country to a kingdom and assumed the title \"tzar\" (translated as king outside of Bulgaria). The Tarnovo Constitution was amended to change the official name of the country to the \"Kingdom of Bulgaria\" and substituting the word \"Prince\" with \"tzar\" wherever it occurred throughout the document.\n\nIn accordance with its constitution, Bulgaria promulgated equality for all its citizens and, despite being a monarchy, prohibited the promotion of any kind of aristocratic titles. Censorship was prohibited, although the article which stated this was suspended several times. Article 61, which dealt with slavery and human trafficking, was one of the reasons why the Tarnovo Constitution was considered to be liberal and ahead of its time:\n\nThe Constitution declared property rights to be sacrosanct and implied that all citizens, except for the monarch and his successor, must pay taxes to the state. All (male) citizens were obliged to serve in the military; this requirement included the monarch (who was head of the military forces) and his successors. All citizens were allowed freedom of association, and were free to form political parties or start their own companies.\n\nThe Tarnovo Constitution prohibited punishment of a citizen whose case had not been examined by a court. This rule was ignored by the “People’s Tribunal” of 1945, during the Soviet occupation of the country. The tribunal did not hold the statute of а court yet passed on more than 10,000 sentences to people who were seen as a threat by the Bulgarian Communist Party, which was coming to power at the time.\n\nThe article prohibiting censorship was suspended in the 1880s by a law enforced by the Russian general Sobolev; this law restricted media to seven selected newspapers and magazines, and limited comments critical of the government. Similar regulations were in effect in the late era of Stefan Stambolov's government.\n\nIn 1881, the Grand National Assembly (the supreme form of parliament) was manipulated by the principal Alexander I of Battenberg in order to suspend the entire constitution. During the next seven years, the monarch had unlimited power and issued a series of ordinances which were only technically approved by the ministers. This period, which Bulgarian historians refer to as a regime, ended in 1888 when the constitution was restored.\n\nThe Tarnovo Constitution was temporarily suspended several times more, most notably during the Coup d’état of 1934 led by Kimon Georgiev and the Coup d’état of 1944 organized by the Bulgarian Communist Party.\n\nThe Referendum of 1946 led to the transition from a constitutional monarchy to a people’s republic. The referendum took place during the Soviet occupation of the country, was also technically illegal since the Tarnovo Constitution did not provide for a change in the type of government.\n\nThe Tarnovo Constitution was permanently abolished in 1947 when another one, bearing the name of the communist party’s leader Georgi Dimitrov, came into effect. The Dimitrov Constitution was a thoroughly Communist document that allowed censorship and the establishment of a one-party system while depriving citizens of certain fundamental rights including the right of private property.\n\n"}
{"id": "37400820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37400820", "title": "Tax evasion in the United States", "text": "Tax evasion in the United States\n\nUnder the federal law of the United States of America, tax evasion or tax fraud, is the purposeful illegal attempt of a taxpayer to evade assessment or payment of a tax imposed by Federal law. Conviction of tax evasion may result in fines and imprisonment.\n\nTax evasion is separate from \"tax avoidance\", which is the legal utilization of the tax regime to one's own advantage in order to reduce the amount of tax that is payable by means that are within the law. Tax evasion is illegal while tax avoidance is legal.\n\nIn \"Gregory v. Helvering\" the US Supreme Court concurred with Judge Learned Hand's statement that: \"Any one may so arrange his affairs that his taxes shall be as low as possible; he is not bound to choose that pattern which will best pay the Treasury; there is not even a patriotic duty to increase one's taxes.\" However, the court also ruled there was a duty not to illegally distort the tax code so as to evade paying one's legally required tax burden.\n\nThe tax code, 26 United States Code section 7201, provides:\n\nTo prove a violation of the statute, the prosecutor must show (1) the existence of a tax deficiency (an unpaid federal tax), (2) an affirmative act constituting an evasion or attempted evasion of either the assessment or payment of that tax, and (3) willfulness (connoting the voluntary, intentional violation of a known legal duty).\n\nA genuine, good faith belief that one is not violating the Federal tax law based on a misunderstanding caused by the complexity of the tax law is a defense to a charge of \"willfulness\", even though that belief is irrational or unreasonable. A belief that the Federal income tax is invalid or unconstitutional is not a misunderstanding caused by the complexity of the tax law, and is not a defense to a charge of \"willfulness\", even if that belief is genuine and is held in good faith.\n\nThe Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has identified small business and sole proprietorship employees as the largest contributors to the tax gap between what Americans owe in federal taxes and what the federal government receives. Small business and sole proprietorship employees contribute to the tax gap because there are few ways for the government to know about skimming or non-reporting of income without mounting more significant investigations.\n\nThe willful failures to report tips, income from side-jobs, other cash receipts, and barter income items are examples of illegal cheating. Similarly, those persons who are self-employed (or who run small businesses) evade the assessment or payment of taxes if they intentionally fail to report income. One study suggested that the fact that sharing economy firms like Airbnb, Lyft, and Etsy do not file 1099-K forms when participants earn less than $20,000 and have fewer than 200 transactions, results in significant unreported income. A recent survey found that the amount of unreported income for 2016 in the United States numbered at US $214.6 billion, with one in four Americans not reporting the money made on side-jobs.\n\nThe typical tax evader in the United States is a male under the age of 50 in the highest tax bracket and with a complicated return, and the most common means of tax evasion is overstatement of charitable contributions, particularly church donations.\n\nJurisdictions which allow for limiting taxation, known as tax havens, may be used for both legally avoiding taxes and illegally evading taxes. In 2010, the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act was passed to better enforce taxation in foreign jurisdictions.\n\nU.S. citizens are required to report unlawful gains as income when filing annual tax returns (see e.g., \"James v. United States\") although such income is typically not reported. Suspected lawbreakers, most famously Al Capone, have been successfully prosecuted for tax evasion when there was insufficient evidence to try them for their non-tax related crimes. Reporting illegal income as earned legitimately may be illegal money laundering.\n\nIn the United States, the IRS estimate of the 2001 tax gap was $345 billion. For 2006, the tax gap is estimated to be $450 billion.\n\nA more recent study estimates the 2008 tax gap in the range of $450 to $500 billion, and unreported income to be approximately $2 trillion. Thus, 18 to 19 percent of total reportable income is not properly reported to the IRS.\n\nBeginning in 1963 and continuing every 3 years until 1988, the IRS analyzed 45,000 to 55,000 randomly selected households for a detailed audit as part of the Taxpayer Compliance Measurement Program (TCMP) in an attempt to measure unreported income and the \"tax gap\". The program was discontinued in part due to its intrusiveness, but its estimates continued to be used as assumptions. In 2001, a modified random-sampling initiative called the National Research Program was used to sample 46,000 individual taxpayers and the IRS released updated estimates of the tax gap in 2005 and 2006. However, critics point out numerous problems with the tax gap measure. The IRS direct audit measures of noncompliance are augmented by indirect measurement methods, most prominently currency ratio models\n\nAfter the TCMP audits, the IRS focused on two groups of taxpayers: those with just a small change in the balance due, and those with a large (over $400) change in the balance due. Taxpayers were further partitioned into \"nonbusiness\" and \"business\" groups and each group was divided into five classes based on total positive income. Using line items from the auditor's checksheet, discriminant analysis, and a scoring mechanism, each return was awarded a score, known as a \"Z-score\". Higher Z-scores were associated by IRS personnel with a higher risk of tax evasion. However, the Discriminant Index Function (DIF) system did not provide examiners with specific problematic variables or reasons for the high score and so each filing had to be manually examined by an auditor.\n\nThe IRS may carry out investigations to determine the correctness of any tax return and collect necessary income tax, including requiring the taxpayer to provide specific information such as books, records, and papers. The IRS whistleblower award program was created to assist the IRS in obtaining necessary information. While these investigations can lead to criminal prosecution, the IRS itself has no power to prosecute crimes. The IRS can only impose monetary penalties and require payment of proper tax due. The IRS performs audits on suspicion of noncompliance but has also historically performed randomly selected audits to estimate total noncompliance; the former audits have much higher chance of noncompliance.\n\nUnder the net worth and cash expenditure methods of proof, the IRS performs year-by-year-by-year comparisons of net worth and cash expenditures to identify under reporting of net worth. While the net worth method and the cash accrual method may be used separately, they are often used in conjunction with one another. Under the net worth method, the IRS chooses a year to determine the taxpayer's opening net worth at year's end. This provides a snapshot of the taxpayer's net worth at a particular point in time.\n\nThe snapshot includes the taxpayer's cash on hand, bank accounts, brokerage (stocks and bonds), house, cars, beach house, jewelry, furs, and other similar items. Generally the IRS learns about these items through very thorough and in-depth investigations, sometimes casing the suspected fraudulent taxpayer. In addition, the IRS also assesses the taxpayer's liabilities. Liabilities include expenses such as the taxpayer's mortgage, car loans, credit card debts, student loans, and personal loans. The opening net worth is the most critical point at which the IRS must assess the taxpayer's assets and liabilities. Otherwise, the net worth comparison will be inaccurate.\n\nThe IRS then evaluates new debts and liabilities accumulated in the next year, and assesses the taxpayer's new net worth at the next year's end. In addition, the IRS reviews the taxpayer's cash expenditures throughout the tax year. The IRS then compares the increase in net worth and the cash expenditures with the reported taxable income over time in order to determine the legitimacy of the taxpayer's reported income.\n\nThe net worth method was first used in the case of \"Capone v. United States\". The cash method was approved in 1989 in \"United States v. Hogan\".\n\nFirst approved by the Eighth Circuit in 1935 in \"Gleckman v. United States\", the bank deposit cash expenditure method identifies tax evasion through review of the taxpayer's bank deposits. This method of investigation primarily focuses on whether the taxpayer's total bank deposits throughout the year are equal to the taxpayer's reported income. This method is most appropriate when the majority of the taxpayer's income is deposited in the bank and most expenses are paid by check.\n\nThis method is most commonly used for surveillance of tipped employees and is combined with statistical analysis to determine what a tipped employees actual wages are. Information gathered through this method is most successful when the credibility of tipped employees can be destroyed. This method is used less frequently now for tipped employees because the IRS negotiates with hotels or casinos, the largest employers of tipped employees, to identify a tip estimate. If the tipped employee reports the minimal amount agreed upon, he is not questioned by the IRS. However, it is recommended for corroborating other methods of proof. Given the uncertainty of this method, this method likely could not be used in criminal prosecutions where the guilt must be found beyond a reasonable doubt.\n\nIn addition to the methods of proof the IRS has developed, the Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006 created the IRS Whistleblower Office, which allows anonymous whistle blowers to receive 15 to 30 percent of any recovery by the IRS which comes to at least $2 million including all penalties, interests and any other monies collected from the government. The whistle blower program seeks information based on evidence and analysis which can provide a solid basis for further investigation rather than speculation and hearsay.\n\nThe program is designed to provide incentive to ordinary citizens to inform on tax cheats. The program provides far greater incentives for whistle blowers than previous programs because under prior programs the government was not required to compensate whistleblowers. Under this program, a taxpayer may file a lawsuit in court if he or she does not receive a deserved award.\n\nThe IRS publishes the number of civil and criminal penalties in the IRS Data Book (IRS Publication 55B) and makes these available online. Table 17 shows tabulated data on civil penalties and Table 18 shows data on criminal investigations. In 2012, the IRS assessed civil penalties in 37,910,493 cases and 4,994,926 abatements. In 2012, the IRS initiated 5,125 investigations; of 3,701 which were referred to prosecution, 2,634 resulted in conviction. The agency also highlights current investigations on its website by various categories, including abusive returns, tax schemes, corporate fraud, money laundering, and various other categories.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25775721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25775721", "title": "Treaty of Limits (Brazil–Netherlands)", "text": "Treaty of Limits (Brazil–Netherlands)\n\nThe Treaty of Limits was a 1906 treaty between Brazil and the Netherlands which established the international boundary between Brazil and the Dutch colony of Suriname. The treaty defined the border as being\n\nformed from the French border [French Guiana] to the British border [British Guiana], the line of the watershed between the Amazon basin to the south, and the basins of the rivers flowing into north to the Atlantic Ocean.\n\nThe treaty also established the possibility of designating a joint Brazilian–Dutch commission that would physically demarcate the border with markers if that was deemed necessary. The boundary defined by the treaty is still the recognized border between Brazil and now-independent Suriname. There are no border checkpoints along the border, and much of the border region consists of impenetrable rainforest, but the boundary commission has set down 60 border markers along the Brazil–Suriname border.\n\nThe border described in the treaty was the result of a negotiation process between the Netherlands and Brazil and followed the establishment of the borders between Brazil and France (French Guiana, to the west) and Brazil and the United Kingdom (British Guiana, to the east. ) that were based on the same watershed. The latter borders were established after an arbitration process that was headed by King Victor Emmanuel III of Italy and a decision of Switzerland, respectively. \n\nThe treaty was signed in Rio de Janeiro on 5 May 1906. Brazil and the Netherlands both ratified the treaty in 1908.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9625280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9625280", "title": "Undistributed profits tax", "text": "Undistributed profits tax\n\nThe undistributed profits tax was enacted in 1936 by the United States administration of President Franklin D. Roosevelt (FDR), during the Great Depression. The UP tax was a revenue program for FDR's New Deal. The act was controversial even within FDR's United States Treasury Department, as some economists such as Alfred G. Buehler thought that it would harm the ability of business to put capital towards company growth. In particular, Buehler reasoned that the UP tax would hit small business especially hard, as smaller businesses have fewer options in raising capital than large ones, usually by keeping a percentage of their profits for re-investment back into the business. The UP Tax was part of FDR's \"Second New Deal\".\n\nThe bill established the principle that retained corporate earnings could be taxed. The idea was to force businesses to distribute profits in dividend and wages, instead of saving or reinvesting them. In the end, Congress watered down the bill, setting the tax rates at 7 to 27% and largely exempting small enterprises.\n\nConservative critics of the New Deal considered this a burden on business growth. Facing widespread and fierce criticism, the tax was reduced to 2½ percent in 1938 and completely eliminated in 1939.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17342159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17342159", "title": "Unfair prejudice in United States evidence law", "text": "Unfair prejudice in United States evidence law\n\nUnfair prejudice in United States evidence law may be grounds for excluding relevant evidence. \"Unfair prejudice\" as used in Rule 403 is not to be equated with testimony simply adverse to the opposing party. Virtually all evidence is prejudicial or it is not material. The prejudice must be \"unfair\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1872266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1872266", "title": "Uniform Gifts to Minors Act", "text": "Uniform Gifts to Minors Act\n\nThe Uniform Gifts to Minors Act (UGMA) is an act in some states of the United States that allows assets such as securities, where the donor has given up all possession and control, to be held in the custodian's name for the benefit of the minor without an attorney needing to set up a special trust fund. This allows a minor in the United States to have property set aside for the minor's benefit and may achieve some income tax benefit for the child's parents. Once the child reaches the age of maturity (18 or 21 depending on the state), the assets become the property of the child and the child can use them for any purpose. Contributing money to an UGMA account on another person's behalf could be subject to gift tax; however, the Internal Revenue Code of the United States allows persons to give up to the annual gift tax exclusion to another person without any gift tax consequences, and gifts exceeding that amount as long as total gifts are below the lifetime limits.\n\nIn the majority of states that have adopted the Uniform Transfers to Minors Act (UTMA), the assets are treated similarly. The assets are held in the custodian's name until the child reaches age of maturity. States that adopted UTMA also repealed UGMA; UTMA specifically provides that contracts in UTMA states which reference UGMA are governed by UTMA. Thus, UGMA is often still referred to in contracts designed for use in multiple states, even though it may actually mean UTMA in a particular state. Under the UGMA or UTMA, the ownership of the funds works like it does with any other trust and the donor must appoint a custodian (the trustee) to look after the account for the benefit of the beneficiary.\n\nUntil 1986, a UGMA or UTMA account allowed the assets to be taxed at the minor's income tax bracket. Tax law changes in 1986, 2006 and 2007 known as the \"kiddie tax\" have substantially reduced the tax savings of UGMAs and UTMAs. The current rule is that for beneficiaries under 19 (23 if a student), the first $1,000 of income is tax-free, the second $1,000 is taxed at the minor's rate (typically zero or 15%), and the amount over $2,000 is taxed at the parent's rate. Minors can also invest in the stock market.\n\nOne negative effect of UGMA or UTMA assets for minors who plan to attend college is that financial aid is typically reduced by 20-25% of the UGMA or UTMA balance. Some financial advisers therefore advise depleting the balance in these accounts, always for purposes benefiting the minor such as summer camp, books, computer and similar expenses, well before the minor begins the process of applying to college.\n"}
{"id": "5048086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5048086", "title": "Unisex public toilet", "text": "Unisex public toilet\n\nUnisex public toilets (also called gender-inclusive, gender-neutral or all-gender toilets) are public toilets that are not separated by gender. Unisex public toilets can be designed to benefit a range of people with or without special needs, for example people with disabilities, the elderly, and anyone who needs the help of someone of another gender. They are also valuable for parents wishing to accompany one or more of their children needing a toilet facility.\n\nUnisex public toilets can be used by people of any gender or gender identity, i.e. male, female, transgender, intersex. Gender-neutral toilet facilities can benefit transgender populations and people outside of the gender binary. \n\nSex segregation in public toilets, as opposed to unisex toilets, is the separation of public toilets into male and female. This separation is sometimes enforced by both city laws and building codes. \n\nKey differences between male and female public toilets in most western countries include the presence of urinals for men and boys and sanitary bins for the disposal of menstrual hygiene products for women and older girls.\n\nSeveral alternative terms are in use for unisex public toilets: All-gender toilets, gender neutral toilets, gender free toilets or all-user toilets. These are all toilets which can (in theory) be used by anybody, regardless of gender identity or presentation. The term \"all-gender toilets\" highlight that these are toilets that can be used by people of any gender. \n\nThe \"Public Toilet Advocacy Toolkit\" by the NGO Public Hygiene Lets Us Stay Human (PHLUSH) in Portland, Oregon (United States) from 2015 uses the term \"all-gender\". More recently, they have changed to the term \"all user\".\n\nSome of the unisex toilets described here are \"accessible toilets\" which are also referred to as \"disabled toilets\". This term is generally used when talking about the larger toilet cubicle with handrails etc., which usually have a wheelchair-user sign on the outside door. \n\nSome unisex public toilets are designed to be used by people with disabilities. Many public toilets have either individual or gender-neutral facilities. They can accommodate people with disabilities, elderly persons who may require assistance from a carer of another gender, or other cases where public gender-segregated facilities might lead to discomfort. Toilet facilities for disabled people, especially those reliant on a wheelchair, may be either unisex or gender-specific.\n\nUnisex public toilets are also common in cases where space is limited, such as in aircraft lavatories and passenger train toilets. \n\nSeveral types can be distinguished:\n\nProvided that more than one toilet is available in unisex restrooms, toilets are accommodated in enclosed cubicles as in sex-segregated toilets. To ensure visual privacy, these should be provided with floor-to-ceiling walls.\n\nSinks are either installed in open arrangement as in sex-segregated toilets and used collectively by people of all gender. Alternatively, a sink is provided in each cubicle or toilet room, e.g. where the unisex toilet is set up to be used by families and carers.\n\nThe issue of urinals is creating somewhat of a conundrum for many unisex restroom designers. In many public toilets, the widespread use of urinals for males means that there are more opportunities to meet their needs. Since about 90% of public toilets are used for urination, there are often regular queues in front of female toilets with unused toilet cubicles in the male area. While toilets are usually located in cubicles with lockable doors, urinals are usually installed freely in rows in gender-separated toilet rooms. This construction leads to a smaller space consumption and thus to more possibilities for urinating, while promoting better hygiene and economic efficiency for men and boys.\n\nUrinals have primarily been offered in male bathrooms, with female urinals being only a niche product so far. Abolishing all urinals would superficially reduce inequality. However, this would also sacrifice the advantages of urinals and the convenience for male users while doing nothing to improve sanitation or wait time for females. Another possibility would be to offer separate male and female urinals or unisex urinals that can be used by males and females alike, which allows increased flexibility of use. However, this would raise the problem of arrangement. One option would be to continue to offer urinals in rows, with separation by screens. However, it is questionable whether the less private sphere, compared to cubicle toilets, would be met with acceptance. Due to socio-cultural conventions, the open use of urinals by men/boys in front of women/girls would likely create awkwardness for both genders and would currently seem strange and contrary to common morals and etiquette for many users. There are even more practical issues for females, such as women/girls needing toilet paper, having to lower their pants, and sometimes tending to their menstrual hygiene needs while going to the toilet for urination. An alternative would be to accommodate urinals for both sexes in cubicles or to continue to offer them only in male bathrooms. However, this would at least limit the above-mentioned advantages of urinals. \n\nUrinals arranged in cubicles often could not prevail in previous concepts; the advantages over conventional toilets were not obvious due to the unreduced space requirement. With all things considered, many unisex restroom designers are now creating plans in which urinals would be constructed in an isolated section or corner of the restroom so that they would not be directly visible to anyone in other areas of the restroom. This is seen by many as the best possible solution that would balance efficiency with modesty.\n\nEspecially where space is limited, the double design of the sanitary facilities is not possible or only possible to a limited extent. Unisex toilets are often used in many public transport systems, such as rail vehicles or airplanes.\n\nWomen/girls often spend more time in toilet rooms than men/boys, both for physiological and cultural reasons. The requirement to use a cubicle rather than a urinal means that urination takes longer and sanitation is a far greater issue, often requiring more thorough hand washing. Females also make more visits to washrooms. Urinary tract infections and incontinence are more common in females. Pregnancy, menstruation, breastfeeding, and diaper-changing increase usage. The elderly, who are disproportionately female, take longer and more frequent toilet visits. Unisex public toilets can alleviate this problem by providing equal sanitation space for all genders, eliminating the prospect of unused cubicles in the male bathroom.\n\nPublic toilets and sanitation facilities in general need to cater for all people, including those part of the LGBTI community. This is an issue with respect to the human right to water and sanitation and also from the perspective of the Sustainable Development Goal 6, which aim for universal access to sanitation and gender equality.\n\nFor many genderqueer people and people of the third sex, such as intersexuals, butch lesbians or people with a non-binary transgender identity, it is difficult or even impossible to go to a gender-separated toilet, as they do not feel that they belong clearly to any sex. Sometimes these groups of people are even exposed to hostility when visiting the toilet. Parents of small children also face a dilemma if they want to accompany their small (opposite sex) child to the toilet.\nSex segregation of public toilets began gaining traction as a controversial issue for transgender identity in US politics in 2010. It has been argued that \"walking into a toilet segregated by sex requires that each of us in effect self-segregate\" and that some transgender people report being challenged on what public toilet they choose to use and subsequently \"do their best to forego use of public toilets altogether\".\n\nMany questions concerning exactly how social and legal enforcement of the division should take place has been the subject of many a debate. Transgender people often face harassment based on their choice in public toilets regardless of whether they use the toilet room corresponding to their gender identity or their sex assigned at birth, which has led many activists in the transgender community to call for legal protection for people wishing to use restrooms which most accurately reflect their gender identity. Others have questioned the need for gender-based toilet segregation in the first place. In addition to transgender issues, those questioning the need for gendered bathrooms cite dilemmas caused by the need for caretakers of dependents (who include children, the elderly, and the mentally and physically disabled) to enter the toilet room used by their charge, regardless of which toilet rooms they may use themselves.\n\nOthers have proposed laws which require transgender individuals to use public toilets corresponding to their sex assigned at birth. Some advocates of these laws claim that transgender people, or men claiming to be transgender, will be responsible for sexual assault in public toilets matching their gender identity. However, statistics on sexual assault in public toilets show no incidence of assaults where the perpetrator was a transgender person using a restroom corresponding to their gender identity, while 70% of transgender people report facing harassment or assault while trying to use a restroom in the District of Columbia.\n\nIn the 21st century, with increased exposure of the transgender community, there have been some initiatives calling for gender-neutral public toilets, instead of only male and female ones, to accommodate genderqueer individuals. Political activists have drawn on the commonality between public toilets being segregated formerly by race and still by sex. This has become an increasingly contentious issue, as shown in the battles over North Carolina's Public Facilities Privacy & Security Act 2016. Transgender and gender non-conforming persons also may be subject to embarrassment, harassment, or even assault or arrest by others offended by the presence of a person they interpret as being of a different anatomical sex to themselves. Several groups and organizations, whether in person or online, exist in order to combat the discriminatory attitudes and bills that oppose transgender individuals. For instance, the Transgender Law Center's \"Peeing in Peace\" is a pamphlet that serves as a resource guide full of information on harassment, safe bathroom campaigns, legal information, and more.\n\nThe consolidation of previously gender-separated toilets and the construction of new unisex toilets is sometimes accompanied on the one hand by administrative and building law difficulties, and on the other by some public moral concerns. \n\nBuilding laws in some states require that toilets be physically separated for both sexes, making unisex toilets virtually illegal. In the USA, especially in large cities and at universities, unisex toilets have been increasingly put into operation since 2010.\n\nIn both developed and developing countries, many of the organizations active in water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) provision have asserted in the past that separate toilets for boys and girls at school are very important to make girls feel comfortable and safe using the sanitation facilities at schools. This concern could potentially apply to boys as well, especially if open urinals are maintained. As an alternative, some unisex school toilets could be provided at schools in addition to facilities that are separated by gender (which is often the case already in the case of toilets for people with disabilities).\n\nWaterAid is researching options of appropriate unisex public toilets in developing countries. In 2017 they stated that those kinds of gender-neutral toilets, where people can access all toilets irrespective of their gender, is not recommended in contexts where it may increase the risk of violence against women or transgender people, or where it is deemed culturally inappropriate. Many women, especially those who have been victims of sexual abuse in the past, have asserted the right to continue using all-female bathrooms to minimize the risk of any kind of sexual harassment in public restrooms. \n\nThere is limited evidence that in developing countries, some activists favour ‘third gender’ public toilets which would only be used by transgender people. However, this is still being debated and may reinforce stigma and result in people being banned from accessing the toilets of the gender they identify with. In some African countries where transgender people are being prosecuted, this option would likely bring no benefit at all.\n\nThe unisex toilets are met with opposition especially from the conservative side, for instance from the Christian conservative Alliance Defending Freedom. The sharing of toilets is presented as immoral and against prevailing habits. The debate is sometimes controversial and bears the hallmarks of moral panic, especially in the USA. \n\nAspects of cultural identity and the feared change in values play into the controversy: with the abolition of gender segregation in public toilets, a decay of morals and public order is called for. Similar discursive patterns are used as in the argument against the abolition of racial segregation in the USA in the 1950s, a warning is issued against the looming threats: violence and sexual assaults would increase. Also, while many transgender rights advocates see unisex restrooms as a positive step, others assert that they are not actively lobbying to change anything about how restrooms are traditionally designed. In cases where schools have unisex bathrooms as an alternative to those separated for boys and girls, transgender rights advocates have asserted that transgender students should not be forced to use the unisex bathrooms if that is not what they prefer.\n\nThe concept of the unisex toilet became a political emotive word, particularly within the Alt Right and paleoconservatism, whereby this pars pro toto stands for the abolition of gender boundaries, gender mainstreaming and liberalism. For instance, Alex Jones regards the unisex toilet as a major threat to public morality. Christian conservatives compare the introduction of unisex toilets with the abolition of bible reading in state schools. Gabriele Bublies-Leifert, member of the German right-wing party Alternative für Deutschland (AfD) regards the unisex toilet as a danger for German women and relates it to sexual assaults by ″criminal foreigners″.\n\nIn some cases, there were escalations between users and opponents of unisex toilets: in Los Angeles in 2016 there were violent clashes between students and opponents of toilets. Also, the newly installed unisex toilets at the German Bielefeld University have repeatedly been vandalized.\n\nUnisex toilets have appeared in China since before 2013 in Shenyang and Chengdu by 2015. However, it was not until November 19, 2016 that Shanghai China opened its first public unisex toilet near the Zhangjiabin River in a park, in the Pudong district. Many of these toilets have opened in high-traffic areas for the convenience of users as opposed to existing for the benefit of those in need of a gender neutral toilet, for example sexual minorities or those who are disabled. In May 2016 a Beijing- based non-governmental organization launched an 'All Gender Toilets' campaign to bring awareness to this issue in China. This resulted around 30 locations opening unisex public toilets.\n\nIn 2014 the Indian Supreme Court gave transgender people, also known as 'hijras', recognition with a third gender. This legislation included creating separate toilets for transgender people in public spaces where transgender people are often met with violence and hostility. The two-judge Supreme Court bench was led by Justice KS Radhakrishnan, who said, \"The court order gives legal sanctity to the third gender. The judges said the government must make sure that they have access to medical care and other facilities like separate wards in hospitals and separate toilets\". In 2017 The Union Ministry of Drinking Water and Sanitation sent out guidelines to the Swachh Bharat Mission decreeing that members who are part of the transgender community should be allowed to use the public toilet they are most comfortable with.\n\nAs of 2016, still no laws were set in place regarding the usage of public toilets in relation to gender identity; there may however be occasional signs in front of public toilets that indicate that the stall is 'gender free'. The Tokyo city government is planning to install one unisex toilet in at least seven out of eleven of the buildings being used for the Olympic Games in 2020.\n\nLGBT rights in Nepal have existed for a number of years but it wasn't until Sunil Babu Pant who was elected into Parliament, used part of the Parliamentarian Development Fund to build the first two gender neutral toilets in Nepalganj, one of which is in Bageshwori Park. Starting in 2014 The Nepal Country Report, A Participatory Review and Analysis of the Legal and Social Environment for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender (LGBT) Persons and Civil Society recommended that in schools separate toilets or gender neutral toilets should be built for transgender students.\n\nThe term \"kathoeys\" used to describe effeminate male-bodied people, for whom schools have started opening gender-segregated toilets for since 2003. After legislation passed, in 2004 a private vocational college in Chiang Mai Thailand gave 15 'kathoey' students the opportunity to use toilet facilities that were solely for them, referred to as 'pink lotus' public toilets. Alliance organizations in Thailand such as the Thai Transgender Alliance and the Transferral Association of Thailand were created to support kathoey people such as by helping create separate public toilet facilities. Kathoey enfranchisement was made helped by the creation of separate toilets at the Lummahachaichumpol Temple in Rayong.\n\nBuilding laws in some states require that toilets be physically separated for both sexes, making unisex toilets virtually illegal. In the USA, especially in large cities and at universities, unisex toilets have been increasingly put into operation since 2010.\n\nAmerican public toilets are regulated by two federal agencies. The U.S. Department of Labor is in charge of workplace restrooms, which means setting state guidelines through the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). For non-work related restroom guidelines, the Department of Health and Human Services governs regulations.\n\nSex segregation can also be caused by building codes, as buildings from different eras are subject to different codes. In many situations, building owners do not update existing features because it allows them to continue following the older building codes that go along with those older features.These regulations are mostly based on the precedent created by original legislation, though they sometimes also work to eliminate the longer wait time females often face by creating a ratio of more female restrooms than male restrooms.\n\nThe Equal Employment Opportunity Commission provides federal anti-discrimination protection on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, pregnancy status, age, disability, and genetic information. However, federal anti-discrimination laws do not extend to LGBT individuals. In May 2016 the U.S. Department of Education and the Justice Department indicated that single-sex schools and schools receiving federal money must treat transgender students consistent with their gender identity under Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972. This has not extended such a ruling to transgender students across the board. Each state, county, and city government enacts its own legislation governing how it will or will not protect the rights of LGBT individuals; this includes provision of gender neutral public toilets.The United States Department of Labor's Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) requires that employers provide accessible toilets for all employees, and that employers do not impose \"unreasonable restrictions\" on employees who wish to use toilets at work. However, this federal requirement for employers applies mainly to the physically disabled, and to women employed in male-dominated workplaces. OSHA historically has not applied this law to transgender employees.\n\nSan Francisco, Philadelphia, Seattle, Washington D.C., West Hollywood, Austin, and the US states of Vermont and California - have passed measures mandating that single-occupancy bathrooms in public spaces be labeled as gender-neutral. \n\nThe City Council of Portland, Oregon passed an ordinance for \"all user restrooms\" in 2015. This ordinance directed all city bureaus to convert all \"single-user gender-specific restrooms\" into \"all-user restrooms\" within six months. \n\nThe Human Rights Campaign recommends that employers grant access, and use, to public toilets according to an employee's \"full time gender presentation\", and provides a list of recommendations for employers on how to do so.\n\nOn September 29, 2016 Governor Jerry Brown signed legislation (Assembly Bill 1732) after being approved by the Assembly and Senate which meant California became the first state in the US to require all single-occupancy public toilets to be gender-neutral since March 1, 2017. This includes California schools, government buildings, businesses and public toilets. Legislation has also been proposed in California that \"requires...private buildings open to the public, as specified, to maintain at least one safe, sanitary, and convenient baby diaper changing station that is accessible to women and men\".\n\nOn May 11, 2018, the US state of Vermont Gov. Phil Scott signed a bill requiring all single-user public restrooms to be gender-neutral - effective from July 1, 2018.\n\nIn May 2016, North Carolina and the U.S. Justice Department disagreed on the issue, resulting in the Justice department engaging in a civil rights lawsuit over North Carolina's 'bathroom bill' in order to stop its implementation. This bill disallowed transgender people to use public toilets if the gender of the restroom does not match their birth certificate. Moreover, businesses in North Carolina have enforced toilet restrictions on transgender customers at their discretion. Mississippi also limited public toilet usage through the enactment of a law that protects religious beliefs, citing: “male (man) or female (woman) refers to an individual’s immutable biological sex as objectively determined by anatomy and genetics at time of birth,” which does not consider transgender and intersex people.\n\nState legislatures in Arizona, Illinois, Kansas, Kentucky, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, South Carolina, Tennessee, and Texas have proposed anti-transgender bills that would restrict public toilet access.\n\nMany colleges and universities (such as Oberlin College in Ohio) have had gender-neutral or all gender bathrooms as early as 2000. In February 2016, Michigan was the first state in the US to pass a bill that forces transgender children and teenagers in school to use sanitation facilities that correspond with their 'chromosomes and anatomy' at birth. On 22 February 2017, the Trump administration ended federal protection for transgender students that had been published by the Obama administration in 2016. These guidelines encouraged schools to let students use toilets or locker rooms that they identified with.\n\nIn 2015 Scotland aimed to create its first unisex toilet in Strathean Community Campus in Crieff, a secondary school. In 2015 Unisex toilets were set to be introduced into every new school to be built in Scotland in a campaign to eradicate bullying. All future primary and secondary schools will have non-segregated toilets. The Scottish Futures Trust which is in charge of Scotland's government's schools building program has already trialled this in one primary school and two secondary schools. In March 2017 the Glasgow City Council announced that toilets in school will no longer be labeled as 'girls' and 'boys' but instead be labelled as unisex to help students who may be struggling with the issue of gender identity. This will be implemented in three schools first.\n\nAs of 2014, there has been a trend on college campuses in the US to open all-gender public toilets. Some campuses are renaming their existing restrooms and toilets to do this. The motive is in part an effort to make students of any gender to use the restroom and feel safe. Activists also say they hope that anyone - not only gender-nonbinary people - can feel safe, raising the convenience it provides to disabled people to get assistance from someone with a differing gender. According to a University of Massachusetts Amherst LGBTQ organization, The Stonewall Centre, there were more than 150 campuses in the US in 2014 with gender-neutral public toilets.\n\nResearch by the same organization comments on the need for gender neutral restrooms and the issue of safety. It says that certain people feel threatened using facilities that do not adhere to their gender identity, and this can become an issue when students are harassed by their peers. The organization states that this is more of an issue in restrooms that are designated for male use than those that are designated for female use.\n\nAccording to a research article by Olga Gershenson of the University of Massachusetts Amherst, restrooms have always been an issue for one group or another. First, women around the world petitioned for the right to their own facilities; next were racial minorities in the US during the time of segregation. After this fight, people with disabilities raised the issue to get fully equipped facilities. That fight ended with changes to building codes to make washroom more accessible. Now the issue concerns transgender and other gender variant people.\n\nThe University of Oklahoma continually adds gender-neutral restrooms to their campus to accommodate students who may require use of a less excessively gendered bathroom. (Students that fit under this umbrella may identify as non-heterosexual). As of February 2014, the university had 13 unisex bathrooms. Recently, the university has vowed to include a gender neutral bathroom in all new buildings to be constructed.\n\nForcing trans / non-binary students to use normative gendered restrooms can stigmatize them daily by singling them out.\n\nThere are over 150 college campuses across the US that are creating unisex public toilet or \"gender-neutral restrooms\". In March 2016, New York City private college Cooper Union moved to remove gender designations from campus bathrooms. In October 2016, University of California Berkeley converted several restrooms into gender-neutral washrooms.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, all-gender restrooms are sometimes found on university campuses. In early 2013, Brighton and Hove city council introduced unisex toilets, which did not feature the words 'men/gentlemen' or 'women/ladies' (as is traditional), but instead used 'universal symbols'. Other British universities including Bradford Union, Sussex and Manchester, have already or are in the process of building unisex facilities.\n\nClara Greed, professor of inclusive urban planning at the University of the West of England, related the gender segregation and the associated discrimination against women to the racial segregation at the time of the Jim Crow laws in the USA, which took place for similar argumentative reasons. Referring to the principle of racial segregation: \"Separate but equal\", Senfronia Thompson, the Democratic Party's colored representative in the Texas House of Representatives, criticized the current situation:\nSteps to create bathroom equity are being pushed for. The issue of bathroom equity is thus pushed for by feminists in order to allocate a space that is more fair and equal for women.\n\nSince the 1980s, \"potty parity\" activists campaigned for laws requiring more female-designated public toilets than male-designated public toilets in public buildings, based on the idea that women require more time to use the toilet and thus women's toilets tend to have longer lines. California passed the first law of this kind in 1987, and as of 2009 twenty states in the US have passed similar legislation.\n\nHowever, women are not only disadvantaged by the fact that no urinals are provided for them and thus the possibilities for urination are limited. A two-tier system is also indirectly generated via the \"toilet apartheid\" by excluding women from important networking processes in men's toilets. Mary Anne Case, feminist and professor of law at the University of Chicago, found out that important agreements and decisions are made at the urinal where women are previously excluded. Accordingly, she argues that: \n\nIn the Netherlands a protest movement has formed under the name of \"Zeikwijven\" (\"the wild-peeing women\"), which advocates urination equality and takes action against the discrimination of women through limited possibilities of micturition. The initiative was triggered after 23-year-old Geerte Piening was sentenced to a fine for urinating in public on the street. Her complaint was rejected on the judicial grounds that Piening should have used a street urinal common in the Netherlands. The objection that this was designed only for men was not accepted: \"it may not be comfortable, but it is possible\". According to one campaign initiator, the problem is that:\nAs part of this campaign, women in the Netherlands began to urinate demonstratively in public urinals for men. Meanwhile, the Dutch city authorities are planning to increasingly offer an unisex version of the Urilift street urinals, which are now available in Dutch city centres and can be used comfortably by men and women.\n\nIn April 2014, the Vancouver Park Board decided to install all-gender restrooms in public buildings, with different signs to identify them. Amongst the options discussed was the rainbow triangle (based on the pink triangle used during the Holocaust), an 'all-inclusive' gender symbol, an icon representing a toilet or the phrases 'washroom' or 'gender-neutral washroom' placed on the entrances to the toilets. According to Global News, a Canadian online newspaper, many different regions across Canada offer unisex toilets and other gender-neutral facilities, but Vancouver was the first municipality to change building codes to require unisex toilets be built in public buildings. This movement, according to commissioner Trevor Loke, was aimed to make everyone feel welcomed and included: \"We think that the recommendation of universal washrooms is a good idea [...] [w]e will be using more inclusive language based on the BC Human Rights Code.\" Some initiatives to make washrooms more diverse and inclusive have focused on language simply by using the phrases 'washroom' or 'gender-neutral washroom' in order to be inclusive of all genders and gender identities, or using specifically geared language such as 'women and trans women' as opposed to just 'women' (and vice versa for men and trans men).\n\nIn March 2017 Yelp announced that they will add a gender neutral toilet finder feature on their app. Yelp was one of over 50 companies that signed a 'friend-of-the-court' amicus brief in favor of a transgender high school student Gavin Grimm who claims that his school board denied him access to the boys' bathroom in school and thereby violating Title IX. HRC President Chad Griffin stated on the brief that, \"These companies are sending a powerful message to transgender children and their families that America’s leading businesses have their backs,”\n\nMaking public facilities accessible to diverse populations has long been an issue. Historically in the United States, Europe, and elsewhere public toilets have been segregated by race, class, religion, and gender, and have frequently been completely inaccessible to certain people with disabilities. Gender segregated public toilets in the United States and Europe are a vestige of the Victorian era where women's modesty and safety were considered at risk and under constant need of surveillance and discipline. \n\nIn 1739 the very first gender-segregated toilets were created specifically for a ball in a Parisian restaurant. The organizers of the ball made a chamber box (a chamber pot in a box along with a seat) for men in one room and for women in another. While public water closets were considered necessary for sanitation reasons, they were viewed as offending public sensibilities. Because public facilities were associated with access to public spaces, extending these rights to women was viewed as \"immoral\" and an \"abomination\". As a result of Victorian era codes, women were delegated to the private sphere, away from the public, fulfilling their roles as dutiful wives and mothers where any association with sexuality or private body parts was taboo. For women, the female lavatory in a public space was associated with danger, unrespectability, and even immoral sexual conduct.\n\nThe decision to create separate toilets in the U.S. for males and females was a reflection of their shift and growth in society. As women entered the workforce and factories, they needed to have a place to relieve themselves. In the U.S., the very first regulation that enforced separate toilets for males and females passed in 1887 and was titled \"An Act To Secure Proper Sanitary Provisions in Factories and Workshops.\" At this time, Massachusetts required establishments to have separate privies in businesses.\n\nWhile some public facilities were available to women in London by 1890, there were much fewer than those available to men. During the 19th century, concerns over public health and sanitation led to the sanitarian movement in which citizens rallied for better sanitary conditions and advocated for better public waterworks systems and plumbing. Although sanitary reforms continued through the 1900s, it became a source of political debate.\n\nSex-segregated toilets date back to the 18th century in Paris. \n\nA separation of the sexes in public toilets and public lavatories was rather unusual until the 19th century. Usually there was a room for both sexes. It was not until the Victorian era, starting in Great Britain, that gender segregation began in the toilet area. According to Barbara Penner, professor of architectural history at University College London, this was an expression of the gender ideology of that era: \nIn 1887 the Massachusetts legislature introduced and enacted a law that mandated the separation of bathrooms by sex. While there existed separate public toilets for males and females prior to 1887, this was the first law of its kind. The provision, titled “An Act To Secure Proper Sanitary Provisions In Factories and Workshops,” called for suitable and separate restrooms for females in the workplace.\n\nIn 1887 Massachusetts became the first of the United States to pass legislation requiring any workplace with female employees to have a female-specific restroom. Subsequently, other states created similar laws, often by amending existing protective labor legislation. 43 states had passed similar legislation by 1920.\n\nLegal scholar Terry S. Kogan lists four primary rationales for sex-segregated toilets as detailed by state statutes and related literature during this time period: sanitation, women's privacy, the protection of women's bodies, which were seen as weaker, and to protect social morality especially as it pertained to the nineteenth century ideology of separate spheres. \n\nThe separation of bathrooms by sex in the United States was influenced by a number of factors. A combination of Victorian Era morals and concerns over public health fueled the desire to create separate toilet facilities. These Victorian Era morals of the 19th century held women accountable for being virtuous and modest, as well as cast them into the role of homemakers, mothers, and wives. As a consequence, men and women were placed into separate spheres: the former occupied the public (such as the workplace), whereas the latter were assigned to the private sphere (the home). The Industrial Revolution, paired with the emergence of new technology and a booming economy, began to draw women out of the home and into the workplace– as a result, women began to enter the public sphere, a domain that was previously occupied by men. This was a cause for concern for Victorian regulators– they deemed the public dangerous and held the view that women, their morality, and their privacy were at stake by the “predatory” male; they pushed for separate toilet facilities for women in order to protect their reputation and well-being.\n\nDuring the Jim Crow period, public washrooms were racially segregated in part to protect the morality and sensibilities of white women. During this time, architectural isolation was imposed– through isolation and partitioning, blacks and whites were kept in separate spheres and allowed whites to hold the upper hand in society. Strategies to keep African Americans out of sight included the “basement solution;” by locating public toilets for coloured people in the basement next to janitor supply rooms, Jim Crow laws were able to maintain separation of the races.\n\nThe presence or absence of public toilets is a reflection of its society’s class inequalities and social hierarchies. For instance, the lack of public toilets for women reflects the exclusion of females from the public sphere. Until 1992, U.S. female senators had to use toilets located on different floor levels than the ones they were working on, a reflection of their intrusion in an all-male profession. Until a bathroom for them was built, their presence and admittance into this professional field was not welcome.\n\nIn contemporary times, there are gender neutral toilets in some public spaces in the United States. Despite this, transgender and non-conforming gendered people are still sometimes subject to visual and/or verbal scrutiny; this is reinforced by the architectural design and heteronormative gendered codes of conduct that are still present within the US.\n\nLegal scholar Terry S. Kogan lists four primary rationales for sex-segregated toilets as detailed by state statutes and related literature during this time period: sanitation, women's privacy, the protection of women's bodies, which were seen as weaker, and to protect social morality especially as it pertained to the nineteenth century ideology of separate spheres. Kogan's argument that modern-day public toilet segregation emerged out of this Victorian model of gender has been cited in historical overviews of this topic by Time, Public Radio International and The Washington Post.\n\nThe separation of bathrooms by sex in the United States was influenced by a number of factors. A combination of Victorian Era morals and concerns over public health fueled the desire to create separate toilet facilities. These Victorian Era morals of the 19th century held women accountable for being virtuous and modest, as well as cast them into the role of homemakers, mothers, and wives. As a consequence, men and women were placed into separate spheres: the former occupied the public (such as the workplace), whereas the latter were assigned to the private sphere (the home). The Industrial Revolution, paired with the emergence of new technology and a booming economy, began to draw women out of the home and into the workplace– as a result, women began to enter the public sphere, a domain that was previously occupied by men. This was a cause for concern for Victorian regulators– they deemed the public dangerous and held the view that women, their morality, and their privacy were at stake by the “predatory” male; they pushed for separate sanitation facilities for women in order to protect their reputation and well-being.\n\nThe presence or absence of public toilets is a reflection of its society’s class inequalities and social hierarchies. For instance, the lack of public toilets for women reflects the exclusion of females from the public sphere. Until 1992, U.S. female senators had to use restrooms located on different floor levels than the ones they were working on, a reflection of their intrusion in an all-male profession. Public toilet facilities in 19th and 20th century Europe and United States were strongly segregated by sex, race, class, and religion, but only sex segregation remained normative at the end of the 20th century. Though unisex public toilets have become more common worldwide in the early 21st century, such facilities have proven highly controversial.\n\nAll-gender restrooms are designed to ensure that restrooms are fully accessible to all members of society. While the issue of gender inclusive restrooms has been raised as an equity and human rights issue for people who identify outside of the gender binary, eliminating gender segregation in bathrooms also benefits disabled populations who may have attendants of a different gender, parents with children, and anyone who may need additional assistance using public toilet facilities. All-Gender restrooms can eliminate discrimination and harassment for people who may be perceived to be in the \"wrong\" bathroom.\n\nWhile opponents of unisex bathrooms have often referenced the fear of women and children being assaulted in bathrooms by trans women, there is no credible research to support this claim. Instead, there is substantial evidence that demonstrates that transgender people and gender non-conforming people experience substantial and significant harassment in public toilets. One survey of transgender populations conducted in Washington, DC, by the group \"DC Trans Coalition\", \"found that 70 percent of survey respondents report experiencing verbal harassment, assault, and being denied access to public toilets.\" It also found that \"54 percent of all respondents reported having some sort of physical problem from trying to avoid using public toilets, such as dehydration, kidney infections, and urinary tract infections\" making access to safe restrooms a public health issue.\n\nIn the 20th century, the practice of pay toilets emerged, where public toilet stalls could only through accessed by paying a fee. Activist groups including The Committee to End Pay Toilets in America claimed that such practices disadvantaged women because men did not have to pay for urinals. As an act of protest against this phenomenon, in 1969 California Assemblywoman March Fong Eu destroyed a toilet on the steps of the California State Capitol.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41724202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41724202", "title": "Vellama d/o Marie Muthu v. Attorney-General", "text": "Vellama d/o Marie Muthu v. Attorney-General\n\nVellama d/o Marie Muthu v. Attorney-General was a 2013 decision of the Court of Appeal of Singapore which held that Article 49(1) of the Constitution requires the Prime Minister to call a by-election when a casual vacancy arises in a Single Member Constituency (\"SMC\"), though the election need only be called within a reasonable time.\n\nThe holding was an \"obiter dictum\", that is, not required for the decision in the case and therefore not a binding precedent, though it may be persuasive in future cases. This was because the Court dismissed the appeal on the ground that the appellant, Madam Vellama, lacked standing. She had originally applied for judicial review in 2012 to ask the High Court to order the Prime Minister to call a by-election in Hougang Single Member Constituency following the expulsion of her Member of Parliament (MP) by his political party, the Workers' Party of Singapore. However, by the time the matter came on appeal, the 2012 by-election had been called and held. Therefore, she was arguably no longer directly affected by the lack of an MP in her constituency. Her only remaining interest was in having the Prime Minister correctly interpret Article 49(1) of the Constitution. This was a public right that she shared equally with all other citizens. Since she was unable to prove \"special damage\" – she was neither affected to a greater extent nor in a different manner from other citizens – she did not have standing to proceed with the appeal.\n\nAlthough the Court of Appeal rejected Vellama's appeal on the preliminary ground of a lack of standing, it went on to consider the substantive issues raised. Disagreeing with the High Court's judgment, the Court of Appeal interpreted Article 49(1) of the Constitution as providing that the Prime Minister does not have unfettered discretion in deciding whether or not to call a by-election when a casual vacancy in an SMC arises. Noting the absence in Article 49(1) of a specific time frame within which a parliamentary vacancy must be filled, the Court held that the Prime Minister must do so with \"all convenient speed\" in line with the common law concept of reasonable time. However, given the polycentric nature of the decision, the Court felt it was undesirable to lay down specific considerations or factors which would determine whether the Prime Minister had or had not called a by-election in reasonable time.\n\nDuring a parliamentary debate on 27 August 2008, the Prime Minister of Singapore, Lee Hsien Loong, asserted that since Singapore's system of elections focuses on political parties rather than on individual candidates, in the event of a parliamentary seat falling vacant in the middle of a term, the Prime Minister retains \"full discretion as to when and whether to call a by-election as the vacancy does not affect the mandate of the government\".\n\nYaw Shin Leong, a member of the Workers' Party of Singapore, was elected as a Member of Parliament (MP) for Hougang Single Member Constituency (SMC) at the 2011 general election. He was expelled from the party on 14 February 2012 for refusing to explain to the party leadership certain allegations of marital infidelity that had come to light. As a result, pursuant to Article 46(2)(b) of the Constitution of the Republic of Singapore, he lost his parliamentary seat which became vacant, leaving the residents of Hougang SMC unrepresented. This spurred the applicant, Madam Vellama d/o (daughter of) Marie Muthu, a voter resident in Hougang SMC, to commence judicial review proceedings in the High Court on 2 March 2012 to compel the Government to call a by-election. She sought a declaration as to the proper construction of Article 49(1) of the Constitution and a mandatory order requiring the Prime Minister to advise the President to issue a writ of election for Hougang SMC within three months from the date of the vacancy, or such other reasonable period as the Court deemed fit.\n\nA week after Vellama's application, Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong announced in Parliament that he intended to call a by-election in Hougang SMC but had yet to decide on its timing. On 2 April 2012, the High Court granted Vellama leave to apply for judicial review. On 9 May 2012, the President, acting on the advice of the Prime Minister, issued a writ of election for a by-election in Hougang SMC. The by-election was held on 26 May 2012, and Png Eng Huat of the Workers' Party was returned to the seat for the constituency.\n\nVellama subsequently abandoned her application for the mandatory order but proceeded with her application for the declaration in the High Court. On 1 August 2012, the High Court dismissed her application. Dissatisfied, she appealed to the Court of Appeal which dismissed her appeal on 5 July 2013. However, in an \"obiter dictum\", the Court of Appeal agreed with her interpretation of Article 49(1) of the Constitution rather than the Prime Minister's interpretation.\n\nBefore a person can apply to the High Court for a prerogative order such as a mandatory order, he or she must be granted leave to do so by the Court. The requirement for leave is a preliminary step that helps to sieve out \"groundless or hopeless cases at an early stage\" and \"prevent a wasteful use of judicial time and to protect public bodies from harassment\". Leave will be granted if the Court is satisfied of the following:\n\n\nHowever, as prerogative orders are discretionary remedies, the Court retains discretion to refuse leave if the circumstances warrant it.\n\nJustice Philip Pillai found that on the facts the first two limbs of the test were obviously satisfied as it was undisputed that \"the matter relates to the performance of powers and duties which involve a public element\" and that \"the applicant has sufficient interest in the matter\". As for the third requirement, the judge held that it posed a very low threshold for leave. Consequently, based on the material before the court, it had been satisfied. He therefore granted leave for the merits of the case to be heard.\n\nIn the subsequent High Court hearing where the substantive issues were heard, Justice Pillai held that Article 49(1) of the Constitution does not mandate that the Prime Minister call a by-election to fill a casual vacancy arising in an SMC. The Article states:\n\nThe judge was persuaded that the expression \"shall be filled by election\" in the Article referred to a process and not an event. He approached the interpretation of the Article on three modes of analysis – textual, contextual and historical. The High Court's textual analysis considered Article 66 of the Constitution which provides for general elections to be held three months after the dissolution of Parliament. Article 66 states that \"[t]here shall be a general election\", whereas Article 49(1) merely states that a vacancy \"shall be filled by election\". In Justice Pillai's view, the absence of the word \"an\" before the word \"election\" in Article 49(1) suggested that the Article was merely stating the process by which a parliamentary vacancy should be filled and not an event that must be held, unlike Article 66.\n\nThe judge's contextual approach afforded more weight to his reasoning that Article 49(1) provides for the process for the filling of vacant seats for elected MPs. In his opinion, the placement of Article 49 in Part VI of the Constitution is significant, as that Part \"prescribes different rules for different types of Members, and [similarly] different processes for filling each type of Member vacancies\".\n\nJustice Pillai's historical consideration of Article 49 centred on section 51 of the Singapore Colony Order in Council 1955, which he noted was the original source of Article 49(1). Section 51(1) of the 1955 Order in Council specified that a vacated seat of a Nominated Member of the Legislative Assembly \"shall be filled by appointment by the Governor\". Section 51(2) stipulated that the vacated seat of an Elected Member of the Assembly \"shall be filled by election\". In the judge's opinion, there was no ambiguity in the meaning of the expression \"shall be filled by election\" in section 51(2) because section 51 was clearly referring to the process of filling a seat and not an event. The judge opined that subsequent constitutional provisions originating from section 51(2) of the 1955 Order in Council that contained the same expression must have the same meaning unless the text was intentionally changed. Accordingly, the High Court dismissed Madam Vellama's application.\n\nVellama appealed the High Court's decision to the Court of Appeal. Before the High Court, Vellama's standing to bring the suit was not disputed. However, during the Court of Appeal hearing, the Attorney-General contended that she no longer possessed standing as the by-election in Hougang SMC had been held. Accordingly, the Court had to consider whether standing should be regarded as having crystallized at the point the proceedings were initiated, or treated as an ongoing issue to be determined at every stage of the proceedings.\n\nThe judgment of the Court of Appeal was delivered by Judge of Appeal Chao Hick Tin. The Court cited the decision of the House of Lords in \"Inland Revenue Commissioners v. National Federation of Self-Employed and Small Businesses Limited\" (1981), in which the judges unanimously decided that the lower court's decision on standing was open to review on appeal. This conclusion was justified as the court at the leave stage might not have the full evidence to make a conclusive determination of the applicant's standing.\n\nThe proposition in the \"National Federation\" case has been endorsed in subsequent United Kingdom cases. In the light of such \"overwhelming authority\", the Court held that the issue of Vellama's standing was not limited to a preliminary determination at the initiation of proceedings, but was subject to review until the Court had arrived at a final determination.\n\nThe Court of Appeal proceeded to consider whether Vellama still retained standing given that the Hougang by-election had already been held — a pertinent change in circumstances that affected the very basis of her application.\n\nThe Court discussed the position under English law extensively. Legislative amendments made in 1977 established a single test for standing applicable to all remedies which only required an applicant to have a \"sufficient interest in the matter to which the application relates\". Currently, the Courts of England and Wales have wide scope to grant leave for judicial review to be brought where there is a public interest element in the proceedings, even though the applicant may not be personally affected. Although Singapore has not adopted the 1977 UK legislative changes, the Singapore Court of Appeal noted that English cases based on this law were \"nevertheless instructive\" in determining an applicant's standing after changed circumstances.\n\nThe Court then considered a line of English cases where the application was dismissed for a lack of standing. In \"R. v. Legal Aid Board, ex parte Hardiman\", an application was dismissed after leave was granted due to a change of factual circumstances. The Court held that the principal relief sought would have been \"entirely a purposeless exercise\" for the applicant. Furthermore, in \"R. v. Head Teacher of Fairfield Primary School, ex parte W\", the action was denied as there would be \"no practical benefit\" to the applicant.\n\nOn the contrary, there are some English cases where the application was allowed to proceed despite a change in circumstances. In \"Gibson v. Union of Shop, Distributive and Allied Workers\" (1968), the High Court of England and Wales allowed the action to proceed as there remained \"a good ground of complaint, not of an academic character but involving substantial legal issues\". Furthermore, the court in \"R. (Giles) v. Parole Board\" (2003) noted that even though the proceedings was entirely without any practical significance for the applicant, he had raised a matter of public importance which affected the liberty of other persons. Even though the application was \"strictly moot\", the House of Lords held that the application was \"rightly held to raise an important point of principle\".\n\nIn summary, when an application no longer has any practical significance to the applicant after an important change in circumstances, English courts are generally reluctant to find that the applicant continues to have standing. However, an exception to this is when there are compelling issues of public interest so much so that \"a large number of similar cases exist or are anticipated and will need to be solved in the near future\".\n\nThe leading local authority on the requirements for standing is \"Karaha Bodas Co. L.L.C. v. Pertamina Energy Trading Ltd.\" (2005). Although this was a private law case, in \"Tan Eng Hong v. Attorney-General\" (2012) the Court of Appeal applied the \"Karaha Bodas\" test to a constitutional judicial review case. Three basic propositions were distilled:\n\n\nIn \"Tan Eng Hong\", the Court had generally affirmed the English position. In cases where a declaration will be \"of value to the parties or to the public\", a court may still continue to hear the case even though \"the facts on which the action is based are theoretical\". In so holding, the Court seemed to suggest that the first two limbs of the \"Karaha Bodas\" test would be concurrently satisfied since \"it can be logically said that where there is a real legal interest in a case being heard, there is a real controversy to be determined\".\n\n\"Tan Eng Hong\" appeared to stand for the proposition that only the first and second limbs of the \"Karaha Bodas\" test are required, notwithstanding the lack of a violation of a personal right. However, in \"Vellama\" the Court of Appeal qualified the proposition and cautioned that \"Tan Eng Hong\" must be viewed in its proper context. The applicant in \"Tan Eng Hong\" was originally charged under section 377A of the Penal Code, but the charge was dropped and substituted with one for a lesser offence, which he pleaded guilty to. Although this arguably rendered his challenge to the constitutionality of section 377A theoretical, the application was still of \"great practical significance\" to him. Given the applicant's sexual orientation, so long as the constitutionality of section 377A was not decisively settled, a similar act committed by him could possibly attract prosecution. Therefore, the applicant's personal rights were affected. Thus, there was no contradiction between the adoption of the English position and the third requirement of the \"Karaha Bodas\" test in \"Tan Eng Hong\".\n\nIn \"Vellama\", the Court of Appeal then considered the nature of the right allegedly violated in the third requirement of the \"Karaha Bodas\" test. Although private citizens can bring actions to defend both private and public rights, the test for standing changes depending on the nature of the right contended.\n\n\"Tan Eng Hong\" had approved the decision of the Supreme Court of Malaysia in \"Government of Malaysia v. Lim Kit Siang\" (1988) which distinguished between a private and public right. A public right is one held and vindicated by public authorities, while a private right is one which is held and vindicated by a private individual.\n\nThe Singapore Court of Appeal endorsed the reasoning in \"Boyce v. Paddington Borough Council\" (1902) which explained the applicable test for standing regarding public rights. Since public rights are shared by everyone in common because they arise from public duties owed by public authorities to the general class of persons as a whole, an applicant must prove \"special damage\" peculiar to himself or herself to distinguish his or her claim from those of other potential litigants in the same class. The Court justified the need for special damage in cases involving public rights to prevent frivolous or vexatious actions. Otherwise, courts will be swamped by an array of actions raised by \"mere busybodies and social gadflies, to the detriment of good public administration\" where the burden of bearing costs may not be a sufficient deterrence.\n\nAs \"Tan Eng Hong\" involved a case of private rights, there was little elaboration on the principles on standing regarding public rights. Thus, in \"Vellama\" the Court of Appeal took the opportunity to explain the applicable principles regarding the need to prove \"special damage\" for applicants asserting a violation of public rights.\n\nThe Court noted that there is \"no categorical answer\" as to what constitutes special damage. The Court considered the view of Peter Cane, an English academic, who had argued that special damage was either damage to the common interests to all members of the public but suffered to a greater degree by the applicant, or damage qualitatively different from that suffered by the public. The Court also agreed with the High Court of Australia's decision in \"Australia Conservation Foundation Inc. v. Commonwealth\" (1980) which equated the special damage criterion to a requirement for \"special interest\" in the subject matter of the action. However, special interest cannot be a \"mere intellectual or emotional concern\". If the applicant's action succeeds, he or she must gain some advantage \"other than the satisfaction of righting a wrong, upholding a principle or winning a contest\". If the application fails, he or she must suffer some disadvantage \"other than a sense of grievance or a debt for costs\".\n\nThus, upon a review of the pre-1977 English and present-day Australian case law, the Court of Appeal concluded that special damage is not limited to actual pecuniary loss, and it is not required that the applicant alone has suffered damage. An applicant asserting a violation of a public right must show that his \"personal interests are directly and practically affected over and above the general class of persons who hold that right\". The Court declined to offer more specific guidelines as the special damage requirement is necessarily fact sensitive, dependent on individual cases.\n\nThe Court of Appeal held that the first and second limbs of the \"Karaha Bodas\" test were satisfied. Although the Hougang by-election had been held, rendering the basis for Vellama's application factually moot, there were a real interest and real controversy at hand. The public undoubtedly had an interest in the outcome of the case as \"casual vacancies can arise from time to time whereupon the issue will become real\". Regarding the third requirement of the \"Karaha Bodas\" test, the Court did not expressly decide whether a private right was involved as the Attorney-General did not raise this issue. Even though Vellama first brought the action as a voter who had been directly affected by being resident in an unrepresented constituency, the Court noted that there was \"considerable doubt\" whether a private right had been violated as the Prime Minister had expressed an intention to call a by-election.\n\nAfter the by-election was held, Vellama's basis for bringing the action was rendered factually moot. Thus, she could only claim a public right, rendering her \"no different from any other citizen interested in the proper construction of Art 49\". On the facts, Vellama was unable to show any special damage or special interest over and above that enjoyed by other members of the public in having the case heard; her interest was no more than a \"general desire to have Art 49 interpreted by the court\". Thus, the Court dismissed the appeal on the basis of Vellama's lack of standing.\n\nEven though Vellama's appeal was dismissed on the ground of lack of standing, the Court of Appeal went on to clarify the substantive issue regarding the interpretation of Article 49(1) of the Constitution.\n\nThe current Article 49 in the Constitution replaced Article 33 of the 1963 Constitution of the State of Singapore, which applied when Singapore was part of the Federation of Malaysia. The latter was first promulgated in the Third Schedule to the Sabah, Sarawak and Singapore (State Constitutions) Order in Council 1963 pursuant to Singapore's intent to join Malaysia as a constituent state.\n\nThe original version of Article 33 included a time-limit clause, which mandated that an election had to be held \"within three months\" of a seat of an MP becoming vacant for any reason except for the dissolution of Parliament. In 1963, the Singapore Legislative Assembly requested for the time-limit clause to be removed. However, the government of the United Kingdom turned the request down and Article 33 was not amended. The time-limit clause was only deleted from Article 33 upon Singapore's separation from Malaysia by the Constitution (Amendment) Act 1965, and Article 33 was subsequently renumbered as Article 49 in the 1980 Reprint of the Constitution.\n\nIn the Court of Appeal, both parties made submissions based on parliamentary debates which took place in 1963 regarding the Legislative Assembly's request to remove the time-limit clause in Article 33 to justify their positions. The Attorney-General argued that there was no constitutional duty for casual vacancies to be filled on the following grounds:\n\n\nOn the other hand, Vellama argued it was not possible to extrapolate a principle of unfettered discretion from the fact that no by-election was called in Sembawang. She submitted that the by-election had not been held solely because of logistical reasons. This was seen from how the Singapore Legislative Assembly Elections (Temporary Provisions) Bill provided for a time extension for the revision of the electoral registers for 1962.\n\nThe Court of Appeal analysed the High Court's textual and historical interpretation of Article 49(1), and also considered the role of an MP. The Court found that Article 49(1) does place a duty upon the Prime Minister to call a by-election to fill casual vacancies. However, this only applies to SMCs since a special provision for the calling of by-elections for GRCs exists in section 24(2A) of the Parliamentary Elections Act. The Court's analysis involved answering the following questions:\n\n\nThe Court of Appeal rejected the High Court's textual interpretation of Article 49(1) because it failed to see how the presence of absence of the word \"an\" could resolve the questions. The Court believed that even if the word \"election\" was describing a process, this interpretation on its own would not answer the question of whether the Prime Minister had unfettered discretion. As such, the omission or inclusion of the word \"an\" did not add value to the understanding of Article 49(1), given that the phrase \"shall be filled by election\" was not any clearer than \"shall be filled by an election\" in determining the issue. Further, the phrase \"shall be filled by election\" is capable of being read in a \"double-barrelled sense\", meaning that it could in fact refer to both an event and process at the same time.\n\nThe Court of Appeal noted that the word \"shall\" is a mandatory verb, and that the key to the questions lay with that word rather than the word \"election\" in Article 49(1). The Court held that the High Court's textual emphasis on the word \"election\" had actually substantially modified the meaning of Article 49. This would lead to the less definitive construction that a vacancy \"may\" be filled and, if so, it \"shall\" be filled by election.\n\nThe Court of Appeal held that while both parties had relied heavily on the subtexts of statements made in the 1963 parliamentary debates, \"one should not read too much into [them]\". This was because the phrase \"shall be filled by election\" itself is inherently filled with ambiguity. The Court noted that no member of the ruling party, including the then Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew, had ever denied there was a constitutional obligation to call a by-election to fill a casual vacancy. Instead, the 1963 debates had only focused on the time-frame within which such by-elections should be called.\n\nIt was the Court's opinion that it was likely that the sequence of events following the Sembawang vacancy was the motivating factor for the Legislative Assembly's proposal to remove the time-limit clause from Article 33 in 1965, on grounds that it \"should no longer apply\". However, the Court found it difficult to rely on the Sembawang vacancy as a historical precedent to conclude that there was no constitutional duty to fill casual vacancies. This was because no express statements to that effect were made at that point in time. Also, the delay in holding a by-election was actually a result of the electoral registers being updated. The failure to call the Sembawang by-election could thus at most be seen as an example of the discretion vested in the Prime Minister to call for either a by-election or a general election. Finally, the Court noted that legislative interventions throughout the years showed that there was no consensus as to the meaning of \"shall be filled by election\".\n\nThe Court of Appeal stated that Singapore follows the Westminster system of government under which a voter at a general election performs a dual function: he votes a candidate into Parliament as an MP for a constituency \"and\" as a member of the political party that the voter seeks to return to power as the government. Despite some modifications to the Westminster model in Singapore, the Court held that the basic character of an elected MP in Singapore as the citizen's representative remained unchanged.\n\nThe Judges of Appeal felt that since the authority of the Government emanates from the people, every voter is entitled to have a member representing them and speaking on their behalf in Parliament. As such, the Court felt that an MP is \"not just the mouthpiece but the voice of the people of the constituency\". This is especially the case in a Single Member Constituency where voters only have a single representative in Parliament. The court thus felt that Article 49 does impose a duty upon the Prime Minister to call a by-election to fill casual vacancies in SMCs, unless he intends to call a general election in the near future.\n\nAfter holding that the Prime Minister does not have unfettered discretion to indefinitely postpone the holding of an election to fill a casual vacancy, the Court of Appeal went on to consider the time frame within which the Prime Minister must act. The Court referred to section 52 of the Interpretation Act (\"IA\") which provides: \"Where no time is prescribed or allowed within which anything shall be done that thing shall be done with all convenient speed and as often as the prescribed occasion arises.\" Section 52 is relevant to the interpretation of Article 49(1) by virtue of section 2 of the IA which provides that the IA is applicable to \"written law\", including the Constitution.\n\nThe Court drew a parallel between the common law concept of a reasonable time with that of \"all convenient speed\" in section 52 of the IA, and concluded that the Prime Minister is required to take into account all circumstances relevant to the act to be carried out, and this is not limited to logistical factors but also other policy matters including the physical well-being of the country. Two examples of such relevant considerations were the 2003 Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome outbreak in Singapore and the 2013 Southeast Asian haze which was affecting Singapore at the time the vacancy arose. However, the Court did not wish to lay down specific considerations or factors that the Prime Minister is entitled to take into account. This was because it felt that the timing for the holding of an by-election is a dynamic issue and no predetermination of such considerations would be warranted.\n\nThe Court was also referred to the House of Lords case of \"R. v. Secretary of State for the Home Department, ex parte Fire Brigades Union\" (1995). Their Lordships held that the Home Secretary only had a duty to keep the implementation of a statutory scheme under active consideration until and unless Parliament decided to repeal the statute. The Singapore Court of Appeal distinguished \"ex parte Fire Brigades Union\" from the issue at hand on two grounds. First, the word \"shall\" in Article 49(1) indicated that the Prime Minister is under a duty to call an election to fill the vacancy, as opposed to the word \"may\" which appeared in the statute in \"ex parte Fire Brigades Union\". Secondly, the Prime Minister's discretion under Article 49(1) is not solely and largely dictated by policy considerations, unlike the Home Secretary's discretion in \"ex parte Fire Brigades Union\". Rather, in deciding when to call a by-election, the Prime Minister must bear in mind the equally important consideration of the interests of the people of the constituency in which a vacancy has arisen.\n\nTherefore, while the Prime Minister has a measure of latitude in deciding when to hold a by-election, the Court reiterated that this does not mean that the Prime Minister is entitled to defer the calling of an election to fill a vacancy indefinitely, or to simply declare that he will not be advising the President to issue a writ of election. The Court opined that even if at a particular point in time the Prime Minister felt that it would not be appropriate to call for an election to fill a vacancy, he would still be compelled to review the circumstances from time to time and call one if and when the circumstances changed.\n\nThe Court of Appeal held that the Prime Minister's discretion under Article 49(1) of the Constitution as to the timing of an election to fill a casual vacancy is subject to judicial review. It is a basic requirement of the rule of law, that all discretionary power is subject to legal limits. However, the Court indicated that such judicial intervention would only be warranted in exceptional cases due to the fact-sensitive nature of the Prime Minister's discretion. Given the MP's role as the voice of the constituents, leaving a parliamentary seat vacant for too long could disenfranchise the residents of that constituency. Thus, there was a need to balance the Prime Minister's discretion as to the timing of the election and the rights of voters.\n\nThe Court of Appeal held that Vellama's filing of the action barely two weeks after her MP's seat in Parliament fell vacant was premature because the Prime Minister had yet to make his stand on the matter. There was thus no basis to make any complaint against the Prime Minister as the application had pre-empted any decision by the Prime Minister. Further, the Prime Minister's decision to advise the President to file a writ of election on 9 May 2012 meant that thereafter there was no factual basis for the Court to rule on the reasonableness or otherwise of the Prime Minister not calling a by-election to fill the vacancy. As such, Vellama had no factual basis upon which to proceed with her case and this alone was sufficient to dismiss her case. On the other hand, since the Court agreed with Vellama that the Constitution requires the Prime Minister to fill casual vacancies arising in SMCs within a reasonable time, it ordered each party to bear its own costs.\n\nWhile the earlier case of \"Tan Eng Hong\" had established the test for standing, namely that \"[when] a public right was involved, the applicant must show that he had suffered special damage as a result of the public act being challenged and that he had a genuine private interest to protect or further\", the Court of Appeal did not elaborate on the meaning of \"special damage\" in that case as it did not concern a public right.\n\nThe Court of Appeal applied its judgment in \"Vellama\" in the later case of \"Jeyaretnam Kenneth Andrew v. Attorney-General\" (2013). Expanding on the meaning of special damage, the Court noted \"that 'special damage' might also possibly encompass those rare and exceptional situations where a public body has breached its public duties in such an egregious manner that the courts are satisfied that it would be in the public interest to hear it\". In the \"National Federation\" case, the House of Lords also suggested the theoretical possibility that an ordinary taxpayer might have standing to bring a claim if a public authority had failed to perform its statutory duty, but it would have to be \"a most extreme case\". Similarly, erring on the side of caution, the Court specified that this is \"a very narrow avenue which concerns only extremely exceptional instances of very grave and serious breaches of legality ... [and] should not in any way be taken as a spurring move towards the surge of public interest litigation\".\n\nThe Court of Appeal in \"Jeyaretnam\" proceeded to emphasize that the principles in \"Boyce\", which represent the view that an individual must have a sufficient personal stake in a matter to have standing, is still the predominant test for most cases. \"Boyce\" been unequivocally applied by the Court of Appeal in both \"Tan Eng Hong\" and \"Vellama\", and it did not depart from this in \"Jeyaretnam\".\n\nIn contrast, the English position pertaining to standing has become more liberal following the issuance in 1977 of Order 53, rule 3(5), of the Rules of the Supreme Court. As a result of this amendment, an applicant is only required to have \"sufficient interest in the matter\". This suggests that a wider discretion is conferred on the English courts to grant leave for judicial review applications to be brought since the presence of a public interest element in the matter suffices even though the applicant may not be personally affected. However, although the discretion is wide, it does not entail that judges can treat any interest as \"sufficient\". In the \"National Federation\" case, Lord Wilberforce cautioned that \"the court must decide on legal principles\". Lord Slynn of Hadley also opined in \"ex parte Salem\" that courts must exercise caution when establishing standing. Additionally, appeals which are academic between the parties should not be heard unless there is strong public interest in doing so.\n\nAs the only House of Lords decision on what constitutes sufficient interest, the \"National Federation\" case is instructive. The Court of Appeal of England and Wales held that the Federation's allegation gave it sufficient interest in the matter since the Federation was not a mere busybody but had a genuine grievance. However, this decision was overturned by the House of Lords as their Lordships were of the opinion that the Federation would only have standing if it was \"a case of sufficient gravity\", there was \"some exceptionally grave or widespread illegality\", or a breach of statutory duty due to \"some grossly improper pressure or motive\". Lord Diplock went further, adding that the Federation would have standing to seek judicial review of any \"ultra vires\" conduct.\n\nSince the \"National Federation\" case, English courts have adopted a much broader approach towards standing. In \"R. v. Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs, ex parte World Development Movement Ltd.\" (1994), a divisional court of England and Wales held that the following factors are relevant when determining whether litigants who lack any direct personal interest in a matter should be recognized as having standing:\n\n\nThe \"Vellama\" decision was described as \"a surprise to those used to a judicial stance that is fairly deferential towards the Government\". The courts take such a deferential stance when dealing with certain types of decisions, often involving complex policy issues or national security. However, the court's statement indicating it would only intervene in \"exceptional cases\" while taking a \"fact sensitive\" approach represents a reservation of a fair amount of leeway for the Prime Minister in making such decisions.\n\nIt has also been noted that the Court of Appeal's approach to constitutional interpretation in the case reflects the approach taken by the Privy Council in \"Minister for Home Affairs v. Fisher\" (1979). Such an approach deems a constitutional instrument as \"sui generis\" and calling for principles of interpretation of its own because full recognition and effect must be given to fundamental rights and freedoms. The Court of Appeal's focus on the suggestion that residents have an entitlement or right to representation rather than on the purpose behind the statute has been described as embracing the \"Fisher\" approach and as a departure from the interpretive approach to constitutional interpretation espoused in section 9A of the Interpretation Act read with Article 2(9) of the Constitution. Section 9A requires a purposive approach to be taken when interpreting laws, and states that an interpretation of a law that would promote the purpose or object underlying the written law (whether that purpose or object is expressly stated in the written law or not) shall be preferred to an interpretation that would not promote that purpose or object. Article 2(9) states: \"Subject to this Article, the Interpretation Act (Cap. 1) shall apply for the purpose of interpreting this Constitution and otherwise in relation thereto as it applies for the purpose of interpreting and otherwise in relation to any written law within the meaning of that Act\".\n\nThe \"Vellama\" decision has also been described as enshrining the principle of judicial independence and impartiality in Singapore by dispelling unfounded beliefs by some members of the public that the judiciary is subject to influence by the legislative and executive branches of government. It has also been said that the decision serves as a definition and recognition of the rights of Singaporeans with regards to whether a by-election must be called. However, because Vellama's appeal was in fact dismissed for lack of standing, the holding of the Court with regards to the Prime Minister's discretion in calling a by-election was \"obiter dicta\" and, strictly speaking, is not binding on other courts faced with a similar decision.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1484640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1484640", "title": "Wildcat banking", "text": "Wildcat banking\n\nWildcat banking refers to the practices of banks chartered under state law during the periods of non-federally regulated state banking between 1836 and 1863 in the United States, also known as the Free Banking Era. This era, commonly described as an example of free banking, was not a period of true free banking, as banks were free of only federal regulation; banking was regulated by the states. The actual regulation of banking during this period varied from state to state.\n\nAccording to some sources, the term came from a bank in Michigan that issued private paper currency with the image of a wildcat. After the bank failed, poorly backed bank notes became known as wildcat currency, and the banks that issued them as wildcat banks. However, according to others, \"wildcat\" meant a rash speculator as early as 1812, and by 1838 had been extended to any risky business venture. A common conception of the wildcat bank in Westerns and like stories was of a bank that left its safe somewhat ajar for depositors to see, in which the banker would display a barrel full of nails, grain or flour with a thin sprinkling of cash on top, thus fooling depositors into thinking it was a successful bank.\n\nThe traditional view of wildcat banks describes them as distributing nearly worthless currency backed by questionable security (such as mortgages and bonds). These actions ended when note circulation by state banks was stopped after the passage of the National Bank Act of 1863. Mark Twain, in his autobiography, refers to the use of such currency in 1853, \"The firm paid my wages in wildcat money at its face value\".\n\nBefore the establishment of the Federal Reserve System in 1913, banks extended loans by issuing notes. An individual may take his promissory notes or bills of exchange to the bank for discount. Banks would issue their own bank notes to the borrowers.\nBank notes were usually backed by specie or government bonds. The holder of the bank note had a claim on the bank's assets. The overwhelming determinate of value on a bank's notes would be the quality of that bank's assets. Many of the states regulations required for the banks to back their notes with state bonds. Banks in states that had safe bonds would thrive whereas banks in states that had risky bonds would suffer. Of course other factors could influence the value of a bank note, the major secondary cause would be the likelihood of fraud, either from the bank or from forgery.\n\nMany varieties of money different banks traded at different discounts to their face value. Lists were published to help bankers and others to identify and appraise the bills (and forgeries). One of the major causes of discounting occurred due to the real cost of transferring the notes to the original bank.\n\n\nIn the Swedish movie \"The New Land--Continuation of The Emigrants\" (1972), the character \"Robert\" is paid in \"wildcat notes\" which is later discovered by his brother \"Karl-Oskar\" (about 2 hours into the movie).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16001916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16001916", "title": "Zero-day (computing)", "text": "Zero-day (computing)\n\nA zero-day (also known as 0-day) vulnerability is a computer-software vulnerability that is unknown to those who would be interested in mitigating the vulnerability (including the vendor of the target software). Until the vulnerability is mitigated, hackers can exploit it to adversely affect computer programs, data, additional computers or a network. An exploit directed at a zero-day is called a zero-day exploit, or zero-day attack.\n\nIn the jargon of computer security, \"Day Zero\" is the day on which the interested party (presumably the vendor of the targeted system) learns of the vulnerability. Up until that day, the vulnerability is known as a zero-day vulnerability. Similarly, an exploitable bug that has been known for thirty days would be called a 30-day vulnerability. Once the vendor learns of the vulnerability, the vendor will usually create patches or advise workarounds to mitigate it. \n\nThe fewer the days since Day Zero, the higher the chance no fix or mitigation has been developed. Even after a fix is developed, the fewer the days since Day Zero, the higher is the probability that an attack against the afflicted software will be successful, because not every user of that software will have applied the fix. For zero-day exploits, the probability that a user has patched their bugs is zero, so the exploit should always succeed. Zero-day attacks are a severe threat.\n\nMalware writers can exploit zero-day vulnerabilities through several different attack vectors. Sometimes, when users visit rogue websites, malicious code on the site can exploit vulnerabilities in Web browsers. Web browsers are a particular target for criminals because of their widespread distribution and usage. Cybercriminals can also send malicious e-mail attachments via SMTP, which exploit vulnerabilities in the application opening the attachment. Exploits that take advantage of common file types are numerous and frequent, as evidenced by their increasing appearances in databases like US-CERT. Criminals can engineer malware to take advantage of these file type exploits to compromise attacked systems or steal confidential data.\n\nThe time from when a software exploit first becomes active to the time when the number of vulnerable systems shrinks to insignificance is known as the Window of Vulnerability (WoV). The time-line for each software vulnerability is defined by the following main events: \nThus the formula for the length of the Window of Vulnerability is: t – t\n\nIn this formulation, it is always true that t ≤ t and t ≤ t. Note that t is not the same as Day Zero. For example, if a hacker is the first to discover (at t) the vulnerability, the vendor might not learn of it until much later (on Day Zero). \n\nFor normal vulnerabilities, t – t > 0. This implies that the software vendor was aware of vulnerability and had time to publish a security patch (t) before any hacker could craft a workable exploit (t). For zero-day exploits, t – t ≤ 0 so that the exploit became active before a patch was made available.\n\nBy not disclosing known vulnerabilities, a software vendor hopes to reach t before t is reached, thus avoiding any exploits. However, the vendor has no guarantees that hackers will not find vulnerabilities on their own. Furthermore, hackers can analyze the security patches themselves, and thereby discover the underlying vulnerabilities and automatically generate working exploits. These exploits can be used effectively up until time t.\n\nIn practice, the size of the WoV varies between systems, vendors, and individual vulnerabilities. It is often measured in days, with one report from 2006 estimating the average as 28 days.\n\nZero-day protection is the ability to provide protection against zero-day exploits. Since zero-day attacks are generally unknown to the public it is often difficult to defend against them. Zero-day attacks are often effective against \"secure\" networks and can remain undetected even after they are launched. Thus, users of so-called secure systems must also exercise common sense and practice safe computing habits.\n\nMany techniques exist to limit the effectiveness of zero-day memory corruption vulnerabilities such as buffer overflows. These protection mechanisms exist in contemporary operating systems such as macOS, Windows Vista and beyond (see also: Security and safety features new to Windows Vista), Solaris, Linux, Unix, and Unix-like environments; Windows XP Service Pack 2 includes limited protection against generic memory corruption vulnerabilities and previous versions include even less. Desktop and server protection software also exists to mitigate zero-day buffer overflow vulnerabilities. Typically these technologies involve heuristic termination analysis—stopping them before they cause any harm.\n\nIt has been suggested that a solution of this kind may be out of reach because it is algorithmically impossible in the general case to analyze any arbitrary code to determine if it is malicious, as such an analysis reduces to the halting problem over a linear bounded automaton, which is unsolvable. It is, however, unnecessary to address the general case (that is, to sort all programs into the categories of malicious or non-malicious) under most circumstances in order to eliminate a wide range of malicious behaviors. It suffices to recognize the safety of a limited set of programs (e.g., those that can access or modify only a given subset of machine resources) while rejecting both some safe and all unsafe programs. This does require the integrity of those safe programs to be maintained, which may prove difficult in the face of a kernel level exploit.\n\nThe Zeroday Emergency Response Team (ZERT) was a group of software engineers who worked to release non-vendor patches for zero-day exploits.\n\nIn a March 9, 2017 press release on the Vault 7 documents that had been released by WikiLeaks 2 days previously, Julian Assange states that much of the leak's remainder included unpatched vulnerabilities and that he was working with IT companies such as Microsoft and Google to get these vulnerabilities patched as he would not release information which would put the public at risk, and as fixes were released by manufacturers he would release details of vulnerabilities.\n\nZero-day worms take advantage of a surprise attack while they are unknown to computer security professionals. Recent history shows an increasing rate of worm propagation. Well designed worms can spread very fast with devastating consequences to the Internet and other systems.\n\nDiffering ideologies exist relative to the collection and use of zero-day vulnerability information. Many computer security vendors perform research on zero-day vulnerabilities in order to better understand the nature of vulnerabilities and their exploitation by individuals, computer worms and viruses. Alternatively, some vendors purchase vulnerabilities to augment their research capacity. An example of such a program is TippingPoint's Zero Day Initiative. While selling and buying these vulnerabilities is not technically illegal in most parts of the world, there is a lot of controversy over the method of disclosure. A 2006 German decision to include Article 6 of the Convention on Cybercrime and the EU Framework Decision on Attacks against Information Systems may make selling or even manufacturing vulnerabilities illegal.\n\nMost formal programs follow some form of Rain Forest Puppy's disclosure guidelines or the more recent OIS Guidelines for Security Vulnerability Reporting and Response. In general these rules forbid the public disclosure of vulnerabilities without notification to the vendor and adequate time to produce a patch.\n\nA zero-day virus (also known as zero-day malware or next-generation malware) is a previously unknown computer virus or other malware for which specific antivirus software signatures are not yet available.\n\nTraditionally, antivirus software relies upon signatures to identify malware. This can be very effective, but cannot defend against malware unless samples have already been obtained, signatures generated and updates distributed to users. Because of this, signature-based approaches are not effective against zero-day viruses.\n\nMost modern antivirus software still uses signatures, but also carries out other types of analysis.\n\nIn code analysis, the machine code of the file is analysed to see if there is anything that looks suspicious. Typically, malware has characteristic behaviour and code analysis attempts to detect if this is present in the code.\n\nAlthough useful, code analysis has significant limitations. It is not always easy to determine what a section of code is intended to do; particularly if it is very complex and has been deliberately written with the intention of defeating analysis. Another limitation of code analysis is the time and resources available. In the competitive world of antivirus software, there is always a balance between the effectiveness of analysis and the time delay involved.\n\nOne approach to overcome the limitations of code analysis is for the antivirus software to run suspect sections of code in a safe sandbox and observe their behaviour. This can be orders of magnitude faster than analysing the same code, but must resist (and detect) attempts by the code to detect the sandbox.\n\nGeneric signatures are signatures that are specific to certain behaviour rather than a specific item of malware. Most new malware is not totally novel, but is a variation on earlier malware, or contains code from one or more earlier examples of malware. Thus the results of previous analysis can be used against new malware.\n\nIt is generally accepted in the antivirus industry that most vendors' signature-based protection is identically effective. If a signature is available for an item of malware, then every product (unless dysfunctional) should detect it. However, some vendors are significantly faster than others at becoming aware of new viruses and/or updating their customers' signature databases to detect them.\n\nThere is a wide range of effectiveness in terms of zero-day virus protection. The German computer magazine c't found that detection rates for zero-day viruses varied from 20% to 68%. It is primarily in the area of zero-day virus performance that manufacturers now compete.\n\nIn mid-April 2017 the hackers known as The Shadow Brokers (TSB)—allegedly linked to the Russian government—released files from the NSA (initially just regarded as alleged to be from the NSA, later confirmed through internal details and by Snowden) which include a series of 'zero-day exploits' targeting Microsoft Windows software and a tool to penetrate the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication (SWIFT)'s service provider. \"Ars Technica\" had reported Shadow Brokers' hacking claims in mid-January 2017 and in April the Shadow Brokers posted the exploits as proof.\n\nThe Vulnerabilities Equities Process, first revealed publicly in 2016, is a process used by the U.S. federal government to determine on a case-by-case basis how it should treat zero-day computer security vulnerabilities; whether to disclose them to the public to help improve general computer security, or to keep them secret for offensive use against the government's adversaries.\n\nThe process has been criticized for a number of deficiencies, including restriction by non-disclosure agreements, lack of risk ratings, special treatment for the NSA, and less than whole-hearted commitment to disclosure as the default option.\n\nA virus signature is a unique pattern or code that can be used to detect and identify specific viruses. The antivirus scans file signatures and compares them to a database of known malicious codes. If they match, the file is flagged and treated as a threat.\nThe major limitation of signature-based detection is that it is only capable of flagging already known malware, making it completely useless against zero-day attacks.\n\n\n\n(Chronological order)\n\n"}
