{"id": "43085963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43085963", "title": "009 Re:Cyborg", "text": "009 Re:Cyborg\n\n009 Re:Cyborg is a 2012 Japanese anime film by Kenji Kamiyama. The film takes place in \"Cyborg 009\"'s future timeline.\nThe year is 2013. Skyscraper bombings are happening all over the world, by the direction of a force called \"His Voice\". 27 years after the 00 Cyborg team disbanded, 007 now works for the British SIS and 002 now works for The USA's NSA after a falling out with the team and Joe. The two agents meet at a bar in New York City to exchange intel about \"His Voice\" and Pyunma's findings of a fossil which resembles an angel's skeleton possibly being related to it. The intelligence agencies of the world are all whispering about the incidents being related to His Voice, the unknown entity that is controlling operatives of the bombings.\n\nJoe Shimamura, who had his memories blocked and reset every 3 years by Professor Gilmore, is now a typical high school student, falsely believing that he has an unseen family and friends due to the \"Augmented Reality\" implanted in his brain. He also has a girlfriend named Tomoe, who seems familiar to him in some way. However, Joe is hearing His Voice due to his cybernetic brain. We learn that he was about to plant a bomb at the Roppongi Hills Tower, until 005 and 003 came to reactivate his memories. Dr. Isaac Gilmore suspects that these were orchestrated by the United States government's National Security Agency, in a bid to regain dominance as a global superpower.\n\nIn Dubai, a B-2 bomber flown by a US Air Force pilot under the control of His Voice launches missiles at the city, with 002 in pursuit to intercept. 009 appears and uses his Acceleration mode to destroy the missiles. After 009 gets knocked off the plane by 002 in a fight, the pilot fires a nuclear bomb which destroys the entire city and kills the population of Dubai. 009 uses his Acceleration Mode to outrun the blast, but is left unconscious and lying on the beach. In his mind, he pictures himself in the burned out city, despondent over his failure. Tomoe appears to comfort him, and remind him of his purpose. Due to the EMP effects of the nuclear blast, communications are down and the team thinks Joe is dead.\n\nNuclear missiles are fired and 003 fires interceptors and disables all of them except for one. With no time to lose, Joe requests 001 to teleport him into space to disarm the missile. 001 agrees but states he will be unable to return him to Earth at that distance, as Ivan would exhaust his power doing so.\n\n002 flies up to try to help 009 but ends up burning out his rockets and damaging his stabilizers, causing him to plummet towards Earth. Joe then speaks to God and says that while humanity is foolish and causes suffering towards each other, he believes in them because they have such great potential to go beyond those vices and make their dreams become reality. He then pleads to him that the earth be spared, only for the bomb to detonate in space with Joe on top of it, the light of the explosion forming a cross. Francoise watches two falling stars, and silently prays upon both.\n\nAfter some indeterminate point of time, Joe finds himself waking up in an apartment in a place that appears to be Venice, and sees Francoise walking across a canal. She explains that he's in her \"safe house\". Jet, Great Britain, and Pyunma also find themselves in the mysterious city, which Dr. Gilmore explains is the world created by His Voice. Back in the safe house, Joe and Fran talk about God for a bit and then the camera pans behind them to reveal that one of the angel skeletons is in her living room as a decoration.\n\nThe movie's final shot after the credits roll ends with the image of an angel skeleton on the surface of the Moon.\n\n\nA 3DCG movie produced by Production I.G., Sanzigen and Ishimori Productions, was released on October 27, 2012. Kenji Kamiyama is the director and writer. Kenji Kawai, who has worked before with Kamiyama on \"\" and \"Eden of the East\", is composing the music. The film was released in Japan on October 27, 2012. It will also open simultaneously in more than five Asian regions, including Hong Kong, Taiwan, Singapore, Malaysia, and South Korea. A manga adaptation by Gatou Asou, character designer for \"Moribito\" and \"Occult Academy\", is currently being serialized in Square Enix's \"Monthly Big Gangan\". The UK anime distributor Anime Limited has announced that they have acquired the movie and will produce an English dub at NYAV Post. Madman Entertainment also has rights to release the film in Australia and New Zealand. At Anime Expo 2013, Funimation had announced that they acquired the film for North America.\n\n"}
{"id": "11195719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11195719", "title": "Aaron of Auxerre", "text": "Aaron of Auxerre\n\nAaron of Auxerre (fl. ~ 800) was a bishop of Auxerre. He has been beatified by the Roman Catholic Church, and his relics are venerated in the Church of Saint-Germain in Auxerre, where his feast day is celebrated on 28 September.\n\nHe is included in the roster of saints in the book \"Les Petits Bollandistes\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1167123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1167123", "title": "Adaptation to extrauterine life", "text": "Adaptation to extrauterine life\n\nAt the end of pregnancy, the fetus must take the journey of childbirth to leave the reproductive mother. Upon its entry to the air-breathing world, the newborn must begin to adjust to life outside the uterus.\n\nThe outside environment is a drastic change for the neonate, therefore the neonate must be assessed frequently and thoroughly. The apgar scale is an assessment performed immediately following birth. It consists of the assessment of heart rate, respiratory effort, muscle tone, reflex irritability, and generalized skin color. (insert table here)\nApgar scoring is performed one minute and five minutes after birth. Scoring ranges from 0 to 10, with 0 indicating severe neonatal distress and 10 indicating a smooth transition to extrauterine life. \n\nNewborns transitioning into extrauterine life will undergo periods of reactivity. These periods are divided into three stages. The first stage occurs in the first 30 minutes of life; during this stage the infant is alert and responsive with heart rate peaking at 160-180 beats per minute and then stabilizes to a baseline rate of 100-120 beats per minute. Crackles upon auscultation and irregular respirations are a normal finding. In the second stage, there is a decrease in responsiveness and motor activity which is often manifested as sleep. This period can last from 1-2 hours. The third stage marks the second period of reactivity. This period can occur anywhere in the first 2 to 8 hours after birth and lasts anywhere from 10 minutes to several hours. Tachycardia and tachypnea may be present during brief periods. Passing of meconium also occurs. \n\nPhysiology: In utero, the placenta delivers oxygenated blood to the fetus through the umbilical vein. Upon delivery, the umbilical cord is cut. The cardiovascular system must now adapt.The detachment of the placenta causes an increase in systemic vascular resistance, which leads to an increase in pressure gradient from the left atrium. The left atrium now has higher pressure than the right atrium causing the \"foramen ovale\" to close. Within the first 10 minutes of birth, blood begins to flow left-to-right through the ductus arteriosus. This causes a significant increase in output of the left ventricle and increase in stroke volume. Subsequently, calcium channel activity increases and potassium channel decreases furthering ductal constriction. Functional closure of the ductus arteriosus occurs within the first 24 hours, with permanent closure following within 4 weeks. Lastly cardiac output increases to nearly double what is was in utero. \nAll of these cardiovascular system changes result in the adaptation from fetal circulation patterns to an adult circulation pattern. During this transition, some types of congenital heart disease that were not symptomatic \"in utero\" during fetal circulation will present with cyanosis or respiratory signs.\nManifestations: When the newborn cries, there is a reversal of blood flow through the foramen ovale which causes the newborn to appear mildly cyanotic in the first few days of life. \nThe heart rate of the newborn should be between 110-160 beats per minute and it is common for the heart rate to be irregular in the first few hours following birth. The heart sounds will have a variation in pitch, duration, and intensity than that of an adult. Blood pressure readings should range from 60 to 80 mm Hg systolic and 40-50 mm Hg diastolic. Mean arterial pressure should be the same as the weeks of gestation at birth. Within the first hour after birth, there may be a drop of up to 15 mm Hg in the systolic blood pressure. \n\nDelayed cord clamping is defined as waiting more than 2 minutes to clamp the newborn’s umbilical cord. This has been proven to be beneficial in improving hematocrit and iron while also decreasing anemia. These benefits can last up to 6 months for the newborn. \n\nAssessments/Interventions: Assessment and monitoring of vital signs and skin color are important in detecting cardiovascular issues in the infant.\nThe apical pulse rate should be auscultated for one full minute when the newborn is calm or sleeping. Any irregular heart rate after the first few hours of life that is not related to crying or another outside factor should be monitored and evaluated. \nBlood pressure will be taken with an appropriately sized cuff, preferably when the newborn is at rest. \nConsistent tachycardia should be evaluated for conditions such as anemia, hyperthermia, hypovolemia, and sepsis. Consistent bradycardia could be an indication of congenital heart block or hypoxemia. Pallor and central cyanosis (cyanosis in hands and feet is a common and normal finding) can also indicate cardiovascular issues. \n\nPhysiology: Upon birth, the newborn's lungs become the center for gas exchange. There are a variety of factors that influence newborn respiratory functions; these factors include chemical, mechanical, thermal, and sensory. Respirations begin when fetal aortic and carotid chemoreceptors are stimulated by the varying concentrations of oxygen and carbon dioxide. During vaginal birth, the newborn's chest is compressed by the birth canal. Upon delivery, negative pressure allows air into the lungs. The first cries of the infant allow for alveoli expansion and absorption of fetal lung fluid. Temperature changes and other sensory stimulation contributes to respiratory function as well. \n\nManifestations: Breathing patterns are often irregular and shallow. The infants respiration rate should be between 30-60 breaths per minute with preference for nasal breathing. Ribs expands horizontally. Breath sounds should be clear and equal in both lungs. Abdominal breathing is normal. Acrocyanosis is a normal finding. \n\nAssessments/Interventions: Suctioning of nasal and oral secretions promotes fluid clearance. Auscultation of lung sounds to assess for any abnormalities. Pulse oximetry is performed to determine oxygen saturation. Monitor signs of respiratory distress such as: nasal flaring, grunting, central cyanosis. \n\nPhysiology: At birth, the newborn is cut off from motherś glucose supply and will begin to rely on stored fat for energy.Glycogen stores are maximal at term. Within the first hour of life, blood glucose will typically reach its lowest point and then stabilize within 2 to 4 hours, hence breastfeeding is promoted immediately. In cases where feeding is delayed, the neonate can use lactate, free-fatty acids, and ketone bodies. \n\nManifestations: Normal blood glucose levels range from 40-50mg/dl. \nRooting and sucking reflex should be present and the neonate will eat small amounts frequently. All vital signs should be within normal limits coinciding with the neonates presentation of calmness and satiation. \n\nAssessments/Interventions: Monitor blood glucose level and encourage breastfeeding or formula feeding as early as possible. Lactation and breastfeeding education should be provided as appropriate. \n\nPhysiology: Newborns lack the ability of thermogenesis due to underdeveloped shivering mechanism. Body heat is lost through conduction, convection, and radiant heat. Thermoregulation is achieved through several methods: the metabolism of brown fat and Kangaroo care, also known as skin to skin. \"brown fat\" which is specialized adipose tissue with a high concentration of mitochondria designed to rapidly oxidize fatty acids in order to generate metabolic heat. Skin to skin to care is the immediate placement of the neonate directly onto a caregivers bare chest. This promotes thermoregulation of the neonate through heat generated from caregiver. \n\nManifestations: Normal temperature ranges between 97.7 and 100.0 degrees. Cold infants may cry or appear restless. Neonates arms and legs maintain a fetal position, lessening their body surface area and reducing heat loss. \n\nAssessments/Interventions: Dry neonate immediately after birth and initiate skin-to-skin contact. Provide warm blankets and a hat. Utilize a radiant warmer if skin-to-skin is not appropriate. Frequently monitor axillary body temperature. Limit neonate’s exposure during diaper changes and assessments. \n\n"}
{"id": "57841422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57841422", "title": "Appen (company)", "text": "Appen (company)\n\nAppen Limited (formerly known as Appen Butler Hill) is a publicly traded company listed on the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX) under the code APX.\n\nAppen provides or improves data used for the development of machine learning and artificial intelligence products. Data types include speech and natural language data, image and video data, text and alphanumeric data and relevance data to improve search and social media engines. Appen’s customers use machine learning for a variety of use cases including automatic speech recognition (ASR), computer vision, increasing conversions in eCommerce, delivering more meaningful and personalized advertising, enhancing social media feeds or improving customer service capabilities with tools like chatbots and virtual assistants. \n\nFor machines to demonstrate artificial intelligence, they need to be programmed with human-quality training data that helps them learn.  Appen uses crowdsourcing to collect and improve data and has access to a skilled crowd of over than 1,000,000 part-time contractors who collect, annotate, evaluate, label, rate, test, translate and transcribe speech, image, text and video data to turn it into effective machine learning training data for a variety of use cases.\n\nThe company’s global headquarters is in Chatswood, New South Wales which is 10 kilometers north of the central business district of Sydney, Australia. The United States headquarters is in Kirkland Washington which is a suburb of Seattle and there are also US offices in San Francisco, California and Detroit, Michigan. Appen also has offices in Beijing, China, Davao City, Philippines, and Exeter, England.\n\nAt the end of 2017, revenues were AUD 166.6 million and the company had more than 350 full time employees and over 1,000,000 approved flexible workers in the Appen crowd. Tasks are performed in more than 180 languages and 130 countries.\n\nMost of the company’s revenues are earned offshore and clients include eight of the top ten largest technology companies.\n\nAppen was founded in Sydney in 1996 by linguist Dr. Julie Vonwiller. She was joined by her husband Chris Vonwiller who left his job at Telstra in 2000 to join Appen full time and is currently Non-Executive Chairman of Appen. \n\nIn 2011, Appen merged with the Butler Hill Group, which was based in Ridgefield, Connecticut and Seattle, Washington and originally founded by Lisa Braden-Harder in 1993. Lisa was a member of the pioneering team in grammar checking technology at the IBM T.J. Watson Research Center before the Butler Hill Group and stayed on as CEO until 2015. After the merger, the combined business became Appen Butler Hill and expanded its business scope to include language resources, search and text. \n\nIn 2012, Appen acquired Wikman Remer, a firm based in San Rafael, California, which developed tools and platforms for employee engagement, online moderation and curation.\n\nAppen Butler Hill was re-branded as Appen in 2013, and it went public on the ASX on January 7, 2015.\n\nIn July of 2015 Mark Brayan joined Appen as CEO and continues to hold that position today.\n\nIn October of 2016 Appen acquired a UK based transcription services company called Mendip Media Group (MMG)\n\nAppen also acquired Leapforce in November of 2017 for U.S. $80M, adding additional capabilities in search relevance and growing its crowd to over 1,000,000 flexible workers. \n\n"}
{"id": "884589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=884589", "title": "Attachment theory", "text": "Attachment theory\n\nAttachment theory is a psychological model attempting to describe the dynamics of long-term and short-term interpersonal relationships between humans. \"Attachment theory is not formulated as a general theory of relationships; it addresses only a specific facet\": how human beings respond within relationships when hurt, separated from loved ones, or perceiving a threat. \n\nProvided any caregiver, all infants become attached--however individual differences in the quality of the relationships remain significant. \n\nIn infants, attachment as a motivational and behavioral system directs the child to seek proximity with a familiar caregiver when they are alarmed, with expectation they will receive protection and emotional support. \n\nJohn Bowlby believed that the tendency for primate infants to develop attachments to familiar caregivers was the result of evolutionary pressures, since attachment behavior would facilitate the infant's survival in the face of dangers such as predation or exposure to the elements.\n\nThe most important tenet of attachment theory is an infant needs to develop a relationship with at least one primary caregiver for the child's successful social and emotional development, and in particular for learning how to regulate their feelings. Any caregiver is likely to become the principal attachment figure if they provide most of the child care and related social interaction. In the presence of a sensitive and responsive caregiver, the infant will use the caregiver as a \"safe base\" from which to explore. \n\nThis relationship can be dyadic, as in the mother-child dyad often studied in Western culture, or it can involve a community of caregivers (siblings/extended family/teachers) as can be seen in areas of Africa and South America. \n\nIt should be recognized \"even sensitive caregivers get it right only about fifty per cent of the time. Their communications are either out of sync, or mismatched. There are times when parents feel tired or distracted. The telephone rings or there is breakfast to prepare. In other words, attuned interactions rupture quite frequently. But the hallmark of a sensitive caregiver is that the ruptures are managed and repaired.\"\n\nAttachments between infants and caregivers form even if this caregiver is not sensitive and responsive in social interactions with them. This has important implications. Infants cannot exit unpredictable or insensitive caregiving relationships. Instead they must manage themselves as best they can within such relationships. \n\nBased on her established Strange Situation Protocol, research by developmental psychologist Mary Ainsworth in the 1960s and 1970s found children will have different patterns of attachment depending on how they experienced their early caregiving environment. Early patterns of attachment, in turn, shape — but do not determine — the individual's expectations in later relationships.<ref name=\"Bretherton/Mul\"></ref> \n\nFour different attachment classifications have been identified in children: secure attachment, anxious-ambivalent attachment, anxious-avoidant attachment, and disorganized attachment. \n\nSecure attachment is when children feel they can rely on their caregivers to attend to their needs of proximity, emotional support and protection. It is considered to be the best attachment style. \n\nAnxious-ambivalent attachment is when the infant feels separation anxiety when separated from the caregiver and does not feel reassured when the caregiver returns to the infant. \n\nAnxious-avoidant attachment is when the infant avoids their parents. \n\nDisorganized attachment is when there is a lack of attachment behavior.\n\nIn the 1980s, the theory was extended to attachment in adults. Attachment applies to adults when adults feel close attachment to their parents, their romantic and platonic partners and their friends.\n\nAttachment theory has become the dominant theory used today in the study of infant and toddler behavior and in the fields of infant mental health, treatment of children, and related fields.\n\nWithin attachment theory, \"attachment\" means \"a biological instinct in which proximity to an attachment figure is sought when the child senses or perceives threat or discomfort. Attachment behaviour anticipates a response by the attachment figure which will remove threat or discomfort\". Such bonds may be reciprocal between two adults, but between a child and a caregiver these bonds are based on the child's need for safety, security and protection, paramount in infancy and childhood. \n\nJohn Bowlby begins by noting organisms at different levels of the phylogenetic scale regulate instinctive behavior in distinct ways, ranging from primitive reflex-like \"fixed action patterns\" to complex plan hierarchies with subgoals and strong learning components. In the most complex organisms, instinctive behaviors may be \"goal-corrected\" with continual on-course adjustments (such as a bird of prey adjusting its flight to the movements of the prey). \n\nThe concept of cybernetically controlled behavioral systems organized as plan hierarchies (Miller, Galanter, and Pribram, 1960) thus came to replace Freud's concept of drive and instinct. Such systems regulate behaviors in ways that need not be rigidly innate, but—depending on the organism—can adapt in greater or lesser degrees to changes in environmental circumstances, provided these do not deviate much from the organism's environment of evolutionary adaptedness. Such flexible organisms pay a price, however, because adaptable behavioral systems can more easily be subverted from their optimal path of development. \n\nFor humans, Bowlby speculates, the environment of evolutionary adaptedness probably resembles present-day hunter-gatherer societies for the purpose of survival, and, ultimately, genetic replication. \n\nAttachment theory is not an exhaustive description of human relationships, nor is it synonymous with love and affection, although these may indicate bonds exist. Some infants direct attachment behaviour (proximity seeking) toward more than one attachment figure almost as soon as they start to show discrimination between caregivers; most come to do so during their second year. These figures are arranged hierarchically, with the principal attachment figure at the top. \n\nThe set-goal of the attachment behavioural system is to maintain the accessibility and availability of the attachment figure. Many cultures use multiple forms of attachment including the dyadic model most prominent in Western cultures and allomothering. \n\nAlarm is the term used for activation of the attachment behavioural system caused by fear of danger. \n\nAnxiety is the anticipation or fear of being cut off from the attachment figure. If the figure is unavailable or unresponsive, separation distress occurs. \n\nIn infants, physical separation can cause anxiety and anger, followed by sadness and despair. By age three or four, physical separation is no longer such a threat to the child's bond with the attachment figure. Threats to security in older children and adults arise from prolonged absence, breakdowns in communication, emotional unavailability, or signs of rejection or abandonment.\n\nThe attachment behavioural system serves to achieve or maintain proximity to the attachment figure. \n\nPre-attachment behaviours occur in the first six months of life. During the first phase (the first eight weeks), infants smile, babble, and cry to attract the attention of potential caregivers. Although infants of this age learn to discriminate between caregivers, these behaviours are directed at anyone in the vicinity. \n\nDuring the second phase (two to six months), the infant discriminates between familiar and unfamiliar adults, becoming more responsive toward the caregiver; following and clinging are added to the range of behaviours. The infant's behaviour toward the caregiver becomes organized on a goal-directed basis to achieve the conditions that make it feel secure. \n\nBy the end of the first year, the infant is able to display a range of attachment behaviours designed to maintain proximity. These manifest as protesting the caregiver's departure, greeting the caregiver's return, clinging when frightened, and following when able. \n\nWith the development of locomotion, the infant begins to use the caregiver or caregivers as a \"safe base\" from which to explore. Infant exploration is greater when the caregiver is present because the infant's attachment system is relaxed and it is free to explore. If the caregiver is inaccessible or unresponsive, attachment behaviour is more strongly exhibited. Anxiety, fear, illness, and fatigue will cause a child to increase attachment behaviours.\n\nAfter the second year, as the child begins to see the caregiver as an independent person, a more complex and goal-corrected partnership is formed. Children begin to notice others' goals and feelings and plan their actions accordingly. For example, whereas babies cry because of pain, two-year-olds cry to summon their caregiver, and if that does not work, cry louder, shout, or follow.\n\nCommon attachment behaviours and emotions, displayed in most social primates including humans, are adaptive. The long-term evolution of these species has involved selection for social behaviors that make individual or group survival more likely. The commonly observed attachment behaviour of toddlers staying near familiar people would have had safety advantages in the environment of early adaptation, and has similar advantages today. Bowlby saw the environment of early adaptation as similar to current hunter-gatherer societies. There is a survival advantage in the capacity to sense possibly dangerous conditions such as unfamiliarity, being alone, or rapid approach. According to Bowlby, proximity-seeking to the attachment figure in the face of threat is the \"set-goal\" of the attachment behavioural system.\nBowlby's original account of a sensitivity period during which attachments can form of between six months and two to three years has been modified by later researchers. These researchers have shown there is indeed a sensitive period during which attachments will form if possible, but the time frame is broader and the effect less fixed and irreversible than first proposed. \n\nWith further research, authors discussing attachment theory have come to appreciate social development is affected by later as well as earlier relationships. Early steps in attachment take place most easily if the infant has one caregiver, or the occasional care of a small number of other people. According to Bowlby, almost from the beginning, many children have more than one figure toward whom they direct attachment behaviour. These figures are not treated alike; there is a strong bias for a child to direct attachment behaviour mainly toward one particular person. Bowlby used the term \"monotropy\" to describe this bias. Researchers and theorists have abandoned this concept insofar as it may be taken to mean the relationship with the special figure differs \"qualitatively\" from that of other figures. Rather, current thinking postulates definite hierarchies of relationships.\n\nEarly experiences with caregivers gradually give rise to a system of thoughts, memories, beliefs, expectations, emotions, and behaviours about the self and others. This system, called the \"internal working model of social relationships\", continues to develop with time and experience. \n\nInternal models regulate, interpret, and predict attachment-related behaviour in the self and the attachment figure. As they develop in line with environmental and developmental changes, they incorporate the capacity to reflect and communicate about past and future attachment relationships. They enable the child to handle new types of social interactions; knowing, for example, an infant should be treated differently from an older child, or that interactions with teachers and parents share characteristics. This internal working model continues to develop through adulthood, helping cope with friendships, marriage, and parenthood, all of which involve different behaviours and feelings. \n\nThe development of attachment is a transactional process. Specific attachment behaviours begin with predictable, apparently innate, behaviours in infancy. They change with age in ways determined partly by experiences and partly by situational factors. As attachment behaviours change with age, they do so in ways shaped by relationships. A child's behaviour when reunited with a caregiver is determined not only by how the caregiver has treated the child before, but on the history of effects the child has had on the caregiver.\n\nIn Western culture child-rearing, there is a focus on single attachment to primarily the mother. This dyadic model is not the only strategy of attachment producing a secure and emotionally adept child. Having a single, dependably responsive and sensitive caregiver (namely the mother) does not guarantee the ultimate success of the child. Results from Israeli, Dutch and east African studies show children with multiple caregivers grow up not only feeling secure, but developed \"more enhanced capacities to view the world from multiple perspectives.\" This evidence can be more readily found in hunter-gatherer communities rather than Western day-care contexts.\n\nIn hunter-gatherer communities, in the past and present, mothers are the primary caregivers but share the maternal responsibility of ensuring the child's survival with a variety of different allomothers. So while the mother is important, she is not the only opportunity for relational attachment a child can make. Several group members (with or without blood relation) contribute to the task of bringing up a child, sharing the parenting role and therefore can be sources of multiple attachment. There is evidence of this communal parenting throughout history that \"would have significant implications for the evolution of multiple attachment.\"\n\nIn \"non-metropolis\" India (where \"dual income nuclear families\" are more the norm / dyadic mother relationship is), where a family normally consists of 3 generations (and if lucky 4: grandparents, parents & child / children, and maybe great-grandparents too), the child / children by default have four / six caregivers from whom to select for their \"attachment figure\". And a child's \"uncles and aunts\" (father's siblings and their spouses) also contribute to the child's psycho-social enrichment.\n\nAlthough it has been debated for years, and there are tedious differences amongst cultures, research shows that the three basic aspects of Attachment Theory are in fact universal. The Hypotheses are: 1)that secure attachment is the most desirable state, and the most prevalent. 2) maternal sensitivity influences infant attachment patterns and 3) specific infant attachments predict later social and cognitive competence. \n\nThe most common and empirically supported method for assessing attachment in infants (11 months–17 months) is the Strange Situation Protocol, developed by Mary Ainsworth as a result of her careful in-depth observations of infants with their mothers in Baltimore, USA (see below). The Strange Situation Protocol is a research tool that was not intended for diagnostic purposes. While the procedure may be used to supplement clinical impressions, the resulting classifications should not be confused with the psychiatric diagnosis 'Reactive Attachment Disorder (RAD)'. The clinical concept of RAD differs in a number of fundamental ways from the theory and research driven attachment classifications based on the Strange Situation Procedure. The idea that insecure attachments are synonymous with RAD is, in fact, not accurate and leads to ambiguity when formally discussing attachment theory as it has evolved in the research literature. This is not to suggest that the concept of RAD is without merit, but rather that the clinical and research conceptualizations of insecure attachment and attachment disorder are not synonymous.\n\nThe 'Strange Situation' is a laboratory procedure used to assess infants' pattern of attachment to their caregiver by introducing an unexpected threat, two brief separations from the mother followed by reunion. In the procedure, the mother and infant are placed in an unfamiliar playroom equipped with toys while a researcher films the procedure through a one-way mirror. The procedure consists of eight sequential episodes in which the infant experiences both separation from and reunion with the mother as well as the presence of an unfamiliar person (the Stranger). The protocol is conducted in the following format unless modifications are otherwise noted by a particular researcher:\n\n\nMainly on the basis of their reunion behaviour (although other behaviors are taken into account) in the Strange Situation Paradigm (Ainsworth et al., 1978; see below), infants can be categorized into three 'organized' attachment categories: Group B (later called 'secure'), Group A (later called 'anxious avoidant'), and Group C (later called 'anxious ambivalent'). There are subclassifications for each group (see below).\n\nBeginning in 1970, a series of expansions were added to Ainsworth's original patterns. They include the following: B4 (1970), A/C (1985) D/disorganized (1986), B5 (1988, 1992) A+, C+, & Depressed (1992, 2010). At later ages, additional categories have been described. Each of these patterns reflects a different kind of attachment relationship of the infant with the mother/caregiver. An infant may have a different pattern of attachment to each parent as well as to alternate caregivers. Pattern of attachment is thus not a part of the infant, but is characteristic of the protective and comforting quality of a specific relationship. These attachment patterns are associated with behavioral patterns and can help further predict a child's future personality.\n\n\"The strength of a child's attachment behaviour in a given circumstance does not indicate the 'strength' of the attachment bond. Some insecure children will routinely display very pronounced attachment behaviours, while many secure children find that there is no great need to engage in either intense or frequent shows of attachment behaviour.\" “Individuals with different attachment styles have different beliefs about romantic love period, availability, trust capability of love partners and love readiness.” \n\nA toddler who is securely attached to his or her parent (or other familiar caregiver) will explore freely while the caregiver is present, typically engages with strangers, is often visibly upset when the caregiver departs, and is generally happy to see the caregiver return. The extent of exploration and of distress are affected, however, by the child's temperamental make-up and by situational factors as well as by attachment status. A child's attachment is largely influenced by their primary caregiver's sensitivity to their needs. Parents who consistently (or almost always) respond to their child's needs will create securely attached children. Such children are certain that their parents will be responsive to their needs and communications.\n\nIn the traditional Ainsworth et al. (1978) coding of the Strange Situation, secure infants are denoted as \"Group B\" infants and they are further subclassified as B1, B2, B3, and B4. Although these subgroupings refer to different stylistic responses to the comings and goings of the caregiver, they were not given specific labels by Ainsworth and colleagues, although their descriptive behaviors led others (including students of Ainsworth) to devise a relatively \"loose\" terminology for these subgroups. B1's have been referred to as \"secure-reserved\", B2's as 'secure-inhibited', B3's as \"secure-balanced\", and B4's as \"secure-reactive\". In academic publications however, the classification of infants (if subgroups are denoted) is typically simply \"B1\" or \"B2\" although more theoretical and review-oriented papers surrounding attachment theory may use the above terminology.\n\nSecurely attached children are best able to explore when they have the knowledge of a secure base (their caregiver) to return to in times of need. When assistance is given, this bolsters the sense of security and also, assuming the parent's assistance is helpful, educates the child in how to cope with the same problem in the future. Therefore, secure attachment can be seen as the most adaptive attachment style. According to some psychological researchers, a child becomes securely attached when the parent is available and able to meet the needs of the child in a responsive and appropriate manner. At infancy and early childhood, if parents are caring and attentive towards their children, those children will be more prone to secure attachment.\n\nAnxious-ambivalent attachment is also misnamed as \"resistant attachment\". In general, a child with an anxious-ambivalent pattern of attachment will typically explore little (in the Strange Situation) and is often wary of strangers, even when the parent is present. When the mother departs, the child is often highly distressed. The child is generally ambivalent when his mother returns. The anxious-ambivalent strategy is a response to unpredictably responsive caregiving, and the displays of anger (ambivalent resistant) or helplessness (ambivalent passive) towards the caregiver on reunion can be regarded as a conditional strategy for maintaining the availability of the caregiver by preemptively taking control of the interaction.\n\nThe C1 (ambivalent resistant) subtype is coded when \"resistant behavior is particularly conspicuous. The mixture of seeking and yet resisting contact and interaction has an unmistakably angry quality and indeed an angry tone may characterize behavior in the preseparation episodes\".\n\nRegarding the C2 (ambivalent passive) subtype, Ainsworth et al. wrote:Perhaps the most conspicuous characteristic of C2 infants is their passivity. Their exploratory behavior is limited throughout the SS and their interactive behaviors are relatively lacking in active initiation. Nevertheless, in the reunion episodes they obviously want proximity to and contact with their mothers, even though they tend to use signalling rather than active approach, and protest against being put down rather than actively resisting release ... In general the C2 baby is not as conspicuously angry as the C1 baby.Research done by McCarthy and Taylor (1999), found that children with abusive childhood experiences were more likely to develop ambivalent attachments. The study also found that children with ambivalent attachments were more likely to experience difficulties in maintaining intimate relationships as adults.\n\nAn infant with an anxious-avoidant pattern of attachment will avoid or ignore the caregiver—showing little emotion when the caregiver departs or returns. The infant will not explore very much regardless of who is there. Infants classified as anxious-avoidant (A) represented a puzzle in the early 1970s. They did not exhibit distress on separation, and either ignored the caregiver on their return (A1 subtype) or showed some tendency to approach together with some tendency to ignore or turn away from the caregiver (A2 subtype). Ainsworth and Bell theorized that the apparently unruffled behaviour of the avoidant infants was in fact a mask for distress, a hypothesis later evidenced through studies of the heart-rate of avoidant infants.\n\nInfants are depicted as anxious-avoidant when there is:... conspicuous avoidance of the mother in the reunion episodes which is likely to consist of ignoring her altogether, although there may be some pointed looking away, turning away, or moving away ... If there is a greeting when the mother enters, it tends to be a mere look or a smile ... Either the baby does not approach his mother upon reunion, or they approach in \"abortive\" fashions with the baby going past the mother, or it tends to only occur after much coaxing ... If picked up, the baby shows little or no contact-maintaining behavior; he tends not to cuddle in; he looks away and he may squirm to get down.Ainsworth's narrative records showed that infants avoided the caregiver in the stressful Strange Situation Procedure when they had a history of experiencing rebuff of attachment behaviour. The infant's needs were frequently not met and the infant had come to believe that communication of emotional needs had no influence on the caregiver. \n\nAinsworth's student Mary Main theorized that avoidant behaviour in the Strange Situation Procedure should be regarded as \"a conditional strategy, which paradoxically permits whatever proximity is possible under conditions of maternal rejection\" by de-emphasising attachment needs. \n\nMain proposed that avoidance has two functions for an infant whose caregiver is consistently unresponsive to their needs. Firstly, avoidant behaviour allows the infant to maintain a conditional proximity with the caregiver: close enough to maintain protection, but distant enough to avoid rebuff. Secondly, the cognitive processes organising avoidant behaviour could help direct attention away from the unfulfilled desire for closeness with the caregiver—avoiding a situation in which the child is overwhelmed with emotion (\"disorganized distress\"), and therefore unable to maintain control of themselves and achieve even conditional proximity.\n\nAinsworth herself was the first to find difficulties in fitting all infant behaviour into the three classifications used in her Baltimore study. Ainsworth and colleagues sometimes observed \"tense movements such as hunching the shoulders, putting the hands behind the neck and tensely cocking the head, and so on. It was our clear impression that such tension movements signified stress, both because they tended to occur chiefly in the separation episodes and because they tended to be prodromal to crying. Indeed, our hypothesis is that they occur when a child is attempting to control crying, for they tend to vanish if and when crying breaks through.\" Such observations also appeared in the doctoral theses of Ainsworth's students. Crittenden, for example, noted that one abused infant in her doctoral sample was classed as secure (B) by her undergraduate coders because her strange situation behavior was \"without either avoidance or ambivalence, she did show stress-related stereotypic headcocking throughout the strange situation. This pervasive behavior, however, was the only clue to the extent of her stress\". Beginning in 1983, Crittenden offered A/C and other new organized classifications (see below). Drawing on records of behaviours discrepant with the A, B and C classifications, a fourth classification was added by Ainsworth's colleague Mary Main. In the Strange Situation, the attachment system is expected to be activated by the departure and return of the caregiver. If the behaviour of the infant does not appear to the observer to be coordinated in a smooth way across episodes to achieve either proximity or some relative proximity with the caregiver, then it is considered 'disorganized' as it indicates a disruption or flooding of the attachment system (e.g. by fear). Infant behaviours in the Strange Situation Protocol coded as disorganized/disoriented include overt displays of fear; contradictory behaviours or affects occurring simultaneously or sequentially; stereotypic, asymmetric, misdirected or jerky movements; or freezing and apparent dissociation. Lyons-Ruth has urged, however, that it should be more widely \"recognized that 52% of disorganized infants continue to approach the caregiver, seek comfort, and cease their distress without clear ambivalent or avoidant behavior\".\n\nThere is rapidly growing interest in disorganized attachment from clinicians and policy-makers as well as researchers. However, the disorganized/disoriented attachment (D) classification has been criticized by some for being too encompassing, including Ainsworth herself. In 1990, Ainsworth put in print her blessing for the new 'D' classification, though she urged that the addition be regarded as \"open-ended, in the sense that subcategories may be distinguished\", as she worried that too many different forms of behaviour might be treated as if they were the same thing. Indeed, the D classification puts together infants who use a somewhat disrupted secure (B) strategy with those who seem hopeless and show little attachment behaviour; it also puts together infants who run to hide when they see their caregiver in the same classification as those who show an avoidant (A) strategy on the first reunion and then an ambivalent-resistant (C) strategy on the second reunion. Perhaps responding to such concerns, George and Solomon have divided among indices of disorganized/disoriented attachment (D) in the Strange Situation, treating some of the behaviours as a 'strategy of desperation' and others as evidence that the attachment system has been flooded (e.g. by fear, or anger). Moreover, Crittenden argues that some behaviour classified as Disorganized/disoriented can be regarded as more 'emergency' versions of the avoidant and/or ambivalent/resistant strategies, and function to maintain the protective availability of the caregiver to some degree. Sroufe et al. have agreed that \"even disorganized attachment behaviour (simultaneous approach-avoidance; freezing, etc.) enables a degree of proximity in the face of a frightening or unfathomable parent\". However, \"the presumption that many indices of 'disorganization' are aspects of organized patterns does not preclude acceptance of the notion of disorganization, especially in cases where the complexity and dangerousness of the threat are beyond children's capacity for response.\" For example, \"Children placed in care, especially more than once, often have intrusions. In videos of the Strange Situation Procedure, they tend to occur when a rejected/neglected child approaches the stranger in an intrusion of desire for comfort, then loses muscular control and falls to the floor, overwhelmed by the intruding fear of the unknown, potentially dangerous, strange person.\"\n\nMain and Hesse found most of the mothers of these children had suffered major losses or other trauma shortly before or after the birth of the infant and had reacted by becoming severely depressed. In fact, fifty-six per cent of mothers who had lost a parent by death before they completed high school had children with disorganized attachments. Subsequent studies, whilst emphasising the potential importance of unresolved loss, have qualified these findings. For example, Solomon and George found unresolved loss in the mother tended to be associated with disorganized attachment in their infant primarily when they had also experienced an unresolved trauma in their life prior to the loss.\n\nAcross different cultures deviations from the Strange Situation Protocol have been observed. A Japanese study in 1986 (Takahashi) studied 60 Japanese mother-infant pairs and compared them with Ainsworth's distributional pattern. Although the ranges for securely attached and insecurely attached had no significant differences in proportions, the Japanese insecure group consisted of only resistant children with no children categorized as avoidant. This may be because the Japanese child rearing philosophy stressed close mother infant bonds than in Western cultures. In Northern Germany, Grossmann et al. (Grossmann, Huber, & Wartner, 1981; Grossmann, Spangler, Suess, & Unzner, 1985) replicated the Ainsworth Strange Situation with 46 mother infant pairs and found a different distributions of attachment classifications with a high number of avoidant infants: 52% avoidant, 34% secure, and 13% resistant (Grossmann et al., 1985). Another study in Israel found there was a high frequency of an ambivalent pattern which according to Grossman et al. (1985) could be attributed a greater parental push toward children's independence. Although it has been debated for years, and there are tedious differences amongst cultures, research shows that the three basic aspects of Attachment Theory are in fact universal. The Hypotheses are: 1)that secure attachment is the most desirable state, and the most prevalent. 2) maternal sensitivity influences infant attachment patterns and 3) specific infant attachments predict later social and cognitive competence. \n\nTechniques have been developed to allow verbal ascertainment of the child's state of mind with respect to attachment. An example is the \"stem story\", in which a child is given the beginning of a story that raises attachment issues and asked to complete it. For older children, adolescents and adults, semi-structured interviews are used in which the manner of relaying content may be as significant as the content itself. However, there are no substantially validated measures of attachment for middle childhood or early adolescence (approximately 7 to 13 years of age).\nSome studies of older children have identified further attachment classifications. Main and Cassidy observed that disorganized behavior in infancy can develop into a child using caregiving-controlling or punitive behaviour in order to manage a helpless or dangerously unpredictable caregiver. In these cases, the child's behaviour is organized, but the behaviour is treated by researchers as a form of 'disorganization' (D) since the hierarchy in the family is no longer organized according to parenting authority.\n\nPatricia McKinsey Crittenden has elaborated classifications of further forms of avoidant and ambivalent attachment behaviour. These include the caregiving and punitive behaviours also identified by Main and Cassidy (termed A3 and C3 respectively), but also other patterns such as compulsive compliance with the wishes of a threatening parent (A4).\n\nCrittenden's ideas developed from Bowlby's proposal that \"given certain adverse circumstances during childhood, the selective exclusion of information of certain sorts may be adaptive. Yet, when during adolescence and adulthood the situation changes, the persistent exclusion of the same forms of information may become maladaptive\".\n\nCrittenden proposed that the basic components of human experience of danger are two kinds of information:\n\n1. 'Affective information' – the emotions provoked by the potential for danger, such as anger or fear. Crittenden terms this \"affective information\". In childhood this information would include emotions provoked by the unexplained absence of an attachment figure. Where an infant is faced with insensitive or rejecting parenting, one strategy for maintaining the availability of their attachment figure is to try to exclude from consciousness or from expressed behaviour any emotional information that might result in rejection.\n\n2. Causal or other sequentially-ordered knowledge about the potential for safety or danger. In childhood this would include knowledge regarding the behaviours that indicate an attachment figure's availability as a secure haven. If knowledge regarding the behaviours that indicate an attachment figure's availability as a secure haven is subject to segregation, then the infant can try to keep the attention of their caregiver through clingy or aggressive behaviour, or alternating combinations of the two. Such behaviour may increase the availability of an attachment figure who otherwise displays inconsistent or misleading responses to the infant's attachment behaviours, suggesting the unreliability of protection and safety.\n\nCrittenden proposes that both kinds of information can be split off from consciousness or behavioural expression as a 'strategy' to maintain the availability of an attachment figure (See section above on Disorganized/disoriented attachment for distinction of \"Types\"): \"Type A strategies were hypothesized to be based on reducing perception of threat to reduce the disposition to respond. Type C was hypothesized to be based on heightening perception of threat to increase the disposition to respond.\" Type A strategies split off emotional information about feeling threatened and type C strategies split off temporally-sequenced knowledge about how and why the attachment figure is available. By contrast, type B strategies effectively utilise both kinds of information without much distortion. For example: a toddler may have come to depend upon a type C strategy of tantrums in working to maintain the availability of an attachment figure whose inconsistent availability has led the child to distrust or distort causal information about their apparent behaviour. This may lead their attachment figure to get a clearer grasp on their needs and the appropriate response to their attachment behaviours. Experiencing more reliable and predictable information about the availability of their attachment figure, the toddler then no longer needs to use coercive behaviours with the goal of maintaining their caregiver's availability and can develop a secure attachment to their caregiver since they trust that their needs and communications will be heeded.\n\nResearch based on data from longitudinal studies, such as the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development Study of Early Child Care and the Minnesota Study of Risk and Adaption from Birth to Adulthood, and from cross-sectional studies, consistently shows associations between early attachment classifications and peer relationships as to both quantity and quality. Lyons-Ruth, for example, found that \"for each additional withdrawing behavior displayed by mothers in relation to their infant's attachment cues in the Strange Situation Procedure, the likelihood of clinical referral by service providers was increased by 50%.\"\n\nThere is an extensive body of research demonstrating a significant association between attachment organizations and children's functioning across multiple domains. Early insecure attachment does not necessarily predict difficulties, but it is a liability for the child, particularly if similar parental behaviours continue throughout childhood. Compared to that of securely attached children, the adjustment of insecure children in many spheres of life is not as soundly based, putting their future relationships in jeopardy. Although the link is not fully established by research and there are other influences besides attachment, secure infants are more likely to become socially competent than their insecure peers. Relationships formed with peers influence the acquisition of social skills, intellectual development and the formation of social identity. Classification of children's peer status (popular, neglected or rejected) has been found to predict subsequent adjustment. Insecure children, particularly avoidant children, are especially vulnerable to family risk. Their social and behavioural problems increase or decline with deterioration or improvement in parenting. However, an early secure attachment appears to have a lasting protective function. As with attachment to parental figures, subsequent experiences may alter the course of development.\n\nStudies have suggested that infants with a high-risk for Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASD) may express attachment security differently from infants with a low-risk for ASD. Behavioral problems and social competence in insecure children increase or decline with deterioration or improvement in quality of parenting and the degree of risk in the family environment.\n\nSome authors have questioned the idea that a taxonomy of categories representing a qualitative difference in attachment relationships can be developed. Examination of data from 1,139 15-month-olds showed that variation in attachment patterns was continuous rather than grouped. This criticism introduces important questions for attachment typologies and the mechanisms behind apparent types. However, it has relatively little relevance for attachment theory itself, which \"neither requires nor predicts discrete patterns of attachment.\"\n\nThere is some evidence that gender differences in attachment patterns of adaptive significance begin to emerge in middle childhood. Insecure attachment and early psychosocial stress indicate the presence of environmental risk (for example poverty, mental illness, instability, minority status, violence). Environmental risk can cause insecure attachment, while also favouring the development of strategies for earlier reproduction. Different reproductive strategies have different adaptive values for males and females: Insecure males tend to adopt avoidant strategies, whereas insecure females tend to adopt anxious/ambivalent strategies, unless they are in a very high risk environment. Adrenarche is proposed as the endocrine mechanism underlying the reorganization of insecure attachment in middle childhood.\n\nChildhood and adolescence allows the development of an internal working model useful for forming attachments. This internal working model is related to the individual's state of mind which develops with respect to attachment generally and explores how attachment functions in relationship dynamics based on childhood and adolescent experience. The organization of an internal working model is generally seen as leading to more stable attachments in those who develop such a model, rather than those who rely more on the individual's state of mind alone in forming new attachments.\n\nAge, cognitive growth, and continued social experience advance the development and complexity of the internal working model. Attachment-related behaviours lose some characteristics typical of the infant-toddler period and take on age-related tendencies. The preschool period involves the use of negotiation and bargaining. For example, four-year-olds are not distressed by separation if they and their caregiver have already negotiated a shared plan for the separation and reunion.\n\nIdeally, these social skills become incorporated into the internal working model to be used with other children and later with adult peers. As children move into the school years at about six years old, most develop a goal-corrected partnership with parents, in which each partner is willing to compromise in order to maintain a gratifying relationship. By middle childhood, the goal of the attachment behavioural system has changed from proximity to the attachment figure to availability. Generally, a child is content with longer separations, provided contact—or the possibility of physically reuniting, if needed—is available. Attachment behaviours such as clinging and following decline and self-reliance increases. By middle childhood (ages 7–11), there may be a shift toward mutual coregulation of secure-base contact in which caregiver and child negotiate methods of maintaining communication and supervision as the child moves toward a greater degree of independence.\n\nThe attachment system used by adolescences is seen as a \"safety regulating system\" whose main function is to promote physical and psychological safety. There are 2 different events that can trigger the attachment system. Those triggers include, the presence of a potential danger or stress, internal and external, and a threat of accessibility and or availability of an attachment figure. The ultimate goal of the attachment system is security, so during a time of danger or inaccessibility the behavioral system accepts felt security in the context of the availability of protection. By adolescences we are able to find security through a variety of things, such as food, exercise, and social media. Felt security can be achieved through a number of ways, and often without the physical presence of the attachment figure. Higher levels of maturity allows adolescences teens to more capably interact with their environment on their own because the environment is perceived as less threatening. Adolescences teens will also see an increase in cognitive, emotional and behavioral maturity that dictates whether or not teens are less likely to experience conditions that activate their need for an attachment figure. For example, when teenagers get sick and stay home from school, surely they want their parents to be home so they can take care of them, but they are also able to stay home by themselves without experiencing serious amounts of distress. \n\nHere are the attachment style differences during adolescences. \nSecure adolescences are expected to hold their mothers at a higher rate than all other support figures, including father, boy and girlfriends, and best friends.\nInsecure adolescences identify more strongly with their peers than their parents as their primary attachment figures. Their friends are seen as a significantly strong source of attachment support.\nDismissing adolescences rate their parents as a less significant source of attachment support and would consider themselves as their primary attachment figure.\nPreoccupied adolescences would rate their parents a their primary source of attachment support and would consider themselves as a much less significant source of attachment support.\n\nAttachment theory was extended to adult romantic relationships in the late 1980s by Cindy Hazan and Phillip Shaver. Four styles of attachment have been identified in adults: secure, anxious-preoccupied, dismissive-avoidant and fearful-avoidant. These roughly correspond to infant classifications: secure, insecure-ambivalent, insecure-avoidant and disorganized/disoriented.\n\nSecurely attached adults tend to have positive views of themselves, their partners and their relationships. They feel comfortable with intimacy and independence, balancing the two. Feeling sure has to do with a persons perception of control, feelings of competence, and a belief that they posses the ability to meet the challenges that they will face in the future. With adults, attachments in general, are more cumulative and much more multifaceted than earlier attachments. There are more exchanges of support within someones inner circle relationships or secure relationships, such as respect, confiding, reassurance, sick care, talking about one's health, and talking about things that could Corry or upset them. these types of exchanges provide adults with a secure base that they are able to depend on on a daily basis. \n\nAnxious-preoccupied adults seek high levels of intimacy, approval and responsiveness from partners, becoming overly dependent. They tend to be less trusting, have less positive views about themselves and their partners, and may exhibit high levels of emotional expressiveness, worry and impulsiveness in their relationships. the anxiety that adults feel prevent the establishment of satisfactory defense exclusion. Thus, it is possible that individuals that have been anxiously attached to their attachment figure or figures have not been able to develop sufficient defenses against separation anxiety. Because their lack of preparation these individuals will then overreact to the anticipation of separation or the actual separation from their attachment figure. The anxiety comes from an individuals intense and/or unstable relationship that live the anxious or preoccupied individual in relatively defenseless. Adults with this attachment style tend to look way to far into things, whether that's a text message or a face-to-face conversation. Their thought and actions can lead to a painful cycle of self-fulfilling prophecies and even self-sabotage. They often seek a dismissive-avoidant partner. \n\nDismissive-avoidant adults desire a high level of independence, often appearing to avoid attachment altogether. They view themselves as self-sufficient, invulnerable to attachment feelings and not needing close relationships. They tend to suppress their feelings, dealing with conflict by distancing themselves from partners of whom they often have a poor opinion. Adults lack the interest of forming close relationships and maintaining emotional closeness with the people around them. They have a great amount of distrust in others but at the same time possess a positive model of self, they would prefer to invest in their own ego skills. Because of their distrust they cannot be convinced that other people have the ability to deliver emotional support. They try to create high levels of self-esteem by investing disproportionately in their abilities or accomplishments. These adults maintain their positive views of self, based on their personal achievements and competence rather than searching for and feeling acceptance from others. These adults will explicitly reject or minimize the importance of emotional attachment and passively avoid relationships when they feel as though they are becoming too close. They strive for self-reliance and independence. When it comes to the opinions of others about themselves, they are very indifferent and are relatively hesitant to positive feedback from their peers. Dismissive avoidance can also be explained as the result of defensive deactivation of the attachment system to avoid potential rejection, or genuine disregard for interpersonal closeness. \n\nFearful-avoidant adults have mixed feelings about close relationships, both desiring and feeling uncomfortable with emotional closeness. They tend to mistrust their partners and view themselves as unworthy. Like dismissive-avoidant adults, fearful-avoidant adults tend to seek less intimacy, suppressing their feelings.\n\nSexually, securely attached individuals are less likely to be involved in one-night stands or sexual activity outside of the primary relationship, and more likely to report mutual initiation and enjoyment of sex. \n\nDismissive-avoidant individuals tend to report activities reflecting low psychological intimacy (one-night sex, extra-dyadic sex, sex without love), as well as less enjoyment of physical contact. Research has demonstrated that for both sexes, insecure-ambivalent attachment was related to enjoyment of holding and caressing, but not of more clearly sexual behaviors. \n\nRelationally, insecure individuals tend to be partnered with insecure individuals, and secure individuals with secure individuals. Insecure relationships tend to be enduring but less emotionally satisfying compared to the relationship(s) of two securely attached individuals. \n\nAttachment styles are activated from the first date onwards and impact relationship dynamics and how a relationship ends. Secure attachment has been shown to allow for better conflict resolution in a relationship and for one's ability to exit an unsatisfying relationship compared to other attachment types. Secure individuals authentic high self-esteem and positive view of others allows for this as they are confident that they will find another relationship. Secure attachment has also shown to allow for the successful processing of relational losses (e.g. death, rejection, infidelity, abandonment etc.) Attachment has also been show to impact caregiving behavior in relationships, too (Shaver & Cassidy, 2018)\nTwo main aspects of adult attachment have been studied. The organization and stability of the mental working models that underlie the attachment styles is explored by social psychologists interested in romantic attachment. Developmental psychologists interested in the individual's state of mind with respect to attachment generally explore how attachment functions in relationship dynamics and impacts relationship outcomes. The organization of mental working models is more stable while the individual's state of mind with respect to attachment fluctuates more. Some authors have suggested that adults do not hold a single set of working models. Instead, on one level they have a set of rules and assumptions about attachment relationships in general. On another level they hold information about specific relationships or relationship events. Information at different levels need not be consistent. Individuals can therefore hold different internal working models for different relationships.\n\nThere are a number of different measures of adult attachment, the most common being self-report questionnaires and coded interviews based on the Adult Attachment Interview. The various measures were developed primarily as research tools, for different purposes and addressing different domains, for example romantic relationships, platonic relationships, parental relationships or peer relationships. Some classify an adult's state of mind with respect to attachment and attachment patterns by reference to childhood experiences, while others assess relationship behaviours and security regarding parents and peers.\n\nThe early thinking of the object relations school of psychoanalysis, particularly Melanie Klein, influenced Bowlby. However, he profoundly disagreed with the prevalent psychoanalytic belief that infants' responses relate to their internal fantasy life rather than real-life events. As Bowlby formulated his concepts, he was influenced by case studies on disturbed and delinquent children, such as those of William Goldfarb published in 1943 and 1945. Bowlby's contemporary René Spitz observed separated children's grief, proposing that \"psychotoxic\" results were brought about by inappropriate experiences of early care. A strong influence was the work of social worker and psychoanalyst James Robertson who filmed the effects of separation on children in hospital. He and Bowlby collaborated in making the 1952 documentary film \"A Two-Year Old Goes to the Hospital\" which was instrumental in a campaign to alter hospital restrictions on visits by parents.\n\nIn his 1951 monograph for the World Health Organization, \"Maternal Care and Mental Health\", Bowlby put forward the hypothesis that \"the infant and young child should experience a warm, intimate, and continuous relationship with his mother in which both find satisfaction and enjoyment\", the lack of which may have significant and irreversible mental health consequences. This was also published as \"Child Care and the Growth of Love\" for public consumption. The central proposition was influential but highly controversial. At the time there was limited empirical data and no comprehensive theory to account for such a conclusion. Nevertheless, Bowlby's theory sparked considerable interest in the nature of early relationships, giving a strong impetus to, (in the words of Mary Ainsworth), a \"great body of research\" in an extremely difficult, complex area. Bowlby's work (and Robertson's films) caused a virtual revolution in hospital visiting by parents, hospital provision for children's play, educational and social needs and the use of residential nurseries. Over time, orphanages were abandoned in favour of foster care or family-style homes in most developed countries.\nFollowing the publication of \"Maternal Care and Mental Health\", Bowlby sought new understanding from the fields of evolutionary biology, ethology, developmental psychology, cognitive science and control systems theory. He formulated the innovative proposition that mechanisms underlying an infant's emotional tie to the caregiver(s) emerged as a result of evolutionary pressure. He set out to develop a theory of motivation and behaviour control built on science rather than Freud's psychic energy model. Bowlby argued that with attachment theory he had made good the \"deficiencies of the data and the lack of theory to link alleged cause and effect\" of \"Maternal Care and Mental Health\".\n\nBowlby's attention was first drawn to ethology when he read Konrad Lorenz's 1952 publication in draft form (although Lorenz had published earlier work). Other important influences were ethologists Nikolaas Tinbergen and Robert Hinde. Bowlby subsequently collaborated with Hinde. In 1953 Bowlby stated \"the time is ripe for a unification of psychoanalytic concepts with those of ethology, and to pursue the rich vein of research which this union suggests.\" Konrad Lorenz had examined the phenomenon of \"imprinting\", a behaviour characteristic of some birds and mammals which involves rapid learning of recognition by the young, of a conspecific or comparable object. After recognition comes a tendency to follow.\nCertain types of learning are possible, respective to each applicable type of learning, only within a limited age range known as a critical period. Bowlby's concepts included the idea that attachment involved learning from experience during a limited age period, influenced by adult behaviour. He did not apply the imprinting concept in its entirety to human attachment. However, he considered that attachment behaviour was best explained as instinctive, combined with the effect of experience, stressing the readiness the child brings to social interactions. Over time it became apparent there were more differences than similarities between attachment theory and imprinting so the analogy was dropped. Ethologists expressed concern about the adequacy of some research on which attachment theory was based, particularly the generalization to humans from animal studies. Schur, discussing Bowlby's use of ethological concepts (pre-1960) commented that concepts used in attachment theory had not kept up with changes in ethology itself. Ethologists and others writing in the 1960s and 1970s questioned and expanded the types of behaviour used as indications of attachment. Observational studies of young children in natural settings provided other behaviours that might indicate attachment; for example, staying within a predictable distance of the mother without effort on her part and picking up small objects, bringing them to the mother but not to others. Although ethologists tended to be in agreement with Bowlby, they pressed for more data, objecting to psychologists writing as if there were an \"entity which is 'attachment', existing over and above the observable measures.\" Robert Hinde considered \"attachment behaviour system\" to be an appropriate term which did not offer the same problems \"because it refers to postulated control systems that determine the relations between different kinds of behaviour.\"\n\nPsychoanalytic concepts influenced Bowlby's view of attachment, in particular, the observations by Anna Freud and Dorothy Burlingham of young children separated from familiar caregivers during World War II. However, Bowlby rejected psychoanalytical explanations for early infant bonds including \"drive theory\" in which the motivation for attachment derives from gratification of hunger and libidinal drives. He called this the \"cupboard-love\" theory of relationships. In his view it failed to see attachment as a psychological bond in its own right rather than an instinct derived from feeding or sexuality. Based on ideas of primary attachment and Neo-Darwinism, Bowlby identified what he saw as fundamental flaws in psychoanalysis: the overemphasis of internal dangers rather than external threat, and the view of the development of personality via linear \"phases\" with \"regression\" to fixed points accounting for psychological distress. Bowlby instead posited that several lines of development were possible, the outcome of which depended on the interaction between the organism and the environment. In attachment this would mean that although a developing child has a propensity to form attachments, the nature of those attachments depends on the environment to which the child is exposed.\n\nFrom early in the development of attachment theory there was criticism of the theory's lack of congruence with various branches of psychoanalysis. Bowlby's decisions left him open to criticism from well-established thinkers working on similar problems.\n\nThe philosopher Kenneth Craik had noted the ability of thought to predict events. He stressed the survival value of natural selection for this ability. A key component of attachment theory is the attachment behavior system. where certain behaviors have a predictable outcome (i.e. proximity) and serve as self-preservation method (i.e. protection). All taking place outside of an individuals awareness, This internal working model allows a person to try out alternatives mentally, using knowledge of the past while responding to the present and future. Bowlby applied Craik's ideas to attachment, when other psychologists were applying these concepts to adult perception and cognition.\n\nInfants absorb all sorts of complex social-emotional information from the social interactions that they observe. They notice the helpful and hindering behaviors of one person to another. From these observations they develop expectations of how two characters should behave, known as a \"secure base script.\" These scripts provide as a template of how attachment related events should unfold and they are the building blocks of ones internal working models. infant's internal working model is developed in response to the infant's experience based internal working models of self, and environment, with emphasis on the caregiving environment and the outcomes of his or her proximity-seeking behaviors. Theoretically, secure child and adult script, would allow for an attachment situation where one person successfully utilizes another as a secure base from which to explore and as a safe haven in times of distress. In contrast, insecure individuals would create attachment situations with more complications. For example, If the caregiver is accepting of these proximity-seeking behaviors and grants access, the infant develops a secure organization; if the caregiver consistently denies the infant access, an avoidant organization develops; and if the caregiver inconsistently grants access, an ambivalent organization develops. In retrospect, internal working models are constant with and reflect the primary relationship with our caregivers. Childhood attachment has a direct impact on our adult relationships.\n\nA parent's internal working model that is operative in the attachment relationship with her infant can be accessed by examining the parent's mental representations. Recent research has demonstrated that the quality of maternal attributions as markers of maternal mental representations can be associated with particular forms of maternal psychopathology and can be altered in a relative short time-period by targeted psychotherapeutic intervention.\n\nIn the 1970s, problems with viewing attachment as a trait (stable characteristic of an individual) rather than as a type of behaviour with organising functions and outcomes, led some authors to the conclusion that attachment behaviours were best understood in terms of their functions in the child's life. This way of thinking saw the secure base concept as central to attachment theory's logic, coherence, and status as an organizational construct. Following this argument, the assumption that attachment is expressed identically in all humans cross-culturally was examined. The research showed that though there were cultural differences, the three basic patterns, secure, avoidant and ambivalent, can be found in every culture in which studies have been undertaken, even where communal sleeping arrangements are the norm.Selection of the secure pattern is found in the majority of children across cultures studied. This follows logically from the fact that attachment theory provides for infants to adapt to changes in the environment, selecting optimal behavioural strategies. How attachment is expressed shows cultural variations which need to be ascertained before studies can be undertaken; for example Gusii infants are greeted with a handshake rather than a hug. Securely attached Gusii infants anticipate and seek this contact. There are also differences in the distribution of insecure patterns based on cultural differences in child-rearing practices. The scholar Michael Rutter in 1974 studied the importance of distinguishing between the consequences of attachment deprivation upon intellectual retardation in children and lack of development in the emotional growth in children. Rutter's conclusion was that a careful delineation of maternal attributes needed to be identified and differentiated for progress in the field to continue.\n\nThe biggest challenge to the notion of the universality of attachment theory came from studies conducted in Japan where the concept of \"amae\" plays a prominent role in describing family relationships. Arguments revolved around the appropriateness of the use of the Strange Situation procedure where \"amae\" is practiced. Ultimately research tended to confirm the universality hypothesis of attachment theory. Most recently a 2007 study conducted in Sapporo in Japan found attachment distributions consistent with global norms using the six-year Main and Cassidy scoring system for attachment classification.\n\nCritics in the 1990s such as J. R. Harris, Steven Pinker and Jerome Kagan were generally concerned with the concept of infant determinism (nature versus nurture), stressing the effects of later experience on personality. Building on the work on temperament of Stella Chess, Kagan rejected almost every assumption on which attachment theory's cause was based. Kagan argued that heredity was far more important than the transient developmental effects of early environment. For example, a child with an inherently difficult temperament would not elicit sensitive behavioural responses from a caregiver. The debate spawned considerable research and analysis of data from the growing number of longitudinal studies. Subsequent research has not borne out Kagan's argument, possibly suggesting that it is the caregiver's behaviours that form the child's attachment style, although how this style is expressed may differ with the child's temperament. Harris and Pinker put forward the notion that the influence of parents had been much exaggerated, arguing that socialization took place primarily in peer groups. H. Rudolph Schaffer concluded that parents and peers had different functions, fulfilling distinctive roles in children's development. Psychoanalyst/psychologists Peter Fonagy and Mary Target have attempted to bring attachment theory and psychoanalysis into a closer relationship through cognitive science as mentalization. Mentalization, or theory of mind, is the capacity of human beings to guess with some accuracy what thoughts, emotions and intentions lie behind behaviours as subtle as facial expression. It has been speculated that this connection between theory of mind and the internal working model may open new areas of study, leading to alterations in attachment theory. Since the late 1980s, there has been a developing rapprochement between attachment theory and psychoanalysis, based on common ground as elaborated by attachment theorists and researchers, and a change in what psychoanalysts consider to be central to psychoanalysis. Object relations models which emphasise the autonomous need for a relationship have become dominant and are linked to a growing recognition within psychoanalysis of the importance of infant development in the context of relationships and internalized representations. Psychoanalysis has recognized the formative nature of a child's early environment including the issue of childhood trauma. A psychoanalytically based exploration of the attachment system and an accompanying clinical approach has emerged together with a recognition of the need for measurement of outcomes of interventions. \nOne focus of attachment research has been the difficulties of children whose attachment history was poor, including those with extensive non-parental child care experiences. Concern with the effects of child care was intense during the so-called \"day care wars\" of the late-20th century, during which some authors stressed the deleterious effects of day care. As a result of this controversy, training of child care professionals has come to stress attachment issues, including the need for relationship-building by the assignment of a child to a specific care-giver. Although only high-quality child care settings are likely to provide this, more infants in child care receive attachment-friendly care than in the past. A natural experiment permitted extensive study of attachment issues as researchers followed thousands of Romanian orphans adopted into Western families after the end of the Nicolae Ceauşescu regime. The English and Romanian Adoptees Study Team, led by Michael Rutter, followed some of the children into their teens, attempting to unravel the effects of poor attachment, adoption, new relationships, physical problems and medical issues associated with their early lives. Studies of these adoptees, whose initial conditions were shocking, yielded reason for optimism as many of the children developed quite well. Researchers noted that separation from familiar people is only one of many factors that help to determine the quality of development. Although higher rates of atypical insecure attachment patterns were found compared to native-born or early-adopted samples, 70% of later-adopted children exhibited no marked or severe attachment disorder behaviours.\n\nAuthors considering attachment in non-Western cultures have noted the connection of attachment theory with Western family and child care patterns characteristic of Bowlby's time. As children's experience of care changes, so may attachment-related experiences. For example, changes in attitudes toward female sexuality have greatly increased the numbers of children living with their never-married mothers or being cared for outside the home while the mothers work. This social change has made it more difficult for childless people to adopt infants in their own countries. There has been an increase in the number of older-child adoptions and adoptions from third-world sources in first-world countries. Adoptions and births to same-sex couples have increased in number and gained legal protection, compared to their status in Bowlby's time. Issues have been raised to the effect that the dyadic model characteristic of attachment theory cannot address the complexity of real-life social experiences, as infants often have multiple relationships within the family and in child care settings. It is suggested these multiple relationships influence one another reciprocally, at least within a family.\n\nPrinciples of attachment theory have been used to explain adult social behaviours, including mating, social dominance and hierarchical power structures, in-group identification, group coalitions, and negotiation of reciprocity and justice. Those explanations have been used to design parental care training, and have been particularly successful in the design of child abuse prevention programmes.\n\nWhile a wide variety of studies have upheld the basic tenets of attachment theory, research has been inconclusive as to whether self-reported early attachment and later depression are demonstrably related.\n\nIn addition to longitudinal studies, there has been psychophysiological research on the biology of attachment. Research has begun to include neural development, behaviour genetics and temperament concepts. Generally, temperament and attachment constitute separate developmental domains, but aspects of both contribute to a range of interpersonal and intrapersonal developmental outcomes. Some types of temperament may make some individuals susceptible to the stress of unpredictable or hostile relationships with caregivers in the early years. In the absence of available and responsive caregivers it appears that some children are particularly vulnerable to developing attachment disorders.\n\nRecent improvements involving methods of research, have enabled researchers to further investigate the neural correlates of attachment in humans. These advances include identifying key brain structures, neural circuits, neurotransmitter systems, and neuropeptides are all involved in attachment system functioning and can tell us more about a certain individual, even predict their behavior. There is initial evidence that caregiving and attachment involve both unique and overlapping brain regions Another issue is the role of inherited genetic factors in shaping attachments: for example one type of polymorphism of the gene coding for the D dopamine receptor has been linked to anxious attachment and another in the gene for the 5-HT serotonin receptor with avoidant attachment. studies show that attachment in adulthood is simultaneously related to biomarkers of immunity. For example, individuals with an avoidance attachment attachment style produce higher levels of the pro inflammatory cytokine interleukin-6 (IL-6) when reacting to an interpersonal stressor While individuals representing an anxious attachment style you tend to see elevated cortisol production and lower numbers of T cells. .Although children vary genetically and each individual requires different attachment relationships, there is consistent evidence that maternal warmth during infancy and childhood creates a safe haven for individuals resulting in superior immune system funcitoning. One theoretical basis for this is that it makes biological sense for children to vary in their susceptibility to rearing influence.\n\nAs a theory of socioemotional development, attachment theory has implications and practical applications in social policy, decisions about the care and welfare of children and mental health.\n\nSocial policies concerning the care of children were the driving force in Bowlby's development of attachment theory. The difficulty lies in applying attachment concepts to policy and practice. In 2008 C.H. Zeanah and colleagues stated, \"Supporting early child-parent relationships is an increasingly prominent goal of mental health practitioners, community-based service providers and policy makers ... Attachment theory and research have generated important findings concerning early child development and spurred the creation of programs to support early child-parent relationships.\" Seeing that early child parent relationships is crucial for child development. You would assume that individuals would be educated on child development and the importance of the early parent-child relationship. However, our current education system is more concerned with sex education rather than healthy relationship tactics and skills needed to parent in a sensitive, responsive manner. If Researchers and educators could work together and develop future-parent curriculum for the high school and university levels, It would benefit society as a whole. With the dynamic nature of social and economic environments, many families struggle balancing work and family responsibilities. Finding quality childcare while at work or school is another issue for many families.NIHD recent study convey that top notch day care contributes to secure attachment relationships in children. people have commented on this matter stating that “legislative initiatives reflecting higher standards for credentialing and licensing childcare workers, requiring education in child development and attachment theory, and at least a two-year associate's degree course as well as salary increases and increased stature for childcare positions” Corporations should implement more flexible work arrangements that recognize child care as essential for all its employees. This includes re-examination of parental leave policies. Too many parents are forced to return to work too soon post childbirth because of company policy or financial necessity. No matter the reason this inhibits early parent child bonding. In addition to this, there should be increased attention to the training and screening of childcare workers. In his article reviewing Attachment Theory, Sweeney suggested, among several policy implications, “legislative initiatives reflecting higher standards for credentialing and licensing childcare workers, requiring education in child development and attachment theory, and at least a two-year associate's degree course as well as salary increases and increased stature for childcare positions” \n\nHistorically, attachment theory had significant policy implications for hospitalized or institutionalized children, and those in poor quality daycare. Controversy remains over whether non-maternal care, particularly in group settings, has deleterious effects on social development. It is plain from research that poor quality care carries risks but that those who experience good quality alternative care cope well although it is difficult to provide good quality, individualized care in group settings.\n\nAttachment theory has implications in residence and contact disputes, and applications by foster parents to adopt foster children. In the past, particularly in North America, the main theoretical framework was psychoanalysis. Increasingly attachment theory has replaced it, thus focusing on the quality and continuity of caregiver relationships rather than economic well-being or automatic precedence of any one party, such as the biological mother. Rutter noted that in the UK, since 1980, family courts have shifted considerably to recognize the complications of attachment relationships. Children tend to have attachment relationships with both parents and often grandparents or other relatives. Judgements need to take this into account along with the impact of step-families. Attachment theory has been crucial in highlighting the importance of social relationships in dynamic rather than fixed terms.\n\nAttachment theory can also inform decisions made in social work, especially in humanistic social work (Petru Stefaroi), and court processes about foster care or other placements. Considering the child's attachment needs can help determine the level of risk posed by placement options. Within adoption, the shift from \"closed\" to \"open\" adoptions and the importance of the search for biological parents would be expected on the basis of attachment theory. Many researchers in the field were strongly influenced by it.\n\nAlthough attachment theory has become a major scientific theory of socioemotional development with one of the widest research lines in modern psychology, it has, until recently, been less used in clinical practice.\nThe attachment theory focused on the attention of the child when the mother is there and the responses that the child shows when the mother leaves, which indicated the attachment and bonding of the mother and the child. The attention therapy is the done while the child is being restrained by the therapists and the responses displayed were noted. The tests were done to show the responses of the child.\n\nThis may be partly due to lack of attention paid to clinical application by Bowlby himself and partly due to broader meanings of the word 'attachment' used amongst practitioners. It may also be partly due to the mistaken association of attachment theory with the pseudoscientific interventions misleadingly known as \"attachment therapy\".\n\nIn 1988, Bowlby published a series of lectures indicating how attachment theory and research could be used in understanding and treating child and family disorders. His focus for bringing about change was the parents' internal working models, parenting behaviours and the parents' relationship with the therapeutic intervenor. Ongoing research has led to a number of individual treatments and prevention and intervention programmes. In regards to personal development, children from all the age groups were tested to show the effectiveness of the theory that is being theorized by Bowlby. They range from individual therapy to public health programmes to interventions designed for foster caregivers. For infants and younger children, the focus is on increasing the responsiveness and sensitivity of the caregiver, or if that is not possible, placing the child with a different caregiver. An assessment of the attachment status or caregiving responses of the caregiver is invariably included, as attachment is a two-way process involving attachment behaviour and caregiver response. Some programmes are aimed at foster carers because the attachment behaviours of infants or children with attachment difficulties often do not elicit appropriate caregiver responses. Modern prevention and intervention programmes have proven successful.\n\nOne atypical attachment pattern is considered to be an actual disorder, known as \"reactive attachment disorder\" or RAD, which is a recognized psychiatric diagnosis (ICD-10 F94.1/2 and DSM-IV-TR 313.89). Against common misconception, this is not the same as 'disorganized attachment'. The essential feature of reactive attachment disorder is markedly disturbed and developmentally inappropriate social relatedness in most contexts that begins before age five years, associated with gross pathological care. There are two subtypes, one reflecting a disinhibited attachment pattern, the other an inhibited pattern. RAD is not a description of insecure attachment styles, however problematic those styles may be; instead, it denotes a lack of age-appropriate attachment behaviours that may appear to resemble a clinical disorder. Although the term \"reactive attachment disorder\" is now popularly applied to perceived behavioural difficulties that fall outside the DSM or ICD criteria, particularly on the Web and in connection with the pseudo-scientific attachment therapy, \"true\" RAD is thought to be rare.\n\n\"Attachment disorder\" is an ambiguous term, which may be used to refer to reactive attachment disorder or to the more problematical insecure attachment styles (although none of these are clinical disorders). It may also be used to refer to proposed new classification systems put forward by theorists in the field, and is used within attachment therapy as a form of unvalidated diagnosis. One of the proposed new classifications, \"secure base distortion\" has been found to be associated with caregiver traumatization.\n\nAs attachment theory offers a broad, far-reaching view of human functioning, it can enrich a therapist's understanding of patients and the therapeutic relationship rather than dictate a particular form of treatment. Some forms of psychoanalysis-based therapy for adults—within relational psychoanalysis and other approaches—also incorporate attachment theory and patterns.\n\nAttachment theory and research laid the foundation\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32058693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32058693", "title": "Babysitting Mama", "text": "Babysitting Mama\n\nBabysitting Mama, known in Japan as is a babysitting simulation-styled minigame compilation video game for the Wii console. It is the third spin-off from the \"Cooking Mama\" series; the first two were \"Gardening Mama\" and \"Crafting Mama\". It includes a stuffed toy human baby to play with and the player slips its Wii Remote inside. It includes 50 different baby mini games and activities, like playing, washing, etc.\n\nThe player must complete activities based in the baby book of the chosen baby. All the names of the babies follows:\n\nAll babies have a baby book with 6 pages to unlock. There are 36 pages throughout the game. There are other ways to play. If you finish the whole game, you can look at the photos of the babies with what they have done. If you don't want to play by pages then you can choose the mini games you want to play, but can only be unlocked by finishing the baby books. The player can choose their choice of baby. All activities must be unlocked throughout the game.\n\nEach activities you do after finishing you receive a medal for how well you did: Gold is awarded for finishing the game without messing up or before the time ends. Silver is awarded after those who fail to finish before time runs out but did most or messed up a bit. Bronze is awarded to those who failed the whole game, barely did anything or messed up too much. At the end is the final results, if you got all gold medals, you may get a 100-point score with another gold medal. If you made some silver/most gold you get a silver medal. If you get bronze with silvers a bit of gold. you end up with bronze bad score. If you get so much bronze you may not get a medal at all.\n\nAs Mama always says, \"Never shake the baby\". If doing so, a message appears on the screen saying, \"No no no, please don't shake the baby\". This won't affect medals but will freeze the game. All babies are unlocked after completing a baby book or finishing at least 4 pages. All mini-games are unlocked in the main game. Also, all activities in the mini-games don't require the baby but the nunchuk mainly. When caring for the baby, either by putting to sleep to make them happy or stop them from crying, there may be an interruption where a task must be done in a time limit. It doesn't affect medals but then it returns to the baby.\n\nTo play one part of a baby book page but not all, you can choose practice, it won't keep score but gives you a chance to practice a baby activity.\n\nIn Japan, \"Famitsu\" gave the game a score of three eights and a seven, for a total of 31 out of 40. Elsewhere, though, the game got an \"unfavorable\" review from IGN according to video game review aggregator Metacritic.\n\n"}
{"id": "878527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=878527", "title": "Bug (Starship Troopers)", "text": "Bug (Starship Troopers)\n\nThe Bugs are an extraterrestrial race in the novel \"Starship Troopers\" by Robert A. Heinlein, its film adaptation (and its and sequels, an , a Japanese OVA and loose spin-off ), sometimes also referred to as the Arachnids, although the aliens are not related to Earth arachnids.\n\nThe Bugs in the film differ considerably from those in the novel, which calls the Bugs \"Pseudo-Arachnids\". The Bugs in the book are an industrial society that builds starships; the film Bugs have no technology, only specialized castes including \"plasma Bugs\" that can fire burning fireballs into orbit. Meanwhile, Mongoose Publishing's \"\" refers to them as the Arachnid Empire or the Bug Empire. In the third film in the franchise, the bugs are referred to as \"Archie\", similar to nicknames given to Germans (\"Jerry\") and the Viet Cong (\"Charlie\") in their respective wars. The novel's Bugs are highly susceptible to radiation and chemical attacks, and the Mobile Infantry frequently seals their escape holes.\n\nIn the films, the Arachnid Quarantine Zone consists of many star systems colonized by the Arachnids. At some point, \"plasma bugs\" developed the ability to fire spores into orbit, and so colonize other planets.\n\nIn the first film, Klendathu, Tango Urilla, and Planet P are the only worlds explicitly shown to be colonized by Arachnids, although an unspecified number of planets are under their control. It is also shown that they slaughtered a colony of \"Mormon extremists\" on a planet called Dantana. In the TV show, multiple celestial bodies, including Pluto and fictional planets, are inhabited by the Bugs.\n\n"}
{"id": "34444352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34444352", "title": "Casualties of the Bahraini uprising of 2011 and its aftermath", "text": "Casualties of the Bahraini uprising of 2011 and its aftermath\n\nAs of 15 March 2013, the Bahraini uprising of 2011 and its aftermath resulted in 122 deaths. The number of injuries is hard to determine due to government clamp-down on hospitals and medical personnel. The last accurate estimate for injuries is back to 16 March 2011 and sits at about 2708. The Bahrain Independent Commission of Inquiry concluded that many detainees were subjected to torture and other forms of physical and psychological abuse while in custody, five of whom returned dead bodies. The BICI report finds the government responsible for 20 deaths (November 2011). Opposition activists say that the current number is 88 including 43 who allegedly died as a result of excessive use of tear gas.\n\nThe total number of injured since the start of the uprising is not known, due to protesters fear of getting arrested in hospital when presenting with protest related injuries. As of 16 March 2011, the total number of 2708 at least. Another 200 injuries were treated by Médecins Sans Frontières outside hospitals, for a total of 2908. A medic who asked to remain anonymous said he secretly treats about 50 injured protesters a week. Among the injured is Nabeel Rajab, a leading human rights activist.\nMinister of Interior Rashid bin Abdullah Al Khalifa claimed that 395 police officers were injured, four of them allegedly \"abducted and tortured\".\n\nThe Bahrain Independent Commission of Inquiry found that there were 35 deaths between 14 February and 15 April 2011 linked to the uprising. The Commission found the government responsible for 20 of these deaths, protesters responsible for 3, and mobs responsible for 2. The Commission could not attribute the remaining 10 deaths to a perpetrator. Additionally, the Commission found that there were another 11 deaths potentially linked to the uprising between 16 April and 6 October 2011. Between 7 October 2011 and 18 August 2012, the Bahrain Centre for Human Rights (BCHR) reported 35 deaths linked to the uprising, for a total of 81 deaths. On 23 April, Al Jazeera reported that more than 80 people had died since the start of the uprising. The total number reported, counting all related incidents, even those not mentioned in the BICI report and BCHR is 102 deaths as of 3 November 2012.\n\nBahrain's \"Gulf Daily News\" newspaper reported that anti-government protesters attacked and killed an elderly taxi driver on 13 March. Other local newspapers reported that he was beaten to death by \"terrorists\". Bahrain's independent \"Al Wasat\" newspaper cited witnesses that said the taxi driver died in a traffic accident. The Bahrain Independent Commission of Inquiry did not report any such death connected to the unrest. Additionally, a report by the \"Associated Press\", quoting an unnamed security official in Saudi Arabia, stated that a Saudi soldier was shot dead by protesters in Bahrain on 15 March. Bahrain state television denied this report, and the Commission did not report any such death connected to the unrest.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59933", "title": "Charmander", "text": "Charmander\n\nCharmander (), known as in Japan, is a Pokémon species in Nintendo and Game Freak's \"Pokémon\" franchise. Created by Atsuko Nishida, Charmander first appeared in the video games \"Pokémon Red\" and \"Blue\" and subsequent sequels, later appearing in various merchandise, spinoff titles and animated and printed adaptations of the franchise. The end of a Charmander's tail is alight with a flame, and the flame's size reflects both the physical health and the emotions of the individual.\n\nCharmander was created as one of the first Pokémon and is a starter Pokémon the player can choose from at the beginning of \"Pokémon Red\" and \"Blue\", and their remakes, \"Pokémon FireRed\" and \"LeafGreen\". In the anime, Ash acquires a Charmander early in the series, and it became one of his most used Pokémon. In the \"Pokémon Adventures\" manga, Blue receives a Charmander from his grandfather Professor Oak. Since it appeared in the \"Pokémon\" series, Charmander has received generally positive reception. Charmander first appeared in episode 11 of (\"Charmander – The Stray Pokémon\" (The Stray Pokémon – Hitokage)). In the episode, Charmander is left by its owner, Damian and is rescued by Ash and Brock. When Damian sees how powerful Charmander is, he calls Charmander back. However, because of Damian's abuse, Charmander chooses to follow the group that saved its life, and becomes Ash's Pokémon. In the series, the narrator stated that if a Charmander's tail flame goes out, it dies. Charmander is used by Ash throughout his adventures and is seen in special episodes in the future.\n\nCharmander evolves into Charmeleon who then evolves into Charizard, which was originally its last form. Since the release of \"Pokémon X\" and \"Y\", Charizard can mega evolve into 2 different types of Mega Charizard, which are Mega Charizard X or Mega Charizard Y, for the duration of a battle. This gives it upgraded stats and a damage bonus, but is temporary.\n\nCharmander was designed as a starter Pokémon for the first generation of \"Pocket Monsters\" games \"Red\" and \"Green\" (which were localized outside Japan as \"Pokémon Red\" and \"Blue\") by Atsuko Nishida, who based its design on Charizard in such a way that it was difficult to tell it would have evolved into the latter Pokémon. Originally called \"Hitokage\" in Japanese, Nintendo decided to give the various Pokémon species \"clever and descriptive names\" related to their appearance or features when translating the game for western audiences as a means to make the characters more relatable to American children. As a result, the species was renamed \"Charmander\", a combination of \"char\", meaning burnt, and \"salamander\".\n\nCharmander is known as the Lizard Pokémon. Charmander are small, bipedal lizard-like Pokémon native to Kanto. They have blue eyes, red-orange skin, three-clawed toes, yellow bellies, and yellow soles under their feet. The end of a Charmander's tail is alight with a flame, and the flame's size reflects both the physical health and the emotions of the individual. When it rains, steam is said to spout from the tip of its tail. If the flame were to ever go out, the Charmander would die. When Charmander receives enough experience from battles, it evolves into Charmeleon (at level 16 in the video games), and later Charizard. With the help of the Mega Stone it could further evolve into Mega Charizard X/Mega Charizard Y. The idea to feature Charmander and the other \"Red\" and \"Blue\" starters in a significant role in \"Pokémon X\" and \"Y\" came about a year and a half into the development of the games. The Mega Evolutions for the three Pokémon's final forms were created, and the designers decided that they should give players an opportunity to find one of these Pokémon in order to see their Mega Evolved form.\n\nCharmander is a starter Pokémon the player can choose from at the beginning of \"Pokémon Red\" and \"Blue\", and their remakes, \"Pokémon FireRed\" and \"LeafGreen\". Charmander and the other starters from \"Red\" and \"Blue\" are replaced by Pikachu in \"Pokémon Yellow\", the only starter available in it. Instead, they are each obtained from certain NPCs. In \"Pokémon HeartGold\" and \"SoulSilver\", as a reward from Professor Oak after defeating the final boss, Red, the player can choose from Bulbasaur, Charmander, and Squirtle. In \"Pokémon X\" and \"Y\", players can also choose between Bulbasaur, Charmander, and Squirtle near the start of the game shortly after having chosen the games' new starter Pokémon. Outside of the main series, Charmander has appeared in \"Hey You, Pikachu!\", \"Pokémon Snap\", \"Pokémon Puzzle League\", the \"Pokémon Mystery Dungeon\" games, the \"Pokémon Ranger\" games, and \"\". A Pokémon stage in Super Smash Bros. called \"Saffron City\" features an area where various Pokémon pop out to attack players; one such Pokémon is a Charmander that sometimes uses Flamethrower.\n\nIn anime, Ash acquires a Charmander early in the series. Ash's Charmander originally belonged to a trainer named Damian, who believed it was weak and cruelly abandoned it, telling it to stay in one spot until he \"returned.\" The Pokémon was very loyal to its trainer and risked its life sitting in the rain, waiting for a trainer who'd never come back to it. Ash, Brock, and Misty had to rush it to a Pokémon Center to keep it alive. Upon seeing Damian's true colors, Charmander joined Ash. It was immediately one of Ash's most used Pokémon, defeating such opponents as Koga's Golbat, Erika's Weepinbell, and helped capture Ash's Primeape. Charmander evolved into Charmeleon during a battle against an army of Exeggutor. His personality temporarily changed, disobeying Ash and fighting only when and how he pleased.\n\nIn an anime adaption of , a Charmander and a female Chikorita work alongside a young boy who transformed into a Squirtle in helping fellow Pokémon.\n\nIn \"\" Charmander's behavior was changed for the better. In it, Charmander, when evolved into Charmeleon, doesn't change his personality and leaps into Ash’s arms for a hug. And when he evolves into a Charizard, near the end of the film, he becomes obedient to its master.\n\nIn the Electric Tale of Pikachu manga, the circumstances in which Ash captures a Charmander appear to be different. While Damian appears, he was separated from his Charmander because he was injured, not because he abandoned it. At the end of the chapter, the two reunite. Despite this difference, Ash is still seen owning a Charmander, whose capture is not shown. Later in the manga, Ash's Charmander reappears as a Charizard.\n\nIn the \"Pokémon Adventures\" manga, Blue receives a Charmander from his grandfather Professor Oak. Blue tried using it against Mew but failed and withdrew his Pokémon. It is later shown to have evolved into a Charmeleon. then a Charizard. Later, in the \"Gold, Silver & Crystal\" chapter, Blue decides to trade his Charizard with Red for a Gyarados. Nearing the end of the chapter, the Charizard is returned to him for a big battle. In the Pokémon Pocket Monsters manga series, Isamu Akai's rival Kai Midorikawa, chose Charmander as his starter Pokémon. Kai's Charmander is mischievous and has a rivalry with Isamu Akai's Clefairy.\n\nIn the online phenomenon known as Twitch Plays Pokemon, the stream chose Charmander as Red's starter and named it \"ABBBBBBK(\", or \"Abby\" as it was commonly referred to. Abby was vital in defeating Brock and obtaining the Boulder Badge. Along its journey to Cerulean City, Abby evolved into a Charmeleon in the depths of Mt. Moon, securing it as Red's early-game muscle. Abby continued to prove itself by helping Red obtain the Cascade, Thunder, and Rainbow Badges. Unfortunately, during an unfortunate visit Saffron City's Pokemon Center, Abby was released into the wild and never seen again.\n\nSince it appeared in the \"Pokémon\" series, Charmander has received generally positive reception. It has appeared in several pieces of merchandise, including figures, plush toys, and the \"Pokémon Trading Card Game\". It has been noted as a popular Halloween costume for the year of 1999. Also in 1999, it was speculated by analysts that Pokémon species, in particular Charmander and others, would become sought-after toys.\n\n\"IGN\" readers ranked Charmander at #37 among the best Pokémon ever. \"Game Informer\"s O'Dell Harmon ranked Charmander - along with Bulbasaur and Squirtle - as the \"third best\" Pokémon. He noted that the choice between the three was \"one of the most important decisions to ever be made in \"Pokémon\" history.\" \"GamesTM\" noted that Charmander was the \"worst starting Pokémon\" in \"Red\" and \"Blue\". In the book \"Dragonlore: From the Archives of the Grey School of Wizardry\", author Ash Dekirk described Charmander as a \"fire-breathing dragon\". Author Loredana Lipperini cited Charmander as a \"popular Pokémon\", suggesting that its popularity comes from its fiery tail. Author Mark Jacobson found the transition from Charmander to Charizard to be \"odd\", questioning how a \"baby\" Pokémon can grow into a \"two-hundred-pound monster whose breath can melt boulders.\" \"GamesRadar+\" commented that while Charmander seems \"pitiful\" due to its flame tail, which \"burn more brightly depending on his mood/health\", it grows into the \"cool-looking Charizard\". GamesRadar editor Brett Elston stated that while it \"lacks the nuances\" of later similar starting Pokémon, it has \"cutesy appeal\" to it. \"The Escapist\" editor John Funk described Charmander as \"cute\", using its evolution into Charizard as an example of \"an extreme evolutionary change\" in the series. \"Chicago Tribune\" editor Darryl E. Owens described Charmander as \"adorable\". \"San Antonio-Express News\" editor Susan Yerkes described Charmander as \"disgustingly cute\". \"Teen Ink\" editor Kathryn J. called Charmander her \"favorite Pokémon\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1174295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1174295", "title": "Civil Disobedience (Thoreau)", "text": "Civil Disobedience (Thoreau)\n\nResistance to Civil Government (Civil Disobedience) is an essay by American transcendentalist Henry David Thoreau that was first published in 1849. In it, Thoreau argues that individuals should not permit governments to overrule or atrophy their consciences, and that they have a duty to avoid allowing such acquiescence to enable the government to make them the agents of injustice. Thoreau was motivated in part by his disgust with slavery and the Mexican–American War (1846–1848).\n\nIn 1848, Thoreau gave lectures at the Concord Lyceum entitled \"The Rights and Duties of the Individual in relation to Government\". This formed the basis for his essay, which was first published under the title \"Resistance to Civil Government\" in a 1849 anthology by Elizabeth Peabody called \"Æsthetic Papers\". The latter title distinguished Thoreau's program from that of the \"non-resistants\" (anarcho-pacifists) who were expressing similar views. \"Resistance\" also served as part of Thoreau's metaphor comparing the government to a machine: when the machine was producing injustice, it was the duty of conscientious citizens to be \"a counter friction\" (i.e., a resistance) \"to stop the machine\".\n\nIn 1866, four years after Thoreau's death, the essay was reprinted in a collection of Thoreau's work (\"A Yankee in Canada, with Anti-Slavery and Reform Papers\") under the title \"Civil Disobedience\". Today, the essay also appears under the title \"On the Duty of Civil Disobedience\", perhaps to contrast it with William Paley's \"Of the Duty of Civil Obedience\" to which Thoreau was in part responding. For instance, the 1960 New American Library Signet Classics edition of \"Walden\" included a version with this title. \"On Civil Disobedience\" is another common title.\n\nThe word has several definitions. The one that is intended in this case is \"relating to citizens and their interrelations with one another or with the state\", and so \"civil disobedience\" means \"disobedience to the state\". Sometimes people assume that \"civil\" in this case means \"observing accepted social forms; polite\" which would make \"civil disobedience\" something like \"polite, orderly disobedience\". Although this is an acceptable dictionary definition of the word \"civil\", it is not what is intended here. This misinterpretation is one reason the essay is sometimes considered to be an argument for pacifism or for exclusively nonviolent resistance. For instance, Mahatma Gandhi used this interpretation to suggest an equivalence between Thoreau's civil disobedience and his own satyagraha.\n\nThe slavery crisis inflamed New England in the 1840s and 1850s. The environment became especially tense after the Fugitive Slave Act of 1850. A lifelong abolitionist, Thoreau delivered an impassioned speech which would later become \"Civil Disobedience\" in 1848, just months after leaving Walden Pond. The speech dealt with slavery, but at the same time excoriated American imperialism, particularly the Mexican–American War.\n\nThoreau asserts that because governments are typically more harmful than helpful, they therefore cannot be justified. Democracy is no cure for this, as majorities simply by virtue of being majorities do not also gain the virtues of wisdom and justice. The judgment of an individual's conscience is not necessarily inferior to the decisions of a political body or majority, and so \"[i]t is not desirable to cultivate a respect for the law, so much as for the right. The only obligation which I have a right to assume is to do at any time what I think right... Law never made men a whit more just; and, by means of their respect for it, even the well-disposed are daily made the agents of injustice.\" He adds, \"I cannot for an instant recognize as my government [that] which is the slave's government also.\"\n\nThe government, according to Thoreau, is not just a \"little\" corrupt or unjust in the course of doing its otherwise-important work, but in fact the government is \"primarily\" an agent of corruption and injustice. Because of this, it is \"not too soon for honest men to rebel and revolutionize\".\n\nPolitical philosophers have counseled caution about revolution because the upheaval of revolution typically causes a lot of expense and suffering. Thoreau contends that such a cost/benefit analysis is inappropriate when the government is actively facilitating an injustice as extreme as slavery. Such a fundamental immorality justifies any difficulty or expense to bring it to an end. \"This people must cease to hold slaves, and to make war on Mexico, though it cost them their existence as a people.\"\n\nThoreau tells his audience that they cannot blame this problem solely on pro-slavery Southern politicians, but must put the blame on those in, for instance, Massachusetts, \"who are more interested in commerce and agriculture than they are in humanity, and are not prepared to do justice to the slave and to Mexico, \"cost what it may\"... There are thousands who are in opinion opposed to slavery and to the war, who yet in effect do nothing to put an end to them.\" (See also: Thoreau's \"Slavery in Massachusetts\" which also advances this argument.)\n\nHe exhorts people not to just wait passively for an opportunity to \"vote\" for justice, because voting for justice is as ineffective as \"wishing\" for justice; what you need to do is to actually \"be just\". This is not to say that you have an obligation to devote your life to fighting for justice, but you \"do\" have an obligation not to commit injustice and not to give injustice your practical support.\n\nPaying taxes is one way in which otherwise well-meaning people collaborate in injustice. People who proclaim that the war in Mexico is wrong and that it is wrong to enforce slavery contradict themselves if they fund both things by paying taxes. Thoreau points out that the same people who applaud soldiers for refusing to fight an unjust war are not themselves willing to refuse to fund the government that started the war.\n\nIn a constitutional republic like the United States, people often think that the proper response to an unjust law is to try to use the political process to change the law, but to obey and respect the law until it is changed. But if the law is itself clearly unjust, and the lawmaking process is not designed to quickly obliterate such unjust laws, then Thoreau says the law deserves no respect and it should be broken. In the case of the United States, the Constitution itself enshrines the institution of slavery, and therefore falls under this condemnation. Abolitionists, in Thoreau's opinion, should completely withdraw their support of the government and stop paying taxes, even if this means courting imprisonment.\n\nBecause the government will retaliate, Thoreau says he prefers living simply because he therefore has less to lose. \"I can afford to refuse allegiance to Massachusetts... It costs me less in every sense to incur the penalty of disobedience to the State than it would to obey. I should feel as if I were worth less in that case.\"\n\nHe was briefly imprisoned for refusing to pay the poll tax, but even in jail felt freer than the people outside. He considered it an interesting experience and came out of it with a new perspective on his relationship to the government and its citizens. (He was released the next day when \"someone interfered, and paid that tax\".)\n\nThoreau said he was willing to pay the highway tax, which went to pay for something of benefit to his neighbors, but that he was opposed to taxes that went to support the government itself—even if he could not tell if his particular contribution would eventually be spent on an unjust project or a beneficial one. \"I simply wish to refuse allegiance to the State, to withdraw and stand aloof from it effectually.\"\n\nBecause government is man-made, not an element of nature or an act of God, Thoreau hoped that its makers could be reasoned with. As governments go, he felt, the U.S. government, with all its faults, was not the worst and even had some admirable qualities. But he felt we could and should insist on better. \"The progress from an absolute to a limited monarchy, from a limited monarchy to a democracy, is a progress toward a true respect for the individual... Is a democracy, such as we know it, the last improvement possible in government? Is it not possible to take a step further towards recognizing and organizing the rights of man? There will never be a really free and enlightened State until the State comes to recognize the individual as a higher and independent power, from which all its own power and authority are derived, and treats him accordingly.\"\n\nAn aphorism often erroneously attributed to Thomas Jefferson, \"That government is best which governs least...\", was actually found in Thoreau's \"Civil Disobedience.\" Thoreau was apparently paraphrasing the motto of \"The United States Magazine and Democratic Review\": \"The best government is that which governs least.\" Thoreau expanded it significantly:\n\nIndian independence leader Mohandas Gandhi (a.k.a. Mahatma Gandhi) was impressed by Thoreau's arguments. In 1907, about one year into his first \"satyagraha\" campaign in South Africa, he wrote a translated synopsis of Thoreau's argument for \"Indian Opinion\", credited Thoreau's essay with being \"the chief cause of the abolition of slavery in America\", and wrote that \"Both his example and writings are at present exactly applicable to the Indians in the Transvaal.\" He later concluded:\nAmerican civil rights leader Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. was also influenced by this essay. In his autobiography, he wrote:\nExistentialist Martin Buber wrote, of \"Civil Disobedience\"\n\nAuthor Leo Tolstoy cited \"Civil Disobedience\" as having a strong impact on his nonviolence methodology. Others who are said to have been influenced by \"Civil Disobedience\" include: President John F. Kennedy, Supreme Court Justice William O. Douglas, and various writers such as, Marcel Proust, Ernest Hemingway, Upton Sinclair, Sinclair Lewis, and William Butler Yeats.\n\n Peabody, Elizabeth (ed). Aesthetic Papers. G.P. Putnam (New York, 1849). Available at the Internet Archive\n\n"}
{"id": "242602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=242602", "title": "Digital pet", "text": "Digital pet\n\nA digital pet (also known as a virtual pet, artificial pet, or pet-raising simulation) is a type of artificial human companion. They are usually kept for companionship or enjoyment. People may keep a digital pet in lieu of a real pet. Cyberpet and Tamagotchi were some of the first digital pets. \n\nDigital pets are distinct in that they have no concrete physical form other than the hardware they run on. Interaction with virtual pets may or may not be goal oriented. If it is, then the user must keep it alive as long as possible and often help it to grow into higher forms. Keeping the pet alive and growing often requires 'feeding', grooming and playing with the pet. If the interaction is not goal oriented, the user can explore the character of the pet and enjoy the feeling of building a relationship with it.\n\nDigital pets can be \"simulations of real animals, as in the Petz series\" or \"fantasy ones like the Tamagotchi or Digimon series'\". Unlike biological simulations, the pet does not usually reproduce.\n\nVirtual pet sites are usually free to play and accessible to all who sign up. They can be accessed through web browsers and often include a virtual community, such as Neopia in Neopets. In these worlds, a user can play games to earn virtual money which is usually spent on items and food for pets. One large branch of virtual pet games are sim horse games.\n\nSome sites adopt out pets to put on a webpage and use for role-playing in chat rooms. They often require the adoptee to have a page ready for their pet. Sometimes they have a setup for breeding one's pets and then adopting them out.\n\nMost sites use quests in order for users to make points and receive items. Some quests can give stat points to the user's pets for when they are battling. Such sites that use quests for a primary foundation on the site are Neopets and Marapets. These sites, and their clones, have a single non-dynamic image for each pet and its various colors, leading to a lot of similarity in the pets.\n\nThere are also \"simulation sites\" where the webpage attempts to simulate a real-life discipline, such as horse dressage or pedigree dog showing. Often these sites will also have a breeding aspect, including genetics and markings. Other simulation sites focus mostly on the markings. Some have done away with the showing aspect and created a great fantasy or comedic website, based around a nonexistent discipline or creature. An example of this is Woolly Hooves, a simulation game where the player gets his/her very own elemental llama, and goes on to hike, explore and complete less single-objective quests than some sites in a bizarre yet endearing world. A few more websites with a similar genre include Kingdom Of Knuffel, Mweor, Khimeros, Xanje, Aywas, Wajas, Tygras, The Dragon Empire and many more.\n\nThere are many video games that focus on the care, raising, breeding or exhibition of simulated animals. Such games are described as a sub-class of life simulation game. Since the computing power is more powerful than with webpage or gadget based digital pets, these are usually able to achieve a higher level of visual effects and interactivity. Pet-raising simulations often lack a victory condition or challenge, and can be classified as software toys.\n\nThe pet may be capable of learning to do a variety of tasks. \"This quality of rich intelligence distinguishes artificial pets from other kinds of A-life, in which individuals have simple rules but the population as a whole develops emergent properties\". For artificial pets, their behaviors are typically \"preprogrammed and are not truly emergent\".\n\nA screen mate is a downloadable virtual pet that creates a small animation that walks around a computer desktop and over open screens unpredictably. Each pets is a small animation of an animal (such as a sheep or a frog, or in some cases a human or bottle cap) that can be interacted by clicking on or dragging, which lifts the pet as if you were picking it up. Most screen mates are free to download and used for entertainment purposes.\n\nPF Magic released the first widely popular virtual pets in 1995 with \"Dogz\", followed by \"Catz\" in the spring of 1996, eventually becoming a franchise known as \"Petz\". The digital pets were further popularized when Tamagotchi and Digimon were introduced in 1996 and 1997.\n\nDigital pets were a massive fad in Japan, and to a lesser extent in the United States and United Kingdom during the late 1990s. Today, there are also \"Digital Pets\" which have physical robotic bodies, known as Ludobots or Entertainment robots.\n\nThe popularity of virtual pets in the United States, and the constant need for attention the pets required, led to them being banned from schools across the country, a move that hastened the virtual pet's decline from popularity.\n\nA \"Mad\" cover parody on regular issue #362, October 1997 shows a gun being pointed at a virtual pet with Alfred E. Neuman's face and the line \"If you don't buy this magazine, we'll kill this virtual pet!\" Illustrated by Mark Fredrickson. The cover references the January 1973 issue of \"National Lampoon\" which depicted a gun being held to a real dog's head and the line, \"If you don't buy this magazine, we'll kill this dog.\"\n\nSome people suggest that digital pets are preferable for a number of reasons. Having a digital pet in place of a real pet ensures real pets do not have to suffer, and it is arguably training before adopting a real pet. PETA has suggested that robotic animals can help people recognize that they are not up to the commitment of caring for a real animal. Another cogent argument is that the digital pet can successfully substitute a real one for children who cannot care for a real pet, such as those who suffer from allergies.\n\nThere is research concerning the relationship between digital pets and their owners, and their impact on the emotions of people. For example, Furby affects the way people think about their identity, and many children think that Furby is alive in a \"Furby kind of way\" in Sherry Turkle's research.\n\nThere are many common features between different digital pets, some of them are used to give a sense of reality to the user (such as the pet responding to \"touch\"), and some for enhancing playability (such as training).\n\nWith advanced video-gaming technology, most modern digital pets do not show a message box or icon to display the pet's internal variable, health state or emotion like earlier generations (such as Tamagotchi). Instead, users can only understand the pet by interpreting their actions, body language, facial expressions, etc. This helps to make a pet's behavior seem natural, rather than calculated, and fosters a feeling of a relationship between user and digital pet.\n\nTo give a sense of reality to users, most digital pets have certain level of autonomy and unpredictability. The user can interact with the pet and this process of personalizing can make the pet more distinctive. Personalizing increases the feeling of responsibility for the pet to the user. For example, if a Tamagotchi is unattended for long enough, it will \"die\".\n\nTo increase user's personal attachment to the pet, the pet interacts with the user. Interactivity can be classified into two categories: Short-term and long-term.\n\nShort-term interactivity includes direct interaction or action to reaction from the pet. Example: \"touch\" a pet with mouse cursor and the pet will give a direct response to the \"touching\".\n\nLong-term interactivity includes action that affects the pet's growth, behavior or life span. For example, training a pet may have a good effect on the pet's behavior. Long-term interactivity is quite important for a sense of reality as the user would think that he has some lasting influence on the pet.\n\nTwo kinds of interactivity are often combined. Training (long-term interaction) may happen through continuing short-term interaction. Similarly, playing with a pet (short-term interaction) may, if continued over the long term, make the pet more optimistic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40941398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40941398", "title": "EzTaxon Database", "text": "EzTaxon Database\n\nIn bioinformatics, the EzTaxon database is a web-based tool for the identification of prokaryotes based on 16S ribosomal RNA gene sequences. EzTaxon is an open access database that is produced and maintained by ChunLab, Inc.\n\nThe EzTaxon database contains sequences of type strains of prokaryotic species with validly published names. Although EzTaxon is mainly used for the routine identification of prokaryotic isolates, sequences from uncultured taxa were not included. Thus in 2012, EzTaxon was extended to include uncultured prokaryotes and the name of the database was changed to EzTaxon-e.\n\nTaxa names included in EzTaxon-e represent groups of uncultured sequences found in public domain databases. The names included in EzTaxon-e have no standing in formal nomenclature but they were created to help in the comparison of microbial communities and diversity in nature.\n"}
{"id": "301110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=301110", "title": "Fluid replacement", "text": "Fluid replacement\n\nFluid replacement or fluid resuscitation is the medical practice of replenishing bodily fluid lost through sweating, bleeding, fluid shifts or other pathologic processes. Fluids can be replaced with oral rehydration therapy (drinking), intravenous therapy, rectally such as with a Murphy drip, or by \"hypodermoclysis\", the direct injection of fluid into the subcutaneous tissue. Fluids administered by the oral and hypodermic routes are absorbed more slowly than those given intravenously.\n\nOral rehydration therapy (ORT) is a simple treatment for dehydration associated with diarrhea, particularly gastroenteritis/gastroenteropathy, such as that caused by cholera or rotavirus. ORT consists of a solution of salts and sugars which is taken by mouth. For most mild to moderate dehydration in children, the preferable treatment in an emergency department is ORT over intravenous replacement of fluid.\n\nIt is used around the world, but is most important in the developing world, where it saves millions of children a year from death due to diarrhea—the second leading cause of death in children under five.\n\nIn severe dehydration, intravenous fluid replacement is preferred, and may be lifesaving. It is especially useful where there is depletion of fluid both in the intracellular space and the vascular spaces.\n\nFluid replacement is also indicated in fluid depletion due to hemorrhage, extensive burns and excessive sweating (as from a prolonged fever), and prolonged diarrhea (cholera).\n\nDuring surgical procedures, fluid requirement increases by increased evaporation, fluid shifts and/or excessive urine production among other possible causes. Even a small surgery may cause a loss of approx. 4 ml/kg/hour, and a large surgery approximately 8 ml/kg/hour, in addition to the basal fluid requirement.\n\nThe table to the right shows daily requirements for some major fluid components. If these cannot be given enterally, they may need to be given entirely intravenously. If continued long-term (more than approx. 2 days), a more complete regimen of total parenteral nutrition may be required.\n\nThe types of intravenous fluids used in fluid replacement are generally within the class of volume expanders. Physiologic saline solution, or 0.9% sodium chloride solution, is often used because it is isotonic, and therefore will not cause potentially dangerous \"fluid shifts\". Also, if it is anticipated that blood will be given, normal saline is used because it is the only fluid compatible with blood administration.\n\nBlood transfusion is the only approved fluid replacement capable of carrying oxygen; some oxygen-carrying blood substitutes are under development.\n\nLactated Ringer's solution is another isotonic crystalloid solution and it is designed to match most closely blood plasma. If given intravenously, isotonic crystalloid fluids will be distributed to the intravascular and interstitial spaces.\n\nPlasmalyte is another isotonic crystalloid.\n\nBlood products, non-blood products and combinations are used in fluid replacement, including colloid and crystalloid solutions. Colloids are increasingly used but they are more expensive than crystalloids. A systematic review found no evidence that resuscitation with colloids, instead of crystalloids, reduces the risk of death in patients with trauma, burns or following surgery.\n\nMaintenance fluids are used in those who are currently normally hydrated but unable to drink enough to maintain this hydration. In children isotonic fluids are recommended for maintaining hydration.\n\nIt is important to achieve a fluid status that is good enough to avoid low urine production. Low urine output has various limits, but an output of 0.5 mL/kg/h in adults is usually considered adequate and suggests adequate organ perfusion. The parkland formula is not perfect and fluid therapy will need to be titrated to hemodynamic values and urine output.\n\nThe speed of fluid replacement may differ between procedures. The planning of fluid replacement for burn patients is based on the Parkland formula (4mL Lactated Ringers X wt.in kg X % TBSA burned= Amount of fluid ( in ml) to give over 24 hours). The Parkland formula gives the minimum amount to be given in 24 hours. Half of the volume is given over the first eight hours after the time of the burn (not from time of admission to ED) and the other half over the next 16 hours. In dehydration, 2/3 of the deficit may be given in 4 hours, and the rest during approx. 20 hours.\n\nFluid replacement in patients with septic shock can be divided into four stages as shown below:\n\n\n\n\nSepsis accounts for 50% of acute kidney injury patients in (intensive care unit) (ICU). Intravenous crystalloid is recommended as the first line therapy to prevent or to treat acute kidney injury (AKI) when compared to colloids as colloids increases the risk of AKI. 4% human albumin may be used in cirrhotic patients with spontaneous bacterial peritonitis as it can reduce the rate of renal failure and improve survival. However, fluid overload can excerbates acute kidney injury. The use of diuretics does not prevent or treat AKI even with the help of renal replacement therapy. The 2012 KDIGO (Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes) guidelines stated that diuretics should not be used to treat AKI, except for the management of volume overload. In adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), conservative fluid management is associated with better oxygenation and lung function with less prevalence of dialysis in the first 60 days of hospitalization when compared with liberal fluid management.\n\nFluid overload is defined as an increase in body weight of over 10%. Aggressive fluid resuscitation can lead to fluid overload which can lead to damage of multiple organs such as cerebral odema which leads to delirium, pulmonary oedema, and pleural effusion which leads to respiratory distress, myocardial oedema and pericardial effusion which leads to impaired contractility of the heart, gastrointestinal oedema which leads to malabsorption, hepatic congestion which leads to cholestasis, acute kidney injury, and tissue odema leads to poor wound healing. All these effects can cause disability and death, and increase in hospitalisation costs.\n\nFluid overload causes cardiac dilation, which leads to increased ventricular wall stress, mitral insufficiency and leads to cardiac dysfunction. Pulmonary hypertension can lead to tricuspid insufficiency. Excess administration of fluid causes accumulation of extracellular fluid, leading to pulmonary oedema and lack of oxygen delivery to tissues. The use of mechanical ventilation in such case can cause barotrauma, infection, and oxygen toxicity, leading to acute respiratory distress syndrome. Fluid overload also stretches the arterial endothelium, which causes damage to the glycocalyx, leading to capillary leakage and worsens the acute kidney injury.\n\nProctoclysis, an enema, is the administration of fluid into the rectum as a hydration therapy. It is sometimes used for very ill persons with cancer. The Murphy drip is a device by means of which this treatment may be performed.\n\n"}
{"id": "48828122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48828122", "title": "French destroyer Étendard", "text": "French destroyer Étendard\n\nÉtendard was one of 10 s built for the French Navy in the first decade of the 20th century.\n\nDuring World War I, \"Étendard\" was torpedoed and sunk by an Imperial German Navy destroyer in the North Sea off Dunkirk, France, with the loss of all hands on 25 April 1917.\n\n"}
{"id": "34159161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34159161", "title": "Frontiers and Ghettos", "text": "Frontiers and Ghettos\n\nFrontiers and Ghettos: State Violence in Serbia and Israel is a sociological book written by James Ron, Harold E. Stassen Chair in International Affairs at the University of Minnesota. Inspired by his time as a member of the Israel Defense Forces, as a research consultant for Human Rights Watch, and as a research consultant for the International Red Cross, Ron asks: \"what explains why states use different kinds of violence in some cases and not others?\" For Ron, institutional distinctions and international norms are key to explaining diverse repertoires of state violence against similar victims.\n\nIn \"Frontiers and Ghettos\", James Ron argues that states use different methods and degrees of coercion against perceived national enemies as a result of variation in institutional contexts. \nWhen a targeted group is ghettoized, they are likely to become victims of severe, police-style repression but not ethnic cleansing or murder. Contrarily, when a targeted group exists on a frontier, they are more likely to become victims of cleansing and death instead of repression. This is because in ghettos, states have unrivaled control but are also bound by international and domestic legal and moral obligations to its inhabitants. Along frontiers, states have less control as well as fewer and weaker moral obligations. According to Ron, the more that a state controls a given territory, the more it feels a “bureaucratic, moral, and political sense of responsibility” for the fate of those within it. This sense of responsibility leads states to choose less overtly violent modes of repression in ghettos as compared to when states target populations exist on the periphery.\n\nJames Ron examines five cases of ethnic violence and ethnic policing in two States, Serbia and Israel, over similar periods of time. The cases are as follows:\n\n\nRon uses field interviews, newspaper reports and academic publications to illustrate the importance of institutional context for explaining repertoires of state violence. He argues that Serbia engaged in ethnic cleansing in Bosnia because in 1992, Bosnia became a frontier. On the other hand, Israel policed Palestinians in 1988 because Palestine at the time was a ghetto, even though the threat posed by Palestinians during the 1988 uprising was greater. The more states controlled territories and peoples, the less likely their security forces were to ethnically cleanse perceived national enemies.\n\n\"Frontiers and Ghettos\" was favorably received by many sociologists and political scientists as well as human rights organizations working on issues related to state violence. For example, the historian L. Carl Brown, writing for \"Foreign Affairs\" magazine, wrote that the book offered \"a well-documented study of Ron's chosen examples and a sophisticated framework for understanding other such situations.\" Sociologist Anthony Obserschall compliments Ron for his \"engaging and promising\" hypothesis as well as his \"fascinating\" use of detail that make the footnotes as pleasurable to read as the main text.\" However, Obserschall also critiques Ron on several grounds. For example, he argues that (1) the ethnic policing versus cleansing distinction is too crude for legal and normative evaluations of state violence, and (2) the frontier concept is applied inconsistently for the comparisons Ron wishes to make. In the former critique, Obserschall notes how 750 Palestinians were killed during The First Intifada, 13,000 were wounded, hundreds lost their homes, and thousands were arrested and detained. In the latter critique, Obserschall writes that the Lebanese frontier and Bosnian frontier are not as comparable as Ron makes them out to be. Bosniaks in Bosnia were unarmed and defenseless whereas Palestinian paramilitaries in South Lebanon were heavily armed and frequently engaged in cross-border military actions against Israelis. Political Scientist Darius Rejali writes that Ron argues \"persuasively\" why it is important to study not just why violence is done, but how. He adds, \"[Ron's] \"study of the practice shows that international norms are far more robust than political scientists normally imagine\".\n\n"}
{"id": "7228701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7228701", "title": "G. V. Atri", "text": "G. V. Atri\n\nG.V. Atri (born G. Vijayakumar Atri, 21 May 1964, died - 30 April 2000) was an Indian singer in Kannada language (spoken in the state of Karnataka of India). He was born in Kanakapura and raised in Bangalore city. He died, along with 5 of his family members, during a bath in a river at Sringeri.\n\nG.V. Atri specialized in Sugama Sangeetha (Light music), the modern singing form. He was trained in Hindustani form of Indian classical music during his formative years under guru, Sheshadri Gavai of Bangalore. He also sang as a playback singer for more than a dozen Kannada movies. He was very popular in performing live on public stage with variety of songs. He was popularly known as Junior P.B. Sreenivas, as his voice resembled that of the ace playback singer of yesteryear, P.B. Sreenivas. He composed and sang a few thousand songs encompassing musical repertoire of romantic, devotional, patriotic, folk and children’s songs for many of his albums.\n\nHe was also a member of the Karnataka Sangeetha Nrithya Academy, a Karnataka Government institution. He organized music oriented social events such as sugama sangeetha seminars, recognition to yester year musicians and music competitions.\n\nHe also organized a music workshop for the benefit of inmates of a Bangalore prison. He believed that music improves the qualities of a human being and thus it could reform even criminals.\n\nHe founded the \"Sangeetha Ganga\" a foundation and music school to train and encourage young and upcoming singers in Kannada. Many have attended Sangeetha Ganga. Many awards have been instituted after his name by public cultural organizations to unearth young talents and encourage them, thus commemorating his memory.\n\n1. Links to news of tragedy:\n2. Links to G.V. Atri commemoration program notification:\n"}
{"id": "34526621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34526621", "title": "Harvey Braban", "text": "Harvey Braban\n\nHarvey Braban (19 May 1883, Brighton, Sussex, UK - 1943) was a British stage actor. He also appeared in films between 1920-1938.\n\nBraban performed regularly in West End plays, and also occasionally on Broadway. From 1920 he began appearing in silent films made by the leading British studios Stoll Pictures and the Ideal Film Company. Braban played the Chief Inspector in Alfred Hitchcock's \"Blackmail\" (1929) and thereafter often portrayed policemen or other official figures of authority on screen. One of his final roles was that of the Victorian Prime Minister Lord Salisbury in the 1938 film \"Sixty Glorious Years\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24570121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24570121", "title": "Henry Churton", "text": "Henry Churton\n\nHenry Norris Churton (15 January 1843 – 20 January 1904) was an Anglican colonial bishop in the 20th century.\n\nChurton was born in 1843 into an ecclesiastical family, the son of Edward Churton, Archdeacon of Cleveland. He was educated at Eton and University College, Oxford; and ordained in 1868. His first posts were curacies at Stoke-on-Trent and East Retford. From 1872 to 1879 he was Vicar of St John Evangelist, West Bromwich then Perpetual Curate of St James’ Chapel, Avonwick. Later he was Archdeacon of the Bahamas before being ordained to the episcopate in 1902, succeeding his elder brother (Edward) as Bishop of Nassau. He was consecrated bishop by the Archbishop of Canterbury at St Paul's Cathedral on 13 July 1902. He had previously received the honorary degree Doctor of Divinity (DD) from the University of Oxford in May 1902.\n\nHe died in a yachting accident on 20 January 1904.\n"}
{"id": "2174841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2174841", "title": "Jetliner position", "text": "Jetliner position\n\nThe jetliner position, also known as the captain's chair, is a form of physical torment used in cases where the tormentor is unable or unwilling to inflict corporal punishment on the subject. The recipient is made to put his back against a wall or pole and place their feet eighteen inches or so from the base of the object. The feet are usually kept close together. The subject must then slide down the wall or pole until his thighs are parallel to the ground, so that his profile is of someone sitting in a chair. He may also be required to slide his feet back until his shins and thighs are at right-angles to each other, which makes the stresses upon the knee joints and thigh muscles much greater.\n\nVariations include placing weight on the subject's head or thighs, or making him hold his arms straight out in front of him, perhaps with a weight clasped in his hands. The result is increasing amounts of pain in the thigh muscles, as well as pain in the knees and ankles. The benefit for the perpetrator is that this kind of punishment causes pain without any lasting marks or, under all but the most extreme conditions, lasting damage to the subjects.\n\nIt was a very common form of torture and humiliation during China's Cultural Revolution.\n\nIn India this method of punishment is often referred to as the chair and was or is used in correcting juvenile delinquents. Also in other countries it was a commonly used punishment.\n"}
{"id": "8091525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8091525", "title": "John Mure", "text": "John Mure\n\nJohn Mure (ca.1776 – January 17, 1823) was a businessman and political figure in Lower Canada.\n\nHe was born in Scotland around 1776, probably in Kilmarnock parish, and had arrived in Montreal by 1782. In 1778, he was hired by James Tod as a clerk at Quebec City. He later went into business on his own, involved in the fur trade and the importing of goods. In 1796, with Tod and others, he was purchased the fiefs of Grosse-Île and Granville. He married his cousin, Margaret Porteous, in 1798; she died the following year and their child died while still very young. Mure was involved in a conglomerate of companies that took part in the fur trade, supplied traders and merchants and trans-Atlantic shipping. He later became a partner in the XY Company and then in the North West Company.\n\nMure also took part in the timber trade. In 1799, he was named justice of the peace. In 1804, he was elected to the Legislative Assembly of Lower Canada for York in the Ottawa valley; he was reelected there in 1808 and 1809. In 1810, he was elected to the legislative assembly for the Lower Town of Quebec. He was named to the Executive Council in 1812. Mure served as an officer in the local militia during the War of 1812. He had also served as assistant coroner for Quebec district from 1807 to 1811. In 1817, he dissolved his company and arrived in Glasgow later that year. He died at Glasgow in 1823.\n\n"}
{"id": "368513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=368513", "title": "Killed in action", "text": "Killed in action\n\nKilled in action (KIA) is a casualty classification generally used by militaries to describe the deaths of their own combatants at the hands of hostile forces. The United States Department of Defense, for example, says that those declared KIA need not have fired their weapons but have been killed due to hostile attack. KIAs do not come from incidents such as accidental vehicle crashes and other \"non-hostile\" events or terrorism. KIA can be applied both to front-line combat troops and to naval, air and support troops. Someone who is killed in action during a particular event is denoted with a \n\nFurther, KIA denotes one to have been killed in action on the battlefield whereas died of wounds (DOW) relates to someone who survived to reach a medical treatment facility. The North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) also uses DWRIA, rather than DOW, for \"died of wounds received in action\". However, historically, militaries and historians have used the former acronym.\n\nPKIA means \"presumed killed in action\" This term is used when personnel are lost in battle, initially listed MIA, but after not being found, are later presumed to have not survived.\nNATO defines \"killed in action\" or a battle casualty as when a combatant is killed outright or who dies as a result of wounds or other injuries before reaching a medical treatment facility or help from fellow soldiers.\n\n"}
{"id": "3778085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3778085", "title": "Laurent Itti", "text": "Laurent Itti\n\nLaurent Itti (born December 12, 1970 in Tours, France) is a computational neuroscientist. He received his MS in \"Image Processing\" from the École Nationale Supérieure des Télécommunications de Paris in 1994, and a PhD in Computation and Neural Systems from Caltech in 2000. He is currently an Associate Professor of Computer Science, Psychology, and Neuroscience at the University of Southern California, where he has been since 2000. \n\nAs a PhD student under the tutelage of Christof Koch, Itti developed a computer model that simulates brain mechanisms involved in the deployment of visual attention ,\n. This so-called saliency model has been cited by hundreds of peer-reviewed publications. The software implementation of this model is part of the iLab Neuromorphic Vision Toolkit, which is freely distributed under the GNU general public license. \n\nItti has also been very active in developing computer vision applications, particularly in the context of autonomous vehicles (both terrestrial and underwater ), as well as in comparing model simulations to empirical measurements based on a wide spectrum of techniques, including eye tracking, psychophysics, neuroimaging, and electrophysiology . \n\nItti is credited with authoring several dozens of peer-reviewed publications , and 3 image processing patents . He also co-developed the Coregistration for Neuroimaging Systems software package, a suite of image processing tools for analyzing neuroimaging data, which is routinely used by several hospitals and research labs in the U.S. and Europe. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "810555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=810555", "title": "Leonardus Achates", "text": "Leonardus Achates\n\nLeonardus Achates de Basilea, born Leonhard Agtstein in Basel, was a compositor who worked from 1472 to 1491. He is one of the first to introduce the art of printing books in Italy.\n\nIn 1472 he published a folio edition of Virgil in Venice. In the same year, he appears in Vicenza where he seems to have lived most of the time. In the meantime however, editions appeared in Padua and St. Ursus.\n\nAchates printed books on various subjects, including agriculture, grammar, juristic and theological works. Two of his works are suspected reprints.\n\n"}
{"id": "3430462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3430462", "title": "Microsporangia", "text": "Microsporangia\n\nMicrosporangia are sporangia that produce microspores and give rise to male gametes. Microsporangia occur in all plants that have heterosporic life cycles, such as spike mosses. In gymnosperms and angiosperm anthers, the microsporangia produce the microsporocytes, the microspore mother cells, which then produce four microspores through the process of meiosis. In the microsporocyte of \"Arabidopsis thaliana\", meiosis depends on the expression of genes that facilitate DNA repair and homologous recombination.\nThe microspores divide by mitosis to produce pollen grains.\n\nIn angiosperms, a very young anther (the part of the stamen that contains the pollen) consists of actively dividing meristematic cells surrounded by a layer of epidermis. It then becomes two-lobed. Each anther lobe develops two pollen sacs. Then, a two-lobed anther develops four pollen sacs that situate at four corners of the anther. Development of pollen sacs begins with the differentiation of archesporial cells in the hypodermal region below epidermis at four corners of the young anther. The archesporial cells divide by periclinal division to give a subepidermal primary parietal layer and a primary sporogenous layer. The cells of the primary parietal layer divide by successive periclinal and anticlinal divisions to form concentric layers of pollen sac wall. The wall layers from periphery to center consist of:\n\n"}
{"id": "1128936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1128936", "title": "Mitogen-activated protein kinase", "text": "Mitogen-activated protein kinase\n\nA mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK or MAP kinase) is a type of protein kinase that is specific to the amino acids serine and threonine (i.e., a serine/threonine-specific protein kinase). MAPKs are involved in directing cellular responses to a diverse array of stimuli, such as mitogens, osmotic stress, heat shock and proinflammatory cytokines. They regulate cell functions including proliferation, gene expression, differentiation, mitosis, cell survival, and apoptosis.\n\nMAP kinases are found in eukaryotes only, but they are fairly diverse and encountered in all animals, fungi and plants, and even in an array of unicellular eukaryotes.\n\nMAPKs belong to the CMGC (CDK/MAPK/GSK3/CLK) kinase group. The closest relatives of MAPKs are the cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs).\n\nThe first mitogen-activated protein kinase to be discovered was ERK1 (MAPK3) in mammals. Since ERK1 and its close relative ERK2 (MAPK1) are both involved in growth factor signaling, the family was termed \"mitogen-activated\". With the discovery of other members, even from distant organisms (e.g. plants), it has become increasingly clear that the name is a misnomer, since most MAPKs are actually involved in the response to potentially harmful, abiotic stress stimuli (hyperosmosis, oxidative stress, DNA damage, low osmolarity, infection, etc.). Because plants cannot \"flee\" from stress, terrestrial plants have the highest number of MAPK genes per organism ever found. Thus the role of mammalian ERK1/2 kinases as regulators of cell proliferation is not a generic, but a highly specialized function.\n\nMost MAPKs have a number of shared characteristics, such as the activation dependent on two phosphorylation events, a three-tiered pathway architecture and similar substrate recognition sites. These are the \"classical\" MAP kinases. But there are also some ancient outliers from the group as sketched above, that do not have dual phosphorylation sites, only form two-tiered pathways, and lack the features required by other MAPKs for substrate binding. These are usually referred to as \"atypical\" MAPKs. It is yet unclear if the atypical MAPKs form a single group as opposed to the classical ones.\n\nMitogen-activated protein kinases are catalytically inactive in their base form. In order to become active, they require (potentially multiple) phosphorylation events in their activation loops. This is conducted by specialized enzymes of the STE protein kinase group.\n\nIn the case of classical MAP kinases, the activation loop contains a characteristic TxY (threonine-x-tyrosine) motif (TEY in mammalian ERK1 and ERK2, TDY in ERK5, TPY in JNKs, TGY in p38 kinases) that needs to be phosphorylated on both the threonine and the tyrosine residues in order to lock the kinase domain in a catalytically competent conformation. In vivo and in vitro, phosphorylation of tyrosine oftentimes precedes phosphorylation of threonine, although phosphorylation of either residue can occur in the absence of the other.\n\nThis tandem activation loop phosphorylation (that was proposed to be either distributive or processive, dependent on cellular environment) is performed by members of the Ste7 protein kinase family, also known as MAP2 kinases. MAP2 kinases in turn, are also activated by phosphorylation, by a number of different upstream serine-threonine kinases (MAP3 kinases). Because MAP2 kinases display very little activity on substrates other than their cognate MAPK, classical MAPK pathways form multi-tiered, but relatively linear pathways. These pathways can effectively convey stimuli from the cell membrane (where many MAP3Ks are activated) to the nucleus (where only MAPKs may enter) or to many other subcellular targets.\n\nIn comparison to the three-tiered classical MAPK pathways, some atypical MAP kinases appear to have a more ancient, two-tiered system. ERK3 (MAPK6) and ERK4 (MAPK4) were recently shown to be directly phosphorylated and thus activated by PAK kinases (related to other MAP3 kinases). In contrast to the classical MAP kinases, these atypical MAPKs require only a single residue in their activation loops to be phosphorylated. The details of NLK and ERK7 (MAPK15) activation remain unknown.\n\nInactivation of MAPKs is performed by a number of phosphatases. A very conserved family of dedicated phosphatases is the so-called MAP kinase phosphatases (MKPs), a subgroup of dual-specificity phosphatases (DUSPs). As their name implies, these enzymes are capable of hydrolyzing the phosphate from both phosphotyrosine and the phosphothreonine residues. Since removal of either phosphate groups will greatly reduce MAPK activity, essentially abolishing signaling, some tyrosine phosphatases are also involved in inactivating MAP kinases (e.g. the phosphatases HePTP, STEP and PTPRR in mammals).\n\nAs mentioned above, MAPKs typically form multi-tiered pathways, receiving input several levels above the actual MAP kinase. In contrast to the relatively simple, phosphorylation-dependent activation mechanism of MAPKs and MAP2Ks, MAP3Ks have stunningly complex regulation. Many of the better-known MAP3Ks, such as c-Raf, MEKK4 or MLK3 require multiple steps for their activation. These are typically allosterically-controlled enzymes, tightly locked into an inactive state by multiple mechanisms. The first step en route to their activation consist of relieving their autoinhibition by a smaller ligand (such as Ras for c-Raf, GADD45 for MEKK4 or Cdc42 for MLK3). This commonly (but not always) happens at the cell membrane, where most of their activators are bound (note that small G-proteins are constitutively membrane-associated due to prenylation). That step is followed by side-to-side homo- and heterodimerisation of their now accessible kinase domains. Recently determined complex structures reveal that the dimers are formed in an orientation that leaves both their substrate-binding regions free. Importantly, this dimerisation event also forces the MAP3 kinase domains to adopt a partially active conformation. Full activity is only achieved once these dimers transphosphorylate each other on their activation loops. The latter step can also be achieved or aided by auxiliary protein kinases (MAP4 kinases, members of the Ste20 family). Once a MAP3 kinase is fully active, it may phosphorylate its substrate MAP2 kinases, which in turn will phosphorylate their MAP kinase substrates.\n\nThe ERK1/2 pathway of mammals is probably the best-characterized MAPK system. The most important upstream activators of this pathway are the Raf proteins (A-Raf, B-Raf or c-Raf), the key mediators of response to growth factors (EGF, FGF, PDGF, etc.); but other MAP3Ks such as c-Mos and Tpl2/Cot can also play the same role. All these enzymes phosphorylate and thus activate the MKK1 and/or MKK2 kinases, that are highly specific activators for ERK1 and ERK2. The latter phosphorylate a number of substrates important for cell proliferation, cell cycle progression, cell division and differentiation (RSK kinases, Elk-1 transcription factor, etc.)\n\nIn contrast to the relatively well-insulated ERK1/2 pathway, mammalian p38 and JNK kinases have most of their activators shared at the MAP3K level (MEKK1, MEKK4, ASK1, TAK1, MLK3, TAOK1, etc.). In addition, some MAP2K enzymes may activate both p38 and JNK (MKK4), while others are more specific for either JNK (MKK7) or p38 (MKK3 and MKK6). Due to these interlocks, there are very few if any stimuli that can elicit JNK activation without simultaneously activating p38 or reversed. Both JNK and p38 signaling pathways are responsive to stress stimuli, such as cytokines, ultraviolet irradiation, heat shock, and osmotic shock, and are involved in adaptation to stress, apoptosis or cell differentiation. JNKs have a number of dedicated substrates that only they can phosphorylate (c-Jun, NFAT4, etc.), while p38s also have some unique targets (e.g. the MAPKAP kinases MK2 and MK3), ensuring the need for both in order to respond to stressful stimuli.\n\nERK5 is part of a fairly well-separated pathway in mammals. Its sole specific upstream activator MKK5 is turned on in response to the MAP3 kinases MEKK2 and MEKK3. The specificity of these interactions are provided by the unique architecture of MKK5 and MEKK2/3, both containing N-terminal PB1 domains, enabling direct heterodimerisation with each other. The PB1 domain of MKK5 also contributes to the ERK5-MKK5 interaction: it provides a special interface (in addition to the D-motif found in MKK5) through which MKK5 can specifically recognize its substrate ERK5. Although the molecular-level details are poorly known, MEKK2 and MEKK3 respond to certain developmental cues to direct endothel formation and cardiac morphogenesis. While also implicated in brain development, the embryonic lethality of ERK5 inactivation due to cardiac abnormalities underlines its central role in mammalian vasculogenesis. It is notable, that conditional knockout of ERK5 in adult animals is also lethal, due to the widespread disruption of endothelial barriers. Mutations in the upstream components of the ERK5 pathway (the CCM complex) are thought to underlie cerebral cavernous malformations in humans.\n\nMAPK pathways of fungi are also well studied. In yeast, the Fus3 MAPK is responsible for cell cycle arrest and mating in response to pheromone stimulation. The pheromone alpha-factor is sensed by a seven transmembrane receptor. The recruitment and activation of Fus3 pathway components are strictly dependent on heterotrimeric G-protein activation. The mating MAPK pathway consist of three tiers (Ste11-Ste7-Fus3), but the MAP2 and MAP3 kinases are shared with another pathway, the Kss1 or filamentous growth pathway. While Fus3 and Kss1 are closely related ERK-type kinases, yeast cells can still activate them separately, with the help of a scaffold protein Ste5 that is selectively recruited by the G-proteins of the mating pathway. The trick is that Ste5 can associate with and \"unlock\" Fus3 for Ste7 as a substrate in a tertiary complex, while it does not do the same for Kss1, leaving the filamentous growth pathway to be activated only in the absence of Ste5 recruitment.\n\nFungi also have a pathway reminiscent of mammalian JNK/p38 signaling. This is the Hog1 pathway: activated by high osmolarity (in \"Saccharomyces cerevisiae\") or a number of other abiotic stresses (in \"Schizosaccharomyces pombe\"). The MAP2 kinase of this pathway is called Pbs2 (related to mammalian MKK3/4/6/7), the dedicated MAP3 kinases involved in activation are Ssk2 and SSk22. The system in \"S. cerevisiae\" is activated by a sophisticated osmosensing module consisting of the Sho1 and Sln1 proteins, but it is yet unclear how other stimuli can elicit activation of Hog1. Yeast also displays a number of other MAPK pathways without close homologs in animals, such as the cell wall integrity pathway (Mpk1/Slt2) or the sporulation pathway (Smk1).\n\nDespite the high number of MAPK genes, MAPK pathways of higher plants were studied less than animal or fungal ones. Although their signaling appears very complex, the MPK3, MPK4 and MPK6 kinases of \"Arabidopsis thaliana\" are key mediators of responses to osmotic shock, oxidative stress, response to cold and involved in anti-pathogen responses. In addition, they are also involved in morphogenesis, since MPK4 mutants display severe dwarfism.\n\nMembers of the MAPK family can be found in every eukaryotic organism examined so far. In particular, both classical and atypical MAP kinases can be traced back to the root of the radiation of major eukaryotic groups. Terrestrial plants contain four groups of classical MAPKs (MAPK-A, MAPK-B, MAPK-C and MAPK-D) that are involved in response to myriads of abiotic stresses. However, none of these groups can be directly equated to the clusters of classical MAPKs found in opisthokonts (fungi and animals). In the latter, the major subgroups of classical MAPKs form the ERK/Fus3-like branch (that is further sub-divided in metazoans into ERK1/2 and ERK5 subgroups), and the p38/Hog1-like kinases (that has also split into the p38 and the JNK subgroups in multicellular animals). In addition, there are several MAPKs in both fungi and animals, whose origins are less clear, either due to high divergence (e.g. NLK), or due to possibly being an early offshoot to the entire MAPK family (ERK3, ERK4, ERK7). In vertebrates, due to the twin whole genome duplications after the cephalochordate/vertebrate split, there are several paralogs in every group. Thus ERK1 and ERK2 both correspond to the \"Drosophila\" kinase \"rolled\", JNK1, JNK2 and JNK3 are all orthologous to the gene \"basket\" in \"Drosophila\". Although among the p38 group, p38 alpha and beta are clearly paralogous pairs, and so are p38 gamma and delta in vertebrates, the timing of the base split is less clear, given that many metazoans already possess multiple p38 homologs (there are three p38-type kinases in \"Drosophila\", \"Mpk2\"(\"p38a\"), \"p38b\" and \"p38c\"). The single ERK5 protein appears to fill a very specialized role (essential for vascular development in vertebrates) wherever it is present. This lineage has been deleted in protostomes, together with its upstream pathway components (MEKK2/3, MKK5), although they are clearly present in cnidarians, sponges and even in certain unicellular organisms (e.g. the choanoflagellate \"Monosiga brevicollis\") closely related to the origins of multicellular animals.\n\nThe split between classical and some atypical MAP kinases happened quite early. This is suggested not just by the high divergence between extant genes, but also recent discoveries of atypical MAPKs in primitive, basal eukaryotes. The genome sequencing of \"Giardia lamblia\" revealed the presence of two MAPK genes, one of them similar to the already-well-known mammalian MAPKs (ERKs, p38s, etc.), the other one showing similarities to the mammalian ERK7 protein. The situation is similar in the multicellular amoeba \"Dictyostelium discoideum\", where the ddERK1 protein appears to be a classical MAPK, while ddERK2 more closely resembles our ERK7 and ERK3/4 proteins. Atypical MAPKs can also be found in higher plants, although they are poorly known. Similar to the situation in mammals, most aspects of atypical MAPKs are uncharacterized due to the lack of research focus on this area.\n\nAs typical for the CMGC kinase group, the catalytic site of MAP kinases has a very loose consensus sequence for substrates. Like all their relatives, they only require the target serine / threonine amino acids to be followed by a small amino acid, preferably proline (\"proline-directed kinases\"). But as SP/TP sites are extremely common in all proteins, additional substrate-recognition mechanisms have evolved to ensure signaling fidelty. Unlike their closest relatives, the cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs), where substrates are recognized by the cyclin subunit, MAPKs associate with their substrates via auxiliary binding regions on their kinase domains. The most important such region consists of the hydrophobic docking groove and the negatively charged CD-region. Together they recognize the so-called MAPK docking or D-motifs (also called kinase interaction motif / KIM). D-motifs essentially consist of one or two positively charged amino acids, followed by alternating hydrophobic residues (mostly leucines), typically upstream of the phosphorylation site by 10–50 amino acids. Many of the known MAPK substrates contain such D-motifs that can not only bind to, but also provide specific recognition by certain MAPKs. D-motifs are not restricted to substrates: MAP2 kinases also contain such motifs on their N-termini that are absolutely required for MAP2K-MAPK interaction and MAPK activation. Similarly, both dual-specificity MAP kinase phosphatases and MAP-specific tyrosine phosphatases bind to MAP kinases through the same docking site. D-motifs can even be found in certain MAPK pathway regulators and scaffolds (e.g. in the mammalian JIP proteins).\n\nOther, less well characterised substrate-binding sites also exist. One such site (the DEF site) is formed by the activation loop (when in the active conformation) and the MAP kinase-specific insert below it. This site can accommodate peptides with an FxFP consensus sequence, typically downstream of the phosphorylation site. Note that the latter site can only be found in proteins that need to selectively recognize the active MAP kinases, thus they are almost exclusively found in substrates. Different motifs may cooperate with each other, as in the Elk family of transcription factors, that possess both a D-motif and an FxFP motif. The presence of an FxFP motif in the KSR1 scaffold protein also serves to make it an ERK1/2 substrate, providing a negative feedback mechanism to set the correct strength of ERK1/2 activation.\n\nSince the discovery of Ste5 in yeast, scientists were on the hunt to discover similar non-enzymatic scaffolding pathway elements in mammals. There are indeed a number of proteins involved in ERK signaling, that can bind to multiple elements of the pathway: MP1 binds both MKK1/2 and ERK1/2, KSR1 and KSR2 can bind B-Raf or c-Raf, MKK1/2 and ERK1/2. Analogous proteins were also discovered for the JNK pathway: the JIP1/JIP2 and the JIP3/JIP4 families of proteins were all shown to bind MLKs, MKK7 and any JNK kinase. Unfortunately, unlike the yeast Ste5, the mechanisms by which they regulate MAPK activation are considerably less understood. While Ste5 actually forms a ternary complex with Ste7 and Fus3 to promote phosphorylation of the latter, known mammalian scaffold proteins appear to work by very different mechanisms. For example, KSR1 and KSR2 are actually MAP3 kinases and related to the Raf proteins. Although KSRs alone display negligible MAP3 kinase activity, KSR proteins can still participate in the activation of Raf kinases by forming side-to-side heterodimers with them, providing an allosteric pair to turn on each enzymes. JIPs on the other hand, are apparently transport proteins, responsible for enrichment of MAPK signaling components in certain compartments of polarized cells. In this context, JNK-dependent phosphorylation of JIP1 (and possibly JIP2) provides a signal for JIPs to release the JIP-bound and inactive upstream pathway components, thus driving a strong local positive feedback loop. This sophisticated mechanism couples kinesin-dependent transport to local JNK activation, not only in mammals, but also in the fruitfly \"Drosophila melanogaster\".\n\nSince the ERK signaling pathway is involved in both physiological and pathological cell proliferation, it is natural that ERK1/2 inhibitors would represent a desirable class of antineoplastic agents. Indeed, many of the proto-oncogenic \"driver\" mutations are tied to ERK1/2 signaling, such as constitutively active (mutant) receptor tyrosine kinases, Ras or Raf proteins. Although no MKK1/2 or ERK1/2 inhibitors were developed for clinical use, kinase inhibitors that also inhibit Raf kinases (e.g. Sorafenib) are successful antineoplastic agents against various types of cancer.\n\nJNK kinases are implicated in the development of insulin resistance in obese individuals as well as neurotransmitter excitotoxicity after ischaemic conditions. Inhibition of JNK1 ameliorates insulin resistance in certain animal models. Mice that were genetically engineered to lack a functional JNK3 gene - the major isoform in brain – display enhanced ischemic tolerance and stroke recovery. Although small-molecule JNK inhibitors are under development, none of them proved to be effective in human tests yet. A peptide-based JNK inhibitor (AM-111, a retro-inverse D-motif peptide from JIP1, formerly known as XG-102) is also under clinical development for sensorineural hearing loss.\n\np38 was once believed to be a perfect target for anti-inflammatory drugs. Yet the failure of more than a dozen chemically different compounds in the clinical phase suggests that p38 kinases might be poor therapeutic targets in autoimmune diseases. Many of these compounds were found to be hepatotoxic to various degree and tolerance to the anti-inflammatory effect developed within weeks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43770701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43770701", "title": "Moral blindness", "text": "Moral blindness\n\nMoral blindness is a state of unawareness or insensibility to moral issues pertaining both to oneself and to one's relations to others. George Eliot considered that \"We are all of us born in moral stupidity, taking the world as an udder to feed our supreme selves\". Healthy development leads away from early egotism to produce greater levels of awareness, leading to degrees of what Abraham Maslow called \"lesser blindness\".\n\nCritics question whether \"moral blindness\" is ever more than a useful weapon of debate with which to charge one's opponents.\n\nPhilosophically, moral blindness has been explored from Plato's tyrant onwards, through Epitectus and Kant, but came into full prominence with Ethical intuitionism. Figures like G. E. Moore argued for a \"direct moral awareness\" and saw moral blindness as the equivalent of colour blindness.\n\nMelanie Klein saw early development in terms of the child slowly emerging from a state of narcissistic blindness to recognise the motherer as a moral end in herself, not simply as the child's means or tool—a step she called the depressive position. D. W. Winnicott similarly saw the infant as moving from —from an unconcerned use of the mother to concerned usage.\n\nZygmunt Bauman considers certain features of 21st century society to actively promote moral blindness. A valorisation of commodities as ephemeral and exchangeable combines with the effect of internet anonymity to create a culture that tends to ignore of the particularity of the individual. Equally pernicious is the extension of a calculus of gain over ever-wider areas of life, to the exclusion of moral evaluation—the unchallenged moral blindness of the market.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "209846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=209846", "title": "National Museum of Iraq", "text": "National Museum of Iraq\n\nThe National Museum of Iraq (Arabic: المتحف العراقي) is a museum located in Baghdad, Iraq. Also known as the Iraq Museum, it contains precious relics from the Mesopotamian, Babylonian and Persian civilization. It was looted during and after the 2003 Invasion of Iraq. Despite international efforts, only some of the stolen artifacts were returned. After being closed for many years while being refurbished, and rarely open for public viewing, the museum was officially reopened in February 2015.\n\nAfter World War I, archaeologists from Europe and the United States began several excavations throughout Iraq. In an effort to keep those findings from leaving Iraq, British traveller, intelligence agent, archaeologist, and author Gertrude Bell began collecting the artifacts in a government building in Baghdad in 1922. In 1926, the Iraqi government moved the collection to a new building and established the Baghdad Antiquities Museum, with Bell as its director. Bell died later that year; the new director was Sidney Smith.\n\nIn 1966, the collection was moved again, to a two-story, building in Baghdad's Al-Ṣāliḥiyyah neighborhood in the Al-Karkh district on the east side of the Tigris River. It is with this move that the name of the museum was changed to the National Museum of Iraq. It was originally known as the Baghdad Archaeological Museum.\n\nDue to the archaeological riches of Mesopotamia, its collections are considered to be among the most important in the world and has a fine record of scholarship and display. The British connection with the museum — and with Iraq — has resulted in exhibits always being displayed bilingually, in both English and Arabic. It contains important artifacts from the over 5,000-year-long history of Mesopotamia in 28 galleries and vaults.\n\nThe collections of the National Museum of Iraq include art and artifacts from ancient Sumerian, Babylonian, Akkadian and Assyrian civilizations. The museum also has galleries devoted to collections of both pre-Islamic and Islamic Arabian art and artifacts. Of its many noteworthy collections, the Nimrud gold collection—which features gold jewelry and figures of precious stone that date to the 9th century bce—and the collection of stone carvings and cuneiform tablets from Uruk are exceptional. The Uruk treasures date to between 3500 and 3000 BCE.\n\nIn the months preceding the 2003 Iraq war, starting in December and January, various antiquities experts, including representatives from the American Council for Cultural Policy asked the Pentagon and the UK government to ensure the museum's safety from both combat and looting. Although promises were not made, U.S. forces did avoid bombing the site.\n\nOn April 8, 2003 the last of the museum staff left the museum. Iraqi forces engaged U.S. forces from within the museum, as well as the nearby Special Republican Guard compound. Lt. Col. Eric Schwartz of the U.S. third Infantry Division stated that he was unable to enter the compound and secure it since they attempted to avoid returning fire at the building. Sniper positions, discarded ammunition, and 15 Iraqi Army uniforms were later discovered in the building. Iraqi forces had built a fortified wall along the western side of the compound, allowing concealed movement between the front and rear of the museum.\n\nThefts took place between April 10 and 12, when some staff returned to the building and fended off further attempts by looters to enter the museum until U.S. forces arrived on April 16. A special team headed by Marine Col. Matthew Bogdanos initiated an investigation on April 21. His investigation indicated that despite claims to the contrary, no U.S. forces had looted the building, and that there were three separate thefts by three distinct groups over the four days. While the staff instituted a storage plan to prevent theft and damage (also used during the Iran–Iraq War and the first Gulf War), many larger statues, steles, and friezes had been left in the public galleries, protected with foam and surrounded by sandbags. Forty pieces were stolen from these galleries, mostly the more valuable ones. Of these 13 had been recovered as of January 2005, including the three most valuable: the Sacred Vase of Warka (though broken in fourteen pieces, which was the original state it was found in when first excavated), the Mask of Warka, and the Bassetki Statue.\nAccording to museum officials, the looters concentrated on the heart of the exhibition: \"the Warka Vase, a Sumerian alabaster piece more than 5,000 years old; a bronze Uruk statue from the Akkadian period, also 5,000 years old, which weighs 660 pounds; and the headless statue of Entemena. The Harp of Ur was torn apart by looters who removed its gold inlay.\" Among the stolen artifacts is the bronze Bassetki Statue, a life-size statue of a young man, originally found in the village Basitke in the northern part of Iraq, an Akkadian Empire piece that goes back to 2300 B.C. and the stone statue of King Schalmanezer, from the eighth century B.C.\n\nIn addition, the museum's aboveground storage rooms were looted; the exterior steel doors showed no signs of forced entry. Approximately 3,100 excavation site pieces (jars, vessels, pottery shards, etc.) were stolen, of which over 3,000 have been recovered. The thefts did not appear to be discriminating; for example, an entire shelf of fakes was stolen, while an adjacent shelf of much greater value was undisturbed.\n\nThe third occurrence of theft was in the underground storage rooms, where evidence pointed to an inside job. The thieves attempted to steal the most easily transportable objects, which had been intentionally stored in the most remote location possible. Of the four rooms, the only portion disturbed was a single corner in the furthest room, where cabinets contained 100 small boxes containing cylinder seals, beads, and jewelry. Evidence indicated that the thieves possessed keys to the cabinets but dropped them in the dark. Instead, they stole 10,000 small objects that were lying in plastic boxes on the floor. Of them, nearly 2,500 have been recovered.\n\nOne of the most valuable artifacts looted was a headless stone statue of the Sumerian king Entemena of Lagash. The Entemena statue, \"estimated to be 4,400 years old, is the first significant artifact returned from the United States and by far the most important piece found outside Iraq. American officials declined to discuss how they recovered the statue.\" The statue of the king, located in the center of the museum's second-floor Sumerian Hall, weighs hundreds of pounds, making it the heaviest piece stolen from the museum - the looters \"probably rolled or slid it down marble stairs to remove it, smashing the steps and damaging other artifacts.\"\n\nThe U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) announced the recovery of the statue of King Entemena of Lagash on July 25, 2006. The statue was returned to the Iraq government. It was recovered in the United States with the help of Hicham Aboutaam, an art dealer in New York.\n\nThe U.S. government was criticised for doing nothing to protect the museum after occupying Baghdad. Dr. Irving Finkel of the British Museum said the looting was \"entirely predictable and could easily have been stopped.\" Martin E. Sullivan, chairman of the U.S. President's Advisory Committee on Cultural Property, and U.S. State Department cultural advisers Gary Vikan and Richard S. Lanier resigned in protest at the failure of US forces to prevent the looting.\n\nThe extent of the looting of Iraq's National Museum has been disputed. Based on a miscommunication by the first crews on the scene, and the empty display cases in the main galleries that in most cases had held objects which museum curators had removed before the invasion, news organizations for weeks reported that as much as 170,000 catalogued lots (501,000 pieces) had been looted, when the true figure was around 15,000 items, including 5,000 extremely valuable cylinder seals.\n\nReacting to the incorrect initial reports that the museum was a total loss, French President Jacques Chirac on April 16, 2003, declared the incident \"a crime against humanity.\"\n\nLater in 2003, \"The Daily Telegraph\" (of London) reported:\n\nWhen asked why the U.S. military did not try to guard the museum in the days after the invasion succeeded, Gen. Richard Myers, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said \"If you remember, when some of that looting was going on, people were being killed, people were being wounded ... It's as much as anything else a matter of priorities.\" Civil Affairs expert William Sumner, who was tasked with handling arts, monuments, and archives, explained that the postwar Civil Affairs planners \"didn't foresee the marines as going out and assigning marine units as security ... The issue of archaeological sites was considered a targeting problem,\" to be dealt with by those flying bombing missions. Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld, speaking about the museum's looting, said \"stuff happens\" and \"to try to pass off the fact of that unfortunate activity to a deficit in the war plan strikes me as a stretch\", and described the period of looting in general as \"untidiness\". Secretary of State Colin Powell said, \"The United States understands its obligations and will be taking a leading role with respect to antiquities in general but this museum in particular.\"\n\nTwo weeks after the museum thefts, when major news outlets still were reporting most of the museum's artifacts were gone, Dr. Donny George Youkhanna, General Director Research Studies for the Board of Antiquities in Iraq, said of the looting, \"It's the crime of the century, because it affects the heritage of all mankind\". After the U.S. Marines set up headquarters in Baghdad's Palestine Hotel, Dr. Youkhanna said he went there to plead for troops to protect the remainder of the Museum collection, but no guards were sent for another three days. Whether or not this was due to continued fighting is unclear.\n\nA few days later, agents of the FBI were sent to Iraq to search for stolen Museum property. UNESCO organized an emergency meeting of antiquities experts on April 17, 2003 in Paris to deal with the aftermath of the looting and its effects on the global art and antiquities market.\n\nOn April 18, 2003, the Baghdad Museum Project was formed in the United States with a proposal to assure the National Museum of Iraq every possibility of the eventual safe return of its collection, even if that is to take hundreds of years. Rather than focus only on law enforcement and the current antiquities market, the group set its mission as being to (1) establish a comprehensive online catalog of all cultural artifacts in the museum's collection, (2) create a virtual Baghdad Museum that is accessible to the general public over the Internet, (3) build a 3D collaborative workspace within the virtual Baghdad Museum for design and fundraising purposes, and (4) establish a resource center within the virtual Baghdad Museum for community cultural development. Various ancient items believed looted from the museum have surfaced in Jordan, Lebanon, the United States, Switzerland, and Japan, and on eBay.\n\nOn May 7, 2003, U.S. officials announced that nearly 40,000 manuscripts and 700 artifacts belonging to the National Museum of Iraq in Baghdad were recovered by U.S. Customs agents working with museum experts in Iraq. Some looters had returned items after promises of rewards and amnesty, and many items previously reported missing had actually been hidden in secret storage vaults at the museum prior to the outbreak of war. On June 7, 2003, U.S. authorities announced that world-famous treasures of Nimrud were recovered from a secret vault in the Iraqi Central Bank. The artifacts included necklaces, plates, gold earrings, finger and toe rings, bowls and flasks. Officials said that of the 170,000 items initially believed missing, just 3,000 remained unaccounted for. And, of those, 47 were main exhibition artifacts. In November, 2003 Coalition officials reported a few dozen of the most important items remained missing from the museum's public galleries, along with another 10,000 other items—most of them tiny and some of them fragments. The ultimate figure is now estimated at around 15,000 and the tiny items include some of the most valuable artifacts on the antiquities markets.\n\nThe museum has been protected since its looting, but archaeological sites in Iraq were left almost entirely unprotected by coalition forces, and there has been massive looting, especially in the period just before the invasion (when Saddam Hussein pulled forces away from site protection) and between summer 2003 and the end of 2007. Estimates are that 400–600,000 artifacts have been plundered. Iraqi sculptor Mohammed Ghani Hikmat spearheaded efforts by the Iraqi artist community to recover artworks looted from the museum. Approximately 150 of Hikmat's pieces were stolen from the museum alone. Hikmat's group has recovered approximately 100 of the museum's works, as of September 2011.\n\nUnited States Marine Colonel, and Manhattan Assistant District Attorney Matthew Bogdanos led the search for these stolen artifacts for over five years from 2003. Up to the year 2006 approximately 10,000 artifacts were recovered through his efforts. Antiquities recovered include the Warka Vase and the Mask of Warka.\n\nAt various Iraq reconstruction conferences, the Baghdad Museum Project gave presentations to the reconstruction community advocating preservation of Iraq's cultural heritage in rebuilding projects. On August 27, 2006, Iraq's museum director Dr. Donny Youkhanna fled the country to Syria, claiming \"pressure to follow a radical Islamic agenda in the preservation of Iraqi antiquities made his position impossible.\". Youkhanna held the position of visiting professor in the anthropology department of Stony Brook State University of New York until his death in March 2011.\n\nOn June 9, 2009, the treasures of the National Museum went online for the first time as Italy inaugurated the Virtual Museum of Iraq. On November 24, 2009, Google announced that it would create a virtual copy of the museum's collections at its own expense, and make images of four millennia of archaeological treasures available online, free, by early 2010. It is unclear the extent by which Google's effort overlaps with Italy's previous initiative. Google's Street View service was used to image much of the museum's exhibit areas and, as of November 2011, these images are online.\n\nThe museum has opened its doors on only a dozen times since September 1980 during the Iran-Iraq War. Since the invasion, it has opened only rarely, opened on July 3, 2003 for several hours for a visit by journalists and Coalition Provisional Authority head J. Paul Bremer, as a signal that things were returning to normal. In December 2008, the museum was opened for a photo opportunity for Ahmad Chalabi, who returned a number of artifacts supposedly handed in to him by Iraqis. The latest opening occurred on February 23, 2009, at the behest of Iraqi prime minister Maliki, to demonstrate that things were returning to normal. Many archaeological officials protested against this opening, arguing that conditions were not yet safe enough to put the museum at risk; the museum's director was fired for airing her objections.\n\nIn a ceremony to mark the occasion, Qahtan Abbas, Iraq's tourism and antiquities minister, said that only 6,000 of the 15,000 items looted in 2003 had been returned. In a book published in 2009, it was estimated that 600,000 archaeological pieces were looted by Kurdish and Shia militias allied with the United States since 2003 In September 2011 Iraqi officials announced the renovated museum will permanently reopen in November, protected by new climate control and security systems. The United States and Italian governments have both contributed to the renovation effort.\n\nOn February 28, 2015 the museum was officially reopened by Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi. The museum also has items taken from the Mosul Museum, as ISIS has taken it over.\n\nOn September 7, 2010, the Associated Press reported that 540 looted treasures were returned to Iraq.\n\n638 stolen artifacts were returned to the Iraqi National Museum after they were located in the office of Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki.\n\nOn January 30, 2012, a 6,500-year-old Sumerian gold jar, the head of a Sumerian battle axe and a stone from an Assyrian palace were among 45 relics returned to Iraq by Germany. Up to 10,000 of the National Museum pieces are still missing, said Amira Eidan, general director of the museum at the time of the recovery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32821130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32821130", "title": "Nonviolence: The History of a Dangerous Idea", "text": "Nonviolence: The History of a Dangerous Idea\n\nNonviolence: The History of a Dangerous Idea, first published as Nonviolence: Twenty-Five Lessons from the History of a Dangerous Idea, is a book by Mark Kurlansky. It follows the history of nonviolence and nonviolent activism, focusing on religious and political ideals from early history to the present.\n\nKurlansky summarizes the Twenty-Five Lessons as follows: \n\nThis book was the 2007 non-fiction winner of the Dayton Literary Peace Prize.\n\n"}
{"id": "31044063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31044063", "title": "Oahu sugar strike of 1920", "text": "Oahu sugar strike of 1920\n\nThe Oahu sugar strike of 1920 was a multiracial strike in Hawaii of two unions, the Filipino American Filipino Labor Union and the Japanese American Federation of Japanese Labor. The labor action involved 8,300 sugar plantation field workers out on strike from January to July 1920.\n\nThe unions' demands for a pay increase were met by the Hawaiian Sugar Planters' Association. Some 150 evicted workers and their family members died of the epidemic Spanish Flu during the strike, with their poor living conditions presumably contributing to their deaths.\n\nBefore the 1920 strike, when one ethnic group went on strike the other groups worked as strikebreakers, leading to a strike's failure. Before the strike fieldworkers were paid wages that met the poverty line. With the start of World War I, supplies directed to the war effort drove up living expenses and wages remained the same, putting much of the plantation work force into destitution, which lingered after the war ended. After years of organizing, the Filipino Labor Union and the Federation of Japanese Labor united the Filipino and Japanese groups. The unions brought their demands to the Hawaiian Sugar Planters' Association on December 4, 1919. The demands were pay raises from $0.77 to a $1.25 for males and $0.58 to $0.90 per day and paid maternal leave for females. Initially the planters refused demands and expected to outlast the strike.\n\nRoughly speaking the strike began for Filipinos on January 20, 1920, and the Japanese officially joined on February 1, although many Japanese joined independently earlier. The strike involved 8,300 workers spanning six plantations: 5,000 Japanese, 3,000 Filipinos, and 300 of other ethnicities – Portuguese, Chinese, Puerto Ricans, Spanish, Mexicans, and Koreans.\n\nIn retaliatory action against the strike the plantations evicted picketers and their families from plantation housing. A total of 12,020 people were evicted. The evicted took shelter in homes of strike sympathizers, hotels, tents, empty buildings and factories as well as Buddhists and Shinto churches, but Christian clergy had been prominent opponents of the strike and turned away homeless pickets and their families from lodging in Christian churches. The Board of Health re-evicted 300 Filipinos that had taken up residence in a brewery at Kakaako and they moved into tents.\n\nAnother dilemma was finances for food. The Japanese union's approach was to build up a reserve for the Japanese picketers and their families; this fund held $900,000. The Filipino union's approach was to be sustained by donations from Filipinos working on other plantations not affected by the strike. In less than a month, the Filipinos were desperately low on funding and on the verge of starvation. If the Filipinos were to return to work the strike would collapse. The Japanese union used their reserves to sustain the Filipino picketers, averting a collapse of the strike.\n\nAfter months of striking immense boredom became a problem that had to be addressed. The Federation of the Japanese Labor arranged a protest march with 3,000 participants on April 3 and went down King street.\n\nDuring the strike the Spanish Flu hit Hawaii. 1,056 Japanese fell ill by the flu of whom 55 died. 1,440 Filipinos fell ill and 95 died during the world-wide epidemic. Picketers directed the blame toward the plantations for the evictions early in the strike causing them to live in crowded living quarters.\n\nThe strike lasted until July 1, more than half a year, when a compromise was reached at the Alexander Young Building which included a 50% pay raise and more benefits. Many workers felt the strike was a failure because the results were not immediate. It would take six months for the products of the strike to fully materialize.\n\nThe strike had taken a toll on both sides; 1,000 strikers had gone back to work and more than 2,000 strikebreakers were hired. The HSPA lost $12,000,000 in potential income. Although the strike was successful, the \"Japanese Problem\" and the \"Filipino Problem\" was exposed as a larger issue than the planters realized.\n"}
{"id": "24725751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24725751", "title": "Old Tsan Yuk Maternity Hospital", "text": "Old Tsan Yuk Maternity Hospital\n\nThe Old Tsan Yuk Maternity Hospital () is located at No. 36A Western Street, Sai Ying Pun, Hong Kong. It was founded in 1922 under the Chinese Public Dispensary Committee. After the war, Tsan Yuk Hospital has moved to Hospital Road and the site has become a multi-purpose community centre called Western District Community Centre ().\n\nThree-storeys high and 1,100 m in area, the British-colonial-style building comprises a three-storey hospital block with a basement, a two-storey staff quarters with annex and a one-storey servant quarters, all of which have now been converted into offices and function rooms for the community centre.\n\nTsan Yuk Hospital was originally located at the cross-section of Western Street and Third Street in Hong Kong's Sai Ying Pun district. The land on which the hospital was built was donated by the government and the $94,000 construction fee was donated by Mr. H. M. H Nemazee, Sai Ying Pun Kai Fong Committee () of the Fishmongers' Guild () and Fruit and Vegetable Sellers' Guild (). The thirty beds were donated by Tung Wah Hospital, another government hospital located in neighbouring Sheung Wan.\n\nThe hospital was opened by the English missionary group London Missionary Society on the 17 October 1922. It was originally opened as a maternity hospital, with the intention to meet society's increasing demand for neonatal services, including the training of midwives and obstetricians. The London Missionary Society recruited the first foreign female doctor in Hong Kong, Dr. Alice D. Hickling, and appointed her as the director of Tsan Yuk. In her development of obstetric services, she quickly recognized the abundance of women eager to become professional midwives in Hong Kong, and had the notion to provide such training through the hospital. She suggested this to Dr. S.W. Tso (), Chairman of the Chinese Public Dispensary Committee (), and he supported her proposal. Thus forward, Tsan Yuk became one of Hong Kong's foremost maternity teaching hospitals.\n\nTsan Yuk Hospital was closed in 1944, during the Japanese occupation of Hong Kong, and most of the furniture and equipment was moved to Pamela Youde Nethersole Eastern Hospital.\n\nBy the early 1950s, Tsan Yuk was experiencing bed shortages and limited places for patients. The Hong Kong Jockey Club donated $3,570,000 to build a new hospital on nearby Hospital Road. On 13 June 1955, Sir Alexander William George Herder Grantham held the opening ceremony for the new Tsan Yuk Hospital. Following the move, the premises were then used to house the Western District Community Centre.\n\nThe Community Centre consists of activity rooms, exhibition rooms and lecture theatres. They are commonly used by the following organizations:\n\nOn 18 September 2009, the building was classified as a Grade III historic building. This means it has been deemed of some significant merit by the Hong Kong Antiquities and Monuments Office, but does not yet qualify for consideration as a monument. It is also one of the 25 sites along the Section A of the \"Western District and the Peak Route\" of the Central and Western Heritage Trail.\n\nIn 2007 The Conservancy Association, a Hong Kong-based NGO dedicated to protecting the environment and conserving cultural heritage, received a donation of HK$7.9 million from the Hong Kong Jockey Club.\nThis money was put towards a renovation project at the former Tsan Yuk Hospital, now the Centre for Heritage, as well as for the launching of a three-year community engagement and education programme advocating the importance of cultural heritage conservation in Hong Kong.\n\nThe renovation occurred over a three-month period in 2008, and included the construction of a multi-purpose hall for exhibitions and public lectures and two activity rooms for holding functions that aim to raise public awareness on cultural and heritage conservation.\n\nThe community outreach component of the programme comprised a wide variety of activities geared towards enhancing recognition and appreciation of local culture amongst the community. Activities included workshops, seminars, exhibitions and guided tours, all of which embodied the theme of sustaining traditional practices in a modern world. Exhibitions in the past covered topics including the Western District community's culture, the architecture in the community and the life in grassroots community.\nThe Centre also collaborates closely with primary and secondary schools and educational institutes to organise activities and design curriculum that promotes an authentic cultural experience for younger generations so they may develop a sense of cultural belongingness.\n\n"}
{"id": "14434409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14434409", "title": "Outline of ethics", "text": "Outline of ethics\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to ethics:\n\nEthics – major branch of philosophy, encompassing right conduct and good life. It is significantly broader than the common conception of analyzing right and wrong. A central aspect of ethics is \"the good life\", the life worth living or life that is simply satisfying, which is held by many philosophers to be more important than moral conduct.\n\nEthics or moral philosophy is a branch of philosophy that involves systematizing, defending, and recommending concepts of right and wrong conduct. The field of ethics, along with aesthetics, concern matters of value, and thus comprise the branch of philosophy called axiology.\n\nThe following examples of questions that might be considered in each field illustrate the differences between the fields:\n\nApplied ethics – using philosophical methods, attempts to identify the morally correct course of action in various fields of human life.\n\npractices of various schools of thought.\n\nNon-cognitivism\n\nCognitivism\n\nNormative ethics – concerns what people should believe to be right and wrong.\n\nis based on facts of the Honorable Keesy Josephat of Tanzania who was the first professor in Tanzania at the lait of 1860\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24181454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24181454", "title": "Paolo Orano", "text": "Paolo Orano\n\nPaolo Orano (born 15 June 1875 in Rome – died 7 April 1945 in Padula) was an Italian psychologist, politician and writer. Orano began his political career as a revolutionary syndicalist in Italian Socialist Party. He later became a leading figure within the National Fascist Party.\n\nOrano was born in 1875 in Rome to a local father and a Sardinian mother. He learned literature and philosophy at University of Rome and graduated in 1898. In the next year he began teaching philosophy high schools, including in Siena, Senigallia and Tivoli. He also worked with various publishers.\n\nOrano began his political career as one of a number of leading syndicalist thinkers associated with the Italian Socialist Party at the turn of the century. His estrangement from the Socialists began in 1905 when he resigned his position at the newspaper \"Avanti!\" following the dismissal of syndicalist Enrico Leone.\n\nAlong with fellow syndicalists Arturo Labriola and Robert Michels, as well as nationalist Enrico Corradini, Orano became part of a group of intellectuals who followed the ideals of Georges Sorel. To this end he founded his own weekly newspaper, \"La Lupa\", in October 1910. It came to represent the first collaboration between syndicalists like Orano and nationalists like Enrico Corradini. Benito Mussolini would later claim that this paper was an influence on his political ideas.\nOrano became a strong critic of democracy, seeing it as the cause of Italy's ills and his rhetoric, along with that of fellow syndicalists such as Filippo Corridoni and Angelo Olivetti, was by 1914 very similar to that coming from the Italian Nationalist Association. Orano supported the First World War, ostensibly because he hoped that it would strengthen both the bourgeoisie and proletariat and thus hasten the process of class conflict and revolution. However his views caused considerable controversy within the syndicalist movement and helped to bring about its fragmentation as many of those associated with the movement, in particular Leone, were anti-war. By the end of the war his positions were largely indistinguishable from those of the nationalists.\n\nOrano soon moved over to the Fascists and during the March on Rome he served as Mussolini's chief of staff, whilst also occupying a seat on the Grand Council of the party. He enjoyed a high-profile under the fascist government, serving in the parliament and holding the post of rector of the University of Perugia.\n\nHis most notable contribution to fascism was his anti-semitism and he was the author in 1937 of the book \"The Jews in Italy\". The book was influenced by Bernard Lazare in so much as it accepted his thesis that the activities of the Jews themselves helped to cause anti-semitism, although it made no reference to Lazare's refutations of the prejudice. In the book Orano expressed affection for some individual Jews, notably Ettore Ovazza, but nonetheless the book helped to legitimise anti-Semitism as a part of Italian fascism and laid the groundwork for later persecutions. Despite this the non-biological nature of his anti-semitism meant that he did not go far enough for Giovanni Preziosi, who attacked Orano's work in his journal \"La Vita Italiana\".\n\nCaptured in 1944 he was held along with many fellow fascist officials at a prison camp at Padula where he died the following year following complications with a peptic ulcer haemorrhage.\n\nAs well as his political writing Orano was also noted for his psychological and philosophical work. His 1897 book \"Cristo e Quirino\" criticised Christianity from a Nietzschean perspective, suggesting that it told people to accept their lot in life and thus solidified hierarchy in society. Mussolini would later use these arguments about the parallels between the Roman Catholic Church and the Roman Empire, and thus common ground between fascism and Catholicism, during his negotiations with Pius XI, much to horror of the pontiff who considered the very notion heretical.\n\nHis 1902 book \"Psicologia Sociale\" sought to attack transpersonal psychology and instead argued in favour of materialism and inductive reasoning that took into account the works of Karl Marx and Charles Darwin.\n"}
{"id": "2056590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2056590", "title": "Rajm", "text": "Rajm\n\nRajm () is an Arabic word that means \"stoning\". It is commonly used to refer to the \"Hudud\" punishment wherein an organized group throws stones at a convicted individual until that person dies. Under some versions of Islamic law (Sharia), it is the prescribed punishment in cases of adultery committed by a married man or married woman. The conviction requires a confession from either the adulterer/adulteress, or the testimony of two/three witnesses (as prescribed by the Quran in Surah an-Nur verse 4), or pregnancy outside of marriage.\n\nThe punishment of stoning/\"Rajm\" or capital punishment for adultery is unique in Islamic law in that it conflicts with the Qur'anic prescription for premarital and extramarital sex (zina) found in Surah an-Nur,2: \"The woman and the man guilty of adultery or fornication — flog each of them with a hundred stripes\". \nFor this reason some minority Muslim sects such as Kharijites found in Iraq, and Islamic Modernists such as the Quranists disagree with the legality of \"rajm\".\n\nHowever, stoning is mentioned in multiple hadiths (reports claiming to quote what Muhammad said verbatim on various matters, which most Muslims and Islamic scholars consider an authoritative source second only to Quran as a source of religious law), and therefore most schools of Islamic jurisprudence accept it as a prescribed punishment for adultery. The punishment has been rarely applied in the history of Islam owing to the very strict evidential requirements stipulated by Islamic law.\n\nAt least a couple of sources (Sadakat Kadri, Max Rodenbeck) have noted that while popular in the abstract, \"rajm\" has been infrequently applied in Islamic history. Stonings were recorded just once in all the history of Ottoman Empire, and not at all in Syria during Muslim rule;) Techniques used to \"minimize the possibility\" that the pregnancy of a single woman would be considered evidence of zina and make justice more merciful, included \"fantastic presumptions\" about the length of the human gestation period. Classical Hanafite jurists ruling that rather than nine months, it could last for up to two years, Shafi'ites four, and Malikites as long as five years. Rashidun Caliph Umar once acquitted a pregnant single mother on the grounds that she was a \"heavy sleeper\" who had had \"intercourse without realizing it\".\n\nAccording to journalist Max Rodenbeck,\n\nIn almost all cases where it has been applied in recent years, stoning has taken place in tribal or rebel areas beyond the control of central governments—the Taliban in Afghanistan, ISIS in Iraq, and Boko Haram in Nigeria being cases in point. Out of the world’s forty-nine Muslim-majority states, six retain the punishment in deference to Islamic legal tradition, ... Of these countries only Iran, which officially placed a moratorium on stoning in 2002 but still gives leeway to individual judges, has actually carried it out.\nSaudi Arabia executed four people by stoning during the 1980s.\nAs of 2005, stoning punishments have been considered or handed down in Nigeria and Somalia for the crimes of adultery and sodomy (homosexuality). Since the Sharia legal system was introduced in northern Nigeria in 2000, more than a dozen Muslims have been sentenced to death by stoning but none have actually been stoned. In one case, an appellate court in the state of Sokoto overturned a stoning sentence on the basis that divorced defendant might not have conceived her child in zina (fornication) because she may have been carrying her baby for as long as five years. Another Nigerian state court of appeal assessed the upper limit of gestation at seven years.\n\nIn Pakistan \"more than three decades of official Islamization have so far failed to produce a single actual stoning...\" Iran officially placed a moratorium on stoning in 2002 but still gives leeway to individual judges to sentence \"rajm\". The failure to carry out sentences of \"rajm\" has been blamed on publicity and pressure from internal and international human rights groups, which considers stoning a form of execution by torture.\n\nFrom July 2014 to February 2015, at least 15 people (six men and nine women) were executed (not all by \"rajm\") by Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) in Syria for the crimes of adultery or homosexuality, according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights.\n\n'Umar, the second caliph, is reported to have stated that \"the Verse of Rajm\" was once recited as part of the Quran. \nAnother explanation for why rajm is not mentioned in the Quran comes from a report credited to Muhammad's wife Aisha:\n[Narrated 'Aisha] \"The verse of the stoning and of suckling an adult ten times were revealed, and they were (written) on a paper and kept under my bed. When the messenger of Allah expired and we were preoccupied with his death, a goat entered and ate away the paper.\"\n\n(Some Muslim scholars have rejected this hadith as Mawdoo (fabricated) because the common routes of transmission of it either contain narrators charged with dishonesty when disclosing their sources, or (in the case of the version in Ibn Hanbal's Musnad) conflict with all versions of the hadith which bear authentic routes — none of which mention the goat eating the piece of paper.).\n\nNumerous 'sahih' (reliable, according to Sunni scholars) hadiths (legendary tales about Muhammad and his companions), however, describe stoning. One is the Hadith of Umar's speech of forbidding Mut'ah, Muhammad's last Hajj sermon and the \"Hadith\" of the Verse of Stoning.\n\nThe hadith Sahih Bukhari, the book most trusted after Quran by most Muslims, has several sunnah regarding stoning. For example,\n\nSahih Muslim Book 17 has several hadith regarding Stoning specifically (17:4191-4209, and 17:4914). For example,\nOther hadiths also mention stoning as the punishment for adultery.\nThe early Islamic era text Musannaf of Abd al-Razzaq, in the chapter on \"Rajm\", lists 70 hadith reports of stoning linked to Muhammad, and 100 to his companions and other authorities.\n\nThe reliability of Hadith is disputed. Qur'an only Muslims reject the Hadith, and as a consequence the rajm punishment as well.\n\n\"Rajm\", sometimes spelled as \"Rajam\", has been extensively discussed in the texts of early, medieval and modern era Islamic jurisprudence (fiqhs).\n\nPersons who accuse a woman of adultery but are not able to bring four witnesses—a crime known as \"Qadhf\", القذف —are liable to a punishment of 80 lashes and to be unacceptable as witnesses unless they repent and reform. The testimony of a man who accuses his own spouse without any other witnesses may be accepted if they swear by God four times that they are telling the truth with a fifth oath to incur God's condemnation if they be lying. In this case, if his spouse counterswears, no punishment will be enforced.\nOne of the widely followed Islamic legal commentaries, \"Al-Muwatta\" by Malik ibn Anas, state that contested pregnancy is sufficient proof of adultery and the woman must be stoned to death.\n\nHanafi jurists have held that the accused must be a \"muhsan\" at the time of religiously disallowed sex to be punished by \"Rajm\" (stoning). A \"Muhsan\" is an adult, free, Muslim who has previously enjoyed legitimate sexual relations in matrimony, regardless of whether the marriage still exists. In other words, stoning does not apply to someone who was never married in his or her life (only lashing in public is the mandatory punishment in such cases).\n\nFor evidence, Hanafi fiqh accepts the following: self-confession, or testimony of four male witnesses (female witnesses are not acceptable). Hanafi Islamic law literature specifies two types of stoning. One, when the punishment is based on \"bayyina\", or concrete evidence (four male witnesses). In this case the person is bound, a pit dug, the bound person placed and partially buried inside the pit so that he or she may not escape, thereafter the public stoning punishment is executed. A woman sentenced to stoning must be partially buried up to her chest. The first stones are thrown by the witnesses and the accuser, thereafter the Muslim community present, stated Abū Ḥanīfa and other Hanafi scholars. In second type of stoning, when the punishment is based on self-confession, the stoning is to be performed without digging a pit or partially burying the person. In this case, the qadi (judge) should throw the first stone before other Muslims join in. Further, if the person flees, the person is allowed to leave.\n\nHanafi scholars specify the stone size to be used for \"Rajm\", to be the size of one's hand. It should not be too large to cause death too quickly, nor too small to extend only pain.\n\nHanafites have traditionally held that the witnesses should throw the first stones in case the conviction was brought about by witnesses, and the \"qadi\" must throw the first stones in case the conviction was brought about by a confession.\n\nThe Shafii school literature has the same Islamic law analysis as the Hanafi. However, it recommends, that the first stone be thrown by the Imam or his deputy in all cases, followed by the Muslim community witnessing the stoning punishment.\n\nHanbali jurist Ibn Qudamah states, \"Muslim jurists are unanimous on the fact that stoning to death is a specified punishment for the married adulterer and adulteress. The punishment is recorded in number of traditions and the practice of Muhammad stands as an authentic source supporting it. This is the view held by all Companions, Successors and other Muslim scholars with the exception of Kharijites.\"\n\nHanbali Islamic law sentences all forms of consensual but religiously illegal sex as punishable with \"Rajm\". However, Hanabali scholars insist that homosexuality among men must be punished by beheading, instead of \"Rajm\" as recommended by the Maliki madhab of Islam.\n\nMaliki school of jurisprudence (fiqh) holds that stoning is the required punishment for illegal sex by a married or widowed person, as well as for any form of homosexual relations among men. Malik ibn Anas, founded of Maliki fiqh, considered pregnancy in an unmarried woman as a conclusive proof of zina. He also stated that contested pregnancy is also sufficient proof of adultery and any Muslim woman who is pregnant by a man who she is not married to, at the time of getting pregnant, must be stoned to death. Later Maliki Muslim scholars admitted the concept of \"sleeping embryo\", where a divorced woman could escape the stoning punishment, if she remained unmarried and became pregnant anytime within five years of her divorce, and it was assumed that she was impregnated by her previous husband but the embryo remained dormant for five years.\n\nAll Sunni fiqhs, as well as Volume 7 of the Shi'ite hadith, \"The Book of Legal Penalties\" in Kitab al-Kafi, declare stoning as the required punishment for sex that is not allowed under Sharia.\n\nIn contrast to Sunni schools, Shia Islamic law, in \"Rajm\" cases, allows some of the witnesses to be women but considers the witness of a woman as half as valid as a man's. Thus, before an accused is sentenced to \"Rajm\" in Shia system, the witnesses may be four men, three men and two women, two men and four women, one man and six women, but witnesses must include at least one man. Furthermore, Shia jurists grant discretionary powers to the judge in cases of homosexuality, to sentence the accused to death by sword, \"Rajm\" (death by stoning), death by throwing from a high wall, or burning the accused to death.\n\nThere is disagreement among modern Islamic thinkers as to the applicability of stoning for adultery. While religious texts often give examples both with and without stoning, the Quran does not prescribe stoning as a punishment for any crime, mentioning only lashing as punishment for adultery. However most scholars maintain that there is sufficient evidence from hadiths to derive a ruling. The vast majority of Muslims consider hadiths, which describe the words, conduct and example set by Muhammad during his life, as a source of law and religious authority second only to the Quran. They consider sahih hadiths to be a valid source of Sharia, justifying their belief on Quranic verse 33.21, and other verses.\n\nEnayatullah Asad Subhani argues that \"Rajm\" is not the punishment of the fornication, as generally been understood, and it is not among the \"Hudood\" either. His book Haqeeqat-e-Rajm was widely criticized by the ulama as he had tried to clear doubts against the punishments prescribed by Islam for different crimes. \nJaved Ahmad Ghamidi postulates that Quranic verses prescribe \"Rajm\" only for those who habitually commit fornication as prostitutes do, which then constitute \"mischief in the land\" that is punishable by death according to Quranic verses 5:33-34. However, many traditional scholars of Islam reject most of Ghamidi's thoughts and opinions as being deviant from mainstream Islam.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30872447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30872447", "title": "Ramón Sampedro", "text": "Ramón Sampedro\n\nRamón Sampedro Cameán (5 January 1943 – 12 January 1998) was a Spanish seaman and writer. Sampedro became a quadriplegic at the age of 25 (23 August 1968), following a diving accident, and fought for his right to an assisted suicide for the next 29 years.\n\nAs a young man he jumped into the sea from rocks near his home, a fishing village in the northern Spanish region of Galicia. Misjudging the water's depth, he struck his head on the bottom. He sustained a complete spinal cord injury, leaving him paralyzed from the neck down.\n\nSampedro tried Spain's lower courts, its higher courts, and even the European Commission on Human Rights in Strasbourg to end his life. His argument hinged on the fact that he was sure of his decision to die. However, owing to his paralysis, he was physically unable to commit suicide without help. He argued that suicide was a right that he was being denied, and he sought legal advice concerning his right to receive assistance to end his life, first in the courts of Spain, where his case attracted country-wide attention. Eventually, his fight became known worldwide.\n\nSampedro died on Monday 12 January 1998 in Boiro, Spain, from potassium cyanide poisoning. Several days later, a close friend of Sampedro, Ramona Maneiro, was arrested and charged with assisting his suicide. Sampedro had divided the elements required to complete his suicide into individual tasks, each small enough that no single person could be convicted of assisting the suicide process entirely. Maneiro was released due to lack of evidence. No further charges were ever filed in connection with Sampedro's death.\n\nSeven years later, after the statute of limitations had expired, Maneiro, speaking on a Spanish talk show, admitted to providing Sampedro with a cyanide-laced drink and a straw. She said \"I did it for love.\" She also said she had turned on the video camera that recorded Sampedro's last words before he drank the poison and that she was in the room, behind the camera.\n\nHe left an open letter to the judges and the society and caused an ethical turmoil in the Spanish society which led to a Senatorial Committee on Euthanasia in 1999.\n\nThe story of Sampedro's life and death was made into a Spanish film, \"Mar adentro\" (2004), directed by Alejandro Amenábar, in which he was portrayed by Javier Bardem. The movie drew international attention and won the Best Foreign Language Film at the 77th Academy Awards.\n\nSampredo wrote a book before he died, titled \"Cartas desde el infierno\". It includes a collection of poems, short essays, and reflections on life from Sampedro’s point of view. After the release of \"Mar adentro\", it was edited again. , the book was sold 100.000 times.\n\nSpanish singer-songwriter Andres Suarez wrote a song inspired by Sampedro's life, titled \"Marinero,\" which was included in his 2007 album Maneras de romper una ola.\n\n"}
{"id": "4029510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4029510", "title": "Rao Asthan", "text": "Rao Asthan\n\nRao Asthan (died April 15, 1291) was a Rajput of Rathore clan. His father was Rao Sheoji and his mother was a Chavdi Rajputani. \n\nHe conquered Khed from Guhilotes and consequently his descendants bore the patronymic Khedecha Rathores. In 1291 A.D., Jalaludin Khilji alais Feroze Shah II attacked Pali. Rao Asthan reached Pali from Khed} and met the Feroze Shah's army. He died fighting the Feroze Shah's forces on 15 April 1291.\n\nAsthan had eight sons: Rao Doohad, Rao Jopsa, Rao Dhandhul, Rao Hirnak, Rao Pohad, Rao Khipsa, Rao Aasal and Rao Chachig.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6126205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6126205", "title": "René Le Bègue", "text": "René Le Bègue\n\nRené Le Bègue (15 January 1914 – 24 February 1946) was a Parisian-born French race car driver in Rally and Grand Prix motor racing. In his first year of top level racing, his best showing came at the 1936 Spa 24 Hours endurance race when he drove a Delahaye to a 2nd-place finish. In 1937 he and his co-pilot Julio Quinlin won the Monte Carlo Rally driving a Delahaye. That year Le Bègue also won the Coupe de Vitesse at the Autodrome de Montlhéry driving a Talbot-Lago T150 and had several top-three finishes. He then teamed up with André Morel to claim victory in the 1938 12 hours of Paris endurance race for sports cars. In 1939 he finished 3rd in the French Grand Prix behind the dominant Auto Union Silver Arrows then went on to win the Grand Prix du Comminges. The following year, Le Bègue traveled to the United States to compete in the 1940 Indianapolis 500. Driving a Maserati for the American/French owner Lucy O'Reilly Schell, he started in the last row in 31st position but drove to a 10th-place finish.\n\nRené Le Bègue continued racing until the German occupation of France during World War II when he joined the Free French Forces. With the war over, in 1946 he prepared to return to the racing scene and was elected vice-president of the French Drivers Association (AGACI, \"Association Générale des Amicales et Coureurs Indépendants\"). However, early that year before the season started the thirty-two-year-old Le Bègue was accidentally asphyxiated by gas leaking from a defective water heater in his bathroom. The 9 June 1946 Grand Prix race at Saint-Cloud, won by Raymond Sommer, was named the \"René Le Bègue Cup\" in his memory.\n\n"}
{"id": "13481097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13481097", "title": "Roasting jack", "text": "Roasting jack\n\nA roasting jack is a machine which rotates meat roasting on a spit. It can also be called a spit jack, a spit engine or a turnspit, although this name can also refer to a human turning the spit, or a turnspit dog. Cooking meat on a spit dates back at least to the 1st century BC, but at first spits were turned by human power. In Britain, starting in the Tudor period, dog-powered turnspits were used; the dog ran in a treadmill linked to the spit by belts and pulleys. Other forms of roasting jacks included the steam jack, driven by steam, the smoke jack, driven by hot gas rising from the fire, and the bottle jack or clock jack, driven by weights or springs.\n\nA great majority of the jacks used prior to the 19th century were powered by a descending weight, often made of stone or iron, sometimes of lead. Although most commonly referred to as spit engines or jacks, these were also termed weight or clock jacks (clock jacks was the more common term in North America).\n\nEarlier jacks of this type had a train of two arbors (spindles), later ones had a more efficient three arbor train. In the case of British examples, almost without exception, the governor or flywheel was set above the engine (as opposed to being located within the frame) and to one side; to the right for two train and to the left for three train engines.\n\nEuropean jacks are characterised by a flywheel set centrally and often within the frame; commonly the highest part of the frame has a bell-like arch that the shaft for the flywheel passes through.\n\nA steam-powered roasting jack was first described by the Ottoman polymath and engineer Taqi al-Din in his \"Al-Turuq al-samiyya fi al-alat al-ruhaniyya\" (\"The Sublime Methods of Spiritual Machines\"), in 1551. A steam-powered turnspit was also briefly mentioned by John Wilkins in his book \"Mathematical Magick\" (1648). A steam-driven jack was patented by the American clockmaker John Bailey II in 1792, and steam jacks were later commercially available in the United States.\n\nLeonardo da Vinci sketched a smoke-jack in the form of a turbine with four vanes. Smoke-jacks were also illustrated in Vittorio Zonca's book of machines (1607), and in Wilkins's \"Mathematical Magick\". The 1826 \"A Treatise of Mechanics\" describes a smoke-jack:\nSmoke-jack is an engine used for the same purpose as the common jack; and is so called from its being moved by means of the smoke, or rarefied air, ascending the chimney, and striking against the sails of the horizontal wheel AB (plate XXI. fig 1.), which being inclined to the horizon, is moved about the axis of the wheel, together with the pinion C, which carries the wheels D and E; and E carries the chain F, which turns the spit. The wheel AB should be placed in the narrow part of the chimney, where the motion of the smoke is swiftest, and where also the greatest part of it must strike upon the sails.—The force of this machine depends on the draught of the chimney, and the strength of the fire.\nSmoke-jacks are sometimes moved by means of spiral flyers coiling about a vertical axle; and at other times by a vertical wheel with sails like the float-boards of a mill: but the above is the more customary construction.\n\nA bottle-jack was a clockwork motor in a brass shell, shaped like a bottle; it was introduced in the late 18th Century and in many case replaced the earlier and much more simple dangle spit.\n\n"}
{"id": "7094393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7094393", "title": "RoboCop (character)", "text": "RoboCop (character)\n\nRoboCop is a fictional robotically enhanced Detroit police officer designated as OCP Crime Prevention Unit 001, and is the main protagonist in the film series of the same name. The character begins as a human Detroit Police Officer named Alexander James \"Alex\" Murphy, who is killed in the line of duty by a vicious crime gang. Subsequently, Murphy is transformed into the cyborg entity RoboCop by the megacorporation Omni Consumer Products (OCP). He is referred to as Robo by creators Edward Neumeier and Michael Miner in their original screenplay.\n\nEdward Neumeier's script and idea was rejected by many studios, and even the name was thought as \"unsuitable\". The character was inspired from sources as varied as Iron Man and Judge Dredd.\n\nOCP holds a contract to fund and run the Detroit Police Department. Security Concepts is the division that provides oversight for the police. In order to supplement the police force that is overwhelmed with crime, Security Concepts begins developing robotic law enforcement units. Originally, the Senior President Dick Jones develops a fully robotic unit called ED (Enforcement Droid)-209, with plans to secure a long-term contract with the military for replacement parts and service. However, ED-209 severely malfunctions during the simulation of a disarm-and-arrest-procedure and kills the test subject, even though he dropped his weapon. Ambitious junior executive Bob Morton takes this as a justified reason to go over Jones's head and pitch his \"RoboCop Program\" directly to OCP's CEO, the \"Old Man\".\n\nMorton and his team restructure the police force to place prime candidates with high aptitude and experience in law enforcement into high crime areas where death in the line of duty is much higher. Once a death occurs, the deceased officer's body will be used in the construction of a cyborg law enforcement unit, since they have already signed waivers allowing OCP to do whatever they pleased with their corpses. This unit will be afforded the fastest reflexes made possible by modern technology, a memory assisted by an on-board computer, and programmed with a lifetime experience of on-the-street law enforcement.\n\nMurphy is one of these candidates. He is partnered with Officer Anne Lewis, a veteran herself of Old Detroit, plagued by crime boss Clarence Boddicker and his gang. One day, Murphy and Lewis are on patrol when Boddicker hits a pharmaceutical company. They give chase to the gang's panel truck, and after a rolling shootout, chase the truck to an abandoned steel mill. As they split up to search for the gang, Murphy is captured by three other gang members: Emil Antonowsky, Leon Nash and Steve Minh. When Boddicker shows up, he asks Murphy for his opinion of him, to which Murphy defiantly and honestly tells him, \"Buddy, I think you're slime.\" While Lewis is incapacitated after henchman Joe Cox knocks her off a catwalk, Boddicker shoots off Murphy's right hand with a shotgun. The gang members then take turns firing their shotguns, shearing off Murphy's right arm and blasting holes in every part of his body. Amazingly, Murphy is still alive on his knees afterwards (perhaps due to the protective body armor covering his upper body). Boddicker then walks up and executes him with a gunshot to the head. Murphy is rushed to the emergency room, where the doctors try in vain to keep him alive. Because of Murphy's stellar record and near-perfect psychological profile, portions of his body are subsequently used to create the prototype RoboCop designated as OCP Crime Prevention Unit 001.\n\nBecause he is pronounced dead, the body is seized by OCP, citing the release forms Murphy signed when he joined the police force. The technicians of the RoboCop Program, led by Morton, take what is left of Murphy's face and portions of his cerebrum and cerebellum and apply them to a cybernetic body, in effect resurrecting Alex Murphy as RoboCop.\n\nRoboCop quickly proves to be an effective weapon against crime, but unbeknownst to Morton is that RoboCop begins to remember his past life as Murphy, starting with his death at the hands of Boddicker and his gang. Enraged at having had his life stolen from him, RoboCop embarks on a personal quest for vengeance as he hunts down and apprehends Boddicker's gang, resulting in the gang's arrest. RoboCop also tracks down OCP's senior executive, Dick Jones, in an attempt to make him pay for aiding Boddicker. However, RoboCop's classified 'Directive 4' comes into effect, preventing him from arresting Jones, and he is subsequently damaged by the ED-209 as well as Lt. Hedgecock and his SWAT team, though a few SWATs refuse to follow the order. After enduring a massed attack by SWAT, RoboCop is rescued by Lewis who was alerted by the few SWATs to LT. Hedgecock's treachery. The two hide in an abandoned steel mill after they escape, during which RoboCop confides to Lewis about his memories of his past life. He also uses a drill brought by Lewis to remove his headpiece, showing how he has his \"Alex Murphy\" face stretched over it. The two are attacked by Boddicker's gang, commissioned by Jones to destroy the cyborg after he realizes that his entire confession of ordering Morton's murder has been recorded. The final confrontation with Boddicker himself ends with RoboCop violently stabbing him in the throat with the computer data spike installed in his fist. RoboCop confronts Jones in the middle of an OCP board meeting, during which Jones takes the \"Old Man\" hostage. After admitting that he can take no action due to Directive 4, the \"Old Man\" fires Jones, allowing RoboCop to shoot him, since he is no longer an OCP employee and his orders on the Detroit police force to destroy him is put to an end. Complimenting RoboCop on his shooting skills, The Old Man asks him his name. Robocop smiles before answering, \"Murphy\".\n\nA year later, OCP attempts to replicate the success they had with Murphy with a new RoboCop Program; however, all of the candidates selected go insane upon activation and commit suicide or harmed others, due to the severe mental strain of their prostheses. RoboCop is captured, torn apart by the drug lord Cain and his gang and subsequently thrown in front of the police station in an effort to send them a message. He is reconstructed with numerous other directives that render him virtually ineffective on the street, but he is able to reset his programming and erase his directives by giving himself a massive electric shock, leaving him free to lead a counter-attack against Cain.\n\nTo find a suitable personality for the new Robocop Program, Dr. Juliette Faxx turns to the criminal element in Cain, reasoning that someone with strong megalomania would relish the power of the new body instead of rejecting the new-found life, just as Murphy came through the process due to his strong sense of justice. Her plan is to use his addiction to the drug Nuke to control him. Upon his death, Cain's brain and spinal column are harvested and placed in a larger, more powerful cybernetic body, referred to as RoboCop 2. Ultimately, Cain's addiction to Nuke proves to be his undoing, as Lewis tempts him with a vial of the drug long enough for RoboCop to attack Cain from behind and remove his brain casing from the robot body. RoboCop smashes the brain on the pavement, eliminating Cain for good.\n\nOmni Consumer Products (OCP), on the verge of bankruptcy, creates an armed force called the Urban Rehabilitators (\"Rehabs\" for short), under the command of Paul McDaggett (John Castle). Ostensibly its purpose is to combat rising crime in Old Detroit, augmenting the ranks of the Detroit Police in apprehending violent criminals. In reality it has been set up to forcibly relocate the residents of Cadillac Heights, killing some of them (including the parents of Nikko, a Japanese-American computer whiz kid) in the process. The police force is gradually superseded by the Rehabs, and violent crime begins to spiral out of control. The Delta City dream of the former OCP CEO, \"Old Man\", lives on with the help of the Japanese zaibatsu Kanemitsu Corporation, which has bought a controlling stake in the organisation. Kanemitsu (Mako) sees the potential in the citywide redevelopment, and moves forward with the plans to remove the current citizens. The company develops and uses its own ninja robots (called \"Otomo\") to help McDaggett and the OCP President (Rip Torn) overcome the resistance of the anti-OCP militia forces.\n\nWhen RoboCop (Burke) and partner Anne Lewis (Allen) try to defend civilians from the Rehabs one night, Lewis is mortally wounded by McDaggett and eventually dies. Unable to fight back because of the 'Fourth Directive', RoboCop is saved by members of a resistance and eventually joins them. Due to severe damage sustained in the shoot-out RoboCop's systems efficiency plummets, and he asks the resistance to summon Dr. Lazarus, one of the scientists who created him. Upon arrival she begins to treat him, deleting the Fourth Directive in the process. During an earlier raid on an armoury the resistance has picked up a jet-pack prototype, originally intended for RoboCop's use, which Lazarus modifies and upgrades.\n\nAfter recovering from his injuries RoboCop conducts a one-man campaign against the Rehabs. He finds McDaggett and attempts to subdue him, but McDaggett is able to escape. McDagget then obtains information from a disgruntled resistance member (Stephen Root) regarding the location of the resistance fighters base. The base is then attacked by the Rehabs and most of the resistance members are either killed or taken prisoner. Nikko escapes with the help of Lazarus before she is captured and taken to the OCP headquarters as a prisoner.\n\nRoboCop returns to the rebel base to find it abandoned. One of the Otomo ninjabots then arrives and attacks him. RoboCop experiences another power drain and his side-arm is destroyed, but eventually he is able to overcome his opponent. Meanwhile, Nikko infiltrates the OCP building and assists Lazarus broadcast an improvised video, revealing that OCP is behind the outbreaks of criminality in the city and implicating them in the removal and termination of the Cadillac Heights residents. The broadcast causes OCP's stock to plunge dramatically, driving the company into total ruin.\n\nMcDaggett decides to execute an all-out strike against Cadillac Heights with the help of the Detroit City police department, but the outraged police officers refused to comply and instead defect to the resistance. As a result, McDaggett turns to hiring street gangs and hooligans to assist with his plans.\n\nHaving heard Lazarus' broadcast Robocop takes to the air using the jet-pack. As the combined forces of the Rehabs and street gangs are about to wipe out the rebels and Detroit Police, RoboCop mounts an aerial assault on the attackers, leading to their defeat. He then proceeds to the OCP building and confronts the waiting McDaggett. Robocop is then attacked, and nearly defeated, by two Otomo robots. Nikko and Lazarus succeed in reprogramming them using a wireless link from a laptop computer, however, forcing them to attack each other. This triggers a timed self-destruct sequence in both units, forcing Robocop to flee. Igniting his jet-pack the flaming discharge hits McDaggett's leg, immobilising him. Robocop escapes with Nikko and Lazarus, leaving McDaggett to perish in the blast while attempting to stop the self-destruct devices.\n\nAs Old Detroit is being cleaned up Kanemitsu arrives and confronts RoboCop and his group, while his translator (Doug Yasuda) tells the OCP president on Kanemitsu's behalf that he is fired. Kanemitsu then bows to RoboCop. The deposed OCP President turns to Robocop and says \"Well, I gotta hand it to ya... what do they call you? Murphy, is it?\" RoboCop replies, saying \"My friends call me Murphy. You call me RoboCop.\"\n\nThirteen years after the first RoboCop was activated, OCP revives the RoboCop Program yet again. After the death of Delta City Security Commander John T. Cable, OCP uses portions of his body to create Crime Prevention Unit 002, moving back to the original elements of Morton's RoboCop Program. In a move of Corporate Espionage, this new RoboCop is activated in an attempt to eliminate his predecessor so that the conglomerate could freely participate in questionable activities. This programming is later overcome by Cable, who OCP had not remembered was a former friend, and partner, of Alex Murphy, and the two instead moved against OCP.\n\nIn this reboot of the series, Alex Murphy and his partner, Jack Lewis, are attempting to arrest crime lord Antoine Vallon, unaware that he has contacts inside the department. When Lewis gets shot and is hospitalized after an undercover deal goes wrong, Murphy is badly injured when Vallon detonates a car bomb in his driveway; a subsequent medical evaluation states that Murphy has third-degree burns over eighty percent of his body, serious spinal damage left him paralysed from the waist down, his left arm and leg had to be amputated, serious damage to the optical nerves in his left eye left him blind in that eye, and he was likely to be deaf. Faced with this damage, Murphy's wife agrees for him to be made part of the new Robocop program as part of a campaign by OmniCorp's Director, Raymond Sellars, to overturn the Dreyfus Act, which prevents robots being used for law enforcement purposes in American streets, by putting a human in the robotic body.\n\nMurphy is virtually completely reconstructed with a cybernetic body; his face, central nervous systems, circulatory systems and respiratory systems are the largest part of him left intact, along with his right hand, but various chips have been implanted into his brain, as well as at least one eye being replaced, along with the rest of his body. However, he proves to operate at a slower rate than the drone counterparts in field simulations due to his natural hesitation when making judgements in the field. Attempting to get around this, Dr. Norton, the cyberneticist responsible for creating Murphy's implants, has a new chip installed in Murphy's brain that compensates for this by taking control of his responses in action. When faced with his public debut, Murphy is so overwhelmed by his emotions that Dr. Norton is forced to shut down Murphy's ability to feel emotions to prevent a psychological breakdown.\n\nWith his emotions shut down, Murphy proves to be an effective detective and police officer, quickly tracking down assorted unarrested suspects through his access to various security systems. His inability to emotionally connect results in him avoiding contact with his wife Clara and son David. When Clara confronts Murphy about his distance, it causes the reversal of the effects of Dr. Norton's emotion augmentation, prompting Murphy to track down Vallon and his police contacts, effectively solving his own murder, only to be shut down when he attempts to force a confession out of the police chief after learning that she was one of Vallon's contacts. When Sellars attempts to use this discovery of police corruption to have RoboCops put in action on a country-wide scale and destroy the original, Norton has a crisis of conscience and not only reactivates Murphy, but admits what was done to him psychologically during the program. With the death of Sellars, Murphy is reconstructed by Norton and allowed contact with his family again.\n\nPolice officer Alex Murphy is serving with the Detroit Police Department when its funding and administration is taken over by the private corporation Omni Consumer Products. Murphy is a devout Irish Catholic and a mild-mannered family man, living with his wife, Ellen (Nancy in the television series, Clara in the 2014 remake), and his son, Jimmy (James Daniel \"Jimmy\" Murphy in (see ep. 06, \"Zone Five\"), David in the 2014 remake). Murphy starts mimicking his son's television hero, \"T.J. Lazer\", by twirling his gun whenever he took down a criminal. Murphy's psychological profile states that he was top of his class at the police academy and possesses a fierce sense of duty. This dedication explains why Murphy exhibits none of the negative attitudes and statements shared by his fellow officers when he is transferred to the Metro West Precinct, the most violent area of Old Detroit. The police dissatisfaction is the result of OCP's deliberate mismanagement, and penny-pinching, which led to the deaths of many police officers in the precinct.\n\nAlex Murphy's police file (from the first RoboCop film) reads as follows:\n\n\"OD5839484E09\"\n\"Murphy, Alex J.\"\n\"548 Primrose Ln,\"\n\"Detroit, MI\"\n\"Grade: 1 00 33\"\n\nDECEASED\n\n\"Service: 7\" \n\"Merit:\"\n\"Miranda Award\"\n\"GD Conduct\"\n\"BRVRY\"\n\nRoboCop is programmed to follow three main \"prime directives\" (accompanied by a mysterious fourth) based on the \"To Protect and to Serve\" motto of the Los Angeles Police Department and many other police forces, and which are comparable with Isaac Asimov's \"Three Laws of Robotics\".\n\nThe First Directive is the \"moral\" directive programmed: it establishes RoboCop as a police civil servant in the series. RoboCop must help the civilians in any ways possible; and must protect their rights to life, privacy, and property from any lethal or non-lethal harm. This disables him from prosecuting, arresting, trespassing or harming innocent civilians without warrant, or act in any way against the public's trust. If he detects innocent bystanders, his fellow officers or criminals of minor misdemeanors are attacked; it then activates the Second Directive and Third Directive.\n\nThe Second Directive is the \"ethical\" directive programmed: it establishes Robocop must exercise duty to rescue, non-lethality and the presumption of innocence at all times. Lethal-force is authorized only during life-threatening situations, and only against criminals with a history of serious felonies (etc. murder).\n\nThe Third Directive is the \"legal\" directive programmed: it establishes RoboCop as a law enforcement officer, and is obligated to \"protect and serve\" as required by law. It also forbids strike action or to request termination of employment, and disables him from directly assaulting, arresting, resisting, impreding or harming a police officer. In \"RoboCop 2,\" this is specifically what prevents Murphy from killing Boddicker during a drug raid: while Boddicker had been shooting at RoboCop minutes before, he then put his gun away and tried to flee, but RoboCop caught up with him and started severely beating him (based on echoes of memory of what Boddicker did to Murphy). The badly wounded and now unarmed Boddicker begs for his life, pleads that he surrenders, and that RoboCop can't kill him because he's a police officer – which activates the Third Directive, making Robocop take him in alive back to the police precinct.\n\nThe Fourth Directive is Jones' contribution to RoboCop's psychological profile, deliberately programmed as \"hidden\" and is inaccessible by RoboCop. This directive renders him physically incapable of arresting or injuring any senior OCP employee: \"Any attempt to arrest a senior OCP employee results in shutdown.\". Jones informs RoboCop that he is an OCP product and not an ordinary police officer. As a result, RoboCop is unable to act against the corrupt Jones until the Old Man terminates Jones's employment with the company, allowing RoboCop to act against him. The Fourth Directive has been erased twice, in each of the sequels. \"RoboCop 2\" sees the deletion of all of the directives; after Dr. Faxx has RoboCop reprogrammed with so many new irrelevant directives that he is nearly incapable of taking action, RoboCop is forced to subject himself to high voltage electricity to clear his database. In \"RoboCop 3,\" Directive Four is declassified and reworded as \"Never oppose an OCP officer.\" It is eliminated so that RoboCop could avenge Lewis's death.\n\nIn \"\", Directive Four was not present at all, but a saboteur instituted one which is stated as \"Terminate John T. Cable.\" In \"RoboCop: The Series\", Directive Four was also not present. At the end of \"Prime Directives\", all his directives were erased, but RoboCop stated to his son that he would do \"What I do: Serve the public trust, protect the innocent, and uphold the law,\" noting that he would keep his directives by his own free will, not through the imposition of programming.\n\nIn the 2014 film, there is no reference to the Directives, but Murphy, like the drones, is programmed to protect 'red assets' in the form of individuals wearing coded bracelets identifying themselves as assets who must be protected, with the result that he is initially unable to shoot or arrest men who are genuinely threats to him without his cybernetic systems shutting down, although he is able to override this program at the end when the OmniCorp CEO threatens to shoot his wife and son.\n\nRobocop carries guns designed for him and is equipped with enhanced reflexes, speed and strength, visual and auditory capabilities.\n\n\nRoboCop's vision has an internal zoom capability for better aim as well as tracking. RoboCop also has different vision modes but the only one that has been used in the movies was thermal vision in \"RoboCop\" and \"RoboCop 3\". His systems use a grid which is crucial to RoboCop's targeting as well as bullet trajectory (allowing him to make ricochet shots), though apparently the targeting reticle of RoboCop is internal to him, as seen in the first movie. As seen in \"RoboCop 2\", RoboCop's programming prevents him from targeting children, which allowed Hob to shoot RoboCop and escape the Nuke drug lab. He also has a recorder which can detect voice fluctuations and stress as well as play back audio/visual. This recording capability enables RoboCop to document any situation he encounters with perfect recall and unbiased neutrality, with his memory being deemed through legal agreement as admissible evidence in a court of law. As seen in \"RoboCop 2\", RoboCop possesses a directional microphone with which he can track conversations from a distance. It would seem to be very sensitive, as he can hear vehicles approaching from afar despite being indoors (as he did when he was hiding out in \"RoboCop 3\"). In the television series, he is capable of lie detection by means of a polygraph.\n\nIn the reboot film, his vision is greatly enhanced: His visor comes down when in attack mode, and is usually up when in sentry mode. He uploaded the entire database of the Detroit PD in the visor, allowing him to instantly spot criminals in the crowd (as shown during a demonstration, where he spotted a criminal and arrested him). He also has an internal microphone allowing him to speak directly with OmniCorp officials.\n\nVarious displays and interpretations range from RoboCop being mostly electronic and mechanical, while others depict his structure as balanced between the two. In the original print of the film, director Van recorded the death scene, in which crime lord Clarence Boddicker shoots Murphy in the head at point blank range, blowing out the complete rear right side of Murphy's head. This would necessitate the computer running RoboCop, with Murphy's only partial brain interacting with the computer. This scene and successive conflict structure was removed from the original release, though the back head explosion scene and destructive showing of Murphy's head is included in most successive home releases as a deleted scene. In the released theatrical version and original VHS home releases, only the front of Murphy's head and the entry wound are shown (visible when RoboCop removes his helmet in the final act). Alex Murphy's brain, nervous system and personality apparently remain intact; he is able to fully reassert himself after most of the external controlling systems are destroyed and punctuated at the end of the film, where he states his identity as \"Murphy\" rather than RoboCop.\n\nWhile all of Murphy's limbs have been replaced with \"total body prosthesis\" (as indicated with the scene where Murphy's left arm is announced as salvaged) Murphy's nervous system is maintained. The first movie lets the viewer assume that some of Murphy's organs were transplanted into the cyborg (without clearly stating which ones and to which extent), since he needs to feed on a \"rudimentary paste that sustains his organic systems\". Donald Johnson (played by Felton Perry) comments Robocop's paste \"tastes like baby food\".\n\nRoboCop's reconstructed external structure is protected by an armored shell composed of \"titanium laminated with Kevlar\" making RoboCop incredibly resilient against both bombs and bullets, as well as extreme impacts such as being hit by cars and falling off skyscrapers. In \"RoboCop\" and \"RoboCop 3\" the body armor is gray, and in \"RoboCop 2\" the armor is blue. RoboCop's hands, midsection, and neck armor are black. As demonstrated in \"RoboCop\", the body armor can sustain thousands of armor-piercing rounds before damage begins to appear on the armor. It is also highly resistant to heat, as in \"RoboCop\", he was unaffected after being caught in a gasoline station explosion and in \"RoboCop 3\" when he was briefly set aflame. His visor is made of the same material and a black strip of bulletproof anti-fog glass which protects the cranium apparatus and eyes. The visor also has an undercloth of Kevlar which protects the neck and covers up any wires etc. It should also be noted that the visor conceals most of Alex Murphy's face, and is attached with screws. When the visor is removed, only Murphy's face (which is grafted onto a completely mechanical skull) from the top of the neck up is exposed. When the helmet is removed, the back of his head exposes part of the metal casing and some minor mechanical elements.\n\nIn \"RoboCop 2\", RoboCop's right arm contained a display that alerted personnel to his health status. RoboCop's hands also contain actuators strong enough to crush every bone in a human hand (about 400 foot pounds). His right hand also contains a spike (referred to by fans as a \"dataspike\" and by production as the \"terminal strip\") which is used to retrieve or display data from any computer bank with a corresponding port. At the end of the first film, the jack is also used as a stabbing weapon against the antagonist Clarence Boddicker. RoboCop is extremely strong, able to lift the front of the average car over his head with one arm or resist the crushing effort of a car crusher, as seen in the TV series (episodes 5 and 21, respectively). He was designed to be able \"to penetrate virtually any building,\" and breaks locks with ease.\n\nIn \"Frank Miller's RoboCop\", RoboCop stores his reserve box magazines in his right wrist; this is never shown in the film series. He is seen reloading the Auto-9 in \"RoboCop 2\" with a magazine already in hand at the start of the scene. In the later television series, the holster area of his left thigh is used to store grenades, though on some schematic drawings the same area is used to store an emergency oxygen tank.\n\n\"RoboCop\" implies that only Murphy's face and brain was used in the construction of RoboCop, as Morton states that \"total body prosthesis\" was an agreed-upon parameter. It is unclear in the first two films whether or not RoboCop's human face is merely a replica of Murphy's, as it contains a scar where Boddicker shot him in the head, though he tells Murphy's wife, in \"RoboCop 2,\" that \"they made this to honor him.\" After touching it, she says, \"it's cold.\"\n\nIn \"RoboCop 3,\" Dr. Marie Lazarus, RoboCop's chief technician, stated that Murphy's face was indeed transplanted onto a mechanical skull, and that it is not a replica.\n\nIn the 2014 \"RoboCop\" reboot, RoboCop is seen in several bodies. While the original film left it unclear exactly how much of Murphy's body is left after his reconstruction, this film clearly confirms that Murphy's remaining organic parts are his head, his heart, his lungs, and his right hand, and one of his eyes has been replaced with a cybernetic implant and there are various chips in his brain to compensant for the cranial trauma and help him integrate with his cybernetic components. Initially, he is constructed in a silver body very similar to the one seen in the original films. Omnicorp CEO Raymond Sellars later has marketing executive Tom Pope conduct focus group testing on a number of other designs. One such design features a transformation function, in which RoboCop could switch from his usual, bulky shape into a slimmer, more human-like form for off-duty public relations purposes. Though Sellars rejects this concept, he selects the slimmer \"public relations\" design as RoboCop's permanent design, albeit painted black to make him more marketable. Following Sellars' death and the significant damaging of this body, RoboCop is rebuilt in his original body by Dr. Dennett Norton.\n\nUnlike in the original films, RoboCop's head is contained within a helmet, instead of his face being transplanted onto a metal skull. One feature common in every design seen in the reboot film is that the visor, which was screwed onto RoboCop's head in the original films, can move up and down freely, commonly moving over his eyes when his emotions spike and his crimefighting programs activate.\n\nIn \"RoboCop: Creating a Legend,\" a bonus feature on the \"RoboCop: 20th Anniversary\" DVD, it is stated that Murphy's face was removed from his corpse and implanted on the cyborg's head to give RoboCop a sense of identity. This psychological disruption RoboCop may have experienced is explained from the basis that a person whose memory has been erased would still possess the memory of being human and would suffer a psychotic breakdown if he saw the reflection of a robotic image instead of his original image of humanity.\n\nSince his 1987 film debut, the RoboCop character and franchise have been exercised through numerous entertainment media including multiple television series, comic books, video games, and action figures.\n\nRoboCop has appeared in numerous television series based on the films. These include:\n\nRoboCop has appeared in several video game adaptions for the films.\n\nRoboCop has appeared in several different comic books.\n\n\n\nThe character has had a generally positive reception from critics.\n"}
{"id": "1660223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1660223", "title": "Shamu", "text": "Shamu\n\nShamu was a killer whale (orca) which appeared in shows at SeaWorld San Diego in the mid/late 1960s. She was the fourth orca ever captured, and the second female. She was caught in October 1965 and died in August, 1971 after about six years of performance. After her death, the name Shamu continued to be used in SeaWorld \"Shamu\" orca shows for different whales in different SeaWorld parks.\n\nShamu was the first known intentional live capture of a healthy orca. The three previous orca captures (\"Wanda,\" Moby Doll and Namu) had been more opportunistic. The very young, 14 foot (4.25m), 2000 lb (900 kg) Southern Resident orca was captured by Ted Griffin off Penn Cove, Puget Sound in October 1965 to be a companion for the orca Namu at Griffin's Seattle public aquarium. Her name means ‘Friend of Namu’ (alternately 'She-Namu'). Shamu was sold to SeaWorld in San Diego in December 1965.\n\nShe was retired from performing after an incident on April 19, 1971, in which she bit the legs and hips of Anne Eckis, a SeaWorld employee who was trying to ride her as part of a filmed publicity event, and refused to release the woman until other workers came to the rescue and pried the orca's jaws apart with a pole. The employee had been asked to ride Shamu while wearing a bikini, and had not known that the orca had previously attacked people who wore ordinary bathing suits and was only conditioned to perform with trainers wearing wetsuits. The orca had also been showing signs of erratic behavior and of being upset just before the incident.\n\nShamu died about four months later, in August 1971.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47487515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47487515", "title": "Sir Richard Eyre Cox, 4th Baronet", "text": "Sir Richard Eyre Cox, 4th Baronet\n\nSir Richard Eyre Cox, 4th Baronet was an Irish baronet.\n\nHe was the son of The Ven. Sir Michael Cox, 3rd Baronet,Archdeacon of Cashel from 1767 to 1772, and his wife Elizabeth Massy, daughter of Hugh Massy, 1st Baron Massy, and widow of John Arthur. He married Mary O'Brien, great granddaughter of William O'Brien, 3rd Earl of Inchiquin. He was drowned on 17 September 1783. His widow remarried William Saurin, for many years the Attorney General for Ireland, by whom she had at least four children. She died in 1840.\n"}
{"id": "14746371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14746371", "title": "Thomas Browne (died 1460)", "text": "Thomas Browne (died 1460)\n\nSir Thomas Browne (140220 July 1460) was a Member of Parliament and Chancellor of the Exchequer. He was beheaded for treason on 20 July 1460.\n\nThomas Browne was born in 1402, the son and heir of Sir Robert Browne of Betchworth and a nephew of Stephen Browne MP. He was sworn to the peace in Kent in 1434. He was Justice of Peace for Kent from 1436 to 24 December 1450. He was High Sheriff of Kent in 1439 and Member of Parliament for Dover in the same year, and Knight of the Shire for Kent in 1445. He was present at Parliament in 1447 and 1449 as Under Treasurer. He was MP between 1449 and 1450 for Wallingford.\n\nHe served as Treasurer of the Household to Henry VI. He was knighted 1449/1451. During the reign of King Henry VI, his highest post was that of Chancellor of the Exchequer, which he held between 1440 and 1450. He was later Justice of Peace for Surrey from 20 July 1454 till his death.\n\nBrowne was convicted of treason on 20 July 1460, and immediately executed. According to some sources he was beheaded, while according to other sources he and six others were executed at Tyburn.\n\n\nIn about 1437, Browne married Eleanor FitzAlan, daughter of Sir Thomas FitzAlan, third son of John FitzAlan, 2nd Baron Arundel (d. 14 August 1390), and Elizabeth le Despenser (d. 10 or 11 April 1408), by whom he had seven sons and two daughters:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9814902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9814902", "title": "Tomb of Eve", "text": "Tomb of Eve\n\nThe Tomb of Eve, also known as Eve's Grave and Eve's Tomb, is an archeological site located in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia (). It is considered by some Muslims to be the burial place of Eve. Prince Faisal, Viceroy of Hejaz, destroyed it in 1928. In 1975, the site was also sealed with concrete by religious authorities, who disapprove of pilgrims praying at tombs.\n\nRichard Francis Burton mentions seeing it in his translation of the \"Book of a Thousand Nights and a Night\".\n\nAngelo Pesce mentions the site in his book on Jeddah and the earliest documented reference to the tomb:\n\nÉmile-Félix Gautier estimates the length of the tomb to about 130 m.\n\nNoted publicist Sirdar Ikbal Ali Shah mentions about the dimensions:\n\nAun Ar-Rafiq (Amir in Hijaz 1882–1905) tried to demolish the tomb, but that caused a public outcry. He then said: \"But think you that 'our mother' was so tall? If the stupidity is international, let the tomb stand\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "319492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=319492", "title": "Umbrella man (JFK assassination)", "text": "Umbrella man (JFK assassination)\n\nThe \"umbrella man\", identified by the United States House Select Committee on Assassinations in 1978 as Louie Steven Witt, is a name given to a figure who appears in the Zapruder film, and several other films and photographs, near the Stemmons Freeway sign within Dealey Plaza during the assassination of John F. Kennedy.\n\nWitt is the subject of a 2011 documentary short, \"The Umbrella Man\", by Errol Morris for \"The New York Times\".\n\nA person popularly dubbed the \"umbrella man\" has been the object of much speculation, as he was the only person seen carrying, and opening, an umbrella on that sunny day. He was also one of the closest bystanders to President John F. Kennedy when Kennedy was first struck by a bullet. As Kennedy's limousine approached, the man opened up and lifted the umbrella high above his head, then spun or panned the umbrella from east to west (clockwise) as the president passed by him. In the aftermath of the assassination, the \"umbrella man\" sat down on the sidewalk next to another man before getting up and walking towards the Texas School Book Depository.\n\nEarly speculation came from assassination researchers Josiah Thompson and Richard Sprague who noticed the open umbrella in a series of photographs. Thompson and Sprague suggested that the \"umbrella man\" may have been acting as a signaler of some kind, opening his umbrella to signal \"go ahead\" and then raising it to communicate \"fire a second round\" to other gunmen. The \"umbrella man\" is depicted as performing such a role in Oliver Stone's film \"JFK\" and \"The X-Files\" episode \"Musings of a Cigarette Smoking Man.\" Another theory proposed by Robert B. Cutler and endorsed by Colonel L. Fletcher Prouty is that the umbrella may have been used to fire a dart with a paralyzing agent at Kennedy to immobilize his muscles and make him a \"sitting duck\" for an assassination.\n\nAfter an appeal to the public by the United States House Select Committee on Assassinations (HSCA), Louie Steven Witt came forward in 1978 and claimed to be the \"umbrella man\". He claimed still to have the umbrella and did not know he had been the subject of controversy. He said that he brought the umbrella simply to heckle Kennedy whose father Joseph had been a supporter of the Nazi-appeasing British Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain. By waving a black umbrella, Chamberlain's trademark fashion accessory, Witt said he was protesting the Kennedy family appeasing Adolf Hitler before World War II. An umbrella had been used in cartoons in the 1930s to symbolize such appeasement, and Chamberlain often carried an umbrella. Kennedy, who wrote a thesis on appeasement while at Harvard, \"Why England Slept\", might have recognized the symbolism of the umbrella. Black umbrellas had been used in connection with protests against the President before; at the time of the construction of the Berlin Wall, a group of schoolchildren from Bonn sent the White House an umbrella labeled \"Chamberlain\".\n\nTestifying before the HSCA, Witt said \"I think if the \"Guinness Book of World Records\" had a category for people who were at the wrong place at the wrong time, doing the wrong thing, I would be No. 1 in that position, without even a close runner-up.\"\n\nWitt died on November 17, 2014.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45661008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45661008", "title": "Vasculogenic mimicry", "text": "Vasculogenic mimicry\n\nVasculogenic mimicry is the formation of microvascular channels by aggressive, metastatic and genetically deregulated tumour cells. This process differs from angiogenesis in that it occurs \"de novo\" without the presence of endothelial cells (tumour cells line tumour vessels effectively mimicking a true vascular endothelium). It was first described in uveal melanomas by Maniotis \"et al.\" in 1999. There are two main types of vasculogenic mimicry: tubular and patterned. The former is morphologically similar to normal blood vessels, whereas the latter is visibly different although capable of undergoing anastomosis with blood vessels.\n\nThe microvasculature generated through vasculogenic mimicry contains a basement membrane that stains positive with periodic acid–Schiff stain.\n\nAfter its discovery in 1999 a controversy arose in the field regarding the validity of the findings and conclusions of Maniotis and colleagues. Nonetheless, their findings have been further supported by several research groups, becoming the focus of much interest due to its potential role as a therapeutic target and indicator of metastasis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11050121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11050121", "title": "Z Gorres", "text": "Z Gorres\n\nZeta Celestino Oliveros Gorres (born 18 April 1982), best known as Z Gorres, is a Filipino former professional boxer who challenged once for the WBO super-flyweight title.\n\nGorres has a brother named Jun Gorres who was formerly a boxer but was stabbed to death in a street fight. His real name is a combination of those of his parents; Zeta (mother) and Celestino (father) Gorres. Gorres is married to Datchess Gorres and has four children.\n\nGorres became a boxing practitioner at 9 years of age. He began fighting as a professional on March 31, 2001. After winning 13 bouts in a row, he fought Edgar Rodrigo for the Philippine flyweight title on June 1, 2003. He, however, lost to Rodrigo by TKO in the 9th round which marked his first defeat.\n\nOne of Gorres' significant victories was his 1st round stoppage of Glenn Donaire, brother of pound for pound champion Nonito Donaire, on March 19, 2005. This was his first bout in the United States.\n\nAbout a year later, he won the OPBF super flyweight title against Waenpetch Chuwatana.\n\nOn February 24, 2007, Gorres got a shot for a world title where he challenged WBO super flyweight champion Fernando Montiel in a bout held in Gorres' hometown. There, Gorres was docked a point twice (one in the 10th and another in the 12th round) for holding. Montiel won the fight and defended the title in a split decision.\n\nHe fought former IBF flyweight champion Vic Darchinyan on February 2, 2008 in an IBF title eliminator. The winner was to face then IBF super flyweight titlist Dimitri Kirilov of Russia who would later be dethroned by Darchinyan on August 2, 2008. The match, however, was tarnished by poor refereeing and bottle-throwing from spectators who disliked it. The bout ended in a split draw. Nonetheless, Darchinyan won the right to fight for the championship because he was ranked higher than Gorres in IBF.\n\nGorres moved to bantamweight and won his first match in that division on March 14, 2009. There, he bested former IBF minimumweight champion Roberto Carlos Leyva in 7 rounds.\n\nOn November 13, 2009, after winning a 10 round bout against Luis Melendez in which he was knocked down with 30 seconds remaining in the final round, Gorres collapsed in the ring and was removed on a stretcher. He underwent surgery to relieve swelling to the left side of his brain. Originally, doctors were going to keep him in a medically induced coma for a few days, but Gorres reacted to the treatment much better than anticipated and came out of it. The injury he suffered ended his boxing career.\n\nIn February 2010, Gorres was well enough to fly home to the Philippines, where he was greeted at the airport by Philippines President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo. His physical therapy continued at Perpetual Succur Hospital in Cebu. His therapy involved the strengthening and conditioning of his muscles to help him regain the ability to do functional activities. Gorres began to regain his ability to walk and regained partial control of his left hand. He also underwent a series of surgeries for throat blockage.\n"}
