{"id": "101819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101819", "title": "Alberti bass", "text": "Alberti bass\n\nAlberti bass is a particular kind of accompaniment figure in music, often used in the Classical era, and sometimes the Romantic era. It was named after Domenico Alberti (1710–1740/46), who used it extensively, although he was not the first to use it.\n\nAlberti bass is a kind of broken chord or arpeggiated accompaniment, where the notes of the chord are presented in the order lowest, highest, middle, highest. This pattern is then repeated. The broken chord pattern helps to create a smooth, sustained, flowing sound on the piano.\n\nAlberti bass is usually found in the left hand of pieces for keyboard instruments, especially for Mozart's piano pieces. However, it is also found in pieces for other instruments. \n\nWell-known examples of Alberti bass include the beginning of Mozart's Piano Sonata, K 545. A famous example from 20th-century American popular music is the rhythm guitar part of the 1962 \"surf rock\" standard \"Pipeline\", by The Chantays.\n"}
{"id": "19634600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19634600", "title": "American Center in Moscow", "text": "American Center in Moscow\n\nThe American Center in Moscow is a cultural center located at the Embassy of the United States, Moscow, Russia. It was founded in 1993 by the U.S. Embassy to the Russian Federation. The American Center serves as a focal point of American culture in Russia’s capital and offers a variety of cultural and educational programs as well as access to print and online resources about the United States.\n\nThe Moscow American Center is Russia’s largest and oldest American Space, founded in 1993 to provide the public free information on the U.S. It hosts daily cultural and educational programs.\n\nThe American Center gives access to a collection of English-language resources: print books, audio and visual materials, collection of the latest magazines from the U.S., virtual databases, recordings of American films and documentaries. The center offers regular U.S. Speaker Series lectures, as well as a variety of cultural events, clubs, film screenings, discussion groups, seminars for teachers of English and other English-language programs. All events are free of charge.\n\nThe American Center in Moscow hosts Moscow EducationUSA Advising Center. EducationUSA offers complex advising services (i.e. workshops, webinars, lectures, individual consultations, pre-departure orientations, annual educational advising fair, etc.) on all steps of application process to U.S. colleges and universities. It has a library of books and test prep materials which are available for students interested in getting higher education in the United States. The Center runs a Competitive College Club (CCC) - an intensive group advising program aimed to assist the best and brightest high school students in grades 9-10 to become competitive applicants to U.S. schools. All assistance is provided free of charge.\n\n"}
{"id": "7087466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7087466", "title": "Angel of Grief", "text": "Angel of Grief\n\nAngel of Grief or the Weeping Angel is an 1894 sculpture by William Wetmore Story for the grave of his wife Emelyn Story at the Protestant Cemetery in Rome. Its full title bestowed by the creator was \"The Angel of Grief Weeping Over the Dismantled Altar of Life\".\n\nThis was Story's last major work prior to his death, a year after his wife. The statue's creation was documented in an 1896 issue of \"Cosmopolitan Magazine\": according to this account, his wife's death so devastated Story that he lost interest in sculpture, but was inspired to create the monument by his children, who recommended it as a means of memorializing the woman. Unlike the typical angelic grave art, \"this dramatic life-size winged figure speaks more of the pain of those left behind\" by appearing \"collapsed, weeping and draped over the tomb\".\n\nThe term is now used to describe multiple grave stones throughout the world erected in the style of the Story stone. A feature in \"The Guardian\" called the design \"one of the most copied images in the world\". Story himself wrote that \"It represents the angel of Grief, in utter abandonment, throwing herself with drooping wings and hidden face over a funeral altar. It represents what I feel. It represents Prostration. Yet to do it helps me.\"\n\nProminent replicas of the Angel of Grief sculpture include the Henry Lathrop monument, located in the Stanford Arboretum at Stanford University. Lathrop was the brother of Jane Stanford, the co-founder of the university. The original replica was built in 1901, but was severely damaged in the San Francisco earthquake of 1906, leading to its replacement in 1908. After years of neglect, the 1908 replacement was fully restored in 2001. Another example is the Cassard angel, erected around 1908 in the Green-Wood Cemetery in Brooklyn, New York.\n\nThe image has also been used in popular culture, such as in an album cover for the band Nightwish's album \"Once\" (2004) and in the 2012 film \"The Woman in Black\".\n\n"}
{"id": "584894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=584894", "title": "Artifact (archaeology)", "text": "Artifact (archaeology)\n\nAn artifact, or artefact (see American and British English spelling differences), is something made or given shape by humans, such as a tool or a work of art, especially an object of archaeological interest. \n\nIn archaeology, however, the word has become a term of particular nuance and is defined as: an object recovered by archaeological endeavor, which may be a cultural artifact having cultural interest. However, modern archaeologists take care to distinguish material culture from ethnicity, which is often more complex, as expressed by Carol Kramer in the dictum \"pots are not people\".\n\nExamples include stone tools, pottery vessels, metal objects such as weapons, and items of personal adornment such as buttons, jewelry and clothing. Bones that show signs of human modification are also examples. Natural objects, such as fire cracked rocks from a hearth or plant material used for food, are classified by archeologists as ecofacts rather than as artifacts. From the point of view of ethnography and archaeology, an ancestral artifact can be defined as \"any object of natural raw material (chert, obsidian, wood, bone, native copper, and so on) made by a people following a lifestyle based on foraging (e.g. hunting, gathering) and/or basic agriculture or pastoralism (e.g. horticulture, transhumance)\".\n\nArtifacts can come from any archaeological context or source such as:\n\n\nArtifacts are distinguished from the main body of the archaeological record such as stratigraphic features, which are non-portable remains of human activity, such as hearths, roads, deposits, trenches or similar remains, and from biofacts or ecofacts, which are objects of archaeological interest made by other organisms, such as seeds or animal bone.\n\nNatural objects that humans have moved but not changed are called manuports. Examples include seashells moved inland, or rounded pebbles placed away from the water action that made them.\n\nThese distinctions are often blurred. For instance, a bone removed from an animal carcass is a biofact, but a bone carved into a useful implement is an artifact. Similarly there can be debate over early stone objects that could be either crude artifacts or naturally occurring and happen to resemble early objects made by early humans or \"Homo sapiens\". It can be difficult to distinguish the differences between actual man-made lithic artifacts and geofacts – naturally occurring lithics that resemble man-made tools. It is possible to authenticate artifacts by examining the general characteristics attributed to man-made tools and local characteristics of the site.\n\n"}
{"id": "41384732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41384732", "title": "Binge &amp; Purge (film)", "text": "Binge &amp; Purge (film)\n\nBinge & Purge (aka Binge and Purge and Catwalk Cannibals) is a 2002 Canadian horror film written and directed by Brian Clement. It is about cannibal models who plot to take over a fascist police state.\n\nIn the near future, the United States has become a fascist police state. A string of brutal murders leads private investigators to uncover a secret plot by cannibals in control of the fashion industry.\n\n\nAndy McKeague of Monsters and Critics rated the film 2.5/5 stars and called it \"a gut munching romp that is big on intestine chewing but low on plot\". James O'Ehley of Scifi Movie Page rated it 1/5 stars and wrote that it could be used as blackmail for all involved. Michael Muzerall as Film Threat rated it 3/5 stars and wrote, \"The film has all the right factors to be the next big thing in cult movies, but it lacks the feverish style or the ripping wit to cement the deal.\"\n"}
{"id": "3841627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3841627", "title": "Caballo de Troya", "text": "Caballo de Troya\n\nCaballo de Troya (Spanish for Trojan Horse) is a novel (the first of a series of nine so far) written in 1984 by Spanish journalist, writer and ufologist Juan José Benítez. It has reached considerable success in most Spanish-speaking countries as well as in Brazil. The first volume, \"Trojan Horse: Jerusalem\", has been translated into English by LS Thomas; the copyright for this translation was submitted to the U.S. Copyright Office on May 31, 2012. Translations into Portuguese, French and Italian already exist.\n\nThe plot of the book unveils the last period in the life of Jesus Christ as revealed through the first-hand experience of two pilots (or rather \"timenauts\"), members of a US Air Force top-secret military experimental project on time travel codenamed \"Operation Trojan Horse\", who in 1973 supposedly succeeded in travelling back in time to the land of Palestine in the year 30 A.d.\n\nJerusalen: Caballo de Troya 1 (Trojan Horse: Jerusalem 1), the original work by J.J. Benitez, was translated from Spanish to English by Margaret Sayers Peden.\n\nIn 2007 Jerusalen: Caballo de Troya 1 (Trojan Horse: Jerusalem 1) work was registered with the US Copyright Office. The English translation was scheduled to be released in 2013.\n\nThe book is narrated as if it is a true report (The author of the book stated that the journal is actually real and it is left for the readers interpretation) of how the author was approached by an unnamed retired US Air Force pilot, referred to as \"The Major\" throughout the book (Jasón in later books), who in an elaborated indirect way tells the author how to find classified documents telling the story of the Operation Trojan Horse, in which The Major took part as a time traveller sent to witness the last weeks of Jesus's life through a time-travelling device sent back in time by the US military in an Israel base in 1973.\n\nA lengthy, detailed \"technical\" description of the time travel process (\"inversion of quantum swivels\") is provided. The time-traveller and the time-travelling vehicle are said to have been wrapped by an artificial skin to avoid biological contamination. The Major, who becomes the narrator of the story, is codenamed \"Jasón\" during the mission, and has to learn fluent Aramaic and Greek as a necessary skill to interact with people of this era and place during the mission, as well as other extensive training.\n\nIt is \"revealed\" that many of the amazing stories of eclipses, earthquakes after Jesus's death and his transfiguration were linked to extraterrestrial influences. Jesus's physical appearance is described as almost Nordic, with hazel eyes and very tall (he is sometimes called \"The Giant\", physically and metaphorically in the book).\n\nEven as the 1970s UFO mania has lost traction in Spanish-speaking countries, Benítez has retained solid sales and certain celebrity on the basis of his book series.\n\nThe following 8 sequels expand on the issued and reveal more detail. \"Caballo de Troya 9, Caná\" was published in Spain in 2011.\n\nHe wrote in his website that he first became interested in the \"real\" life of Jesus around that time, when a team of researchers said that the Shroud of Turin showed traces of Jesus' body. These claims have later come under scrutiny, but the fact has not stopped the flow of new Caballo de Troya books.\n\nThe author has claimed the time-travel part of Caballo de Troya is fiction, but that it contains \"more truth than people think\" suggesting, given he purports to be \"a UFO researcher\", that he might be claiming alien contact. The author insists that most, if not all, events in his novels are real.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38626657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38626657", "title": "Cinema of Kosovo", "text": "Cinema of Kosovo\n\nCinematography in Kosovo in the Albanian language began its activities after the foundation of \"Kosovafilm\", which produced short movies, documentaries, cartoons and later feature movies. Since 2008, the central authority for cinematography in Kosovo is Kosova’s Cinematography Center (KCC) though there are numerous independent film companies active in Kosovo. Before Kosovafilm, there were no fully Kosovan movies for Kosovo. \n\nBy 1937 on the territory of modern-day Kosovo (then within the Kingdom of Yugoslavia), there were seven operating cinemas. There was one per town, located in Pristina, Prizren, Kosovska Mitrovica, Gnjilane, Uroševac, Đakovica, and Peć. Cinematography in the former Yugoslavia after World War II was developed in accordance with the criteria of the League of Communists of Yugoslavia. Every republic in SFR Yugoslavia had centres of cinematography, so Kosovo not being a republic had access to these centres only through Belgrade to participate in documentary film production, artistic play and education framework for cinematography. With the formation of the cultural centre began Albanian-language cinematography in Kosovo. The first artistic film was realised in 1955, \"Esalon doktora M.\" but the first movie in Albanian was \"Uka i Bjeshkeve te Nemura\". This film is about Uka, who is an old Albanian that lives in the mountains on the border of Yugoslavia (Kosovo) and Albania. As an honorable man, he must deal with his son who befriended Italian fascists during World War II. \"Era dhe lisi\" is the first completely Kosovan production movie.\n\nThe Kosovo film industry dates from the 1970s. On 20 February 1969, the parliament of Kosovo established \"Kosovafilm\", a state institution for the production, distribution and showing of films. Its initial director was the actor Abdurrahman Shala, followed by writer and noted poet Azem Shkreli, under whose direction the most successful films were produced. Subsequent directors of Kosovafilm were Xhevar Qorraj, Ekrem Kryeziu and Gani Mehmetaj. After producing seventeen feature films, numerous short films and documentaries, the institution was taken over by the Serbian authorities in 1990 and dissolved. Kosovafilm was reestablished after Yugoslav withdrawal from the region in June 1999 and has since been endeavoring to revive the film industry in Kosovo.\n\nKosovafilm produced eight feature films in BCS, mostly partisan war films, many of which were in collaboration with Filmske Novosti and Avala Film of Belgrade. Its first Albanian-language production was the film \"Kur pranvera vonohet\" (When Spring Comes Late), premiered on 12 July 1979 and was directed by Ekrem Kryeziu and was based on Fadil Hoxha's partisan diary. Perhaps the best known, and last of the nine Albanian-language feature films of the period, was \"Rojet e mjegulles\" (\"The Keepers of the Fog\"), premiered on 15 June 1988. It was also directed by lsa Qosja and starred Xhevat Qorraj, Enver Petrovci, Florie Siarina and Cun Lajçi.\n\nSome of the films produced by Kosovafilm are:\n\nKosova’s Cinematography Center (KCC) is public film fund and central authority for cinematography. Its objective is achieving goals on public interest on cinematography issues. It became a member of the pan-European organization –European Film Promotion (EFP). This decision was taken at the General Assembly of this organisation and it was announced in 2012. Kosovo became the 33rd member of this network organisation. In 2014 Kosovo Cinematography Center got accepted at the “Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences” that organizes the ceremony of “Oscar” awards. Kosovo has participated in different international film festivals such as: Berlin International Film Festival, Sundance Film Festival, Monterrey international film festival, Melbourne International Film Festival, Abu Dhabi Film Festival, Winterthur Film Festival, Thessaloniki International Film Festival, Warsaw International Film Festival etc. It has also won prizes in many of them. The latest prize winners are: Arta Dobroshi at Shooting Stars Award in 2013, The Return at Sundance Film Festival in 2012, The wedding tape at Abu Dhabi Film Festival in 2011 etc.\n\nBekim Fehmiu was born on 1 June 1936 in Sarajevo. He was an ethnic Albanian and his family moved to the Kosovo region, where, as a 20-year-old amateur boxer and manual worker. His big break was the 1967 film I Even Met Happy Gypsies, a subtle portrayal of Roma life which won two awards in Cannes and was nominated for an Oscar. In 1974 Fehmiu appeared in the title role The Adventures of Ulysses, with Irene Papas as Penelope, and in John Frankenheimer's Black Sunday (1977) he played a Palestinian terrorist alongside Robert Shaw and Marthe Keller.\n\nThe New York Times dubbed him the \"Yugoslav heart-throb\" for his youthful conquests and acquaintances with the likes of Brigitte Bardot and Ava Gardner. Decades after his last appearance on the screen, readers of a leading Italian women's magazine voted him one of the ten most attractive men of the 20th century. He committed suicide in his Belgrade apartment on 15 June 2010. According to his last wish, Bekim Fehmiu's ashes were scattered across the river Bistrica near his hometown of Prizren.\n\nFaruk Begolli was the most famous Kosovo Albanian actor and director in Yugoslavia (along with Bekim Fehmiu). He attended high school in Pristina and completed the academy of film in Belgrade (1966). Begolli played in more than 60 films, starting with Veljko Bulajić's Pogled u zenicu Sunca (1966). He cooperated with director Puriša Đorđević in his films \"Podne\" (Noon), \"Jutro\" (The Morning), and \"San\" (The Dream). In the late 1980s, Begolli returned from Belgrade to Kosovo, where he worked at the University of Pristina as a professor at the Faculty of Drama. His last lead role was in Ekrem Kryeziu's \"Dashuria e Bjeshkeve te Nemuna\" (Love in the Damned Mountain), and his last piece was Etjet e Kosoves (Kosovo: Desperate Search), where he was also a co-scenarist. He died in 2007, after a long battle with cancer.\n\nArta Dobroshi is famous with her role in the screen drama Lorna’s Silence (winner of Best Screenplay at the 2008 Cannes Film Festival). This young actress achieved her international breakthrough and a nomination for the 2008 European Film Awards. Born in Pristina, she has played many stage roles in her country, as well as a leading role in the prize-winning German-Albanian production Magic Eye (2005), a film about the situation in Albania in 1997, when it was rocked by unrest. She starred in these movies:Three Worlds(2012), Late Bloomers(2011), Baby (II)(2010), Lorna's Silence (2008), The Sadness of Mrs. Snajdrova (2008), Magic eye(2005).\n\n\nThe International Documentary and Short Film Festival is the largest film event in Kosovo. The Festival is organized in August in Prizren which attracts numerous international and regional artists. In this annually organized festival films are screened twice a day in three open air cinemas as well as in two regular cinemas. Except for its films, the festival is also well known for lively nights after the screening. Various events happen within the scope of the festival: workshops, DokuPhoto exhibitions, festival camping, concerts, which altogether turn the city into a charming place to be.In 2010 Dokufest was voted as one of the 25 best international documentary festivals.In 2010 Dokufest was voted as one of the 25 best international documentary festivals.\n\nFounded in October 2003 by a group of students and young artists, Skena Up is the NGO that organizes the International Students’ Film and Theatre Festival in Kosovo.\n\nPriFest aims to develop local and international talent, by enhancing growth of the industry in the country.\n\nThe Rolling Film Festivals have become Kosovo’s event for introducing other Kosovan communities to the Roma community, for supporting Romani artistic expression, and for providing a venue for combating stereotypes and promoting positive inter-ethnic relations. Kosovo has an Action Plan for integration of Roma in national life, including culture. The project will seek MOUs with appropriate government agencies recognizing this program as an aspect of the Action Plan, and support for the project in approach to schools and community venues. European goals, as embodied in European level and national action plans, and in the Decade of Roma Inclusion, recognize education, culture, and non-discrimination as necessary and fundamental means for breaking the cycle of poverty, and including marginalized minorities successfully in national life.\n\nThe AniBar International Animation Festival is the only festival of animated film in Kosovo. The AniBar Festival is organized by NGO 'Anibar Group' and is held in August in the town of Peć. The aim of the festival is to present to the public of Kosovo the latest global trends in the field of animated film, as well as create an environment for young writers and animators to be able to create their art.The Anibar Festival started in August 2010, with the main aim of creating a new platform in Kosovo for the animated film genre, as well as encouraging and enabling young authors to create new works with classical and contemporary techniques. In 2011, the Anibar Festival was already officially represented at the annual Dok Leipzig festival in Germany. Animated films that are screened in AniBar are divided into three categories: competitive program, special program and the program 'Kids for Kids Animations'. Admission to the competitions for animated films is open every year from January 30 to April 30.\n\n"}
{"id": "22296767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22296767", "title": "Cross cultural sensitivity", "text": "Cross cultural sensitivity\n\nCross cultural sensitivity is the knowledge, awareness, and acceptance of other cultures. On the individual level, it allows travelers and workers to successfully navigate a different culture that they are interacting with whereas it is considered one of the primary factors that drive the way organizations behave. \n\nSupport of cultural sensitivity is based on ideological or practical considerations.\n\nFormer Secretary-General of the United Nations Kofi Annan advocates cultural sensitivity as an essential value in the modern world:\n\nCultural sensitivity can increase the security of travellers because it helps them see things from the other person's perspective. Lacking awareness of foreign cultures can also have adverse legal consequences. There are, for example etiquettes in a country that are considered violations of business codes in another.\n\nFor workers, this cross-cultural sensitivity can lead to competitiveness and success when working with or within organizations located in a different country. Experts stressed that this is a prime requisite for the satisfied expatriate. These benefits are highlighted in the way this concept is defined. It is concerned with the consideration of how two societies and cultures operate, particularly with respect to how they are similar and different from each other. Being able to determine these in terms of thoughts, behavior, beliefs, and expressions among others makes it possible to solve problems meaningfully and act in a manner that is acceptable to all stakeholders. \n\nCultural sensitivity can have positive effects in academia. In 2002 Unity College, Murray Bridge, began a Student Exchange Program with Chuo University Suginami High School in Tokyo, Japan. This program has been successful because of the both schools' focus on cross cultural awareness.\n\nCultural sensitivity training in health care providers can improve the satisfaction and health outcomes of patients from different minority groups.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21966223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21966223", "title": "Decet (music)", "text": "Decet (music)\n\nIn music, a decet—sometimes dectet, decimette, or even tentet —is a composition which requires ten musicians for a performance, or a musical group that consists of ten people. The corresponding German word is Dezett, the French is dixtuor. Unlike some other musical ensembles such as the string quartet, there is no established or standard set of instruments in a decet.\n\nOf the ensemble types named according to the number of musicians in the group, the decet and the larger undecet, duodecet, etc., are names less common in music than smaller groupings. In the eighteenth century, ten-part ensembles were most often encountered in the genre of the wind serenade, or divertimento (for example, Mozart, K. 186 and 166, both for 2 oboes, 2 clarinets, 2 English horns, 2 horns, and 2 bassoons). Because the wind-serenade tradition was carried on during the 19th century primarily in France, the term \"dixtuor\" is somewhat more widely used in French than is its English equivalent, and French works figure most prominently in this ten-instrument configuration—most commonly the double wind quintet. One of the earliest examples to use the English term is the Decet for oboe, clarinet, horn, bassoon, piano, 2 violins, viola, cello, and contrabass (ca. 1841) by John Henry Griesbach (1798–1875) . Perhaps the best-known work in this genre from the nineteenth century is Joachim Raff’s Sinfonietta for ten winds, Op. 188.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "888454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=888454", "title": "Dominant minority", "text": "Dominant minority\n\nA dominant minority is a minority group that has overwhelming political, economic, or cultural dominance in a country, despite representing a small fraction of the overall population (a demographic minority). Dominant minorities are also known as alien elites if they are recent immigrants.\n\nThe term is most commonly used to refer to an ethnic group which is defined along racial, national, religious, cultural or tribal lines and that holds a disproportionate amount of power. A notable example is South Africa during the apartheid regime, where White South Africans, or Afrikaners more specifically, wielded predominant control of the country, despite never composing more than 22% of the population. African American-descended nationals in Liberia, Sunni Arabs in Ba'athist Iraq, the Alawite minority in Syria (since 1970 under the rule of the Alawite Assad family), and the Tutsi in Rwanda since the 1990s have also been cited as current or recent examples.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8841943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8841943", "title": "Dong Son drum", "text": "Dong Son drum\n\nA Dong Son drum (also called Heger Type I drum) is a bronze drum fabricated by the Dong Son culture in the Red River Delta of northern Vietnam. The drums were produced from about 600 BCE or earlier until the third century CE; they are one of the culture's finest examples of metalworking.\n\nThe drums, cast in bronze using the lost-wax casting method are up to a meter in height and weigh up to . Dong Son drums were apparently both musical instruments and cult objects. They are decorated with geometric patterns, scenes of daily life and war, animals and birds, and boats. The latter alludes to the importance of trade to the culture in which they were made, and the drums themselves became objects of trade and heirlooms. More than 200 have been found, across an area from eastern Indonesia to Vietnam and parts of Southern China.\n\nThe earliest drum found in 1976 existed 2700 years ago in Wangjiaba in Yunnan Chuxiong Yi Autonomous Prefecture China. It is classified into the bigger and heavier Yue drums including the Dong Son drums, and the Dian drums, into eight subtypes, purported to be invented by Ma Yuan and Zhuge Liang. But the Book of the Later Han said Ma melt the bronze drums seized from the rebel Lạc Việt in Jiaozhi into horse.\n\nThe discovery of Dong Son drums in New Guinea, is seen as proof of trade connections - spanning at least the past thousand years - between this region and the technologically advanced societies of Java and China.\n\nIn 1902, a collection of 165 large bronze drums was published by F. Heger, who subdivided them into a classification of four types.\n\nThe drums have a symmetrical appearance with three parts:\n\nThe patterns on drums bear a realistic style and show stilted houses, dancing people, people pounding rice, beating drums and sailing, together with animal and birds. The scenes depict daily life of ancient Viet and reflect the artistic talent and mind. The drums were used as musical instruments in festivals, such as prayers for rain, for good harvest and rituals, such as weddings and funerals, as well as command in army. They were also used as funerary objects and symbol of power of tribe leaders.\n\nThe Heger 1 drums of the Dong Son culture were classified and divided into five groups by the Vietnamese scholar Pham Huy Thong in 1990, a division that implied a chronological succession. The earliest, group A, comprisees a set of large and intricated decorated drums. Group B consists of a smaller drums which almost universally have a group of waterbirds in flight as their key motif on the tympanum and the mantle designs. Group C has a central panel on the tympanum made up of a row of plumed warriors placed inside another panel of waterbirds in flight. Toads line the tympanum's edge while the mantle was decorated with either patterns involving boats or geometric patterns.\n\nThe Ngọc Lũ drum is regarded as the most important of the Dong Son drums. The drum was accidentally discovered in 1893 in Hà Nam Province, southeast of Hanoi, rather than during a planned expedition. In contrast to most other drums of the Dong Son, the drumhead bears three concentric panels depicting animals or humans interleaved with bands of geometric or circular patterns. The innermost panel appears to be a self-referencing depiction, as it is decorated with pictures of humans who appear to be performing a ceremony involving the drums themselves. Other musical instruments and rice growing and harvesting activities are also shown. The two outer panels are decorated with scenes of deer, hornbills and crane egrets.\n\nThe Hoàng Ha drum is a notable Dong Son drum. It was discovered in Hòa Bình Province in 1937 near the village of Hoàng Ha, with an outer panel of crane egrets and an inner panel which shows a procession similar to that described in the Ngọc Lũ drum, the most famous of the Dong Son drums. It depicts four feathered men are depicted walking in a line, brandishing spears, with two musicians in tow. A person is depicted standing under the eaves of a house, beating a drum while the rice fields are unattended, allowing a bird to eat the rice that was intended for threshing. The boats depicted on the mantle of the drum are very similar, with an analogous cleft prow, archer standing on raised platform and a drum. However, the drum is different from the Ngoc Lu drum in that the animal is absent.\n\nThe Cổ Loa drum is a notable specimen showing a procession similar to that described in the Ngọc Lũ drum. The drum only has two warriors with spears, in contrast to that of the Ngọc Lũ drum. Another difference is that the ensemble of percussionists consists of three drummers, with one drum lying under the eaves of the house. Meanwhile, an extra person is depicted in the rice threshing process. The person has long hair and is winnowing grain into a bowl. The percussion ensemble is also depicted differently in that the drummers are not all drumming in synchronisation. Two of the drummers are depicted making contact with the drum, while the other two drummers have their batons in the raised position.\n\nThe Song Da drum is a notable specimen discovered in Ha Son Binh in the 19th century. The drum shows a procession similar to that described in the Ngọc Lũ drum. This drum varies in that it depicts four sets of men in procession with feathered headgear, rather than two. Also, each set comprises three or four people none of whom appear to be armed. The posture of the men was interpreted as that they were participating in a dance rather than a military ceremony. In this drum, only one pair of people are depicted as threshing rice, and there is no cymbal player. However, the general motifs, such as the boats on the mantle, remain in place.\n\nThe Quang Xuong drum from Thanh Hóa Province is another specimen, which is believed to be possibly later in origin. However, the drum is smaller and the images are harder to interpret.\n\nLarge drums found in northern Vietnam were generally in the minority, as most drums have simple decorations with fewer representations of people. The Ban Thom drum has only an inner panel with four houses and plumed humans standing alone or in couples.\n\nZhuang people in Yunnan practice \"ningdong\" wine, \"ningdong\" music, etc. The \"ningdong\"s used by them have same decoration with Dong Son drums.\n\n"}
{"id": "14480882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14480882", "title": "Eighteen Oddities", "text": "Eighteen Oddities\n\nEighteen Oddities in Yunnan (Chinese: 云南十八怪; pinyin: Yúnnán Shíbā Guài; sometimes called Eighteen Wonders of Yunnan) are eighteen unique traits of the Yunnan province of southwest China. The oddities, which are as follows, are generally presented in the form of a list, which is promulgated in promotional materials advertising the province to foreign and domestic tourists.\n\n\nThe items on the list are not fixed, so other versions of the list may include other oddities, including:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27035690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27035690", "title": "Elluminate Live", "text": "Elluminate Live\n\nElluminate Live! was a web conferencing program developed by Elluminate Inc. Elluminate \"rented out\" virtual rooms or vSpaces where virtual schools and businesses can hold classes and meetings. Elluminate was acquired by Blackboard Inc. and renamed to Blackboard Collaborate. Blackboard subsequently deprecated Blackboard Collaborate in favor of Blackboard Collaborate Ultra which is WebRTC-based.\n\nWhile Elluminate is primarily designed and used for educational purposes, it is also used by training organizations and corporations. K12 Inc., Desire2learn and several other schools and businesses use Elluminate live as part of their curriculum and meetings.\n\nElluminate Live! communication tools include integrated Voice over IP and teleconferencing, public and private chat, quizzing and polling, emoticons, and a webcam tool. The software includes several visual tools, including whiteboard, application sharing, file transfer, and web tour. The software also includes a record feature that allows the moderator to record the class for others to watch later as well as a graphing tool, breakout rooms for group work, and timer. The whiteboard supports the uploading of presentations for viewing on the whiteboard for class or meeting.\n\nTo use Elluminate, the user needs Java Web Start or Java SE by Sun Microsystems. Elluminate Live is designed to be used on all computers, providing they have Java installed. Elluminate is also designed to work on Internet connections that include cable/DSL and 28.8kbit/s or higher dialup connections.\n"}
{"id": "45580833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45580833", "title": "Geometric morphometrics in anthropology", "text": "Geometric morphometrics in anthropology\n\nThe study of geometric morphometrics in anthropology has made a major impact on the field of morphometrics by aiding in some of the technological and methodological advancements. Geometric morphometrics is an approach that studies shape using Cartesian landmark and semilandmark coordinates that are capable of capturing morphologically distinct shape variables. The landmarks can be analyzed using various statistical techniques separate from size, position, and orientation so that the only variables being observed are based on morphology. Geometric morphometrics is used to observe variation in numerous formats, especially those pertaining to evolutionary and biological processes, which can be used to help explore the answers to a lot of questions in physical anthropology. Geometric morphometrics is part of a larger subfield in anthropology, which has more recently been named virtual anthropology. Virtual anthropology looks at virtual morphology, the use of virtual copies of specimens to perform various quantitative analyses on shape (such as geometric morphometrics) and form...\n\nThe field of geometric morphometrics grew out of the accumulation of improvements of methods and approaches over several decades beginning with Francis Galton (1822-1911). Galton was a polymath and the president of the Anthropological Institute of Great Britain. In 1907 he invented a way to quantify facial shapes using a base-line registration approach for shape comparisons. This was later adapted by Fred Bookstein and termed “two-point coordinates” or “Bookstein-shape coordinates”.\n\nIn the 1940s, D’Arcy Wentworth Thompson (biologist and mathematician, 1860-1948) looked at ways to quantify that could be attached to biological shape based on developmental and evolutionary theories. This led to the first branch of multivariate morphometrics, which emphasized matrix manipulations involving variables. In the late 1970s and early 1980s, Fred Bookstein (currently a professor of Anthropology at the University of Vienna) began using Cartesian transformations and David George Kendall (statistician, 1918-2007) showed that figures that hold the same shape can be treated as separate points in a geometric space. Finally, in 1996, Leslie Marcus (paleontologist, 1930-2002) convinced colleagues to use morphometrics on the famous Ötzi skeleton, which helped expose the importance of the applications of these methods.\n\nTraditional morphometrics is the study of morphological variations between or within groups using multivariate statistical tools. Shape is defined by collecting and analyzing length measurements, counts, ratios, and angles. The statistical tools are able to quantify the covariation within and between samples. Some of the typical statistical tools used for traditional morphometrics are: principal components, factor analysis, canonical variate, and discriminant function analysis. It is also possible to study allometry, which is the observed change in shape when there is change in size. However, there are problems pertaining to size correction since linear distance is highly correlated with size. There have been multiple methods put forth to correct for this correlation, but these methods disagree and can end up with different results using the same dataset. Another problem is linear distances are not always defined by the same landmarks making it difficult to use for comparative purposes. For shape analysis itself, which is the goal of morphometrics, the biggest downside to traditional morphometrics is that it does not capture the complete variation of shape in space, which is what the measurements are supposed to be based on. For example, if one tried to compare the length and width for an oval and tear drop shape with the same dimensions they would be deemed as the same using traditional morphometrics. Geometric morphometrics tries to correct these problems by capturing more variability in shape.\n\nThere is a basic structure to successfully performing and completing every geometric morphometric study:\n\nThe first step is to define your landmark set. Landmarks have to be anatomically recognizable and the same for all specimens in the study. Landmarks should be selected to properly capture the shape trying to be observed and capable of being replicated. The sample size should be roughly three times the amount of landmarks chosen and they must be recorded in the same order for every specimen.\n\nSemilandmarks, also called sliding landmarks, are used when the location of a landmark along a curvature might not be identifiable or repeatable. Semilandmarks were created in order to take landmark based geometric morphometrics to the next step by capturing the shape of difficult areas such as smooth curves and surfaces. In order to obtain a semilandmark, the curvature still has to start and end on definable landmarks, capture observed morphology, remain homologous across specimens in the same steps seen above for regular landmarks, be equal in number, and equally distant apart. When this approach was first proposed, Bookstein suggested gaining semilandmarks by densely sampling landmarks along the surface in a mesh and slowly thinning out the landmarks until the desired curvature was obtained. Newer landmark programs aid in the process but there are still some steps that must be taken in order for the semilandmarks to be the same across the whole sample. Semilandmarks are not placed on the actual curve or surface but on tangent vectors to the curve or tangent planes to the surface. The sliding of semilandmarks in new programs is performed by either selecting a specimen to be the model specimen for the rest of the specimens or using a computational sample mean from tangent vectors. Semilandmarks are automatically placed in most programs when the observer chooses a starting and ending point on definable landmarks and sliding the semilandmarks between them until the shape is captured. The semilandmarks are then mapped onto the rest of the specimens in the sample. Since shape will differ between specimens, the observer has to manually go through and make sure the landmarks and semilandmarks are on the surface for the rest of the specimens. If not they must be moved to touch the surface, but this process still maintains the correct location. There is still room for improvement to these methods but this is the most consistent option at the moment. Once mapped on, these semilandmarks can be treated just like landmarks for statistical analysis.\n\nThis is a different approach to data collection than using landmarks and semilandmarks. In this approach, deformation grids are used to capture the morphological shape differences and changes. The general idea is that shape variations can be recorded from one specimen to another based on the distortion of a grid. Bookstein proposed the use of a thin-plate spline (TPS) interpolation, which is a computed deformation grid that calculates a mapping function between two individuals that measures point differences. Basically, the TPS interpolation has a template computed grid that is applied to specimens and the differences in shape can be read from the different deformations of the template. The TPS can be used for both two- and three-dimensional data, but has proved less effective for visualizing three-dimensional differences, but it can easily be applied to the pixels of an image or volumetric data from CT or MRI scans.\n\nLandmark and semilandmark coordinates can be recorded on each specimen, but size, orientation, and position can vary for each of those specimens adding in variables that distract from the analysis of shape. This can be fixed by using superimposition, with generalized procrusted analysis (GPA) being the most common application. GPA removes the variation of size, orientation, and position by superimposing the landmarks in a common coordinate system. The landmarks for all specimens are optimally translated, rotated, and scaled based on a least-squared estimation. The first step is translation and rotation to minimize the squared and summed differences (squared Procrustes distance) between landmarks on each specimen. Then the landmarks are individually scaled to the same unit Centroid size. Centroid size is the square root of the sum of squared distances of the landmarks in configuration to their mean location. The translation, rotation, and scaling bring the landmark configurations for all specimens into a common coordinate system so that the only differing variables are based on shape alone. The new superimposed landmarks can now be analyzed in multivariate statistical analyses.\n\nIn general, principal components analysis is used to construct overarching variables that take the place of multiple correlated variables in order to reveal the underlying structure of the dataset. This is helpful in geometric morphometrics where a large set of landmarks can create correlated relationships that might be difficult to differentiate without reducing them in order to look at the overall variability in the data. Reducing the number of variables is also necessary because the number of variables being observed and analyzed should not exceed sample size. Principal component scores are computed through an eigendecomposition of a sample’s covariance matrix and rotates the data to preserve procrustes distances. In other words, a principal components analysis preserves the shape variables that were scaled, rotated, and translated during the generalize procrustes analysis. The resulting principal component scores project the shape variables onto low-dimensional space based on eigenvectors. The scores can be plotted various ways to look at the shape variables, such as scatterplots. It is important to explore what shape variables are being observed to make sure the principal components being analyzed are pertinent to the questions being asked. Although the components might show shape variables not relevant to the question at hand, it is perfectly acceptable to leave those components out any further analysis for a specific project.\n\nPartial least squares is similar the principal components analysis in the fact that it reduces the number of variables being observed so patterns are more easily observed in the data, but it uses a linear regression model. PLS is an approach that looks at two or more sets of variables measured on the same specimens and extracts the linear combinations that best represent the pattern of covariance across the sets. The linear combinations will optimally describe the covariances and provide a low-dimensional output to compare the different sets. With the highest shape variation covariance, mean shape, and the other shape covariances that exists among the sets, this approach is ideal for looking at the significance of group differences. PLS has been used a lot in studies that look at things such as sexual dimorphism, or other general morphological differences found at the population, subspecies, and species level. It has also been used to look at functional, environmental, or behavioral differences that could influence the found shape covariance between sets\n\nMultiple or multivariate regression is an approach to look at the relationship between several independent or predictor variables and a dependent or influential variable. It is best used in geometric morphometrics when analyzing shape variables based on an external influence. For example, it can be used in studies with attached functional or environmental variables like age or the development over time in certain environments. The multivariate regression of shape based on the logarithm of centroid size (square root of the sum of squared distances of landmarks) is ideal for allometric studies. Allometry is the analysis of shape based on the biological parameters of growth and size. This approach is not affected by the number of dependent shape variables or their covariance, so the results of regression coefficients can be seen as a deformation in shape.\n\nThe human brain is unique from other species based on the size of the visual cortex, temporal lobe, and parietal cortex, and increased gyrification (folds of the brain). There have been many questions as to why these changes occurred and how they contributed to cognition and behavior, which are important questions in human evolution. Geometric morphometrics has been used to explore some of these questions using virtual endocasts (casts of the inside of the cranium) to gather information since brain tissue does not preserve in the fossil record. Geometric morphometrics can reveal small shape differences between brains such as differences between modern humans and Neanderthals whose brains were similar in size. Neubauer and colleagues looked at the endocasts of chimpanzees and modern humans to observe brain growth using 3D landmarks and semilandmarks. They found that there is an early “globularization phase” in human brain development that shows expansion of the parietal and cerebellar areas, which does not occur in chimpanzees. Gunz and colleagues extended the study further and found that the “globularization phase” does not occur in Neanderthals and instead Neanderthal brain growth is more similar to chimpanzees. This difference could point to some important changes in the human brain that led to different organization and cognitive functions\n\nThere have been many debates on the relationships between Middle Pleistocene hominin crania from Eurasia and Africa because they display a mosaic of both primitive and derived traits. Studies on cranial morphology for these specimens have created arguments that Eurasian fossils from the Middle Pleistocene are a transition between \"Homo erectus\" and later hominins like Neanderthals and modern humans. However, there are two sides to the argument with one side saying that the European and African fossils are from a single taxon while others say that the Neanderthal lineage should be included. Harvati and colleagues decided to attempt to quantify the craniofacial features of Neanderthals and European Middle Pleistocene fossils using 3D landmarks to try to add to the debate. They found that some features were more Neanderthal like while others were primitive and likely from the Middle Pleistocene African hominins, so the argument could still go either way. Freidline and colleagues further added to the debate by looking at both adult and subadult crania of modern and Pleistocene hominins using 3D landmarks and semilandmarks. They found similarities in facial morphology between Middle Pleistocene fossils from Europe and Africa and a divide in facial morphology during the Pleistocene based on time period. The study also found that some characteristics separating Neanderthals from Middle Pleistocene hominins, like the size of the nasal aperture and degree of midfacial prognathism, might be due to allometric differences\n\nCrania can be used to classify ancestry and sex to aid in forensic contexts such as crime scenes and mass fatalities. In 2010, Ross and colleagues were provided federal funds by the U.S. Department of Justice to compile data for population specific classification criteria using geometric morphometrics. Their aim was to create an extensive population database from 3D landmarks on human crania, to develop and validate population specific procedures for classification of unknown individuals, and develop software to use in forensic identification. They placed 3D landmarks on 75 craniofacial landmarks from European, African, and Hispanic populations of about 1000 individuals with a Microscribe digitizer. The software they developed, called 3D-ID, can classify unknown individuals into probable sex and ancestry, and allows for fragmentary and damaged specimens to be used. A copy of the full manuscript can be found here: Geometric Morphometric Tools for the Classification of Human Skulls\n\nGeometric morphometrics can also be used to capture the slight shape variations found in postcranial bones of the human body such as \"os coxae\". Bierry and colleagues used 3D CT reconstructions of modern adult pelvic bones for 104 individuals to look at the shape of the obturator foramen. After a normalization technique to take out the factor of size, they outlined the obturator foramen with landmarks and semilandmarks to capture its shape. They chose the obturator foramen because it tends to be oval in males and triangular in females. The results show a classification accuracy of 88.5% for males and 80.8% for females using a Discriminant Fourier Analysis. Another study done by Gonzalez and colleagues used geometric morphometrics to capture the complete shape of the ilium and ischiopubic ramus. They placed landmarks and semilandmarks on 2D photographic images of 121 left pelvic bones from a collection of undocumented skeletons at the Museu Anthropológico de Coimbra in Portugal. Since the pelvic bones were of unknown origin, they used a K-means Cluster Analysis to determine a sex category before performing a Discriminant Function analysis. The results had a classification accuracy for the greater sciatic notch of 90.9% and the ischiopubic ramus at 93.4 to 90.1%\n\nThe books listed below are the standard suggestions for anyone who wants to obtain a comprehensive understanding of morphometrics (referred to by colors):\n\n-The Red Book: Bookstein, F. L., B. Chernoff, R. Elder, J. Humphries, G. Smith, and R. Strauss. 1985. Morphometrics in Evolutionary Biology\n\n-The Blue Book: Rohlf, F. J. and F. L. Bookstein (eds.). 1990. Proceedings of the Michigan Morphometrics Workshop\n\n-The Orange Book: Bookstein, F. L. 1991. Morphometric Tools for Landmark Data. Geometry and Biology\n\n-The Black Book: Marcus, L. F., E. Bello, A. García-Valdecasas (eds.). 1993. Contributions to Morphometrics\n\n-The Green Book: Zelditch, M. L., D. L. Swiderski, H. D. Sheets, and W. L. Fink. 2004. Geometric Morphometrics for biologists: A Primer\n\n2D Equipment\n\n3D Equipment\n\n"}
{"id": "53826892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53826892", "title": "HTMLGIANT", "text": "HTMLGIANT\n\nHTMLGIANT is an online literature blog founded by American author Blake Butler. It presents itself as a \"literature blog that isn't always about literature\", and includes book reviews and interviews. It is considered to be an important outlet for alternative literature, a loosely defined literary movement.\n\nThe website was founded in 2008 by Gene Morgan and Blake Butler. In 2014, the site shut down due to allegations of sexual misconduct by members of the alt-lit community. Two years after shutting down, the site was brought back online in 2016.\n\nNotable contributors include Roxane Gay.\n"}
{"id": "4029769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4029769", "title": "Incoherents", "text": "Incoherents\n\nThe Incoherents (\"Les Arts incohérents\") was a short-lived French art movement founded by Parisian writer and publisher (1857-1935) in 1882, which in its satirical irreverence anticipated many of the art techniques and attitudes later associated with avant-garde and anti-art. \n\nLévy coined the phrase \"les arts incohérents\" as a play on the common expression \"les arts décoratifs\" (i.e. arts & crafts, but above all, a famous art school in Paris, the National School of Decorative Arts). The Incoherents presented work which was deliberately irrational and iconoclastic, contained found objects, was nonsensical, included humoristic sketchs, drawings of children, and drawings \"made by people who don't know how to draw.\" Lévy exhibited an all-black painting by poet Paul Bilhaud called \"Combat de Nègres dans un Tunnel\" (Negroes Fight in a Tunnel). The early film animator Émile Cohl contributed photographs which would later be called surreal. \n\nAlthough small and short-lived, the Incoherents were certainly well-known. The movement sprang from the same Montmartre cabaret culture that spawned the Hydropathes of Émile Goudeau and Alfred Jarry's \"Ubu Roi\". The October 1882 show was attended by two thousand people, including Manet, Renoir, Camille Pissarro, and Richard Wagner. Beginning in 1883 there were annual shows, or masked balls, or both. In an 1883 show, the artist contributed \"Le rire,\" an \"augmented\" \"Mona Lisa\" smoking a pipe, that directly prefigures the famous Marcel Duchamp 1919 \"appropriation\" of the \"Mona Lisa\", \"L.H.O.O.Q.\". \n\nThe movement wound down in the mid-1890s.\n\nThe Incoherent arts were born in the late nineteenth century, a period that was rich in scientific discoveries and social innovations. Cheeky and inventive, this time also marks a turning point in the field of art. The official art traditions were even being questioned in the newspapers through satirical images which implied it was a dying craft. It was in this creative lull that Jules Levy - former member of the literary club Hydropathes - decided to organize \"an exhibition of drawings made by people who can not draw.\" This charitable carnival helped victims of a recent gas explosion to have an opportunity to present their works. The first \"Incoherent arts\" get-together, which took place on July 13, 1882 on the Champs Elysées hosts many curiosities. Taking advantage of a power outage, and lit only by candlelight, they created a jumble of rebellious works, using all types of materials and any inspiration with the ultimate goal of making people laugh. \n\nOn October 2, 1882, Jules Lévy decided to repeat the experience at home. He gathered his friends under the pretense of having an \"unusual evening\". In his tiny apartment they worked under the phrase \"Death to clichés, to us young people!\" They received unexpected success and lots of newspaper coverage. As a result, the Incohérents arts movement became engrained into the Parisian cultural landscape. In October 1883 the Paris had its first official exhibition of Incoherent art, ran by local Galerie Vivienne. The purpose was charitable as with all Incoherent exhibits thereafter. A regulation 13-point proclamation was that \"All the works are allowed, the serious works and obscene excepted\". The exhibition adopts a true catalog, including a piece by Levy Orville in which he reverses an inkwell for the sake of aesthetics. The tone of the exhibition was set by an abundance of parodies and pictorial puns. More than 20,000 visitors took part over a month. \n\nA year later, the Incoherents returned to haunt the Galerie Vivienne with their cheeky pranks. They hoped this occasion would see the image of the \"Chief pipes Poyle sand without number, on a silver field,\" an ancient statue carving chisel of an academician who does not lead wide. A catalog accompanied the exhibition with luxury engraved reproductions of most of the significant works. On its cover, a dancer brandishes a broom and scares away the gloom of black birds. The journalists accompanied the event with enthusiasm. The artists were increasingly familiarizing themselves with the pictorial map and the pun, both of which helped to establish this kind of \"Incoherent\" art. In 1886 the Incoherents at the Eden Theatre unveiled their new exhibit. Jules Chéret's poster included Levy going through the moon like a paper hoop. At the entrance, the rules regarding the event were framed prominently: \"One goal you propose, laugh and cheer you frankly.\" The room was also full of visitors that worked in high, medium or low relief. Everything was recorded in catalog records which are decorated with \"striking\" portraits of exhibitors and zany references. \n\nIn 1886 Jules Levy began to be the target of criticism. He was accused of using the Incoherent Arts for its own interests. He had in fact opened a publishing house in 1886 and published the works of his friends (Goudeau, Leroy, Monselet, etc..), illustrated by artists such as Boutet, Somm or Gray. He gradually lost the support of the French Courrier who had declared him as \"the official unofficial Incoherent\" in 1884. Meanwhile, some seeking to take advantage of the Incoherent movement by opening Incoherent cafes or established magazine operations, that the founders of the movement had nothing to do with. In 1887 Jules Levy promised the end of Inconsistency would be on April 16 of that year. A costume party was organized for the occasion with a Folies Bergère funeral procession. However, Incoherence has a brief renaissance on March 27, 1889 at a new dance held at the Eden Theatre. Levy wanted this event to remind the good memories of the Incoherent arts and to announce the return of his exhibitions. But in the spring of the 1889 exhibition he organized, while the Expo was in full swing in Paris, it was a fiasco. The press hardly covered the event, and even the French Courier remained silent. The Incoherent arts was no longer a novelty interest. Jules Levy, refusing to give up, created the magazine \"Folies Bergère\" in January 1891. Poorly organized, not repeated, the show is considered too long and the ball too short.\nThe last gasp of the inconsistency, his exhibition of 1893 had a brand new premise at Olympia, and passed almost unnoticed. Jules Blois of the French Mail wrote: \"All that is outdated, outmoded. Inconsistency joined decadence, decay and other jokes with or without handles in the bag of old fashioned chiffes\" Despite that, Levy still pulled on the Incoherent string until 1896 when it was met with massive indifference from the press.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44063542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44063542", "title": "Jasleen Dhamija", "text": "Jasleen Dhamija\n\nJasleen Dhamija (born 1933 ) is a veteran Indian textile art historian, crafts expert and former UN worker. Based in Delhi, she is best known for her pioneering research on the handloom and handicraft industry, especially history of textiles and costumes. She has remained professor of living cultural traditions at the University of Minnesota. Over the years, during her career as a textile revivalist and scholar, she has authored several books on textiles, including \"Sacred Textiles of India\" (2014).\n\nDhamija grew up in Abbotabad, in the North Western Frontier Province, before her family migrated to Delhi in 1940, where they lived in Khyber Pass locality of Civil Lines, Delhi, and graduated from Miranda House, University of Delhi.\n\nShe started her career in 1954, with culture and craft revivalist Kamaladevi Chattopadhyay in the Government of India, and started working on craft revival, community development and women's employment. In the 1960s, she worked with the Handicrafts Board of India, next she started working with artisans directly in rural area, this in time lead to her work with the UN developing self-help programmes for women in war-torn Balkan countries.\n\nOver the years, she has curated several textile and crafts exhibitions. Besides several books, on crafts and textile, she has also written two cookbooks, including \"Joy of Vegetarian Cooking\" (2000). In 2007, she published a biography of Kamaladevi Chattopadhyay and her role in the revival of the arts and crafts in modern India.\n\nShe has remained faculty at the National Institute of Fashion Technology, New Delhi, where she taught History of Indian Textiles and costumes.\n\n"}
{"id": "46200037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46200037", "title": "Kali Bari Chhindwara", "text": "Kali Bari Chhindwara\n\nKali Bari Chhindwara () is a temple dedicated to Goddess Kali and the center of Bengali culture in Chhindwara, India. Established in 1995, the deity in the temple is Maa Kali.\n\nThe temple is one of its kinds in Central India with its unique architecture that resembles the famous Dakshineswar Kali Temple near Kolkata.\n\nDevotees from all of religions and castes come during worship at the temple.\n\nThe temple lies in the southern ranges of the Satpura Range at at dense forested city Chhindwara of Indian state Madhya Pradesh. It has an average altitude of above mean sea level.\nThe temple is located on the Kali Bari Road, Dharam Tekri, Chhindwara.\n\nThe temple is located in the heart of Chhindwara city. Chhindwara is well reachable by rail or road from adjacent cities Nagpur, Jabalpur & Bhopal and rest of the India. Chhindwara railway station & City Bus Terminal both are 2 km far from the temple. The nearest airports are Chhindwara (5 km) & Nagpur (120 km).\n\nOn various occasion like Kali Puja (Diwali), Durga Puja, Sankranti & Navaratri thousands of devotees are gathered at the temple for worship. Various festivals like Bengali New Year, Ravindra Jayanti, Shri Ram Krishna Jayanti, Vivekananda Jayanti are organized at here. Bengali people of Chhindwara District are also arranged various get together and cultural programs at the community hall of the temple.\n\nAfter several years of demands by the people from all of the religions of Chhindwara District for construction of a Kali Bari at Chhindwara City, an action plan was drawn to form a committee with the name Kali Bari Nirman Samiti. The initial goal to the committee was to make a plan for construction of temple & organizing fund. Later on committee was worked for selection of site, making blue print of drawings, and take necessary actions for construction of temple.\n\nLike any major rivers originating as a small stream, Kali Bari Nirman Samiti, Chhindwara also had a humble beginning. In 1995, when a group of enthusiastic members of Bengali Durga Puja Committee Chhindwara, the oldest Bengali cultural organization of the district, take initiative with an objective for constructing a Kali temple at Chhindwara.\n\nSubsequently, with the overwhelming support and participation of all residents of district, the construction of the exquisitely beautiful pristine white marble store complex was completed and idols of Maa Kali was installed in the sanctum sanctorum of the new temple with all religious rituals. Later on idol of Lord Shiva was established in a newly constructed Shiva Temple.\n\nKali Bari Chhindwara is controlled by a local governing committee known as Kali Bari Nirman Samiti. Most of the committee members are from city Bengali association and from all of the religions also.\n\nThe committee is responsible for arranging fund, taking various legal approvals, co-ordination with district administration, organizing various kinds of activities, controlling over the crowd during festivals, Daily Puja & Aarti, organizing bhog-prasad after puja, informing the community about dates and schedules, maintenance & renovation and Safety & Security of temple property.\n\nMission:\n\nMain mission is to propagate harmonious, social, cultural and moral values and beliefs and to foster a sense of universal brotherhood in tune with the great spiritual heritage of Nation.\n\nOther missions are:\n\nVision:\n\nThe primary objective is to manage the affairs of Kali Bari Chhindwara in respect of temple and proposed dharmashala, school, charitable dispensary and community hall for all.\n\nKali Bari is situated on a plateau, surrounded by the lush green fields, rivers and sagaun trees. It is surrounded by dense forest with diverse flora and fauna.\n\nSeveral National Parks are nearby located from the temple, including the Kanha, Pench, Satpura National Park, Pachmarhi Biosphere Reserve, Bori Reserve Forest etc.\n\nOrange city Nagpur (120 km), Marvel city Jabalpur (205 km) & Lake city Bhopal (325 km) are the nearby metro cities. Patalkot, India (60 km) and Pachmarhi (130 km) are the nearest Hill Station.\n\nTemple committee has celebrated various festivals like Indian Independence Day celebration, Indian Republic Day celebration etc. Recently Kali Bari Chhindwara has organized a free dental check-up campaign for the residential of Chhindwara. During Navaratri festival devotees light Jyoti Kalash, in temple premises to appease Devi.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2512571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2512571", "title": "Languages of Russia", "text": "Languages of Russia\n\nOf all the languages of Russia, Russian is the only official language at the national level. There are 35 different languages which are considered official languages in various regions of Russia, along with Russian. There are over 100 minority languages spoken in Russia today.\n\nRussian was the sole official language of the Russian Empire which existed until 1917. During the Soviet period, the policy toward the languages of the various other ethnic groups fluctuated in practice. The state helped develop alphabets and grammar for various languages across the country that had previously been lacking a written form. Though each of the constituent republics had its own official language, the unifying role, and superior status was reserved for Russian.\n\nRussia lost its status in many of the new republics that arose following the 1991 dissolution of the Soviet Union. In Russia, however, the dominating status of the Russian language continued. Today, 97% of the public school students of Russia receive their education only or mostly in Russian, even though Russia is made up of approximately 80% ethnic Russians.\n\nAlthough Russian is the only federally official language of the Russian Federation, there are several other officially recognized languages within Russia's various constituencies – article 68 of the Constitution of Russia only allows the various republics of Russia to establish official (state) languages other than Russian. This is a list of the languages that are recognized as official (state) in constitutions of the republics of Russia:\n\nThe Constitution of Dagestan defines \"Russian and the languages of the peoples of Dagestan\" as the state languages, though no comprehensive list of the languages was given. In the project of the \"Law on the languages of the Republic of Dagestan\" 32 languages are listed.\n\nKarelia is the only republic of Russia with Russian as the only official language. However, there exists the special law about state support and protection of the Karelian, Vepsian and Finnish languages in the republic.\n\nThe federal law \"On the languages of the peoples of the Russian Federation\" allows the federal subjects to establish additionally official languages in the areas where minority groups live. This is the case, for example, of the Kazakh language in Altai Republic.\n\nAs a result of mass migration to Russia from the former USSR republics (especially from the Caucasus and Central Asia) many non-indigenous languages are spoken by migrant workers, among them most prominent are (from 2010 Census, in thousands):\n\nHowever, many migrant workers were not counted in the Census and many work illegally, so these numbers may be much greater. Compare 2.4 million Uzbek citizens and 1.2 million Tajik citizens entered Russia in 2014.\n\nSome groups such as Kazakhs of Altay Republic, Armenians from Myasnikovsky District, Azerbaijanis from Derbent are not recent immigrants and have lived in their area for a long period of time.\n\nThere are many endangered languages in Russia. Some are considered to be near extinction and put on the list of endangered languages in Russia, and some may have gone extinct since data was last reported. On the other hand, some languages may survive even with few speakers.\n\nSome languages have doubtful data, like Serbian whose information in the Ethnologue is based on the 1959 census.\n\nMost numbers are according to Michael Krauss, 1995. Given the time that has passed, languages with extremely few speakers might be extinct today. Since 1997, Kerek and Yugh have become extinct. \n\n\nAccording to the various studies made in 2005-2008 by Levada-Center 15% of Russians know a foreign language. From those who claim knowledge of at least one language:\n\nKnowledge of at least one foreign language is predominant among younger and middle-aged population. Among aged 18–24 38% can read and \"translate with a dictionary\", 11% can freely read and speak. Among aged 25–39 these numbers are 26% and 4% respectively.\n\nKnowledge of a foreign language varies among social groups. It is most appreciable (15-18%) in big cities with 100,000 and more inhabitants, while in Moscow it rises up to 35%. People with higher education and high economical and social status are most expected to know a foreign language.\n\nThe new study by Levada-Center in April 2014 reveals such numbers:\nThe age and social profiling are the same: knowledge of a foreign language is predominant among the young or middle-aged population with higher education and high social status and who live in big cities.\n\nIn the 18th and 19th centuries, French was a common language among upper class Russians. The impetus came from Peter the Great's orientation of Russia towards Europe and accelerated after the French Revolution. After the Russians fought France in the Napoleonic Wars, Russia became less inclined towards French.\n\nEvery year the Russian Ministry of Education and Science publishes statistics on the languages used in schools. In 2014/2015 absolute majority (13.1 million or 96%) of 13.7 million Russian students used Russian as a medium of education. Around 1.6 million or 12% students studied their (non-Russian) native language as a subject. The most studied languages are Tatar, Chechen and Chuvash with 347, 253, 107 thousand students respectively.\n\nThe most studied foreign languages in 2013/2014 were (students in thousands): \n\n\n"}
{"id": "55922126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55922126", "title": "Lanttusupikas", "text": "Lanttusupikas\n\nLanttusupikas, also known as Syrjikäs, is a double folded buttered flaky crust pie, filled with thin, braised swede slices and pork loin. It is a traditional Finnish pastry.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31659734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31659734", "title": "Lemon (short story)", "text": "Lemon (short story)\n\n\"Lemon\" (, \"Remon\") is a collection of short stories by Japanese author Motojirō Kajii. \"Lemon\" was written in 1924 and was published as Kajii's first doujinshi. It was a 28-page handmade book: 4.25\" x 5.5\", staple-bound. The interior was color printed, with several high quality black-and-white photographs. The cover had a spine and a full color photograph on the front.\n\n\"Lemon\" is one of Kajii's few works to have been translated into English. Although he was a relatively unknown writer during his short lifetime who published in a few literary magazines, Kajii's poetic short stories are recognized today as masterpieces in Japan. The eponymous story \"Lemon\" is known as his representative work.\n\nThe protagonist, who has diseased lungs, is tormented by strange anxiety all the time. He lost his interest in the stationery store Maruzen, music, and poetry that he had been interested in before. He only continues walking around aimlessly in Kyoto.\n\nIn one such incident, he visits a fruit shop he likes on a regular basis through Teramati (Kyoto Miyako Naka-ku \"八百卯; Eight Hundred Rabbit,\" closed January 25, 2009). There were rare lemons placed side by side. He bought one lemon that he was interested in; the coldness of the fruit in his hand was just right. After that, he felt uncomfortable, even though he stopped by his favorite shop, Maruzen, he began feeling uneasy.\n\nHe felt an unchanged feeling of dissatisfaction. Even though he looked at the usual picture albums that he used to like, he put the lemon as a time bomb on the pile of illustrations. Then he imagines the works of fine art flying out of the Maruzen shop, the excitement of blasting a lemon as a time bomb.\n\nHe was satisfied with what he had done at the end.\n\nThis short story describes the feeling of an ailing patient and the mischievous emotions which every person has. Kajii wrote many other works which had a main character with lung disease because the author was affected by tuberculosis himself. His life was a fight against poverty and sickness (he died from tuberculosis at the age of 31).\n\nMaruzen was still near Sanjodori, Huyachotori in Kyoto at that time. After \"Lemon\" was published, it is said there was no end to people who continued leaving a lemon at Maruzen store in Kyoto (closed in October 2005).\n\n"}
{"id": "53923887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53923887", "title": "Lilith, The Legend of the First Woman", "text": "Lilith, The Legend of the First Woman\n\nLilith, The Legend of the First Woman is a 19th-century narrative poem in five books, written by the American poet, Ada Langworthy Collier, in 1885, and published in Boston by D Lothrop & Company. It has been reprinted several times in the 21st century.\n\n\"Lilith, The Legend of the First Woman\" is a 19th-century rendition of the old Rabbinical legend of Lilith, the first woman, whose life story was dropped unrecorded from the early world, and whose home, hope, and Eden were passed to another woman. The author warns us in her preface that she has not followed the legend closely. In her hands, Lilith becomes an embodiment of mother-love that has existed forever, and it is her name that lends its itself to the lullabys repeated to young children.\n\nCollier not only freely changes the legend of Lilith, but is free with the unities of her own story. It is full of internal inconsistencies in narrative, and anachronisms. The legend (doubtless made to reconcile the two accounts in the Book of Genesis of the creation of woman, the first of which represents her made with man, and by implication, coequal; and the other as created second and subordinate), is to the effect that God first created Adam and Lilith, equal in authority; that the clashing this led to was so great, that Lilith was cast out from Eden, and the marital experiment tried again, on a different principle, by the creation of Eve. Lilith thereafter wedded Eblis, the prince of devils, and became the mother of demons and specters; and in vengeance upon her rival, Eve, the mother of mankind, became the special enemy of babies, whom she strangles with a thread of her golden hair. The obvious injustice to Lilith— who seems to have asked no more than her fair half, while Adam was the encroacher, on the assumption that they were created equal —inspired Collier's version of the legend, according to which Lilith leaves Eden voluntarily, rather than submit to dominance, but loses thereby the blessing of motherhood. This alone, not either Adam or Eden, she envies Eve, and at last steals the coveted first human baby, which dies, bereft of its mother, and so gives Lilith the reputation in legend of being a child-murderess.\n\nWhen Collier discovered that the word \"lullaby\" (Lilla, abi—begone, Lilith!) denoted the songs which mothers soothed their babies, she adapted Lilith's acquired modern meaning, wholly removed from its original signification, into this poem. It enabled Collier to evolve the idea that Lilith, instead of being a fiend, was really a creature of strong maternal instincts and it is in this character that Lilith was presented.\n\nCreated Adam's equal alike in stature, strength and power, Lilith's spirit is chafed by Adam's insistence on his own supremacy and her subjection, and rather than yield she chooses to find her own paradise without the walls. \nAccording to Collier's narrative, Lilith, having left the Garden of Eden, never to return, goes out into the world. For a time, she enjoys the pleasure in Nature's companionship. Far from Eden, she finds a beautiful land where she can rule supreme, though lonely. It is here that she is wooed by Eblis, the fallen angel and prince of the powers of the air, who forgets to mourn the heaven he lost in the heaven of Lilith's love.\n\nEblis woos Lilith and she becomes his wife. Lilith's children are little imps without affection for her or her maternal yearnings; in fact, they torture her. When Lilith starts thinking about Eden, Eblis takes her there and, upon looking over its wall, she is annoyed to see Adam with another wife, Eve, who is breastfeeding. Lilith's discovery that she has been supplanted and that Eve's child loves its mother, arouses jealousy and later, Lilith steals the baby, devoting all her affectionate and attention to it, but the child subsequently grows ill. After Adam and Eve are driven from the Garden, Lilith relents and takes the child back to its mother, in whose arms it afterwards dies, and Lilith returns to her own land.\nWakeman stated that Lilith is described as a graceful creation, but the effect of her appearance might have been enhanced if Eblis had been pictured darker in character. Eve is described as love and tenderness, while Adam's characteristics are not strongly marked.The poem has many beautiful, descriptive passages. It is generally smooth in its metrical expression, employing iambics. Kerr critiqued that while the story's verse was unequaled, the poem lacks sustained power. A certain looseness in the construction of sentences implies that the work didn't undergo much revision. In a third review it is said that while Collier's descriptive powers were analytical and microscopic, there is a sameness which results in too often exhibiting one picture in different lights.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45269820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45269820", "title": "List of Doctor Who radio stories", "text": "List of Doctor Who radio stories\n\nDoctor Who is a British science fiction television programme produced by the BBC. The show has been a large influence in the media since its inception. 1966 saw the first radio broadcast of the show.\n\nThere have been many \"Doctor Who\" radio broadcasts over the years. In addition to a small number of in-house BBC productions, a larger number of radio plays produced by Big Finish began to be broadcast on BBC Radio 7 from 2005, featuring the Eighth Doctor (again played by Paul McGann) with mainstay companions Charley Pollard and later Lucie Miller. Initially, these were broadcasts of Big Finish productions that had already been released on CD. However, the series that began with \"Blood of the Daleks\" and concluded with \"Human Resources\" was specially commissioned by the BBC from Big Finish for broadcast prior to the CD release. Many more of these were released on CD than were broadcast on the radio; only those plays broadcast by the BBC are listed here. See the list of Doctor Who audio releases as a starting point for other audio plays and audio books, notably the List of \"Doctor Who\" audio plays by Big Finish which includes more plays than were broadcast.\n\nThe following are all Eighth Doctor dramas produced by Big Finish and broadcast on BBC Radio 7.\n\nIn 2011, BBC Radio 4 Extra aired a series of three Fifth Doctor dramas produced by Big Finish. They continued with five more from September 2015.\n\nDecember 2011 saw the broadcast of the Fourth Doctor audio \"Hornets' Nest\" on BBC Radio 4 Extra. In May 2015, the first series of Fourth Doctor adventures from Big Finish Productions was broadcast featuring Tom Baker and Louise Jameson.\n\nIn 2012, BBC Radio 4 Extra began a series of Seventh Doctor dramas produced by Big Finish.\n\nIn 2016, BBC Radio 4 Extra began a series of Sixth Doctor dramas produced by Big Finish.\n\nBBC Radio 4 Extra has aired some of BBC Audio's audiobook readings of Classic Series novelisations, all read by Tom Baker.\n\nIn 2013, BBC Radio 4 Extra broadcast 8 audio adventures and talking books from both Big Finish and Audio Go under the title of \"Doctor Who at 50\".\n\n\"Death Comes to Time\" was released on CD by the BBC, and later re-released as an MP3 CD featuring the original illustrations. \"Real Time\" and \"Shada\" were released on CD by Big Finish. The webcast for Shada was released on DVD on 7 January 2013 as part of 'The Legacy Collection' and is only viewable on a PC or MAC. \"Scream of the Shalka\" was released in novel form in the \"Past Doctor Adventures\" series. While it has been classified for DVD release by the BBFC, a planned release was postponed due to the programme's return to television. It was later released on 16 September 2013.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20638697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20638697", "title": "List of action film directors", "text": "List of action film directors\n\nAction film directors guide the filming and creative elements in action movies, a film genre where action sequences, such as fights, shootouts, stunts, car chases or explosions either take precedence, or, in finer examples of the genre, are used as a form of exposition and character development. Action movie directors may also blend other genres into their films, such as romance, science fiction, or even comedy (e.g. \"Rush Hour\"). This genre is closely linked with those of thriller and adventure films.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41390737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41390737", "title": "List of art critics", "text": "List of art critics\n\nThis incomplete list of art critics enumerates persons who had or have a significant part of their known creative output in the form of art criticism, which consists mostly of the written discussion and aesthetic evaluation of works of art.\n\nThere is no official list of art critics, the compilation of which is compounded by problems in defining art criticism – not least of which is the overlap with art history, and philosophy of art. Herein will be included those authors that are mentioned as being art critics or producing art criticism in works of reference, as are encyclopedias, dictionaries or scholarly reviews.\n\nAccording to one authority, art criticism, in a close approximation to the current sociocultural framework of the activity, started in the 18th century CE in Western Europe. However, many authors living before that time and outside that region of the world wrote on the subject of art and aesthetic experience, though using terms and concepts that may not have a direct translation into the lexicon of the Western tradition. These, when mentioned, will be included as well though pertinently noted.\n"}
{"id": "18342931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18342931", "title": "Literal (magazine)", "text": "Literal (magazine)\n\nLiteral: Latin American Voices is a quarterly cultural magazine focusing on art, architecture, literature, politics, culture, writers, intellectualism and current world events. It publishes most of its articles in both English and Spanish. It distributes nationwide in Mexico, the United States and Canada.\n\n\"Literal\" was founded in 2004 by Rose Mary Salum. Its purpose is to provide a medium for the critique and diffusion of the Latin American literature and art, recognizing its potential strength as a point of departure for understanding.\n\n\"Literal\" has won 2 Council of Editors of Learned Journals (CELJ) Awards and four Lone Star Awards.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "57337795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57337795", "title": "Mikhail Leitman", "text": "Mikhail Leitman\n\nMikhail Borisovich Leitman (; 14 January 1937, Baku — 11 February 2002, Rehovot) was a Russian-Jewish scientist and an IT specialist.\n\nOn 14 January 1947, Leitman was born as Mikhail Borisovich Leitman in Baku, USSR. Leitman's father was Boris Mikhailovich Leitman (1912—1970), one of the most prominent leaders of the construction industry of Azerbaijan SSR. \nLeitman's uncles Isaak Mikhailovich (1908-1938) and Saul Mikhailovich (1910-1990) were repeatedly persecuted in the 1920s and 1930s by Soviet authorities.\n\nIn 1953, Leitman graduated from Baku Secondary School.\n\nIn 1959, Leitman graduated from Azerbaijan Industrial Institute, with honors in Automation, Telemechanics and Electrical Measurement. In 1964 he defended his thesis and continued to work at the Institute. Leitman worked as an engineer and conducted research on the topic of methods of depth measurements in wells.\n\nIn August 1966, Leitman began working at the Department of Automation and Remote Control of the Smolensk branch of Moscow Power Engineering Institute (MPEI), and soon was appointed head of this Department.\n\nAlong with teaching, he conducted extensive scientific research work, on the basis of which he consulted post-graduate students, forming his own school in the field of Information technology. In August 1990 he emigrated from USSR and worked in several United States-based companies which established broadband Internet network and tried to solve other relevant IT problems.\n\nLeitman died on 11 February 2002 in Rehovot, Israel.\n\nHe was the author of more than 200 scientific works. Veteran of Labour.\n\nLeitman's son is Alexander Chernitsky, a Russian writer and historian.\n\n"}
{"id": "12496011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12496011", "title": "Ministry of Culture (Norway)", "text": "Ministry of Culture (Norway)\n\nThe Royal Norwegian Ministry of Culture () is responsible for cultural policy, regulations and other matters related to the media and sports. The ministry was established in 1982, at which time it was called the Ministry of Cultural and Scientific Affairs. Until then, the Ministry of Church and Education had had the overriding responsibility for cultural affairs in Norway. It is led by Trine Skei Grande (Liberal). The ministry reports to the Storting.\n\n\nThe ministry is divided into six departments and an information unit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1977435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1977435", "title": "Moralia", "text": "Moralia\n\nThe Moralia ( \"Ethika\"; loosely translated as \"Morals\" or \"Matters relating to customs and mores\") of the 1st-century Greek scholar Plutarch of Chaeronea is an eclectic collection of 78 essays and transcribed speeches. They provide insights into Roman and Greek life, but often are also timeless observations in their own right. Many generations of Europeans have read or imitated them, including Michel de Montaigne and the Renaissance Humanists and Enlightenment philosophers.\n\nThe \"Moralia\" include \"On the Fortune or the Virtue of Alexander the Great\"—an important adjunct to his Life of the great general—\"On the Worship of Isis and Osiris\" (a crucial source of information on Egyptian religious rites), and \"On the Malice of Herodotus\" (which may, like the orations on Alexander's accomplishments, have been a rhetorical exercise), in which Plutarch criticizes what he sees as systematic bias in the \"Histories\" of Herodotus;.\" along with more philosophical treatises, such as \"On the Decline of the Oracles\", \"On the Delays of the Divine Vengeance\", \"On Peace of Mind\" and lighter fare, such as \"Odysseus and Gryllus\", a humorous dialog between Homer's Odysseus and one of Circe's enchanted pigs. The \"Moralia\" were composed first, while writing the Lives occupied much of the last two decades of Plutarch's own life.\n\nSome editions of the \"Moralia\" include several works now known to be pseudepigrapha: among these are the \"Lives of the Ten Orators\" (biographies of the Attic orators based on Caecilius of Calacte), \"On the Opinions of the Philosophers\", \"On Fate\", and \"On Music\". One \"Pseudo-Plutarch\" is held responsible for all of these works, though their authorship is unknown. Though the thoughts and opinions recorded are not Plutarch's and come from a slightly later era, they are all classical in origin and have value to the historian.\n\nSince the Stephanus edition of 1572, the \"Moralia\" have traditionally been arranged in 14 books, as in the following list which includes the English, the original Greek and the Latin title:\n\nThe only surviving manuscript containing all seventy-eight of the extant treatises included in Plutarch's \"Moralia\" dates to sometime shortly after 1302 AD.\n\n\nIn his essay \"The Symposiacs,\" Plutarch discusses the famous problem of the chicken and the egg. Although Plutarch was not the first person to discuss the problem (Aristotle had already discussed it hundreds of years before Plutarch), he was the first person to put the question into its modern form.\n\nIncluded in \"Moralia\" is letter addressed by Plutarch to his wife, bidding her not give way to excessive grief at the death of their two-year-old daughter, who was named Timoxena after her mother. In the letter, Plutarch seems to hint at a possible belief in reincarnation:\n\nMind or Nous (, Greek: ) is a philosophical term for intellect. In \"Moralia\", Plutarch agrees with Plato that the soul is more divine than the body while \"nous\" is more divine than the soul. The mix of soul and body produces pleasure and pain; the conjunction of mind and soul produces reason which is the cause or the source of virtue and vice.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3011086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3011086", "title": "Nomikai", "text": "Nomikai\n\nA is a drinking party phenomenon particular to Japanese culture. \"Nomikai\" are a part of the culture of most places of employment, from schools to nightclubs. They are most often held in restaurants or \"izakaya\", usually with everyone seated at one large table or occupying a separated section of the venue.\n\nEmployees are usually expected to participate to some extent in various \"nomikai\", as it is considered a social aspect of work, although it is not expressly required. Such parties focus on the bond between coworkers as a group, and are not considered private or somehow non-work related (see Japanese values). Attendance does not necessarily imply that a person will drink any alcohol, however, and attendees generally pay a set amount for the food, drink, and venue regardless of consumption. Any leftover money may be put toward organizing the next \"nomikai\".\n\nThe student version of the \"nomikai\" is called a \"konpa\" and contains some distinguishing characteristics.\n\n\"Nomikai\" are held to mark a wide range of events, including completion of major projects, attainment of set goals, foundation anniversaries, school sporting events, entry of new coworkers, and retirement of senior employees. There is always at least one responsible for the preparation of the venue. This is usually not the same person or persons for whom the \"nomikai\" takes place.\n\nWith the exception of the end of year , most nomikai consist of workers in one section or department of the workplace. In the case of the \"bōnenkai\", everyone in the entire company may be present. In large companies, however, separate \"bōnenkai\"s are often the norm for each department. Additionally, there may be both kinds of \"bōnenkai\" on separate dates. For example, there may be a math department \"bōnenkai\" on one day, with a school-wide \"bōnenkai\" for all teachers the following week.\n\nAt onset of the \"nomikai\", the organizers give a brief welcome speech, followed by the manager, president, or principal, who offers words of reflection and encouragement. The monologue is punctuated by a toast after which everyone begins eating and drinking. If there are new employees or guests at the \"nomikai\", it is customary for them also to give a self-introduction and salutation to the other members.\n\n\"Nomikai\" are nearly always concluded after a few hours by everyone standing, clapping in unison. There are two main styles of clapping: \"ippon-jime\" and \"sanbon-jime\". These translate roughly to \"one-clap ending\" and \"three-clap ending\", respectively. A three-clap ending is actually three series of three claps, followed by a single clap. Often this is repeated three times, leaving the total number of claps at thirty. Sometimes the \"shime\" (ending) may happen in conjunction with a verbose salute to the organizer or honored participant, or the singing of the company or school song.\n\nThe is the afterparty. After the main nomikai is concluded, the attendees often break into smaller groups and move to different bars. As attendance is not at all mandatory for nijikai, they usually are groups of friends or people interested in doing a lot of drinking, including bar-hopping. Drinking that comes after a \"nijikai\" is referred to as .\n\nDuring \"nomikai\" there are rules of etiquette which are generally followed. Generally, one tries to avoid filling one's own glass, but instead offers to fill others' for them. This is especially true of senpai-kōhai relationships, where the participant of lower rank or age will first offer to serve his superior. This relationship is often reciprocal, and the superior will offer to fill the junior's glass in return. This is not perceived so much as currying favor as it is seen as acting in a manner conducive to workplace harmony (see Wa).\n\nAnother point of etiquette which differs from Western business culture is that it is considered acceptable to become drunk at \"nomikai\". In the same vein, things said and done under such circumstances are not taken seriously, but are forgiven or ignored upon return to the workplace. Consequently, there are sometimes frank and emotional displays between coworkers, regardless of rank, which may not occur in a normal workplace context. This phenomenon is called in Japanese.\n\nOn the other hand, it is generally regarded as unacceptable to pressure people into drinking alcohol or consuming more of it than they want. Participants may drink non-alcoholic beverages or leave a glass full to signal that they are not willing to drink any (more) alcohol.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "352149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=352149", "title": "Oath of the Peach Garden", "text": "Oath of the Peach Garden\n\nThe Oath of the Peach Garden is a fictional event in the historical novel \"Romance of the Three Kingdoms\" by Luo Guanzhong. This event is set at the end of the Eastern Han dynasty around the time of the Yellow Turban Rebellion in the 180s A.D. Liu Bei, Guan Yu and Zhang Fei took an oath of fraternity in a ceremony in the Peach Garden (believed to be in present-day Zhuozhou, Hebei), and became sworn brothers from then on. Their goal in taking the oath was to protect the Han Empire from the Yellow Turban rebels. The oath bound the three men, who would later play important roles in the establishment of the state of Shu Han during the Three Kingdoms period. It is also often alluded to as a symbol of fraternal loyalty.\n\nThe oath, as it appears in the Wikisource translation of Chapter 1 of \"Romance of the Three Kingdoms\", was this:\n\nWhen saying the names Liu Bei, Guan Yu and Zhang Fei, although the surnames are different, yet we have come together as brothers. From this day forward, we shall join forces for a common purpose: to save the troubled and to aid the endangered. We shall avenge the nation above, and pacify the citizenry below. We seek not to be born on the same day, in the same month and in the same year. We merely hope to die on the same day, in the same month and in the same year. May the Gods of Heaven and Earth attest to what is in our hearts. If we should ever do anything to betray our friendship, may heaven and the people of the earth both strike us dead.\nIn many other translations, only the section dealing with \"dying on the selfsame day\" is present. However, the three brothers do not die on the same day: Guan Yu was killed by Sun Quan's forces in 220; Zhang Fei was assassinated by his subordinates in 221; Liu Bei died of illness in 223, a year after his disastrous defeat at the Battle of Xiaoting.\n\nThere is no mention of the three men becoming sworn brothers in Chen Shou's \"Records of the Three Kingdoms\", the authoritative source for the history of the late Eastern Han dynasty and the Three Kingdoms period. However, in Guan Yu's biography, their relationship was described to be \"as close as brothers\", to the point of \"sharing the same bed\". Zhang Fei's biography also mentioned that Guan Yu was older than Zhang Fei, so Zhang regarded Guan as an elder brother.\n\nThe oath inspired the present-day secret societies in Chinese communities, such as the triads, to use a similar ritual when swearing in new members. \"Though not born on the same day of the same month in the same year, we hope to die so\" — the phrase the three brothers made during the oath — had also become popular among present-day secret society members.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3650822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3650822", "title": "Parallelism (rhetoric)", "text": "Parallelism (rhetoric)\n\nParallelism is a rhetorical device that compounds words or phrases that have equivalent meanings so as to create a definite pattern. This structure is particularly effective when \"specifying or enumerating pairs or series of like things\". A scheme of balance, parallelism represents \"one of the basic principles of grammar and rhetoric\".\n\nParallelism as a rhetorical device is used in many languages and cultures around the world in poetry, epics, songs, written prose and speech, from the folk level to the professional. It is very often found in Biblical poetry and in proverbs in general. \n\nThe following sentences and verses possess \"similarity in structure\" in words and phrases:\n\nIn the quote above, the compounded adjectives serve as parallel elements and support the noun \"law\".\n\nIn the above quote, three prepositional phrases produce the parallel structure supporting the noun \"purpose\". Note that this rhetorical device requires that the coordinate elements agree with one another grammatically: \"nouns with nouns, prepositional phrases with prepositional phrases and adverb clauses with adverb clauses.\" \n\nWhen the coordinate elements possess that same number of words (or in the example below, the same number of syllables) the scheme is termed isocolon:\n\nParallelisms of various sorts are the chief rhetorical device of Biblical poetry in the Tristich and in multiples of Distich parallels and also in the poetry of many other cultures around the world, particularly in their oral traditions. Robert Lowth coined the term \"parallelismus membrorum\" (parallelism of members, i.e. poetic lines) in his 1788 book, \"Lectures on the Sacred Poetry of the Hebrew Nation\". Roman Jakobson pioneered the secular study of parallelism in poetic-linguistic traditions around the world, including his own Russian tradition. \n\nChinese and Vietnamese classical poetry and prose have frequently made use of parallelism. Conversations between learned men in many cases involved exchanging single as a form of playing with words, as well as a kind of mental duel. In a parallel couplet, not only must the content, the parts of speech, the mythological and historico-geographical allusions, be all separately matched and balanced, but most of the tones must also be paired reciprocally. Even tones are conjoined with inflected ones, and vice versa.\n\nParallelisms in artistic speech are common in some languages of Mesoamerica, such as Nahuatl (Aztec). It has also been observed in a language of Indonesia (that Fox imprecisely referred to as \"Rotinese\") and Navajo. Other research has found parallelisms in the languages of the Ural-Altaic area (including Finnish-Karelian folk poetry and the epics and songs of the Turkic and Mongolian peoples) and Toda, suggesting wider distribution among Dravidian languages.\n\nParallelisms in proverbs are very common in languages around the world. Parallel structures in short passages such as proverbs help direct the listener or reader to compare the parallel elements and thereby more easily deduce the point. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "9885188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9885188", "title": "Patsy Stone", "text": "Patsy Stone\n\nPatsy Stone is a fictional character on the UK television series \"Absolutely Fabulous\", portrayed by actress Joanna Lumley.\n\nPatsy was the last of a string of children born to an aging Czech mother in Paris, who gave birth \"like a sprinkler, scattering bastard babies all over Europe.\" In a flashback showing Patsy's birth, after telling an attendant to cut the cord, Patsy's mother exclaims that she names the child Eurydice Colette Clytemnestra Dido Bathsheba Rabelais Patricia Cocteau Stone. The only sibling seen in the series is her older sister Jackie (Kate O'Mara), a former high-class escort whom Patsy worships, despite the fact that Jackie treats her horribly and twice tried to murder her through heroin overdose. Patsy and Edina Monsoon were childhood friends, and since her mother despised and neglected her—regarding her more as a rival than a daughter—she came to rely on the Monsoons for most of her shelter, comfort, and food (though she has only been seen eating twice since 1973). She mentioned that her mother would have had an abortion, though she mistook her pregnancy for the onset of the menopause. The first few years of her life were spent locked in a room, and the rest of her childhood was dismal by Patsy's own description, without friends, parties, or presents. Although her mother eventually sent her to school, by the time she did Patsy was much older than all the other students. She claims to have forgotten everything before 1968, though occasionally memories come back to her in the form of flashbacks.\n\nAlthough Patsy claims to have been an It girl and in-demand model in 1960's Swinging London, flashbacks reveal she was totally unsuccessful, only getting work through latching on to high-profile designers and models. A flashback to the Sixties reveals Patsy wreaking havoc on the set of one of Zandra Rhodes' photo shoots. She dubs herself an \"ex-Bond girl\", but the films she starred in were actually Bond-inspired sexploitation films entitled \"Bond Meets Black Emmanuelle\", \"Boldfinger\", and \"The Man with Thunder Balls\". In \"Schmoozin'\" a group of partygoers are treated to a viewing of Patsy's 70's softcore porn film \"Booberella.\" Patsy claims to have slept with every member of the Rolling Stones, stating that \"...you didn't have a favourite Stone, you had 'em all.\" She also claims to have slept with Keith Moon (\"Well sort of. I woke up underneath him in a hotel room once.\"), and one of the Beatles, although she cannot remember which one.\n\nAt various times throughout the series it is alluded to that Patsy was at one time transgender, having undergone a sex-change operation in Morocco in the 1960s. Eddy states that this only lasted a few months, \"before it fell off\", and Elton John recognizes her as someone he slept with when she was a man.\n\nPatsy shares a codependent existence with Edina and often acts as her enabler, encouraging her to partake in addictive behaviors like smoking and drinking. The relationship usually results in hilarious, albeit dysfunctional, behaviour and over-the-top conflicts. The two usually spend their days shopping at high-end department stores and boutiques (Harvey Nichols being their favourite), going to lunch at trendy restaurants, and avoiding their respective work places. Patsy is more parasitic in her dependence than Eddie is, she spends most of her spare time at Eddie's house, drinks Eddie's booze, uses her chauffeur-driven car, and at various points lives with her, in either the attic, Saffy's bedroom, or the utility room. In \"Death\" (Series 2) Patsy attempts to convince Eddy to leave her her multimillion-pound Holland Park house in the event of Eddy's death.\n\nHer dependence on the friendship leads Patsy to sabotage any relationships which take Eddy's attention away from her, which is the root cause of her near-constant animosity towards Saffy. Patsy is also quite critical of Edina, often making passive jabs at her weight and poor fashion choices.\n\nUnlike Eddy, Patsy is usually conservatively, but stylishly, dressed and almost invariably wears her hair in a characteristic blonde beehive with a fringe she is very attached to. She has a particular fondness for couture Chanel jackets, which she wears to editorial meetings to intimidate her colleagues. Patsy was born on 30 October, although her actual age is never clearly divulged; she often states herself to be between 39 and 43. She is so obsessed with projecting youth that she uses a false passport (obtained from \"Johnny Fingers\" on the Isle of Dogs) with a doctored picture from her modelling days. In one episode (\"Cold Turkey\") a nurse guesses that she is around 65 years old. In the episode \"Happy New Year\" (Series 3), Patsy's sister Jackie reveals that she is 72 years old, to which Patsy replies \"My God, then how old does that make me?\"; suggesting that Patsy has lied about her age so often that she can no longer remember her real age. Her vanity and obsession with youth leads her to use radical beauty treatments, including sulfuric acid peels, collagen lip injections, and the Botox-like filler \"Paralox\", which takes away wrinkles but paralyses her face.\n\nAs the series progresses, Patsy betrays her age more and more, appearing to become more feeble beginning in the 4th series. In \"Menopause\" Patsy has to visit the hospital after fracturing her bones doing simple tasks, like snapping her fingers. The doctor diagnoses her with osteoporosis and declares that she has the lowest bone density on record. In \"Olympics\" she admits to using adult diapers for occasional incontinence. Her poor eyesight is evident, with Patsy often colliding with objects and having to scrutinize type and images very closely.\n\nPatsy usually seems quite cold and unemotive, especially in her behaviour toward her chief rival Saffy, but she sometimes reveals a more vulnerable side (in flashbacks to her bleak life with her mother, in her overeager admiration for the awful Jackie, and in those rare moments when Eddy temporarily withdraws her friendship) and even occasionally asks Saffy for advice. She is also prone to intense outbursts of anger, usually directed at Saffy, who constantly chastises her for her many vices and the malign influence she has on Eddy. When faced with a situation that someone else might find alarming or disconcerting, Patsy often responds with a cool \"right, cheers, thanks a lot.\"\n\nPatsy is an alcoholic, a chain smoker, and a frequent recreational drug user. She carries drugs with her at all times, storing joints in her trademark bouffant. She has nearly overdosed on several occasions, and on one occasion in the series has to have her stomach pumped after a rave-style drug binge in Edina's sitting room. In \"France\" she is detained at customs for carrying cocaine, only to be released when tests show she mistakenly bought baking powder. In \"Identity\" she is revealed to have stiffed her former dealer, Barron, of ₤50,000 worth of drugs, justifying her habit by saying \"Have you seen the price of Methadone these days? Cheaper to buy crack\". Her drinks of choice are Bollinger champagne or Stolichnaya vodka, though she will drink whatever alcohol is around. She jokes that her blood-alcohol level is so high that \"the last mosquito that bit me had to check into the Betty Ford Clinic.\" In \"Birth\" (Series 2 Ep. 6) she causes a fire in Edina's kitchen when she passes out with a lit cigarette. Her addiction to cigarettes is so strong that she carries nicotine patches in the event that she gets into a non-smoking cab, so that she can survive the journey.\n\nIn the early series, Patsy is very promiscuous and frank about her sexuality, seducing anyone she finds attractive. When the 4th series commences, Patsy's attractiveness to men has begun to wane, though she refuses to admit this and still throws herself at men. Her obsession for staying thin means that she rarely eats; she claims that she has not eaten anything since 1973, having had a \"stomach bypass\" according to Eddy. There are only 2 instances where she does eat: in the episode \"New Year's Eve\" she painfully chews and swallows a potato crisp, then is visibly shaken from having actually eaten something; and in the Christmas Special \"Cold Turkey\" she renders the entire assembly speechless by demurely asking for a small slice of turkey during Christmas lunch, but chokes it up upon eating it.\n\nThroughout the first three series, Patsy is a fashion director at an unnamed magazine similar to \"Vogue\", which she secured through sleeping with the publisher. Saffy derisively says that Patsy's job is to \"invent random adjectives for pointless clothing.\" Patsy rarely does any work or goes to the office (in \"Magazine\" she can't remember where her office is located in the building and needs to ask directions). The benefits she most enjoys are the many free products she is given and the 50% discount she gets at Harvey Nichols. She refers to herself as an \"international beauty and style guru\", boasting that she is so influential that with \"one snap of my fingers and I can raise hemlines so high that the world is your gynecologist.\"\n\nIn the episodes \"Fear\" and \"The End\" (Series 3) Patsy's magazine closes and she briefly moves to New York to take another fashion director job at \"HQ\" magazine. However she is so lonely without Eddy that she quickly returns to London. In part one of \"The Last Shout\" she is job-hunting, but blows off a job interview to go to the pub. In part two her old boss Magda (Kathy Burke) gets her a job as fashion editor at another unnamed magazine.\n\nIn the special \"Gay\" (2002), Patsy has taken a job as \"executive creative director, chief buyer and lifestyle coordinator\" for \"Jeremy's\", an upscale boutique whose clientele consists of \"rich bitches whose faces are pulled so tight they can't see what they're buying\". She also briefly attempts to become a celebrity stylist, which ends after a disastrous encounter with Minnie Driver. In \"Birthin'\" (Series 5) she is due to receive a \"Global Style and Elegance\" Award for promoting the importance of accessories, but fails to make the award show when Saffy goes into labor. In the 20th anniversary specials and the feature film, Patsy is once again working for a fashion magazine, under the direction of her old boss Magda.\n\nPatsy's colleagues at her original magazine are Catriona (Helen Lederer) and Fleur (Harriet Thorpe), who tag along on her various career moves.\n\nFor her portrayal of Patsy Stone, Joanna Lumley was nominated four different times for the Best Comedy Performance BAFTA award, winning in 1995. She also won the BAFTA for Best Light Entertainment in 1993, and a British Comedy Award the same year for best actress.\n\nThe characters of Patsy and Edina Monsoon enjoy a significant following in the LGBT community and have long been favourite subjects for drag performances.\n\n"}
{"id": "28319499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28319499", "title": "Phallus paintings in Bhutan", "text": "Phallus paintings in Bhutan\n\nPhallus paintings in Bhutan are esoteric symbols, which have their origins in the Chimi Lhakhang monastery near Punakha, the former capital of Bhutan. The village monastery was built in honour of Lama Drukpa Kunley who lived in the 15-16th century and who was popularly known as the \"Mad Saint\" (nyönpa) or “Divine Madman” for his unorthodox ways of teaching, which amounted to being bizarre and shocking. \n\nThese explicit paintings, though embarrassing to many urbanites now (this folk culture is now informally discouraged in urban centres), can be seen painted on the walls of houses and buildings throughout Bhutan, particularly in villages, and are credited as Kunley's creations. Traditionally symbols of an erect penis in Bhutan have been intended to drive away the evil eye and malicious gossip.\n\nWhile the history of use of phallus symbols is traced to Drukpa Kunley, the studies carried out at the Center of Bhutan Studies (CBS) have inferred that the phallus was an integral part of the early ethnic religion that existed in Bhutan before Buddhism became the state religion and is associated with Bon. In Bon, phallus was integral to all rituals. Dasho Lam Sanga, a former principal of the Institute of Language and Culture Studies (ILCS), while stating that there are no written documents on it, elaborates: \"But the worship of the phallus was believed to be in practice even before the arrival of Guru Rinpoche and Shabdrung Ngawang Namgyal ... What we know about it is what we heard from our forefathers.\"\n\nThe phallic symbols are, however, generally not depicted in community temples and dzongs, which are places of worship where lamas or Buddhist monks and nuns who have adopted celibate lifestyles and pursue divine ideals live. However, rural and ordinary houses continue to display them.\n\nThe often mentioned origin of the symbolic phallus is as a legacy of the popular Bhutanese saint Drukpa Kunley (1455–1529). Kunley migrated from Tibet, was trained in Ralung Monastery in Tibet, and belonged to the period of Pema Lingpa and was his disciple. He was a crazy saint who extensively travelled in Bhutan, who was fond of women and wine, and adopted blasphemous and unorthodox ways of teaching Buddhism. His sexual exploits included his hosts and promoters. He was utterly devoid of all social conventions and called himself the \"Madman from Kyishodruk.\"\n\nDrukpa Kunley's intention was to shock the clergy, who were uppity and prudish in their behaviour and teachings of Buddhism. However, his ways appealed to lay practitioners. It was he who propagated the legend of painting phalluses on walls and flying hanging phalluses from roof tops of houses to drive away evil spirits and subdue demonesses. He is, therefore, also called the \"fertility saint\", as the monastery he built, Chimi Lhakhang, is visited by not only Bhutanese women but also people from the United States and Japan.\n\nKunley's organ, as painted, is called the \"Thunderbolt of Flaming Wisdom\" as it unnerved demons and demonesses and subdued them. It is also said that he is \"perhaps the only saint in the religions of the world who is almost exclusively identified with phallus and its creative power\". It is for this reason that his phallus, as a symbol, is depicted in paintings on the walls of the houses, and he is shown in thangka paintings holding a \"wooden stick with penis head\".\nThe \"nyönpa\" lived in a place known as Lobesa close to Chimi Lhakhang to drive away demonesses and protect the local people. According to the legend, he used to hit the evil forces with his penis (or cohabited with them) and turn them into protective deities. Chimi Lhakhang was built in the mad saint's honour by his cousin on a hillock (this hillock was called by Kunley a \"woman's breast\") in a valley for the good deeds done to his people by subduing the evil forces and demonesses with his \"magic thunderbolt of wisdom\". It was built in 1499 with a square plan and a golden spire. It is approached from the Yowakha village, and all the houses on the way are painted with phallic symbols.\n\nThe monastery now houses several wooden phalluses including a silver-handled phallus (the \"Lama's Thunderbolt\"), which the mad saint is supposed to have brought from Tibet. This is now frequently used by the current lama of the monastery to hit women on the head as a blessing to beget children. The monastery is also enshrined with a statue of Lama Kunley with his pet dog Sachi. Images of Ngawang Namgyal, Gautama Buddha and Avalokiteśvara are also deified in the monastery. Women come to the monastery seeking blessings of children by getting hit on the head by the presiding lama with wooden and bone phalluses. The name of the yet-to-be-born child is also chosen by picking bamboo slips placed in the altar inscribed with names of boys and girls. It is also said that the small stupa at the altar was made by Kunley himself.\n\nIt is also argued by social science researchers that the phallus is a representation of \"Worldly illusion of desires\", and it is said that as a symbol of power and fertility of the animists of the Bön religion, the phallus's representation got enmeshed with Buddhism in Bhutan. Similar phallic depictions can be found in Thailand, Bali, and in other cultures.\n\nSeveral anecdotes are told of the zany ways of Drukpa Kunley. It is said that on a particular occasion he was gifted a sacred thread to put around his neck. However, he shocked the people by saying that he would tie the thread around his penis with the fond hope that it would bring him \"luck with the ladies\".\n\nAmong some communities in eastern Bhutan, every year during a particular period, phalluses are worshipped with flowers, \"ara\" (red colored hooch) and milk, in an effort to seek protection from the evil spirits. In central Bhutan, a wooden phallus is immersed in the cups before the drinks are offered to the guests. Some phalluses, especially in rural Bhutan, are endowed with comic eyes.\n\nThe phallus painting is also termed as an institutionalised graffiti. It is seen painted in different designs, and an unusual design seen is one with a dragon riding the phallus. One common feature noticed is that the phallus is always seen ejaculating.\n\nThe belief that such a symbol brings good luck and drives away evil spirits is so much ingrained in the psyche of the common populace in Bhutan that the symbols are routinely painted outside walls of the new houses and even painted on number plates of trucks. The carved wooden phalluses are hung (sometimes crossed by a design of sword or dagger) outside, on the eves of the new homes, at the four corners. \n\nThe wooden phalluses are also driven in the agricultural fields as a kind of scarecrow, when the crops start sprouting. The \"Atsaras\" (masked clowns) also decorate their headgear with phallus painted cloth, during the popular Tsechu festival held every year in different monasteries throughout Bhutan. These clowns also dance with their holy whips and wooden phalluses. On a road drive from Paro airport to Thimpu these explicit paintings of phalluses are a common sight on “white-washed walls of homes, shops and eateries.”\n\nIn the Chimi Lhakhang monastery, the shrine dedicated to Drukpa Kunley, several wooden penises are seen being used to bless people who visit the monastery on pilgrimage seeking blessings to bear a child or for welfare of their children. The glaringly displayed phallus in the monastery is a brown wooden piece with a silver handle, a religious relic considered to possess divine powers and hence used for blessing the spiritually oriented people. It is also said to prevent quarrels among family members in the houses which are painted with these symbols.\n\nAn interesting ritual is performed in Bhutan, as part of house warming ceremony of new houses, which entails erecting the phallus symbols at the four corners of the eaves of the house and one inside the house. It involves raising of a basket filled with the phalluses carved out of wood to the roof of the house to fix them at the four cardinal corners. Groups of both men and women get hired by the owner of the house in raising the basket to the roof.\n\nWhile the men pull the basket up with a rope tied securely from the roof, women try to pull it down; during this process, ribald phallic songs are sung and with every pull the people watching the fun shout \"laso\". A mock exercise is enacted by the men as if they have failed to lift the basket and the basket is dropped to the ground. The intention is to get free hooch (spirit) from the owner of the house so that they get energised to raise the basket. Following the free drinking binge, the men finally rise the basket to the roof and fix the phalluses at the four corners of the roof at the eve ends.\n\nThe phalluses are also tied with a dagger (\"redi\") and painted in five different colours; the colours are said to be significators of five divine expressions: \"White dagger representing peace, purity, and harmony, a red coloured dagger representing wealth and power is placed on the west, the yellow dagger representing prosperity is placed on the south, and on the north is placed the green dagger representing protection. The fifth dagger placed inside the house is usually blue in colour and symbolises wisdom.\" The popular belief in fixing these symbols is that it wards off evil spirits, and not as a fertility symbol.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48411613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48411613", "title": "Powered air-purifying respirator", "text": "Powered air-purifying respirator\n\nA powered, air-purifying respirator (PAPR) is a type of personal protective equipment used to safeguard workers against contaminated air. PAPRs consist of a respirator in the form of a hood, or full-face mask, which takes ambient air that is contaminated with one or more type of pollutant or pathogen, actively removes (filters) a sufficient proportion of these hazards, and then delivers the clean air to the user's face and/or mouth. PAPRs are sometimes called positive-pressure masks, blower units, or just blowers.\n\nThere exist different types of PAPR units for different working environments. Regardless of type, a PAPR consists of (1) some kind of headgear (mask or hood), (2) a powered (motor-driven) fan which forces incoming air through (3) a filter (or multiple filters) for delivery to the user for breathing, and (4) a battery or other power source. The mask may be hard and tight-fitting or flexible and loose-fitting. (The former affords a higher level of protection, but is less comfortable.) The fan, filter, and power-pack may be carried around freely by the user, often secured by a belt around the waist. Alternatively, with certain units, the air is fed to the user via lengthy tubing while the fans and filters are remotely mounted.\n\nThe type of filter incorporated into a PAPR must be appropriate to the contaminants that need to be removed. Some respirators are designed to remove fine particulate matter such as the dust created during various woodworking processes. When used with high-efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filters, airborne particles containing pathogens (viruses, bacteria) smaller than 5 microns will be removed. (PAPRs are typically required for lab workers in BSL-3 facilities, and sometimes in BSL-2 as well.) When used in combination with the correct filters, PAPRs are suitable for working with volatile organic compounds such as those used in many spray paints. At the same time filters that are suitable for volatile substances must typically have their filter elements replaced more often than a particulate filter. In addition there is some confusion over terminology. Some literature and users will refer to a particulate filtering unit as a dust mask or filter and then use the term respirator to mean a unit that can handle organic solvents.\n\nA commercial product known as the Racal suit — or Racal space suit — is a portable personal protective equipment consisting of a plastic suit and a PAPR fitted with HEPA filters that supply filtered air to a positive-pressure hood (also known as racal hood). Racal suits were used by the Aeromedical Isolation Team (AIT) to evacuate patients with highly infectious diseases for treatment.\n"}
{"id": "21703900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21703900", "title": "Prewriting", "text": "Prewriting\n\nPrewriting is the first stage of the writing process, typically followed by drafting, revision, editing and publishing.\n\nPrewriting can consist of a combination of outlining, diagramming, storyboarding, clustering (for a technique similar to clustering, see mindmapping).\n\nPrewriting usually begins with motivation and audience awareness: what is the student or writer trying to communicate, why is it important to communicate it well and who is the audience for this communication. It helps you put your thought out onto the paper on what you want to write about. Writers usually begin with a clear idea of audience, content and the importance of their communication; sometimes, one of these needs to be clarified for the best communication. Student writers find motivation especially difficult because they are writing for a teacher or for a grade, instead of a real audience. Often teachers try to find a real audience for students by asking them to read to younger classes or to parents, by posting writing for others to read, by writing a blog, or by writing on real topics, such as a letter to the editor of a local newspaper.\n\nOne important task in prewriting is choosing a topic and then narrowing it to a length that can be covered in the space allowed. Oral storytelling is an effective way to search for a good topic for a personal narrative. Writers can quickly tell a story and judge from the listeners' reactions whether it will be an interesting topic to write about.\n\nAnother way to find a topic is to freewrite, a method first popularized by Peter Elbow. When freewriting, you write any and every idea that comes to mind. This could also be a written exploration of your current knowledge of a broad topic, with the idea that you are looking for a narrow topic to write about. Often freewriting is timed. The writer is instructed to keep writing until the time period ends, which encourages him/her to keep writing past the pre-conceived ideas and hopefully find a more interesting topic.\n\nSeveral other methods of choosing a topic overlap with another broad concern of prewriting, that of researching or gathering information. Reading is effective in both choosing and narrowing a topic and in gathering information to include in the writing. As a writer reads other works, it expands ideas, opens possibilities and points toward options for topics and narrates specific content for the eventual writing. One traditional method of tracking the content read is to create annotated note cards with one chunk of information per card. Writers also need to document music, photos, web sites, interviews, and any other source used to prevent plagiarism.\n\nBesides reading what others also make original observations relating to a topic. This requires on-site visits, experimentation with something, or finding original or primary historical documents. Writers interact with the setting or materials and make observations about their experience. For strong writing, particular attention should be given to sensory details (what the writer hears, tastes, touches, smells and feels). While gathering material, often writers pay particular attention to the vocabulary used in discussing the topic. This would include slang, specific terminology, translations of terms, and typical phrases used. The writer often looks up definitions, synonyms and finds ways that different people use the terminology. Lists, journals, teacher-student conference, drawing illustrations, using imagination, restating a problem in multiple ways, watching videos, inventorying interests – these are some of the other methods for gathering information.\n\nAfter reading and observing, often writers need to discuss material. They might brainstorm with a group or topics or how to narrow a topic. Or, they might discuss events, ideas, and interpretations with just one other person. Oral storytelling might enter again, as the writer turns it into a narrative, or just tries out ways of using the new terminology. Sometimes writers draw or use information as basis for artwork as a way to understand the material better.\n\nNarrowing a topic is an important step of prewriting. For example, a personal narrative of five pages could be narrowed to an incident that occurred in a thirty-minute time period. This restricted time period means the writer must slow down and tell the event moment by moment with many details. By contrast, a five-page essay about a three-day trip would only skim the surface of the experience. The writer must consider again the goals of communication – content, audience, importance of information – but add to this a consideration of the format for the writing. He or she should consider how much space is allowed for the communication and how What can be effectively communicated within that space?\n\nAt this point, the writer needs to consider the organization of content. Outlining in a hierarchical structure is one of the typical strategies, and usually includes three or more levels in the hierarchy. Typical outlines are organized by chronology, spatial relationships, or by subtopics. Other outlines might include sequences along a continuum: big to little, old to new, etc. Clustering, a technique of creating a visual web that represents associations among ideas, is another help in creating structure, because it reveals relationships. Storyboarding is a method of drawing rough sketches to plan a picture book, a movie script, a graphic novel or other fiction.\n\nWhile information on the developmental sequence of organizing skills is sketchy, anecdotal information suggests that children follow this rough sequence: 1) sort into categories, 2) structure the categories into a specific order for best communication, using criteria such as which item will best work to catch readers attention in the opening, 3) within a category, sequence information into a specific order for best communication, using criteria such as what will best persuade an audience. At each level, it is important that student writers discuss their decisions; they should understand that categories for a certain topic could be structured in several different ways, all correct. A final skill acquired is the ability to omit information that is not needed in order to communicate effectively.\n\nEven sketchier is information on what types of organization are acquired first, but anecdotal information and research suggests that even young children understand chronological information, making narratives the easiest type of student writing. Persuasive writing usually requires logical thinking and studies in child development indicate that logical thinking is not present until a child is 10–12 years old, making it one of the later writing skills to acquire. Before this age, persuasive writing will rely mostly on emotional arguments.\n\nWriters also use the prewriting phase to experiment with ways of expressing ideas. For oral storytelling, a writer could tell a story three times, but each time begin at a different time, include or exclude information, end at a different time or place. Writers often try writing the same information. but using different voices, in search of the best way to communicate this information or tell this story.\n\nPrewriting is recursive, that is, it can occur at any time in the writing process and can return several times. For example, after a first draft, a writer may need to return to an information gathering stage, or may need to discuss the material with someone, or may need to adjust the outline. While the writing process is discussed as having distinct stages, in reality, they often overlap and circle back on one another.\n\nPrewriting varies depending on the writing task or rhetorical mode. Fiction requires more imagination, while informational essays or expository writing require stronger organization. Persuasive writing must consider not just the information to be communicated, but how best to change the reader’s ideas or convictions. Folktales will require extensive reading of the genre to learn common conventions. Each writing task will require a different selection of prewriting strategies, used in a different order.\n\nTechnological tools are often used in prewriting tasks, including word processors, spreadsheets and publishing programs; however, technology appears to be more useful in the revision, editing and publishing phases of prewriting.\n\nTeaching writing as a process is accepted pedagogical practice, but there is increasing concern that writing tests do not allow for the full writing process, especially cutting short the time needed for prewriting tasks.\n\n"}
{"id": "54570780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54570780", "title": "Protocol relating to the status of refugees (1967)", "text": "Protocol relating to the status of refugees (1967)\n\nThe protocol relating to the status of refugees of 1967 broadens the definition of the Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees of 1951. The main point of the protocol was to \"grant all refugees the same status irrespective of the effective date of the 1st of January 1951.\"\n\nThe protocol was completed on the 31st of January 1967 in New York City. Switzerland ratified the protocol on the 20th of May 1968. Germany ratified it on the 5th of November, 1969, and Austria ratified it on the 5th of September 1973.\n\nDirective 2011/95 of the European Parliament, derives from this protocol, among other sources.\n"}
{"id": "3028517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3028517", "title": "Scrambled Eggs Super!", "text": "Scrambled Eggs Super!\n\nScrambled Eggs Super! is a 1953 book by American children's author Dr. Seuss. It tells of a boy named Peter T. Hooper, who makes scrambled eggs prepared from eggs of various exotic birds.\n\nAt the beginning of the story, Peter T. Hooper brags to a girl, Liz, in his mother's kitchen about how good of a cook he is. He tells the story of how, when he became fed up with the taste of regular scrambled eggs using hen's eggs, he decided to scramble eggs from other birds. He tells of how he travelled great distances and discovered a variety of exotic birds and their eggs. He explains his criteria for choosing some eggs, because of their sweetness, and avoiding others. He takes the eggs home but decides that he still needs more, and he calls on the help of some friends he knows from around the world, including a \"fellow named Ali\". After each bird Peter finds he states the phrase...\"Scrambled Eggs Super Dee Dooper Dee Booper Special Deluxe a la Peter T. Hooper\".\n\nRuth C. Barlow of the \"Christian Science Monitor\" called it a \"gay extravaganza\".\n\nIt also received positive reviews from \"Chicago Sunday Tribune\" and \"The New York Herald Tribune\" for Seuss's illustrations of the birds.\n\nPhillip Nel, in the book \"Dr. Seuss: American Icon\", wrote that \"Scrambled Eggs Super!\" was one of Seuss's less politically oriented books.\n"}
{"id": "49046218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49046218", "title": "Tears of Heaven (musical)", "text": "Tears of Heaven (musical)\n\nTears from Heaven is a musical with a book by Phoebe Hwang, lyrics by Robin Lerner, and music by Frank Wildhorn. It is set during the Vietnam War.\n\nVietnam, 1968: A love triangle between a beautiful Vietnamese singer, a Korean private, and an American Colonel set against the backdrop of the days leading up to and during the Tet Offensive. The tale follows our leads to Seoul, Korea, and San Francisco's Chinatown.\n\n\n\nThe musical had a reading in September 2009 in New York, featuring Deborah Lew, Paolo Montalban and John Cudia, and direction by Gabriel Barre.\n\nAn English language concept recording was released on Global Vision Records, featuring Linda Eder, Rob Evan and Christiane Noll.\n\nThe musical premiered in South Korea in 2011 at the National Theater in Seoul. Directed by Gabriel Barre, the cast featured Junsu and Brad Little.\n"}
{"id": "636502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=636502", "title": "The Algebraist", "text": "The Algebraist\n\nThe Algebraist is a science fiction novel by Scottish writer Iain M. Banks, published in print in 2004. It was nominated for a Hugo Award for Best Novel in 2005.\n\nIt was his third science fiction novel not to be based or set in The Culture, the earlier two being \"Against a Dark Background\" and \"Feersum Endjinn\".\n\nThe novel takes place in 4034. With the assistance of other species, humans have spread across the galaxy,\nwhich is largely ruled by the Mercatoria, a complex feudal hierarchy, with a religious zeal to rid the galaxy of artificial intelligences, which were blamed for a previous war.\n\nIn centre-stage, Banks portrays the human Fassin Taak, a Slow Seer at the Court of the Nasqueron Dwellers. The Beyonders, a large fleet of space marauders originating on the fringes of the galaxy, have cut the system of Nasqueron's star (Ulubis) off from the rest of Mercatoria civilization by destroying its portal (the only means of faster than light travel), and the local Mercatoria adherents await the delivery of a wormhole connection from a neighboring system via sub-lightspeed travel.\n\nThe Dwellers, an advanced and ancient civilisation of non-humanoids who inhabit gas giants, lead an almost anarchic existence based on kudos, and inhabit the majority of gas-giant planets in the galaxy. They are the only major species outside the control of the Mercatoria, being rumoured to possess devastating defensive weaponry. Dweller societies try not to get involved with \"Quick\" species, those with sentient beings who experience life at around the speed human beings experience it. Dwellers are one of the \"Slow\" species who experience life at a much slower rate. Dweller individuals live for millions of years, and the species has existed for billions of years, long before the foundation of the Mercatoria. Slow Seers like Taak are a dynasty of researchers who attempt to glean information from the Dwellers' vast but disorganised libraries of knowledge, artificially slowing their metabolisms to better communicate with them.\n\nTaak, looking forward to a life of quiet scholarship, is astonished to be drafted into one of the Mercatoria's religio-military orders. It turns out that in a previous research expedition to the Dweller-inhabited gas-giant Nasqueron, Taak inadvertently uncovered a book containing information about the legendary \"Dweller List\" of coordinates for their own private systems of wormholes. Since Dwellers are sufficiently long-lived to colonise the galaxy at sub-light speed, the very existence of such a network was considered doubtful.\n\nThe Dweller List is only a list of star systems. Portals are relatively small and can be anywhere within a system so long as it is a point of zero net gravitational attraction, such as a Lagrange point. The list is useless without a certain mathematical transform needed to give the exact location of the portals. Taak must go on a further expedition to Nasqueron in order to find the Transform.\n\nA tyrannical warlord, the Archimandrite Luseferous of the Starveling Cult, in loose alliance with the Beyonders, sets out to invade the Ulubis system from the Cluster Epiphany Five Disconnect, also aiming to possess the secrets of the Dweller portals. A Mercatoria counter-attack fleet hurries to defend Ulubis against the Starveling Cult ships and their Beyonder allies. Both fleets are forced to travel at sub light speeds, leaving the inhabitants of the Ulubis system anxiously wondering which will arrive first.\n\nTaak's hunt for the Transform takes him on a journey, partly through the Dweller wormhole network. In a back story, it is revealed that he has been out of sympathy with the Mercatoria for some time, particularly over their treatment of artificial intelligences, and has in fact been a Beyonder agent. It is also revealed that the Dwellers have been harbouring artificial intelligences from Mercatoria persecution.\n\nThe Beyonder/Starveling forces arrive and easily overwhelm Ulubis's native defences. They discover to their dismay that the counter-attack force is arriving much sooner than predicted, and is superior. The Beyonder factions despair of locating Taak and the secret in the time available before the recapture of Ulubis, and retreat. The Starvelings under Luseferous remain. He makes a last-ditch attempt to force the Dwellers to yield up Taak, threatening them with antimatter weapons. The Dwellers respond with devastating blows on his fleet. Luseferous flees under Mercatoria pursuit.\n\nTaak returns from his journey with his memory partly erased. He is still able to piece together the secret from the remaining clues: every massive body has a region of zero net gravitational attraction at its exact centre. The Dwellers have hidden wormhole portals in the cores of all their occupied planets, and the Transform was never necessary. It remains unclear whether the Dwellers will give the necessary cooperation in allowing other species access to their network, now that the secret is out.\n\nThe novel ends with Taak, having left Ulubis and joined the Beyonders, suggesting to a lifelong friend he has just discovered is an AI, \"all will be free\".\n\nIn an interview in 2004, Banks stated that \"It probably could become a trilogy, but for now it’s a standalone novel.\" \"The Algebraist\" was shortlisted for the 2005 Hugo Award for Best Novel. In 2011, the novel was short-listed for the NPR Top-100 Science Fiction, Fantasy Titles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43672644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43672644", "title": "The Fearmakers", "text": "The Fearmakers\n\nThe Fearmakers is a 1958 film noir crime film directed by Jacques Tourneur starring Dana Andrews. The screenplay is based on the 1945 novel of the same name by Darwin Teilhet.\n\nKorean War veteran Alan Eaton (Andrews), who suffered through brainwashing as a P.O.W., returns home and resumes his job at a public relations-opinion research firm in Washington, DC. He finds things aren't quite as he left them. His partner has been killed mysteriously in an accident. He discovers that his company has been taken over by Communist infiltrators intent on fixing public opinion polls and promoting Communist organizations. To stop them, Eaton cooperates with a Senate investigation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6731768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6731768", "title": "The Highwayman (poem)", "text": "The Highwayman (poem)\n\n\"The Highwayman\" is a narrative poem written by Alfred Noyes, first published in the August 1906 issue of \"Blackwood's Magazine\", based in Edinburgh, Scotland. The following year it was included in Noyes' collection, \"Forty Singing Seamen and Other Poems\", becoming an immediate success. In 1995 it was voted 15th in the BBC's poll for \"The Nation's Favourite Poems\".\n\nThe poem, set in 18th century rural England, tells the story of an unnamed highwayman who is in love with Bess, a landlord's daughter. Betrayed to the authorities by Tim, a jealous ostler, the highwayman escapes ambush when Bess sacrifices her life to warn him. Learning of her death, he dies in a futile attempt at revenge, shot down on the highway. In the final stanza, the ghosts of the lovers meet again on winter nights.\n\nThe poem was written on the edge of a desolate stretch of land known as Bagshot Heath, where Noyes, then aged 24, had taken rooms in a cottage. In his autobiography, he recalled: \"Bagshot Heath in those days was a wild bit of country, all [Calluna|heather] and [pine]woods. \"The Highwayman\" suggested itself to me one blustery night when the sound of the wind in the pines gave me the first line.\" The poem was completed in about two days.\n\nThe poem makes effective use of vivid imagery to describe surroundings; plus repetitious phrases to create the sense of a horseman riding at ease through the rural darkness to a lovers' tryst and soldiers marching down the same road to ambush him.\n\n\"The Highwayman\" is reputed to be \"the best narrative poem in existence for oral delivery\".\n\nAlmost half a century later, Noyes wrote, \"I think the success of the poem... was because it was not an artificial composition, but was written at an age when I was genuinely excited by that kind of romantic story.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7386834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7386834", "title": "The Inheritance of Loss", "text": "The Inheritance of Loss\n\nThe Inheritance of Loss is the second novel by Indian author Kiran Desai. It was first published in 2006. It won a number of awards, including the Man Booker Prize for that year, the National Book Critics Circle Fiction Award in 2007, and the 2006 Vodafone Crossword Book Award.\n\nIt was written over a period of seven years after her first book, the critically acclaimed \"Hullabaloo in the Guava Orchard.\" Among its main themes are migration, living between two worlds, and between past and present.\n\nThe story is centered on two main characters: Biju and Sai. Biju is an undocumented Indian immigrant living in the United States, son of a cook who works for Sai's grandfather. Sai is a girl living in mountainous Kalimpong with her maternal grandfather Jemubhai, the cook and a dog named Mutt. Desai switches the narration between both points of view. The action of the novel takes place in 1986.\n\nThe novel follows the journey of Biju, an undocumented immigrant in the US who is trying to make a new life; and Sai, an Anglicised Indian girl living with her grandfather in India. The novel shows the internal conflicts in India between groups, whilst showing a conflict between past and present. There is the rejection and yet awe of the English way of life, the opportunities for money in the US, and the squalor of living in India. Many leading Indians were considered to be becoming too English and having forgotten the traditional ways of Indian life, shown through the character of the grandfather, the retired Judge.\n\nThe major theme running throughout is one closely related to colonialism and the effects of post-colonialism: the loss of identity and the way it travels through generations as a sense of loss. Individuals within the text show snobbery at those who embody the Indian way of life and vice versa, with characters displaying an anger at the English Indians who have lost their traditions.\n\nThe Gorkhaland movement is used as a historic backdrop of the novel.\n\nThe retired judge Jemubhai Patel is a man disgusted at Indian ways and customs, so much so, that he eats chapatis with a knife and fork, hates all Indians including his father whom he breaks ties with and wife who he abandons at his father's place after torturing her, and is never accepted by the British in spite of his education and adopted mannerisms.\n\nNatasha Walter found it a \"grim\" novel, highlighting \"how individuals are always failing to communicate\". \"The Observer\" found some excellent comic set-pieces amid the grimness. The \"New York Times\" claimed Desai \"manages to explore, with intimacy and insight, just about every contemporary international issue: globalization, multiculturalism, economic inequality, fundamentalism and terrorist violence.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1470278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1470278", "title": "Tourism in Macau", "text": "Tourism in Macau\n\nMacau is a special administrative district (SAR) located to the southeast of mainland China. Since Macau is using the “one country two systems” principle just like Hong Kong, acting as a special region of China, it gained many benefits from the principle. The population in Macau is approximately 582,000. Tourism is a major industry in Macau. It is famous for the blend of Portuguese and Chinese cultures and its gambling industry, which includes Casino Lisboa, Macau, Sands Macau, The Venetian Macao, and Wynn Macau. There are many choices of hotels and resorts since it is one of the world class tourism industry in Asia. \n\nMost visitors arriving to Macau on short term basis in 2011–2016, came from:\n\nThe climate in Macau is temperate degree in a year. The temperature is about 20 °C (68 °F) and ranges from 16 °C (50 °F) to 25 °C (77 °F). \nThe best time to go to Macau is around October-December. Visitors can bring some casual and portable clothes during travel time. If in winter period, visitors can bring a coat or jacket. The weather in Macau is stable.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "165767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=165767", "title": "Towel", "text": "Towel\n\nA towel is a piece of absorbent fabric or paper used for drying or wiping a body or a surface. It draws moisture through direct contact, often using a blotting or a rubbing motion. \n\nIn households, several types of fabric towels are used, including hand towels, bath towels and kitchen towels. In warm climates, people may also use beach towels. Paper towels are provided in commercial or office bathrooms for users to dry their hands. Paper towels are also used in households for a range of wiping, cleaning and drying tasks.\n\nAccording to Middle Ages archaeological studies, \"... closely held personal items included the ever present knife and a towel.\" However, the invention of the towel is commonly associated with the city of Bursa, Turkey, in the 17th century. These Turkish towels began as a flat, woven piece of cotton or linen called a \"pestamel\", often hand-embroidered. Long enough to wrap around the body, pestamel were originally fairly narrow, but are now wider and commonly measure . Pestamel were used in Turkish baths as they stayed light when wet and were very absorbent. \n\nAs the Ottoman Empire grew, so did the use of the towel. Weavers were asked to embroider more elaborate designs, aided by their knowledge of carpet-weaving. By the 18th century, towels began to feature loops sticking up from the pile of the material. These looped towels became known as \"havly\"; over time, this word has changed to \"havlu\", the Turkish word for towel, and means ‘with loops’.\nTowels didn't become affordable until the 19th century, with the cotton trade and industrialization. With mechanization, cotton terry-towelling became available by the yard as well as being stocked in shops as pre-made towels.\n\nToday towels are available in a variety of sizes, materials and designs. Some hotels which provide towels and bath robes embed washable RFID tags into their linens to deter theft.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43368463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43368463", "title": "UTA Brand Studio", "text": "UTA Brand Studio\n\nIn 2012, UTA Brand Studio was unveiled as the brand strategy division of United Talent Agency (UTA), one of the world’s largest literary and talent agencies. The studio is based in UTA’s Beverly Hills, CA headquarters.\n\nLaurence Vincent and Michellene DeBonis are UTA Brand Studio co-founders. Vincent’s 20-year career in branding has included roles with Siegel + Gale and Octagon, Inc., for such clients as Disney, MasterCard, Microsoft, the NFL, PlayStation and Qualcomm. DeBonis also brings 20 years of brand experience including work for Bare Minerals, Panasonic, Microsoft, Yahoo!, Operation Smile and Susan G. Komen. Other UTA Brand Studio team members include Creative Director R. Marcus Bartlett—who joined the team from Futurebrand where he won a Clio Award for his work with American Airlines—and Director of Client Engagement Catherine Davie.\n\nVincent has written two brand strategy books. In March 2012, \"Brand Real\" was released, focusing on the strategic behavior that drives the success of the world’s leading brands. \"Brand Real\" was recognized by strategy+business magazine as one of the best business books of 2012. In 2001, \"Legendary Brands\" was released, examining the storytelling potential of brands and implications for strategic and creative development.\n\nIn January 2014, a new quantitative research tool measuring brand attachment was launched by UTA Brand Studio. Brand Dependence™ is described as a tool to measure the personal connection consumers have to a brand and the degree to which they see a brand as being part of who they are. Developed in an exclusive partnership with uSamp and UTA Brand Studio, Brand Dependence™ is built upon the pioneering academic research on brand attachment of Deborah MacInnis, Vice Dean and Professor at USC Marshall School of Business and C. Whan Park Professor of Marketing at USC Marshall School of Business.\n\nAt CES 2014, the UTA Brand Studio announced the inaugural Brand Dependence™ index focusing on technology brands. Social media brands were examined in the second installment.\n\nSome of UTA Brand Studio’s clients include The Elizabeth Taylor Trust, Bare Minerals, Mattel and the Consumer Electronics Association. In 2014, the studio was named a winner of the CLIO Image Awards Shortlist in the Design category on behalf of client The Elizabeth Taylor Trust.\n\nSome of the media outlets that have featured Larry Vincent include Forbes, Digiday and Ragan.com. Vincent has presented to such groups as CES, SXSW, The Conference Board, CMO Collective, and Digital Hollywood, among others. In April 2014, UTA Brand Studio in conjunction with Live Talks LA hosted Twitter co-founder and Jelly CEO Biz Stone in conversation with Vincent about Stone’s new book THINGS A LITTLE BIRD TOLD ME: CONF Mark.\n\n"}
{"id": "19168375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19168375", "title": "Villejuif leaflet", "text": "Villejuif leaflet\n\nThe Villejuif leaflet, also known as the Villejuif flyer and the Villejuif list, was a pamphlet which enjoyed wide distribution. The leaflet listed a number of safe food additives with their E numbers as alleged carcinogens. The leaflet caused mass panic in Europe in the late 1970s and 1980s. One of the entries on the list was citric acid (E330).\n\nIts name derives from its false claim to have been produced at the hospital in Villejuif.\n\nThe earliest known sighting of the leaflet was in February 1976, in the form of a single typewritten page in France. Homemade copies were spread across Europe for a decade in the form of a leaflet or flyer pamphlet that was distributed between friends and apart from citric acid included 16 other chemicals in a list of substances that it called dangerous toxins and carcinogens. The original author of the typewritten list was never found, and the leaflet affected about 7 million people in its uncontrollable propagation. In a survey of 150 housewives, 19% said they have stopped buying these brands, and 69% planned to do so.\n\nMultiple versions of this leaflet circulated, the exact set of suspect and dangerous substances differing from version to version. The following substances have been included on at least one such leaflet:\n\nThis phenomenon became the subject of academic empirical research by J. N. Kapferer, president of the Foundation for the Study and Information on Rumors (an organisation in Paris, France) and professor of communication at L'Ecole des Hautes Etudes Commerciales and l'Institut Supérieur des Affaires (a university in France) because of its persistence contrary to all official denials about the safety of citric acid and its wide distribution, as about half of all French housewives had been exposed to it. The resulting scientific paper was published in 1989 in the 53rd volume of the \"Public Opinion Quarterly\", a journal associated with the American Association for Public Opinion Research and published by the University of Chicago Press (now published by the Oxford University Press).\n\nAccording to a 1990 book also written by Jean-Noël Kapferer, the leaflet drew the attention of experts, who immediately recognised its dubious nature. The leaflet wrongly listed E330, citric acid, as the most dangerous of all carcinogens.\n\nThe rumour, considered one of the most important experienced in the French society, spread via a translated leaflet in Great Britain, Germany, Italy, the Middle East, and Africa.\n\nJournalists working for newspapers distributed the list of alleged carcinogens verbatim; even a 1984 book written by a medical doctor aiming at informing the general public about the dangers of cancer included the substances in the flyer in a list of carcinogens, without checking the flyer's accuracy.\n\nIt was reproduced many times by many individuals as friends sought to inform other friends of the harmful chemicals in their food, and in the course of uncontrolled copying a version of the leaflet included the name of the Villejuif Hospital, making victims to the rumour believe that the list was authorised by it. Even though the hospital (as Gustave-Roussy Institute) denied any association, it was unable to stop the further dissemination of the flyer, which went on from hand to hand until at least 1986 and was passed to elementary schools, organisations, and even various hospitals, while medical schools and pharmacy schools also fell victim to the list because of its (unauthorised and untrue) reference to the well-known hospital of Villejuif.\n\nCitric acid is important for a chemical process named Krebs cycle, but \"Krebs\" means cancer in German, and it has been suggested that this linguistic confusion may have been responsible for false claims that citric acid is carcinogenic.\n\n"}
{"id": "6014932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6014932", "title": "Web archiving", "text": "Web archiving\n\nWeb archiving is the process of collecting portions of the World Wide Web to ensure the information is preserved in an archive for future researchers, historians, and the public. Web archivists typically employ web crawlers for automated capture due to the massive size and amount of information on the Web. The largest web archiving organization based on a bulk crawling approach is the Internet Archive which strives to maintain an archive of the entire Web. \n\nThe International Web Archiving Workshop (IWAW), begun in 2001, has provided a platform to share experiences and exchange ideas. The later founding of the International Internet Preservation Consortium (IIPC), in 2003, has greatly facilitated international collaboration in developing standards and open source tools for the creation of web archives. These developments, and the growing portion of human culture created and recorded on the web, combine to make it inevitable that more and more libraries and archives will have to face the challenges of web archiving. National libraries, national archives and various consortia of organizations are also involved in archiving culturally important Web content. \n\nCommercial web archiving software and services are also available to organizations who need to archive their own web content for corporate heritage, regulatory, or legal purposes.\n\nEarly practice of web archiving involved the highlighting of a \"site of the week award\" as a record for the contest. Besides that, another early practice was the professional link list (for example Amnesty International's list of human rights groups) and (Yahoo!) directory and Open Directory Project.\n\nIn the mid-1990s, one of the more important listing sites of its kind continually updated an index of worthwhile website destinations organized by content category.\n\nIn 1998, Yahoo directory was considered to have made a significant contribution to emerging online library science, not only by its classification scheme but also by the means of the content \"navigation\" it developed.\n\nSoliciting, evaluating, and categorizing websites – the large-scale collecting, hand-sorting, and display of websites – could be considered an original form of website analysis. The rise of the algorithmic search engine has largely led to the disappearance of such manual methods.\n\nWeb archivists generally archive various types of web content including HTML web pages, style sheets, JavaScript, images, and video. They also archive metadata about the collected resources such as access time, MIME type, and content length. This metadata is useful in establishing authenticity and provenance of the archived collection.\n\nThe most common web archiving technique uses web crawlers to automate the process of collecting web pages. Web crawlers typically access web pages in the same manner that users with a browser see the Web, and therefore provide a comparatively simple method of remote harvesting web content. Examples of web crawlers used for web archiving include:\n\nThere exist various free services which may be used to archive web resources \"on-demand\", using web crawling techniques. These services include the Wayback Machine and WebCite.\n\nDatabase archiving refers to methods for archiving the underlying content of database-driven websites. It typically requires the extraction of the database content into a standard schema, often using XML. Once stored in that standard format, the archived content of multiple databases can then be made available using a single access system. This approach is exemplified by the DeepArc and Xinq tools developed by the Bibliothèque nationale de France and the National Library of Australia respectively. DeepArc enables the structure of a relational database to be mapped to an XML schema, and the content exported into an XML document. Xinq then allows that content to be delivered online. Although the original layout and behavior of the website cannot be preserved exactly, Xinq does allow the basic querying and retrieval functionality to be replicated.\n\nTransactional archiving is an event-driven approach, which collects the actual transactions which take place between a web server and a web browser. It is primarily used as a means of preserving evidence of the content which was actually viewed on a particular website, on a given date. This may be particularly important for organizations which need to comply with legal or regulatory requirements for disclosing and retaining information.\n\nA transactional archiving system typically operates by intercepting every HTTP request to, and response from, the web server, filtering each response to eliminate duplicate content, and permanently storing the responses as bitstreams.\n\nWeb archives which rely on web crawling as their primary means of collecting the Web are influenced by the difficulties of web crawling:\n\nHowever, it is important to note that a native format web archive, i.e., a fully browsable web archive, with working links, media, etc., is only really possible using crawler technology.\n\nThe Web is so large that crawling a significant portion of it takes a large amount of technical resources. The Web is changing so fast that portions of a website may change before a crawler has even finished crawling it.\n\nSome web servers are configured to return different pages to web archiver requests than they would in response to regular browser requests. This is typically done to fool search engines into directing more user traffic to a website, and is often done to avoid accountability, or to provide enhanced content only to those browsers that can display it.\n\nNot only must web archivists deal with the technical challenges of web archiving, they must also contend with intellectual property laws. Peter Lyman states that \"although the Web is popularly regarded as a public domain resource, it is copyrighted; thus, archivists have no legal right to copy the Web\". However national libraries in some countries have a legal right to copy portions of the web under an extension of a legal deposit.\n\nSome private non-profit web archives that are made publicly accessible like WebCite, the Internet Archive or the Internet Memory Foundation allow content owners to hide or remove archived content that they do not want the public to have access to. Other web archives are only accessible from certain locations or have regulated usage. WebCite cites a recent lawsuit against Google's caching, which Google won.\n\nWeb curation, like any digital curation, entails:\n\n\nThus, besides the discussion on methods of collecting the Web, those of providing access, certification, and organizing must be included. There are a set of popular tools that addresses these curation steps:\n\nA suite of tools for Web Curation by International Internet Preservation Consortium:\n\nOther open source tools for manipulating web archives:\n\nFree but not open source tools also exist:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24837512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24837512", "title": "Whale Whores", "text": "Whale Whores\n\n\"Whale Whores\" is the eleventh episode of the thirteenth season of the American animated television series \"South Park\". The 192nd overall episode of the series, it aired on Comedy Central in the United States on October 28, 2009. In the episode, Stan joins an anti-whaling crew in order to save dolphins and whales from Japanese whalers.\n\nThe episode was written and directed by series co-creator Trey Parker, and was rated TV-MA LV in the United States. \"Whale Whores\" addressed the topic of Japanese whaling, condemning both the whalers themselves and the activists who fight against them. The episode is particularly critical of the reality television series \"Whale Wars\" and its star Paul Watson, an environmental activist who is prominently featured in \"Whale Whores\".\n\nIn a response to the episode, Paul Watson said he was not offended by the portrayal, and was glad the show brought the issue of illegal whaling to a large audience. The episode also featured references to the show \"Deadliest Catch\" and a rendition of the Lady Gaga song \"Poker Face\" sung by Eric Cartman on the game \"Rock Band\". A downloadable version of the song was released for the game in March. \"Whale Whores\" was released on DVD and Blu-ray along with the rest of the thirteenth season on March 16, 2010. The episode was nominated for a Genesis Award, but lost to the \"Family Guy\" episode \"Dog Gone\".\n\nThe Marsh family is spending Stan's ninth birthday at a public aquarium in Denver. As the Marshes enjoy interacting with the trained bottlenose dolphins, Japanese armed with spears suddenly storm the dolphinarium and kill all the dolphins. The Japanese perform similar attacks at several other aquariums, and at an NFL game, where they kill members of the Miami Dolphins football team. Stan asks his friends Kyle, Cartman, and Kenny to help him take on the cause of saving the dolphins and whales from the Japanese. Kyle declines, feeling they can't change Japan's views on the issue, while Cartman and Kenny are much more interested in playing the video game \"Rock Band\", professing they \"don't give two shits about stupid-ass whales\". Eventually, Butters (who is also too busy) informs Stan about the television show \"Whale Wars\", stating that they can take volunteers to help them. Seeing this as his chance, Stan takes Butters' advice and joins host Paul Watson and his crew aboard the \"Sea Shepherd\", but is underwhelmed by their method of throwing \"stinky butter\" at Japanese whalers in an effort to deter them. After the Japanese whalers kill Watson with a harpoon, Stan destroys their ship by igniting their fuel barrels with a flare gun. Stan becomes the new captain and leads a more successful campaign in impeding the Japanese whaling effort by employing more aggressive methods. The crew ends up getting interviewed by Larry King, who describes Paul Watson as an \"incompetent media whore\" and questions Stan on his intentions of increasing ratings with violence. Stan dismisses the charge and contends he is only interested in saving the whales, not ratings.\n\nWanting to be on television, Cartman and Kenny join the ship's crew under false pretenses of wanting to save the whales (especially, in fact, since they are more interested in the fame and fortune). After a brief run-in with Captain Sig Hansen and his crew from the show \"Deadliest Catch\", Japanese pilots launch kamikaze attacks on the \"Sea Shepherd\". The suicidal planes kill the \"Whale Wars\" crew except for Stan, Cartman and Kenny. The trio are captured and brought to Japan, where Emperor Akihito tells them retaliation for the bombing of Hiroshima is the primary motive for Japan's whaling efforts, with Cartman finding the whole nuclear drop and mass devastation hilarious. He shows them a doctored photograph—given to Japan by the United States after the bombing—of the \"Enola Gay\" piloted by a dolphin and a killer whale. According to him, Japan was so grateful the Americans gave the Japanese these photos they declared peace. Knowing the picture is a fake, Stan decides to reveal the truth about the bombing, but Cartman reminds him that the Japanese seek to drive the entire species of the perpetrators to extinction. Claiming the U.S. government has authorized him to show the \"original\" photo, Stan presents the Emperor, Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama, and other Japanese officials with a new doctored photo showing a cow and chicken in the \"Enola Gay\" (created by Kyle, who Stan managed to phone beforehand). The Japanese become infuriated, now believing cows and chickens had modified the original photo to frame the innocent whales and dolphins. The Japanese agree to cease their whaling efforts and start slaughtering cows and chickens, storming farms full of the animals. The episode ends as Randy congratulates Stan for making the Japanese \"normal, like us\".\n\n\"Whale Whores\" addresses the controversies surrounding Japanese whaling, which had been a subject of considerable media attention around the time the \"South Park\" episode first aired. The episode condemns all sides involved in the matter, including the Japanese whalers themselves and the activists who fight against them. By having the Japanese attack the dolphins at the Denver Aquarium in the middle of a dolphin riding demonstration, it has been suggested the episode highlights the link between visiting dolphins at marine parks and the reality of how aquatic wildlife are captured and slaughtered. \nIn the final scene, the show also draws parallel between Japanese whaling industry and generally accepted meat and poultry industries.\n\nHowever, the episode prominently features and mocks animal rights and environmental activist Paul Watson and his Animal Planet reality series, \"Whale Wars\". Watson has received wide criticism for his method of disrupting whale hunts by at times attacking and sinking Japanese and Norwegian whaling ships. \"Whale Whores\" presents Watson and his show in a way that mocks his attempts to garner media attention by simply lying rather than doing anything productive. The episode mocks \"Whale Wars\" and its attempts to present mundane ship-board activities as dramatic television. This is particularly illustrated in newspaper headlines after Stan takes over Watson's ship: \"New Captain Turns Vegan Pussies Into Real Pirates\" and \"Whale Wars Gets Better: Things Actually Happen!\" Watson himself is also portrayed in a physically unflattering way, with his stomach too fat to be entirely covered by his shirt. \"Whale Whores\" also refers to the criticisms that Watson bends the truth in order to further his popularity. This is particularly reflected through the fictional interview with Larry King, who calls Watson \"an unorganized, incompetent media whore who thought lying to everyone was OK as long as it served his cause\". The fact that \"Whale Wars\" gets better ratings after Stan takes over and employs more violent tactics is a satire of the tendency in \"Whale Wars\", and television in general, to exploit violence for money and viewership.\n\nThe atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki are identified as the cause of Japanese whaling. The two Japanese cities were destroyed by atomic weapons during the final stages of World War II under orders by U.S. President Harry Truman, which killed about 220,000 people. In \"Whale Whores\", the Japanese are presented with a doctored picture of the \"Enola Gay\", the B-29 Superfortress bomber that dropped the atomic bomb on Hiroshima. The picture shows a dolphin and a whale piloting the plane to bomb the city. The Miami Dolphins, a National Football League professional football team, are killed along with real dolphins by the whalers in \"Whale Whores\". Near the end of the episode, Stan and the crew of the MY Steve Irwin encounter fishing ship captain Sig Hansen and his crew from the Discovery Channel reality series, \"Deadliest Catch\". The scene with Paul Watson's crew throwing \"stinky butter\" at the whalers refers to Watson and his crew's practice of throwing stink bombs containing butyric acid, an acid found in rancid butter and cheese, at Japanese whaling vessels, including the factory vessel, the \"Nisshin Maru\".\n\nAn \"Entertainment Weekly\" magazine cover is shown with the headline, \"We’re STILL Remembering Michael Jackson\", a reference to the extremely large amount of media coverage surrounding the then-recent death of pop singer Michael Jackson. During one scene, Stan frightens off a group of Japanese whalers by uncovering a large statue of Godzilla, the famous Japanese movie monster. During the episode Kyle, Kenny and Cartman are shown performing Lady Gaga's song \"Poker Face\" on the video game \"Rock Band\". On March 16, 2010, \"Rock Band\" developer Harmonix released this version of the song (along with the original version) as downloadable content for the game.\n\n\"Whale Whores\" was controversial and received mixed reviews. Ken Tucker of \"Entertainment Weekly\" described the criticism of the save-the-whales conservationists as a \"delightfully savage ridicule\". Brian Jacks of \"MTV\" complimented the show's focus on whale conservation, writing, \"Leave it to the hard-hitting folks at \"South Park\" to do more for conservationism than fifteen cable reality shows put together.\" Josh Modell of \"The A.V. Club\" said the episode was unfunny and mocked a television series that was \"culturally insignificant\" and not particularly well-known. Modell wrote, \"The show's star, Paul Watson, seems to have really pissed off South Park's creators Parker and Stone [...] Fine, but could you make me laugh a few times while you beat me over the head with information about a guy that I couldn't care less about?\"\n\nRamsey Isler of \"IGN\" called \"Whale Whores\" an entertaining episode, but said the episode could have provided more meaningful satire and did not explain the whaling issue very well, especially considering the show's target audience was probably unfamiliar with it. Isler praised some of the individual jokes revolving around the Japanese attacks, and called Cartman's \"Poker Face\" rendition a classic \"South Park\" moment, but dismissed the \"Enola Gay\" twist as \"stupid\". Carlos Delgado of \"iF Magazine\" said \"\"South Park\" swung and missed\" with \"Whale Whores\". Delgado said many of the jokes were random and \"weird\", particularly the \"Enola Gay\" twist and the Japanese kamikaze attacks.\n\nPaul Watson said he was not offended by his portrayal in the episode, and was glad \"Whale Whores\" brought the issue of dolphin and whale slaughter to a large audience, as well as the role of the Japanese in the deaths. Watson said, \"It's a tough situation we are in. We can't hurt the whalers and we have to stay within the boundaries of the law in opposing illegal whaling operations. If that makes us pussies, so be it. It's better than being portrayed as killers.\" Watson said the episode failed to portray that his actions have hurt Japanese profits from whaling, but that the episode demonstrated how successful \"Whale Wars\" and the Sea Shepherd has been. \n\nIn February 2010, \"Whale Whores\" was nominated for a Genesis Award in the television comedy category. The Genesis Awards pay tribute to news and entertainment media for outstanding work that raise public understanding of animal issues. \"Whale Whores\" ultimately lost to the \"Family Guy\" episode \"Dog Gone\".\n\n\"Whale Whores\", along with the thirteen other episodes from \"South Park\"s thirteenth season, were released on a three-disc DVD set and two-disc Blu-ray set in the United States on March 16, 2010. The sets included brief audio commentaries by Parker and Stone for each episode, a collection of deleted scenes, and a special mini-feature \"Inside Xbox: A Behind-the-Scenes Tour of South Park Studios\", which discussed the process behind animating the show with \"Inside Xbox\" host Major Nelson.\n\n"}
{"id": "31070516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31070516", "title": "Workplace bullying in academia", "text": "Workplace bullying in academia\n\nBullying in academia is a form of workplace bullying which takes places in the institutions of higher education, such as colleges and universities. It is believed to be common, although has not received as much attention from researchers as bullying in some other contexts. Academia is highly competitive and has a well defined hierarchy, with junior staff being particularly vulnerable. Although most universities have policies on workplace bullying, individual campuses develop and implement their own protocols. This often leaves victims with no recourse. \n\nAcademic mobbing is a sophisticated form of bullying where academicians gang up to diminish the intended victim through intimidation, unjustified accusations, humiliation, and general harassment. These behaviors are often invisible to others and difficult to prove. Victims of academic mobbing may suffer from stress, depression and suicidal thoughts, as well as posttraumatic stress disorder.\n\nBullying is the longstanding violence, physical or psychological, conducted by an individual or group and directed against an individual who is not able to defend himself in the actual situation, with a conscious desire to hurt, threaten, or frighten that individual or put him under stress.\n\nWorkplace bullying ranges into the following categories.\n\nSeveral aspects of academia lend themselves to the practice and discourage its reporting and mitigation. Its leadership is usually drawn from the ranks of faculty, most of whom have not received the management training that could enable an effective response to such situations. The perpetrators may possess tenure—a high-status and protected position—or the victims may belong to the increasing number of adjunct professors, who are often part-time employees.\n\nAcademic mobbing is the most prominent type of bullying in academia. Academic victims of bullying may also be particularly conflict-averse.\n\nThe generally decentralized nature of academic institutions can make it difficult for victims to seek recourse, and appeals to outside authority have been described as \"the kiss of death.\" Therefore, academics who are subject to bullying in workplace are often cautious about reporting any problems. Social media has recently been used to expose or allege bullying in academia anonymously. \nBullying research credits an organizational rift in two interdependent and adversarial systems that comprise a larger structure of nearly all colleges and universities worldwide: faculty and administration. While both systems distribute employee power across standardized bureaucracies, administrations favor an ascription-oriented business model with a standardized criteria determining employee rank.\n\nFaculty depend on greater open-ended and improvised standards that determine rank and job retention. The leveraged intradepartmental peer reviews (although often at a later time, these three reviews are believed to be leveraged by the fact the peers determine promotions of one another at later times) of faculty for annual reappointment of tenure-track, tenure, and post-tenure review is believed to offer \"unregulated gray area\" that nurture the origin of bullying cases in academia. Although tenure and post-tenure review lead to interdepartmental evaluation, and all three culminate in an administrative decision, bullying is commonly a function of administrative input before or during the early stages of intradepartmental review.\n\nKenneth Westhues' study of mobbing in academia found that vulnerability was increased by personal differences such as being a foreigner or of a different sex; by working in a post-modern field such as music or literature; financial pressure; or having an aggressive superior. Other factors included envy, heresy and campus politics.\n\nThe bullying in this workplace has been described as somewhat more subtle than usual. Its recipients may be the target of unwanted physical contact, violence, obscene or loud language during meetings, be disparaged among their colleagues in venues they are not aware of, and face difficulties when seeking promotion. It may also be manifested by undue demands for compliance with regulations.\n\nA 2008 study of the topic, conducted on the basis of a survey at a Canadian university, concluded that the practice had several unproductive costs, including increased employee turnover.\n\nVictims of academic mobbing may suffer from \"stress, depression and suicidal thoughts\" as well as posttraumatic stress disorder. The psychological scars have been described as potentially worse than with sexual harassment, and they may not heal for many years.\n\nIn 2008 the United Kingdom's University and College Union released the results of a survey taken among its 9,700 members. 51% of respondents said they had never been bullied, 16.7% that they had occasionally experienced it, and 6.7% that they were \"always\" or \"often\" subjected to bullying. The results varied by member institutions, with respondents from the University of East London reporting the highest incidence.\n\nThe \"Times Higher Education\" commissioned a survey in 2005 and received 843 responses. Over 40% reported they had been bullied, with 33% reporting \"unwanted physical contact\" and 10% reporting physical violence; about 75% reported they were aware that co-workers had been bullied. The incidence rate found in this survey was higher than that usually found via internal polling (12 to 24 percent).\n\nAuthor C. K. Gunsalus describes the problem as \"low incidence, high severity\", analogous to research misconduct. She identifies the aggressors' misuse of the concepts of academic freedom and collegiality as a commonly used strategy.\n\nUniversity bullying policies and processes are open to misuse, however, and the AAUP notes that faculty who dissent on academic governance issues or who complain about workplace inequities may become the target for retaliatory bullying complaints aimed to silence unpopular views.\n\nIn a 2005 British study, around 35% of medical students reported having been bullied. Around one in four of the 1,000 students questioned said they had been bullied by a doctor, while one in six had been bullied by a nurse. Manifestations of bullying included:\n\nBooks\n\nAcademic papers\n\n"}
