{"id": "71095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=71095", "title": "Atlantic Canada", "text": "Atlantic Canada\n\nAtlantic Canada, also called the Atlantic provinces, is the region of Canada comprising the four provinces located on the Atlantic coast, excluding Quebec: the three Maritime provinces – New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, and Prince Edward Island – and the easternmost province of Newfoundland and Labrador. The population of the four Atlantic provinces in 2016 was about 2,300,000 on half a million km. The provinces combined had an approximate GDP of $121.888 billion in 2011.\n\nThe first Premier of Newfoundland, Joey Smallwood, coined the term \"Atlantic Canada\" when Newfoundland joined the Dominion of Canada in 1949. He believed that it would have been presumptuous for Newfoundland to assume that it could include itself within the existing term \"Maritime Provinces,\" used to describe the cultural similarities shared by New Brunswick, Prince Edward Island, and Nova Scotia. The three Maritime provinces entered Confederation during the 19th century (New Brunswick and Nova Scotia were founding members of the Dominion of Canada in 1867, and Prince Edward Island joined in 1873). Today, Atlantic Canada is a culturally distinct region of the country, with the original founding cultures of Celtic, English, and French remaining strong and vibrant to this day.\n\nAlthough Quebec has physical Atlantic coasts on the Gulf of St. Lawrence, Ungava Bay, and the Hudson Strait, it is generally not considered an Atlantic Province, instead being classified as part of Central Canada along with Ontario.\n\n2016 census figures for \"Metropolitan Areas\" (broadest definition, includes entire municipalities and all commuter municipalities) and \"Population Centres\" (limited to actual continuously-built-up area) in Atlantic Canada. The list includes communities above 15,000, by Metropolitan Area population, or 10,000 by Population Centre population.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7266679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7266679", "title": "Bedford Level experiment", "text": "Bedford Level experiment\n\nThe Bedford Level experiment is a series of observations carried out along a length of the Old Bedford River on the Bedford Level of the Cambridgeshire Fens in the United Kingdom, during the 19th and early 20th centuries, to measure the curvature of the Earth. Samuel Birley Rowbotham, who conducted the first observations starting in 1838, claimed he had proven the Earth to be flat. However, in 1870, after adjusting Rowbotham's method to avoid the effects of atmospheric refraction, Alfred Russel Wallace found a curvature consistent with a spherical Earth.\n\nAt the point chosen for all the experiments, the river is a slow-flowing drainage canal running in an uninterrupted straight line for a stretch to the north-east of the village of Welney. This makes it an ideal location to directly measure the curvature of the Earth, as Rowbotham wrote in \"Zetetic Astronomy:\"\n\nThe first experiment at this site was conducted by Rowbotham in the summer of 1838. He waded into the river and used a telescope held above the water to watch a boat, with a flag on its mast above the water, row slowly away from him. He reported that the vessel remained constantly in his view for the full to Welney bridge, whereas, had the water surface been curved with the accepted circumference of a spherical earth, the top of the mast should have been some below his line of sight. He published this observation using the pseudonym \"Parallax\" in 1849 and subsequently expanded it into a book, \"Earth Not a Globe\", published in 1865.\nRowbotham repeated his experiments several times over the years but his claims received little attention until, in 1870, a supporter by the name of John Hampden offered a wager that he could show, by repeating Rowbotham's experiment, that the earth was flat. The noted naturalist and qualified surveyor Alfred Russel Wallace accepted the wager. Wallace, by virtue of his surveyor's training and knowledge of physics, avoided the errors of the preceding experiments and won the bet.\nThe crucial steps were to\nDespite Hampden initially refusing to accept the demonstration, Wallace was awarded the bet by the referee, editor of \"The Field\" sports magazine.\nHampden subsequently published a pamphlet alleging that Wallace had cheated and sued for his money. Several protracted court cases ensued, with the result that Hampden was imprisoned for threatening to kill Wallace and for libel.\nThe same court ruled that the wager had been invalid because Hampden retracted the bet and required that Wallace return the money to Hampden.\nWallace, who had been unaware of Rowbotham's earlier experiments, was criticized by his peers for \"his 'injudicious' involvement in a bet to 'decide' the most fundamental and established of scientific facts\".\n\nIn 1901, Henry Yule Oldham, a reader in geography at King's College, Cambridge, reproduced Wallace's results using three poles fixed at equal height above water level. When viewed through a theodolite (a precision instrument for measuring angles), the middle pole was found to be almost higher than the poles at each end. This version of the experiment was taught in schools until photographs of the Earth from space became available.\nAdvocates of a flat Earth, however, were not deterred: on 11 May 1904 Lady Elizabeth Anne Blount, who would go on to be influential in the formation of the Flat Earth Society, hired a commercial photographer to use a telephoto lens camera to take a picture from Welney of a large white sheet she had placed, the bottom edge near the surface of the river, at Rowbotham's original position away. The photographer, Edgar Clifton from Dallmeyer's studio, mounted his camera two feet above the water at Welney and was surprised to be able to obtain a picture of the target, which he believed should have been invisible to him given the low mounting point of the camera. Lady Blount published the pictures far and wide.\n\nThese controversies became a regular feature in the \"English Mechanic\" magazine in 1904–05, which published Blount's photo and reported two experiments in 1905 that showed the opposite results. One of these, by Clement Stratton on the Ashby Canal, showed a dip on a sight-line only above the surface.\n\nAtmospheric refraction can produce the results noted by Rowbotham and Blount. Because the density of air in the Earth's atmosphere decreases with height above the Earth's surface, all light rays travelling nearly horizontally bend downward (assuming a curve or change in air temperature along the line of sight). This phenomenon is routinely allowed for in levelling and celestial navigation.\nIf the measurement is close enough to the surface, light rays can curve downward at a rate equal to the mean curvature of the Earth's surface. In this case, the two effects of assumed curvature and refraction could cancel each other out and the Earth will appear flat in optical experiments.\n\nThis would have been aided, on each occasion, by a temperature inversion in the atmosphere with temperature increasing with altitude above the canal, similar to the phenomenon of the superior image mirage. Temperature inversions like this are common. An increase in air temperature or lapse rate of 0.11 degrees Celsius per metre of altitude would create an illusion of a flat canal, and all optical measurements made near ground level would be consistent with a completely flat surface. If the lapse rate were higher than this (temperature increasing with height at a greater rate), all optical observations would be consistent with a concave surface, a \"bowl-shaped earth\". Under average conditions, optical measurements are consistent with a spherical Earth approximately 15% less curved than its true diameter. Repetition of the atmospheric conditions required for each of the many observations is not unlikely, and warm days over still water can produce favourable conditions.\n\nOn 25 July 1896, Ulysses Grant Morrow, a newspaper editor, conducted a similar experiment on the Old Illinois Drainage Canal, Summit, Illinois. Unlike Rowbotham, he was seeking to demonstrate that the surface of the earth was curved: when he too found that his target marker, above water level and distant, was clearly visible he concluded that the Earth's surface was \"concavely\" curved, in line with the expectations of his sponsors, the Koreshan Unity society. The findings were dismissed by critics as the result of atmospheric refraction.\n\n"}
{"id": "19633010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19633010", "title": "Beneficial acclimation hypothesis", "text": "Beneficial acclimation hypothesis\n\nThe beneficial acclimation hypothesis (BAH) is the physiological hypothesis that acclimating to a particular environment (usually thermal) provides an organism with advantages in that environment. First formally tested by Armand Marie Leroi, Albert Bennett, and Richard Lenski in 1994, it has however been a central assumption in historical physiological work that acclimation is adaptive. Further refined by Raymond B. Huey and David Berrigan under the strong inference approach, the hypothesis has been falsified as a general rule by a series of multiple hypotheses experiments.\n\nAcclimation is a set of physiological responses that occurs during an individual's lifetime to chronic laboratory-induced environmental conditions (in contrast to acclimatization). It is one component of adaptation. While physiologists have traditionally assumed that acclimation is beneficial (or explicitly defined it as such), criticism of the adaptationist program by Stephen Jay Gould and Richard Lewontin led to a call for increased robustness in testing adaptationist hypotheses.\n\nThe initial definition of the BAH, as published in 1994 in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences by Leroi et al., is that “acclimation to a particular environment gives an organism a performance advantage in that environment over another organism that has not had the opportunity to acclimate to that particular environment.” This definition was further reworked in an article in American Zoologist 1999 by Raymond B. Huey, David Berrigan, George W. Gilchrist, and Jon C. Herron. They determined that, following Platt's strong inference approach, multiple competing hypotheses were needed to properly assess beneficial acclimation. These included:\n\n1. Beneficial Acclimation. Acclimating to a particular environment confers fitness advantages in that environment.\n2. Optimal Developmental Temperature. There is an ideal temperature to develop at so individuals reared at an optimal temperature compete better in all environments. \n3. Colder (bigger) Is Better. In ectotherms, individuals reared in colder environments tend to develop to a larger body size. These individuals therefore have a fitness advantage in all environments.\n4. Warmer (smaller) Is Better. The inverse of Colder Is Better. Smaller individuals have a fitness advantage.\n5. Developmental Buffering. Development temperature does not affect adult fitness.\n\nThe majority of tests of the beneficial adaptation hypothesis have, following Krogh's principle, centered on the model organisms \"Drosophila melanogaster\" and \"Escherichia coli\". More specifically, experimental tests have centered on easily measured temperature adaptation (although other systems have been studied; see ). Of the several experimental tests of the beneficial acclimation hypothesis, most have rejected it as a universal rule (see reviews ).\n\nInitial experiments by Leroi \"et al.\", the first scientists to address this problem, tested only the beneficial acclimation hypothesis and not the subsequent hypotheses developed by Huey \"et al.\" Colonies of \"E. coli\" were acclimated for seven generations in two different temperature conditions: 32 °C and 41.5 °C. Colonies were then competed against each other at those temperatures. He found that, agreeing with the beneficial acclimation hypothesis, colonies acclimated at 32 °C competed better at 32 °C. However, at 41.5 °C, colonies acclimated at 32 °C competed better as well. This led to the authors' rejection of the generality of beneficial acclimation.\nHuey \"et al.\" examined four previously conducted studies, applying the five competing hypotheses, and found that none of the results of the studies could be entirely explained by beneficial acclimation. Instead, a combination of hypotheses were required to explain the observed patterns of acclimation.\n\nWhile it seems intuitive that acclimation would provide benefits to individuals, the majority of empirical tests of the hypothesis have rejected its general application. Why then is acclimation not beneficial? H. Arthur Woods and Jon F. Harrison examined the possible reasons in a 2002 \"Evolution\" paper. They suggested that:\n\n1. The timescale of adaptation is much longer than that of environmental variation.\n2. Environmental cues for timing of adaptive acclimation are unreliable.\n3. It may cost more to adapt than not to.\n4. Migration by adjacent populations may swamp out genes for adaptive acclimation.\n\nIn response to continuing rejections of the beneficial acclimation hypothesis, a number of common criticisms of experimental tests have been developed:\n\n1. The majority of studies have actually been examining developmental acclimation. That is, rather than acclimating an adult individual and testing, they suggest that developmental switches triggered by particular temperatures result in a different mechanism of acclimation. More recently, it has been found that adult acclimation and developmental acclimation lead to support for different hypotheses.\n\n2. Most studies have included stressful temperatures. Acclimation to those temperatures may decrease fitness in an individual.\n\n3. Finally, a variety of traits are examined in these studies that may only be indirectly linked to fitness. For example, examining longevity as a fitness measure in \"D. melanogaster\" may be irrelevant since fertility declines rapidly with age in this species.\n\nThe majority of studies have concluded the beneficial acclimation hypothesis is not true in all cases, and that alternate hypotheses should be tested. In addition to this, recent studies of the hypothesis have provided additional complications, such as trade-offs evident only in field environments and interactions with behavior and life history traits. The study of developmental and phenotypic plasticity continues.\n\n"}
{"id": "33530103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33530103", "title": "Beringia lowland tundra", "text": "Beringia lowland tundra\n\nThe Beringia lowland tundra is a tundra ecoregion of North America, on the west coast of Alaska, mostly covered in wetland.\n\nThese are areas of flat, wet, lowland on the Bering Sea coast of Alaska north as far as the Kotzebue Sound, and on the eastern coasts of the offshore St Lawrence Island and St. Matthew Island. Lakes and ponds cover almost a quarter of the area, and wetlands cover most of it. The southern Bristol Bay end of this coast receives much more rainfall than Kotzebue Sound in the north.\n\nThese flat lands are mostly covered in sedges and grass with shrubland on the more sloping areas such as Bristol Bay. Sedge plants include \"Eriophorum angustifolium\" and \"Carex\" species, while the dominant shrubs are ericas such as crowberry (\"Empetrum nigrum\").\n\nWildlife includes large colonies of seabirds on the islands and waterbirds and shorebirds in the many wetlands such as the Kuskokwim River delta, one of the largest waterbird nesting areas in the world and home to the world's largest communities of tundra swan, most of the world's emperor goose, and half of the world's black brant (Branta bernicla). The lagoon that forms the heart of Izembek National Wildlife Refuge on the Alaska Peninsula has also long been recognised as an important staging ground for migrating birds. Other birds of the coastal wetlands include bristle-thighed curlew, dotterel, bar-tailed godwit, and Pacific golden plover while seabirds of include Steller's eider and the large colonies of murre on the islands.\n\nMammals include North American river otter (\"Lontra canadensis\"), stoat (\"Mustela erminea\"), least weasel (\"Mustela nivalis\"), grizzly bear (\"Ursus arctos horribilis\"), moose (\"Alces alces\"), and caribou (\"Rangifer tarandus\"). One of the largest bear populations is found in Katmai National Park and Preserve and on Iliamna Lake.\nThis ecoregion is almost intact apart from small fishing settlements on the coasts. Protected areas include: in the north the Bering Land Bridge National Preserve on the Seward Peninsula and Selawik National Wildlife Refuge; the Yukon Delta National Wildlife Refuge; and around Bristol Bay and on the Alaska Peninsula, Togiak National Wildlife Refuge on the north of the bay, Izembek National Wildlife Refuge, Alaska Peninsula National Wildlife Refuge along the southern coast of the peninsula, Becharof National Wildlife Refuge and Katmai National Park and Preserve. Also St. Matthew Island is one of the many that make up Alaska Maritime National Wildlife Refuge.\n"}
{"id": "9973863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9973863", "title": "Bruno Itoua", "text": "Bruno Itoua\n\nBruno Jean-Richard Itoua (born 6 October 1956) is a Congolese politician who has served in the government of Congo-Brazzaville as Minister of Higher Education since 2016. Previously he was Director-General of the National Oil Company of Congo (\"Société Nationale des Pétroles du Congo\", SNPC) from 1998 to 2005, Minister of Energy and Hydraulics from 2005 to 2011, and Minister of Scientific Research from 2011 to 2016.\n\nAn ethnic Mbochi and a member of the Gamboma clan, Itoua was born in Pointe-Noire but was considered a native of Cuvette Department. He graduated from the \"École spéciale des travaux publics\", a French civil engineering school in Paris, in 1982. During the 1980s, he worked in Congo-Brazzaville at the National Electricity Company and subsequently at the subsidiary oil company Elf-Congo. He held various posts at Elf-Congo from 1985 to 1997.\n\nUnder President Denis Sassou Nguesso, Itoua was appointed as Adviser to the President for Hydrocarbons, Mines, Energy, and Hydraulics in 1997, and he was additionally appointed as Director-General of the National Oil Company of Congo (\"Société Nationale des Pétroles du Congo\", SNPC) in April 1998. He was also appointed as a member of the administrative council of \"Hydro-Congo\", the Congolese oil exploration and exploitation company, on 31 December 1999. As head of the state oil company and oil adviser to President Sassou Nguesso, Itoua was considered as \"one of the country's most powerful men\", and he was characterized as \"a sort of honorary son\" of Sassou Nguesso due to his aunt's friendship with the President.\n\nAfter seven years at the head of the SNPC, Itoua was appointed to the government as Minister of Energy and Hydraulics on 7 January 2005. Denis Gokana was appointed to replace him at the SNPC. As Minister of Energy and Hydraulics, Itoua was responsible for overseeing some major projects intended to increase the water supply.\n\nItoua was elected as the President of the Executive Bureau of the \"Patronage Saint-Anne\" football club on 16 February 2007. He assumed that position on 5 April.\n\nIn the June–August 2007 parliamentary election, Itoua was elected to the National Assembly as the candidate of the ruling Congolese Party of Labour (PCT) for Ollombo I constituency; he won the seat in the first round with 68.71% of the vote, defeating independent candidate Fidèle Bossa and Club 2002-PUR candidate Paud Rock Joseph.\n\nIn a minor government reshuffle on 12 December 2011, Itoua switched ministries with Henri Ossébi, becoming Minister of Scientific Research. Itoua stood again as the PCT candidate for Ollombo I constituency in the July–August 2012 parliamentary election; he again won the seat in the first round of voting, receiving 100% of the vote. Following the election, he was retained in his post as Minister of Scientific Research and Technological Innovation in the government named on 25 September 2012.\n\nAfter Sassou Nguesso's victory in the March 2016 presidential election, he moved Itoua to the post of Minister of Higher Education on 30 April 2016. In the July 2017 parliamentary election, he was re-elected to the National Assembly as the PCT candidate in the first constituency of Ollombo, winning the seat in the first round with 75% of the vote.\n\n"}
{"id": "55347772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55347772", "title": "Calles-Morrow Agreement", "text": "Calles-Morrow Agreement\n\nThe Calles-Morrow Agreement was brokered on the cusp of Mexican oil expropriation. Political actors from Mexico and the United States negotiated the settlement over the course of 1927 and 1928, after “a decade of wrangling” between the two countries that followed the creation of the Mexican Constitution of 1917. Succinctly, Calles-Morrow affirmed the legitimacy of oil-land titles obtained, and maintained, by foreign industries prior to the ratification of the 1917 Constitution. The political statement conveyed by the accord remains a topic of interpretive debate. Some historians argue that Calles-Morrow revealed a delicate partiality on the part of Mexican president Plutarco Elías Calles toward foreign companies: concisely summarized, “where ‘positive acts’ had been performed prior to 1917, the companies received confirmatory concessions of indefinite duration.” Others more drastically assert that through this agreement, Calles “attempted completely to surrender the country to foreign imperialism.”\n\nUpon President Calles’ entrance into office, it appeared as though his predecessor, Álvaro Obregón’s, “personal promise to ease the pressure on the oil firms” would disintegrate under the new administration. When he served as the minister of industry, then-General Calles had attempted to negotiate an interim agreement affording “provisional” oil-drilling permits to international operators, contingent on their compliance with regulations determined by the Mexican government. Foreign oil executives recoiled at the proposition, however, as they were “no more willing to comply with future legislation… than to pay royalties on land they already held under private contract.” Tensions between Calles’ administration and oil companies escalated to such an extent that in early 1927, foreign outfits began drilling illegally with the intention of prompting a governmental counter-response. Sensing the looming menace of U.S. military involvement, Calles directed Mexican troops to seal oil wells and valves, before finally commanding General Lázaro Cárdenas to execute arson, strategically, at foreign-oil sites. At the heart of the confrontation was a desire—notably shared by both sides—to resolve the fiscal and constitutional uncertainties (e.g. exactions and “pre-constitutional property rights”) surrounding oil production, following the drastic redefinitions that emerged from the Mexican Revolution.\n\nWith the financial downturn that occurred in Mexico in 1927, Calles came to view an accord with foreign oil companies as an economic exigency. However, the president remained “well aware of national [aversion toward] placing the control of natural resources in the hands of foreigners,” so he strove, in a shrewd political move, to “criticize[] the foreign oil companies while simultaneously creating a legal basis for their continued operation in Mexico.” As an agreement appeared increasingly imminent, social commentators of the day remarked that Calles’ possessed three potential directions: he could “actually confiscate oil fields held by Americans”; continue professing support for the 1917 Constitution, while avoiding any sort of concrete confiscation measures, behind the scenes; or else “admit the legality of American titles to Mexican oil lands.”\n\nInto the scene stepped U.S. Ambassador Dwight Morrow, a former “corporate lawyer and partner in… J.P. Morgan” whose banking history linked him to a number of Mexico’s creditors. Morrow made a significant impression on Calles, who proved receptive to Morrow’s alleged “face-saving solution… [in which the] Mexican Supreme Court would declare the [existing petroleum] law to be ex post facto.” As a result of the pair’s relative rapport, the titular agreement finally took shape. Calles’ government altered the standing Petroleum Act of 1925 to permit the extension of so-called “confirmatory concessions” to oil corporations that had obtained their subsoil rights before the midway mark of 1917. These concessions were dealt to applicant oil companies “without limitation[s] of time.” Further, Calles successfully lobbied the State Department to embrace the notion of “positive acts,” in which corporations would relinquish claims to “pre-1917 oil reserves on which they had made no improvements.”\n\nOil companies did not receive the Calles-Morrow agreement well, as many claimed that “the new legislation did not go far enough” in securing them a lasting presence in Mexico. Finding the concept of “concessions” to be condescending, recalcitrant petroleum executives desired “an amendment to the 1917 Constitution or a comprehensive definition of what were their rights on May 1, 1917.” Nonetheless, on the whole, U.S.-Mexican relations proceeded amicably for the remainder of Calles’ tenure, largely due to the Mexican president’s increasingly conservative leanings, which advantaged U.S. commercial interests. In the end, however, Calles’ successor, Lázaro Cárdenas, effectively dismantled the Calles-Morrow agreement as he initiated an economic transition “from a phase of postrevolutionary reconstruction… to one of depression-induced industrialization and state intervention,” which manifested, finally, in the Mexican oil expropriation.\n"}
{"id": "38849149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38849149", "title": "Cattle slaughter in India", "text": "Cattle slaughter in India\n\nCattle slaughter, especially cow slaughter is a controversial topic in India because of the cattle's traditional status as an endeared and respected living being to many in Hinduism, Sikhism, Jainism, in contrast to cattle being considered as an acceptable source of meat by many in Islam, Christianity as well as some adherents of Indian religions. More specifically, the cow's slaughter has been shunned because of a number of reasons such as being associated with god Krishna in Hinduism, cattle being respected as an integral part of rural livelihoods and an essential economic necessity. Cattle slaughter has also been opposed by various Indian religions because of the ethical principle of Ahimsa (non-violence) and the belief in the unity of all life.\n\nLegislation against cattle slaughter is in place throughout most states of India except Kerala, West Bengal, and parts of the North-East.\n\nArticle 48 of the Constitution of India prescribes the state to prohibit the slaughter of cows and calves and other milch and draught cattle. On 26 October 2005, the Supreme Court of India, in a landmark judgement upheld the constitutional validity of anti-cow slaughter laws enacted by different state governments in India. 20 out of 29 states in India currently have various regulations prohibiting either the slaughter or sale of cows. Kerala, Goa, Karnataka, Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Meghalaya, Nagaland and Tripura are the states where there are no restrictions on cow slaughter. As per existing meat export policy in India, the export of beef (meat of cow, oxen and calf) is prohibited. Bone in meat, carcass, half carcass of buffalo is also prohibited and is not permitted to be exported. Only the boneless meat of buffalo, meat of goat and sheep and birds is permitted for export. India feels that the restriction on export to only boneless meat with a ban on meat with bones will add to the brand image of Indian meat. Animal carcasses are subjected to maturation for at least 24 hours before deboning. Subsequent heat processing during the bone removal operation is believed to be sufficient to kill the Foot-and-Mouth Disease virus.\n\nThe laws governing cattle slaughter in India vary greatly from state to state. The \"Preservation, protection and improvement of stock and prevention of animal diseases, veterinary training and practice\" is Entry 15 of the State List of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution, meaning that State legislatures have exclusive powers to legislate the prevention of slaughter and preservation of cattle. Some States allow the slaughter of cattle with restrictions like a \"fit-for-slaughter\" certificate which may be issued depending on factors like age and gender of cattle, continued economic viability etc. Others completely ban cattle slaughter, while there is no restriction in a few states. On 26 May 2017, the Ministry of Environment of Indian Central Government led by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) imposed a ban on the sale and purchase of cattle for slaughter at animal markets across India, under Prevention of Cruelty to Animals statutes, although Supreme Court of India suspended the ban on sale of cattle in its judgement in July 2017, giving relief to the multi-billion dollar beef and leather industries.\n\nAccording to UN's Food and Agriculture Organization and European Union, India beef consumption per capita per year is the world's lowest amongst the countries it surveyed. Under the current trade laws of India, the export and import of beef (meat of cow, oxen and calf) is prohibited. Bone in meat, carcass, half carcass of buffalo is also prohibited and is not permitted to be exported. Only the boneless meat of buffalo (carabeef) is permitted for export. The buffalo-meat exports constitute the predominant portion of the beef trade in India. India produced of beef in 2012, of which were consumed domestically and were exported. According to a 2012 report, India ranks 5th in the world in beef production and 7th in domestic consumption. According to a 2016 USDA review, India has rapidly grown to become the world's largest beef exporter, accounting for 20% of world's beef trade based on its large water buffalo meat processing industry. Surveys of cattle slaughter operations in India have reported hygiene and ethics concerns. The Indian government requires mandatory microbiological and other testing of exported beef.\n\nThe scope, extent and status of animals in ancient India is a subject of scholarly dispute. One group interprets ancient Hindu texts as supporting animal sacrifice. For example, according to D. N. Jha’s 2009 work, The Myth of the Holy Cow, cattle including cows were neither inviolable nor revered in the ancient times as they were later. A \"Gryhasutra\" recommends that beef be eaten by the mourners, after a funeral ceremony as a ritual rite of passage. According to Marvin Harris, the Vedic literature is contradictory, with some suggesting ritual slaughter and meat consumption, while others suggesting a taboo on meat eating.\nAnimal sacrifice was rejected, and the protection of animal life was championed by Jainism, on the grounds that violence against life forms is a source of suffering in the universe and a human being creates bad karma by violence against any living being. The \"Chandogya Upanishad\" mentions the ethical value of Ahimsa, or non-violence towards all beings. By mid 1st millennium BCE, all three major Indian religions – Buddhism, Hinduism and Jainism – were championing non-violence as an ethical value, and something that impacted one's rebirth. According to Harris, by about 200 CE, food and feasting on animal slaughter were widely considered as a form of violence against life forms, and became a religious and social taboo. Ralph Fitch, a gentleman merchant of London and one of the earliest English travellers to India wrote a letter home in 1580 stating, \"They have a very strange order among them - they worship a cow and esteem much of the cow's dung to paint the walls of their houses ... They eat no flesh, but live by roots and rice and milk.\"\n\nThe cow has been a symbol of wealth in India since ancient times.\n\nAccording to Nanditha Krishna, the cow veneration in ancient India \"probably originated from the pastoral Aryans\" in the Vedic era, whose religious texts called for non-violence towards all bipeds and quadrupeds, and often equated killing of a cow with the killing of a human being especially a Brahmin. The hymn 10.87.16 of the Hindu scripture \"Rigveda\" (~1200–1500 BCE), states Nanditha Krishna, condemns all killings of men, cattle and horses, and prays to god Agni to punish those who kill.\nAccording to Harris, the literature relating to cow veneration became common in 1st millennium CE, and by about 1000 CE vegetarianism, along with a taboo against beef, became a well accepted mainstream Hindu tradition. This practice was inspired by the belief in Hinduism that a soul is present in all living beings, life in all its forms is interconnected, and non-violence towards all creatures is the highest ethical value. Vegetarianism is a part of the Hindu culture. God Krishna, one of the incarnations (Avatar) of Vishnu, is associated with cows, adding to its endearment.\n\nMany ancient and medieval Hindu texts debate the rationale for a voluntary stop to cow slaughter and the pursuit of vegetarianism as a part of a general abstention from violence against others and all killing of animals. Some significant debates between pro-non-vegetarianism and pro-vegetarianism, with mention of cattle meat as food, is found in several books of the Hindu epic, the \"Mahabharata\", particularly its Book III, XII, XIII and XIV. It is also found in the \"Ramayana\". These two epics are not only literary classics, but they have also been popular religious classics.\n\nThe Mahabharata debate presents one meat-producing hunter who defends his profession as dharmic. The hunter, in this ancient Sanskrit text, states that meat consumption should be okay because animal sacrifice was practiced in the Vedic age, that the flesh nourishes people, that man must eat to live and plants like animals are alive too, that the nature of life is such every life form eats the other, that no profession is totally non-violent because even agriculture destroys numerous living beings when the plough digs the land. The hunter's arguments are, states Alsdorf, followed by stanzas that present support for restricted meat-eating on specific occasions.\n\nThe pro-vegetarianism sections of these Hindu texts counter these views. One section acknowledges that the Vedas do mention sacrifice, but not killing the animal. The proponents of vegetarianism state that Vedic teachings explicitly teach against killing, its verses can be interpreted in many ways, that the correct interpretation is of the sacrifice as the interiorized spiritual sacrifice, one where it is an \"offering of truth (\"satya\") and self-restraint (\"damah\")\", with the proper sacrifice being one \"with reverence as the sacrificial meal and Veda study as the herbal juices\". The sections that appeal for vegetarianism, including abstention from cow slaughter, state that life forms exist in different levels of development, some life forms have more developed sensory organs, that non-violence towards fellow man and animals who experience pain and suffering is an appropriate ethical value. It states that one's guiding principle should be conscientious \"atmaupamya\" (literally, \"to-respect-others-as-oneself\").\n\nAccording to Ludwig Alsdorf, \"Indian vegetarianism is unequivocally based on \"ahimsa\" (non-violence)\" as evidenced by ancient \"smritis\" and other ancient texts of Hinduism. He adds that the endearment and respect for cattle in Hinduism is more than a commitment to vegetarianism, it has become integral to its theology. According to Juli Gittinger, it is often argued that cow sacredness and protection is a fundamental quality of Hinduism, but she considers this to be a false claim. This, states Gittinger, could be understood more as an example of \"sanskritization\" or presentation of certain traditions followed by its upper castes as purer, informed form of Hinduism and possibly an influence of Jainism on Hinduism. The respect for cattle is widespread but not universal. Some Hindus (Shaktism) practice animal sacrifice and eat meat including beef at certain festivals. According to Christopher Fuller, animal sacrifices have been rare among the Hindus outside a few eastern states and Himalayan regions of the Indian subcontinent. To the majority of modern Indians, states Alsdorf, respect for cattle and disrespect for slaughter is a part of their ethos and there is \"no \"ahimsa\" without renunciation of meat consumption\".\n\nJainism is against violence to all living beings, including cattle. According to the Jaina sutras, humans must avoid all killing and slaughter because all living beings are fond of life, they suffer, they feel pain, they like to live, and long to live. All beings should help each other live and prosper, according to Jainism, not kill and slaughter each other.\n\nIn the Jain tradition, neither monks nor laypersons should cause others or allow others to work in a slaughterhouse. Jains believe that vegetarian sources can provide adequate nutrition, without creating suffering for animals such as cattle. According to some Jain scholars, slaughtering cattle increases ecological burden from human food demands since the production of meat entails intensified grain demands, and reducing cattle slaughter by 50 percent would free up enough land and ecological resources to solve all malnutrition and hunger worldwide. The Jain community leaders, states Christopher Chapple, has actively campaigned to stop all forms of animal slaughter including cattle.\n\nJains have led a historic campaign to ban the slaughter of cows and all other animals, particularly during their annual festival of Paryushana (also called Daslakshana by the Digambara). Historical records, for example, state that the Jain leaders lobbied Mughal emperors to ban slaughter of cattles and other animals, during this 8 to 12 day period. In some cases, such as during the 16th century rule of Akbar, they were granted their request and an edict was issued by Akbar. Jahangir revoked the ban upon coronation, reinstated it in 1610 when Jain community approached and appealed to him, then later reversed the 1610 ban with a new edict.\n\nThe texts of Buddhism state ahimsa to be one of five ethical precepts, which requires a practicing Buddhist to \"refrain from killing living beings\". Slaughtering cow has been a taboo, with some texts suggest taking care of a cow is a means of taking care of \"all living beings\". Cattle is seen as a form of reborn human beings in the endless rebirth cycles in samsara, protecting animal life and being kind to cattle and other animals is good karma. The Buddhist texts state that killing or eating meat is wrong, and they urge Buddhist laypersons to not operate slaughterhouses, nor trade in meat. Indian Buddhist texts encourage a plant-based diet.\n\nSaving animals from slaughter for meat, is believed in Buddhism to be a way to acquire merit for better rebirth. According to Richard Gombrich, there has been a gap between Buddhist precepts and practice. Vegetarianism is admired, states Gombrich, but often it is not practiced. Nevertheless, adds Gombrich, there is a general belief among Theravada Buddhists that eating beef is worse than other meat and the ownership of cattle slaughterhouses by Buddhists is relatively rare.\n\nAccording to Arvind-Pal Singh Mandair, the cow, the buffalo and the ox are an integral part of rural Sikh livelihoods, and these are never slaughtered for consumption by any method, treated with respect and beef is strictly avoided. Amritdhari Sikhs, or those baptized with the \"Amrit\", have been strict vegetarians, abstaining from all eggs and meat, including cattle meat. According to Eleanor Nesbitt, the general issue of vegetarianism versus non-vegetarianism is controversial within Sikhism, and contemporary Sikhs disagree. The uninitiated Sikhs too are not habitual meat-eaters by choice, and beef (cow meat) has been a traditional taboo.\n\nRanjit Singh, founder of the Sikh Empire and Maharaja from 1801 to 1839, banned cow slaughter throughout his domains.\n\nWith the arrival of Islamic rule as the Delhi Sultanate in the 12th-century, Islamic dietary practices entered India. According to the verses of the Quran, such as 16:5–8 and 23:21–23, God created cattle to benefit man and recommends Muslims to eat cattle meat, but forbids pork. Cattle slaughter had been and continued to be a religiously approved practice among the Muslim rulers and the followers of Islam, particularly on festive occasions such as the Bakri-Id.\n\nThe earliest texts on the invasion of the Indian subcontinent mention the cow slaughter taboo, and its use by Muslim army commanders as a political message by committing the taboo inside temples. For example, in the early 11th century narrative of Al-Biruni, the story of 8th-century Muhammad bin Qasim conquest of Multan is mentioned. In this Al-Biruni narrative, according to Manan Ahmed Asif – a historian of Islam in South and Southeast Asia, \"Qasim first asserts the superiority of Islam over the polytheists by committing a taboo (killing a cow) and publicly soiling the idol (giving the cow meat as an offering)\" before allowing the temple to continue as a place of worship. In the early 13th-century Persian text of Chach Nama, the defending fort residents call the attacking Muslims in rage as \"Candalas and cow-eaters\", but adds André Wink, the text is silent about \"cow-worship\". In the texts of court historians of the Delhi Sultanate, and later the Mughal Empire, cow slaughter taboo in India is mentioned, as well as cow slaughter as a means of political message, desecration, as well as its prohibition by Sultans and Muslim Emperors as a means of accommodation of public sentiments in the Indian subcontinent.\n\nIn 1756–57, in what was his fourth invasion of India, the founder of the Durrani Empire, Ahmad Shāh Durrānī sacked Delhi and plundered Agra, Mathura, and Vrndavana. On his way back to Afghanistan, he attacked the Golden Temple in Amritsar and filled its sacred pool with the blood of slaughtered cows.\n\nWhile most Muslims consider cattle to be a source of religiously acceptable meat, some Muslim Sufi sects of India practiced vegetarianism, at least during periods of prayers and fasting. Their reasons, states Richard Foltz, were same as other non-Muslim Indians, that is compassion for life and animals. According to Foltz, this Sufi practice was probably influenced by Hindus or Buddhists of South Asia.\n\nChristianity arrived on the Indian sea coast with Christian travelers and merchants. The colonial Portuguese conquerors attempted to establish a presence by conquering islands and ports, force converting those they met into Roman Catholicism. The conversion ritual involved making the converts eat beef and pork as a confirmation that they have given up Hinduism or Islam. However, vegetarianism continued amongst some of the Indian Christians, and an estimated 8% of the contemporary Christians in India don't eat meat including that sourced from cattle. According to Sen, Indian ideas about compassion for animals and humane treatment returned from India to Europe with the Portuguese, and drew praise from Voltaire and Isaac Newton, and influenced Descartes, Rousseau and Shelley to question the ethics of meat production and consumption.\n\nCattle slaughter, in accordance with the Islamic custom, was practiced in the Mughal Empire under its Sunni rulers with a few exceptions. The religiously liberal emperor Akbar, out of respect for the demographic majority of Hindus, criminalized cow slaughtering. In one case, Akbar banished his high official for the offense of cow slaughter. Later, Aurangzeb lifted this prohibition with his \"Fatawa-i-Alamgiri\". Despite cow slaughter no longer being a crime, states Muhammad Mahbubur Rahman, \"no one dared publicly to slaughter cows, particularly in Hindu-dominated areas as people could instantly punish the culprit\".\n\nThe Mughal emperor Humayun stopped eating beef after the killing of cows in a Hindu territory by his soldiers led to clashes, according to the Tezkerah al-Vakiat. Later Mughal emperors Jahangir (1605 – 1627), imposed a ban on cattle slaughter for a few years, not out of respect for Hindus, but because cattle had become scarce.\n\nIn 1645, soon after being appointed Governor of Gujarat by Shah Jahan, Aurangzeb desecrated the Chintamani Parshvanath Jain temple near Sarashpur, Gujarat by killing a cow inside the Jain temple and lopping off the noses of the statues and converting it into a mosque calling it the \"Might of Islam\".\n\nIn present-day Punjab, India, a Hindu delegation to the 9th Sikh guru Guru Tegh Bahadur requested him to ban cow slaughter and told him \"\"Cows are everywhere being slaughtered. If any cow or buffalo belonging to a Hindu is mortally ill the qazi comes and kills it on the spot. Muslims then flay it, cut it in pieces and carry it away. This causes us much distress. If we fail to inform the qazi when a beast is dying he punishes us, saying, \"Why did you not tell me? Now its spirit has gone to hell, whereas had it been killed in the approved Muslim manner its spirit would have gone to paradise.\"\"\n\nAccording to Ian Copland and other scholars, the Maratha Empire, which led a Hindu rebellion against the Muslim Mughal Empire and created a Hindu state in the 17th and 18th centuries, respected mosques, mausoleums and Sufi \"pirs\". However, the Maratha polity sharply enforced the Hindu sentiments for cow protection. This may be linked to the Bhakti movement that developed before the rise of the Maratha Empire, states Copland, where legends and a theology based on the compassion and love stories of Hindu god Krishna, himself a cowherd became integral to regional religiosity.\n\nThe Maratha administration adopted the same approach with Portuguese Christians in the Western Ghats and the peninsular coastal regions. Marathas were liberal, state Copland and others, they respected Christian priests, allowed the building of churches and gave state land to Christian causes. However, cattle protection expected by the Hindu majority was the state norm, which Portuguese Christians were required to respect.\n\nCow slaughter was banned by Maharajah Ranjit Singh, the founder of the Sikh Empire in Punjab. Many butcher houses were banned and restrictions were put on the slaughter of cow and sale of beef in the Sikh Empire, as following the traditions, cow was as sacred to the Sikhs as to the Hindus. During the Sikh reign, cow slaughter was a capital offence, for which perpetrators were even executed.\n\nWith the advent of British rule in India, eating beef along with drinking whiskey, in English-language colleges in Bengal, became a method of fitting in into the British culture. Some Hindus, in the 1830s, consumed beef to show how they \"derided irrational Hindu customs\", according to Metcalf and Metcalf.\n\nThe reverence for the cow played a role in the Indian Rebellion of 1857 against the British East India Company. Hindu and Muslim sepoys in the army of the East India Company came to believe that their paper cartridges, which held a measured amount of gunpowder, were greased with cow and pig fat. The consumption of swine is forbidden in Islam. Since loading the gun required biting off the end of the paper cartridge, they concluded that the British were forcing them to break edicts of their religion. During Bahadur Shah Zafar's brief reign as emperor the killing of a cow was made a capital offence.\n\nHistorians argue that the symbol of the cow was used as a means of mobilizing Hindus. In 1870, the Namdhari Sikhs started the Kukua Revolution, revolting against the British, and seeking to protect the cows from slaughter. A few years later, Swami Dayananda Saraswati called for the stoppage of cow slaughter by the British and suggested the formation of Go-samvardhani Sabhas. In the 1870s, cow protection movements spread rapidly in Punjab, the North-West Frontier Province, Oudh (now Awadh) and Rohilkhand. The Arya Samaj had a tremendous role in skillfully converting this sentiment into a national movement.\n\nThe first \"Gaurakshini sabha\" (cow protection society) was established in the Punjab in 1882. The movement spread rapidly all over North India and to Bengal, Bombay, Madras presidencies and other central provinces. The organization rescued wandering cows and reclaimed them to groom them in places called \"gaushalas\" (cow refuges). Charitable networks developed all through North India to collect rice from individuals, pool the contributions, and re-sell them to fund the \"gaushalas\". Signatures, up to 350,000 in some places, were collected to demand a ban on cow sacrifice. Between 1880 and 1893, hundreds of \"gaushalas\" were opened.\nCow protection sentiment reached its peak in 1893. Large public meetings were held in Nagpur, Haridwar and Benares to denounce beef-eaters. Melodramas were conducted to display the plight of cows, and pamphlets were distributed, to create awareness among those who sacrificed and ate them. Riots broke out between Hindus and Muslims in Mau in the Azamgarh district; it took 3 days for the government to regain control. The rioting was precipitated by contradictory interpretations of a British local magistrate's order. He had apparently asked all the Muslims interested in cow slaughter to register, which undertaking was in fact performed to identify problem-prone areas. However, Muslims had interpreted this as a promise of protection for those who wanted to perform sacrifices.\n\nThe series of violent incidences also resulted in a riot in Bombay involving the working classes, and unrest occurred in places as far away as Rangoon, Burma. An estimated thirty-one to forty-five communal riots broke out over six months and a total of 107 people were killed.\n\nQueen Victoria mentioned the cow protection movement in a letter, dated 8 December 1893, to then Viceroy Lansdowne, writing, \"The Queen greatly admired the Viceroy's speech on the Cow-killing agitation. While she quite agrees in the necessity of perfect fairness, she thinks the Muhammadans do require more protection than Hindus, and they are decidedly by far the more loyal. Though the Muhammadan's cow-killing is made the pretext for the agitation, it is, in fact, directed against us, who kill far more cows for our army, &c., than the Muhammadans.\"\n\nCow slaughter was opposed by some prominent leaders of the independence movement such as Mahatma Gandhi, Bal Gangadhar Tilak, Lala Lajpat Rai, Madan Mohan Malviya, Rajendra Prasad and Purushottam Das Tandon. They supported a ban on cattle slaughter once India gained its independence from the colonial British.\n\nGandhi supported cow protection and opposed cow slaughter, explaining the reverence for cow in March 1945. Gandhi supported the leather industry, but stated that slaughter is unnecessary because the skin can be sourced from cattle after its natural death.\n\nGandhi said, \"I worship it [cow] and I shall defend its worship against the whole world,\" and that, \"the cow is a poem of pity. One reads pity in the gentle animal. She is the mother to millions of Indian mankind. Protection of the cow means protection of the whole dumb creation of God.\" Gandhi considered cow protection as integral to Hindu beliefs, and called \"cow protection to me is one of the most wonderful phenomena in human evolution\" and \"cow protection is the gift of Hinduism to the world, that it is not Tilak or mantra or caste rules that judge Hindus, but \"their ability to protect the cow\". According to Gandhi, cow protection means \"protection of lives that are helpless and weak in the world\". \"I would not kill a human being for protection a cow\", added Gandhi, and \"I will not kill a cow for saving a human life, be it ever so precious\".\n\nOn 25 July 1947, in a prayer meeting, Gandhi opposed laws that were derived from religion. He said, \"In India no law can be made to ban cow-slaughter. I do not doubt that Hindus are forbidden the slaughter of cows. I have been long pledged to serve the cow but how can my religion also be the religion of the rest of the Indians? It will mean coercion against those Indians who are not Hindus.\" According to Gandhi, Hindus should not demand cow slaughter laws based on their religious texts or sentiments, in the same way that Muslims should not demand laws based on Shariat (Quran, Hadith) in India or Pakistan.\n\nIn 1940, one of the Special Committees of the Indian National Congress stated that slaughter of cow and its progeny must be totally prohibited. However, another Committee of the Congress opposed cow slaughter prohibition stating that the skin and leather of cow and its progeny, which is fresh by slaughter should be sold and exported to earn foreign exchange.\n\nIn 1944, the British placed restrictions on cattle slaughter in India, on the grounds that the shortage of cattle was causing anxiety to the Government. The shortage itself was attributed to the increased demand for cattle for cultivation, transport, milk and other purposes. It was decided that, in respect of slaughter by the army authorities, working cattle, as well as, cattle fit for bearing offspring, should not be slaughtered. Accordingly, the slaughter of all cattle below 3 years of age, male cattle between 3 and 10 years, female cattle between 3 and 10 years of age, which are capable of producing milk, as well as all cows which are pregnant or in milk, was prohibited.\n\nThere was a large increase in the number of cattle slaughtered in the years preceding Independence, according to statistics given by Pandit Thakur Dass, during the debate in the Constituent Assembly on 24 November 1948. The number of oxen killed in 1944 was 6,091,828, while in 1945, sixty five lakhs were slaughtered, an increase of more than 4 lakhs. He further stated that the population of oxen in the country decreased by 37 lakhs in 5 years from 1940 to 1945. However, the figures are much lower according to the Dater Singh Committee Report which states that 2,791,828 and 3,167,496 oxen were slaughtered in 1944 and 1945 respectively.\n\nDuring the British Raj, there were several cases of communal riots caused by the slaughter of cows. A historical survey of some major communal riots, between 1717 and 1977, revealed that out of 167 incidents of rioting between Hindus and Muslims, that although in some cases the reasons for provocation of the riots was not given, 22 cases were attributable directly to cow slaughter.\n\nThe Central Government, in a letter dated 20 December 1950, directed the State Governments not to introduce total prohibition on slaughter, stating, \"Hides from slaughtered cattle are much superior to hides from the fallen cattle and fetch a higher price. In the absence of slaughter the best type of hide, which fetches good price in the export market will no longer be available. A total ban on slaughter is thus detrimental to the export trade and work against the interest of the Tanning industry in the country.\"\n\nIn 1955, a senior Congress member of parliament Seth Govind Das drafted a bill for India's parliament for a nationwide ban on cow slaughter, stating that a \"large majority of the party\" was in favour. India's first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru opposed this national ban on cow slaughter, and threatened to resign if the elected representatives passed the bill in India's parliament. The bill failed by a vote of 95 to 12. Nehru declared that it was individual states to decide their laws on cow slaughter, states Donald Smith, and criticized the ban on cow slaughter as \"a wrong step\". However, Nehru's opposition was largely irrelevant, states Steven Wilkinson, because under India's Constitution and federal structure laws such as those on cattle slaughter has been an exclusive State subject rather than being a Central subject. State legislatures such as those of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh enacted their own laws in the 1950s.\nIn 1958, a lawsuit was heard in the Supreme Court of India regarding the constitutionality of the slaughter ban laws in the state, where Qureshi petitioned that the laws infringed on Muslim rights to freely practice their religion such as sacrificing cows on Bakr-Id day. The Court determined that neither the Quran nor the \"Hidaya\" mandates cow slaughter, and the Islamic texts allow a goat or camel be sacrificed instead. Therefore, according to the Court, a total ban on cow slaughter did not infringe on the religious freedom of Muslims under Articles 25 or 48 of its Constitution.\n\nIn 1966, Indian independence activist Jayaprakash Narayan wrote a letter to then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi calling for a ban on cow slaughter. Narayan wrote, \"For myself, I cannot understand why, in a Hindu majority country like India, where rightly or wrongly, there is such a strong feeling about cow-slaughter, there cannot be a legal ban\". In the same year, the Hindu organisations started an agitation demanding a ban on the slaughter of cows. But Indira Gandhi did not accept to the demand.\n\nIn July 1995, the Government of India stated before the Supreme Court that, \"It is obvious that the Central Government as a whole is encouraging scientific and sustainable development of livestock resources and their efficient utilization which inter-alia includes production of quality meat for export as well as for domestic market. This is being done with a view of increasing the national wealth as well as better returns to the farmer.\" In recent decades, the Government has started releasing grants and loans for setting up of modern slaughter houses.\n\nPoor hygiene and prevalence of meat-borne disease has been reported in studies of Indian cattle slaughter-houses. For example, in a 1976–1978 survey of 1,100 slaughtered cattle in Kerala slaughter-houses, Prabhakaran and other scholars reported, \"468 cases of echinococcosis and 19 cases of cysticercosis\", the former affecting 365 livers and 340 lungs. The cattle liver was affected by disease in 79% of cattle and the lung in 73%.\n\nA 2001 study by Sumanth and other scholars on cattle slaughtered in Karnataka reported more than 60% of the carcasses were infected with schistosoma eggs and worms. A 2007 report by Ravindran indicated over 50% of cattle slaughtered in Wayanad were infected.\n\nAccording to media reports, India has numerous illegal slaughterhouses. For example, in the state of Andhra Pradesh, the officials in 2013 reported over 3,000 illegal slaughterhouses. Cattle are traditionally left to freely roam streets and graze in India. These are easy prey to thieves, state Rosanna Masiola and Renato Tomei. According to The New York Times, the organized mafia gangs pick up the cattle they can find and sell them to these illegal slaughterhouses. These crimes are locally called \"cattle rustling\" or \"cattle lifting\". In many cases, the cows belong to poor dairy farmers who lack the facility or infrastructure to feed and maintain the cows, and they don't traditionally keep them penned. According to Masiola and Tomei, the increasing meat consumption has led to cows becoming a target for theft.\n\nThe theft of cattle for slaughter and beef production is economically attractive to the mafias in India. In 2013, states Gardiner Harris, a truck can fit 10 cows, each fetching about 5,000 rupees (about US$94 in 2013), or over US$900 per cattle stealing night operation. In a country where some 800 million people live on less than US$2 per day, such theft-based mafia operations are financially attractive. According to Andrew Buncombe, when smuggled across its border, the price per cattle is nearly threefold higher and the crime is financially more attractive. Many states have reported rising thefts of cattle and associated violence, according to The Indian Express.\n\nAccording to T.N. Madan, Muslim groups have been accused of stealing cattle as a part of their larger violence against non-Muslims. Cattle theft, states David Gilmartin and other scholars, was a common crime in British India and has been a trigger for riots.\n\nAccording to the Bangladeshi newspaper \"The Daily Star\", some of cattle theft operations move the cattle stolen in India across the border into Bangladesh, ahead of festivals such as Eid-ul-Azha when the demand for meat increases. The criminals dye the white or red cows into black, to make identifying the stolen cow difficult. The Border Guard Bangladesh in 2016 reported of confiscating stolen cattle, where some of cattle's original skin color had been \"tampered with\". Hundreds of thousands of cows, states the British newspaper \"The Independent\", are illegally smuggled from India into Bangladesh every year to be slaughtered. Gangs from both sides of the border are involved in this illegal smuggling involving an estimated 1.5 million (15 lakhs) cattle a year, and cattle theft is a source of the supply, states Andrew Buncombe. According to Zahoor Rather, trade in stolen cattle is one of the important crime-related border issues between India and Bangladesh.\n\nSome scholars state that the Hindu views on cattle slaughter and beef eating is caste-based, while other scholars disagree. Dalit Hindus eat beef state the former, while the latter state that the position of Dalit Hindus on cattle slaughter is ambiguous.\n\nDeryck Lodrick states, for example, “beef-eating is common among low caste Hindus\", and vegetarianism is an upper caste phenomenon. In contrast, cow-cherishing, Krishna-worshipping rustic piety, state Susan Bayly and others, has been popular among agriculture-driven, cattle husbandry, farm laboring and merchant castes. These have typically been considered the low-castes in Hinduism. According to Bayly, reverence for the cow is widely shared in India across castes. The traditional belief has also associated death or the dead with being unclean, polluting or defiling, such as those who handle corpse, carrion and animal remains. However, the tradition differentiates between natural or accidental death, and intentional slaughter. According to Frederick J. Simoons, many members of low castes and tribal groups in India reject \"cow slaughter and beef eating, some of them quite strongly\", while others support beef eating and cattle slaughter.\nAccording to Simoons and Lodrick, the reverence for cattle among Hindus, and Indians in general, is more comprehensively understood by considering both the religious dimensions and the daily lives in rural India. The veneration of cow across various Hindu castes, states Lodrick, emerged with the \"fifteenth century revival of Vaishnavism\", when god Krishna along with his cows became a popular object of bhakti (devotional worship). In contrast, other scholars such as J. A. B. van Buitenen and Daniel Sheridan state that the theology and the most popular texts related to Krishna, such as the \"Bhagavad Gita\" was composed by about 2nd century BCE, and the \"Bhagavata Purana\" was composed between 500 and 1000 CE.\n\nAccording to People's Union for Democratic Rights (PUDR), some Dalits work in leather which includes cow-skin and they rely on it for their livelihood. The position of Dalits to cow-protection is highly ambivalent, states PUDR, given their Hindu identity and the \"endemic contradiction - between the 'Hindu' ethos of protecting the cow and a trade dependent fundamentally on the skin of cows\". The selling of old cattle for skin, according to them, is supported by members of both \"dominant and subordinate castes\" for the leather-related economy. Dominant groups, officials and even some Dalits state that \"Dalits are cow-protectors\". The inclusion of Dalits in cow-protection ideology, according to PUDR, is accompanied by \"avowal of loyalty to cow-protection\" exposing the fragility of the cow-protection ideology across castes.\n\nSome Dalit student associations in the Hyderabad region state that beef preparations, such as \"beef biriyani\", is the traditional food of low-castes. Historical evidence does not support this claim, state Claude Levy-Straus and Brigitte Sebastia. Beef as the traditional food of impoverished Dalits is a reconstruction of history and Indian beef dishes are a Mughal era innovation and more recently invented tradition. It is the nineteenth century politics that has associated beef and cattle slaughter with Muslim and Dalit identity, states Sebastia.\n\nAccording to Marvin Harris, the importance of cattle to Hindus and other religious groups is beyond religion, because the cattle has been and remains an important pillar of rural economy. In the traditional economy, states Harris, a team of oxen is \"Indian peasant's tractor, thresher and family car combined\", and the cow is the factory that produces those oxen. The cattle produce nutritious milk, their dung when dried serves as a major cooking fuel, and for the poor the cattle is an essential partner in many stages of agriculture. When cattle fall sick, the family worries over them like Westerners do over their pets or family members. A natural loss of a cattle from untimely death can cripple a poor family, and thus slaughtering a creature so useful and essential is unthinkable. According to Harris, India's unpredictable monsoons and famines over its history meant even greater importance of cattle, because Indian breeds of cattle can survive with little food and water for extended periods of time.\n\nAccording to Britha Mikkelsen and other scholars, cow dung produced by young and old cattle is the traditional cooking fuel as dung-cakes and fertilizer in India. The recycling substitutes over of fossil fuels or of wood every year, providing the majority of cooking fuel needs in rural India. In addition to being essential fuel for rural family, cattle manure is a significant source of fertilizer in Indian agriculture.\n\nThe Indian religions adapted to the rural economic constraints, states Harris. Preserving cattle by opposing slaughter has been and remains an economic necessity and an insurance for the impoverished. The cow is sacred in India, states Harris, not because of superstitious, capricious and ignorant beliefs, but because of real economic imperatives and cattle's role in the Indian tradition of integrated living. Cattle became essential in India, just like dogs or cars became essential in other human cultures, states Harris.\n\nThe slaughterhouses in India have been accused of cruelty against animals by PETA and other animal-rights groups. According to PETA and these groups, the slaughterhouse workers slit animals’ throats with dull blades and let them bleed to death. Cattle are skinned and dismembered while they’re still alive and in full view of other animals.\n\nThe Supreme Court of India, in February 2017, ordered a state governments to stop the illegal slaughterhouses and set up enforcement committees to monitor the treatment of animals used for meat and leather. The Court has also ruled that the Indian Constitution requires Indian citizens to show compassion to the animal kingdom, respect the fundamental rights of animals, and asked the states to prevent cruelty to animals.\n\nAccording to Judith Walsh, widespread cow protection riots occurred repeatedly in British India in the 1880s and 1890s. These were observed in regions of Punjab, United Provinces, Bihar, Bengal, Bombay Presidency and in parts of South Myanmar (Rangoon). The anti-Cow Killing riots of 1893 in Punjab caused the death of at least 100 people. The 1893 cow killing riots started during the Muslim festival of Bakr-Id, the riot repeated in 1894, and they were the largest riots in British India after the 1857 revolt. One of the issues, states Walsh, in these riots was \"the Muslim slaughter of cows for meat, particularly as part of religious festivals such as Bakr-Id\".\n\nAccording to Mark Doyle, the first cow protection societies on the Indian subcontinent were started by Kukas of Sikhism (also called Namdharis). The Sikh Kukas or Namdharis were agitating for cow protection after the British annexed Punjab. In 1871, states Peter van der Veer, Sikhs killed Muslim butchers of cows in Amritsar and Ludhiana, and viewed cow protection as a \"sign of the moral quality of the state\". According to Barbara Metcalf and Thomas Metcalf, Sikhs were agitating for the well-being of cows in the 1860s, and their ideas spread to Hindu reform movements. Cattle protection-related violence continued at numerous occasions, often over the Muslim festival of Bakri-Id, in the first half of the 20th century.\n\nCow slaughter in contemporary India has triggered riots and violent vigilante groups.\n\nAccording to PUDR, the VHP, a Hindu group, and the Gauraksha Samiti have defended violent vigilantism around cow protection as sentiments against the \"sin of cow-slaughter\" and not related to \"the social identity of the victims\". Various groups, such as the families of Dalits who were victims of a mob violence linked to cow-slaughter in 2002, did not question the legitimacy of cow protection.\n\nAccording to the Human Rights Watch, the post-2014 violence has included instances of assault, harassment, extortion, and it has targeted Muslims and lower-caste Hindus. According to a Reuters report, citing IndiaSpend analysis, a total of \"44 Indians – 39 of them Muslims – have been killed and 124 injured\", between 2010 and June 2018 in cow-related violence.\n\nThe \"Preservation, protection and improvement of stock and prevention of animal diseases, veterinary training and practice\" is Entry 15 of the State List of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution, meaning that State Legislatures have exclusive powers to legislate the prevention of slaughter and preservation of cattle.\n\nThe prohibition of cow slaughter is also one of the Directive Principles of State Policy contained in Article 48 of the Constitution. It reads, \"The State shall endeavour to organise agriculture and animal husbandry on modern and scientific lines and shall, in particular, take steps for preserving and improving the breeds, and prohibiting the slaughter of cows and calves and other milch and draught cattle.\"\n\nSeveral State Governments and Union Territories (UTs) have enacted cattle preservation laws in one form or the other. Arunachal Pradesh, Kerala, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Tripura and Lakshadweep have no legislation. All other states/UTs have enacted legislation to prevent the slaughter of cow and its progeny. Kerala is a major consumer of beef and has no regulation on the slaughter of cow and its progeny. As a result, cattle is regularly smuggled into Kerala from the neighbouring States of Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, for the purpose of slaughter. There have been several attacks on cow transporters, on the suspicion of carrying cows for slaughter. Between May 2015 and May 2017, at least ten Muslims were killed in these attacks.\n\nIn 1958, Muslims of Bihar petitioned the Supreme Court of India that the ban on cow slaughter violated their religious right. The Court unanimously rejected their claim.\n\nIn several cases, such as \"Mohd. Hanif Qureshi v. State of Bihar\" (AIR 1959 SCR 629), \"Hashumatullah v. State of Madhya Pradesh\", \"Abdul Hakim and others v. State of Bihar\" (AIR 1961 SC 448) and \"Mohd. Faruk v. State of Madhya Pradesh\", the Supreme Court has held that, \"A total ban [on cattle slaughter] was not permissible if, under economic conditions, keeping useless bull or bullock be a burden on the society and therefore not in the public interest.\" The clause \"under economic conditions, keeping useless (...)\" has been studied by the Animal Welfare Board of India which determined that the fuel made from cow dung for household cooking purposes in the Indian society suggests that the cattle is never useless while it produces dung.\n\nIn May 2016, Bombay High Court gave the judgement that consumption or possession of beef is legal under Article 21 of Constitution of India, but upheld the ban on cow slaughter in the state of Maharashtra.\n\nThe Supreme Court of India heard a case between 2004 and 2017. The case petitioned the Court to order a ban on the common illegal treatment of animals during transport and slaughter. In February 2017, the Court ordered a state governments to stop the illegal slaughterhouses and set up enforcement committees to monitor the treatment of animals used for meat and leather. The Court has also ruled, according to a Times of India report, that \"it was evident from the combined reading of Articles 48 and 51- A(g) of the [Indian] Constitution that citizens must show compassion to the animal kingdom. The animals have their own fundamental rights. Article 48 specifically lays down that the state shall endeavour to prohibit the slaughter of cows and calves, other milch and draught cattle\".\n\nNo state law explicitly bans the consumption of beef. There is a lack of uniformity among State laws governing cattle slaughter. The strictest laws are in Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Punjab, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, where the slaughter of cow and its progeny, including bulls and bullocks of all ages, is completely banned. Most States prohibit the slaughter of cows of all ages. However, Assam and West Bengal permit the slaughter of cows of over the ages of 10 and 14 years, respectively. Most States prohibit the slaughter of calves, whether male or female. With the exception of Bihar and Rajasthan, where age of a calf is given as below 3 years, the other States have not defined the age of a calf. According to the National Commission on Cattle, the definition of a calf being followed in Maharashtra, by some executive instructions, was \"below the age of 1 year\".\n\nIn Daman and Diu, Delhi, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Puducherry, Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand violation of State laws on cattle slaughter are both cognizable and non-bailable offences. Most of other States specify that offences would be cognizable only. The maximum term of imprisonment varies from 6 months to 14 years(life-term) and the fine from 1,000 to 5,00,000. Delhi and Madhya Pradesh have fixed a mandatory minimum term of imprisonment at 6 months.\n\nCows are routinely shipped to states with lower or no requirement for slaughter, even though it is illegal in most states to ship animals across state borders to be slaughtered. Many illegal slaughterhouses operate in large cities such as Chennai and Mumbai. As of 2004, there were 3,600 legal and 30,000 illegal slaughterhouses in India. Efforts to close them down have, so far, been largely unsuccessful. In 2013, Andhra Pradesh estimated that there were 3,100 illegal and 6 licensed slaughterhouses in the State.\n\nAfter India attained Independence, the members of the Constituent Assembly, a body consisting of indirectly elected representatives set up for the purpose of drafting a constitution for India, debated the question of making a provision for the protection and preservation of the cow in the Constitution of India. An amendment for including a provision in the Directive Principles of State Policy as Article 38A was introduced by Pandit Thakur Dass Bhargava. The amendment read, \"The State shall endeavour to organise agriculture and animal husbandry on modern and scientific lines and shall in particular take steps for preserving and improving the breeds of cattle and prohibit the slaughter of cow and other useful cattle, specially milch and draught cattle and their young stock\".\n\nAnother amendment motion was moved by Seth Govind Das, who sought to extend the scope of the provisions for prohibiting slaughter to cover cow and its progeny by adding the following words at the end of Bhargava's amendment, \"'The word \"cow' includes bulls, bullocks, young stock of genus cow\". Bhargava's amendment was passed by the Constituent Assembly, but Das' was rejected.\n\nPandit Thakur Dass Bhargava (East Punjab), Seth Govind Das (Central Provinces and Berar), Shibban Lal Saksena (United Provinces), Ram Sahai (United State of Gwalior-Indore-Malwa: Madhya Bharat), Raghu Vira (Central Provinces and Berar) and Raghunath Vinayak Dhulekar (United Provinces) strongly pleaded for the inclusion of a provision in the Constitution for prohibiting the slaughter of cows. Although some members were keen on including the provision in the chapter on Fundamental Rights but, later as a compromise and on the basis of an assurance given by Dr. B. R. Ambedkar, the amendment was moved for inclusion as a Directive Principle of State Policy.\n\nBhargava stated that \"While moving this amendment, I have no hesitation in stating that for people like me and those that do not agree with the point of view of Dr. Ambedkar and others, this entails, in a way, a sort of sacrifice. Seth Govind Das had sent one such amendment to be included in the Fundamental Rights and other members also had sent similar amendments. To my mind, it would have been much better if this could have been incorporated in the Fundamental Rights, but some of my Assembly friends differed and it is the desire of Dr. Ambedkar that this matter, instead of being included in Fundamental Rights should be incorporated in the Directive Principles. As a matter of fact, it is the agreed opinion of the Assembly that this problem should be solved in such a manner that the objective is gained without using any sort of coercion. I have purposely adopted this course, as to my mind, the amendment fulfills our object and is midway between the Directive Principles and the Fundamental Rights.\" Bhargava also observed that \"I do not want that, due to its inclusion in the Fundamental Rights, non-Hindus should complain that they have been forced to accept a certain thing against their will.\" The end result of the debate in the Constituent Assembly was that the Bhargava's amendment was carried and the Article in its present form exists as Article 48 of the Constitution, as one of the Directive Principles of State Policy.\n\nA number of Private Member’s Bills and Resolutions regarding the prevention of cow slaughter have been introduced in both Houses of Parliament, from time to time. However, none have been successful in obtaining a complete nationwide ban on cow slaughter. Attempts to address the issue through a central legislation or otherwise are described below.\n\nVinoba Bhave went on an indefinite fast from 22 April 1979 demanding that the Governments of West Bengal and Kerala agree to enact legislation banning cow slaughter. On 12 April 1979, a Private Members Resolution was passed in the Lok Sabha, by 42 votes to 8, with 12 absentees. It read, \"This House directs the Government to ensure total ban on the slaughter of cows of all ages and calves in consonance with the Directive Principles laid down in Article 48 of the Constitution as interpreted by the Supreme Court, as well as necessitated by strong economic considerations based on the recommendations of the Cattle Preservation and Development Committee and the reported fast by Acharya Vinoba Bhave from 21st April, 1979\".\n\nThen Prime Minister Morarji Desai later announced in Parliament that the government would initiate action for amending the Constitution with a view to conferring legislative competence on the Union Parliament for legislating on the subject of cow protection. Accordingly, a Constitution Amendment Bill seeking to bring the subject of prevention of cow slaughter on to the Concurrent List was introduced in the Lok Sabha on 18 May 1979. The Bill, however, lapsed on account of dissolution of the Sixth Lok Sabha. Bhave reiterated his demand for a total ban on cow slaughter in July 1980, while addressing the All India Goseva Sammelan. He also requested that cows should not be taken from one State to another.\n\nIn 1981, the question of amending the Constitution by introducing a Bill was again examined by the Government, but, in view of the sensitive nature of the issue and owing to political compulsions a \"wait and watch\" policy was adopted. A number of complaints were received from time to time that despite the ban on the slaughter of cow and its progeny, healthy bullocks were being slaughtered under one pretext or the other and calves were being maimed, so that they could be declared useless and ultimately slaughtered.\n\nPrime Minister Indira Gandhi, in her letter dated 24 February 1982 wrote to the Chief Ministers of 14 States viz. Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Orissa, Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, and Jammu and Kashmir, in which she desired that the ban be enforced in letter and spirit, that the ban on cow slaughter is not allowed to be circumvented by devious methods, and that Committees to inspect cattle before they are admitted to slaughter houses be adopted.\n\nRecognizing that the problem basically arose on account of inaction or obstruction on the part of a few States and large scale smuggling of cows and calves from a prohibition State to a non-prohibition State like Kerala was taking place, a suggestion was made that this problem be brought to the notice of the Sarkaria Commission, which was making recommendations regarding Centre-State relations, but this idea was dropped as the Commission was then in the final stages of report-writing.\n\n\"The Andhra Pradesh Prohibition of Cow Slaughter and Animal Preservation Act, 1977\" governs the slaughter of cattle (cows and buffaloes) in the state. In the case of cows, the law makes a distinction between males and females. The slaughter of female cows and of heifers is totally forbidden. The slaughter of bulls and bullocks is permitted upon obtaining a \"fit-for-slaughter\" certificate, to be issued only if the animal is \"not economical or is not likely to become economical for the purpose of breeding or draught/agricultural operations.\" The certificate can be issued by any veterinary doctor and is a source of much corruption and misuse. The law also prohibits the slaughter of calves, whether male or female. The age limit of \"calf\" is not defined.\n\nIn the case of buffaloes, the law firstly forbits in absolute terms the slaughter of calves, whether male or female. Again, the age limit of \"calf\" is not defined and therefore there is much misuse, resulting in the slaughter of many young male animals who are only a few months old. Secondly, the law forbids the slaughter of adult buffaloes unless a \"fit-for-slaughter\" certificate is issued by a veterinarian. The ceretificate can be issued if the animal is deemed \"uneconomical for purposes of milking, breeding or draught/agricultural operations.\" Thus, the law permits the slaughter of all adult male buffaloes and of all old and \"spent\" female buffaloes whose milk yield is not economical. For this reason, the slaughter of buffaloes, both male and female, is rampant in Andhra Pradesh.\n\nAnyone violating the law can be punished with imprisonment up to maximum of 6 months or fine of up to 1,000 or both. The crime is treated as a cognizable offence.\n\nNo ban on cattle slaughter.\n\n\"The Assam Cattle Preservation Act, 1950\" governs the slaughter of cattle in the state. Slaughter of all cattle, including bulls, bullocks, cows, calves, male and female buffaloes and buffalo calves is prohibited. Slaughter of all is cattle is allowed on obtaining a \"fit-for-slaughter\" certificate, to be given if cattle is over 15 years of age or has become permanently incapacitated for work or breeding due to injury, deformity or any incurable disease.\n\nAnyone violating the law can be punished with imprisonment up to maximum of 6 months or fine of up to 1,000 or both. The crime is treated as a cognizable offence.\n\n\"The Bihar Preservation and Improvement of Animals Act, 1955\" governs the slaughter of cattle in the state. Slaughter of cow and calf is totally prohibited. Slaughter of bulls or bullocks of over 25 years of age or permanently incapacitated for work or breeding due to injury, deformity or any incurable disease is permitted. The law also bans the export of cows, calves, bulls and bullocks from Bihar, for any purpose. The law defines a bull as \"an uncastrated male of above 3 years\", a bullock as \"castrated male of above 3 years\", a calf as \"male or female below 3 years\" and a cow as \"female above 3 years\".\n\nAnyone violating the law can be punished with imprisonment up to maximum of 6 months or fine of up to 1,000 or both. The crime is treated as a cognizable offence.\n\n\"The Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Cattle Preservation Act, 1959\" governs the slaughter of cattle in the state. Slaughter of cows, calves of cows, bulls, bullocks and buffalo calves is prohibited. However, bulls and bullocks are being slaughtered in the light of a Supreme Court judgement, provided the cattle is over 20 years or has become unfit for work or breeding. Transport or export of cattle for slaughter not permitted. Export for any purpose to another State where cow slaughter is not banned by law is not permitted. The sale, purchase and/or disposal of cow and its progeny and possession of flesh of cattle is prohibited.\n\nAnyone violating the law can be punished with imprisonment up to a maximum of 3 years and fine of 5,000 or both. Normally imprisonment shall not be less than 6 months and fine not less than 1,000. The law places the burden of proof on the accused. The crime is treated as a cognizable offence.\n\n\"The Goa, Daman & Diu Prevention of Cow Slaughter Act, 1978\" governs the slaughter of cattle in Daman and Diu. There is a total ban on slaughter of cow (includes cow, heifer or calf), except when the cow is suffering pain or contagious disease or for medical research. The law does not define the age of a \"calf\". There is also a total prohibition on the sale of beef or beef products in any form in the union territory.\n\nAnyone violating the law can be punished with imprisonment up to 2 years or fine up to 1,000 or both. The crime is treated as a cognizable and non-bailable offence.\n\n\"The Delhi Agricultural Cattle Preservation Act, 1994\" governs the slaughter of cattle in the state. Slaughter of all agricultural cattle is totally prohibited. The law defines \"agricultural cattle\" as cows of all ages, calves of cows of all ages, and bulls and bullocks. The slaughter of buffaloes is legal. The possession of the flesh of agricultural cattle slaughtered outside Delhi is also prohibited. The transport or export of cattle for slaughter is also prohibited. Export for other purposes is permitted on declaration that cattle will not be slaughtered. However, export to a State where slaughter is not banned by law is not permitted.\n\nAnyone violating the law can be punished with imprisonment up to 5 years and fine up to 10,000, provided that minimum imprisonment should not be for less than 6 months and fine not less than 1,000. The law places the burden of proof on the accused. The crime is treated as a cognizable and non-bailable offence.\n\n\"The Goa, Daman & Diu Prevention of Cow Slaughter Act, 1978\" and \"The Goa Animal Preservation Act, 1995\" govern the slaughter of cattle in the state. Under the 1978 Act, which also applies to Daman and Diu, there is a total ban on slaughter of cow (includes cow, heifer or calf), except when the cow is suffering pain or contagious disease or for medical research. The law does not define the age of a \"calf\". Anyone violating the law can be punished with imprisonment up to 2 years or fine up to 1,000 or both. The crime is treated as a cognizable and non-bailable offence.This act though, has not been necessarily implemented.\n\n\"The Goa Animal Preservation Act, 1995\" applies to bulls, bullocks, male calves and buffaloes of all ages. All the animals can be slaughtered on obtaining a \"fit-for-slaughter\" certificate which is not given if the animal is likely to become economical for draught, breeding or milk (in the case of she-buffaloes) purposes. The sale of beef obtained in contravention of the above provisions is prohibited. However, sale of beef imported from other States is legal. Anyone violating the law can be punished with imprisonment up to maximum of 6 months or fine of up to 1,000 or both. The crime is treated as a cognizable offence.\n\nThe \"Gujarat Animal Preservation Act (GAPA) 1954\" governs the slaughter of cattle in the state. Slaughter of cows, calves of cows, bulls and bullocks is totally prohibited. Slaughter of buffaloes is permitted on certain conditions. Anyone violating the law could be punished with imprisonment up to maximum of 6 months or fine of up to 1,000 or both. The crime is treated as a cognizable offence.\n\nThe \"Gujarat Animal Preservation (Amendment) Bill 2011\" was passed unopposed in the Legislative Assembly, with support from the main opposition party, on 27 September 2011. The amendment, which came into effect in October 2011, criminalized transporting the animal for the purpose of slaughter and included a provision to confiscate the vehicle used for carrying cow meat. It also increased the maximum jail term for slaughtering cattle to 7 years and maximum fine to 50,000.\n\nIn 2017, the Gujarat Assembly amended the bill further extending the punishment and fine. The punishment was increased to a minimum of 10 years and a maximum of 'life term of a 14 years', and the fine was enhanced to the range of Rs 1 lakh - Rs 5 lakh. The new law also made offences under the amended Act non-bailable.\n\n\"Haryana Gauvansh Sanrakshan and Gausamvardhan Act, 2015\" applies to Haryana. Earlier, \"The Punjab Prohibition of Cow Slaughter Act, 1955\" was the law governing the slaughter of cattle in Haryana has the same provisions as that in Punjab and Himachal Pradesh. However, Haryana has stricter penalties for violating the law than the other 2 states, even prior to 2015 Act.\n\nSlaughter of cow (includes bull, bullock, ox, heifer or calf), and its progeny, is \"totally prohibited\". The export of cattle for slaughter and the sale of beef are both prohibited. This \"does not include flesh of cow contained in sealed containers and imported\", meaning that restaurants in the states can serve beef, if they can prove its meat has been imported into the state. The law also excuses the killing of cows \"by accident or in self defence\". Consumption of beef is not penalized. Anyone violating the law can be punished with rigorous imprisonment up to 10 years or fine up to 1,00,000 or both. The law places the burden of proof on the accused. The crime is treated as a cognizable and non-bailable offence.\n\n\"The Punjab Prohibition of Cow Slaughter Act, 1955\" applies to Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Punjab. Therefore, the law governing the slaughter of cattle in Himachal Pradesh is the same as that in Punjab and Haryana. However, Himachal and Punjab have lighter penalties for violating the law than Haryana.\n\nSlaughter of cow (includes bull, bullock, ox, heifer or calf), and its progeny, is totally prohibited. The export of cattle for slaughter and the sale of beef are both prohibited. Anyone violating the law can be punished with imprisonment up to a maximum of 2 years or fine up to 1,000 or both. The law places the burden of proof on the accused. The crime is treated as a cognizable and non-bailable offence.\n\n\"The Ranbir Penal Code, 1932\" governs the slaughter of cattle in Jammu and Kashmir. Voluntary slaughter of any bovine animal such as ox, bull, cow or calf shall be punished with imprisonment of either description which may extend to 10 years and shall also be liable to fine. The fine may extend to 5 times the price of the animals slaughtered as determined by the court. Possession of the flesh of slaughtered animals is also an offence punishable with imprisonment up to 1 year and fine up to 500.\n\n\"The Bihar Preservation and Improvement of Animals Act, 1955\" governs the slaughter of cattle in the state. Slaughter of cow and calf is totally prohibited. Slaughter of bulls or bullocks of over 15 years of age or permanently incapacitated for work or breeding due to injury, deformity or any incurable disease is permitted. The law also bans the export of cows, calves, bulls and bullocks from Jharkhand for any purpose. The law defines a bull as \"an uncastrated male of above 3 years\", a bullock as \"castrated male of above 3 years\", a calf as \"male or female below 3 years\" and a cow as \"female above 3 years\".\n\nAnyone violating the law can be punished with imprisonment up to maximum of 6 months or fine of up to 1,000 or both. The crime is treated as a cognizable offence.\n\n\"The Karnataka Prevention of Cow Slaughter and Cattle Preservation Act, 1964\" governs the slaughter of cattle in the state. Slaughter of cow, calf of a cow (male or female) or calf of a she-buffalo totally prohibited. Slaughter of bulls, bullocks and adult buffaloes is permitted on obtaining a \"fit-for-slaughter\" certificate provided cattle is over 12 years of age or is permanently incapacitated for breeding, draught or milk due to injury, deformity or any other cause. Transport for slaughter to a place outside the State not permitted. Sale, purchase or disposal of a cow or a calf, for slaughter, is not permitted.\n\nAnyone violating the law can be punished with imprisonment up to maximum of 6 months or fine of up to 1,000 or both. The crime is treated as a cognizable offence.\n\nKerala permits the slaughter of every type of cattle. Slaughtering of animals is formally regulated by the government in order to maintain public health and sanitation. Panchayat laws permit slaughter only in approved slaughter houses. Unlike most other Indian states, beef is eaten by a large section of people in Kerala(80% of the population of Kerala regularly eat beef) and is regarded as a staple food, often part of a Kerala porotta meal. Beef accounts for 40% of all meat consumed in Kerala. Also there is enough anecdotal evidence to suggest that more Hindus could be eating beef regularly than Christians and Muslims put together. Beef is sold at meat shops while cattle is traded at weekly markets across the state. Further, it has been ruled an obligation of panchayat to provide for meat stalls, including those that may sell beef.\n\n\"The Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Cattle Preservation Act, 1959\" governs the slaughter of cattle in the state. Slaughter of cows, calves of cows, bulls, bullocks and buffalo calves is prohibited. However, bulls and bullocks are being slaughtered in the light of a Supreme Court judgement, provided the cattle is over 20 years or has become unfit for work or breeding. Transport or export of cattle for slaughter not permitted. Export for any purpose to another State where cow slaughter is not banned by law is not permitted. The sale, purchase and/or disposal of cow and its progeny and possession of flesh of cattle is prohibited.\n\nAnyone violating the law can be punished with imprisonment up to a maximum of 3 years and fine of 5,000 or both. Normally imprisonment shall not be less than 6 months and fine not less than 1,000. The law places the burden of proof on the accused. The crime is treated as a cognizable offence.\n\n\"The Maharashtra Animal Preservation Act, 1976\" governs the slaughter of cattle in the state. Slaughter of cows (includes a heifer or male or female calf of a cow) is totally prohibited. Slaughter of bulls, bullocks and buffaloes is allowed on obtaining a \"fit-for-slaughter certificate\", if it is not likely to become economical for draught, breeding or milk (in the case of she-buffaloes) purposes.\n\nAnyone violating the law can be punished with imprisonment up to an maximum of 6 months and fine of up to 1,000. The law places the burden of proof on the accused. The crime is treated as a cognizable offence.\nMaharashtra cow slaughter ban was later extended to ban the sale and export of beef, with a punishment of 5 years jail, and/or a 10,000 fine for possession or sale. This law came into effect from 2 March 2015.\n\nIn Manipur, cattle slaughter is restricted under a proclamation by the Maharaja in the Durbar Resolution of 1939. The proclamation states, \"According to Hindu religion the killing of cow is a sinful act. It is also against Manipur Custom. I cannot allowed such things to be committed in my State. So if any one is seen killing a cow in the State he should be prosecuted.\" However, beef is largely consumed in the hill districts with large Christian populations and sold openly in cities like Churachandpur.\n\nNo restrictions on cattle slaughter; beef is consumed widely.\n\nNo ban on cattle slaughter.\n\nNo restrictions on cattle slaughter.\n\n\"The Orissa Prevention of Cow Slaughter Act, 1960\" governs the slaughter of cattle in the state. Slaughter of cows (includes heifer or calf) is totally prohibited. Slaughter of bulls and bullocks is permitted, on obtaining a \"fit-for-slaughter\" certificate, provided that the cattle is over 14 years of age or has become permanently unfit for breeding or draught.\n\nAnyone violating the law can be punished with imprisonment up to a maximum of 2 years or fine up to 1,000 or both. The crime is treated as a cognizable offence.\n\n\"The Pondicherry Prevention of Cow Slaughter Act, 1968\" governs the slaughter of cattle in Puducherry. Slaughter of cows (includes heifer or calf) is totally prohibited. Slaughter of bulls and bullocks is permitted, on obtaining a \"fit-for-slaughter\" certificate, provided that the cattle is over age of 15 years or has become permanently unfit for breeding or draught. The sale and/or transport of beef is prohibited.\n\nAnyone violating the law can be punished with imprisonment up to a maximum of 2 years or fine up to 1,000 or both. The crime is treated as a cognizable and non-bailable offence.\n\n\"The Punjab Prohibition of Cow Slaughter Act, 1955\" applies to Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Punjab. Therefore, the law governing the slaughter of cattle in Punjab has the same provisions as that in Himachal Pradesh. However, Punjab and Himachal have lighter penalties for violating the law than Haryana.\n\nSlaughter of cow (includes bull, bullock, ox, heifer or calf), and its progeny, is totally illegal. The export of cattle for slaughter and the sale of beef are both illegal. This \"does not include flesh of cow contained in sealed containers and imported\", meaning that restaurants in the states can serve beef, if they can prove its meat has been imported into the state. The law also excuses the killing of cows \"by accident or in self defence\". Consumption is not penalized. Anyone violating the law can be punished with imprisonment up to a maximum of 2 years or fine up to 1,000 or both. The law places the burden of proof on the accused. The crime is treated as a cognizable and non-bailable offence.\n\n\"The Rajasthan Bovine Animal (Prohibition of Slaughter and Regulation of Temporary Migration or Export) Act, 1995\" governs the slaughter of cattle in the state. Slaughter of all bovine animals (includes cow, calf, heifer, bull or bullocks) is prohibited. Possession, sale and/or transport of beef and beef products is prohibited. The export of bovine animals for slaughter is prohibited. The law requires custody of seized animals to be given to any recognized voluntary animal welfare agency failing which to any Goshala, Gosadan or a suitable person who volunteers to maintain the animal. Government of Rajasthan has also introduced a Bill (Bill No. 16/2015) to ban migration out of State and slaughter of Camels in the State. Refer bill at http://rajassembly.nic.in/BillsPdf/Bill16-2015.pdf\n\nAnyone violating the law can be punished with rigorous imprisonment of not less than 1 year and up to a maximum of 2 years and fine up to 10,000. The law places the burden of proof on the accused.\n\nUnder the Sikkim Prevention of Cow Slaughter Bill 2017, cow slaughter is a non-bailable offense.\n\n\"The Tamil Nadu Animal Preservation Act, 1958\" governs the slaughter of cattle in the state. All animals could be slaughtered on obtaining \"fit-for-slaughter\" certificate. The law defined \"animals\" as bulls, bullocks, cows, calves; and buffaloes of all ages. The certificate was issued if an animal was over 10 years of age and was unfit for work and breeding or had become permanently incapacitated for work and breeding due to injury deformity or any incurable disease. Anyone violating the Act can be punished with imprisonment of up to 3 years or fine up to 1,000 or both.\n\n\"The Andhra Pradesh Prohibition of Cow Slaughter and Animal Preservation Act, 1977\" governs the slaughter of cattle in Telangana. Slaughter of cows (includes heifer, or a calf, whether male or female of a cow) is prohibited. The law does not define the age of a \"calf\". Slaughter of bulls and bullocks is allowed on obtaining a \"fit-for-slaughter\" certificate, to be given only if the animal is not economical or is not likely to become economical for the purpose of breeding or draught/agricultural operations.\n\nAnyone violating the law can be punished with imprisonment up to maximum of 6 months or fine of up to 1,000 or both. The crime is treated as a cognizable offence.\n\nThere exists, at the moment, no ban on cattle slaughter. The consumption of beef, however, has been historically rather limited due to religious and cultural reasons given that the erstwhile State of Tripura used to be under the rule of the Hindu Manikya Kings during the British Raj and emerged as an overwhelmingly Hindu-majority state after the partition of East Pakistan (now Bangladesh) and India.\n\n\"The Uttar Pradesh Prevention of Cow Slaughter Act, 1955\" governs the slaughter of cattle in the state. Slaughter of cow (includes a heifer and calf) is totally prohibited. Transport of cow outside the State for slaughter is not permitted. The sale of beef is prohibited. The law defines \"beef\" as the flesh of cow and of such bull or bullock whose slaughter is prohibited under the Act, but does not include such flesh contained in sealed containers and imported into Uttar Pradesh. Anyone violating the Act can be punished with rigorous imprisonment of up to 2 years or fine up to 1,000 or both. The crime is treated as a cognizable and non-bailable offence.\n\nThe Act permitted the slaughter of bull or bullock on obtaining a \"fit-for-slaughter\" certificate provided it was over the age of 15 years or had become permanently unfit for breeding, draught and any agricultural operations. However, the Government of Uttar Pradesh issued an ordinance in 2001, prohibiting the slaughter of cow and its progeny. On 6 June 2017, Uttar Pradesh's Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath directed the State police to take action against cow slaughter and cattle smuggling under the National Security Act and the Gangster Act.\n\n\"The Uttar Pradesh Prevention of Cow Slaughter Act, 1955\" governs the slaughter of cattle in the state. Slaughter of cow (includes a heifer and calf) is totally prohibited. Transport of cow outside the State for slaughter is not permitted. The sale of beef is prohibited. The law defines \"beef\" as the flesh of cow and of such bull or bullock whose slaughter is prohibited under the Act, but does not include such flesh contained in sealed containers and imported into Uttarakhand. Anyone violating the Act can be punished with rigorous imprisonment of up to 2 years or fine up to 1,000 or both. The crime is treated as a cognizable and non-bailable offence.\n\n\"The West Bengal Animal Slaughter Act, 1950\" governs the slaughter of cattle in the state. Slaughter of animals and cows above the age of 14 years is permitted on obtaining a \"fit-for-slaughter\" certificate. The law defines \"animals\" as bulls, bullocks, cows, calves and buffaloes of all types/ages. The certificate is only issued if the animal is over 14 years of age and unfit for work or breeding or has become permanently incapacitated for work and breeding due to age, injury, deformity, or any incurable disease. Anyone violating the law can be punished with rigorous imprisonment of up to a maximum of 6 months or fine up to 1,000 or both. The crime is treated as a cognizable offence.\n\nThere is no ban on the consumption of beef or slaughter if carried out in government or municipal slaughterhouses after a certificate from a veterinarian. The \"Animal Slaughter Control Act\" exempts slaughter for religious purposes, however the Supreme Court has stated that such exclusions are illegal.\n\nRelated Indian topics:\n\nRelated International topics:\n\n"}
{"id": "22359808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22359808", "title": "Cerro Ñielol Natural Monument", "text": "Cerro Ñielol Natural Monument\n\nCerro Ñielol Natural Monument is a hill belonging to the Intermediate Depression and is located in the urban area of the city of Temuco, Province of Cautín, Araucanía Region, Chile.\n\nWith a height of 115 and 335 m, the latter is the highest point of the city. On 89 acres a large variety of flora and fauna of the Valdivian temperate forest ecoregion can be seen, as well as important historical and cultural landmarks of Temuco. Its main entrance is along Avenida Arturo Prat (one of the main Temuco streets) and is seven blocks away from the main square Plaza de Armas. Because of its natural landscape and several viewpoints, the monument is one of the main tourist areas of the city. Cultural events are usually held at the top of the monument.\n\nThe Southern Andean Volcano Observatory is located at the hill, due to its good outlook on several volcanoes including Llaima volcano.\n\nThe hill was originally named \"National Tourism Park Cerro Ñielol\". The Society of the Friends of the tree (founded by Luis Picasso Vallebuona) purchased the lands of the hill to reforest and protect it. Later it was reclassified as the National Park Natural Monument by Supreme Decree No. 617 of the Ministry of National Assets on December 3, 1987. Nowadays it is a protected area administrated by the Chilean state. It can be visited by car or foot all year round.\n"}
{"id": "3495093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3495093", "title": "Charles A. Lindbergh State Park", "text": "Charles A. Lindbergh State Park\n\nCharles A. Lindbergh State Park is a 569-acre (2.3 km²) Minnesota state park on the outskirts of Little Falls. The park was once the farm of Congressman Charles August Lindbergh and his son Charles Lindbergh, the famous aviator. Their restored 1906 house and two other farm buildings are within the park boundaries. The house, a National Historic Landmark, and an adjacent museum are operated by the Minnesota Historical Society, known as the Charles Lindbergh House and Museum. Three buildings and three structures built by the Works Progress Administration in the 1930s were named to the National Register of Historic Places. These buildings include a picnic shelter and a water tower, built in the Rustic Style from local stone and logs, and have remained relatively unchanged since construction. Although the property includes shoreline on the Mississippi River, the Lindbergh family requested that the park not include intensive use areas for swimming or camping, so development was kept to a minimum.\n\nCharles August Lindbergh, known as C.A., was a prominent lawyer and real estate trader in Little Falls. In March 1901 he married Evangeline Lodge Land, the college-educated descendant of two notable Detroit medical families, who had come to Little Falls the previous autumn as a teacher. She, C.A., and his two daughters from a previous marriage moved to a property, which C.A. had purchased for a dairy farm three years earlier. They had a three-story house built on the bluff overlooking the Mississippi River. A tenant's house was built across the road for the farm workers. Charles Augustus Lindbergh was born in 1902, and would be the couple's only child. A barn was built later that year, and the farm was populated with cattle, goats, hogs, sheep, chickens, and pigeons as well as cats and dogs.\n\nOn August 5, 1905 a fire started for unknown reasons on the third floor. The house burned down to its stone foundation, but the Lindberghs and their servants escaped injury and managed to save many of the household items. The Lindberghs had a new house built on the foundation of the first. However it was much smaller, due to C.A.'s overextended finances and a growing strain in the marriage. The new house fit awkwardly onto the footprint of the old, necessitating a short hallway with seven doors leading off. The basement, intended as a library for C.A., and the upper floor was never finished. Instead, C.A. entered politics and in 1907 began serving the first of five consecutive terms in the U.S. House of Representatives. For the next decade the younger Charles spent much of each year in Detroit and Washington, D.C., leaving only two or three months at the house in Little Falls. However, Charles would credit his time spent on the farm and playing along the Mississippi for his strength and self-reliance. The unfinished upper floor became Charles' exclusive play area, and upon hearing an unusually loud engine one day in 1911 he climbed out onto the roof and saw his first airplane.\n\nEvangeline's relationship with C.A. and his daughters worsened, and in 1917 she and Charles moved back into the house year-round. Charles continued sleeping in his bedroom, which was really a screened-in porch, on all but the very coldest winter nights. He began overseeing the farm and was an early adopter of mechanization technology. Charles left in 1920 to attend college and returned only once, in 1923, arriving in his Curtiss JN-4 plane and landing in a field on the west side of the property. In the next two years the barn burned down and C.A. died, and the farm was largely neglected. After Charles Lindbergh became famous in 1927, souvenir seekers frequently broke into the empty house and caused extensive damage.\n\nEncouraged by locals hoping to see the house protected, the Lindbergh family donated the farm to the state of Minnesota in 1931 as a park in memory of C.A. The family worked with the Minnesota Historical Society to restore the home, and donated many original furnishings. The Works Progress Administration developed the park for recreation. In 1969 the house and its grounds were transferred to the Minnesota Historical Society. In what was to be his final public address, Charles spoke from the porch of his boyhood home at the 1973 grand opening of an adjacent interpretive center. He died the following year. The visitor center initially focused on the three generations of Lindberghs in America, at the request of the spotlight-leery Charles. However, a 2002 remodeling doubled the exhibit space and added more about the aviator himself.\n\nIn 1989 the WPA developments were listed on the National Register of Historic Places as a historic district. The district contains six contributing properties—two buildings (a picnic shelter and latrine), two structures (the water tower and a retaining wall along Pike Creek), and two objects (drinking fountains near the picnic shelter). All were built between 1938 and 1939. They are considered historically significant as examples of New Deal federal work relief and Minnesota's state park development, and architecturally significant for their National Park Service rustic design. The same picnic shelter design was used in Lake Bemidji State Park.\n\nThe land is glacial till deposited between 100,000 and 10,000 years ago. Slate boulders carried in by glaciers from farther north are visible in the bed of Pike Creek. The vegetation remains similar to its pre-settlement composition of pine forest with oak and prairie openings. Damming has raised the water level of the Mississippi substantially from the days when Charles Lindbergh swam in it.\n\nThe park has a campground with 38 sites, 15 of those with electrical hookups. There is also a group campsite that accommodates up to 30 people, one walk-in campsite, and a canoe-in site along the Mississippi River.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19539482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19539482", "title": "Chemical equator", "text": "Chemical equator\n\nThe chemical equator concept was coined in 2008 when researchers from University of York discovered a distinct divide between the polluted air over Indonesia from the largely uncontaminated atmosphere over Australia.\n\nThe divide of the atmosphere of the northern hemisphere from the atmosphere of the southern hemisphere is different from that of the Intertropical Convergence Zone.\n\n"}
{"id": "44070061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44070061", "title": "Citizenfour", "text": "Citizenfour\n\nCitizenfour is a 2014 documentary film directed by Laura Poitras, concerning Edward Snowden and the NSA spying scandal. The film had its US premiere on October 10, 2014, at the New York Film Festival and its UK premiere on October 17, 2014, at the BFI London Film Festival. The film features Snowden and Glenn Greenwald, and was co-produced by Poitras, Mathilde Bonnefoy, and Dirk Wilutzky, with Steven Soderbergh and others serving as executive producers. \"Citizenfour\" received critical acclaim upon release, and was the recipient of numerous accolades, including the Academy Award for Best Documentary Feature at the 2015 Oscars.\n\nIn January 2013, Laura Poitras, an American documentary film director/producer who had been working for several years on a film about monitoring programs in the United States that were the result of the September 11 attacks, receives an encrypted e-mail from a stranger who calls himself, \"Citizenfour.\" In it, he offers her inside information about illegal wiretapping practices of the US National Security Agency (NSA) and other intelligence agencies. In June 2013, accompanied by investigative journalist Glenn Greenwald and \"The Guardian\" intelligence reporter Ewen MacAskill, she travels to Hong Kong with her camera for the first meeting with the stranger in a hotel, who reveals himself as Edward Snowden. Scenes of their meeting take place in Snowden's hotel room, where he maintains his privacy. Shots of Snowden in his bed, in front of his mirror and of the hotel from a distance form the character of Snowden as a trapped political agent.\n\nAfter four days of interviews, on June 9, Snowden's identity is made public at his request. As media outlets begin to discover his location at The Mira Hong Kong, Snowden relocates to Poitras' room in an attempt to elude phone calls made to his room. Facing potential extradition and prosecution in the United States, Snowden schedules a meeting with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and applies for refugee status. After Poitras believes she is being followed, she leaves Hong Kong for Berlin.\n\nOn June 21, the US government requests the Hong Kong government extradite Snowden. Snowden manages to depart from Hong Kong, but his US passport is cancelled before he can connect to Havana, stranding him in the Sheremetyevo International Airport in Moscow. On August 1, 2013, the Russian government grants Snowden temporary asylum for a period of one year. Meanwhile, Greenwald returns to his home in Rio de Janeiro and speaks publicly about United States' utilization of NSA programs for foreign surveillance. Greenwald and Poitras maintain a correspondence wherein they both express reluctance to return to the United States.\n\nThroughout, the film offers smaller vignettes that precede and follow Snowden's Hong Kong interviews, including William Binney speaking about NSA programs, and eventually testifying before the German Parliament regarding NSA spying in Germany.\n\nThe film closes with Greenwald, Snowden and Poitras meeting once again, this time in Russia. Greenwald and Snowden discuss new emerging details on US intelligence programs, careful to only write down and not speak critical pieces of information. Greenwald tears these documents creating a pile of scraps, before slowly removing them from the table.\n\n\nBorn on June 21, 1983 in Elizabeth City, North Carolina, Edward Snowden first became involved with the United States government upon his enrollment in the Army Reserves in the spring of 2004. Snowden claims to have left the program after a few months because he broke his legs in a training accident while a US House of Representatives report claims he had shin splints. He then began working for the CIA in 2006 and was stationed with diplomatic cover by agency in Geneva, Switzerland in 2007. After nearly three years with the agency, Snowden resigned his position in February 2009 in order to begin working for a contractor for the NSA. It was at this point in his career that Snowden could sense that his views were changing; \"I watched as Obama advanced the very policies that I thought would be reigned in ... [The NSA] are intent on making every conversation and every form of behaviour in the world known to them\". In 2012, Snowden was reassigned from his base in Japan to a base in Honolulu, Hawaii, working for a variety of different contractors before serving as a consultant to Booz Allen Hamilton. In his own words, the longer he continued to work for the NSA, the more he \"worked in secret to resist\" his own feelings regarding the various programs in place at the agency. He had served at the Hawaiian base for approximately 15 months prior to leaving the United States and leaking thousands of classified documents. \n\nBy 2012, Poitras had begun work on the third film in her 9/11 trilogy, which she intended to focus broadly on the topic of domestic surveillance for which she interviewed Assange, Greenwald, Binney, and Appelbaum. She was first contacted by Snowden in January 2013 after he was unable to establish encrypted communications with Greenwald. She flew to Hong Kong in late May 2013, where over the course of eight days she filmed Snowden in his hotel room at the Mira Hotel in Hong Kong. Later, she traveled to Moscow where she filmed a second interview with Snowden conducted by Greenwald.\n\nProduction company Praxis Films was involved in the production of the documentary. The film was distributed by RADIUS TWC in the US, BRITDOC Foundation and Artificial Eye in the UK and Piffl Media in Germany. The broadcast rights for television were obtained by Channel 4 (United Kingdom), HBO Documentary Films (USA) and Norddeutscher Rundfunk (Germany).\n\nThe international film premiere took place on October 10, 2014, in the United States at the New York Film Festival. In Europe, the documentary was shown for the first time on October 17 at the BFI London Film Festival. The first showing in Germany was on October 27 as part of the Leipzig Film Festival. The director Laura Poitras was present in Hamburg Abaton cinema for a preview on November 4–5 at the official Germany Premiere at Kino International. In German cinemas, the film has been running since November 6. Its widest release , was 105 theaters, in the weekend of December 12–18, 2014.\n\nIt premiered on Home Box Office on February 23, 2015, the day after the 87th Academy Awards and was subsequently released for streaming on HBO Go. Channel 4 broadcast it in the United Kingdom on February 25, 2015 and has released it for view-on-demand through March 4, 2015.\n\n\"Citizenfour\" received widespread critical acclaim. It has a 96% approval rating on Rotten Tomatoes, based on 137 critics, with an average score of 8.3/10 and the site consensus: \"Part real-life thriller, part sobering examination of 21st century civil liberties, \"Citizenfour\" transcends ideology to offer riveting, must-see cinema.\" Metacritic gave the film a score of 88 out of 100 based on 38 reviews, indicating \"universal acclaim\".\n\nRonnie Scheib of \"Variety\" wrote \"No amount of familiarity with whistleblower Edward Snowden and his shocking revelations of the U.S. government's wholesale spying on its own citizens can prepare one for the impact of Laura Poitras's extraordinary documentary \"Citizenfour\"... far from reconstructing or analyzing a fait accompli, the film tersely records the deed in real time, as Poitras and fellow journalist Glenn Greenwald meet Snowden over an eight-day period in a Hong Kong hotel room to plot how and when they will unleash the bombshell that shook the world. Adapting the cold language of data encryption to recount a dramatic saga of abuse of power and justified paranoia, Poitras brilliantly demonstrates that information is a weapon that cuts both ways.\"\n\nSpencer Ackerman writes in \"The Guardian\": \"\"Citizenfour\" must have been a maddening documentary to film. Its subject is pervasive global surveillance, an enveloping digital act that spreads without visibility, so its scenes unfold in courtrooms, hearing chambers and hotels. Yet the virtuosity of Laura Poitras, its director and architect, makes its 114 minutes crackle with the nervous energy of revelation.\"\n\n\"Time\" magazine rated the film #3 out of its top 10 movies of 2014 and called the film \"This Halloween's Scariest Chiller\". \"Vanity Fair\" rated it #4 out of its top 10 and \"Grantland\" rated it #3 of its top 10. Writing for the \"Chicago Tribune\", former Defense Department intelligence analyst Alex Lyda penned a negative review, calling Snowden \"more narcissist than patriot\". David Edelstein reviewed the film mostly favorably, and jocularly advised viewers \"don't buy your ticket online or with a credit card\".\n\nThe film site Fandor has published an extensive survey of other articles and reviews about \"Citizenfour\", updated through December 25, 2014.\n\nIn December 2014, retired naval officer and oil executive Horace Edwards of Kansas filed suit against the film's producers \"on behalf of the American people\" for aiding and abetting Snowden's leaks. \"The Hollywood Reporter\" provided some legal analysis, noting observers opining that Edwards may not have legal standing to pursue the lawsuit. Edwards also challenged the film's Oscar eligibility on the grounds that Poitras' 2013 short film showing Greenwald interviewing Snowden constituted a previous release of \"Citizenfour\", rendering it ineligible under Oscar rules. The Academy rejected the claim, noting that \"the \"Guardian\" interview appears in less than two minutes of the documentary\", and ruled that \"Citizenfour\" was eligible for Oscar consideration.\n\nIn February 2015, the filmmakers asked the U.S. District Court for the District of Kansas to dismiss the lawsuit on standing and jurisdictional grounds, and on First Amendment grounds citing \"Bartnicki v. Vopper\". Edwards officially dropped the case on April 3, 2015.\n\nAt DOK Leipzig 2014, when \"Citizenfour\" won the Leipziger Ring award, Edward Snowden gave a video message to the festival.\n\n\"Citizenfour\" won the 2015 Academy Award for Best Documentary Feature. It was considered the frontrunner heading into the awards; Brent Lang of \"Variety\" called for \"Citizenfour\" to receive a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Picture, with \"THR\"s Gregg Kilday discussing its prospects, but it was not nominated in that category.\n\nPoitras also received several journalistic and humanitarian awards for reporting the Snowden disclosures depicted in the film, including the George Polk award (with Greenwald and MacAskill), the Ridenhour Truth-Telling Prize (with Edward Snowden) the Carl von Ossietzky medal for human rights (with Greenwald and Snowden), and the Henri Nannen Prize for Efforts for Independence of the Press. \"The Guardian\" and the \"Washington Post\" received the Pulitzer Prize for Public Service for reporting by Poitras, Greenwald, MacAskill, and Barton Gellman.\n\nPoitras took many security precautions related to the film, described by military writer Peter Maass among others. She moved to Berlin, Germany after being detained repeatedly at border controls when entering the US. She edited the film in Germany after flying directly there from Hong Kong with the Snowden footage, to prevent the FBI from showing up with a search warrant for her hard drives. All the film footage is kept on encrypted drives with multiple levels of nested protection. The computer she uses for reading sensitive documents is separated from the internet by an air gap. Greenwald credited her with a \"complete expert level of understanding of how to do a story like this with total technical and operational safety\". Maass called Poitras' security skills \"particularly vital — and far from the journalistic norm — in an era of pervasive government spying\", and quotes Snowden stating that \"[i]n the wake of this year's disclosure, it should be clear that unencrypted journalist-source communication is unforgivably reckless.\"\n\nBonnefoy has also discussed the encrypted workflow used in making the film, adding \"if we have a conversation that's particularly confidential, we'll move the electronics out of the room, or we'll just meet somewhere outside of the editing room, without our phones.\"\n\nThe Film Society of Lincoln Center (which selects films for the New York Film Festival) reported that Poitras changed the location of the initial screening for the NYFF's selection committee several times, in case someone was tracking her movements. The committee was shown a rough cut that had sensitive material redacted, and the NYFF \"had to keep the movie's inclusion in the festival under wraps until mid-September\" and it was \"kept out of festival schedules and documents until we could talk about it openly\". The last-minute inclusion in the festival's main slate was an unprecedented event for the NYFF, and \"tickets for both screenings sold out within just a few hours\".\n\nThe film's ending credits unusually name several free software projects and security tools, without which \"this film would not be possible\". The programs named include Tor, Tails, Debian GNU/Linux, Off-the-Record Messaging, the GNU Privacy Guard, Truecrypt, and SecureDrop. In October 2014, the Electronic Frontier Foundation published an informational page about the software credited in the film, and in November 2015 Poitras was prominently featured in a Tor fund-raising campaign.\n\nThe soundtrack consists of portions of the Nine Inch Nails album \"Ghosts I–IV\", which was released under a Creative Commons license (BY-NC-SA) in 2008.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39423886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39423886", "title": "Clean Energy Finance Corporation", "text": "Clean Energy Finance Corporation\n\nThe Clean Energy Finance Corporation (CEFC) is an Australian Government-owned Green Bank that was established to facilitate increased flows of finance into the clean energy sector. The CEFC is responsible for investing $10 billion in clean energy projects on behalf of the Australian Government. Its mission is to help lower Australia's carbon emissions by investing in renewable energy, energy efficiency and low emissions technologies across the economy, via a range of finance options. The CEFC also supports innovative start-up companies through the Clean Energy Innovation Fund. Across its portfolio, the CEFC invests to deliver a positive return for taxpayers.\n\nThe CEFC invests in accordance with its legislation, the \"Clean Energy Finance Corporation Act 2012\" (CEFC Act) and the prevailing Investment Mandate. The CEFC is a corporate Commonwealth entity under the \"Public Governance, Performance and Accountability Act 2013\" (PGPA Act). The CEFC has access to funding of $10 billion comprising annual appropriations to the CEFC Special Account of $2 billion every 1 July from 2013 to 2017 inclusive, in accordance with section 46 of the CEFC Act. The CEFC draws on this finance on an as needs basis, with non-committed funds remaining in the Special Account until required.\n\nThe CEFC is governed by an independent Board which has a statutory responsibility for decision-making, performance of the Corporation's functions and managing the CEFC's investments, and a Chief Executive Officer who is responsible for the day-to-day administration of the Corporation. A system of delegations exist to aid in the performance of these functions. The Board reports to Parliament through its Responsible Ministers.\n\nThe CEFC's investment objectives are to catalyse and leverage an increased flow of funds for the commercialisation and deployment of Australian-based renewable energy, energy efficiency and low-emissions technologies. The CEFC achieves its objectives through the prudent application of capital, in adherence with its risk management framework, its Investment Mandate and the investment policies issued by the CEFC Board.\n\nIn March 2017, Mr Ian Learmonth was appointed CEO, replacing founding CEO Mr Oliver Yates. New Board members were appointed from August 2017, with Mr Steven Skala AO replacing founding chair Ms Jillian Broadbent AO.\n\nThe CEFC was established under the \"Clean Energy Finance Corporation Act 2012\", passed by the Parliament of Australia on 22 July 2012. It was established on 3 August 2012 and commenced making investment commitments from 1 July 2013.\n\nOn 5 August 2013 the federal Coalition Opposition led by Tony Abbott wrote to the CEFC asking it to stop making new loans and to cease assessing new projects. After the 2013 federal election, on 5 December 2013, then CEFC Chair Jillian Broadbent said on ABC Radio National that the government should \"break an election promise\" and keep the CEFC in operation, citing a 7% profit. Coalition Senator Arthur Sinodinos said that if it's making a profit, it should survive without the government and essentially confirmed the government would shut the corporation down.. Legislation to abolish the CEFC and transfer the CEFC's existing assets and liabilities to the Commonwealth was put before Parliament but blocked by non-government senators in the Senate. In July 2015, Abbott announced he would ban the CEFC from investing in wind power and rooftop solar. On 13 July 2015, the CEFC said it was taking advice in relation to the draft Mandate.\n\nIn December 2015, Fairfax media reported that Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull had lifted the ban on CEFC investment in wind power, in his first major break from the former regime's environmental policy. \"The Guardian\" reported on 24 December 2015 that the CEFC had been directed to focus on innovative and emerging technologies, reversing a mandate by the former prime minister Tony Abbott that would have specifically blocked funding for windfarms and small-scale solar projects. \n\nThe Australian Government further tasked the CEFC with creating a $1 billion Sustainable Cities Investment Program and a $1 billion Reef Funding Program, in addition to its $200 million Clean Energy Innovation Fund, which is operated alongside the Australian Renewable Energy Agency (ARENA). Finance for the three programs is drawn from the CEFC's existing $10 billion allocation, with investments to be made in accordance with usual CEFC investment practice.\n\nThen CEFC Chair Jillian Broadbent AO canvassed the CEFC's role in the energy sector in a March 2017 discussion on \"Australia's Energy Future: Achieving the goals of energy security, sustainability and affordability.\" In her comments, Broadbent said: \"Australia's energy mix can incorporate higher levels of clean energy with strengthened transmission, better demand management systems and increased storage capacity. These need to be planned and co-ordinated.\"\n\nThese matters were explored further in the CEFC's submission to the Independent Review into the Future Security of the National Electricity Market - commonly referred to as the Finkel Review. The CEFC said the March 2017 submission drew on its experience as a specialist clean energy investor to frame out a number of areas that would benefit from reform, including: Market design to support security and reliability; technology to transform the electricity sector and barriers to investment.\n\nThe CEFC applies a commercial approach when making investment decisions and seeks to develop a portfolio across the spectrum of clean energy technologies that in aggregate must have an acceptable but not excessive level of risk relative to the sector. The Corporation applies a commercial filter when making its investment decisions, focussing on projects and technologies at the later stages of development. The filter is not as stringent as the private sector equivalent, as the Corporation has a public policy purpose and values any positive externalities being generated. Consequently, it has different risk/return requirements. For a given return, the Corporation may take on higher risk and, for a given level of risk, due to positive externalities, may accept a lower financial return. In line with its policy intent, the Corporation considers the positive externalities and public policy outcomes when making investment decisions and when determining the extent of any concession for an investment. The CEFC submission to the Statutory Review of the Corporation is publicly available.\n\nIn July 2018, CEO Ian Learmonth reported that the CEFC had directly committed to a further 39 projects in the 12 months to 30 June 2018, up from 36 direct investments in FY17. Total new CEFC commitments in FY18 were $2.3 billion, up from $2.1 billion in the previous year. CEFC commitments in FY18 included $1.1 billion in renewable energy, $939 million in energy efficiency, $100 million in transport and $127 million in waste-related projects. At 30 June 2018, total CEFC investment commitments since inception exceeded $6.6 billion. After allowing for repayment, amortisation and any cancellations, the CEFC investment portfolio was $5.3 billion at 30 June 2018. In five years of investing, CEFC commitments have now contributed to clean energy projects Australia-wide, with a total project value of $19 billion. The organisation had directly invested in more than 110 individual transactions and delivered finance for more than 5,500 smaller-scale clean energy projects. The CEFC said each dollar of CEFC investment commitments was matched by more than $1.80 of private sector finance, with the portfolio of investment commitments targeting annual cuts to greenhouse gas emissions of 10.8 million tonnes of CO2-e, and lifetime cuts to greenhouse gas emissions of more than 190 million tonnes of CO2-e.\n\nThroughout 2017-18, the CEFC announced a number of innovative financing transactions to encourage additional private sector investment in measures to reduce carbon emissions. These included measures to lower agribusiness-related emissions, through the agricultural platform of Macquarie Infrastructure and Real Assets (MIRA) as well as lowering infrastructure-related carbon emissions, with an investment in the IFM Australian Infrastructure Fund The CEFC has also identified transport-related emissions as an ongoing investment priority and, with ARENA, commissioned a detailed report into measures to accelerate the transition to electric vehicles.\n\nAt 30 June 2018, the CEFC reported that the Clean Energy Innovation Fund had established itself as the largest dedicated Australian investor of its kind. The Innovation Fund was created as a specialist financier to invest $200 million in early-stage clean energy companies. It draws on CEFC finance to provide primarily equity finance to innovative clean energy projects and businesses which involve renewable, energy efficiency and low emissions technologies. The Innovation Fund made investments commitments of more than $55 million in nine transactions in its first 18 months. The investments were across a diverse range of technologies – from second life batteries to smart meters; from state-of-the art car wheels to the internet of things, and many more.  The CEFC said the investments demonstrate the potential of Australian innovators to lead Australia's transition to a low carbon economy, helping to lower carbon emissions and to deliver on the benefits of clean energy. They also demonstrated the potential for innovative companies to capitalise on the new business opportunities emerging from Australia's clean energy transition. The CEFC draws on the technical expertise of the Australian Renewable Energy Agency (ARENA) in assessing potential investment opportunities for the Innovation Fund. The Innovation Fund does not provide grants.\n\nThe object of the CEFC is specified in section 3 of the CEFC Act as being 'to facilitate financial flows into the clean energy sector'. The main function of the CEFC is the 'investment function' (as specified in section 9 and subsection 58(1) of the CEFC Act), to invest, directly and indirectly, in renewable and low carbon technologies. Section 9 also specifies a number of support functions such as:\n\n\nUnder section 4 of the CEFC Act, the Responsible Ministers are the Minister for the Environment and Energy and the Minister for Finance. The Nominated Minister is one of the Responsible Ministers who exercises additional powers and functions under the CEFC Act. Subsection 76(1) of the CEFC Act provides that the Responsible Ministers determine between them which is to be nominated.\n\nThe CEFC is a statutory authority established by the Australian Government under the Clean Energy Finance Corporation Act 2012.  Under the Public Governance, Performance and Accountability Act (PGPA Act), the CEFC is known as a corporate Commonwealth entity.  The CEFC Act:\n\n\nThe CEFC publishes quarterly reports on its website regarding investment commitments.\n\nAn Investment Mandate direction is the means by which the Government of the day provides instruction as to how the Corporation can make investments, providing it:\n\nUnder the CEFC Act, the CEFC Board must be consulted on the draft of a proposed new mandate, and any submission made by the Board must be tabled in the Parliament. \n\nCEFC is headquartered in Sydney with offices also in Brisbane and Melbourne, and an additional staff member based in Townsville to focus on opportunities in North Queensland and in the Reef Catchment Area.\n\n"}
{"id": "21650435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21650435", "title": "Conservation-reliant species", "text": "Conservation-reliant species\n\nConservation-reliant species are animal or plant species that require continuing species-specific wildlife management intervention such as predator control, habitat management and parasite control to survive, even when a self-sustainable recovery in population is achieved.\n\nThe term \"conservation-reliant species\" grew out of the conservation biology undertaken by \"The Endangered Species Act at Thirty Project\" (launched 2001) and its popularization by project leader J. Michael Scott. Its first use in a formal publication was in \"Frontiers in Ecology and the Environment\" in 2005. Worldwide use of the term has not yet developed and it has not yet appeared in a publication compiled outside North America.\n\nPassages of the 1973 Endangered Species Act (ESA) carried with it the assumption that endangered species would be delisted as their populations recovered. It assumed they would then thrive under existing regulations and the protections afforded under the ESA would no longer be needed. However, eighty percent of species currently listed under the ESA fail to meet that assumption. To survive, they require species-specific conservation interventions (e.g. control of predators, competitors, nest parasites, prescribed burns, altered hydrological processes, etc.) and thus they are conservation-reliant.\n\nThe criteria for assessing whether a species is conservation-reliant are:\n\nThere are five major areas of management action for conservation of vulnerable species:\n\nA prominent example is in India, where tigers, an apex predator and the national animal, are considered a conservation-reliant species. This keystone species can maintain self-sustaining wild populations; however, they require ongoing management actions because threats are pervasive, recurrent and put them at risk of extinction. The origin of these threats are rooted in the changing socio-economic, political and spatial organization of society in India. Tigers have become extinct in some areas because of extrinsic factors such as habitat destruction, poaching, disease, floods, fires and drought, decline of prey species for the same reasons, as well as intrinsic factors such as demographic stochasticity and genetic deterioration.\n\nRecognizing the conservation reliance of tigers, Project Tiger is establishing a national science-based framework for monitoring tiger population trends in order to manage the species more effectively. India now has 28 tiger reserves, located in 17 states. These reserves cover including 1.14% of the total land area of the country. These reserves are kept free of biotic disturbances, forestry operations, collection of minor forest products, grazing and human disturbance. The populations of tigers in these reserves now constitute some of the most important tiger source populations in the country.\n\nThe magnitude and pace of human impacts on the environment make it unlikely that substantial progress will be made in delisting many species unless the definition of \"recovery\" includes some form of active management. Preventing delisted species from again being at risk of extinction may require continuing, species-specific management actions. Viewing \"recovery\" of \"conservation-reliant species\" as a continuum of phases rather a simple \"recovered/not recovered\" status may enhance the ability to manage such species within the framework of the Endangered Species Act. With ongoing loss of habitat, disruption of natural cycles, increasing impacts of non-native invasive species, it is probable that the number of conservation-reliant species will increase.\n\nIt has been proposed that development of \"recovery management agreements\", with legally and biologically defensible contracts would provide for continuing conservation management following delisting. The use of such formalized agreements will facilitate shared management responsibilities between federal wildlife agencies and other federal agencies, and with state, local, and tribal governments, as well as with private entities that have demonstrated the capability to meet the needs of conservation-reliant species.\n"}
{"id": "5447834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5447834", "title": "Crow instability", "text": "Crow instability\n\nIn aerodynamics, the Crow Instability, or V.C.I. vortex crow instability, is an inviscid line-vortex instability, named after its discoverer S. C. Crow.\nThe Crow instability is most commonly observed in the skies behind large aircraft such as the Boeing 747. It occurs when the wingtip vortices interact with contrails from the engines, producing visible distortions in the shape of the contrail.\n\nThe Crow Instability is a vortex pair instability, and typically goes through several stages:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17791786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17791786", "title": "Denver Convergence Vorticity Zone", "text": "Denver Convergence Vorticity Zone\n\nThe Denver Convergence Vorticity Zone (DCVZ) is an orographically-induced atmospheric phenomenon characterized by convergent winds east of the Denver metropolitan area, typically 50 to 100 km in length and oriented in a north-south direction. This meteorological feature was subject to academic scrutiny following a large outbreak of Denver-area tornadoes in 1981 and has been used to explain the propensity of the area to spawn landspout (misocyclone) and supercell (mesocyclone) tornadoes. The DCVZ is often associated with the Denver Cyclone effect, although the Denver Cyclone is considered a distinct atmospheric phenomenon by some scientists.\n\nDCVZ conditions form when a low-level moist, southeasterly flowing air mass meets the Palmer Divide, a ridge that extends east of the Colorado Front Range. If the moist air lifts over the ridge and meets northwesterly winds originating in the Rocky Mountain foothills, winds may converge to create enhanced cyclonic vorticity. A study conducted between 1981 and 1989 demonstrated that the DCVZ formed on one-third of all days during the convective season (May through August).\n\nDCVZ conditions are often associated with the Denver Cyclone effect, which is characterized by the formation of a large gyre near the city center.\n\nSeveral studies have documented the role of the DCVZ in tornado outbreaks across the Denver area. Using climatic data from the 1980s, one researcher has suggested that the presence of a strong June DCVZ has been associated with a 70% chance of zone-area tornado formation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36335774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36335774", "title": "Diospyros ebonasea", "text": "Diospyros ebonasea\n\nMalaysian blackwood (Diospyros ebonasea), is a species of flowering tree in the family Ebenaceae that is endemic to the forests of Malaysia. Malaysian blackwood is a nickname of this wood, but actually this wood is one of the ebony family in the world.\n\nMalaysian blackwood is a premium tonewood that is well suited for all sorts of guitars. It has become a favorite of several well-known high-end luthiers, and its popularity is growing. Denser than most rosewood, the sustaining, glassy tap tone draws comparisons to African blackwood. It is slightly less brittle though, and unlike African blackwood, most sets have dark streaks. The overall coloring is similar to ziricote, with black and dark gray colors highlighted by subtle reddish brown and/or green hues.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "453420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=453420", "title": "Directed-energy weapon", "text": "Directed-energy weapon\n\nA directed-energy weapon (DEW) is a ranged weapon that damages its target with highly focused energy, including laser, microwaves and particle beams. Potential applications of this technology include weapons that target personnel, missiles, vehicles, and optical devices.\n\nIn the United States, the Pentagon, DARPA, the Air Force Research Laboratory, United States Army Armament Research Development and Engineering Center, and the Naval Research Laboratory are researching directed-energy weapons and railguns to counter ballistic missiles, hypersonic cruise missiles, and hypersonic glide vehicles. These systems of missile defense are expected to come online no sooner than the mid to late-2020s. \n\nRussia, China, India, and the United Kingdom are also developing directed-energy weapons.\n\nAfter decades of R&D, directed-energy weapons are still at the experimental stage and it remains to be seen if or when they will be deployed as practical, high-performance military weapons.\n\nDirected energy weapons could have several main advantages over conventional weaponry:\n\nAlthough some devices are labelled as microwave weapons, the microwave range is commonly defined as being between 300 MHz and 300 GHz which is within the RF range—these frequencies having wavelengths of 1–1000 micrometers. Some examples of weapons which have been publicized by the military are as follows:\n\nAn electrolaser first ionizes its target path, and then sends a powerful electric current down the conducting track of ionized plasma, somewhat like lightning. It functions as a giant, high-energy, long-distance version of the Taser or stun gun.\n\nPulsed Energy Projectile or PEP systems emit an infrared laser pulse which creates rapidly expanding plasma at the target. The resulting sound, shock and electromagnetic waves stun the target and cause pain and temporary paralysis. The weapon is under development and is intended as a non-lethal weapon in crowd control though it can also be used as a lethal weapon.\n\nA dazzler is a directed-energy weapon intended to temporarily blind or disorient its target with intense directed radiation. Targets can include sensors or human vision. Dazzlers emit infrared or invisible light against various electronic sensors, and visible light against humans, when they are intended to cause no long-term damage to eyes. The emitters are usually lasers, making what is termed a \"laser dazzler\". Most of the contemporary systems are man-portable, and operate in either the red (a laser diode) or green (a diode-pumped solid-state laser, DPSS) areas of the electromagnetic spectrum.\n\nInitially developed for military use, non-military products are becoming available for use in law enforcement and security.\nThe personnel halting and stimulation response rifle (PHASR) is a prototype non-lethal laser dazzler developed by the Air Force Research Laboratory's Directed Energy Directorate, U.S. Department of Defense. Its purpose is to temporarily disorient and blind a target. Blinding laser weapons have been tested in the past, but were banned under the 1995 United Nations Protocol on Blinding Laser Weapons, which the United States acceded to on 21 January 2009. The PHASR rifle, a low-intensity laser, is not prohibited under this regulation, as the blinding effect is intended to be temporary. It also uses a two-wavelength laser. The PHASR was tested at Kirtland Air Force Base, part of the Air Force Research Laboratory Directed Energy Directorate in New Mexico.\n\n\nMost of these projects have been cancelled, discontinued, never went beyond the prototype or experimental stage, or are only used in niche applications. Effective, high performance laser weapons seem to be difficult to achieve using current or near-future technology.\n\nLaser beams begin to cause plasma breakdown in the atmosphere at energy densities of around one megajoule per cubic centimetre. This effect, called \"blooming,\" causes the laser to defocus and disperse energy into the surrounding air. Blooming can be more severe if there is fog, smoke, or dust in the air.\n\nTechniques that may reduce these effects include:\n\nThe Chinese People's Liberation Army has invested in the development of coatings that can deflect beams fired by U.S. military lasers. Laser light can be deflected, reflected, or absorbed by manipulating physical and chemical properties of materials. Artificial coatings can counter certain specific types of lasers, but a different type of laser may match the coating's absorption spectrum enough to transfer damaging amounts of energy. The coatings are made of several different substances, including low-cost metals, rare earths, carbon fiber, silver, and diamonds that have been processed to fine sheens and tailored against specific laser weapons. China is developing anti-laser defenses because protection against them is considered far cheaper than creating competing laser weapons themselves. Apart from creating countermeasures, China has also created a direct-energy weapon called the Silent Hunter that can burn through 5mm of steel at 1000m.\n\nDielectric mirrors, inexpensive ablative coatings, thermal transport delay and obscurants are also being studied as countermeasures. In not a few operational situations, even simple, passive countermeasures like rapid rotation (which spreads the heat and doesn't allow a fixed targeting point) or higher acceleration (which increases the distance and changes the angle quickly) can defeat or help to defeat non-highly pulsed, high energy laser weapons.\n\nParticle-beam weapons can use charged or neutral particles, and can be either endoatmospheric or exoatmospheric. Particle beams as beam weapons are theoretically possible, but practical weapons have not been demonstrated yet. Certain types of particle beams have the advantage of being self-focusing in the atmosphere.\n\nBlooming is also a problem in particle-beam weapons. Energy that would otherwise be focused on the target spreads out; the beam becomes less effective:\n\nPlasma weapons fire a beam, bolt, or stream of plasma, which is an excited state of matter consisting of atomic electrons & nuclei and free electrons if ionized, or other particles if pinched.\n\nThe MARAUDER (\"Magnetically Accelerated Ring to Achieve Ultra-high Directed-Energy and Radiation\") used the Shiva Star project (a high energy capacitor bank which provided the means to test weapons and other devices requiring brief and extremely large amounts of energy) to accelerate a toroid of plasma at a significant percentage of the speed of light.\n\nThe Russian Federation is developing plasma weapons.\n\nCavitation, which affects gas nuclei in human tissue, and heating can result from exposure to ultrasound and can damage tissue and organs. Studies have found that exposure to high intensity ultrasound at frequencies from 700 kHz to 3.6 MHz can cause lung and intestinal damage in mice. Heart rate patterns following vibroacoustic stimulation have resulted in potentially serious atrial flutter and bradycardia. Researchers have concluded that generating pain through the auditory system using high intensity sound risked permanent hearing damage.\n\nA multi-organization research program involved high intensity audible sound experiments on human subjects. Extra-aural (unrelated to hearing) bioeffects on various internal organs and the central nervous system included auditory shifts, vibrotactile sensitivity change, muscle contraction, cardiovascular function change, central nervous system effects, vestibular (inner ear) effects, and chest wall/lung tissue effects. Researchers found that low frequency sonar exposure could result in significant cavitations, hypothermia, and tissue shearing. Follow-on experiments were not recommended.\n\nTests performed on mice show the threshold for both lung and liver damage occurs at about 184 dB. Damage increases rapidly as intensity is increased. Noise-induced neurological disturbances in humans exposed to continuous low frequency tones for durations longer than 15 minutes involved development of immediate and long-term problems affecting brain tissue. The symptoms resembled those of individuals who had suffered minor head injuries. One theory for a causal mechanism is that the prolonged sound exposure resulted in enough mechanical strain to brain tissue to induce an encephalopathy.\n\nThe Long Range Acoustic Device (LRAD) is an acoustic hailing device developed by LRAD Corporation to send messages and warning tones over longer distances or at higher volume than normal loudspeakers. LRAD systems are used for long range communications in a variety of applications including as a means of non-lethal, non-kinetic crowd control.\n\nAccording to the manufacturer's specifications, the systems weigh from and can emit sound in a 30°- 60° beam at 2.5 kHz.\n\nAccording to a legend, Archimedes created a mirror with an adjustable focal length (or more likely, a series of mirrors focused on a common point) to focus sunlight on ships of the Roman fleet as they invaded Syracuse, setting them on fire. Historians point out that the earliest accounts of the battle did not mention a \"burning mirror\", but merely stated that Archimedes's ingenuity combined with a way to hurl fire were relevant to the victory. Some attempts to replicate this feat have had some success; in particular, an experiment by students at MIT showed that a mirror-based weapon was at least possible, if not necessarily practical.\n\nIn 1935, the British Air Ministry asked Robert Watson-Watt of the Radio Research Station whether a \"death ray\" was possible. He and colleague Arnold Wilkins quickly concluded that it was not feasible, but as a consequence suggested using radio for the detection of aircraft and this started the development of radar in Britain.\n\nStories in the 1930s and World War Two gave rise to the idea of an \"engine-stopping ray\". They seemed to have arisen from the testing of the television transmitter in Feldberg, Germany. Because electrical noise from car engines would interfere with field strength measurements, sentries would stop all traffic in the vicinity for the twenty minutes or so needed for a test. Reversing the order of events in retelling the story created a \"tale\" where tourists car engine stopped first and then were approached by a German soldier who told them that they had to wait. The soldier returned a short time later to say that the engine would now work and the tourists drove off. Such stories were circulating in Britain around 1938 and during the war British Intelligence relaunched the myth as a \"British engine-stopping ray\", trying to spoof the Germans into researching what the British had supposedly invented in an attempt to tie up German scientific resources.\n\nDuring the early 1940s Axis engineers developed a sonic cannon that could cause fatal vibrations in its target body. A methane gas combustion chamber leading to two parabolic dishes pulse-detonated at roughly 44 Hz. This sound, magnified by the dish reflectors, caused vertigo and nausea at by vibrating the middle ear bones and shaking the cochlear fluid within the inner ear. At distances of , the sound waves could act on organ tissues and fluids by repeatedly compressing and releasing compressive resistant organs such as the kidneys, spleen, and liver. (It had little detectable effect on malleable organs such as the heart, stomach and intestines.) Lung tissue was affected at only the closest ranges as atmospheric air is highly compressible and only the blood rich alveoli resist compression. In practice, the weapon was highly vulnerable to enemy fire. Rifle, bazooka and mortar rounds easily deformed the parabolic reflectors, rendering the wave amplification ineffective.\n\nIn the later phases of World War II, Nazi Germany increasingly put its hopes on research into technologically revolutionary secret weapons, the \"Wunderwaffen\".\n\nAmong the directed-energy weapons the Nazis investigated were X-ray beam weapons developed under Heinz Schmellenmeier, Richard Gans and Fritz Houtermans. They built an electron accelerator called Rheotron (invented by Max Steenbeck at Siemens-Schuckert in the 1930s, these were later called Betatrons by the Americans) to generate hard X-ray synchrotron beams for the Reichsluftfahrtministerium (RLM). The intent was to pre-ionize ignition in aircraft engines and hence serve as anti-aircraft DEW and bring planes down into the reach of the FLAK. The Rheotron was captured by the Americans in Burggrub on April 14, 1945.\n\nAnother approach was Ernst Schiebolds 'Röntgenkanone' developed from 1943 in Großostheim near Aschaffenburg. The Company Richert Seifert & Co from Hamburg delivered parts.\n\nThe Central Intelligence Agency informed Secretary Henry Kissinger that it had twelve reports of Soviet forces using laser-based weapons against Chinese forces during the 1969 Sino-Soviet border clashes, though William Colby doubted that they had actually been employed.\n\nIn the 1980s, U.S. President Ronald Reagan proposed the Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI) program, which was nicknamed \"Star Wars\". It suggested that lasers, perhaps space-based X-ray lasers, could destroy ICBMs in flight. Panel discussions on the role of high-power lasers in SDI took place at various laser conferences, during the 1980s, with the participation of noted physicists including Edward Teller.\n\nThough the strategic missile defense concept has continued to the present under the Missile Defense Agency, most of the directed-energy weapon concepts were shelved. However, Boeing has been somewhat successful with the Boeing YAL-1 and Boeing NC-135, the first of which destroyed two missiles in February 2010. Funding has been cut to both of the programs.\n\nDuring the Iraq War, electromagnetic weapons, including high power microwaves, were used by the U.S. military to disrupt and destroy Iraqi electronic systems and may have been used for crowd control. Types and magnitudes of exposure to electromagnetic fields are unknown.\n\nThe Soviet Union invested some effort in the development of ruby and carbon dioxide lasers as anti-ballistic missile systems, and later as a tracking and anti-satellite system. There are reports that the Terra-3 complex at Sary Shagan was used on several occasions to temporarily \"blind\" US spy satellites in the IR range.\n\nIt has been claimed (and proven false) that the USSR made use of the lasers at the Terra-3 site to target the Space Shuttle \"Challenger\" in 1984. At the time, the Soviet Union were concerned that the shuttle was being used as a reconnaissance platform. On 10 October 1984 (STS-41-G), the Terra-3 tracking laser was allegedly aimed at \"Challenger\" as it passed over the facility. Early reports claimed that this was responsible for causing \"malfunctions on the space shuttle and distress to the crew\", and that the United States filed a diplomatic protest about the incident. However, this story is comprehensively denied by the crew members of STS-41-G and knowledgeable members of the US intelligence community.\n\nIn the United States, the Directed Energy Solar Targeting of Asteroids and exploRation (DE-STAR) Project was considered for non-military use to protect Earth from asteroids.\n\nThe TECOM Technology Symposium in 1997 concluded on non-lethal weapons, \"determining the target effects on personnel is the greatest challenge to the testing community\", primarily because \"the potential of injury and death severely limits human tests\".\n\nAlso, \"directed energy weapons that target the central nervous system and cause neurophysiological disorders may violate the Certain Conventional Weapons Convention of 1980. Weapons that go beyond non-lethal intentions and cause \"superfluous injury or unnecessary suffering\" may also violate the Protocol I to the Geneva Conventions of 1977.\"\n\nSome common bio-effects of non-lethal electromagnetic weapons include:\nInterference with breathing poses the most significant, potentially lethal results.\n\nLight and repetitive visual signals can induce epileptic seizures. Vection and motion sickness can also occur.\n\nCruise ships are known to use sonic weapons (such as LRAD) to drive off pirates.\n\nRussia has been reportedly using blinding laser weapons during its military intervention in Donbass.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48173893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48173893", "title": "Environmental Fluid Mechanics", "text": "Environmental Fluid Mechanics\n\nEnvironmental Fluid Mechanics is a bimonthly peer-reviewed scientific journal on Earth sciences published by Springer Science+Business Media.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in:\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2014 impact factor of 1.297.\n"}
{"id": "42091538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42091538", "title": "Environmental issues in Pristina", "text": "Environmental issues in Pristina\n\nPristina is the capital and the most populated city of Kosovo. It is also considered as the most polluted city in Kosovo. Basic reason for Pristina’s air pollution is coal mining and energy emitted by the single producer of energy, Kosovo Energy Corporation J.S.C. KEK operates through two power plants, Kosovo A and B located 5 km near Pristina. Furthermore, the diesel-spitting car traffic highly contributes to the pollution of air, along with the wood and coal household heating system and central coal-heating company \"Termokos\" that operates in Pristina.\n\nMain sources of air pollution in Pristina are:\n\nAir in Pristina is polluted mainly from:\n\nNO\n\nThe main nitrogen oxide found in air in Pristina is nitrogen oxide NO2. NO affects the color of textile materials, causes corrosion in metallic materials, and at vegetation causes the drop of leaves; therefore, limit values are set. NO2 is 4 times more lethal than NO, and it is mostly concentrated in urban areas. NO2 in Pristina comes 52% from transport, 28% from fuel for power production, and 11% from industry. Pristina has a lower annual average of NO2 emission as compared to the annual average limit allowed.\n\nAnnual average of NO in Pristina\n\nThe annual average of NO emission in Pristina was 20.82 µg/m3 in 2010, which is lower than limit of 40 µg/m3. There are no available data for 2011, which would allow in turn comparing 2010 and 2011. However, this result comes from very low percentage of data collected, with only 68% of data being valid; this means that the emission of NO, may not be accurate. In the other hand, according to the National Institute of Public Health of Kosovo study, the emission of NO2 is alarming; in only three months of, NO2 measurement have exceeded allowed emissions by 18 times. The emission of NO is higher in winter, where the heating process is accelerated, with February being as the peak month. The main contributor to the pollution of air with NO is Kosovo A and B power plants. Thus, NO emission is estimated to be higher in urban areas where traffic is enormous. The good side of the story is that in Pristina there is no exceed of the NO limit that would cause health problems in people’s life; however, this does not apply for other cities of Pristina.\n\nSO\n\nAnnual average values of SO in Pristina\n\nThe annual average of NO2 emission in Pristina was 20.82 µg/m3 in 2010, which is lower than limit of 40 µg/m3. There are no available data for 2011, which would allow in turn comparing 2010 and 2011. However, this result comes from very low percentage of data collected, with only 68% of data being valid; this means that the emission of NO2, may not be accurate. In the other hand, according to the National Institute of Public Health of Kosovo study, the emission of NO2 is alarming; in only three months of, NO2 measurement have exceeded allowed emissions by 18 times. The emission of NO2 is higher in winter, where the heating process is accelerated, with February being as the peak month. The main contributor to the pollution of air with NO2 is Kosovo A and B power plants. Thus, NO2 emission is estimated to be higher in urban areas where traffic is enormous. The good side of the story is that in Pristina there is no exceed of the NO2 limit that would cause health problems in people’s life; however, this does not apply for other cities of Pristina.\n\nCO\n\nVehicles and fuel burning companies are the main CO pollutants of air in Pristina. Fuel burning contains liquid fuels, natural gas and wood, combustion of coal, and industrial processes such as furnaces, paper factories, the refineries, and facilities for production of construction materials. CO emission in air can be mitigated through plants; however, this is another problem in Pristina. The lack of green spaces and well-maintained parks makes impossible the mitigation of CO. The highest pollutant is the production of energy, with its annual CO contribution to global warming is 5.5 million tons. CO pollution comes 30% from fuel use for power generation, 29% from transport, 20% from industry, 15% from residential commerce, and 6% from other sources. \nIf Pristina is compared with regional countries, it is noticed that Pristina exceeds the OSCE and EU emissions of CO. Pristina has higher emission of CO2 compared to the region of Serbia, and lower emissions compared to the region of Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\nPM emission on air comes mainly from transport in Pristina. In the road transportation, this comes mainly from cars and tires. The problem relies in the intensive increase of automobiles in Pristina, where most of them are old and do not possess catalysts. Pristina’s cars life span differs from 5 years to more than 15 years. 7.5% of registered cars are newer than 5 years old, 77.36% are older than 10 years, and 66.82% of them are more than 15 years old. Furthermore, each day in Pristina enter an enormous number of cars, creating traffic as well as air pollution. Out of the total number of vehicles registered in Kosovo, 31.18% of them are registered in Pristina; 84% are passenger’s vehicles, 13% are from transporting, and the others come mainly from urban traffic. The public transportation in Pristina contains mainly busses exported from other countries. There are 757 licensed buses routes per day and out of these 382 are executed on average per day. Buses/minibuses connecting urban and suburban areas total 151with 935 departures per day. \nThere are two main stations in Pristina that measure the air pollution: Kosovo Hydro Meteorological Institute and \"Rilindja.\"\nPM\nNumber of days with exceeded limit values of PM\n\nAs it can be seen from the table that the maximum amount allowed to be exceeded with PM10, is 35 days and the maximum daily value is 50 µg/m3. However, according to KHMI, Pristina has exceeded this limit for 99 days in 2010 and for 68 days in 2011. The majority of days with exceedance of average daily values were during the winter months. The table below presents PM maximum, minimum, and average monthly values, where November is the month with the highest recorded PM value. \nMonthly average values, max and min. of PM, station IHMK (Prishtina1)\n\nThe annual limit of (40 µg/m3)14 was also exceeded in 2010 and 2011, as it can be seen from figure 2. The highest pollution value reached from traffic in Pristina was estimated to be 75.74 µg/m3, which is 1.9 times more than the average annual limit.\n\nPM\n\nAnnual Average of PM\n\nThe average annual emission of PM is 25 µg/m3. However, Pristina has exceeded this limit in 2010 and 2011. Furthermore, the PM concentration has increased from 37.34 µg/m3 in 2010 to 40.40 µg/m3in 2011. The highest value of PM2.5 has been recorded in the winter months, with November leading among other months.\n\nMonthly average values, max and min. of PM, station IHMK (Pristina1)\n\nKosovo A and B power plant are the number one pollutant of Pristina. It is the primary factor contributing to the pollution of air with the above-mentioned gasses. Kosovo A and B power plant produce 97% of the energy used in Pristina, while only 3% comes from water. Kosovo Energy Corporation is the main polluter in Pristina region. There is no continuous emission monitoring system from those two plants. However, lower emissions have been reported in Kosovo B compared to Kosovo A. Kosovo A has three blocks, A, A, A, and Kosovo B has two blocks B and B. According to the state report for environmental conditions in Kosovo, both power plants have exceeded the SO limit in air, that of 400 mg/Nm3, and the NO limit that of 500 mg/Nm3, and dust emission limit that of 50 mg/Nm3. CO emission from A is lower from power plant B, as it can be seen in the table below.\n\nCO emissions from power plant A and B in Pristina\n\nElectro filters are planned to be established in A, A and A with the aim to increase the efficiency of the existing electro filters. However, as it can be seen, KEDS CO emissions are more than 6 million tons annually, which means 520 tons per hour. \nWhen KEDS produces at full capacity (200 MW), it emits 25 tons of dust and ash (that includes gases) per hour, which is 74 times more than the European limit. Critical months are April, June, July, October, November and December, where the emission of gases and dust exceeds the limit allowed.\n\nFacts from Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning in Kosovo:\n\n\"Greenhouse gasses: 10,797,000 tons of CO and 425,000 t of CH\"\n\"CO emissions: 986,000 tons\"\n\"Dust emissions: 167,000 t with specific values from 1,881mg/m to 7,523 mg/m at Kosovo A and 250 mg/m at Kosovo B\"\n\"SO emissions: 167,000 t with specific values of 895 mg/m\"\n\"NO Emission: 20,000 t with specific values from 358 mg/m to 478 mg/m at Kosovo A and 735 mg/m at Kosovo B.\" \nThe Ministry of Environment has concluded that the problem with dust emitted from those two power plants is serious and it cannot be avoided without major redesign of the boilers. Units in Kosovo A need serious assessment since they are at the end of their lifespan. On the other hand, Kosovo B has a longer lifespan, but the existing electrostatic precipitator is in very bad conditions and also there is low control of dust emission in the air. European Union has set some targets that those power plants reach by 2017. Dust emission should be max 50 mg/Nm, SO max 400 mg/Nm, and NO max 500 mg/Nm.\n\nEmissions released from Power Plants A and B\n\nHeating company \"Termokos\" covers most of the neighborhoods in Pristina. This company operates with oil and gas, while the cogeneration system is considered to be a very stable solution for the improvement of the heating system in Pristina. However, Termokoscovers only three main cities in Kosovo, 3-4% of households in general are heated from it. \nThere are some problems related with Termokos:\n\n\nSO pollution from Termokos\n\nAs it can be seen in the table Termokos releases 491 mg/Nm, while the limit, as stated before is 400 mg/Nm. In this way, it can be noticed that Termokos is one of the main pollutants of Pristina.\nHouseholds in Pristina use mainly wood for heating. Oftentimes, households use old sofa that do not use filters, and the pollutants end up in the air. This problem could be avoided if the central heating problem would be solved, so that Termokos could supply with heating each house in Pristina region. This in turn would disincentivize people to secure heating materials on their own, which in turn would decrease the air pollution as well.\n\n\"For more information visit:\"\nKosovo Law on Air Protection\n\n\"For more information visit:\"\"\nKosovo Law on Environment Protection\n\nPristina City has limited quantities of surface and groundwater, which are mainly distributed in the peripheral areas. A small fraction of the available water is found as underground water, such as that in \"Pajtimi\" field that amounts to 50 liters / sec and \"Germia\" source that amounts to 15 liters /sec. \nWatercourses are scarce. There are small rivers in the urban area, such as Pristina and Vellusha Rivers that collect the water flows of faux pas coming from Lagjia e Spitalit, Mati, Kodra e Trimave, and Shkabaj.\nVellusha and Pristina Rivers serve to collect rainwater from all urban areas of Pristina. The main drinking water sources remain Batllava and Badovc Lakes. \nBatllava Lake – it has a capacity of 38 million m³ of water and supplies the town of Pristina with 65% of drinking water. Batllava represents the main source of drinking water for the municipality of Pristina. It was built in 1960-1963; initially it worked only for technical water supply to the energy complex in Obilic. From 1982 it turned into water resource for drinking water for the Pristina region. Recently, the water treatment plant in Shajkovc was built, which has a maximum capacity of 900 liters/sec. \nBadovci Lake- has a volume of 27 million m³ and supplies the town of Pristina with 35% of drinking water. It was initially built in 1960 for the supply of drinking water, irrigation, and technical water for Kishnica mine. From1980 this lake is mainly used for drinking water purposes for Pristina region. The water treatment plant has been built in Badovc, which has a maximum capacity 400l/sec.\nThose two lakes are the main source of water in Pristine. They both supply around 90% of population in Pristina region with drinking water. However, the distribution power has many problems. Most of the pipes used are older than 50 years, which lose around 50% of available water; 35% are technical losses, while 15% are commercial losses. As a result there are reductions on available water to citizens, with 8-10 hours/day water cuts to each household. \nAnother problem is the water contamination. There is no urban water monitoring in Kosovo. There are only some small regional, water companies that do not have large competencies on water monitoring. Wastewater discharges remain the main pollutants of water in Pristina. Those wastes are dangerous because they contain substances such as soluble compounds of phosphorus, dissolved oxygen, pathogenic bacteria and viruses, nitrogen (eutrophication), and other matters that affect the water quality. Main carrier of underground waters pollution is Prishtevka River, which at the same time is the main carrier of sewage and rainwater.\n\nThere are two main pollutants of water in Pristina: collective pollutants and industrial pollutants. Collective pollutants are households and individuals that throw waste in water and have common canalization system. Industrial pollutants are the largest industrial pollutants, such as agriculture, chemicals, and ironmongery pollutants. There are 6 individual pollutants in Prishtevka River, and 1 collective pollutant. There are 15 collective pollutants in Llapi River, and 7 individual pollutants. Sitnica River has 24 collective pollutants and 7 individual pollutants, and Gracanka River has 3 collective pollutants, and 1 individual pollutant. The table below shows the individualpollutants in Pristina and their landfills.\n\nIndividual Water Pollutants in Pristina\n\nThe city of Pristina has the system of moving sewage water out of the center of Pristina, but it does not have the system of continuing maintenance of sewage waters. The movement of sewage waters is done toward rivers in Pristina, mainly on Sitnica River. Sitnica is the main receiver of sewage waters coming from citizens of Pristina. The total amount of water discharged into Sitnica from urban area is 800liters/sec, from which 450liter/sec are taken through Pristina River and 150 liters/sec through Vellushariver. Other amounts are taken through Shkabajfaux pas. There are only 8 settlements in Pristina with public or own canalization system. The table below presents main regions of Pristina and their landfills of sewage waters.\n\nWater pollutants in Pristina\n\nAs it can be seen from the table, the main polluted river with most sewage waters flows on it is Prishtevka. It can be said that Prishtevka has turned into a river flow of sewage waters, withmore than 400,000 inhabitants polluting it. \nAnother big problem is with sewage waters that are present in Taukbashçe Park, which besides the fact that they are polluted and are part of the park, they also smell horrible for people who visit the park. This may cause health problem to people, given the fact that elderly people are those that visit this park mostly.\n\nConsidering the problem of Pristina to supply its citizens with water, underground water has been thought to be a rescue for this problem. Kolevica underground waters have been the main supplier of water for Pristina from 1950 to 1970. Those waters are placed in the northern side of Pristina, with a maximum capacity of 50 liters/sec. However, with the construction of Batllava River, those underground rivers were left unused, and now they form part of the polluted waters in Pristina. \nGermia Source is another underground water resource that lies in Germia Park ad is the oldest water sources known. It has been used many years ago, and it has a flow of 15 liters/sec. This source is used for GermiaBasis,while those days Germia’s underground waters are considered to be the main source of water for Pristina citizens.\n\nThere are hidden wells in Pristina, which most of them are covered with waste and are in the most polluted areas of Pristina. These sources are used when surface water is lacking. Recently, water has been found in \"Pajtimi\" field, which currently is one of the waste polluted areas. However, in an attempt to clean Pristina environment, and also find water, the opening phase of these wells has started and they are estimated to be completed by mid-2014. In this place, 9 wells are found, and the flow is estimated at 60 liters/sec. \nThere are two other wells in Llukar village. Those wells are estimated to have a flow of 50 liters/sec. The problem with those two wells is their usage, mainly for auto washing. Those wells ceased being used in 1989, and they are expected to become active again by mid-2014. \nA plan to plant trees in Pristina and lower air pollution, has prompted that 17 artificial wells to be opened in Pristina. The Pristina municipal government has provided funding for these wells, which would supply the water the irrigation of the newly planted trees.\n\n\"For more information visit:\"\nKosovo Law on Water\n\nThe region of Pristina is the highest waste container. In 2007, 61.644.35 ton of waste have been collected only in Pristina, while in 2008, 80.185.06 ton of waste have been collected in Pristina.\n\nWaste Collection in Pristina 2007 and 2008\n\nThe average amount of municipal waste disposal in Pristina is 0.9 kg/day per person, while 332 kg/year per person. If Pristina is compared with other municipalities, it can be seen that Pristina differs much more. While in Pristina the average waste disposal is 332 kg/year per person, in other municipalities this average is 95 kg/year per person. The problem relies in the disposal of this waste is done in (field-waste) municipal surface. Those waste disposals have not filled the minimum standard requirements for waste. They are settled near habitats and rivers, which most of time end up polluting the rivers also, especially underground waters and wells. Oftentimes those waste disposals are burned from nature, as well as from people. During summer they smell badly because most of waste is not even covered with grit. Some disposals in Pristina have been closed, with the aim to reduce those negative effects in the nature; however, still most of them remain uncovered. \nPristina regional waste disposal collects waste from Prishtinë, Obiliq, Lipjan, Fushë Kosovë and Drenas(Gllogoc). The size of this disposal is approximately 40 hectares, it has a lide span of 15 years, and its total capacity is 3,500,000 m while its monthly capacity is 6000 tons. The status of this disposal is miserable, with a very bad smell causing many health implications to people.\n\nAs the capital city of Kosovo, Pristina has the largest number of inhabitants, which in turn means that it has the largest amount of waste disposal. Generation, collection, treatment, and elimination of waste in Pristinais done by \"Pastrimi\" Company, which covers the highest percentage of people with this service compared to other municipalities. In 2007 this company covered 64% of the population with this service, in 2008 52%, in 2009 53%, and in 2010 55%. Collection of waste is done through two ways: 52% door-to-door collection and 48% for collective apartments.\n\nWaste collection in Pristina\n\nIn 2012, local yearly waste per capita was 515 kg, while daily waste per capita was 1.4 kg. The total amount of waste collected in Pristina is 248,832 ton. (cite 37)\nThe collection of local waste in Pristina has increased from 2007 to 2012. In 2007 182,000 ton were collected, while in 2012 249,000 ton were collected. This is an example of an increase in the efficiency of waste collection. If Pristina is compared with the other regions, the collection of waste per capita is much higher. Only in 2012, the difference between Pristina and other regions collection of waste was 0.7 kg.\n\nIndustrial waste contains substances in various aggregate forms that remained for a long time in different facilities, warehouses, and industrial units.Over time, the usage of some of these substances has expired or degraded by changing their composition, making them as highly hazardous substances for people’s health.\n\nIndustrial Waste in Pristina\n\nAs it can be seen, Kosovo A power plant is one of the largest pollutants with industrial waste, followed by Kishnica Laboratory.\n\nThis type of waste includes medicinal pills whose usage is not valid anymore. This sector in Pristina does not have a system of collection, transportation, or elimination. Even though, new waste disposals have been set in hospital as well as in medicinal family centers, they are not being used as much. Medicinal pills are thrown in normal waste disposals. When medicinal pills stay for a long time without valid usage time, then they release dangerous substances for human’s health. The Municipal Family Medicine Center in Pristina releases 60 tons/year medicinal waste. \nMedicinal waste is found also in some pharmacies in Pristina. The central pharmacy of Pristina has declared 200 kg of medical waste. Other pharmacies have also reported medical waste, such as Agani Warehouse.\n\n\"For more information visit:\"\nKosovo Law on Waste\n\nFactsheet for Kosovo under UNSCR 1244/99\n\nThe continued impact of human activities on land causes land degradation, which is harmful for human and socio-economic environment. Since Pristina is the capital city of Kosovo, most of the population lives here. This means that land degradation issue is more present in the Pristina region; however, Pristina was always industrial-oriented city, with less agricultural land used for food cultivation. Land degradation happens because of the increased construction of settlements (unplanned constructions), road construction, industry (solid waste, surface mining), local and sanitary waste, erosion and uncontrolled exploitation of gravel.\n\nBelow are some facts for land usage in Pristina Municipality:\nConstructed Land: 2365.6 hectares or 30.45% of the total surface\n\nResidential Areas: 2011.58 hectares. It is characterized with individual residence 23.17%, with only 2.72% collective residence.\nEconomic Areas: 217.94 hectares or 2.81% of total constructed areas belongs to the industrial development.\n\nEducational Institutions: occupy a surface of 34.7 hectares or 0.45% of the constructed area\n\nHealth Institutions: occupy a surface of 33.9 hectares or 0.44% of the constructed area\n\nAdministrative Institutions: occupy a surface of 50.08 hectares or 0.64% of the constructed area\n\nGreen Areas: 5023.05 hectares or 64.04% of the total area\n\nSpecific Areas: 149.11 hectares or 1.92% of the total area\n\nTransport and Traffic Areas: 231 hectares or 2.97% of total area\n\nOwnership in Pristina Municipality is divided into two groups:\n\nPublic Ownership: 2695.21 hectares or 34.7%\n\nPrivate Ownership: 5073.48 hectares or 65.3%\n\nPristina has 9155 hectares of agricultural land, from which 8508 hectares have the system of irrigation on them. Since Pristina has a much polluted air, then it tis thought that this emission of pollution be transferred from air to land. This happens through rainfall that dissolves air pollution and deposits it into the land. \nOne of the most common ways of agricultural land degradation is the transformation of agricultural land into industrial land. According to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Development, in the period from 1998-2006 1 hectare of land in Pristina was transformed. However, the construction of Pristina started the last five years, with more people building apartments in each neighborhood of Pristina. \nThe problem of land degradation is that it happens in both ways: through the permition of the municipality of Pristina, but also without the permission of the municipality of Pristina. According to the director of the agricultural association in Kosovo, land degradation is happening each day more and more, and the most dangerous zones to remain without agricultural land are lands between Pristina and Skopje highway.\n\nSpatial planning in Pristina is very important, given the enormous construction plans happening currently. The construction of collective apartments has started in Pristina the last five years, and some of them follow the directives for constructing from Pristina Municipality, but others do not. However, when dealing with spatial planning, it is very important to protect local zones from construction, especially parks that people use for recreational activities. One of the natural spatial areas protected from the municipality of Pristina is the national park \"Germia.\"\n\nThe regional park \"Germia\" is protected and monitored from the public enterprise \"Hortikultura.\" This park is protected from construction, as well as because of its biodiversity in fauna and flora. Germia lies in the northern part of Pristina and it has a surface of 62 km2. \nThe boundaries of Germia starts with vineyards fields in the west, continues with Miredita hills in the east toward the Hajvalia mining and Gracanica River. In the South it continues with Busise River, and in the east it ends up with Badovci River. Besides of its geographic boundaries, Germia is protected because of its diversity in flora and fauna. 610 types of vascular flora have been found in Germia separated into 82 families. 83 types of mushrooms have been found and 4 forest communities. \nIt is the only place of Pristina where the air pollution is lower, and most of people use it as a recreational place. 41.40.52 hectares of Germia are under the protected zone, starting from the Germia Basis and continue with fields, children parks and toys, and sporting centers.\nThe status of Germia is a Protected Regional Park, including 1.126.01.00 hectares. Germia Park is evidenced as a protected zone in the international list of protected places.\n\n\"For more information visit:\"\nKosovo Law on Spatial Planning\n\nDuring 2011-2012 the Ministry of the Environment and Spatial Planning in Kosovo, has formulated the Strategy for the protection of the Environment in Pristina. Those strategies have been created for the future of Pristina environment in 2015-2022. Those strategies entail specific plans and EU standards that Pristina needs to fulfill by the end of year 2022. \nLocal Plans for Environmental Actions are mandatory for each municipality in Kosovo. In Pristina this plan has been approved and it only waits for the starting period of implementation. This plan has been taken in cooperation with the Swedish Agence for International Development. The municipality of Pristina is developing and implementing this plan for other municipalities as well. \n14 plans have been established for waste management in Pristina, according to the Kosovo Law for Waste. \n\"For more information visit:\"\nPristina WWTP Feasibility Study\n\n\"For more information visit:\"\nEU Twinning Project to Support the Environment Sector\n"}
{"id": "438948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=438948", "title": "Equation of time", "text": "Equation of time\n\nThe equation of time describes the discrepancy between two kinds of solar time. The word \"equation\" is used in the medieval sense of \"reconcile a difference\". The two times that differ are the \"apparent\" solar time, which directly tracks the diurnal motion of the Sun, and \"mean\" solar time, which tracks a theoretical mean Sun with noons 24 hours apart. Apparent solar time can be obtained by measurement of the current position (hour angle) of the Sun, as indicated (with limited accuracy) by a sundial. \"Mean\" solar time, for the same place, would be the time indicated by a steady clock set so that over the year its differences from apparent solar time would resolve to zero.\n\nThe equation of time is the east or west component of the analemma, a curve representing the angular offset of the Sun from its mean position on the celestial sphere as viewed from Earth. The equation of time values for each day of the year, compiled by astronomical observatories, were widely listed in almanacs and ephemerides.\n\nDuring a year the equation of time varies as shown on the graph; its change from one year to the next is slight. Apparent time, and the sundial, can be ahead (fast) by as much as 16 min 33 s (around 3 November), or behind (slow) by as much as 14 min 6 s (around 12 February). The equation of time has zeros near 15 April, 13 June, 1 September and 25 December. Ignoring very slow changes in the Earth's orbit and rotation, these events are repeated at the same times every tropical year. However, due to the non-integer number of days in a year, these dates can vary by a day or so from year to year.\n\nThe graph of the equation of time is closely approximated by the sum of two sine curves, one with a period of a year and one with a period of half a year. The curves reflect two astronomical effects, each causing a different non-uniformity in the apparent daily motion of the Sun relative to the stars:\n\n\nThe equation of time is constant only for a planet with zero axial tilt and zero orbital eccentricity. On Mars the difference between sundial time and clock time can be as much as 50 minutes, due to the considerably greater eccentricity of its orbit. The planet Uranus, which has an extremely large axial tilt, has an equation of time that makes its days start and finish several hours earlier or later depending on where it is in its orbit.\n\nThere is no universally accepted definition of the sign of the equation of time. Some publications show it as positive when a sundial is ahead of a clock, as shown in the upper graph above; others when the clock is ahead of the sundial, as shown in the lower graph. In the English-speaking world, the former usage is the more common, but is not always followed. Anyone who makes use of a published table or graph should first check its sign usage. Often, there is a note or caption which explains it. Otherwise, the sign can be determined by knowing that, during the first three months of each year, the clock is ahead of the sundial. The mnemonic \"NYSS\" (pronounced \"nice\"), for \"new year, sundial slow\", can be useful. Some published tables avoid the ambiguity by not using signs, but by showing phrases such as \"sundial fast\" or \"sundial slow\" instead.\n\nIn this article, and others in English Wikipedia, a positive value of the equation of time implies that a sundial is ahead of a clock.\n\nThe phrase \"equation of time\" is derived from the medieval Latin \"aequātiō diērum\", meaning \"equation of days\" or \"difference of days\". The word \"aequātiō\" was widely used in early astronomy to tabulate the difference between an observed value and the expected value (as in the equation of centre, the equation of the equinoxes, the equation of the epicycle). The difference between apparent solar time and mean time was recognized by astronomers since antiquity, but prior to the invention of accurate mechanical clocks in the mid-17th century, sundials were the only reliable timepieces, and apparent solar time was the generally accepted standard. Mean time did not supplant apparent time in national almanacs and ephemerides until the early 19th century. \n\nA description of apparent and mean time was given by Nevil Maskelyne in the \"Nautical Almanac\" for 1767: \"Apparent Time is that deduced immediately from the Sun, whether from the Observation of his passing the Meridian, or from his observed Rising or Setting. This Time is different from that shewn by Clocks and Watches well regulated at Land, which is called equated or mean Time.\" He went on to say that, at sea, the apparent time found from observation of the Sun must be corrected by the equation of time, if the observer requires the mean time.\n\nThe right time was originally considered to be that which was shown by a sundial. When good mechanical clocks were introduced, they agreed with sundials only near four dates each year, so the equation of time was used to \"correct\" their readings to obtain sundial time. Some clocks, called equation clocks, included an internal mechanism to perform this \"correction\". Later, as clocks became the dominant good timepieces, uncorrected clock time, i.e., \"mean time\", became the accepted standard. The readings of sundials, when they were used, were then, and often still are, corrected with the equation of time, used in the reverse direction from previously, to obtain clock time. Many sundials, therefore, have tables or graphs of the equation of time engraved on them to allow the user to make this correction.\n\nThe equation of time was used historically to set clocks. Between the invention of accurate clocks in 1656 and the advent of commercial time distribution services around 1900, there were three common land-based ways to set clocks. Firstly, in the unusual event of having an astronomer present, the sun's transit across the meridian (the moment the sun passed overhead) was noted, the clock was then set to noon and offset by the number of minutes given by the equation of time for that date. Secondly, and much more commonly, a sundial was read, a table of the equation of time (usually engraved on the dial) was consulted and the watch or clock set accordingly. These calculated the mean time, albeit local to a point of longitude. The third method did not use the equation of time; instead, it used stellar observations to give sidereal time, exploiting the relationship between sidereal time and mean solar time.\n\nOf course, the equation of time can still be used, when required, to obtain apparent solar time from clock time. Devices such as solar trackers, which move to keep pace with the Sun's movements in the sky, frequently do not include sensors to determine the Sun's position. Instead, they are controlled by a clock mechanism, along with a mechanism that incorporates the equation of time to make the device keep pace with the Sun.\n\nThe irregular daily movement of the Sun was known by the Babylonians. Book III of Ptolemy's \"Almagest\" is primarily concerned with the Sun's anomaly, and he tabulated the equation of time in his \"Handy Tables\". Ptolemy discusses the correction needed to convert the meridian crossing of the Sun to mean solar time and takes into consideration the nonuniform motion of the Sun along the ecliptic and the meridian correction for the Sun's ecliptic longitude. He states the maximum correction is  time-degrees or of an hour (Book III, chapter 9). However he did not consider the effect to be relevant for most calculations since it was negligible for the slow-moving luminaries and only applied it for the fastest-moving luminary, the Moon.\n\nBased on Ptolemy's discussion in the Almagest, medieval Islamic astronomers such as al-Khwarizmi, al-Battani, Kushyar ibn Labban, Jamshīd al-Kāshī and others, made improvements to the solar tables and the value of obliquity, and published tables of the equation of time (\"taʿdīl al-ayyām bi layālayhā\") in their \"zij\" (astronomical tables).\n\nAfter that, the next substantial improvement in the computation didn't come until Kepler's final upset of the geocentric astronomy of the ancients. Gerald J. Toomer uses the medieval term \"equation\" from the Latin \"aequātiō\", for Ptolemy's difference between the mean solar time and the apparent solar time. Johannes Kepler's definition of the equation is \"the difference between the number of degrees and minutes of the mean anomaly and the degrees and minutes of the corrected anomaly.\"\n\nUntil the invention of the pendulum and the development of reliable clocks during the 17th century, the equation of time as defined by Ptolemy remained a curiosity, of importance only to astronomers. However, when mechanical clocks started to take over timekeeping from sundials, which had served humanity for centuries, the difference between clock time and sundial time became an issue for everyday life. Apparent solar time is the time indicated by the Sun on a sundial (or measured by its transit over a preferred local meridian), while \"mean solar time\" is the average as indicated by well-regulated clocks. The first tables to give the equation of time in an essentially correct way were published in 1665 by Christiaan Huygens. Huygens, following the tradition of Ptolemy and medieval astronomers in general, set his values for the equation of time so as to make all values positive throughout the year.\n\nAnother set of tables was published in 1672–73 by John Flamsteed, who later became the first Astronomer Royal of the new Royal Greenwich Observatory. These appear to have been the first essentially correct tables that gave today's meaning of Mean Time (rather than mean time based on the latest sunrise of the year as proposed by Huygens). Flamsteed adopted the convention of tabulating and naming the correction in the sense that it was to be applied to the apparent time to give mean time.\n\nThe equation of time, correctly based on the two major components of the Sun's irregularity of apparent motion, was not generally adopted until after Flamsteed's tables of 1672–73, published with the posthumous edition of the works of Jeremiah Horrocks.\n\nRobert Hooke (1635–1703), who mathematically analyzed the universal joint, was the first to note that the geometry and mathematical description of the (non-secular) equation of time and the universal joint were identical, and proposed the use of a universal joint in the construction of a \"mechanical sundial\".\n\nThe corrections in Flamsteed's tables of 1672–1673 and 1680 gave mean time computed essentially correctly and without need for further offset. But the numerical values in tables of the equation of time have somewhat changed since then, owing to three factors:\nFrom 1767 to 1833, the British \"Nautical Almanac and Astronomical Ephemeris\" tabulated the equation of time in the sense 'mean minus apparent solar time'. Times in the Almanac were in apparent solar time, because time aboard ship was most often determined by observing the Sun. In the unusual case that the mean solar time of an observation was needed, one would apply the equation of time to \"apparent\" solar time. In the issues since 1834, all times have been in mean solar time, because by then the time aboard ship was increasingly often determined by marine chronometers. In the unusual case that the apparent solar time of an observation was needed, one would apply the equation of time to \"mean\" solar time, requiring all differences in the equation of time to have the opposite sign than before.\n\nAs the apparent daily movement of the Sun is one revolution per day, that is 360° every 24 hours, and the Sun itself appears as a disc of about 0.5° in the sky, simple sundials can be read to a maximum accuracy of about one minute. Since the equation of time has a range of about 33 minutes, the difference between sundial time and clock time cannot be ignored. In addition to the equation of time, one also has to apply corrections due to one's distance from the local time zone meridian and summer time, if any.\n\nThe tiny increase of the mean solar day due to the slowing down of the Earth's rotation, by about 2 ms per day per century, which currently accumulates up to about 1 second every year, is not taken into account in traditional definitions of the equation of time, as it is imperceptible at the accuracy level of sundials.\n\nThe Earth revolves around the Sun. As seen from Earth, the Sun appears to revolve once around the Earth through the background stars in one year. If the Earth orbited the Sun with a constant speed, in a circular orbit in a plane perpendicular to the Earth's axis, then the Sun would culminate every day at exactly the same time, and be a perfect time keeper (except for the very small effect of the slowing rotation of the Earth). But the orbit of the Earth is an ellipse not centered on the Sun, and its speed varies between 30.287 and 29.291 km/s, according to Kepler's laws of planetary motion, and its angular speed also varies, and thus the Sun appears to move faster (relative to the background stars) at perihelion (currently around 3 January) and slower at aphelion a half year later. \n\nAt these extreme points this effect varies the apparent solar day by 7.9 s/day from its mean. Consequently, the smaller daily differences on other days in speed are cumulative until these points, reflecting how the planet accelerates and decelerates compared to the mean. As a result, the eccentricity of the Earth's orbit contributes a periodic variation which is (in the first-order approximation) a sine wave with an amplitude of 7.66 min and a period of one year to the equation of time. The zero points are reached at perihelion (at the beginning of January) and aphelion (beginning of July); the extreme values are in early April (negative) and early October (positive).\n\nHowever, even if the Earth's orbit were circular, the perceived motion of the Sun along our celestial equator would still not be uniform. This is a consequence of the tilt of the Earth's rotational axis with respect to the plane of its orbit, or equivalently, the tilt of the ecliptic (the path Sun appears to take in the celestial sphere) with respect to the celestial equator. The projection of this motion onto our celestial equator, along which \"clock time\" is measured, is a maximum at the solstices, when the yearly movement of the Sun is parallel to the equator (causing amplification of perceived speed) and yields mainly a change in right ascension. It is a minimum at the equinoxes, when the Sun's apparent motion is more sloped and yields more change in declination, leaving less for the component in right ascension, which is the only component that affects the duration of the solar day. A practical illustration of obliquity is that the daily shift of the shadow cast by the Sun in a sundial even on the equator is smaller close to the solstices and greater close to the equinoxes. If this effect operated alone, then days would be up to 24 hours and 20.3 seconds long (measured solar noon to solar noon) near the solstices, and as much as 20.3 seconds shorter than 24 hours near the equinoxes.\n\nIn the figure on the right, we can see the monthly variation of the apparent slope of the plane of the ecliptic at solar midday as seen from Earth. This variation is due to the apparent precession of the rotating Earth through the year, as seen from the Sun at solar midday.\n\nIn terms of the equation of time, the inclination of the ecliptic results in the contribution of a sine wave variation with an amplitude of 9.87 minutes and a period of a half year to the equation of time. The zero points of this sine wave are reached at the equinoxes and solstices, while the extrema are at the beginning of February and August (negative) and the beginning of May and November (positive).\n\nThe two above mentioned factors have different wavelengths, amplitudes and phases, so their combined contribution is an irregular wave. At epoch 2000 these are the values (in minutes and seconds with UT dates):\n\nThe exact shape of the equation of time curve and the associated analemma slowly change over the centuries, due to secular variations in both eccentricity and obliquity. At this moment both are slowly decreasing, but they increase and decrease over a timescale of hundreds of thousands of years. If and when the Earth's orbital eccentricity (now about 0.0167 and slowly decreasing) reaches 0.047, the eccentricity effect may in some circumstances overshadow the obliquity effect, leaving the equation of time curve with only one maximum and minimum per year, as is the case on Mars.\n\nOn shorter timescales (thousands of years) the shifts in the dates of equinox and perihelion will be more important. The former is caused by precession, and shifts the equinox backwards compared to the stars. But it can be ignored in the current discussion as our Gregorian calendar is constructed in such a way as to keep the vernal equinox date at 21 March (at least at sufficient accuracy for our aim here). The shift of the perihelion is forwards, about 1.7 days every century. In 1246 the perihelion occurred on 22 December, the day of the solstice, so the two contributing waves had common zero points and the equation of time curve was symmetrical: in \"Astronomical Algorithms\" Meeus gives February and November extrema of 15 m 39 s and May and July ones of 4 m 58 s. Before then the February minimum was larger than the November maximum, and the May maximum larger than the July minimum. In fact, in years before −1900 (1901 BCE) the May maximum was larger than the November maximum. In the year −2000 (2001 BCE) the May maximum was +12 minutes and a couple seconds while the November maximum was just less than 10 minutes. The secular change is evident when one compares a current graph of the equation of time (see below) with one from 2000 years ago, e.g., one constructed from the data of Ptolemy.\n\nIf the gnomon (the shadow-casting object) is not an edge but a point (e.g., a hole in a plate), the shadow (or spot of light) will trace out a curve during the course of a day. If the shadow is cast on a plane surface, this curve will be a conic section (usually a hyperbola), since the circle of the Sun's motion together with the gnomon point define a cone. At the spring and fall equinoxes, the cone degenerates into a plane and the hyperbola into a line. With a different hyperbola for each day, hour marks can be put on each hyperbola which include any necessary corrections. Unfortunately, each hyperbola corresponds to two different days, one in each half of the year, and these two days will require different corrections. A convenient compromise is to draw the line for the \"mean time\" and add a curve showing the exact position of the shadow points at noon during the course of the year. This curve will take the form of a figure eight and is known as an analemma. By comparing the analemma to the mean noon line, the amount of correction to be applied generally on that day can be determined.\n\nThe equation of time is used not only in connection with sundials and similar devices, but also for many applications of solar energy. Machines such as solar trackers and heliostats have to move in ways that are influenced by the equation of time.\n\nCivil time is the local mean time for a meridian that often passes near the center of the time zone, and may possibly be further altered by daylight saving time. When the apparent solar time that corresponds to a given civil time is to be found, the difference in longitude between the site of interest and the time zone meridian, daylight saving time, and the equation of time must all be considered.\n\nThe equation of time is obtained from a published table, or a graph. For dates in the past such tables are produced from historical measurements, or by calculation; for future dates, of course, tables can only be calculated. In devices such as computer-controlled heliostats the computer is often programmed to calculate the equation of time. The calculation can be numerical or analytical. The former are based on numerical integration of the differential equations of motion, including all significant gravitational and relativistic effects. The results are accurate to better than 1 second and are the basis for modern almanac data. The latter are based on a solution that includes only the gravitational interaction between the Sun and Earth, simpler than but not as accurate as the former. Its accuracy can be improved by including small corrections.\n\nThe following discussion describes a reasonably accurate (agreeing with Almanac data to within 3 seconds over a wide range of years) algorithm for the equation of time that is well known to astronomers. It also shows how to obtain a simple approximate formula (accurate to within 1 minute over a large time interval), that can be easily evaluated with a calculator and provides the simple explanation of the phenomenon that was used previously in this article.\n\nThe precise definition of the equation of time is\nThe quantities occurring in this equation are\n\nHere time and angle are quantities that are related by factors such as: 2 radians = 360° = 1 day = 24 hours. The difference, EOT, is measurable since GHA is an angle that can be measured and Universal Time, UT, is a scale for the measurement of time. The offset by = 180° = 12 hours from UT is needed because UT is zero at mean midnight while GMHA = 0 at mean noon. Both GHA and GMHA, like all physical angles, have a mathematical, but not a physical discontinuity at their respective (apparent and mean) noon. Despite the mathematical discontinuities of its components, EOT is defined as a continuous function by adding (or subtracting) 24 hours in the small time interval between the discontinuities in GHA and GMHA.\n\nAccording to the definitions of the angles on the celestial sphere (see hour angle) where:\n\nOn substituting into the equation of time, it is\nLike the formula for GHA above, one can write , where the last term is the right ascension of the mean Sun. The equation is often written in these terms as\nwhere . In this formulation a measurement or calculation of EOT at a certain value of time depends on a measurement or calculation of at that time. Both and vary from 0 to 24 hours during the course of a year. The former has a discontinuity at a time that depends on the value of UT, while the later has its at a slightly later time. As a consequence, when calculated this way EOT has two, artificial, discontinuities. They can both be removed by subtracting 24 hours from the value of EOT in the small time interval after the discontinuity in and before the one in . The resulting EOT is a continuous function of time.\n\nAnother definition, denoted to distinguish it from EOT, is\nHere , is the Greenwich mean sidereal time (the angle between the mean vernal equinox and the mean Sun in the plane of the equator). Therefore, GMST is an approximation to GAST (and is an approximation to EOT); eqeq is called the equation of the equinoxes and is due to the wobbling, or nutation of the Earth's axis of rotation about its precessional motion. Since the amplitude of the nutational motion is only about 1.2 s (18″ of longitude) the difference between EOT and can be ignored unless one is interested in subsecond accuracy.\n\nA third definition, denoted to distinguish it from EOT and , and now called the Equation of Ephemeris Time (prior to the distinction that is now made between EOT, , and the latter was known as the equation of time) is\nhere is the ecliptic longitude of the mean Sun (the angle from the mean vernal equinox to the mean Sun in the plane of the ecliptic).\n\nThe difference is 1.3 s from 1960 to 2040. Therefore, over this restricted range of years is an approximation to EOT whose error is in the range 0.1 to 2.5 s depending on the longitude correction in the equation of the equinoxes; for many purposes, for example correcting a sundial, this accuracy is more than good enough.\n\nThe right ascension, and hence the equation of time, can be calculated from Newton's two-body theory of celestial motion, in which the bodies (Earth and Sun) describe elliptical orbits about their common mass center. Using this theory, the equation of time becomes\nwhere the new angles that appear are\n\nTo complete the calculation three additional angles are required:\n\nAll these angles are shown in the figure on the right, which shows the celestial sphere and the Sun's elliptical orbit seen from the Earth (the same as the Earth's orbit seen from the Sun). In this figure is the obliquity, while is the eccentricity of the ellipse.\n\nNow given a value of , one can calculate by means of the following well-known procedure:\n\nFirst, given , calculate from Kepler's equation:\n\nAlthough this equation cannot be solved exactly in closed form, values of can be obtained from infinite (power or trigonometric) series, graphical, or numerical methods. Alternatively, note that for , , and by iteration:\nThis approximation can be improved, for small , by iterating again,\nand continued iteration produces successively higher order terms of the power series expansion in . For small values of (much less than 1) two or three terms of the series give a good approximation for ; the smaller , the better the approximation.\n\nNext, knowing , calculate the true anomaly from an elliptical orbit relation\n\nThe correct branch of the multiple valued function to use is the one that makes a continuous function of starting from . Thus for use , and for use . At the specific value for which the argument of is infinite, use . Here is the principal branch, ; the function that is returned by calculators and computer applications. Alternatively, this function can be expressed in terms of its Taylor series in , the first three terms of which are:\nFor small this approximation (or even just the first two terms) is a good one. Combining the approximation for with this one for produces\nThe relation is called the equation of the center; the expression written here is a second-order approximation in . For the small value of that characterises the Earth's orbit this gives a very good approximation for .\n\nNext, knowing , calculate from its definition:\nThe value of varies non-linearly with because the orbit is elliptical and not circular. From the approximation for :\n\nFinally, knowing calculate from a relation for the right triangle on the celestial sphere shown above\nNote that the quadrant of is the same as that of , therefore reduce to the range 0 to 2 and write\nwhere is 0 if is in quadrant 1, it is 1 if is in quadrants 2 or 3 and it is 2 if is in quadrant 4. For the values at which tan is infinite, .\n\nAlthough approximate values for can be obtained from truncated Taylor series like those for , it is more efficacious to use the equation\nwhere . Note that for , and iterating twice:\n\nThe equation of time is obtained by substituting the result of the right ascension calculation into an equation of time formula. Here is used; in part because small corrections (of the order of 1 second), that would justify using , are not included, and in part because the goal is to obtain a simple analytical expression. Using two term approximations for and , allows to be written as an explicit expression of two terms, which is designated because it is a first order approximation in and in .\nThis equation was first derived by Milne, who wrote it in terms of . The numerical values written here result from using the orbital parameter values, = , = ° =  radians, and = ° =  radians that correspond to the epoch 1 January 2000 at 12 noon UT1. When evaluating the numerical expression for as given above, a calculator must be in radian mode to obtain correct values because the value of in the argument of the second term is written there in radians. Higher order approximations can also be written, but they necessarily have more terms. For example, the second order approximation in both and consists of five terms\nThis approximation has the potential for high accuracy, however, in order to achieve it over a wide range of years, the parameters , , and must be allowed to vary with time. This creates additional calculational complications. Other approximations have been proposed, for example, which uses the first order equation of the center but no other approximation to determine , and which uses the second order equation of the center.\n\nThe time variable, , can be written either in terms of , the number of days past perihelion, or , the number of days past a specific date and time (epoch):\nHere is the value of at the chosen date and time. For the values given here, in radians, is that measured for the actual Sun at the epoch, 1 January 2000 at 12 noon UT1, and is the number of days past that epoch. At periapsis , so solving gives = . This puts the periapsis on 4 January 2000 at 00:11:41 while the actual periapsis is, according to results from the \"Multiyear Interactive Computer Almanac\" (abbreviated as MICA), on 3 January 2000 at 05:17:30. This large discrepancy happens because the difference between the orbital radius at the two locations is only 1 part in a million; in other words, radius is a very weak function of time near periapsis. As a practical matter this means that one cannot get a highly accurate result for the equation of time by using and adding the actual periapsis date for a given year. However, high accuracy can be achieved by using the formulation in terms of .\n\nWhen , \"M\" is greater than 2 and one must subtract a multiple of 2 (that depends on the year) from it to bring it into the range 0 to 2. Likewise for years prior to 2000 one must add multiples of 2. For example, for the year 2010, varies from on 1 January at noon to on 31 December at noon, the corresponding values are and and are reduced to the range 0 to 2 by subtracting 10 and 11 times 2 respectively. One can always write , where is the number of days from the epoch to noon on 1 January of the desired year, and (365 if the calculation is for a leap year).\n\nThe result of the computations is usually given as either a set of tabular values, or a graph of the equation of time as a function of . A comparison of plots of , , and results from MICA all for the year 2000 is shown in the figure on the right. The plot of is seen to be close to the results produced by MICA, the absolute error, , is less than 1 minute throughout the year; its largest value is 43.2 seconds and occurs on day 276 (3 October). The plot of is indistinguishable from the results of MICA, the largest absolute error between the two is 2.46 s on day 324 (20 November).\n\nFor the choice of the appropriate branch of the relation with respect to function continuity a modified version of the arctangent function is helpful. It brings in previous knowledge about the expected value by a parameter. The modified arctangent function is defined as:\nIt produces a value that is as close to as possible. The function rounds to the nearest integer.\n\nApplying this yields:\nThe parameter arranges here to set to the zero nearest value which is the desired one.\n\nThe difference between the MICA and results was checked every 5 years over the range from 1960 to 2040. In every instance the maximum absolute error was less than 3 s; the largest difference, 2.91 s, occurred on 22 May 1965 (day 141). However, in order to achieve this level of accuracy over this range of years it is necessary to account for the secular change in the orbital parameters with time. The equations that describe this variation are:\nAccording to these relations, in 100 years ( = ), increases by about 0.5% (1.7°), decreases by about 0.25%, and decreases by about 0.05%.\n\nAs a result, the number of calculations required for any of the higher-order approximations of the equation of time requires a computer to complete them, if one wants to achieve their inherent accuracy over a wide range of time. In this event it is no more difficult to evaluate using a computer than any of its approximations.\n\nIn all this note that as written above is easy to evaluate, even with a calculator, is accurate enough (better than 1 minute over the 80-year range) for correcting sundials, and has the nice physical explanation as the sum of two terms, one due to obliquity and the other to eccentricity that was used previously in the article. This is not true either for considered as a function of or for any of its higher-order approximations.\n\nAnother calculation of the equation of time can be done as follows. Angles are in degrees; the conventional order of operations applies.\n\nThe expression means the nearest integer to . On a computer, it can be programmed, for example, as . It is 0, 1, or 2 at different times of the year. Subtracting it leaves a small positive or negative fractional number of half turns, which is multiplied by 720, the number of minutes (12 hours) that the Earth takes to rotate one half turn relative to the Sun, to get the equation of time.\n\nCompared with published values, this calculation has a root mean square error of only 3.7 s. The greatest error is 6.0 s. This is much more accurate than the approximation described above, but not as accurate as the elaborate calculation.\n\nThe value of in the above calculation is an accurate value for the Sun's ecliptic longitude (shifted by 90°), so the solar declination becomes readily available:\n\nwhich is accurate to within a fraction of a degree.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51073598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51073598", "title": "Fluvio-thermal erosion", "text": "Fluvio-thermal erosion\n\nIn geomorphology fluvio-thermal erosion is the combined mechanical and thermal erosion of an unfrozen river or stream against ice-rich soils and sediments. The erosional process includes the thawing of ice sediments by a strong water flow and once the surface is unfrozen, mechanical erosion occurs only if hydraulic forces are powerful enough to incise the riverbank material. This kind of erosion sometimes causes the banks to collapse into the river, and when this occurs collapses are commonly controlled by ice wedges. Rivers where this process has been observed include the Lena, the Colville River delta, and the Yukon River.\n\nThe Yakutia region in Central Siberia, where the Lena River is located, is an exceptional point of interest to study this type of erosion based on its record low temperatures and extreme thickness of permafrost. During the winter when water level is low, a thick sheet of ice forms on top of the Lena River, that is sometimes as much as 2m thick. Seasonal floods caused by rapid snowmelt and irregular storms then break the ice apart in the summer, exposing the banks of the river to the power of erosion. There are two stages to this process: the first is the breakup of the ice and the second is the flooding. Over the course of just a few days in May or June, water discharge can increase by 10x its velocity. The force of the water causes the ice sitting on top of the river to break apart, and these broken pieces are thrust up onto the riverbanks, sometimes forming an ice barrier that as high as 10m tall that will protect the banks from erosion for a short time. However, as the flood continues, the warmth and mechanical energy from the water melts the ice barrier, giving way for the fluvio-thermal erosion of the frozen riverbanks. For the Lena, the banks are observed to retreat approximately 40m per year.\n\nBased on lab models carried out in a cold room, high water temperature, ice temperature, and discharge are shown to be the main contributors of thermal erosion, whereas high ice content in the soil is shown to slow down the thermal erosion process. Melting of the ice within a porous material reduces the strength of the material, rendering it easily breakable and removable. During the melting period of a periglacial river in the summer, due to a relatively high water discharge, the unfrozen sediments are weathered away. In conclusion, water discharge in permanent contact with permafrost banks creates a combination of thermal and mechanical erosion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3175680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3175680", "title": "Generalist and specialist species", "text": "Generalist and specialist species\n\nA generalist species is able to thrive in a wide variety of environmental conditions and can make use of a variety of different resources (for example, a heterotroph with a varied diet). A specialist species can thrive only in a narrow range of environmental conditions or has a limited diet. Most organisms do not all fit neatly into either group, however. Some species are highly specialized (the most extreme case being monophagy), others less so, and some can tolerate many different environments. In other words, there is a continuum from highly-specialized to broadly-generalist species.\n\nOmnivores are usually generalists. Herbivores are often specialists, but those that eat a variety of plants may be considered generalists. A well-known example of a specialist animal is the koala, which subsists almost entirely on eucalyptus leaves. The raccoon is a generalist because it has a natural range that includes most of North and Central America, and it is omnivorous, eating berries, insects, butterflies (Hackberry Emperor, for example), eggs and small animals. Monophagous organisms feed exclusively, or nearly so, on a single other species.\n\nThe distinction between generalists and specialists is not limited to animals. For example, some plants require a narrow range of temperatures, soil conditions and precipitation to survive while others can tolerate a broader range of conditions. A cactus could be considered a specialist species. It will die during winters at high latitudes or if it receives too much water.\n\nWhen body weight is controlled for, specialist feeders such as insectivores and frugivores have larger home ranges than generalists like some folivores (leaf eaters). Because their food source is less abundant, they need a bigger area for foraging. An example comes from the research of Tim Clutton-Brock, who found that the black and white colobus, a folivore generalist, needs a home range of only 15ha. On the other hand, the more specialized red colobus monkey has a home range of 70 ha, which it requires to find patchy shoots, flowers and fruit.\n\nWhen environmental conditions change, generalists are able to adapt, but specialists tend to fall victim to extinction much more easily. For example, if a species of fish were to go extinct, any specialist parasites would also face extinction. On the other hand, a species with a highly specialized ecological niche is more effective at competing with other organisms. For example, a fish and its parasites are in an evolutionary arms race, a form of co-evolution, in which the fish constantly develops defenses against the parasite, while the parasite in turn evolves adaptations to cope with the specific defenses of its host. This tends to drive the speciation of more specialized species provided conditions remain relatively stable. This involves niche partitioning as new species are formed, and biodiversity is increased.\n\n"}
{"id": "6903037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6903037", "title": "Jigawa ethanol programme", "text": "Jigawa ethanol programme\n\nThe Jigawa ethanol program is a program to produce ethanol from agricultural products in Jigawa, Nigeria. The ethanol programme was initiated by the Nigerian President, Olusegun Obasanjo, to process sugarcane into biofuel. Besides sugarcane, the Nigerian Government plans to start processing cassava as well.\n\n"}
{"id": "50221287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50221287", "title": "Lake Kovada National Park", "text": "Lake Kovada National Park\n\nLake Kovada National Park (), established on November 3, 1970, is a national park in southern Turkey. It is located in the Sütçüler-Eğirdir districts of Isparta Province.\n"}
{"id": "48610479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48610479", "title": "Lava stringer", "text": "Lava stringer\n\nA lava stringer is an elongated concentration of mostly talus-like basalt rock found along a hillside or the base of a cliff. Many stringers occur without cliffs. A stringer is identified by its lack of vegetative cover.\n"}
{"id": "17983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17983", "title": "Lethe", "text": "Lethe\n\nIn Greek mythology, Lethe (Greek: , \"Lḗthē\"; , ) was one of the five rivers of the underworld of Hades. Also known as the \"Ameles potamos\" (river of unmindfulness), the Lethe flowed around the cave of Hypnos and through the Underworld, where all those who drank from it experienced complete forgetfulness. Lethe was also the name of the Greek spirit of forgetfulness and oblivion, with whom the river was often identified.\n\nIn Classical Greek, the word lethe (λήθη) literally means \"oblivion\", \"forgetfulness\", or \"concealment\". It is related to the Greek word for \"truth\", \"aletheia\" (ἀλήθεια), which through the privative alpha literally means \"un-forgetfulness\" or \"un-concealment\".\n\nLethe, the river of forgetfulness, was one of the five rivers of the Greek underworld, the other four being Styx, Acheron (the river of sorrow), Cocytus (the river of lamentation) and Phlegethon (the river of fire). According to Statius, it bordered Elysium, the final resting place of the virtuous. Ovid wrote that the river flowed through the cave of Hypnos, god of sleep, where its murmuring would induce drowsiness.\n\nThe shades of the dead were required to drink the waters of the Lethe in order to forget their earthly life. In the \"Aeneid\", Virgil (VI.703-751) writes that it is only when the dead have had their memories erased by the Lethe that they may be reincarnated.\n\nLethe was also the name of the personification of forgetfulness and oblivion, with whom the river was often associated. Hesiod's \"Theogony\" identifies her as the daughter of Eris (\"strife\"), and the sister of Ponos (\"Hardship\"), Limos (\"Starvation\"), Algea (\"Pains\"), Hysminai (\"Battles\"), Makhai (\"Wars\"), Phonoi (\"Murders\"), Androktasiai (\"Manslaughters\"), Neikea (\"Quarrels\"), Pseudea (\"Lies\"), Logoi (\"Stories\"), Amphillogiai (\"Disputes\"), Dysnomia (\"Anarchy\"), Ate (\"Ruin\"), and Horkos (\"Oath\").\n\nSome ancient Greeks believed that souls were made to drink from the river before being reincarnated, so they would not remember their past lives. The Myth of Er in Book X of Plato's \"Republic\" tells of the dead arriving at a barren waste called the \"plain of Lethe\", through which the river \"Ameles\" (\"careless\") runs. \"Of this they were all obliged to drink a certain quantity,\" Plato wrote, \"and those who were not saved by wisdom drank more than was necessary; and each one as he drank forgot all things.\" A few mystery religions taught the existence of another river, the Mnemosyne; those who drank from the Mnemosyne would remember everything and attain omniscience. Initiates were taught that they would receive a choice of rivers to drink from after death, and to drink from Mnemosyne instead of Lethe.\n\nThese two rivers are attested in several verse inscriptions on gold plates dating to the 4th century BC and onward, found at Thurii in Southern Italy and elsewhere throughout the Greek world. There were rivers of Lethe and Mnemosyne at the oracular shrine of Trophonius in Boeotia, from which worshippers would drink before making oracular consultations with the god.\n\nMore recently, Martin Heidegger used \"lēthē\" to symbolize the \"concealment of Being\" or \"forgetting of Being\" that he saw as a major problem of modern philosophy. Examples are found in his books on Nietzsche (Vol 1, p. 194) and on Parmenides.\n\nMany ancient Greek poems mention or describe Lethe. The river is also referenced in more recent novels and poetry. Simonides of Ceos, an ancient Greek lyrical poet, references Lethe in the sixty-seventh fragment of one of his poems. Publius Ovidius Naso, known as Ovid, in his description of the Underworld in his \"Metamorphoses,\" includes a description of Lethe as a stream that puts people to sleep. Aeneas, the protagonist of Virgil's epic Latin poem, \"Aeneid\", travels to Lethe to meet the ghost of his father in Book VI of the poem.\n\n\"\"The souls that throng the flood \"\n\n\"Are those to whom, by fate, are other bodies ow'd:\"\n\n\"In Lethe's lake they long oblivion taste,\"\n\n\"Of future life secure, forgetful of the past.\"\"\n\nVirgil also writes about Lethe in his didactic hexameter poem, the \"Georgics\".\n\nIn the \"Purgatorio\", the second \"cantica\" of Dante Alighieri's \"Divine Comedy\", the Lethe is located in the Earthly Paradise atop the Mountain of Purgatory. Dante, held in the arms of Matilda, is immersed in the Lethe so that he may wipe out all memory of sin (\"Purg\". XXXI). After being washed in the Lethe, penitents are washed in the Eunoe, a river of Dante's own invention. The Lethe is also mentioned in the \"Inferno\", the first part of the \"Comedy\", as flowing down to Hell from Purgatory to be frozen in the ice around Satan, \"the last lost vestiges of the sins of the saved\" (\"Inf.\" XXXIV.130).\n\nIn his first speech in \"Paradise Lost\", Satan describes how \"The associates and copartners of our loss, Lie thus astonished on \"the oblivious pool\"\", referencing Lethe.\n\nAmongst authors in Antiquity, the tiny Lima river between Norte Region, Portugal and Galicia, Spain was said to have the same properties of memory loss as the legendary Lethe River, being mistaken for it. In 138 BCE, the Roman general Decimus Junius Brutus Callaicus sought to dispose of the myth, as it impeded his military campaigns in the area. He was said to have crossed the Lima and then called his soldiers from the other side, one by one, by name. The soldiers, astonished that their general remembered their names, crossed the river as well without fear. This act proved that the Lima was not as dangerous as the local myths described.\n\nIn Cádiz, Spain, the river Guadalete was originally named \"Lethe\" by local Greek and Phoenician colonists who, about to go to war, solved instead their differences by diplomacy and named the river Lethe to forever forget their former differences. When the Arabs conquered the region much later, their name for the river became Guadalete (\"River Lethe\" in Arabic).\n\nIn Alaska, a river which runs through the Valley of Ten Thousand Smokes is called the River Lethe. It is located within the Katmai National Park and Preserve in southwest Alaska.\n\n"}
{"id": "5067412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5067412", "title": "List of Nepenthes natural hybrids", "text": "List of Nepenthes natural hybrids\n\nThis list of \"Nepenthes\" natural hybrids is a comprehensive listing of all recorded natural hybrids involving species of the carnivorous plant genus \"Nepenthes\". Hybrids that are not endemic to a given region are marked with an asterisk.\n\n\"Nepenthes\" natural hybrids recorded from Borneo.\n\n\nEndemic species with no known natural hybrids:\n\n\"Nepenthes hurrelliana\" and \"N. murudensis\" are of putative hybrid origin, but are considered species by most taxonomists, as they form stable, fertile populations independent of their original parent species. The same could be said for stable hybrids such as \"N × kinabaluensis\". Indeed, species status has been proposed for this taxon in the past.\n\n\"Nepenthes\" natural hybrids recorded from Sumatra.\n\n\nEndemic species with no known natural hybrids:\n\n\"Nepenthes\" natural hybrids recorded from the Philippines. The \"N. alata\" hybrids listed below involve \"N. alata\" in the broad sense (\"sensu lato\"); this polymorphic taxon has recently been split into a large number of daughter species that now form the so-called \"\"N. alata\" group\".\n\n\nIn addition, certain plants from Mount Hamiguitan are likely to represent crosses involving \"N. hamiguitanensis\", \"N. justinae\" (previously identified as \"N. mindanaoensis\"), \"N. micramphora\", and \"N. peltata\".\n\nEndemic species with no known natural hybrids:\n\n\n\"Nepenthes petiolata\" may itself have evolved from a cross between \"N. alata\" and \"N. truncata\". It has been suggested that \"N. extincta\" might represent a natural hybrid between \"N. merrilliana\" and \"N. mindanaoensis\", as both of these species grow near the type locality of \"N. extincta\" and share many morphological features with it.\n\nPlants from Mount Hamiguitan that were originally thought to represent the natural hybrid \"N. micramphora\" × \"N. peltata\" are now recognised as belonging to a distinct species of possible hybridogenic origin, \"N. hamiguitanensis\".\n\n\"Nepenthes\" natural hybrids recorded from Peninsular Malaysia and Singapore.\n\n\nTwo natural hybrids have been recorded from Singapore: \"N. × hookeriana\" and \"N. × trichocarpa\". As such, all three species from Singapore are known to hybridise.\n\n\"Nepenthes\" natural hybrids recorded from Sulawesi.\n\n\nEndemic species with no known natural hybrids:\n\n\"Nepenthes\" natural hybrids recorded from Indochina. For the purpose of this list, the area encompasses Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar, Thailand, and Vietnam.\n\n\nIn addition, infraspecific hybrids between \"N. mirabilis\" var. \"globosa\" and \"N. mirabilis\" var. \"mirabilis\" are known to occur.\n\nEndemic species with no known natural hybrids:\n\n\"Nepenthes\" natural hybrids recorded from New Guinea, the Maluku Islands, and surrounding islands.\n\n\nEndemic species with no known natural hybrids:\n\n\"Nepenthes\" natural hybrids recorded from Australia. \n\nComplex hybrids involving all three species are also common.\n\nAll three species from Australia are known to hybridise.\n\nThere are six additional species endemic to areas other than those listed above. These are:\n\n\nOf these, the only species that could conceivably hybridise in the wild are \"N. madagascariensis\" and \"N. masoalensis\". Although the ranges of the two species used to meet near Cape Masoala, no natural hybrids have ever been recorded.\n\n"}
{"id": "48481128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48481128", "title": "List of Udubidae species", "text": "List of Udubidae species\n\nThis page lists all described species of the spider family Udubidae according to the World Spider Catalog, Version 16.5, . The type species of each genus is marked .\n\nThe four genera of Udubidae plus \"Zorocrates\" formerly made up the family Zorocratidae.\n\n\"Campostichomma\" \n\n\"Raecius\" \n\n\"Uduba\" \n\n\"Zorodictyna\" \n"}
{"id": "41430173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41430173", "title": "List of Venus flytrap cultivars", "text": "List of Venus flytrap cultivars\n\nVenus flytraps are by far the most commonly recognized and cultivated carnivorous plant. They are sold as houseplants and are often found at florists, hardware stores and supermarkets. During the past ten years or so large quantities of cultivars (cultivated varieties) have come into the market through tissue culture of selected genetic mutations. It is through tissue culture that great quantities of plants are raised for commercial markets.\n\nThe registered cultivars include (name of registrant in braces):\n\n\nThe names in the list above are all documented, registered and accepted by the International Carnivorous Plant Society, the International Cultivar Registration Authority for carnivorous plant cultivars.\n\nPublished but \"unregistered\" cultivar names include (name of nominant in braces):\n\n"}
{"id": "44181900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44181900", "title": "List of ecoregions in Thailand", "text": "List of ecoregions in Thailand\n\nThe following is a list of ecoregions in Thailand.\n\nTropical and subtropical moist broadleaf forests:\n\nTropical and subtropical dry broadleaf forests\n\nFreshwater ecoregions:\n\nMarine ecoregions:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41583251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41583251", "title": "List of power stations in Saudi Arabia", "text": "List of power stations in Saudi Arabia\n\nThis page lists all power stations in Saudi Arabia.\n\nOil-fired plants in Saudi Arabia.\n\n"}
{"id": "8591406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8591406", "title": "List of stars in Carina", "text": "List of stars in Carina\n\nThis is the list of notable stars in the constellation Carina, sorted by decreasing brightness.\n\nThis constellation's Bayer designations (Greek-letter star names) were given while it was still considered part of the constellation of Argo Navis. After Argo Navis was broken up into Carina, Vela, and Puppis, these Greek-letter designations were kept, so that Carina does not have a full complement of Greek-letter designations. For example, since Argo Navis's gamma star went to Vela, there is no Gamma Carinae.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34406826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34406826", "title": "List of weather services", "text": "List of weather services\n\nThis is a list of notable weather services.\n\nCriteria for inclusion:\n"}
{"id": "15402259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15402259", "title": "MAIFI", "text": "MAIFI\n\nThe Momentary Average Interruption Frequency Index (MAIFI) is a reliability indicator used by electric power utilities. MAIFI is the average number of momentary interruptions that a customer would experience during a given period (typically a year). Electric power utilities may define momentary interruptions differently, with some considering a momentary interruption to be an outage of less than 1 minute in duration while others may consider a momentary interruption to be an outage of less than 5 minutes in duration.\n\nMAIFI is calculated as\n\nformula_1\n\nMAIFI has tended to be less reported than other reliability indicators, such as SAIDI, SAIFI, and CAIDI. However, MAIFI is useful for tracking momentary power outages, or \"blinks,\" that can be hidden or misrepresented by an overall outage duration index like SAIDI or SAIFI.\n\nMomentary power outages are often caused by transient faults, such as lightning strikes or vegetation contacting a power line, and many utilities use reclosers to automatically restore power quickly after a transient fault has cleared.\n\nMAIFI is specific to the area ( power utility, state, region, county, power line, etc. ) because of the many variables that affect the measure: high/low lightning, number & type of trees, high/low winds, etc. Therefore, comparing MAIFI of one power utility to another is not valid and should not be used in this type of benchmarking. It also is difficult to compare this measure of reliability\nwithin a single utility. One year may have had an unusually high number of thunderstorms and thus skew any comparison to another year's MAIFI.\n\n"}
{"id": "22527736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22527736", "title": "Mesquite Bosque", "text": "Mesquite Bosque\n\nMesquite Bosque is a vegetative association within the Southwestern United States, under the Kuchler scheme of plant association categories.\n\nThe Mesquite Bosque association occurs in the Sonoran Desert, with mesquite (\"Prosopis\" spp.) dominating. In some cases, this plant association is along xeric portions of desert floodplains, bajadas, and arroyos.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35948073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35948073", "title": "Musaeus of Athens", "text": "Musaeus of Athens\n\nMusaeus of Athens (, \"Mousaios\") was a legendary polymath, philosopher, historian, prophet, seer, priest, poet, and musician, said to have been the founder of priestly poetry in Attica. He composed dedicatory and purificatory hymns and prose treatises, and oracular responses.\n\nHerodotus reports that, during the reign of Peisistratus at Athens, the scholar Onomacritus collected and arranged the oracles of Musaeus but inserted forgeries of his own devising, later detected by Lasus of Hermione. The mystic and oracular verses and customs of Attica, especially of Eleusis, are connected with his name. A \"Titanomachia\" and \"Theogonia\" are also attributed to him by Gottfried Kinkel.\n\nIn 450 BC, the playwright Euripides in his play \"Rhesus\" describes him thus, \"Musaeus, too, thy holy citizen, of all men most advanced in lore.\" In 380 BC, Plato says in his \"Ion\" that poets are inspired by Orpheus and Musaeus but the greater are inspired by Homer. In the \"Protagoras\", Plato says that Musaeus was a hierophant and a prophet. In the \"Apology\", Socrates says, \"What would not a man give if he might converse with Orpheus and Musaeus and Hesiod and Homer? Nay, if this be true, let me die again and again.\" According to Diodorus Siculus, Musaeus was the son of Orpheus, according to Tatian he was the disciple of Orpheus, but according to Diogenes Laertius he was the son of Eumolpus. Alexander Polyhistor, Clement of Alexandria and Eusebius say he was the teacher of Orpheus. Aristotle quotes him in Book VIII of his \"Politics\": \"Song is to mortals of all things the sweetest.\" According to Diogenes Laertius he died and was buried at Phalerum, with the epitaph: \"Musaeus, to his sire Eumolpus dear, in Phalerean soil lies buried here.\" According to Pausanias, he was buried on the Mouseion Hill, south-west of the Acropolis, where there was a statue dedicated to a Syrian. For this and other reasons, Artapanus of Alexandria, Alexander Polyhistor, Numenius of Apamea, and Eusebius identify Musaeus with Moses the Jewish lawbringer. Musaeus is singled out in Book 6 of \"The Aeneid\", as someone who the souls of Elysium particularly looked up to.\n\n"}
{"id": "8719606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8719606", "title": "NASDAQ OMX Commodities Europe", "text": "NASDAQ OMX Commodities Europe\n\nNASDAQ OMX Commodities Europe is a trade name of NASDAQ OMX Oslo ASA, the single financial energy market for Norway, Denmark, Sweden and Finland. Before 1 November 2010, it was known by the name Nord Pool (not to be confused with the physical energy exchange Nord Pool AS, former Nord Pool Spot). , Nord Pool was the largest power derivatives exchange and the second largest exchange in European Union emission allowances (EUAs) and global certified emission reductions (CERs) trading.\n\nIn 1991 the Parliament of Norway decided to deregulate the market for power trading. In 1993 Statnett Marked AS was established as an independent company. Nord Pool market was created in 1996 as a result of the establishment of common electricity market of Norway and Sweden. The name was changed to Nord Pool ASA. It was owned by the two national grid companies, Statnett in Norway (50%) and Svenska Kraftnät in Sweden (50%). Finland joined Nord Pool market area in 1998, Western Denmark in 1999 and Eastern Denmark in 2000.\n\nIn 2000, Nord Pool participated in establishing the Leipzig Power Exchange (now part of the European Energy Exchange). Nord Pool also supplied its technology to France's Powernext exchange. In 2002, spot market activities were transferred into a newly established company, Nord Pool Spot AS. In 2005, Nord Pool started trading and clearing of EU emission allowances, becoming the first exchange to expand its activities into this area.\n\nOn 21 December 2007, Nord Pool agreed to sell its two subsidiaries—Nord Pool Clearing, which deals with clearing transactions, and Nord Pool Consulting—to the global exchange operator NASDAQ OMX. On 17 March 2010, NASDAQ OMX announced it will acquire all shares of Nord Pool ASA. The deal does not include Nord Pool Spot AS, which will continue physical electricity market trading operations independently. The deal was approved by market regulators on 31 May 2010. On 1 November 2010, Nord Pool ASA changed its name to NASDAQ OMX Oslo ASA and introduced a trade name NASDAQ OMX Commodities Europe.\n\nNASDAQ OMX Commodities Europe provides a marketplace for financial trading in electrical power, and emission allowances and emission credits. It has its main office in Oslo with offices in Stockholm and Helsinki.\n\nThe NASDAQ OMX Commodities Europe market membership includes energy producers, energy intensive industries, large consumers, distributors, funds, investment companies, banks, brokers, utility companies and financial institutions. It has more than 420 members in total, including exchange members, clearing clients, members and representatives in 20 countries. The customer base for NASDAQ OMX Commodities Europe includes 400 members.\n\nNASDAQ OMX Commodities Europe provides a market place for the trade on derivative contracts in the financial market. Financial electricity contracts are used to guarantee prices and manage risk when trading power. NASDAQ OMX Commodities offers contracts of up to ten years' duration, with contracts for days, weeks, months, quarters and years. NASDAQ OMX Commodities Europe also trades EUAs.\n\n"}
{"id": "6963071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6963071", "title": "National parks of Austria", "text": "National parks of Austria\n\nAustria has seven protected areas known as national parks, six of them internationally accepted according to the IUCN standard. The first national park, Hohe Tauern, was established in 1981. Today the national parks of Austria have a combined area of 2,376 km², which is 2.8% of the country's total area. They include each of Austria's most important natural landscape types — alluvial forest, Alpine massif, Pannonian steppe and rocky valleys.\n\nFirst plans for the protection of the Hohe Tauern mountain range were evolved by Austrian Alpine Club, which in 1915-18 acquired large mountainous areas. However, the national park project was abandoned in the late 1930s and not resumed until 1971, when the federal states of Salzburg, Tyrol and Carinthia signed the Heiligenblut Agreement, followed by similar initiatives in Lower and Upper Austria.\n\nThe establishment of each national park took several years; as conflicts of use and the question of funding had to be resolved. The parks are managed by contracts between one or more of the federal states and the Federal Government, with the financing shared equally between the Austrian government and the respective province. The national park administrations offer more than 300 green jobs. The park centres provide the public with educational services on ecology and environmental protection, information and leisure activities. With about 400,000 visitors a year, they play an important role in Austrian tourism.\n\nOf the seven national parks, four are protecting Austrian Alpine regions and three are covering waters. The largest park by far is Hohe Tauern; at , it is also the largest national park in Central Europe. The Neusiedler See–Seewinkel and Thayatal national parks stretch across the border with Hungary and the Czech Republic respectively.\n\nAll of Austria's national parks meet IUCN Category II standards, with the exception of the Nock Mountains National Park, which had been classified as a Protected Landscape (Category V). In 2012, it was converted into the core zone of a UNESCO Biosphere Reserve.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42964044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42964044", "title": "OceanoScientific", "text": "OceanoScientific\n\nThe OceanoScientific Programme is a scientific process studying causes and consequences of climate change at the ocean - atmosphere interface.\n\nIn November 2006, Yvan Griboval creates the \"OceanoScientific Programme\" for SailingOne. The \"OceanoScientific Programme\" is the set of activities designed to enable the international scientific community and the IPCC to enrich their knowledge about the causes and consequences of climate change, through the repeated collection of quality data at the ocean - atmosphere interface (oceanographic and atmospheric), especially on sea routes subject to little or no scientific exploration, aboard all kind of vessels but especially sailing ships; guided by JCOMMOPS, the support centre of the Joint WMO - IOC Technical Commission for Oceanography and Marine Meteorology of the United Nations.\n\nIPCC, WMO and IOC are specialized agencies of the United Nations (UN).\n\nThe two main contractual partners of the \"OceanoScientific Programme\" from the start are the French research institutes IFREMER and Météo-France. The industrial partner of the \"OceanoScientific Programme\" is the German company SubCtech, headed and created by Stefan Marx, who created a \"p\"CO2 sensor. This sensor was compared to others on board the research vessel \"Polarstern\".\n\nSelf-made man with a scholarship in Rouen (France), Yvan Griboval has early married his passions for sailing and for media, combining the job of professional sportsman, as from 1975 and of journalist-reporter, as from 1979 in French media: L’Équipe, Agence France Presse, Voiles & Voiliers, France Télévision.\n\nYvan Griboval took part in the win of \"L’Esprit d’Équipe\" with Lionel Péan at the Whitbread 1985-86 (now the Volvo Ocean Race), the crewed race around the world.\n\nThen he put his experience and know-how at the service of companies as from 1987–88, to guide them in their event-driven communication processes based on the exploitation of the Yachting in general and the Sailing, of its competitions, of its champions.\n\nFounder and president of the company SailingOne ever since its inception (December 1994), he created the \"Trophée of Sailing Champions\" in 1990. As from its first edition, the French version of this event was named the \"Trophée Clairefontaine\" thanks to the partnership established in the spring 1990 with the eponymous papermaker group (Groupe des Papeteries de Clairefontaine). In November 2006, Yvan Griboval creates the \"OceanoScientific Programme\".\n\nAs from early 2007, Yvan Griboval creates the \"OceanoScientific System\", which is a component of the \"OceanoScientific Programme\" and the tool for \"OceanoScientific Campaigns\". This is a \"Plug & Play\" equipment for the automatic acquisition and transmission by satellite of at least twelve scientific (oceanographic and atmospheric) parameters - formatted according to the standards of UN agencies. The OSC System is a technological development without any equivalent anywhere in the world when it works for the first time, on 14 October 2009. It makes possible for scientists the access to a new fleet of vessels of opportunity: sailing boats especially dedicated to these scientific missions. A scientific publication was carried out after the first test-expedition in the French Revue de l’Electricité et de l’Electronique (REE), in November 2010.\n\nYvan Griboval initiates then the \"OceanoScientific Campaigns\", standing for the implementation of the \"OceanoScientific System\". It therefore involves the repeated collection of quality data at the ocean - atmosphere interface and their transmission to the oceanography and meteorology international platforms of the specialized agencies of the United Nations (UN). Data of \"OceanoScientific Campaigns\" are transmitted free of charge to the international scientific community considering its own criteria. They are integrated into the Global Ocean Observing System (GOOS), for example via WMO’s Global Telecommunication System (GTS). These observations contribute to improve meteorological and climatological forecasts in scarcely or not at all scientifically explored ocean areas.\n\nThe two first campaigns carried out are: The \"ARTIC MISSION 2012\" on the schooner \"La Louise\" in the Baffin Bay between 65° and 70° North; the 96-days \"ANTARCTIC MISSION 2013\", on the three-master \"Bark EUROPA\" (Netherlands) between 50° and 63° South, especially in the Drake Passage.\n\nStarted from Brest (France) on 28 November 2013, the \"OceanoScientific Campaign - ATLANTIC MISSION 2013 - 2014\", led on the 16-meter Navire A Voile d’Observation Scientifique de l’Environnement (NAVOSE) bearing the colours of the MEROCEANS foundation, came to an end in Monaco on 26 April 2014. In addition to the tests of the \"OceanoScientific System\" (OSC System) Version 3.0, a unique material collecting data of ten scientific parameters at the ocean - atmosphere interface, this 10,000 nautical miles (18,520 km) expedition enabled the deployment of drifting scientific materials in compliance with the requirements of JCOMMOPS, a UNESCO agency. In the meantime, the OSC System won the 2013 French-German Prize of Economy in the Environment category. As from now one, the scientific data collected by the OSC System will be transmitted to the CORIOLIS network. This Campaign was carried out in energy self-sufficiency, without any CO2 emission, thanks to the hydro generators installed on board.\n\n\nEarthzine - Fostering Earth Observation & Global Awareness \n\nICCIP - International Climate Change Information Programme\n\nMariners Weather Log - Published by the National Weather Service of the NOAA - April 2014\n"}
{"id": "51042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51042", "title": "Paleoclimatology", "text": "Paleoclimatology\n\nPaleoclimatology (in British spelling, palaeoclimatology) is the study of changes in climate taken on the scale of the entire history of Earth. It uses a variety of proxy methods from the Earth and life sciences to obtain data previously preserved within things such as rocks, sediments, ice sheets, tree rings, corals, shells, and microfossils. It then uses the records to determine the past states of the Earth's various climate regions and its atmospheric system. Studies of past changes in the environment and biodiversity often reflect on the current situation, specifically the impact of climate on mass extinctions and biotic recovery.\n\nThe scientific study field of paleoclimate began to form in the early 19th century, when discoveries about glaciations and natural changes in Earth's past climate helped to understand the greenhouse effect.The first observations which had a real scientific basis were probably those by John Hardcastle in New Zealand, in the 1880s. He noted that the loess deposits at Timaru in the South Island recorded changes in climate; he called the loess a 'climate register'.\n\nPaleoclimatologists employ a wide variety of techniques to deduce ancient climates.\n\nMountain glaciers and the polar ice caps/ice sheets provide much data in paleoclimatology. Ice-coring projects in the ice caps of Greenland and Antarctica have yielded data going back several hundred thousand years, over 800,000 years in the case of the EPICA project.\n\nClimatic information can be obtained through an understanding of changes in tree growth. Generally, trees respond to changes in climatic variables by speeding up or slowing down growth, which in turn is generally reflected by a greater or lesser thickness in growth rings. Different species, however, respond to changes in climatic variables in different ways. A tree-ring record is established by compiling information from many living trees in a specific area.\n\nOlder intact wood that has escaped decay can extend the time covered by the record by matching the ring depth changes to contemporary specimens. By using that method, some areas have tree-ring records dating back a few thousand years. Older wood not connected to a contemporary record can be dated generally with radiocarbon techniques. A tree-ring record can be used to produce information regarding precipitation, temperature, hydrology, and fire corresponding to a particular area.\n\nOn a longer time scale, geologists must refer to the sedimentary record for data.\n\n\n\nWithin climatic geomorphology one approach is to study relict landforms to infer ancient climates. Being often concerned about past climates climatic geomorphology is considered sometimes to be a theme of historical geology. Climatic geomorphology is of limited use to study recent (Quaternary, Holocene) large climate changes since there are seldom discernible in the geomorphological record.\n\nA multinational consortium, the European Project for Ice Coring in Antarctica (EPICA), has drilled an ice core in Dome C on the East Antarctic ice sheet and retrieved ice from roughly 800,000 years ago. The international ice core community has, under the auspices of International Partnerships in Ice Core Sciences (IPICS), defined a priority project to obtain the oldest possible ice core record from Antarctica, an ice core record reaching back to or towards 1.5 million years ago. The deep marine record, the source of most isotopic data, exists only on oceanic plates, which are eventually subducted: the oldest remaining material is old. Older sediments are also more prone to corruption by diagenesis. Resolution and confidence in the data decrease over time.\n\nKnowledge of precise climatic events decreases as the record goes back in time, but some notable climate events are known:\n\nThe first atmosphere would have consisted of gases in the solar nebula, primarily hydrogen. In addition, there would probably have been simple hydrides such as those now found in gas giants like Jupiter and Saturn, notably water vapor, methane, and ammonia. As the solar nebula dissipated, the gases would have escaped, partly driven off by the solar wind.\n\nThe next atmosphere, consisting largely of nitrogen, carbon dioxide, and inert gases, was produced by outgassing from volcanism, supplemented by gases produced during the late heavy bombardment of Earth by huge asteroids. A major part of carbon dioxide emissions were soon dissolved in water and built up carbonate sediments.\n\nWater-related sediments have been found dating from as early as 3.8 billion years ago. About 3.4 billion years ago, nitrogen was the major part of the then stable \"second atmosphere\". An influence of life has to be taken into account rather soon in the history of the atmosphere because hints of early life forms have been dated to as early as 3.5 billion years ago. The fact that it is not perfectly in line with the 30% lower solar radiance (compared to today) of the early Sun has been described as the \"faint young Sun paradox\".\n\nThe geological record, however, shows a continually relatively warm surface during the complete early temperature record of Earth with the exception of one cold glacial phase about 2.4 billion years ago. In the late Archaean eon, an oxygen-containing atmosphere began to develop, apparently from photosynthesizing cyanobacteria (see Great Oxygenation Event) which have been found as stromatolite fossils from 2.7 billion years ago. The early basic carbon isotopy (isotope ratio proportions) was very much in line with what is found today, suggesting that the fundamental features of the carbon cycle were established as early as 4 billion years ago.\n\nThe constant rearrangement of continents by plate tectonics influences the long-term evolution of the atmosphere by transferring carbon dioxide to and from large continental carbonate stores. Free oxygen did not exist in the atmosphere until about 2.4 billion years ago, during the Great Oxygenation Event, and its appearance is indicated by the end of the banded iron formations. Until then, any oxygen produced by photosynthesis was consumed by oxidation of reduced materials, notably iron. Molecules of free oxygen did not start to accumulate in the atmosphere until the rate of production of oxygen began to exceed the availability of reducing materials. That point was a shift from a reducing atmosphere to an oxidizing atmosphere. O showed major variations until reaching a steady state of more than 15% by the end of the Precambrian. The following time span was the Phanerozoic eon, during which oxygen-breathing metazoan life forms began to appear.\n\nThe amount of oxygen in the atmosphere has fluctuated over the last 600 million years, reaching a peak of 35% during the Carboniferous period, significantly higher than today's 21%. Two main processes govern changes in the atmosphere: plants use carbon dioxide from the atmosphere, releasing oxygen and the breakdown of pyrite and volcanic eruptions release sulfur into the atmosphere, which oxidizes and hence reduces the amount of oxygen in the atmosphere. However, volcanic eruptions also release carbon dioxide, which plants can convert to oxygen. The exact cause of the variation of the amount of oxygen in the atmosphere is not known. Periods with much oxygen in the atmosphere are associated with rapid development of animals. Today's atmosphere contains 21% oxygen, which is high enough for rapid development of animals.\n\n\nThe climate of the late Precambrian showed some major glaciation events spreading over much of the earth. At this time the continents were bunched up in the Rodinia supercontinent. Massive deposits of tillites and anomalous isotopic signatures are found, which gave rise to the Snowball Earth hypothesis. As the Proterozoic Eon drew to a close, the Earth started to warm up. By the dawn of the Cambrian and the Phanerozoic, life forms were abundant in the Cambrian explosion with average global temperatures of about 22 °C.\n\nMajor drivers for the preindustrial ages have been variations of the sun, volcanic ashes and exhalations, relative movements of the earth towards the sun, and tectonically induced effects as for major sea currents, watersheds, and ocean oscillations. In the early Phanerozoic, increased atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations have been linked to driving or amplifying increased global temperatures. Royer et al. 2004 found a climate sensitivity for the rest of the Phanerozoic which was calculated to be similar to today's modern range of values.\n\nThe difference in global mean temperatures between a fully glacial Earth and an ice free Earth is estimated at approximately 10 °C, though far larger changes would be observed at high latitudes and smaller ones at low latitudes. One requirement for the development of large scale ice sheets seems to be the arrangement of continental land masses at or near the poles. The constant rearrangement of continents by plate tectonics can also shape long-term climate evolution. However, the presence or absence of land masses at the poles is not sufficient to guarantee glaciations or exclude polar ice caps. Evidence exists of past warm periods in Earth's climate when polar land masses similar to Antarctica were home to deciduous forests rather than ice sheets.\n\nThe relatively warm local minimum between Jurassic and Cretaceous goes along with an increase of subduction and mid-ocean ridge volcanism due to the breakup of the Pangea supercontinent.\n\nSuperimposed on the long-term evolution between hot and cold climates have been many short-term fluctuations in climate similar to, and sometimes more severe than, the varying glacial and interglacial states of the present ice age. Some of the most severe fluctuations, such as the Paleocene-Eocene Thermal Maximum, may be related to rapid climate changes due to sudden collapses of natural methane clathrate reservoirs in the oceans.\n\nA similar, single event of induced severe climate change after a meteorite impact has been proposed as reason for the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event. Other major thresholds are the Permian-Triassic, and Ordovician-Silurian extinction events with various reasons suggested.\n\nThe Quaternary sub-era includes the current climate. There has been a cycle of ice ages for the past 2.2–2.1 million years (starting before the Quaternary in the late Neogene Period).\n\nNote in the graphic on the right the strong 120,000-year periodicity of the cycles, and the striking asymmetry of the curves. This asymmetry is believed to result from complex interactions of feedback mechanisms. It has been observed that ice ages deepen by progressive steps, but the recovery to interglacial conditions occurs in one big step.\n\nThe graph on the left shows the temperature change over the past 12,000 years, from various sources. The thick black curve is an average.\n\nThe climate forcing is the difference of radiant energy (sunlight) received by the Earth and the outgoing longwave radiation back to space. The radiative forcing is quantified based on the CO amount in the tropopause, in units of watts per square meter to the Earth's surface. Dependent on the radiative balance of incoming and outgoing energy, the Earth either warms up or cools down. Earth radiative balance originates from changes in solar insolation and the concentrations of greenhouse gases and aerosols. Climate change may be due to internal processes in Earth sphere's and/or following external forcings.\n\nThe Earth's climate system involves the study of the atmosphere, biosphere, cryosphere, hydrosphere, and lithosphere, and the sum of these processes from Earth sphere's is considered the processes affecting the climate. Greenhouse gases act as the internal forcing of the climate system. Particular interests in climate science and paleoclimatology focuses on the study of Earth climate sensitivity, in response to the sum of forcings.\n\nExamples:\n\n\nOn timescales of millions of years, the uplift of mountain ranges and subsequent weathering processes of rocks and soils and the subduction of tectonic plates, are an important part of the carbon cycle. The weathering sequesters CO, by the reaction of minerals with chemicals (especially silicate weathering with CO) and thereby removing CO from the atmosphere and reducing the radiative forcing. The opposite effect is volcanism, responsible for the natural greenhouse effect, by emitting CO into the atmosphere, thus affecting glaciation (Ice Age) cycles. James Hansen suggested that humans emit CO 10,000 times faster than natural processes have done in the past.\n\nIce sheet dynamics and continental positions (and linked vegetation changes) have been important factors in the long term evolution of the earth's climate. There is also a close correlation between CO and temperature, where CO has a strong control over global temperatures in Earth history.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44318365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44318365", "title": "Periglaciation", "text": "Periglaciation\n\nPeriglaciation (adjective: \"periglacial,\" also referring to places at the edges of glacial areas) describes geomorphic processes that result from seasonal thawing of snow in areas of permafrost, the runoff from which refreezes in ice wedges and other structures. \"Periglacial\" suggests an environment located on the margin of past glaciers. However, freeze and thaw cycles influence landscapes outside areas of past glaciation. Therefore, periglacial environments are anywhere that freezing and thawing modify the landscape in a significant manner.\n\nTundra is a common ecological community in periglacial areas.\n\nPeriglaciation became a distinct subject within the study of geology after Walery Łoziński, a Polish geologist, introduced the term in 1909. Łoziński drew upon the early work of Johan Gunnar Andersson. According to Alfred Jahn, his introduction of his work at the 1910 International Geological Congress held in Stockholm caused significant discussion. In the field trip to Svalbard that followed the congress participants were able to observe the phenomena reported by Łoziński, directly. Łoziński published his contribution to the congress in 1912. From 1950 to 1970, periglacial geomorphology developed chiefly as a subdiscipline of climatic geomorphology that was current in Europe at the time. The journal \"Biuletyn Peryglacjalny\", established in 1954 by Jan Dylik, was important for the consolidation of the discipline.\n\nAlbeit the definition of what a periglacial zone is not clear-cut, a conservative estimate is that a quarter of Earth's land surface has periglacial conditions. Beyond this quarter an additional quarter or fifth or Earth's land surface had periglacial conditions at some time during the Pleistocene. In the northern hemisphere larger swathes of northern Asia and northern North America are periglaciated. In Europe parts of Fennoscandia, Iceland, northern European Russia and Svalbard. In addition Alpine areas in the non-arctic northern hemisphere might also be subject to periglaciation. A major outlier in the northern hemisphere is the Tibetan Plateau that stands out by its size and low-latitude location. In the southern hemisphere parts of the Andes, the ice-free areas of Antarctica and the sub-Antarctic islands are periglaciated.\n\nSince Carl Troll introduced the concept of periglacial climate in 1944 there have various attempts to classify the diversity of periglacial climates. Hugh M. French’s classification recognizes six climate types existing in the present:\n\n\nPeriglaciation results in a variety of ground conditions but especially those involving irregular, mixed deposits created by ice wedges, solifluction, gelifluction, frost creep and rockfalls. Periglacial environments trend towards stable geomorphologies.\n\nOther landforms include:\n\nMany areas of periglaciation have relatively low precipitation—otherwise, they would be glaciated—and low evapotranspiration. which makes their average river discharge rates low. However, rivers flowing into the Arctic Ocean adjacent to northern Canada and Siberia are prone to erosion resulting from earlier thawing of snow pack in the upper, more southerly reaches of their drainage basins, which leads to flooding downstream, owing to obstructing river ice in the still-frozen, downstream parts of the rivers. When these ice dams melt or break open, the release of impounded water causes erosion.\n\n"}
{"id": "10285944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10285944", "title": "Princeton Ocean Model", "text": "Princeton Ocean Model\n\nThe Princeton Ocean Model (POM) is a community general numerical model for ocean circulation that can be used to simulate and predict oceanic currents, temperatures, salinities and other water properties.\n\nThe model code was originally developed at Princeton University (G. Mellor and Alan Blumberg) in collaboration with Dynalysis of Princeton (H. James Herring, Richard C. Patchen). The model incorporates the Mellor–Yamada turbulence scheme developed in the early 1970s by George Mellor and Ted Yamada; this turbulence sub-model is widely used by oceanic and atmospheric models. At the time, early computer ocean models such as the Bryan–Cox model (developed in the late 1960s at the Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory, GFDL, and later became the Modular Ocean Model, MOM)), were aimed mostly at coarse-resolution simulations of the large-scale ocean circulation, so there was a need for a numerical model that can handle high-resolution coastal ocean processes. The Blumberg–Mellor model (which later became POM) thus included new features such as free surface to handle tides, sigma vertical coordinates (i.e., terrain-following) to handle complex topographies and shallow regions, a curvilinear grid to better handle coastlines, and a turbulence scheme to handle vertical mixing. At the early 1980s the model was used primarily to simulate estuaries such as the Hudson–Raritan Estuary (by Leo Oey) and the Delaware Bay (Boris Galperin), but also first attempts to use a sigma coordinate model for basin-scale problems have started with the coarse resolution model of the Gulf of Mexico (Blumberg and Mellor) and models of the Arctic Ocean (with the inclusion of ice-ocean coupling by Lakshmi Kantha and Sirpa Hakkinen).\n\nIn the early 1990s when the web and browsers started to be developed, POM became one of the first ocean model codes that were provided free of charge to users through the web. The establishment of the POM users group and its web support (by Tal Ezer) resulted in a continuous increase in the number of POM users which grew from about a dozen U.S. users in the 1980s to over 1000 users in 2000 and over 4000 users by 2009; there are users from over 70 different countries. In the 1990s the usage of POM expands to simulations of the Mediterranean Sea (Zavatarelli) and the first simulations with a sigma coordinate model of the entire Atlantic Ocean for climate research (Ezer). The development of the Mellor–Ezer optimal interpolation data assimilation scheme that projects surface satellite data into deep layers allows the construction of the first ocean forecast systems for the Gulf Stream and the U.S. east coast running operationally at the NOAA's National Weather Service (Frank Aikman and others). Operational forecast system for other regions such as the Great Lakes, the Gulf of Mexico (Oey), the Gulf of Maine (Huijie Xue) and the Hudson River (Blumberg) followed. For more information on applications of the model, see the searchable database of over 1800 POM-related publications.\n\nIn the late 1990s and the 2000s many other terrain-following community ocean models have been developed; some of their features can be traced back to features included in the original POM, other features are additional numerical and parameterization improvements. Several ocean models are direct descendents of POM such as the commercial version of POM known as the estuarine and coastal ocean model (ECOM), the navy coastal ocean model (NCOM) and the finite-volume coastal ocean model (FVCOM). Recent developments in POM include a generalized coordinate system that combines sigma and z-level grids (Mellor and Ezer), inundation features that allow simulations of wetting and drying (e.g., flood of land area) (Oey), and coupling ocean currents with surface waves (Mellor). Efforts to improve turbulent mixing also continue (Galperin, Kantha, Mellor and others).\n\nPOM users' meetings were held every few years, and in recent years the meetings were extended to include other models and renamed the International Workshop on Modeling the Ocean (IWMO). List of meetings: \n\nReviewed papers from the IWMO meetings are published by \"Ocean Dynamics\" in special issues\n(IWMO-2009 Part-I, IWMO-2009 Part-II, IWMO-2010, IWMO-2011, IWMO-2012, IWMO-2013, IWMO-2014).\n\n"}
{"id": "26617382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26617382", "title": "Radiation Portal Monitor", "text": "Radiation Portal Monitor\n\nRadiation Portal Monitors (RPMs) are passive radiation detection devices used for the screening of individuals, vehicles, cargo or other vectors for detection of illicit sources such as at borders or secure facilities. Fear of terrorist attacks with radiological weapons spurred RPM deployment for cargo scanning since 9/11, particularly in the United States.\n\nRPMs were originally developed for screening individuals and vehicles at secure facilities such as weapons laboratories. They were deployed at scrap metal facilities to detect radiation sources mixed among scrap that could contaminate a facility and result in a costly clean up. As part of the effort to thwart nuclear smuggling after the breakup of the Soviet Union, RPMs were deployed around that territory, and later around many other European and Asian countries, by the US Department of Energy (DOE) National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) Second Line of Defense Program (SLD) starting in the late 1990s. After the attack of 9/11, the US Customs and Border Protection (CBP) started the Radiation Portal Monitor Program (RPMP) to deploy RPMs around all US borders (land, sea and air).\n\nRadiation Portal Monitor (RPM) was designed to detect traces of radiation emitted from an object passing through a RPM. Gamma radiation is detected, and in some cases complemented by neutron detection when sensitivity for nuclear material is desired.\n\nFirst generation RPMs often rely on PVT scintillators for gamma counting. They provide limited information on energy of detected photons, and as a result, they were criticized for their inability to distinguish gamma rays originating from nuclear sources from gamma rays originating from a large variety of benign cargo types that naturally emit radioactivity, including cat litter, granite, porcelain, stoneware, banana etc. Those Naturally Occurring Radioactive Materials, called NORMs account for 99% of nuisance alarms.\nIt is worth noting that bananas have erroneously been reported as the source of radiation alarms; they are not. Most produce contains potassium-40, but packing density of fruits and vegetables is too low to produce a significant signal. PVT does have the ability to provide some energy discrimination, which can be exploited to limit nuisance alarms from NORM.\n\nIn attempt to reduce the high nuisance alarm rates of first generation RPMs, the Advanced Spectroscopic Portal (ASP) program was called into life. Some of the portal monitors evaluated for this purposes are based on NaI(Tl) scintillating crystals. These devices, having better energy resolution than PVT, were supposed to reduce nuisance alarm rates by distinguishing threats from benign sources on the basis of the detected gamma radiation spectra. ASPs based on NaI(Tl) had a cost several times that of first generation RPMs. To date, NaI(Tl) based ASPs have not been able to demonstrate significantly better performance than PVT based RPMs.\n\nThe ASP program was canceled in 2011 after continued problems, including a high rate of false positives and difficulty maintaining stable operation.\n\nIn the scope of the ASP program, high purity germanium (HPGe) based portal monitors were evaluated. HPGe, having significantly better energy resolution than NaI(Tl), allows rather precise measurement of the isotopes contributing to gamma ray spectra. However, due to very high costs and major constraints such as cryo-cooling requirements, US government support for HPGe based portal monitors was dropped.\n\nRPMs geared for interception of nuclear threats usually incorporate a neutron detection technology. The vast majority of all neutron detectors deployed in RPMs to date relies on He-3 tubes surrounded by neutron moderators. Since the end of 2009, however, the global He-3 supply crisis has made this technology unavailable. The search for alternative neutron detection technologies has yielded satisfactory results.\n\nThe latest technology being deployed at ports uses pressurized natural helium to directly detect fast neutrons, without the need for bulky neutron moderators. Utilizing recoil nuclei following neutron scatter events, natural helium glows (scintillates), allowing photomultipliers (e.g. SiPMs) to produce an electrical signal. Introducing moderators and lithium-6 to capture thermalized neutrons further increases the detection capabilities of natural helium, at the expense of losing the initial information of the neutrons (such as energy) and reducing sensitivity to shielded neutron-emitting materials.\n\nRPMs are deployed with the aim to intercept radiological threats as well as to deter malicious groups from deploying such threats.\n\nRadiological dispersal devices (RDDs) are weapons of mass disruption rather than weapons of mass destruction. \"Dirty bombs\" are examples of RDDs. As the name suggests, an RDD aims at dispersing radioactive material over an area, causing high cleanup costs, psychological, and economic damage. Nevertheless, direct human losses caused by RDDs are low and not attributed to the radiological aspect. RDDs are easily fabricated and components readily obtainable. RDDs are comparatively easy to detect with RPMs due to their high level of radioactivity. RDDs emit gamma radiation as well as sometimes, depending on what isotopes are used, neutrons.\n\nImprovised nuclear devices (INDs) and nuclear weapons are weapons of mass destruction. They are difficult to acquire, manufacture, refurbish, and handle. While INDs can be constructed to emit only low amounts of radiation making them difficult to detect with RPMs, all INDs emit some amounts of gamma and neutron radiation.\n\nGamma radiation as well as neutron radiation can cause RPMs to trigger an alarm procedure. Alarms caused by statistical fluctuations of detection rates are referred to as false alarms. Alarms caused by benign radioactive sources are referred to as nuisance alarms. Causes of nuisance alarms can be broken up into several large categories:\n\nThis article relates primarily to RPMs deployed for screening trucks at ports of entry. Over 1400 RPMs are deployed at US borders and a similar number at foreign locations for the purpose of interdicting illicit radiological and nuclear material. The US deployments cover all land border vehicles, all seaport containerized cargo, and all mail and express courier facilities. Efforts are also being made to deploy similar measures to other cross border vectors including:\n\nRPMs are also deployed at civilian and military nuclear facilities to prevent theft of radiological materials. Steel mills often use RPMs to screen incoming scrap metal to avoid radioactive sources illegally disposed in this way. Garbage incineration plants often monitor incoming material to avoid contamination.\n\n"}
{"id": "50283749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50283749", "title": "Rangeland management", "text": "Rangeland management\n\nRangeland management (also range management, range science, or arid-land management) is a professional natural science that centers around the study of rangelands and the \"conservation and sustainable management [of Arid-Lands] for the benefit of current societies and future generations.\" Range management is defined by Holechek et al. as the \"manipulation of rangeland components to obtain optimum combination of goods and services for society on a sustained basis.\"\n\nThe earliest form of Rangeland Management is not formally deemed part of the natural science studied today, although its roots can be traced to nomadic grazing practices of the neolithic agricultural revolution when humans domesticated plants and animals under pressures from population growth and environmental change. Humans might even have altered the environment in times preceding the Neolithic through hunting of large-game, whereby large losses of grazing herbivores could have resulted in altered ecological states; meaning humans have been inadvertently managing land throughout prehistory.\n\nRangeland management was developed in the United States in response to rangeland deterioration and in some cases, denudation, due to overgrazing and other misuse of arid lands, as was described by Hardin’s 1968 \"Tragedy of the Commons\" and evidenced previously by the 20th century \"Dust Bowl\". Historically, the discipline focused on the manipulation of grazing and the proper use of rangeland vegetation for livestock.\n\nToday, range management's focus has been expanded to include the host of ecosystem services that rangelands provide to humans world-wide. Key management components seek to optimize such goods and services through the protection and enhancement of soils, riparian zones, watersheds, and vegetation complexes, sustainably improving outputs of consumable range products such as red meat, wildlife, water, wood, fiber, leather, energy resource extraction, and outdoor recreation, as well as maintaining a focus on the manipulation of grazing activities of large herbivores to maintain or improve animal and plant production.\n\nThe Society for Range Management is \"the professional society dedicated to supporting persons who work with rangelands and have a commitment to their sustainable use.\" The primary Rangeland Management publications include the \"Journal of Range Management\", \"Rangelands\", and \"Rangeland Ecology & Management\".\n\nPastoralism has become a contemporary anthropological and ecological study as it faces many threats including fragmentation of land, conversion of rangeland into urban development, lack of grazing movement, impending threats on global diversity, damage to species with large terrain, decreases in shared public goods, decreased biological movements, threats of a \"tragedy of enclosures\", limitation of key resources, reduced biomass and invasive plant species growth. Interest in contemporary pastoralist cultures like the Maasai has continued to increase, especially because the traditional syncreticly-adaptive ability of pastoralists could promise lessons in collaborative and adaptive management for contemporary pastoralist societies threatened by globalization as well as for contemporary non-pastoralist societies that are managing livestock on rangelands.\n\nIn the United States, the study of range science is commonly offered at land-grant universities including New Mexico State University, Colorado State University, Oregon State University, South Dakota State University, Texas A&M University, Texas Tech University, the University of Arizona, the University of Idaho, the University of Wyoming, Utah State University, and Montana State University. The Range Science curriculum is strongly tied to animal science, as well as plant ecology, soil science, wildlife management, climatology and anthropology. Courses in a typical Range Science curriculum may include ethology, range animal nutrition, plant physiology, plant ecology, plant identification, plant communities, microbiology, soil sciences, fire control, agricultural economics, wildlife ecology, ranch management, Socioeconomics, cartography, hydrology, Ecophysiology, and environmental policy. These courses are essential to entering a range science profession.\n\nStudents with degrees in range science are eligible for a host of technician-type careers working for the federal government under the Bureau of Land Management, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, the Agricultural Research Service, the United States Environmental Protection Agency, the NRCS, or the US Forest Service as range conservationists, inventory technicians, range monitoring/animal science agents, field botanists, natural-resource technicians, vegetation/habitat monitors, GIS programming assistants, general range technicians, and as ecological assessors, as well as working in the private sector as range managers, ranch managers, producers, commercial consultants, mining and agricultural real estate agents, or as Range/ Ranch Consultants. Individuals who complete degrees at the M.S. or P.h.D. level, can seek academic careers as professors, extension specialists, research assistants, and adjunct staff, in addition to a number of professional research positions for government agencies such as the US Department of Agriculture and other state run departments.\n\n"}
{"id": "26956225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26956225", "title": "Riparian-zone restoration", "text": "Riparian-zone restoration\n\nRiparian-zone restoration is the ecological restoration of riparian-zone habitats of streams, rivers, springs, lakes, floodplains, and other hydrologic ecologies. A riparian zone or riparian area is the interface between land and a river or stream. \"Riparian\" is also the proper nomenclature for one of the fifteen terrestrial biomes of the earth; the habitats of plant and animal communities along the margins and river banks are called riparian vegetation, characterized by Aquatic plants and animals that favor them. Riparian zones are significant in ecology, environmental management, and civil engineering because of their role in soil conservation, their habitat biodiversity, and the influence they have on fauna and aquatic ecosystems, including grassland, woodland, wetland or sub-surface features such as water tables. In some regions the terms \"riparian woodland\", \"riparian forest\", \"riparian buffer zone,\" or \"riparian strip\" are used to characterize a riparian zone.\n\nThe perceived need for Riparian-zone restoration has come about because riparian zones have been altered and/or degraded throughout much of the world by the activities of mankind affecting natural geologic forces. The unique biodiversity of riparian ecosystems and the potential benefits that natural, vegetated riprarian have to offer in preventing erosion, maintaining water quality that ranges from being decent to completely healthy, providing habitat and wildlife corridors, and maintaining the health of in-stream biota () has led to a surge of restoration activities aimed at riparian ecosystems in the last few decades. Restoration efforts are typically guided by an ecological understanding of riparian-zone processes and knowledge of the causes of degradation. They are often interdependent with stream restoration projects.\n\nRiparian-zone disturbance falls into two main categories: hydrologic modifications that indirectly impact riparian communities through changes in stream morphology and hydrologic processes, and habitat alterations that result in direct modification of riparian communities through land clearing or disturbance.\n\nDams are built on rivers primarily to store water for human use, generate hydroelectric power, and/or control flooding. Natural riparian ecosystems upstream of dams can be destroyed when newly created reservoirs inundate riparian habitat. Dams can also cause substantial changes in downstream riparian communities by altering the magnitude, frequency, and timing of flood events and reducing the amount of sediment and nutrients delivered from upstream. Diverting water from stream channels for agricultural, industrial, and human use reduces the volume of water flowing downstream, and can have similar effects.\n\nIn a natural riparian system, periodic flooding can remove sections of riparian vegetation. This leaves portions of the floodplain available for regeneration and effectively “resets” the successional timeline. Frequent disturbance naturally favors many early-successional (pioneer) riparian species. Many studies show that a reduction in flooding due to dams and diversions can allow community succession to progress beyond a typical stage, causing changes in community structure.\n\nChanging flood regimes can be especially problematic when exotic species are favored by altered conditions. For example, dam regulation changes floodplain hydrology in the southwest US by impeding annual flooding cycles. This modification has been implicated in the dominance of saltcedar (Tamarix chinensis) over the native cottonwood (Populus deltoids). Cottonwoods were found to be competitively superior to saltcedar when flooding allowed seeds of both species to cogerminate. However, the lack of flooding caused by altered hydrology creates more favorable conditions for the germination of saltcedar over cottonwoods.\n\nRiparian zones are characterized by a distinct community of plant species that are physiologically adapted to a greater amount of freshwater than upland species. In addition to having frequent direct contact with surface water through periodic rises in stream water levels and flooding, riparian zones are also characterized by their proximity to groundwater. Particularly in arid regions, shallow groundwater, seeps, and springs provides a more constant source of water to riparian vegetation than occasional flooding. By reducing the availability of water, groundwater withdrawals can impact the health of riparian vegetation. For example, Fremont cottonwood (\"Populus fremontii\"), and San Joaquin willow (\"Salix gooddingii\"), common riparian species in Arizona, were found to have more dead branches and experienced greater mortality with decreasing groundwater levels.\n\nPlant community composition can change dramatically over a gradient of groundwater depth: plants that can only survive in wetland conditions can be replaced by plants that are tolerant of drier conditions as groundwater levels are reduced, causing habitat community shifts and in some cases complete loss of riparian species. Studies have also shown that decreases in groundwater levels may favor the invasion and persistence of certain exotic invasive species such as Saltcedar (\"Tamarix chinensis\"), which do not appear to show the same degree of physiologic water stress as native species when subjected to lower groundwater levels.\n\nStream channelization is the process of engineering straighter, wider, and deeper stream channels, usually for improved navigation, wetland drainage, and/or faster transport of flood waters downstream. Levees are often constructed in conjunction with channelization to protect human development and agricultural fields from flooding. Riparian vegetation can be directly removed or damaged during and after the channelization process. In addition, channelization and levee construction modify the natural hydrology of a stream system. As water flows through a natural stream, meanders are created when faster flowing water erodes outer banks and slower flowing water deposits sediment on inner banks. Many riparian plant species depend on these areas of new sediment deposition for germination and establishment of seedlings. Channel straightening and levee construction eliminate these areas of deposition, creating unfavorable conditions for riparian vegetation recruitment.\n\nBy preventing overbank flooding, levees reduce the amount of water available to riparian vegetation in the floodplain, which alters the types of vegetation that can persist in these conditions. A lack of flooding has been shown to decrease the amount of habitat heterogeneity in riparian ecosystems as wetland depressions in the floodplain no longer fill and hold water. Because habitat heterogeneity is correlated with species diversity, levees can cause reductions in the overall biodiversity of riparian ecosystems.\n\nIn many places around the world, vegetation within riparian zones have been completely removed as humans have cleared land for raising crops, growing timber, and developing land for commercial or residential purposes. Removing riparian vegetation increases the erodibility of stream banks, and can also speed the rate of channel migration (unless the newly cleared banks are lined with riprap, retaining walls, or concrete). In addition, removal of riparian vegetation fragments the remaining riparian ecosystem, which can prevent or hinder dispersal of species between habitat patches. This can diminish riparian plant diversity, as well as decrease abundances and diversity of migratory birds or other species that depend on large, undisturbed areas of habitat. Fragmentation can also prevent gene flow between isolated riparian patches, reducing genetic diversity.\n\nCattle have a propensity to aggregate around water, which can be detrimental to riparian ecosystems. While native ungulates such as deer are commonly found in riparian zones, livestock may trample or graze down native plants, creating an unnatural amount and type of disturbance that riparian species have not evolved to tolerate. Livestock grazing has been shown to reduce areal cover of native plant species, create disturbance frequencies that favor exotic annual weeds, and alter plant community composition. For example, in an arid South African ecosystem, grazing was found to cause a reduction of grasses, sedges, and tree species and an increase in non-succulent shrubs.\n\nMining stream channels for sand and gravel can impact riparian zones by destroying habitat directly, removing groundwater through pumping, altering stream channel morphology, and changing sediment flow regimes. Conversely, mining activities in the floodplain can create favorable areas for the establishment of riparian vegetation (e.g., cottonwoods) along streams where natural recruitment processes have been impacted through other forms of human activity. Mining for metals can impact riparian zones when toxic materials accumulate in sediments.\n\nThe number and diversity of invasive exotic species in riparian ecosystems is increasing worldwide. Riparian zones may be particularly vulnerable to invasion due to frequent habitat disturbance (both natural and anthropogenic) and the efficiency of rivers and streams in dispersing propagules. Invasive species can greatly impact the ecosystem structure and function of riparian zones. For example, the higher biomass of dense stands of the invasive Acacia mearnsii and Eucalyptus species causes greater water consumption and thus lower water levels in streams in South Africa. Invasive plants can also cause changes in the amount of sediment that is trapped by vegetation, altering channel morphology, and can increase the flammability of the vegetation, increasing fire frequency. Exotic animals can also impact riparian zones. For example, feral burros along the Santa Maria river strip bark and cambium off native cottonwoods, causing tree mortality.\n\nMethods for restoring riparian zones are often determined by the cause of degradation. Two main approaches are used in riparian-zone restoration: restoring hydrologic processes and geomorphic features, and reestablishing native riparian vegetation.\n\nWhen altered flow regimes have impacted riparian zone health, re-establishing natural streamflow may be the best solution to effectively restore riparian ecosystems. The complete removal of dams and flow-altering structures may be required to fully restore historic conditions, but this is not always realistic or feasible. An alternative to dam removal is for periodic flood pulses consistent with historical magnitude and timing to be simulated by releasing large amounts of water at once instead of maintaining more consistent flows throughout the year. This would allow overbank flooding, which is vital for maintaining the health of many riparian ecosystems. However, simply restoring a more natural flow regime also has logistical constraints, as legally appropriated water rights may not include the maintenance of such ecologically important factors. Reductions in groundwater pumping may also help restore riparian ecosystems by reestablishing groundwater levels that favor riparian vegetation; however, this too can be hampered by the fact that groundwater withdrawal regulations do not usually incorporate provisions for riparian protection.\n\nThe negative effects of channelization on stream and riparian health can be lessened through physical restoration of the stream channel. This can be accomplished by restoring flow to historic channels, or through the creation of new channels. In order for restoration to be successful, particularly for the creation of entirely new channels, restoration plans must take into account the geomorphic potential of the individual stream and tailor restoration methods accordingly. This is typically done through examination of reference streams (physically and ecologically similar streams in stable, natural condition) and by methods of stream classification based on morphological features. Stream channels are typically designed to be narrow enough to overflow into the floodplain on a 1.5 to 2 year timescale. The goal of geomorphic restoration is to eventually restore hydrologic processes important to riparian and instream ecosystems. However, this type of restoration can be logistically difficult: in many cases, the initial straightening or modification of the channel has resulted in humans encroaching into the former floodplain through development, agriculture, etc. In addition, stream channel modification can be extremely costly.\n\nOne well-known example of a large-scale stream restoration project is the Kissimmee River Restoration Project in central Florida. The Kissimmee River was channelized between 1962 and 1971 for flood control, turning a meandering 167 km of river into a 90 km drainage canal. This effectively eliminated seasonal inundation of the floodplain, causing a conversion from wetland to upland communities. A restoration plan began in 1999 with the goals of reestablishing ecological integrity of the river-floodplain system. The project involves dechannelizing major sections of the river, directing water into reconstructed channels, removing water control structures, and changing flow regimes to restore seasonal flooding to the floodplain. Since the completion of the first phase of restoration, a number of improvements in vegetation and wildlife communities have been documented as the conversion from uplands back to wetlands has begun to take place.\nBreaching levees to reconnect streams to their floodplains can be an effective form of restoration as well. On the Cosumnes River in central California, for example, the return of seasonal flooding to the floodplain as a result of levee breaching was found to result in the reestablishment of primarily native riparian plant communities.\n\nDechannelisation of shorter reach (2 km long) and lowered levee are also been proved to be an effective restoration approach together with natural (or near natural) flooding regime in order to improve soil processes spatial and temporal heterogeneity typical of natural floodplains\n\nStream channels will often recover from channelization without human intervention, provided that humans do not continue to maintain or modify the channel. Gradually, channel beds and stream banks will begin to accumulate sediment, meanders will form, and woody vegetation will take hold, stabilizing the banks. However, this process may take decades: a study found stream channel regeneration took approximately 65 years in channelized streams in West Tennessee. More active methods of restoration may speed the process along.\n\nThe revegetation of degraded riparian zones is a common practice in riparian restoration. Revegetation can be accomplished through active or passive means, or a combination of the two.\n\nA lack of naturally available propagules can be a major limiting factor in restoration success. Therefore, actively planting native vegetation is often crucial for the successful establishment of riparian species. Common methods for actively restoring vegetation include broadcast sowing seed and directly planting seeds, plugs, or seedlings. Reestablishing clonal species such as willows can often be accomplished by simply putting cuttings directly into the ground. To increase survival rates, young plants may need to be protected from herbivory with fencing or tree shelters. Preliminary research suggests that direct-seeding woody species may be more cost-effective than planting container stock.\n\nReference sites are often used to determine appropriate species to plant and may be used as sources for seeds or cuttings. Reference communities serve as models for what restoration sites should ideally look like after restoration is complete. Concerns about using reference sites have been raised however, as conditions at the restored and reference sites may not be similar enough to support the same species. Also, restored riparian zones may be able to support a variety of possible species combinations, therefore the Society for Ecological Restoration recommends using multiple reference sites to formulate restoration goals.\n\nA practical question in active vegetation restoration is whether certain plants facilitate the recruitment and persistence of other plants (as predicted by theories of succession), or whether initial community composition determines long-term community composition (priority effects). If the former applies, it may be more effective to plant facilitative species first, and wait to plant dependent species as conditions become appropriate (e.g., when enough shade is provided by overstory species). If the latter applies, it is probably best to plant all desired species at the outset.\n\nAs a critical component of restoring native riparian communities, restoration practitioners often have to remove invasive species and prevent them from reestablishing. This can be accomplished through herbicide application, mechanical removal, etc. When restoration is to be done on long stretches of rivers and streams, it is often useful to begin the project upstream and work downstream so that propagules from exotic species upstream will not hamper restoration attempts. Ensuring the establishment of native species is considered vital in preventing future colonizations of exotic plants.\n\nActive planting of riparian vegetation may be the fastest way to reestablish riparian ecosystems, but methods may be prohibitively resource-intensive. Riparian vegetation may come back on its own if human-induced disturbances are stopped and/or hydrologic processes are restored. For example, many studies show that preventing cattle grazing in riparian zones through exclusion fencing can allow riparian vegetation to rapidly increase in robustness and cover, and also shift to a more natural community composition. By simply restoring hydrologic processes such as periodic flooding that favor riparian vegetation, native communities may regenerate on their own (e.g., the Cosumnes River floodplain). The successful recruitment of native species will depend on whether local or upstream seed sources can successfully disperse propagules to the restoration site, or whether a native seed bank is present. One potential hindrance to passive vegetation restoration is that exotic species may preferentially colonize the riparian zone. Active weeding may improve the chances that the desired native plant community will reestablish.\n\nRestoration often focuses on reestablishing plant communities, probably because plants form the foundation for other organisms within the community. Restoration of faunal communities often follows the “Field of Dreams” hypothesis: “if you build it, they will come”. Many animal species have been found to naturally recolonize areas where habitat has been restored. For example, abundances of several bird species showed marked increases after riparian vegetation had been reestablished in a riparian corridor in Iowa.\nSome riparian restoration efforts may be aimed at conserving particular animal species of concern, such as the Valley elderberry longhorn beetle in central California, which is dependent on a riparian tree species (blue elderberry, \"Sambucus mexicana\") as its sole host plant. When restoration efforts target key species, consideration for individual species’ needs (e.g., minimum width or extent of riparian vegetation) are important for ensuring restoration success.\n\nRestoration failures may occur when appropriate ecosystem conditions are not reestablished, such as soil characteristics (e.g., salinity, pH, beneficial soil biota, etc.), surface water and groundwater levels, and flow regimes. Therefore, successful restoration may be dependent on taking a number of both biotic and abiotic factors into account. For example, restoration of soil biota, including symbiotic myccorhizae, invertebrates, and microorganisms may improve nutrient cycling dynamics. Restoration of physical processes may be a prerequisite to the reestablishment of healthy riparian communities. Ultimately, a combination of approaches taking into account causes for degradation and targeting both hydrology and the reestablishment of vegetation and other life forms may be most effective in riparian zone restoration.\n"}
{"id": "27057346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27057346", "title": "Saprolite", "text": "Saprolite\n\nSaprolite is a chemically weathered rock. Saprolites form in the lower zones of soil profiles and represent deep weathering of the bedrock surface. In most outcrops its color comes from ferric compounds. Deeply weathered profiles are widespread on the continental landmasses between latitudes 35°N and 35°S.\n\nConditions for the formation of deeply weathered regolith include a topographically moderate relief flat enough to prevent erosion and to allow leaching of the products of chemical weathering. A second condition is long periods of tectonic stability; tectonic activity and climate change can cause erosion. The third condition is humid tropical to temperate climate.\n\nPoorly weathered saprolite grit aquifers are capable of producing groundwater, often suitable for livestock. Deep weathering causes the formation of many secondary and supergene ores – bauxite, iron ores, saprolitic gold, supergene copper, uranium and heavy minerals in residual accumulations.\n\nSaprolite (from Greek σαπρος = putrid + λιθος = rock) is a chemically weathered rock (literally, it means \"rotten rock\"). More intense weathering results in a continuous transition from saprolite to laterite.\n\nSaprolites form in the lower zones of soil horizons and represent deep weathering of the bedrock surface. In lateritic regoliths – regoliths are the loose layer of rocks that rest on the bedrock – saprolite may be overlain by upper horizons of residual laterite; most of the original profile is preserved by residual soils or transported overburden. Weathering formed thin kaolinitic [AlSiO(OH)] saprolites 1,000 to 500 million years ago; thick kaolinitic saprolites 200 to 66 million years ago; and medium-thick immature saprolites 5 million years ago in Sweden. The general structure of kaolinite has silicate [SiO] sheets bonded to aluminium hydroxide [Al(OH)] layers.\n\nIron compounds are the primary coloring agents in saprolites. At most outcrops the color comes from ferric compounds; the color relates to the mineralogy and particle size. Submicron-sized goethite [FeO(OH)] is yellow; coarse goethite is brown. Sub-micron-sized hematite [FeO] is red; coarse hematite is gray to black.\n\nRegoliths vary from a few meters to over thick, depending on the age of the land surface, tectonic activity, climate, climate history and the composition of the bedrock. Although these deeply weathered terrains now occur in a wide variety of climates ranging from warm humid to arid, tropical to temperate, they were formed under similar conditions in the past. In parts of Africa, India, South America, Australia and southeast Asia, regolith has been forming continuously for over 100 million years. Deeply weathered regoliths are widespread in the inter-tropical belt, particularly on the continental landmasses between latitudes 35°N and 35°S. Similar weathered regoliths exist at much higher latitudes – 35–42°S in southeast Australia (Victoria and Tasmania), 40–45°N in the United States (Oregon and Wisconsin) and 55°N in Europe (Northern Ireland, Germany) – although these are not regionally extensive. In some localities it is possible to relatively date saprolite by considering that the saprolite must be younger than the parent material and older than any thick cover unit such a lava or sedimentary rock. This principle is useful in some contexts but in others, like certain parts of Sweden where grus is formed from Precambrian rocks and overlain by Quaternary deposits, it is of little value.\n\nThe regolith of a region is the product of its long weathering history; leaching and dispersion are dominant during the initial phase of weathering under humid conditions. Saprolites form in high rainfall regions which result in chemical weathering and are characterised by distinct decomposition of the parent rock's mineralogy. Conditions for the formation of deeply weathered regolith include a topographically moderate relief flat enough to allow leaching of the products of chemical weathering. A second condition is long periods of tectonic stability; tectonic activity and climate change partially erode the regolith. Weathering rates of per million years suggest that deep regoliths require several million years to develop. The third condition is humid tropical to temperate climate; higher temperatures enable reactions to occur more rapidly. Deep weathering can occur in cooler climates, but over longer periods of time.\n\nSulfides are some of the most unstable minerals in humid, oxidizing environments; many cadmium, cobalt, copper, molybdenum, nickel and zinc sulfides are easily leached to deep in the profile. Carbonates are highly soluble, especially in acidic environments; the elements hosted by them – calcium, magnesium, manganese and strontium – are strongly leached. Serpentinite – oxidized and hydrolized low-silicon, iron- and magnesium-rich oxide igneous rocks – are progressively weathered through this zone. Ferromagnesian minerals are the principal hosts for nickel, cobalt, copper and zinc in sulfide-poor mafic and ultramafic rocks, and are retained higher in the profile than sulfide-hosted metals. They are leached from the upper horizons and reprecipitate with secondary iron-manganese oxides in the mid- to lower saprolite.\n\nAquifers in Western Australia are of saprolite grit. Poorly weathered saprolite grit aquifers are capable of producing groundwater, often suitable for livestock. Yields depend on the texture of the materials and their depth from which the aquifer is derived.\n\nThe distributions of gold and calcium carbonate or calcium magnesium carbonates are closely correlated and documented in the southern Yilgarn Craton, Western Australia, in the top of the soil profile and locally as deep as . The gold-carbonate association is also apparent in the Gawler Craton, South Australia. Supergene enrichment occurs near the surface and involves water circulation with its resulting oxidation and chemical weathering. Deep weathering causes the formation of many secondary and supergene ores – bauxite, iron ores, saprolitic gold, supergene copper, uranium and heavy minerals in residual accumulations.\n\n"}
{"id": "69599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69599", "title": "Sif", "text": "Sif\n\nIn Norse mythology, Sif () is a goddess associated with earth. Sif is attested in the \"Poetic Edda\", compiled in the 13th century from earlier traditional sources, and the \"Prose Edda\", written in the 13th century by Snorri Sturluson, and in the poetry of skalds. In both the \"Poetic Edda\" and the \"Prose Edda\", Sif is the wife of the thunder god Thor and is known for her golden hair.\n\nIn the \"Prose Edda\", Sif is named as the mother of the goddess Þrúðr by Thor and of Ullr with a father whose name is not recorded. The \"Prose Edda\" also recounts that Sif once had her hair shorn by Loki, and that Thor forced Loki to have a golden headpiece made for Sif, resulting in not only Sif's golden tresses but also five other objects for other gods.\n\nScholars have proposed that Sif's hair may represent fields of golden wheat, that she may be associated with fertility, family, wedlock and/or that she is connected to rowan, and that there may be an allusion to her role or possibly her name in the Old English poem \"Beowulf\".\n\nThe name \"Sif\" is the singular form of the plural Old Norse word . only appears in singular form when referring to the goddess as a proper noun. is cognate to the Old English and modern English (meaning \"affinity, connection, by marriage\") and in other Germanic languages: Gothic (), Old High German , and modern German . appears not only in ancient poetry and records of law, but also in compounds ( means \"to marry\"). Using this etymology, scholar John Lindow gives the meanings \"in-law-relationship\", scholar Andy Orchard provides \"relation\", and scholar Rudolf Simek gives \"relation by marriage\".\n\nIn stanza 48 of the \"Poetic Edda\" poem \"Hárbarðsljóð\", Hárbarðr (Odin, father of Thor, in disguise) meets Thor at an inlet of a gulf. The two engage in flyting, and Hárbarðr refuses to ferry Thor across the bay. Among numerous other insults, Hárbarðr claims that Sif has a lover at home. In response, Thor says that Hárbarðr is speaking carelessly \"of what seems worst to me\" and also lying.\n\nIn stanzas 53 and 54 of the poem \"Lokasenna\", after pouring Loki a crystal cup of mead during his series of insults towards the gods, Sif states that there is nothing Loki can say only in regard to her. In response, Loki claims that Sif has had an affair with him:\n\nSif does not respond, and the exchange turns to Beyla. Sif is additionally mentioned in two kennings found in poems collected in the \"Poetic Edda\"; \"Hymiskviða\" (where Thor is referred to as the \"Husband of Sif\" thrice), and \"Þrymskviða\" (where Thor is once referred to as \"Husband of Sif\").\n\nIn the \"Prose Edda\", Sif is mentioned once in the Prologue, in chapter 31 of \"Gylfaginning\", and in \"Skáldskaparmál\" as a guest at Ægir's feast, the subject of a jötunn's desire, as having her hair shorn by Loki, and in various kennings.\n\nSif is introduced in chapter three of the Prologue section of the \"Prose Edda\"; Snorri's euhemerized account of the origins of Viking mythology. Snorri states that Thor married Sif, and that she is known as \"a prophetess called Sibyl, though we know her as Sif\". Sif is further described as \"the most loveliest of women\" and with hair of gold. Although he lists her own ancestors as unknown, Snorri writes that Thor and Sif produced a son by the name of Lóriði, who \"took after his father\".\n\nIn chapter 31 of the \"Prose Edda\" book \"Gylfaginning\", Ullr is referred to as a son of Sif and a stepson of Thor (though his father is not mentioned):\n\nAs reported in the \"Prose Edda\" book \"Skáldskaparmál\", Thor once engages in a duel with Hrungnir, there described as the strongest of the jötnar. Prior to this, Hrungnir had been drunkenly boasting of his desire to, amongst other things, kill all of the gods except Freyja and Sif, whom he wanted to take home with him. However, at the duel, Hrungnir is quickly killed by the enraged Thor.\n\nFurther in \"Skáldskaparmál\", Snorri relates a story where Loki cuts off Sif's hair as a prank. When Thor discovers this, he grabs hold of Loki, resulting in Loki swearing to have a headpiece made of gold to replace Sif's locks. Loki fulfills this promise by having a headpiece made by dwarfs, the Sons of Ivaldi. Along with the headpiece, the dwarfs produced Odin's spear, Gungnir. As the story progresses, the incident leads to the creation of the ship Skíðblaðnir and the boar Gullinbursti for Freyr, the multiplying ring Draupnir for Odin, and the mighty hammer Mjöllnir for Thor.\n\nSif also appears in \"Skáldskaparmál\" listed as a heiti for \"earth\", appears in a kenning for a gold-keeping woman, and once for Hildr. Poetic means of referring to Sif calling her \"wife of Thor\", \"mother of Ullr\", \"the fair-haired deity\", \"rival of Járnsaxa\", and as \"mother of Þrúðr\".\n\n19th-century scholar Jacob Grimm records that in his time residents of Värmland, Sweden \"call[ed] Thor's wife \"godmor\", good mother.\"\n\nIn Old English, \"sib\" (\"family\") is cognate with Old Norse \"Sif\" and \"sif\". In the Old English poem \"Beowulf\" (lines 2016 to 2018), Hroðgar's wife, Wealhþeow, moves through the hall serving mead to the warriors and defusing conflict. Various scholars beginning with Magnus Olsen have pointed to the similarity with what Sif does at the feast described in \"Lokasenna\". Richard North further notes that unusually, \"sib\" is personified here and in lines 2599 to 2661, and suggests they may be references to Sif in Danish religion: \"Both instances may indicate that the poet of \"Beowulf\" was in a position to imagine a sixth-century Scandinavia on the basis of his knowledge of contemporary Danish legends.\"\n\n19th-century scholar Jacob Grimm proposes a reconstruction of a Germanic deity cognate to Sif in other Germanic cultures, and proposes a similar nature to that of the goddesses Frigg and Freyja:\n\nThe Goth. , OHG. , , AS. gen. , denote peace, friendship, kindred; from these I infer a divinity \"Sibja\", \"Sippia\", \"Sib\", corresponding to ON. gen. , the wife of Thôrr, for the ON. too has a pl. meaning cognatio, sifi amicus (OHG. , ), sift genus, cognatio. By this sense of the word, \"Sif\" would appear to be, like Frigg and Freyja, a goddess of loveliness and love; as attributes of Oðinn and Thôrr agree, their wives Frigg and Sif have also a common signification.\n\nGrimm connects Eddic references to Sif's golden hair (gold is referred to as ; Sif's hair) with the herb name (\"Polytrichum aureum\"). Grimm says that \"expositors see in this the golden fruits of the Earth burnt up by fire and growing again, they liken Sif to Ceres\", and Grimm says that \"with it agrees the fact that O. Slav. is a gloss on \" but cites etymological problems between the potential cognate. Grimm says that Thor's mother was the earth, and not his wife, yet \"we do find the simple \"Sif\" standing for earth.\" Grimm adds that he is inconclusive regarding Sif and that, \"we ought to have fuller details about Sif, and these are wholly wanting in our mythology. Nowhere amongst us is the mystic relation of the seed-corn of Demeter, whose poignant grief for her daughter threatens to bring famine on mankind (Hymn to Cer. 305–306), nor anything like it, recorded.\"\n\nCiting the etymology of her name, 19th century scholar Guðbrandur Vigfússon theorizes that Sif \"betokens mother earth with her golden sheaves of grain; she was the goddess of the sanctity of the family and wedlock\".\n\nScholar Rudolf Simek theorizes that Sif likely originated as a complement to Thor through his fertility associations, and that the name \"Sif\" (Simek provides the etymology \"relation by marriage\") may have originally simply meant \"the wife (of Thor)\". Simek rejects notions of a \"vegetation cult\" venerating Sif, says that Sif does not appear to have a function, dismisses theories proposing connections between Sif's hair and grain as \"over-zealous interpretation[s]\", and theorizes that Snorri invented the story of Sif's shorn locks in attempt to explain the attributes of various gods.\n\nScholar H. R. Ellis Davidson states that Sif may have been an ancient fertility goddess, agreeing with a link between her lustrous hair and fields of golden wheat. Regarding Sif, Thor, and fertility, Davidson says:\n\nScholar John Lindow proposes that a potentially understated mythological importance of Sif's role in the story of her sheared hair exists; her headpiece is created along with the most important and powerful items in Norse mythology. Lindow further states that it may be easy to lose sight of the central role Sif plays in the creation of these objects.\n\nSif has been linked with Ravdna, the consort of the Sami thunder-god Horagalles. Red berries of rowan were holy to Ravdna, and the name \"Ravdna\" resembles the North-Germanic words for the tree (for example, Old Norse \"reynir\"). According to \"Skáldskaparmál\" the rowan is called \"the salvation of Thor\" because Thor once saved himself by clinging to it. It has been theorized that Sif was once conceived in the form of a rowan to which Thor clung.\n\nRegarding the accusations that Loki makes to Sif in \"Lokasenna\", Carolyne Larrington says that Sif is not elsewhere attested as unfaithful, though notes that Odin makes a similar accusation in \"Hárbarðsljóð\", and theorizes a potential connection between the story of Loki cutting off Sif's hair with these references. Larrington says \"how he got close enough to carry this out might be explained by this verse.\"\n\nSif has inspired the name of a volcano on the planet Venus (Sif Mons). Sif's characterization in modern media tends to be much more martial than in original sources. The Marvel Comics character, Sif, is based on the Sif of Norse myth and is portrayed by Jaimie Alexander in the Marvel Studios film \"Thor\", its , and the \"Marvel's Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D\" television series.\n\n"}
{"id": "41014515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41014515", "title": "Svanbergfjellet", "text": "Svanbergfjellet\n\nSvanbergfjellet is a mountain in Olav V Land at Spitsbergen, Svalbard. It has a height of 1,024 m.a.s.l. and is located east of Billefjorden and west of Akademikarbreen. The mountain is named after Swedish astronomer Jöns Svanberg. A point on the mountain was used as a trigonometric point during the Swedish-Russian Arc-of-Meridian Expedition.\n"}
{"id": "521248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=521248", "title": "Tropical forest", "text": "Tropical forest\n\nTropical forests are forested landscapes in tropical regions: \"i.e.\" land areas approximately bounded by the tropic of Cancer and Capricorn, but possibly affected by other factors such as prevailing winds.\nSome categories of tropical forest types is difficult. While forests in temperate areas are readily categorised on the basis of tree canopy density, such schemes do not work well in tropical forests. There is no single scheme that defines what a forest is, in tropical regions or elsewhere. Because of these difficulties, information on the extent of tropical forests varies between sources. However Tropical Forests are extensive, making up just under half the world’s forests.\n\nTropical forests are often thought of as evergreen rainforests and moist forests, however in reality only up to 60% of tropical forest is rainforest (depending on how this is defined - see maps). The remaining tropical forests are a diversity of many different forest types including: seasonally-dry tropical forest, mangroves, tropical freshwater swamp forests (or \"flooded forests\" such as the \"Várzea\" of the Amazon), dry forest, open \"Eucalyptus\" forests, tropical coniferous forests, savanna woodland (\"e.g.\" Sahelian forest) and mountain forests (the higher elevations of which are cloud forests). Over even relatively short distances, the boundaries between these biomes may be unclear, with ecotones between the main types.\n\nThe nature of tropical forest in any given area is affected by a number of factors, most importantly:\n\nThe \"Global 200\" scheme, promoted by the World Wildlife Fund, classifies three main tropical forest habitat types (biomes), grouping together tropical and sub-tropical areas (maps below):\n\nExtent of tropical and sub-tropical -\n\nA number of tropical forests have been designated High-Biodiversity Wilderness Areas, but remain subject to a wide range of disturbances, both natural and anthropogenic. All tropical forests have experienced at least some levels of disturbance.\n\nA study in Borneo describes how, between 1973 and 2018, old-growth forest had been reduced from 76% to 50% of the island, mostly due to fire and agricultural expansion. A widely-held view is that placing a value on the ecosystem services these forests provide may bring-about more sustainable policies. However, clear monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for environmental, social and economic outcomes are needed. For example, a study in Vietnam indicated that poor and inconsistent data combined with a lack of human resources and political interest (thus lack of financial support) are hampering efforts to improve forest land allocation and a Payments for Forest Environmental Services scheme.\n\n"}
{"id": "41085102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41085102", "title": "Wave action (continuum mechanics)", "text": "Wave action (continuum mechanics)\n\nIn continuum mechanics, wave action refers to a conservable measure of the wave part of a motion. For small-amplitude and slowly varying waves, the wave action density is:\n\nwhere formula_2 is the intrinsic wave energy and formula_3 is the intrinsic frequency of the slowly modulated waves – intrinsic here implying: as observed in a frame of reference moving with the mean velocity of the motion.\n\nThe action of a wave was introduced by in the study of the (pseudo) energy and momentum of waves in plasmas. derived the conservation of wave action – identified as an adiabatic invariant – from an averaged Lagrangian description of slowly varying nonlinear wave trains in inhomogeneous media:\n\nwhere formula_5 is the wave-action density flux and formula_6 is the divergence of formula_5. The description of waves in inhomogeneous and moving media was further elaborated by for the case of small-amplitude waves; they also called the quantity \"wave action\" (by which name it has been referred to subsequently). For small-amplitude waves the conservation of wave action becomes:\n\nwhere formula_11 is the group velocity and formula_12 the mean velocity of the inhomogeneous moving medium. While the \"total energy\" (the sum of the energies of the mean motion and of the wave motion) is conserved for a non-dissipative system, the energy of the wave motion is not conserved, since in general there can be an exchange of energy with the mean motion. However, wave action is a quantity which is conserved for the wave-part of the motion.\n\nThe equation for the conservation of wave action is for instance used extensively in wind wave models to forecast sea states as needed by mariners, the offshore industry and for coastal defense. Also in plasma physics and acoustics the concept of wave action is used.\n\nThe derivation of an exact wave-action equation for more general wave motion – not limited to slowly modulated waves, small-amplitude waves or (non-dissipative) conservative systems – was provided and analysed by using the framework of the generalised Lagrangian mean for the separation of wave and mean motion.\n\n"}
