{"id": "562864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=562864", "title": "2002 Überlingen mid-air collision", "text": "2002 Überlingen mid-air collision\n\nOn the night of 1 July 2002, Bashkirian Airlines Flight 2937, a Tupolev Tu-154 passenger jet, and DHL Flight 611, a Boeing 757 cargo jet, collided in mid-air over Überlingen, a southern German town on Lake Constance. All 69 passengers and crew aboard the Tupolev and the two crew members of the Boeing were killed.\n\nThe official investigation by the German Federal Bureau of Aircraft Accident Investigation (, (BFU)) identified as the main cause of the collision a number of shortcomings on the part of the Swiss air traffic control service in charge of the sector involved, and also ambiguities in the procedures regarding the use of TCAS, the on-board aircraft collision avoidance system.\n\nA year and a half after the crash, on 24 February 2004, Peter Nielsen, the air traffic controller on duty at the time of the collision, was murdered in an apparent act of revenge by Vitaly Kaloyev, a Russian citizen who had lost his wife and two children in the accident.\n\nBashkirian Airlines Flight 2937 was a chartered flight from Moscow, Russia, to Barcelona, Spain, carrying sixty passengers and nine crew. Forty-five of the passengers were Russian schoolchildren from the city of Ufa in Bashkortostan on a school trip organised by the local UNESCO committee to the Costa Dorada area of Spain.\nMost of the parents of the children were high-ranking officials in Bashkortostan. One of the fathers was the head of the local UNESCO committee.\n\nThe aircraft, a Tupolev Tu-154M registered as was piloted by an experienced Russian crew: 52-year-old Captain Alexander Mihailovich Gross (Александр Михайлович Гросс) and 40-year-old First Officer Oleg Pavlovich Grigoriev (Олег Павлович Григорьев). The captain had more than 12,000 flight hours to his credit. Grigoriev, the chief pilot of Bashkirian Airlines, had 8,500 hours of flying experience and his task was to evaluate Captain Gross's performance throughout the flight. 41-year-old Murat Ahatovich Itkulov (Мурат Ахатович Иткулов), a seasoned pilot with close to 7,900 flight hours who was normally the first officer, did not officially serve on duty due to this being the captain's assessment flight. 50-year-old Sergei Gennadyevich Kharlov (Сергей Геннадьевич Харлов), a flight navigator with approximately 13,000 flight hours, and 37-year-old Flight Engineer Oleg Irikovich Valeev (Олег Ирикович Валеев), who had almost 4,200 flight hours, joined the three pilots in the cockpit.\n\nDHL Flight 611, a Boeing 757-23APF cargo aircraft registered as had originated in Bahrain and was being flown by two Bahrain-based pilots, 47-year-old British Captain Paul Phillips and 34-year-old Canadian First Officer Brant Campioni. Both pilots were very experienced — the captain had logged close to 12,000 flight hours and the first officer had accumulated more than 6,600 flight hours. At the time of the accident, the aircraft was en route from Bergamo, Italy, to Brussels, Belgium.\n\nThe two aircraft were flying at flight level 360 (36,000 feet, 10,973 m) on a collision course. Despite being just inside the German border, the airspace was controlled from Zürich, Switzerland, by the private Swiss airspace control company Skyguide.\nThe only air traffic controller handling the airspace, Peter Nielsen, was working two workstations at the same time. Partly due to the added workload, and partly due to delayed radar data, he did not realise the problem in time and thus failed to keep the aircraft at a safe distance from each other. Less than a minute before the accident he realised the danger and contacted Flight 2937, instructing the pilot to descend by a thousand feet to avoid collision with crossing traffic (Flight 611). Seconds after the Russian crew initiated the descent, their traffic collision avoidance system (TCAS) instructed them to climb, while at about the same time the TCAS on Flight 611 instructed the pilots of that aircraft to descend. Had both aircraft followed those automated instructions, the collision would not have occurred.\n\nFlight 611's pilots on the Boeing jet followed the TCAS instructions and initiated a descent, but could not immediately inform Nielsen because the controller was dealing with Flight 2937. About eight seconds before the collision, Flight 611's descent rate was about , not quite as rapid as the range advised by that jet's TCAS; as for the Tupolev, the pilot disregarded his jet's TCAS instruction to climb, having already commenced his descent as instructed by the controller. Thus, both planes were now descending.\n\nUnaware of the TCAS-issued alerts, Nielsen repeated his instruction to Flight 2937 to descend, giving the Tupolev crew incorrect information as to the position of the DHL plane (telling them that the Boeing was to the right of the Tupolev when it was in fact to the left).\n\nThe aircraft collided at 23:35:32 local time, at almost a right angle at an altitude of , with the Boeing's vertical stabiliser slicing completely through Flight 2937's fuselage just ahead of the Tupolev's wings. The Tupolev broke into several pieces, scattering wreckage over a wide area. The nose section of the aircraft fell vertically, while the tail section with the engines continued, stalled, and fell. The crippled Boeing, now with 80% of its vertical stabiliser lost, struggled for a further seven kilometres (four miles) before crashing into a wooded area close to the village of Taisersdorf at a 70-degree downward angle. Each engine ended up several hundred metres away from the main wreckage, and the tail section was torn from the fuselage by trees just before impact. All 69 people on the Tupolev, and the two on board the Boeing, died.\n\nOnly one air traffic controller, Peter Nielsen of ACC Zurich, was controlling the airspace through which the aircraft were flying. The other controller on duty was resting in another room for the night. This was against SkyGuide's regulations but had been a common practice for years and was known and tolerated by management. Maintenance work was being carried out on the main radar image processing system, which meant that the controllers were forced to use a fallback system. The ground-based optical collision warning system, which would have alerted the controller to the pending collision approximately 2½ minutes before it happened, had been switched off for maintenance; Nielsen was unaware of this. There still was an aural STCA warning system, which released a warning addressed to workstation RE SUED at 23:35:00 (32 seconds before the collision); this warning was not heard by anyone present at that time, although no error in this system could be found in a subsequent technical audit — however, whether or not this audible warning is functional is not something which is technically logged. Even if Nielsen had heard this warning, at that time finding a useful resolution order by the air traffic controller is impossible.\n\nAll countries involved could add additional \"deviating\" statements to the official report. The Kingdom of Bahrain, Switzerland, and the Russian Federation did submit positions that were published with the official report. The U.S. did not submit deviating positions. The deviating statements were published verbatim as an appendix to the report by the German federal investigators.\n\nThe statement by the Kingdom of Bahrain, the home country of the DHL plane, mostly agrees with the findings of the report. It says that the report should have put less emphasis on the actions of individuals and more on the faults within Skyguide's organisation and management. Bahrain's statement also mentions the lack of crew resource management in the Tupolev's cockpit as a factor in the crash.\n\nThe Russian Federation states that the Russian pilots were unable to obey the TCAS advisory to climb; the advisory was given when they were already at while the controller wrongly stated there was conflicting traffic above them at . Also, the controller gave the wrong position of the DHL plane (2 o'clock instead of the actual 10 o'clock). Russia asserts that the DHL crew had a \"real possibility\" to avoid a collision since they were able to hear the conversation between the Russian crew and the controller.\n\nSwitzerland notes that the Tupolev was about below the flight level ordered by the Swiss controller, and still descending at . The Swiss say that this was also a cause of the accident. Switzerland also requested that the BFU make a formal finding that the TCAS advisories would have been useful if obeyed immediately; the BFU declined to do so.\n\nNielsen needed medical attention due to traumatic stress caused by the accident. At Skyguide, his former colleagues maintained a vase with a white rose over Nielsen's former workstation. Skyguide, after initially having blamed the Russian pilot for the accident, accepted full responsibility and asked relatives of the victims for forgiveness.\n\nAccording to news reports, Skyguide did pay out compensations to the families of the dead children. Under international aviation laws, the compensation amount was about SFr30,000 ($34,087) to SFr36,000. The Swiss Federal Court turned down appeals from some relatives for higher compensation in 2011.\n\nOn 27 July 2006, a court in Konstanz decided that the Federal Republic of Germany should pay compensation to Bashkirian Airlines. The court found that Germany was legally responsible for the actions of Skyguide. The government appealed the ruling, but in late 2013 Bashkirian Airlines and the Federal Republic of Germany reached a tacit agreement, ending the court case before a decision on the legal issues was reached.\n\nIn another case before the court in Konstanz, Skyguide's liability insurance is suing Bashkirian Airlines for 2.5 million euro in damages. The case was opened in March 2008; the legal questions are expected to be difficult, as the airline has filed for bankruptcy under Russian law.\n\nA criminal investigation of Skyguide began in May 2004. On 7 August 2006, a Swiss prosecutor filed manslaughter charges against eight employees of Skyguide. The prosecutor called for prison terms of up to 15 months if found guilty. The verdict was announced in September 2007. Three of the four managers convicted were given suspended prison terms and the fourth was ordered to pay a fine. Another four Skyguide employees were cleared of any wrongdoing.\n\nDevastated by the loss of his wife and two children aboard flight 2937, Vitaly Kaloyev, a Russian architect, held Peter Nielsen responsible for their deaths. He tracked down and stabbed Nielsen to death, in the presence of his wife and three children, at his home in Kloten, near Zürich, on 24 February 2004. The Swiss police arrested Kaloyev at a local motel shortly after, and in 2005 he was sentenced to prison for the murder. He was released in November 2007 because his mental condition was not sufficiently considered in the initial sentence. In January 2008, he was appointed deputy construction minister of North Ossetia. In 2016, Kaloyev was awarded the highest state medal by the government, the medal \"To the Glory of Ossetia\". The medal is awarded for the highest achievements, improving the living conditions of the inhabitants of the region, for educating the younger generation and maintaining law and order.\n\nThe accident raised questions as to how pilots must react when they receive conflicting orders from the TCAS and from air traffic control (ATC). TCAS was a relatively new technology at the time of the accident, having been mandatory in Europe since 2000. When the TCAS issues a resolution advisory (RA), the pilot flying should respond immediately by direct attention to RA displays and maneuver as indicated, unless doing so would jeopardise the safe operation of the flight, or unless the flight crew can assure separation with the help of definitive visual acquisition of the aircraft causing the RA. In responding to a TCAS RA that directs a deviation from assigned altitude, the flight crew should communicate with ATC as soon as practicable after responding to the RA. When the RA is removed, the flight crew should advise ATC that they are returning to their previously assigned clearance or should acknowledge any amended clearance issued.\n\nWhile the TCAS is programmed to assume that both crews will promptly follow the system's instructions, the operations manual did not clearly state that TCAS should always take precedence over any ATC commands. The manual described TCAS as \"a backup to the ATC system\", which could be wrongly interpreted to mean that ATC instructions have higher priority. This ambiguity was replicated in the Tu-154 Flight Operations Manual, which contained contradictory sections. On the one hand, chapter 8.18.3.4 emphasised the role of the ATC and describes the TCAS as an \"additional aid\", while chapter 8.18.3.2 forbade manoeuvers contrary to the TCAS. The BFU recommended that this ambiguity should be resolved in favor of obeying TCAS advisories even when these were in conflict with ATC instructions.\n\nSeventeen months before the Bashkirian Airlines-DHL collision there had already been another incident involving confusion between conflicting TCAS and ATC commands. In 2001, two Japanese airliners nearly collided with each other in Japanese skies. One of the aircraft had received conflicting orders from the TCAS and ATC; one pilot followed the instructions of the TCAS while the other did not. A collision was only averted because one of the pilots made evasive maneuvers based on a visual judgement. The aircraft missed each other by about , and the abrupt maneuver necessary to avert disaster left 100 occupants injured on one aircraft, some seriously. In its report, published eleven days after the Überlingen accident, Japan called on the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) to make it clear that TCAS advisories should always take precedence over ATC instructions. ICAO accepted this recommendation and amended its regulations in November 2003.\n\nBefore this accident a change proposal (CP 112) for the TCAS II system had been issued. This proposal would have created a \"reversal\" of the original warning – asking the DHL plane to climb and the Tupolev crew to descend. According to an analysis by Eurocontrol this would have avoided the collision if the DHL crew had followed the new instructions and the Tupolev had continued to descend. All TCAS II equipped aircraft have been upgraded to support RA reversal.\n\nAdditionally, an automatic downlink for the TCAS – which would have alerted the controller that a TCAS advisory had been issued to the aircraft under his control, and notified him of the nature of that advisory – had not been deployed worldwide at the time of the accident.\n\nThe investigation report contains a number of recommendations concerning TCAS, calling for upgrades and for better training and clearer instructions to the pilots.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "316643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=316643", "title": "Abraham Pais", "text": "Abraham Pais\n\nAbraham Pais (; May 19, 1918 – July 28, 2000) was a Dutch-born American physicist and science historian. Pais earned his Ph.D. from University of Utrecht just prior to a Nazi ban on Jewish participation in Dutch universities during World War II. When the Nazis began the forced relocation of Dutch Jews, he went into hiding, but was later arrested and saved only by the end of the war. He then served as an assistant to Niels Bohr in Denmark and was later a colleague of Albert Einstein at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, New Jersey. Pais wrote books documenting the lives of these two great physicists and the contributions they and others made to modern physics. He was a physics professor at Rockefeller University until his retirement.\n\nPais was born in Amsterdam, the first child of middle-class Dutch Jewish parents. His father, Isaiah \"Jacques\" Pais, was the descendant of Sephardic Jews who migrated from Portugal to the Low Countries around the beginning of the 17th century. His mother, Kaatje \"Cato\" van Kleeff, was the daughter of an Ashkenazi diamond cutter. His parents met while studying to become elementary-school teachers. They both taught school until his mother quit when they married on December 2, 1916. His only sibling, Annie, was born on November 1, 1920. During Pais's childhood his father was an elementary schoolmaster, headmaster, and later the headmaster of the Sephardic Hebrew school.\n\nPais was a bright student and a voracious reader during his early education and said he had a happy childhood and felt integrated in Dutch society. At age twelve he passed examinations to enter a higher burgher school and attended a school in Amsterdam with a five-year curriculum of basic subjects. He passed his final examinations as number one in his class. He graduated with a working knowledge of English, French, and German.\n\nIn the fall of 1935 Pais began his studies at the University of Amsterdam without a clear idea regarding his desired career. With an interest in the exact sciences, he gradually gravitated to chemistry and physics as major subjects, and mathematics and astronomy as minor subjects. In the winter of 1936/1937 his career goals were defined by two guest lectures by George Uhlenbeck, professor of theoretical physics at University of Utrecht. Pais was fascinated by Uhlenbeck's discussion of Enrico Fermi's incorporation of the neutrino into the theory of beta radiation.\n\nOn February 16, 1938, Pais was awarded two Bachelor of Science degrees in physics and mathematics, with minors in chemistry and astronomy. He began attending graduate courses in Amsterdam, including those in physics. He soon became disappointed by the only professor there in theoretical physics, (the son of the 1910 Nobel laureate Johannes Diderik van der Waals), whom he found dull and averse to the new developments in physics. Pais soon wrote to Uhlenbeck at Utrecht and was granted an interview. During the remainder of the spring term he discontinued attending classes in Amsterdam and made several trips to visit Uhlenbeck in his laboratory.\n\nIn the fall of 1938 Pais enrolled for graduate classes at University of Utrecht. Uhlenbeck, however, spent that term as a visiting professor at Columbia University in New York City. He left Pais with the use of his laboratory and a list of topics to study and work on. Pais was soon exposed to other prominent Dutch physicists and areas of research in experimental physics. He became well-acquainted with Hendrik Casimir, a physics professor at Leiden University who lectured at Utrecht twice a week on quantum physics. When Uhlenbeck returned from America, he brought news of a meeting he had attended in Washington, D.C., in which Niels Bohr and Enrico Fermi had first made public their news about nuclear fission. Uhlenbeck also announced that he would be leaving in the summer of 1939 for a professorship at University of Michigan, Ann Arbor.\n\nIn the fall of 1939 Pais dedicated himself to preparing for his master's degree. Utrecht experimental physicist Leonard Salomon Ornstein provided him guidance in his independent physics studies. Uhlenbeck, in anticipation of his departure, introduced Pais to physicist Hendrik Anthony Kramers at Leiden University, who became his mentor and friend. He was also influenced then by discussions with Léon Rosenfeld of the University of Liège, who was invited to Utrecht to give a colloquium in an effort to find a successor for Uhlenbeck and reported on the work he was then doing with Christian Møller on the meson theory of nuclear forces.\n\nPais successfully passed the examination for his master's degree on April 22, 1940. On May 7 the Dutch minister of education appointed Rosenfeld to succeed Uhlenbeck at the University of Utrecht. On May 8 Pais wrote to Rosenfeld at Liège to ask if he might continue his studies under him if his appointment came through, and again on May 9 to congratulate him on his appointment. On May 10, 1940, the Germans invaded the Netherlands, Belgium, and Luxembourg, disrupting the mail between Utrecht and Liège for months.\n\nAfter mail service was restored, Pais again wrote to Rosenfeld in Liège. In the meantime Pais had been appointed as Rosenfeld's assistant — Kees van Lier, who had been Uhlenbeck's assistant and was to continue as such under Rosenfeld, had committed suicide following the German invasion. Rosenfeld approved of his appointment and arrived at Utrecht in September 1940 and Pais began working on his doctoral dissertation.\n\nRosenfeld proposed that for his thesis Pais should formulate Rosenfeld and Møller's meson theory in terms of the five-dimensional space known as projective relativity theory, and then to use this theory to calculate the probability for the disintegration of deuterons when irradiated by energetic photons. Pais set to work studying projective relativity, meson theories, and nuclear physics related to the deuteron.\n\nIn November 1940 the German authorities issued a decree banning Jews from all civil service positions, including academic posts. Pais therefore lost his assistant professorship, though Rosenfeld secretly arranged for his successor to unofficially share the responsibilities and salary of the position with Pais. Professor Leonard Ornstein, however, lost his directorship of and access to the laboratory and died a broken man on May 20, 1941. A subsequent German decree ordered that doctorate degrees could not be issued to Jews after June 14, 1941. Pais worked feverishly to complete his dissertation and meet other requirements for his doctorate. He obtained his doctoral degree in theoretical physics on June 9, just five days before the deadline. His was the last Ph.D. issued to a Dutch Jew until after the war.\n\nDuring his student years Pais had been involved in the Zionist movement, through which he became acquainted with Trusha (Tirtsah) van Amerongen and Tina (Tineke) Strobos, and developed a close friendship with these two women and their families.\n\nThe Germans began to gradually restrict the activities of the Dutch Jews and in early 1942 required them to wear yellow stars. At first Pais felt safe because his former university status exempted him from being sent to a labor camp. In early 1943, however, the Dutch secretary general of internal affairs, Frederiks, made arrangements for the university Jews to report to Barneveld for their own safety, where they would be housed in a chateau. Pais did not trust that and instead went into hiding. Those who reported to Barneveld were later sent to the Theresienstadt concentration camp where most of them did survive.\n\nHis friend Tina Strobos was not Jewish and thus was free of restrictions and threat of incarceration. She arranged hiding places for Pais and other Jews in Amsterdam. When the Germans began forcing the Dutch Jews into a ghetto in the old Jewish quarter of Amsterdam, his sister Annie and her husband Hermann complied. Tina found them a place to hide, but despite Pais's urgent pleas for them to take advantage of it, they did not think it necessary. Annie was later killed at the Sobibór extermination camp. Tina had found refuge for Pais's parents on a farm outside Amsterdam where they survived the war. She also acted as a courier between Pais and his parents during the war, though neither knew of the other's specific location.\n\nHis last hiding place was in an apartment with his university friend Lion Nordheim, his wife Jeanne, and her sister Trusha van Amerongen. In the course of his hiding he kept in touch with the scientific community through visits at his hiding place by Hendrik Anthony Kramers and Lambertus Broer. Jeanne and Trusha had blond hair and blue eyes and ventured out in public as non-Jews, while Lion and Pais hid in the apartment. In March 1945, however, they were betrayed and all four were arrested. The same week the Americans had crossed the Rhine and cut the rail lines, making impossible their transfer to a concentration camp. The women were soon released. After a month of interrogation by the Gestapo, Pais was released several days before the end of the war. Nordheim was executed ten days before the end of the war.\n\nDuring World War II, Pais's doctoral dissertation had attracted the attention of Niels Bohr, who invited him to come to Denmark as his assistant. Pais was forced into hiding before he could leave the Netherlands. In 1946, following the war, Pais was able to accept that invitation and served as a personal assistant to Bohr at his country home in Tisvilde for a year.\n\nIn 1947 he accepted a position at the Institute for Advanced Study in the United States and thus became a colleague of Albert Einstein.\n\nIn 1949 he became corresponding member of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences.\n\nFor the next 25 years he worked on elementary particle theory with a primary interest in quantum field theory and symmetry. The technical contributions for which he is recognized include a precise definition of G-parity with Res Jost, and his treatment of SU(6) symmetry breaking.\n\nHe is primarily associated with two concepts that directly contributed to major breakthroughs in his field. The first was the idea of \"associated production\" to explain the puzzling properties of strange particles. His ideas and those of Murray Gell-Mann resulted in the idea of a quantum number called strangeness. The second concept was Pais's and Gell-Mann's theory regarding the composition of the neutral kaons, proposing that the observed states were admixtures of particles and antiparticles, having different lifetimes; this was experimentally confirmed in the following year by Lederman and collaborators.\nIn 1956, Pais became a naturalized citizen of the United States.\n\nIn 1963 Pais accepted a position at Rockefeller University to head the theoretical physics group while Rockefeller was in transition from being a medical institute to a university. He finished his career there as the Detlev W. Bronk professor emeritus.\n\nIn 1979, Pais was awarded the J. Robert Oppenheimer Memorial Prize.\n\nIn the late 1970s Pais became interested in documenting the history of modern physics. He felt he was in a unique position to do so, having known many of the key people and with his knowledge of the language, culture, and science.\n\nPais was perhaps best known for his biography of Albert Einstein, \"\"Subtle is the Lord—\": The science and the life of Albert Einstein\" (Oxford University Press, 1982), and its sequel, \"Einstein Lived Here\" (Clarendon Press/Oxford University Press, 1994). \"Subtle is the Lord—\" won the 1983 U.S. National Book Award in Science.\n\nHis \"Inward Bound: Of matter and forces in the physical world\" (Clarendon Press/Oxford University Press, 1988) describes the events in physics during the preceding 100 years, and tries to explain why they happened as they did.\n\nIn 1991 he published \"Niels Bohr's Times: In physics, philosophy, and polity\" (Clarendon Press/Oxford University Press, 1991) which describes the life and scientific contributions of Bohr.\n\nIn 1995 he teamed with Laurie M. Brown and Sir Brian Pippard to compile a three-volume reference collection of articles portraying the scientific and cultural development of modern physics in \"Twentieth Century Physics\" (American Institute of Physics and the Institute of Physics, U.K., 1995). That same year Rockefeller University awarded him the Lewis Thomas Prize for Writing about Science.\n\n\"A Tale of Two Continents: A physicist's life in a turbulent world\" (Princeton University Press, 1997) was his autobiography. It refers to the 'esemplastic power of the imagination'.\n\nHis book \"The Genius of Science: A portrait gallery\" (Oxford University Press, 2000) contains biographies of seventeen distinguished physicists he had known personally: Niels Bohr, Max Born, Paul Dirac, Albert Einstein, Mitchell Feigenbaum, Res Jost, Oskar Klein, Hans Kramers, Tsung-Dao Lee and Chen Ning Yang, John von Neumann, Wolfgang Pauli, Isidor Isaac Rabi, Robert Serber, George Uhlenbeck, Victor Frederick Weisskopf, and Eugene Wigner.\n\nPais was working on a biography of Robert Oppenheimer at the time of his death. It was finished by Robert P. Crease and published posthumously as \"J. Robert Oppenheimer: A life\" (Oxford University Press, 2006). It is the most complete biography of Oppenheimer to date.\n\nThe American Physical Society has awarded an Abraham Pais Prize for History of Physics annually since 2005.\n\nAfter his retirement Pais and his third wife Ida Nicolaisen spent half their time in Denmark where he worked at the Niels Bohr Institute. His son Josh Pais is an American actor. Pais died of heart failure in Copenhagen.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "337451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=337451", "title": "Academic fencing", "text": "Academic fencing\n\nAcademic fencing (German akademisches Fechten) or Mensur is the traditional kind of fencing practiced by some student corporations (\"Studentenverbindungen\") in Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Latvia, Estonia, and, to a minor extent, in Belgium, Lithuania, and Poland. It is a traditional, strictly regulated épée/rapier fight between two male members of different fraternities with sharp weapons. The German technical term \"Mensur\" (from Latin, \"dimension\") in the 16th century referred to the specified distance between each of the fencers. \n\nModern academic fencing, the \"Mensur\", is neither a duel nor a sport. It is a traditional way of training and educating character and personality; thus, in a mensur bout, there is neither winner nor loser. In contrast to sport fencing, the participants stand their ground at a fixed distance. At the beginning of the tradition, duelers wore only their normal clothing (as duels sometimes would arise spontaneously) or light-cloth armor on arm, torso, and throat. In recent years, fencers are protected by mail or padding for the body, fencing arm, fencing hand (gauntlet) and the throat, completed by steel goggles with a nose guard. In Austria and Switzerland a nose guard is uncommon. They fence at arm's length and stand more or less in one place, while attempting to hit the unprotected areas of their opponent's face and head. Flinching or dodging is not allowed, the goal being less to avoid injury than to endure it stoically. Two physicians are present (one for each opponent) to attend to injuries and stop the fight if necessary.\n\nThe participants, or \"Paukanten\", use specially developed swords. The so-called \"Mensurschläger\" (or simply \"Schläger\"), exists in two versions. The most common weapon is the \"Korbschläger\" with a basket-type guard. Some universities use the so-called \"Glockenschläger\", which is equipped with a bell-shaped guard. These universities are Leipzig, Berlin, Greifswald, Dresden, Tharandt (in the Forestry College, which is now part of Technische Universität Dresden), Halle on the Saale, Frankfurt-an-der-Oder, and Freiberg. In Jena, both \"Korbschläger\" and \"Glockenschläger\" are used. \"Studentenverbindungen\" from some western cities use \"Glockenschläger\" because their tradition had its origin in one of the eastern universities but moved to West Germany after World War II.\n\nThe scar resulting from a hit is called a \"smite\" (German \"Schmiss\"), and was seen as a badge of honour, especially in the second half of the 19th century and the first half of the 20th. Today, it is not easy for an outsider to identify Mensur scars due to better medical treatment. Also the number of mandatory Mensuren were reduced in the second half of the 20th century. Most Mensur scars are located on the left temple of the forehead. Scars on the cheek and chin are rather uncommon today and sometimes due to accidents.\n\nStarting in Spain at the end of the 15th century, the dueling sword (rapier) became a regular part of the attire of noblemen throughout Europe. In the Holy Roman Empire, this became usual among students, as well. Brawling and fighting were regular occupations of students in the German-speaking areas during the early modern period. In line with developments in the aristocracy and the military, regulated duels were introduced to the academic environment, as well. The basis of this was the conviction that being a student meant being something different from the rest of the population. Students wore special clothes, developed special kinds of festivities, sang student songs, and fought duels, sometimes spontaneously (so called \"rencontre\", French \"meeting\" or \"combat\"), sometimes according to strict regulations called \"comment\" (French \"how\"). The weapons used were the same as those employed in civilian dueling, being at first the rapier and later the smallsword (court sword, dress sword, French \"l'épée de cour\", German \"Kostümdegen\", \"Galanteriedegen\"), which was seen as part of the dress and always at hand as a side arm.\n\nStudent life was quite unsafe in these years, especially in the 16th and 17th centuries during the Reformation wars and the Thirty Years' War (1618–1648), when a major part of the German population was killed. Public life was brutal and students killing each other in the street was not uncommon.\n\nA major step towards civilization was the introduction of the \"regulated\" duel, of which the first recordings exist from the 17th century. The fight was not decided on the spot, but the time and location were appointed and negotiations were done by officials. A so-called \"Kartellträger\" did the arrangements and a \"second\" represented the interests of the fighter during the duel and could even give physical protection from illegal actions. A kind of referee was present to make decisions, and eventually the practice of having an attending doctor became normal so as to give medical help in case of an injury.\n\nAt the end of the 18th century (after the French Revolution), wearing of weapons in everyday life fell out of fashion and was more and more forbidden, even for students. This certainly reduced the number of spontaneous duels dramatically. The regulated duel remained in use, though still forbidden.\n\nThe foil was invented in France as a training weapon in the middle of the 18th century to practice fast and elegant thrust fencing. Fencers blunted the point by wrapping a foil around the blade or fastening a knob on the point (\"blossom\", French \"fleuret\"). In addition to practising, some fencers took away the protection and used the sharp foil for duels. German students took up that practice and developed the \"Pariser\" (\"Parisian\") thrusting small sword for the \"Stoßmensur\" (\"thrusting mensur\"). After the dress sword was abolished, the \"Pariser\" became the only weapon for academic thrust fencing in Germany.\n\nSince fencing on thrust with a sharp point is quite dangerous, many students died from their lungs being pierced (\"Lungenfuchser\"), which made breathing difficult or impossible. However, the counter movement had already started in Göttingen in the 1760s. Here the \"Göttinger Hieber\" was invented, the predecessor of the modern \"Korbschläger\", a new weapon for cut fencing. In the following years, the \"Glockenschläger\" was invented in east German universities for cut fencing as well.\n\nThrust fencing (using \"Pariser\") and cut fencing using \"Korbschläger\" or \"Glockenschläger\") existed in parallel in Germany during the first decades of the 19th century—with local preferences. Thrust fencing was especially popular in Jena, Erlangen, Würzburg, and Ingolstadt/Landshut, two towns where the predecessors of Munich University were located. The last thrust \"Mensur\" is recorded to have taken place in Würzburg in 1860.\n\nUntil the first half of the 19th century, all types of academic fencing can be seen as duels, since all fencing with sharp weapons was about honour. No combat with sharp blades took place without a formal insult. Compared to pistol duels, these events were quite harmless. The fight regularly ended when a contestant received a wound at least one inch long that produced at least one drop of blood. It was not uncommon for students to have fought approximately 10 to 30 duels of that kind during their university years. The German student Fritz Bacmeister is the 19th century record holder, due to his estimated 100 mensur bouts fought in Göttingen, Jena, and Würzburg between 1860 and 1866.\nIn the 20th and 21st century it was Alexander Kliesch (Landsmannschaft Brandenburg Berlin) with 70.\n\nFor duels with nonstudents, e.g., military officers, the \"academic sabre\" became usual, apparently derived from the military sabre. It was a heavy weapon with a curved blade and a hilt similar to the \"Korbschläger\".\n\nDuring the first half of the 19th century and some of the 18th century, students believed the character of a person could easily be judged by watching him fight with sharp blades under strict regulations. Academic fencing was more and more seen as a kind of personality training by showing countenance and fairness even in dangerous situations. Student corporations demanded their members fight at least one duel with sharp blades during their university time. The problem was that some peaceful students had nobody to offend them. The solution was a kind of formal insult that did not actually infringe honour, but was just seen as a challenge for fencing. The standard wording was \"dummer Junge\" (German for \"young fool.\")\n\nIn the long term, this solution was unsatisfying. Around 1850, the \"Bestimmungsmensur\" (German \"bestimmen\" means \"ascertain\", \"define\" or \"determine\") was developed and introduced throughout Germany. This meant the opponents of a \"Mensur\" were determined by the fencing official of their corporations. These officials were regularly vice-chairmen (\"Consenior\") and responsible for arranging \"Mensur\" bouts in cooperation with their colleagues from other corporations. Their objective was to find opponents of equal physical and fencing capabilities to make the event challenging for both participants. That is the way it is still done today, and is the concept of the \"Mensur\" in the modern sense of the word.\n\nBefore the Communist revolution in Russia and before World War II, academic fencing was known in most countries of Eastern Europe, as well.\n\nBy the end of the 19th century, the dueling form evolved into the modern Mensur. In 1884, the British Saturday Review described the dueling as follows:\n\nIn the German Schläger combat the position is the same as in back-swording, save that the left arm is kept, as in sabre play, behind the body; commonly the waistband of the trousers is grasped by the left hand. The weapon is a long, narrow blade, like a pointless rapier, but much more flexible. It is sharpened for a length of twenty centimetres (say eight inches) on the true edge, and five on the false edge. For practice and instruction blunt and rather stouter blades are used. The mask is like an English single-stick mask, but stronger and heavier. A padded leather vest, coming almost down to the knees, covers the body, and the right arm is encased in a sleeve attached to a gauntlet, which may be compared to an elongated Rugby football. In the actual duel there is an even more elaborate system of defense ; the right wrist is guarded with a ring of mail, and the arm with folds of silk, which, like the turban of the East, are enough to stop any ordinary cut. Practically, though not according to strict rule, the body is altogether covered. The eyes are protected by iron spectacles, with strong wire net instead of glasses. \n\nDuring the times of the Third Reich, the national socialist leadership chose to forbid academic fencing. They had recognized that Mensur fencing was an integral part to the internal strength of the last still-existing independent Studentenverbindung fraternities during the later 1930s. As Nazi pressure increased and fraternities were forced to officially suspend their activities, so-called comradeships were founded. These provided means for practicing and organizing the Mensur among former fraternities while remaining undetected to the Nazi secret police. One such example was the SC-Comradeship \"Hermann Löns\" initiated by members of the Corps Hubertia Freiburg and other fraternities in Freiburg, Germany. There, fencing Mensur \"duels\" continued and even intensified from 1941 on, with over 100 of such duels happening during World War II in Freiburg alone. Following the war, most of the formerly suspended fraternities were reactivated and resumed the traditions of Mensur fencing, if they had not continued throughout the time of Nazi occupation.\n\nToday, the Mensur is practiced by about 400 traditional \"Studentenverbindung\" fraternities in Germany, including all the Corps and several of the Burschenschaften, Landsmannschaften, Turnerschaften and Sängerschaften. Menzura, as the Mensur is known in Poland, is still practised although its popularity declined after the World War II. \n\nAmerican traveller Mark Twain devoted several chapters of \"A Tramp Abroad\" (1880) to Heidelberg students' fencing.\n\nIn \"Three Men on the Bummel\" (1900), Jerome K. Jerome devoted a chapter to German student life, and describes the \"German Mensur\" in detail. While much of the book has a tone of admiration for the German people, he expressed extreme disapproval for this tradition.\n\nIn George MacDonald Fraser's \"Royal Flash\" (1970), the protagonist Harry Flashman is scarred with a \"Schläger\" as part of his disguise as a Danish prince.\n\nMensur is featured in Heinrich Mann's novel \"Man of Straw\" (\"Der Untertan\").\n\nMensur scars are repeatedly noted and described as a sign of beauty and manliness by German characters in Katherine Anne Porter's novel \"Ship of Fools\".\n\nMensur scars are mentioned in passing in Robert Heinlein's \"Starship Troopers\" when two German recruits are asked at the beginning of boot camp where they got their scars. The drill sergeant even uses the term \"Korpsbruder\" (as spelled in modern German). E. C. Gordon, the hero of Heinlein's \"Glory Road\", mentions his desire for a degree from Heidelberg and the dueling scars to go with it.\n\nThe opening scene of \"The Mystery of the Spanish Chest,\" in season three of \"Agatha Christie's Poirot\", features two men fighting in the mensur style. The episode's dialogue implies that the fencers are English, rather than German, and that one fencer has challenged the other to a duel over a woman.\n\nIn the James Bond books by Ian Fleming, the supervillain Ernst Stavro Blofeld has a dueling scar below his eye.\n\nThe Mensur is featured in a number of German films, notably:\n\nand less commonly in films outside Germany, such as\n\n\n\"A more detailed article (in German) with multiple illustrations can be found on the German Wikipedia:\" \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36356046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36356046", "title": "Académie internationale Mohammed VI de l'aviation civile", "text": "Académie internationale Mohammed VI de l'aviation civile\n\nThe Académie internationale Mohammed VI de l'aviation civile (AIMAC, in English International Academy Mohammed VI of Civil Aviation) is a public aviation university created in 2000 by the King Mohammed VI of Morocco in order to train air traffic controllers, Air Traffic Safety Electronics Personnel and aerospace engineers. Under the supervision of the Moroccan Airports Authority and the Ministry of Equipment and Transport, the university is based on the recommendations of the International Civil Aviation Organization.\n\nThe Academy has received the ICAO agreement as the first French speaking training center of \"Trainair\" network. The \"École nationale de l'aviation civile\" (ENAC) of Toulouse is linked to the university by a partnership agreement, in particularly for air navigation courses. Moreover, in December 2011, the academy has signed a partnership with this university and the \"École des Ponts ParisTech\" for the creation of an executive aviation MBA at Casablanca in March 2012. The Federal Aviation Administration is also a partner of AIMAC, in particular for the launch of common e-learning courses.\n\nThe Academy has been chosen by Concordia University for the development of a regional center of this Canadian university at Casablanca to provide MBA courses in aviation.\n\nMohammed VI Academy has other partnership such as Eurocontrol and \"Aéroport de Paris\".\n"}
{"id": "8208027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8208027", "title": "Anti-Gag Statute", "text": "Anti-Gag Statute\n\nThe anti-gag statute is a little-known legal boundary in the long struggle in the United States between Executive Branch secrecy and the United States Congress and the public’s right to know. Since 1988, the statute has been an annual appropriations restriction drawing the line on Executive branch efforts to limit whistleblowing disclosures to information that is specifically identified in advance as classified. The anti-gag statute requires a mandatory, specifically worded addendum on any nondisclosure policy, form or agreement to legally spend money to implement or enforce the gag order. \n\nThe addendum states that the Whistleblower Protection Act of 1989 (protecting public disclosures) and the Lloyd–La Follette Act of 1912 (protecting congressional communications) supersede any restrictive language in the gag order. The addendum even incorporates by reference the language of those and other related good government and national security laws into every federally enforced gag order, as a prerequisite to be legally enforceable. It has been unanimously renewed every year since 1988.\n\nThe anti-gag statute was first passed in response to Reagan administration nondisclosure agreements, primarily known as SF 189 and SF 312, which employees had to sign as a prerequisite to keep or obtain their security clearances. The forms were gag orders that would have effectively created a back door Official Secrets Act for 2.4 million clearance holders if implemented as planned. The agreements were to be enforced through loss of clearance and felony prosecution for releasing any “classifiable” information without advance approval. \n\nWhat did “classifiable” mean? Steve Garfinkel, President Ronald Reagan’s chief of the Information Security Oversight Office (ISOO) that implemented SF 189, informed Congress that it meant anything that could or should have been classified, or “virtually anything.” In other words, without advance permission, whistleblowers could be prosecuted based on an after-the-fact call that almost any information they released was classified. “Classifiable” would have created a new hybrid secrecy, or “pseudo-classification” category that imposed sweeping prior restraint for admittedly less sensitive information. \n\nAfter 1.7 million federal employees and contractors acquiesced by signing SF 189, Pentagon whistleblower Ernie Fitzgerald sparked a legislative and legal counterattack by refusing to do so. At one of numerous congressional hearings on the matter, Sen. Charles Grassley (R-IA) characterized the administration’s non-disclosure policy as an effort to “place a blanket of silence over all information generated by the government.”3 As a counter-attack, in 1988, Congress banned spending on SF 189. The Administration withdrew the form and substituted a new one, but the only change was to replace “classifiable” with “unmarked but classified.” Critics rejected the impact as disingenuous and meaningless, because whistleblowers still would have to seek advance approval from their supervisors to know for certain whether making a disclosure would be a crime. \n\nAfter Congress enacted the spending ban, the Administration filed a constitutional challenge that went to the Supreme Court, arguing that the law infringed on the Commander in Chief's powers. After the Supreme Court temporarily ducked the issue, Congress in 1989 rewrote the spending ban in its current language, which has not been challenged. The final anti-gag statute circumvents the Administration’s constitutional challenge by requiring the President to obey the relevant good government and national security laws he already signed. Although the law’s roots involve a national security controversy, its language sets the terms for lawful-spending to enforce any Executive branch restriction on free speech rights.\n\nThe campaign to put enforcement teeth in the anti-gag statute has become even more significant, due to two recent factors. First, there has been an increasing number of national security and non-national security gag orders during the last few years. Critics have called these illegally broad. Gag orders have been used in attempts to silence America’s top government scientists on matters ranging from the secret additional $800 million in the prescription drug bill, to U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) cover-ups of knowledge about dangerous drugs such as Vioxx, to the most alarming scientific research on the imminent threat from global warming. Second, while the term \"classifiable\" was removed from executive gag orders in 1989, new designations similar to \"classifiable\" have developed. These include \"Sensitive, but Unclassified,\" \"Sensitive Security Information,\" and \"Critical Infrastructure Information\" (a congressionally created version from the Patriot Act). They all have the same characteristics – employment and criminal liability for non-classified disclosures of arguably anything without prior permission. In fact, their threat is greater than the original Reagan-era nondisclosure policy, because these restrictions impose an Official Secrets Act on every federal employee or contractor, not just those with security clearances. \n\nThe new hybrid secrecy categories also have been used to camouflage phony announcements of free speech reform. To illustrate, NASA recently issued a new media policy to quell the controversy around an unsuccessful attempt to gag its top climate change scientist, Dr. James Hansen. The policy appears to respect employees' free speech rights as private citizens, but there is an all-encompassing loophole: the policy defies the WPA by requiring prior approval for all whistleblower disclosures that are \"Sensitive But Unclassified\" (SBU). The legal definition of SBU is overly broad and vague, and potentially can sweep in any information. Illustrative definitions include the Energy Department’s (\"information for which disclosure … could adversely affect national security or government interests\") and the State Department’s (\"information which, if released, could result in or harm or unfair treatment to any individual or group\"). NASA’s own procedures do not define the term explicitly, but explain that it replaces the broad category \"For Official Use Only.\"\n\nLike the Lloyd–Lafollete Act protecting communications with Congress, the anti-gag statute has been an effective weapon for lawyers to discredit, negotiate and generally call repressive government bluffs. On the micro level, it is a resource that the Government Accountability Project (GAP) has consistently used in challenging gag orders and retaliatory investigations to enforce them. \n\nOn the macro level, however, the anti-gag statute suffers from the same defect as the Lloyd Lafollette Act: it is a right without a remedy. Those victimized by its violation do not have any formal legal access to enforce the right. Further, because it is an annual appropriations rider, it will expire unless specifically passed each year.\n\nPending Senate and House legislation, S.494 and H.R. 1317 respectively, would permanently codify the anti-gag statute’s provisions. The bills also make issuing a gag order without the law’s mandatory addendum/notification requirement a prohibited personnel practice under the CSRA. S. 494 bars Critical Infrastructure Information status from canceling whistleblower rights. H.R. 1317 does not, although H.R. 5112 has an alternate approach to control all pseudo-classification categories.\n"}
{"id": "40454135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40454135", "title": "Australian Journal of Education", "text": "Australian Journal of Education\n\nThe Australian Journal of Education is a peer-reviewed academic journal that publishes papers in the field of education. The journal's editor is Petra Lietz. It has been in publication since 1957 and is currently published by SAGE Publications in association with Australian Council for Educational Research.\n\nThe \"Australian Journal of Education\" is an international peer-reviewed journal publishing research conducted in Australia and internationally to inform educational researchers, as well as educators, administrators and policy-makers, about issues of contemporary concern in education.\n\n\"Australian Journal of Education\" is abstracted and indexed in, among other databases: Australian Education Index, Scopus, and the Social Sciences Citation Index. According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", its 2012 impact factor is 0.351, ranking it 172 out of 216 journals in the category ‘Education & Educational Research’.\n\n"}
{"id": "45346712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45346712", "title": "Bardiya Academy", "text": "Bardiya Academy\n\nBardiya Academy and Polytechnic Research Center is the private boarding school located at Kalika-8, Tilkana, Bardiya, Nepal. It was founded on April 10, 2010 ( चैत्र २८ २०६६ वि.स.). The school has classes from Nursery to Standard Tenth and serves students from different villages like Mainapokhar Rajapur, Badaiya, Phulpur, Sitlabazar, Ganeshpur etc.\n\nThis school was founded in 2010. It was founded by the cooperation of 24 shareholders. Now there are only 13 shareholders. \n"}
{"id": "3219673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3219673", "title": "Bert Vaux", "text": "Bert Vaux\n\nBert Vaux (; born November 19, 1968, Houston, Texas) teaches phonology and morphology at the University of Cambridge. Previously, he taught for nine years at Harvard and three years at University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee. Vaux specializes in phonological theory, dialectology, field methodology, and languages of the Caucasus. Vaux was editor of the journal \"Annual of Armenian Linguistics\" from 2001 to 2006 and is co-editor of the book series \"Oxford Surveys in Generative Phonology\".\n\n\nVaux's Law (as labelled by Avery & Idsardi 2001, Iverson & Salmons 2003), which he first formulated in a 1998 article in \"Linguistic Inquiry\", states that laryngeally unspecified – i.e. voiceless – fricatives become [GW]/[sg] ([Glottal Width]/[spread glottis]) in systems contrasting fricatives without reference to [GW]/[sg]; thus they are to be aspirated or, more technically, to be pronounced with a spread glottis.\n\n\n\nVaux is frequently consulted by the press for linguistic articles. For example, in 2004 he discussed product names that contain place names, such as Coney Island hot dogs. In 2005 he was interviewed in \"USA Today\" regarding the differences in regions of the United States about whether to call carbonated soft drinks \"soda\", or \"pop\", or \"coke\". In 2002–2003 his survey to create a linguistics map for the United States was mentioned in the press. In 2005 the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" mentioned his research about how musician vocabulary affects vocabulary at large.\n\n"}
{"id": "22487942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22487942", "title": "Boston Schoolyard Initiative", "text": "Boston Schoolyard Initiative\n\nBoston Schoolyard Initiative (BSI) is a public private partnership that works to transform the conditions of public schoolyards of Boston Public Schools. BSI, in collaboration with private funders, the City of Boston and Boston Public Schools, uses a community participatory design process to change neglected and unwelcome schoolyards into centers for active school and community use. \n\nBoston Schoolyard Initiative was created in 1995, following community concern and complaint about the conditions in neglected schoolyards. After comprehensive site assessments and outreach to stakeholders including community residents, environmental groups, educators and city officials, a Task Force under leadership of Mayor Thomas Menino recommended the establishment of BSI. The private sector part of the BSI partnerships is a group of philanthropies called the Boston Schoolyard Funders Collaborative. \n\nAs a result of this collaborative effort, BSI has renovated 74 schoolyards into places for active play with modern and safe play equipment and play surfaces. In 2004, observing the need and opportunity to create stronger connections between everyday curriculum and the outdoor environment, the BSI began developing, through a pilot program, concepts and designs for Outdoor Classrooms within schoolyards. The BSI has designed and created 26 Outdoor Classrooms for K-5 schools and 2 in High Schools.\n\nTeachers unfamiliar with working with students outside the school classroom may be concerned that if they take students outside they will lose control of student attention and focus. Through evaluation of student and teacher use of renovated schoolyards and Outdoor Classrooms, the BSI has developed methods to enhance the use of the outdoors in schoolyards to support required school curriculum. \n\nProfessional development workshops and the writing of curriculum are used by BSI to connect programs in science and literacy to the Schoolyard and Outdoor Classroom. Both the schoolyard and Outdoor Classroom have been shown to be a valuable expansion of the learning environment in Boston Public Schools. \n\nThe Boston Schoolyard Initiative supports the design process with a community based Schoolyard Design Workbook, and protocols for maintenance and sustainable use of schoolyards. BSI works with school communities to help schoolyards to become places for Environmental education; summer educational programs; health, fitness and wellness programs; and in some cases sites for community gardening.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30319597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30319597", "title": "CANDLE Synchrotron Research Institute", "text": "CANDLE Synchrotron Research Institute\n\nOfficially the Center for the Advancement of Natural Discoveries using Light Emission, more commonly CANDLE Synchrotron Research Institute, is a project and a research center-institute in Yerevan, Armenia. CANDLE is a project of 3 gigaelectronvolts energy, third generation synchrotron light source for fundamental, industrial and applied research in biology, physics, chemistry, medicine, material and environmental sciences.\n\nOverall the facility is expected to serve more than 40 research groups simultaneously supporting the spectroscopy, scattering, imaging and time resolved experiments.\n\nThe project is claimed to be demanded by international scientific community and is expected to have a vast impact on development of science in Armenia.\n\nThe government of Armenia allocated an area of 20 ha near the town of Abovyan for the upcoming projects of the center.\n\n"}
{"id": "11214208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11214208", "title": "COPE (Boy Scouts of America)", "text": "COPE (Boy Scouts of America)\n\nCOPE is an acronym for Challenging Outdoor Personal Experience, a program in the Boy Scouts of America. It consists of group initiative games, trust events, and high and low ropes course. Some activities involve a group challenge, while others develop individual skills and agility. Participants climb, swing, balance, jump, rappel, and devise solutions to a variety of problems. It is also jokingly called Children On Playground Equipment because of the activities the scouts participate in.\n\nIn 1920, Kurt Hahn established the Salem School, based on principles personal responsibility, kindness, and justice towards developing the fitness and confidence of participants. After being imprisoned in Germany then exiled to Great Britain in 1933, in 1941 Hahn established the Outward Bound program to train people for life by using the challenges of the sea and mountains. The program includes rescue technique and service to people with the motto being, \"Training through the body, not of the body.\" In 1970, Project Adventure began as a curriculum program in Massachusetts, since becoming a clearinghouse for adventure-based programs. In 1975, Scouts from the Pony Express Council experienced NORJAM, the Ropes Course at the 14th World Scout Jamboree in Norway, including Scout executive Parvin Bishop. In 1981, the Pony Express Council built the BSA's first COPE course at the council's Camp Geiger near St. Joseph, Missouri. When Bishop became Director of Program at the BSA National Office, he took the program national and in 1983, the BSA National Council made Project COPE part of the BSA camping program and began offering training through the National Camping School.\n\nIn 1980 a team of staff and volunteers in Pony Express Council developed a Rope Course and Orienteering program under then Scout Executive Parvin Bishop as part of the council's long range planning. Bishop named the new program Project COPE. The following professionals worked with Bishop on building and marketing the Project COPE program in its first few years: Al Vasey, Rich Cole, Curt Palmer, Bill Pennistion and Warren Wenner. The first two years of the Pony Express Council's Project COPE program had two days of ropes course programs and low course events and one day of Orienteering programs. After two years the Project COPE program cut the day of orienteering program. Warren Wenner then a staff member served as the 1st Project COPE Director for the Council's Project program from 1980 to 1983 and also served as the 1st Course Director for National Camp School Camp Project COPE section held at Camp Jayhawk in Kansas. Wenner moved to Heart of America Council and was also the 1st Project COPE director for the Council at Camp Naish in 1984. Bill Penniston another staff member wrote the 1st Program COPE handbook that was edited by both Penniston and Wenner. Both helped national write the 1st national camping standards and national guide book as Project COPE became a national program. Council Staff member Rich Cole served as the Summer Camp COPE in 1980 which was the 1st summer that Project COPE was a program at Camp Gieger. Wenner worked with Rich that first summer serving as Camp Gieger Camp Director. Curt Palmer Council staff member worked across the central region working with councils on building Project COPE courses. He also served on Project COPE National Camp School Staff ( staff member from 1979 to 1983 and \"Scouting\" magazine story Jan-Feb 1983 titled \"Learning to COPE\" ).\n\nEach Project COPE program emphasizes eight goals.\n"}
{"id": "16283149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16283149", "title": "Carleton Washburne", "text": "Carleton Washburne\n\nCarleton Wolsey Washburne (December 2, 1889 – November 28, 1968) \nwas an American educator and education reformer. He served as the superintendent of schools in Winnetka, Illinois, United States from 1919 to 1943 and is most notably associated with the Winnetka Plan that he developed for his district.\n\nCarleton Wolsey Washburne was born in Chicago, Illinois in 1889 to an obstetrician father. His mother was active in political affairs, especially education, and was a friend of innovative educator John Dewey. The family was well-educated, though not particularly wealthy. Washburne was raised Protestant and attended the Francis W. Parker School. Late in his childhood, his family moved to Elkhart, Indiana where Washburne attended a traditional school. During his high school years, Washburne moved back to Chicago to live with his maternal grandfather and study at John Marshall Metropolitan High School. When his immediate family moved to Elgin, Illinois, Washburne followed and finished his high school education there. He initially followed in the family footsteps and studied medicine at the University of Chicago. However, he found little interest in the material and transferred to Stanford University in California, graduating in 1912. Washburne married Heliuz Bigelow Chandler in the same year.\n\nWashburne originally set out on a business venture, but was unsuccessful. Unable to otherwise support his family, he took a position as a teacher in low-income La Puente, California. Seeing the shortcomings of then-prevalent style of instruction, he combined the ideas of Dewey with his experiences at the Francis W. Parker school to create a progressive education curriculum. His work caught the attention of Frederic Burk, the president of the San Francisco State Teachers College, who hired him to teach at the institution's affiliated elementary school. Washburne taught there for five years, serving as head of the science department. While there, he conducted research on preadolescence and studied at the University of California, Berkeley, becoming one of the first recipients of a doctorate in education.\n\nBurk heard of an opening for a superintendent for Winnetka School District 36 in Winnetka, Illinois, and recommended Washburne for the job. Washburne oversaw Winnetka schools from 1919 to 1943. The district only had elementary schools, so Washburne was able to focus on that age group. It was here that he developed the Winnetka Plan, a system of individualized instruction in an ungraded setting. The Winnetka Plan, based on the principles of progressive education, aimed to develop the \"whole child\" and included physical, emotional, social, and intellectual education. The curriculum included both \"common essentials\" (reading, writing, number skills, history, and geography) and \"creative group activities\" such as art, music, literature, and physical education. Washburne collaborated with Francis W. Parker and the North Shore Country Day School to share faculty and curricula. Among his other innovations in Winnetka, he instituted guidance programs in elementary schools, created middle schools, and promoted early childhood education. He served as chairman of the Winnetka Summer School for Teachers and the Winnetka Graduate Teachers College.\n\nStarting in 1928 Washburne led a study, in collaboration with University of Chicago graduate student Mabel Morphett, that attempted to determine the age when a child could reasonably be expected to learn to read. Examining first-grade students in Winnetka schools, they found that children with a mental age of 6.5 years could read successfully. Their findings were published in an education journal in 1931. The study was influential in advancing among American educators the concept that the child's \"reading readiness\" was a critically important factor in the successful teaching of reading. More recent research has suggested that the quality of the instruction a child receives is more important than mental age in determining learning success.\n\nWashburne was one of the founding members of the John Dewey Society in 1935. He served as president of the Progressive Education Association and of the New Education Fellowship. He oversaw the design and completion of the Crow Island School in 1940, which was heralded for its teaching concepts and unique architecture, and is now a National Historic Landmark.\n\nWashburne resigned from the Winnetka School District in 1943 to help the U.S. Army reopen educational facilities in occupied Italy during World War II. He remained there until 1949, playing an important role in reorganizing the Italian public school system. He then accepted an offer to become the director of teacher education at Brooklyn College. In 1961, he joined the Michigan State University College of Education as a distinguished professor, where he taught for the rest of his life.\n\n\nWashburne published many works over his career, including arithmetic lesson pamphlets and book lists. He also published several books:\n\n"}
{"id": "3236072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3236072", "title": "Cowles Center for Dance and the Performing Arts", "text": "Cowles Center for Dance and the Performing Arts\n\nThe Cowles Center for Dance and the Performing Arts (formerly the Minnesota Shubert Performing Arts and Education Center) is a performing arts center and flagship for dance in downtown Minneapolis, Minnesota, United States. The Cowles Center was developed as an incubation project by Artspace Projects, Inc and includes the refurbished 500-seat Goodale Theater (formerly the Sam S. Shubert Theater); the Hennepin Center for the Arts, home to 20 leading dance and performing arts organizations; a state-of-the-art education studio housing a distance learning program; and an atrium connecting the buildings. The Cowles Center is a catalyst for the creation, presentation and education of dance in the Twin Cities.\n\nBoth the Goodale Theater and the Hennepin Center for the Arts (formerly the Minneapolis Masonic Temple) are on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nThe distance learning program began teaching students in 2002. Using IP videoconferencing technologies, it brings artists into classrooms throughout Minnesota, nationally and internationally, creating two-way interactive, real-time teaching environments.\n\nThe Shubert Theatrical Company, run by brothers Levi, Samuel, and Jacob, entered the New York theater scene in 1900 and had become the largest theater owning and producing organization in America by 1920.\n\nWhen Samuel Shubert died in a train wreck in 1905, his brothers memorialized him by naming a few of their new theaters after him. Two of these new theaters opened on the same day in 1910: Saint Paul’s Shubert Theater, which became the Fitzgerald Theater in 1994, and The Samuel S. Shubert Theater in Minneapolis, which reopened as The Cowles Center for Dance and the Performing Arts in September 2011, after a long and dramatic history.\n\nThe Samuel S. Shubert Theater was designed by William Albert Swasey (1864–1940). For its time it was a mid-sized house, consisting of 1,500 seats with two shallow balconies. The front of the building had a Classical Revival façade featuring four pairs of bas-relief columns framing three arched windows at the second-story level. As with many of Swasey’s other buildings, the decorative elements of the façade were made of glazed terra cotta.\n\nThe opening show at Minneapolis’ new Samuel S. Shubert Theatre was \"The White Sister\" starring Viola Allen. Ticket prices ranged from $2.50 to 50 cents.\n\nAlexander G. “Buzz” Bainbridge, a former press agent for Buffalo Bill's Wild West Show and general manager for a Chicago producer of touring shows, became the Shubert's manager in 1910, at the age of 25.\n\nThe Shubert had been conceived as a venue for touring Broadway shows, but those tours stopped in the summer, leaving the theater empty, so, the Shuberts tasked Bainbridge with creating a resident acting ensemble. The Bainbridge Players became a popular year-round attraction. Several of its actors, such as Victory Jory, Gladys George, and Johnny Dilson, went on to successful film careers.\n\nIn 1915, The Shubert began to play movies, accompanied by a 40-piece pit orchestra. In 1918 the flu epidemic closed all Minneapolis theaters. The Shubert remodeled; new lights were installed, the orchestra pit was expanded, and the theater was repainted.\n\nThroughout the 1920s the prevalence and popularity of films began to push out live theater. While the Shubert held on until 1933, it could not withstand the changing of the tides. Bainbridge disbanded his company, and became mayor of Minneapolis from 1933 to 1935.\n\nThe Shubert came back to life as “The Alvin” in 1935, named after its new owner William Alvin Steffes. Steffes added an Art Deco marquee and split the stage time between movies and touring Broadway shows until December 1940, when the theater went under for two months before reincarnating as a burlesque theater.\n\nDespite a fire on July 6, 1941, which necessitated a five-month-long renovation, The Alvin theater kept its doors open as a burlesque theater until 1953. Some of the best known strip-tease artists of the day including Tempest Storm, Candy Barr, and Gypsy Rose Lee performed there. A typical burlesque show offered not only titillation, but entertainment by jugglers, comedians, and variety acts. One of the most noteworthy of these performers was Dudley Riggs, a comedian juggler who went on to found Brave New Workshop, now housed only a few blocks from The Cowles Center.\n\nIn November 1953, the Alvin underwent yet another change when the Reverend Russell H. Olson turned the building into the Minneapolis Evangelistic Auditorium. The church closed only three years later.\n\nThe Shubert came back in 1957 when Ted Mann bought it, converted it into a movie theater, and renamed it The Academy. On July 12, 1957, The Academy hosted the Minneapolis premiere of Minnesota native Michael Todd's \"Around the World in Eighty Days\". Todd, who used to be a candy vendor in the old Shubert Theater, attended the opening with his wife, Elizabeth Taylor.\n\nThe Academy began to struggle as suburban multiplexes replaced single-screen houses, and 1983 brought yet another closing of the theater's doors.\n\nIn 1987, 25% of reported crimes in downtown Minneapolis were committed on Block E, where the Shubert was located. In an effort to combat the increasing crime, the Minneapolis City Council approved guidelines for a redevelopment project. However, the project brought The Shubert under threat of the wrecking ball.\n\nBlock E was razed in 1988 and 1989 except for the Shubert. In 1990, the Heritage Preservation Commission convinced city officials not to demolish the Shubert unless it proved prohibitively expensive to develop Block E with the theater in place. Save Our Shubert wrote letters to editors and held candlelight vigils outside the theater. The Shubert was added to the National Register of Historic places in 1996, leaving Brookfield Development to find a way to incorporate the Shubert into their Block E proposal.\n\nArtspace Vice President Tom Nordyke had the idea to move the Shubert out of the way, solving the issue in a way that benefited preservationists, developers, and the arts community. Bakke Kopp Ballou and McFarlin Inc of Minneapolis concluded that the option of moving a 6-million-pound building a few blocks was, in fact, feasible.\n\nIt took twelve days to move the theater from Block E to its new Hennepin Avenue location in February 1999. At 5.8 million pounds, it was the heaviest building ever moved on rubber tires, and holds a Guinness World Record for this accomplishment.\n\nThe Shubert was too large to be moved on city streets, but the only things between it and its new home were parking lots. Renovation of the building at its new location created The Cowles Center for the Performing Arts.\n\nThe refurbished Goodale Theater with 505 seats (216 orchestra level, 289 Grand Tier level) offer guests intimate, unobstructed views of the entire stage with no seat further than 65 feet from center stage. Each row of seats arcs semi-circularly to face center stage.\n\nOrnate columns of cherrywood and historic architectural details frame the proscenium arch. Floors throughout the backstage area are covered with a special linoleum that allows ballet performers to walk from dressing rooms to the stage without removing their toe shoes. The spacious backstage spaces and dressing rooms allow maximum flexible space to support a wide variety of companies and performance needs. The orchestra pit accommodates up to 42 musicians and adds the dimension of live orchestral music. The orchestra pit can also be adjusted to add two additional rows of seating in the house. The stage is large enough to provide choreographers with ample space in the wings to perform large-scale productions. The stage also includes a full-size stage house with 52 riggings that can support extensive and elaborate set designs.\n\nThe main entrance to The Cowles Center houses the box office and information desk, concession space, donor wall, and entrances to the Goodale Theater and The Hennepin Center for the Arts.\nA Labanotation wall art piece inspired by Rites of Spring hangs above the concession area. Developed by dance artist and theorist Rudolf Laban (1878–1958), Labanotation is a way of writing down dance which is analogous to the way music notation is a way of writing down music. Labanotation uses symbols to represent points on a dancer's body, the direction of the dancer's movements, the tempo, and the dynamics.\n\nThe studio was designed specifically for dance with a sprung maple floor, studio lighting and a wall of mirrors. It houses the center's long distance learning program. Using video conferencing technology, the center brings artists into classrooms to create two-way, interactive, real-time teaching environments. Thanks to generous funding, the center is also able to provide free sessions to Minnesota schools.\n\nThe Cowles Center inaugural season spanned the fall of 2011 and the spring of 2012 and brought a variety of Minnesota dance companies to the same venue. Dance companies which performed in the 2011–12 season included:\n\nThe inaugural season also included Cantus, and a performance by New York-based dancers Kegwin + Company.\n\n"}
{"id": "52974142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52974142", "title": "Creative Cities Network", "text": "Creative Cities Network\n\nThe UNESCO Creative Cities Network (UCCN) is a project of UNESCO launched in 2004 to promote cooperation among cities which recognized creativity as a major factor in their urban development. , there are 180 cities from 72 countries in the network.\n\nThe network aims to foster mutual international cooperation with and between member cities committed to invest in creativity as a driver for sustainable urban development, social inclusion and cultural vibrancy. The Network recognizes the following creative fields:\n\nThe overall situation and activities within the Network is reported in the UCCN Membership Monitoring Reports, each for a 4-year period for a particular city.\n\nThe Network recognizes the concept of creative tourism, defined as travel associated with creative experience and participation.\n"}
{"id": "1478481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1478481", "title": "Davis Waldorf School", "text": "Davis Waldorf School\n\nThe Davis Waldorf School is a Waldorf school located in Davis, California, United States. It was founded in 1986 by a group of parents who wanted a Waldorf education for their children. The school offers classes and programs serving 205 students in preschool through eighth grade.\n\nIn the fall of 1992, the school was able to move from its first rural site to its current campus in North Davis. The new classroom buildings were designed to support the principles of Waldorf education and include many environmentally sound features such as rammed-earth walls formed of native California clays, natural cork flooring, natural lighting, passive solar and radiant heating and the use of plant-based paint where possible.\n\nIn the summer of 2010, the school added several new buildings. A two classroom kindergarten building, a multi-purpose building, and a new office building. The buildings are prefabricated purpose built buildings, rather than the 'portables' that are in use in many schools in the US.\n\nThe school follows a typical curriculum for Waldorf schools in California. Due to the agricultural nature of the Davis area, and the number of organic farms in the area, gardening and field trips to work on farms are a natural program. Davis Waldorf students raised money to start a kindergarten in Tanzania.\n\nThe school has a music program, that includes workshops for the broader community.\n\nThe schedule of classes is different every day of the week, and the schedule repeats each week. Because of the small number of students in each class, all students share all their classes with all the other children in their grade, with the exception of the different levels of Spanish, Algebra, and Orchestra/Band.\n\n"}
{"id": "1107734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1107734", "title": "Deschooling", "text": "Deschooling\n\nDeschooling, a term rooted in the beliefs of Ivan Illich, is the shift from a traditional, government-influenced institution of schooling to a less-restricted method of learning that focuses on being educated by one's natural curiosities.\n\nDeschooling is mainly accredited to Ivan Illich, who felt that the traditional schooling children received needed to be reconstructed. He believed that schools contained a \"hidden curriculum\" that caused learning to align with grades and accreditation rather than important skills. Illich believed that the modern school is grounded on a foundation that is focused on growing schools as an industrialized system. Rather than focusing on the needs of the children, it is more heavily focused on the aggrandizement of the school system. Illich communicated that the school system has formed a toxic industry that specializes in what families should be capable of forming themselves, namely education. According to Illich, schools align success on paper with academic excellence. He presumed that schools, grades, and diplomas gave false assumptions that the students have become knowledgeable in a certain educational concept. \n\nJohn Holt was another thinker who believed in deschooling. His thoughts were closely aligned with Illich because neither were convinced that school was the place that taught students everything they needed to know. Instead, they communicated that school was not the sole avenue for learning because students learn consistently through other facets, such as exposure to the natural world. As a result, Illich and Holt saw schools as being insufficient because of their focus on strictly doing \"skill drill\" instead of other methods of learning. Additionally, theorist of deschooling saw education as maintaining the social order. Therefore, they wanted to \"denounce the monopoly that traditional education institutions held on education and learning.\" \n\n\"Deschooling\" a person does not mean disregarding the act of learning or studying in schools. Illich and Holt's image of a deschooling society would ensure that everybody has his or her own decision as to whether or not they go to school. Rather than being forced to go to school, taking a test before entering a school, being denied the opportunity to learn a desired topic, people would be free to choose how they learn. According to John Holt, an advocate for deschooling, \"a deschooled society would be a society in which everyone shall have the widest and freest possible choice to learn whatever he wants to learn, whether in school or in some altogether different way.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "58703660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58703660", "title": "Economic Warfare School", "text": "Economic Warfare School\n\nThe Economic Warfare School (EGE in French) is a French academic curriculum dedicated to competitive intelligence.\n\nThe Economic Warfare School was created in October 1997 by General Officer Jean Pichot-Duclos, former head of the French Army Intelligence Training Centre and Christian Harbulot Chief Operating Officer for competitive intelligence at DCI group.\nThe Economic Warfare School offers MBA program specialized in Competitive intelligence and Strategy for students who have graduated from prestigious schools and universities. It also offers a one-year professional program for senior managers.\n\nThe curriculum and research program of the Economic Warfare School are based on a forward-looking risk management methodology which goes beyond those traditionally used by corporate management and market competition theories so that they are specifically tailored to suit decision-makers' needs.\n\nThe unique academic approach of the school combines constant production of knowledge, investigation and use of information technologies. Throughout their entire program the students work for the benefit of real actors of the public and private sector allowing them to face the reality and responsibilities of their future jobs.\n\nThis unique teaching programme makes it one of the most renowned school in its field worldwilde and enables its graduates to be directly operational for competitive and business intelligence activities.\nThe Economic Warfare School is ranked at the 1st place since 2002 in the Eduniversal SMBG ranking for the best Masters and MBA in Competitive Intelligence. \n\nGagliano Giuseppe, Historical origins of the french school of economic warfare,Socrates Journal,vol.4,2016 \n"}
{"id": "5444044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5444044", "title": "Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre", "text": "Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre\n\nThe Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre (\"Eesti Muusika- ja Teatriakadeemia\") began as a mixed choir of the Estonia Society Musical Department (EMD) on the eve of World War I. The assembly of the Estonia Society created the Tallinn Higher Music School on November 17, 1918. The opening ceremony took place on September 28, 1919. In 1923 the educational institution was renamed the Tallinn Conservatoire. In 1938 the State Drama School was opened. In 1993 the school was renamed the “Estonian Academy of Music”. In 1995 the Drama Faculty was renamed the Higher Theatre School.\n\nSome prominent graduates of the Estonian Academy of Music include singers Aile Asszonyi, Heli Lääts, and Ain Anger, conductors Roman Matsov, Tõnu Kaljuste, Olari Elts, Eri Klas, and Kristiina Poska, composers Arvo Pärt, Lepo Sumera, Erkki-Sven Tüür and Ardo Ran Varres, director Andres Puustusmaa, and actors Tõnu Aav, Heino Mandri, Elmo Nüganen, Ain Lutsepp, Margus Oopkaup, Jan Uuspõld and Taavi Eelmaa.\n\nThe Tallinn Higher Music School was the predecessor of the current EAMT, with the opening ceremony taking place on September 28, 1919, in the Estonia Concert Hall. From 1919–1923 the Principal of the school was Mihkel Lüdig.\n\nIn 1923 it was renamed to Tallinn Conservatoire. The academic level of the Conservatoire can be considered to have been relatively high, as many of its students participated in international competitions in the 1930s. The most successful of them was Tiit Kuusik, who was awarded the first prize at the International Singing Competition in Vienna in 1938.\n\nThe Conservatoire became nationalised in 1935. In 1938 the State Drama School was opened.\n\nFollowing the arrival of German occupation powers, the Conservatoire struggled to restore its earlier teaching activities. During the March 9, 1944 air raid, the building of the Conservatoire, as well as most of its equipment, was almost completely destroyed. In November 1944, following another change of power, the Conservatoire was reopened.\n\nThe Conservatoire’s creative environment began to see revival in the mid-1950s. In 1957 the Drama Faculty was established at the Conservatoire, with Voldemar Panso becoming its first head. \n\nIn 1989, its former name – the “Tallinn Conservatoire” – was restored. Four years later the school was renamed the “Estonian Academy of Music” (Eesti Muusikaakadeemia).\n\nIn 1992 an extensive reform of the study structure was introduced and the school adopted a subject-based study system. Degree studies were introduced enabling students of the four-year program would receive a bachelor’s degree. In 1993, a two-year master´s degree program was added. In 1996 a four-year doctoral program in musicology was introduced, whereas in 2000 specific curricula were designed for performers and composers. In 2006 a new program for dramatic art was added, which also has a creative emphasis.\n\nSince 1999 the Estonian Academy of Music is based in a building located in the center of Tallinn. \n\nSince 2002, it offers a Joint MA in Cultural Management in collaboration with the Estonian Academy of Arts and Estonian Business School. \n\nThe present name of the academy – Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre – was adopted in 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "2950160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2950160", "title": "Filarete", "text": "Filarete\n\nAntonio di Pietro Averlino (; c. 1400 – c. 1469), also \"Averulino\", known as Filarete (; from , meaning \"lover of excellence\"), was a Florentine Renaissance architect, sculptor, medallist, and architectural theorist. He is perhaps best remembered for his design of the ideal city of Sforzinda, the first ideal city plan of the Renaissance.\n\nAntonio di Pietro Averlino was born c. 1400 in Florence where he probably trained as a craftsman. Sources suggest that he worked in Florence under the Italian painter, architect, and biographer Lorenzo Ghiberti, who gave him his more famous name “Filarete” which means “a lover of virtue”. In the mid 15th century, Filarete was expelled from Rome after being accused of attempting to steal the head of John the Baptist and he moved to Venice and then eventually to Milan. There he became a ducal engineer and worked on a variety of architectural projects for the next fifteen years. According to his biographer, Vasari, Filarete died in Rome c. 1469.\n\nA commission granted by Pope Eugene IV meant that Filarete, over the course of twelve years, cast the bronze central doors for Old St. Peter's Basilica in Rome, which were completed in 1445. Although they were created during the Renaissance, the doors have distinct Byzantine influences and seem tied to the Medieval era. Some critics have noted that the doors offer a glimpse into the mind of Filarete, claiming that they show his “mind of medieval complexity crammed full of exciting but not quite assimilated classical learning”.\n\nIn Milan Filarete built the Ospedale Maggiore (c. 1456), the overall form of which was rationally planned as a cross within a square, with the hospital church at the center of the plan. Some of the surviving sections of the much-rebuilt structure show the Gothic detail of Milan's \"quattrocento\" craft traditions, which are at odds with Filarete's design \"all'antica\" or \"after the Antique\". Filarete also worked on the Castello Sforzesco or Sforza Castle and on the Duomo di Milano or Milan Cathedral.\n\nFilarete completed his substantial book on architecture sometime around 1464, which he referred to as his \"Libro architettonico\" (\"Architectonic book\"). Neither he nor his immediate contemporaries ever referred to it as a \"Trattato\" (\"Treatise\"), though it is usually now called such. The \"Libro\", which comprises twenty-five volumes, enjoyed a fairly wide circulation in manuscript form during the Renaissance. The most well known and best preserved copy of the \"Libro\" is a profusely illustrated manuscript known as the \"Codex Magliabechiano\" (probably drafted c. 1465; now held in the archives of the Biblioteca Nazionale Centrale di Firenze). The fact that the \"Codex Magliabechiano\" is dedicated to Piero de' Medici and was conserved in Florence suggests that Filarete was well regarded in his native Florence despite his loyalty to Milan. The book, which is written as a fictional narrative, consists principally of a detailed account of the technical aspects of architecture (e.g., site and material selection, drawing, construction methods, and so on) and a sustained polemic against the Gothic style of Northern Italy, which Filarete calls the \"barbarous modern style.\" Filarete argues instead for the use of classical Roman models.\n\nThe most famous part of his book is his plan for Sforzinda, an ideal city named after Francesco Sforza, then Duke of Milan. Although Sforzinda was never built, certain aspects of its design are described in considerable detail. The basic layout of the city is an eight-point star, created by overlaying two squares so that all the corners were equidistant. This shape is then inscribed within a perfect circular moat. This shape is iconographic and probably ties to Filarete’s interest in magic and astrology. Consistent with \"Quattrocento\" or fifteenth century notions concerning the talismanic power of geometry and the crucial importance of astrology, Filarete provides, in addition to pragmatic advice on materials, construction, and fortifications, notes on how to propitiate celestial harmony within Sforzinda. His architectonical drawings and even more his allegorical drawings traced on the margins of the Codex Magliabechianus - such as the Allegory of Vertue and the Allegory of the Reason and Will - Filarete shows a remarkable possession of classical sources, maybe known also through the advice of his friend Francesco Filelfo da Tolentino, the main humanist then at the court of Milan.\n\nIn terms of planning, each of the outer points of the star had towers, while the inner angles had gates. Each of the gates was an outlet of radial avenues that each passed through a market square, dedicated to certain goods. All the avenues finally converged in a large square which was centrally located. The town contained three squares – one for the prince’s palace, one for the cathedral, and one for the market. Because the Renaissance was much taken with the idea of the canal town, in Filarete's Sforzinda every other street had a canal for cargo transport. The canal system also connected with the river, and thus the outside world, for the import and export of goods. The city also contained many buildings, including parishes and separate schools for boys and girls. An example of a building that appears in the treatise is Filarete’s House of Vice and Virtue, a ten-storey structure with a brothel on the bottom and an academy of learning on the higher levels. Filarete did much study on representation of Vices and Virtues, and there are suggestions that his radial design for the city was inspired by St. Augustine’s Earthly City, whose circular shape was divided into sections, each of which had its own Vice and Virtue.\n\nThe design of Sforzinda may have been in part a direct response to the Italian cities of the Medieval period, whose growth did not necessarily depend on city planning as such, which meant they could be difficult to navigate. In part, the Renaissance humanist interest in classical texts may have stimulated preoccupations with geometry in city layouts, as for example, in Plato's description of Atlantis. Filarete’s ideal plan was meant to reflect on society – where a perfect city form would be the image of a perfect society, an idea that was typical of the humanist views prevalent during the High Renaissance. The Renaissance ideal city implied the centralized power of a prince in its organization, an idea following closely on the heels of Dante’s that “The human race is at its best under a monarch.” Thus it could be argued that the Renaissance ideal city form was tensioned between the perceived need for a centralized power and the potential reality of tyranny.\n\nFilarete's plan of Sforzinda was the first ideal city plan of the Renaissance and his thorough organization of its layout embodied a greater level of conscious city planning than anyone before him. Despite the many references to medieval symbolism incorporated into Sforzinda's design, the city's principles became the archetype for the humanist city during the High Renaissance. The treatise gained interest from many important leaders such as Giangaleazzo Sforza and Piero de' Medici and later when Francesco di Giorgio and Leonardo da Vinci began to plan their ideal cities they borrowed ideas from Filarete.\n\nAlthough it was never built, Sforzinda served as an inspiration for many future city plans. For example, in the 16th century, Renaissance military engineers and architects combined Filarete's ideal city schemes with defensive fortifications deriving from a more sociopolitical agenda. This notion of combining the ideal and the fortified city became widely disseminated throughout Europe and beyond.\n\n"}
{"id": "923805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=923805", "title": "Fle3", "text": "Fle3\n\nFle3 is a Web-based learning environment or virtual learning environment. More precisely Fle3 is server software for computer supported collaborative learning (CSCL).\n\nFle3 is designed to support learner and group centered work that concentrates on creating and developing expressions of knowledge (i.e. knowledge artefacts). Fle3 supports study groups to implement knowledge building, creative problem solving and scientific method in an inquiry learning process, for example the progressive inquiry method.\n\nFle3 user interface is translated to more than 20 languages including most of the European languages and Chinese. Fle3 is used in more than 70 countries.\n\nFle3 is a Zope product, written in Python. Fle3 is open-source and free software released under the GNU General Public Licence (GPL).\n\nThe abbreviation FLE comes from the words Future Learning Environment. The number 3 in the name refers to the number of times the software has been built from scratch.\n\nWhen Fle3 was released in 2002 the developers were claiming that the name comes from \"Fle3 is a Learning Environment\", with intertextual reference to the name GNU (GNU is Not Unix).\n\nFle3 provides various tab-accessed screens affording functionality considered important for progressive inquiry.\n\nFle3 WebTops the interface that scaffolds students' storing, organizing and sharing their own knowledge resources including documents, files, links and notes.\n\nFle3 Knowledge Building the interface that scaffolds students' knowledge building (and associated) discourse. Knowledge Building tool provides Knowledge Types to scaffold and structure the process.\n\nFle3 Jamming tool is the interface that scaffolds members of a group to collaboratively construct and improve digital artifacts such as pictures, text, audio and videos. Key features of this include the ability of a user to upload the artifact, assign sharing permission and finally the graphical representation of the versioning history of the artifact.\n\nThere are also interfaces that scaffold teachers and administrators to manage users and analyze student/project activity.\n\nAn important feature of the Knowledge Building tool is the knowledge type sets that are scaffolding and structuring the discussions. For instance, for a progressive inquiry learning teachers may use knowledge type set designed for this purpose. Progressive Inquiry knowledge type set contains the following five knowledge types: \"Problem\", \"My Explanation\", \"Scientific Explanation\", \"Evaluation of the Process\" and \"Summary\". Every time a pupil is posting something to the discussion, she must choose what knowledge type her note represents.\n\nThe knowledge types guides pupils to think adequate and important things related to the process, and this way helps them to write more substantial notes to the discussion forum. As an aid for users to follow the knowledge building discourse, users may take different views to the knowledge building discussion by sorting the notes as a discussion thread, by writer, by knowledge type, or by date.\n\nThe Knowledge Building tool contains two default knowledge type sets: (1) Progressive Inquiry, and (2) Design Thinking. Depending on the selected knowledge types set, users get guidelines and a checklist on how to write their notes to the discussion forum. Each knowledge type is also color-coded making them fast to recognize and learn.\n\nDevelopment of Fle3 software was started in 1998 in a Future Learning Environment (https://archive.is/20130213114740/http://fle.uiah.fi/) research and development project in Media Lab, Helsinki, Finland. Fle3 software is based on the Future Learning Environment concept promoting learning process, which differs from traditional teacher and didactic-based teaching by emphasising students active role in a learning process.\n\nThe objective was to study alternative approaches of using information and communication technologies (ICT) in teaching and learning, and to design alternative learning practices and tools. At that time, the strong e-learning movement was seen to promote rather naïve conception of human learning. The acquisition metaphor of learning, which emphasizes learning as a process where students are supplied with pieces of knowledge (Sfard 1998), was getting stronger.\n\nThe researchers of the FLE project brought to the discussion more advanced conceptions of learning, such as participation metaphor (Sfard 1998) and knowledge creation metaphor (Paavola et al. 2002). However, the objective of the FLE project was not only to bring new theoretical approaches to the discussion, but also to design learning practices and technology based on the theories. The results of this work culminated in the progressive inquiry learning model (Hakkarainen et al. 2001; Muukkonen et al. 1999; 2005) and in the Fle3 software (http://fle3.uiah.fi).\n\nThe history of virtual learning environments shows how the e-learning and Learning Management Systems (LMS), with course-centred outlook and focus on delivery of learning content, was, and is probably still, the mainstream approach to use of ICT in education. Although in mid-2000 the growing popularity of blogs and wikis and the consideration how they could be used in teaching and learning has led the mainstream research and development community of virtual learning to re-consider the existing e-learning paradigms.\n\nIn the late 1990s the research, development and design team members of the first FLE project were greatly influenced by the work of Carl Bereiter and Marlene Scardamalia, and their concept of Knowledge building. In the design of FLE software, Bereiter's and Scardamalia's Computer-Supported Intentional Learning Environment (CSILE) was used as a reference.\n\nHowever, there are also many differences between the two software. For instance, already in the early design specifications of FLE there was the idea of shared artefacts that are collaboratively constructed alongside the knowledge building activities. In FLE vocabulary the activity, and the tool supporting it, is called “jamming”. Also the idea of archiving the results of the study work and to make them then available for other study groups makes FLE very different from the CSILE, which was primary designed to be a system used in a classroom. Another difference is related to the Web. From the very beginning FLE has been web-based system, and has taken in use all the advantages the flexible platform is offering, whereas the original CSILE was a client-server system.\n\nThe first prototype server with FLE software was set up in 1998 and announced in early 1999. The software was named to be Fle-Tools. The software was designed in Media Lab in Helsinki but programmed by a Finnish company called NSD Consulting Oy.\n\nFle-Tools was developed in a Future Learning Environment project funded by Tekes - the National Technology Agency of Finland. The project partners were Media Lab of the University of Art and Design Helsinki (coordinator), Centre for Research on Networked Learning and Knowledge Building in the Department of Psychology of the University of Helsinki, Finnish Ministry of Education, Finnish new media company Grey Interactive, Finnish teleoperator Sonera, and Finnish educational publisher SanomaWSOY.\n\nFle-Tools was described to be: (1) www-based service for computer supported collaborative learning (CSCL); (2) on-line learning community and teamwork environment; (3) collection of server-based applications and databases and (4) cross-platform for end users (www-browser in Linux, Mac, Win PC, WebTV, Nokia Communicator, etc.). The tools of Fle3-Tools were:\n\n\nIn 1999 Fle-Tools was tested in several university course at the University of Helsinki and the University of Art and Design Helsinki. The results form the pilots were published in scientific conferences and journals.\n\nIn the end of 1999, The Finnish operator Sonera, who was a key partner in the Future Learning Environment project, decided to draw back from the project and started to develop their own product based on Fle-Tools. This resulted as a breakdown of the original Future Learning Environment research and development project.\n\n The next generation FLE software was developed during the years 1999–2001. Because of the collapse of the original Future Learning Environment project consortium in 1999 the research and design partners felt that they must continue the FLE development on their own.\n\nIn 2000 the Fle2 project got funding from the Nordic Council of Ministers NordUnet 2 program. The partners of the project were Media Lab in Helsinki, Department of Communication, Journalism and Computer Science of Roskilde University in Denmark, and Department of Psychology of the University of Helsinki.\n\nThe new software was named Fle2 and released online for free downloading in April 2001. Fle2 was based on the design of Fle-Tools, but this time the software development and programming was carried-out in Media Lab Helsinki. The Fle2 was built on top of the BSCW - Basic Support for Cooperative Work software developed by the Fraunhofer Society in Germany.\n\nThe tools of Fle2 were personal WebTops and Knowledge Building. Th Fle2 did not have Jam Session or Library tools of the earlier Fle-Tools. In the Fle2 WebTop there were two new features compared to the earlier Fle-Tools: (1) \"yellow notes\" made it possible to add notes to other people WebTops when visiting them, and (2) chat with whiteboard for chating and drawing with other users online.\n\nIn 2002 the design and development team in Helsinki realized that BSCW was not the right platform for developing the FLE software. The main reason for giving up the development of Fle2 on top of the BSCW was the fact that BSCW was not an Open Source / Free Software.\n\nFle3 is the third and the latest version of FLE software. The first version of Fle3 was released on February 15, 2002. The latest version 1.5 was released in April 2005.\n\nFle3 was largely developed in the Innovative Technology for Collaborative Learning and Knowledge Building (ITCOLE) project, funded by the European Commission in the Information Society Technologies (IST) framework's 'School of Tomorrow' program.\n\nThe ITCOLE project was coordinated by the Media Lab in Helsinki. The technical development partners included the developers of BSCW – Basic Support for Cooperative Work in Fraunhofer Society and Department of Computer Science of the University of Murcia in Spain. Testing of different software in schools was coordinated by Helsinki City Education Department and pedagogical research was carried out by researcher from University of Helsinki, University of Amsterdam, University of Salerno, University of Rome La Sapienza, University of Athens and University of Utrecht.\n\nIn the ITCOLE project there were several parallel software development projects. At first Fle3 was developed in Media Lab in Helsinki as a user interface and interaction demonstration for the main software development taking place in Fraunhofer and based on their BSCW system. The University of Murcia's main task was to develop the synchronous communications tools, which were then integrated experimentally to BSCW and Fle3. The software based on BSCW was named at first Synergeia and later BSCL (Basic Support for Collaborative Learning).\n\nDuring the course of the project Fle3 was found user friendly, accessible, and technically reliable for a wider use. This way it ended up to be not only a UI and interaction prototype but also software of its own. Finally Fle3 became one of the main results of the ITCOLE project.\n\nThere has been no noticeable development in the Fle3 project since 2006.\n\nThe core component of FLE3, the scaffolded knowledge-building discussion board, was re-created as a simple plugin in WordPress, the ubiquitous open source web server system. FLE4 was not intended to be a new system, but instead a re-implementation of the most important element of the previous system in a very user-friendly technology. Two sets of scaffolds are available in FLE4: Knowledge Building with its 5 knowledge types and de Bono's Six Hat Thinking with its 6 knowledge types.\n\nIn 2013, a map view was added, providing an automatically generated 2D view of the discussion in which users can both view and post. While FLE4 is not under active development (2015), occasional updates and bug fixes are released.\n\nLeinonen, T. & Muukkonen, H (1998). Future Learning Environment – Innovative Methods and Applications for Collaborative Learning. Arttu Magazine. Taideteollinen korkeakoulu 1998.\n\nLeinonen, T., Kligyte, G. et.all (2003). Learning with Collaborative Software – A guide to Fle3. Helsinki, Taideteollinen korkeakoulu 2003. . Translated to Italian and Spanish.\n\nHakkarainen, K., Lonka, K. & Lipponen, L. (2001). Tutkiva oppiminen. Älykkään toiminnan rajat ja niiden ylittäminen. Porvoo, WSOY.\n\nMuukkonen, H., Hakkarainen, K., & Lakkala, M. (1999). Collaborative Technology for Facilitating Progressive Inquiry: Future Learning Environment Tools. In C. Hoadley & J. Roschelle (Eds.), Proceedings of the CSCL '99: The Third International Conference on Computer Support for Collaborative Learning on title: Designing New Media for A New Millennium: Collaborative Technology for Learning, Education, and Training (pp. 406–415). Mahwah, NJ: Erlbaum. Available online\n\nMuukkonen, H., Lakkala, M., & Hakkarainen, K. (2005). Technology-mediation and tutoring: how do they shape progressive inquiry discourse? The Journal of the Learning Sciences, 14(4), 527–565.\n\nPaavola, S., Lipponen, L. & Hakkarainen, K. (2002). Epistemological Foundations for CSCL: A Comparison of Three Models of Innovative Knowledge Communities. In Gerry Stahl (ed.) Computer Support for Collaborative Learning: Foundations for a CSCL Community, Proceedings of: CSCL 2002 (January 7–11, 2002, Boulder, Colorado, USA). Distributed by Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Inc., Hilldale, New Jersey, USA.\n\nSfard, A. (1998). On two metaphors for learning and the dangers of choosing just one. Educational Researcher, 27(2), 4–13.\n"}
{"id": "26522980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26522980", "title": "Forbes Magazine's List of America's Best Colleges", "text": "Forbes Magazine's List of America's Best Colleges\n\nIn 2008, Forbes.com began publishing an annual list of \"America's Best Colleges\". Post-graduate success (self-reported salaries of alumni from PayScale, and data from the federal Department of Education) constitutes 35% of the score. Student debt loads constitute 20% of the score. Student experience (retention rates reported by the Department of Education, and data from Niche) constitutes 20% of the score. Graduation rates constitute 12.5% of the score. Academic success (using both the percentage of a school's student body that goes on to obtain doctorate degrees, and those students who have won one of a diverse array of prestigious academic awards) constitutes 12.5%. Public reputation is not considered, which causes some colleges to score lower than in other lists. A three-year moving average is used to smooth out the scoring.\n\nStarting in 2013, four schools that had admitted to misreporting admissions data were removed from the list for two years. The four removed colleges were Bucknell University, Claremont McKenna College, Emory University, and Iona College.\n"}
{"id": "19988567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19988567", "title": "Getty Vocabulary Program", "text": "Getty Vocabulary Program\n\nThe Getty Vocabulary Program is a department within the Getty Research Institute at the Getty Center in Los Angeles, California. It produces and maintains the Getty controlled vocabulary databases, Art and Architecture Thesaurus, Union List of Artist Names, and Getty Thesaurus of Geographic Names. They are compliant with ISO and NISO standards for thesaurus construction. The Getty vocabularies are the premiere references for categorizing works of art, architecture, material culture, and the names of artists, architects, and geographic names. They have been the life work of many people and continue to be critical contributions to cultural heritage information management and documentation. They contain terms, names, and other information about people, places, things, and concepts relating to art, architecture, and material culture. They can be accessed online free of charge on the Getty website.\n\nThe Getty vocabularies can be used in three ways: at the data entry stage, by catalogers or indexers who are describing works of art, architecture, material culture, archival materials, visual surrogates, or bibliographic materials; as knowledge bases, providing information for researchers; and as search assistants to enhance end-user access to online resources. The Getty vocabularies are available in MARC format for easy mapping.\n\nThe Getty Vocabulary Program has been active within the library community, offering training on thesaurus construction and training on contributing via Getty online webforms. These opportunities are held during annual conferences of organizations such as Art Libraries Society of North America (ARLIS), Visual Resources Association (VRA), American Library Association (ALA), International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions (IFLA), NFAIS, Society of American Archivists (SAA), and Museum Computer Network (MCN).\n\nEditorial work has been managed by the Getty since 1983. In 1987 the Getty created a department dedicated to compiling and distributing terminology called the Vocabulary Coordination Group, now known as the Getty Vocabulary Program, which was within the Getty Information Institute. The data is compiled and edited in an editorial system that was custom-built by Getty technical staff to meet the unique requirements of compiling data from many contributors, building complex and changing polyhierarchies, merging, moving, and publishing in various formats. Final editorial control of the Vocabularies are maintained by the Getty Vocabulary Program, using well-established editorial rules. They are now published in automated formats only, in both a searchable online Web interface and in data files available for licensing.\n\nSince 1998, Getty Information Technology Services and Web Services have worked closely with the Getty Vocabulary Program to conceive, develop, deploy, and continuously enhance the technologies necessary to support the growth and usage of the vocabulary databases. Three major projects comprise the work completed to date. First, the Vocabulary Coordination System (VCS) project created a single production system that replaced three separate, outdated and disparate data collection and editorial systems that had been used to produce the three vocabularies. The new, more powerful production engine allows Getty staff to efficiently collect, analyze, edit, merge and distribute terminology from Getty departments, as well as from external collaborating institutions. Second, the Vocabularies on the Web project produced unified Web-based access to the three Getty vocabularies and made them available to hundreds of thousands of researchers, scholars, and members of the general public who are interested in the subject areas covered by the vocabularies. This project also enhanced security to protect the Getty’s intellectual property, and added measurement metrics to allow the Getty to gauge the usage volume, usage patterns, and the success of these efforts. Finally, the Vocabulary Contributions project created processes and procedures for making use of and contributing to the vocabulary databases an integral part of the work in all relevant Getty and external projects.\n\nIn 2000, the Getty Vocabulary Program was moved from its Santa Monica office to its current location within the Getty Research Institute at the Getty Center.\n\nThe Getty Vocabulary Program won the Computerworld Honors for 2007 in the category of Media Arts and Entertainment for Web-Based Global Art Resources.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1674057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1674057", "title": "Institute for Research in Philosophy", "text": "Institute for Research in Philosophy\n\nThe Iran Research Institute of Philosophy (IRIP) (Persian: مؤسسه پژوهشی حکمت و فلسفه ایران) is a Public research institute in Tehran, Iran.\n\nIn September 1974, Farah Pahlavi Empress of Iran commissioned her personal secretary Hossein Nasr, Head of the Empress's Private Bureau, to establish and lead the Imperial Iranian Academy of Philosophy. It was the first academic institution to be founded upon the principles of philosophical Traditionalism. Nasr was a Professor of History of Science and Philosophy at University of Tehran who also served for several years as President of Sharif University of Technology in Iran.\n\nWilliam Chittick, who is a renowned scholar of Sufi thought, literature, and Islamic philosophy, completed his PhD in Persian literature at Tehran University in 1974. He then taught comparative religion at the Humanities Department at Sharif University and left Iran just before the revolution in 1979. He was also for a short period before the revolution an assistant professor at it. He has also served as assistant editor of \"Encyclopædia Iranica\" and is currently professor of Religious Studies at the State University of New York at Stony Brook. Chittick has had collaborations with Seyyed Hossein Nasr and Allameh Tabatabaei on several projects.\n\n"}
{"id": "22066200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22066200", "title": "J. Sterling Livingston", "text": "J. Sterling Livingston\n\nJ. Sterling Livingston (June 7, 1916 – February 14, 2010) was an American entrepreneur, management consultant, and professor at the Harvard Business School for 25 years.\n\nSterling was born in Salt Lake City, Utah on June 7, 1916, and grew up in and near Chino, Glendale and Pomona, California. He worked as a wiper on board a cargo ship, then attended Glendale Junior College, the University of Southern California and the Harvard Business School, where he received his Master of Business Administration in 1940. During the Second World War he taught the Navy Supply Corps.\n\nFollowing the war Sterling received his PhD in Business Administration from Harvard, where he became a professor and taught for 25 years. His articles \"Myth of the Well-Educated Manager\" and \"Pygmalion in Management\" were published in the \"Harvard Business Review\". He founded or co-founded several consulting companies including the Logistics Management Institute.\n\nSterling died on February 14, 2010, and was buried at the Columbia Gardens Cemetery in Arlington, Virginia.\n\n"}
{"id": "47864082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47864082", "title": "Jennifer duBois", "text": "Jennifer duBois\n\nJennifer duBois (born August 25, 1983) is an American novelist. She is the winner of a 2013 Whiting Award and has been named a \"5 Under 35\" honoree by the National Book Foundation.\n\nduBois is a graduate of Tufts University and the Iowa Writers’ Workshop. From 2009 to 2011, she was a Stegner Fellow at Stanford University. She now teaches at Texas State University.\n\nduBois' work has appeared in \"Narrative\", \"The Missouri Review\", and elsewhere.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25429381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25429381", "title": "John Franklin Botume", "text": "John Franklin Botume\n\nJohn Franklin Botume (November 21, 1855 – October 17, 1917) was a singer, choir director and vocal pedagogist. He is the author of several books on singing including \"Modern Singing Methods: Their Use and Abuse\" (1885).\n\nJohn Franklin Botume was born in Boston, Massachusetts on November 21, 1855 to Elizabeth Augusta (Lord) Botume and John Botume, Jr., a successful businessman with the Baldwin, Botume & Co. packing company. John Franklin was the only son and had two sisters.\nComing from a well-to-do family, Frank (as he frequently went by) attended the Boston Latin School and then entered Harvard College. While Frank's parents had him cut out for a career in law, he started deviating from their plans and began pursuing singing. He studied many years under the Italian voice teacher Vincenzo Cirillo.\n\nAfter graduating from Harvard in 1876, he attended Harvard Law School for a year and he later taught music in Boston and Cambridge as he read law. In 1881 Frank was admitted to the Suffolk County Bar and began dividing his time between practicing law and teaching the music he enjoyed. Finally, four years later, Frank broke for good with the law profession and dedicated all of his time to singing.\n\nFor the rest of his life, Frank was heavily involved in both teaching and performing music in and around Boston and New York City. In 1883 he was listed in the \"Boston Musical Yearbook\" as the director and accompanist of the \"Gounod Quartet\" and a bass singer in the \"Cecilia\" Club. During the summers of 1889 and 1891, he traveled to Paris, London and Munich to study with well-known singing teachers.\n\nFrom 1891 to 1892 Frank was the resident director of the Boston branch of the American Academy of the Dramatic Arts, and from 1892 to 1893 Principal of the opera department of American Academy of Dramatic Arts in New York City. Soon after, he left that position to become the choirmaster at the historic St. James Church Episcopal Church in Roxbury, a post he would hold for 20 years. There, his duties included training and directing the vested choir and soloist quartet. All the time, he continued to teach voice privately.\n\nAbout a year prior to his death, Frank retired from his job as choirmaster, continuing to teach privately. By this time he had lost one eye due to a fishing accident and was in poor health. The accident occurred sometime before 18 June 1891, which was the date of Frank's U.S. Passport application listing that he had \"1 artificial eye\". John Franklin Botume died suddenly of a hemorrhage October 17, 1917 in Boston at age 61. He was never married nor had any children.\n\nIn his \"Modern Singing Methods\", John Franklin Botume was perhaps the first published vocal pedagogue to bridge the substantial gap between the \"old Italian school\" and the \"modern school\" of singing, showing the strengths and weaknesses of each method alone and how they could support each other combined. Botume believed that one great strength of the \"old Italian school\" is its regimen of developing the voice over a long period of training and exercise. He also found this to be a weakness in the \"modern school\" training:\n\nThe teacher of the future will […] follow the old process. He will attempt little the first or the second year, and will go gradually, carefully, regularly and, above all, slowly to the end. […] Nature is a hard task-mistress. What you steal from her today, she will exact with compound interest tomorrow. The end of these \"short-cuts\" is, that every quick result which the pupil gains is attended either with some physical weakness or disease, or else with an accompanying fault; such as a tremolo, a tendency to sing \"off the key,\" a nasal, sharp, foggy, hard or weak tone, a lack of flexibility, a premature decay of the voice, or some other disagreeable thing, which, like Banquo's ghost, is apt to pop up at the very moment you wish to display yourself on some festal occasion.\n\nAnother strength Botume identified of the \"old\" method is its viewpoint on what the singer feels. While modern science can tell us what a good singer's vocal folds are doing while they are singing, it has been at a loss to help inexperienced singers achieve the same technique. In the \"old Italian school\", singers would listen to the proper execution of a vocalization and attempt to emulate it. The teacher would then use their experienced ears to inform the student when they had achieved the desired results and the student would memorize the sensations accompanying the correct technique. Botume recommends that this process be continued in modern voice training, describing five different vocal registers by the region of the body they are felt to vibrate.\n\nBotume did not, however, discount the \"modern school\" completely. Indeed, he praised it for bringing a level of \"intellectualism\" into singing, allowing a method of scientifically based techniques to be taught (\"how to sing\"), whereas in the \"old Italian school\" only the desired results were taught (\"what one should sound like\"). He also praised the \"modern school\" for dispelling the myth that voice teachers possess some mystical power for transforming common voices into magnificent ones:\n\nIt cannot be too strongly insisted that the art of singing is not an occult thing. It is very much like the carpenter's trade: one must have some aptitude for it to begin with; next he must learn how to use the tools of his craft; finally, he must acquire mechanical dexterity by practice.\n\nBotume's \"Modern Singing Methods\" is a ground-breaking work that held influence over several later vocal pedagogical works. In his \"Psychology of Singing\" (MacMillan, 1917), David Taylor said:\n\nProbably the best summary of the old Italian method offered by any modern teacher is contained in a little booklet by J. Frank Botume, entitled Modern Singing Methods. […] This sums up beautifully the external aspects of the old Italian method, and of modern methods as well.\n\nThe work was also cited in \"Resonance in Singing and Speaking\" by Thomas Fille-Brown (Oliver Ditson & Co, 1911), as well as the modern books \"Secrets of Singing\" by Jeffry Allen (Alfred, 1994, 2005) and \"The Singer's Companion\" by Brent Monahan (Limelight Editions, 2007).\n\n\nBotume also published several songs for both solo voice and choir, including \"Morning Love Song\" (1896) and \"The Trill,\" (date unknown), and an arrangement of scenes from the earliest opera still extant, Jacopo Peri's \"Euridice\" (1895).\n\nText for this article has been excerpted by permission of the author from the introduction to J. F. Botume \"Modern Singing Methods\", Bel Canto Masters Study Series (Pitch Perfect Publishing, 2009). .\n\n"}
{"id": "36798559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36798559", "title": "Korea Animation High School", "text": "Korea Animation High School\n\nKorea Animation High School (한국애니메이션고등학교), colloquially known as \"Anigo\" (애니고) in South Korea, is a public characterized vocational secondary school in Hanam, South Korea, hosting the last three grades of secondary education in Korea. It was opened in 2000 with three educational goals: freedom, creativity, and inner beauty.\n\nKorea Animation High School took in their first batch of 101 students on March 8, 2000. Current principal Choi Chang-soo was appointed on March 1, 2011 as the 6th principal of the school. As of February 2, 2015, there are a total of 1273 graduates. March 3, 2015 marked the new student admissions for the 2015 school year, with 103 students.\n\n\nList of principals of Korea Animation High School:\n"}
{"id": "50805782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50805782", "title": "Louis Monrose", "text": "Louis Monrose\n\nAntoine-Martial Louis Barizain also called Louis Monrose or Monrose (1811–1883) was a 19th-century French actor. The actor Claude Louis Séraphin Barizain (1783-1843) was his father. The actress Mademoiselle Monrose was his step sister due to her marriage with his brother, Eugène (Barizain).\n\nHe was appointed a professor at the Conservatory in 1867. He was Lucien Guitry's first drama teacher and also taught the comedian Lucie Manvel.\n\n"}
{"id": "43496104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43496104", "title": "Manmohan Memorial Polytechnic", "text": "Manmohan Memorial Polytechnic\n\nManmohan Memorial Polytechnic (MMP) is a technical college located in Hattimuda-7, Morang, Koshi, Nepal. It is 12 kilometres away from Biratnagar, an industrial town in eastern Nepal. <br>\nThe Polytechnic was established with an assistance of NRs.46 Crores from the Government of India under India-Nepal Economic Cooperation Programme with the name of former Prime Minister of Nepal Late Man Mohan Adhikari and is the first of its kind in the country. The college has status of constituted college of CTEVT (Council for Technical Education and Vocational Trainings, Nepal) but accredited by Government of Nepal as autonomous college. It offers Diploma in Engineering (IE) course in multiple disciplines. It also provides trainings to disadvantaged and unemployed groups of people in specific skills through short term modularized training programs. <br>\nThe polytechnic started running in 2008 while it was formally inaugurated on November 2, 2009, by former Prime Minister of Nepal, Shree Madhav Kumar Nepal.\n\nThis college provide various level of program up to now it is providing Diploma in Mechanical,Electrical,Electronics and Civil.Soon it will also provide bachelor level of program in Civil department.\n"}
{"id": "58059284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58059284", "title": "Mary Lowe Dickinson", "text": "Mary Lowe Dickinson\n\nMary Lowe Dickinson (née Mary Caroline Underwood, 1839–1914) was a 19th and early 20th-century American fiction writer, poet, editor, and educator who also became an advocate for women’s rights and anti-war activist.\n\nAsked later in life about her decision to pursue the writing life, she observed, “Talent uses us…. If I had had a spark of it, I could not have waited for circumstances to force me to use it.”\n\nBorn in Fitchburg, Massachusetts on January 23, 1839, Mary Caroline Underwood (later known as Mary Lowe Dickinson) was a daughter of Ruth (Burgess) Underwood (1805–1869), a native of Warren, Rhode Island, and Timothy Underwood (1803–1863), a native of Swanzey, New Hampshire who had become the owner-operator of a livery and stage coach route based in Fitchburg.\n\nShe was raised in Fitchburg with her siblings: Harriet Alice (1825–1887), who later married Luke Wellington; Ann Elizabeth (1827–1844); Charlotte Hoar (1829–1891); Hannah Fidelia (1831–1882), who later wed Charles James Frye; James Burgess (born 1833), who died in the Utah Territory while in service with the 2nd California Cavalry; Abby Sophia (1835–1914), who later married Joel Willard Sheldon; Edward Monroe (1837–1921); George Henry (1841–1894); William Waldo (1843–1880); and Albert Greenwood (born 1845), who died on November 11, 1845 at the age of 7 months, and was laid to rest at the Laurel Hill Cemetery in Fitchburg.\n\nHer father was described as a laborer on 1850 federal and 1855 Massachusetts census records and as a hostler on the federal census of 1860.\n\nEducated in the common schools of her community she became a teacher in the small school of a neighboring village in 1854 when she was just 15 years old. As she became more adept as an educator, she was appointed as the head assistant of a school in Boston, and then was awarded the job of assistant principal at the Hartford Female Seminary.\n\nOn April 3, 1858, she wed George P. Lowe in Fitchburg, Worcester County. A seaman and fellow Fitchburg native, he was a son of Stephen and Susan Lowe. Widowed by him soon thereafter while he was traveling abroad, she also sustained another loss in 1863 when her father passed away in Fitchburg at the age of 60 on September 30, and was laid to rest at the same cemetery – Laurel Hill – where her youngest brother had been interred 18 years earlier.\n\nAlready greatly respected for her abilities as an educator and administrator by the time she was 24 years old, she was offered the job of vice-principal of the newly-established Vassar College in 1863, which she declined, choosing instead to pursue further training in Europe. Traveling as a tutor with a female student and her family, she wrote regularly for thirteen publications, including the \"New York Tribune\". After her term of service ended due to her student's marriage, she was then hired as a tutor by a family from Chicago, becoming so close that she was treated as a member of that family for many years thereafter.\n\nUpon her return to New York during the fall of 1867, she was awarded the position of acting principal of the Van Norman Institute, one of the city’s elite and most successful boarding schools.\n\nTragically, she was widowed a second time when her husband, John B. Dickinson, died suddenly of a stroke on March 16, 1875 while on a stopover in Chicago en route to San Francisco. According to the \"Fitchburg Sentinel\": \nJohn B. Dickinson, the senior member of the firm of Dickinson & Co., bankers of New York city, died on Tuesday last in Chicago, of apoplexy, while on his way to visit his daughter, Mrs. Sherwood, in San Francisco. Mr. Dickinson was born in New York in 1814, but lived with an uncle in North Carolina until he was sixteen years old. He then returned to New York…. He was a director in the National Shoe and Leather Bank, the Union Mutual Insurance Company, the Broadway Insurance Company and the Brooklyn Dry Dock Company. He was also at one time president of the Tenth National Bank. Mr. Dickinson amassed a large fortune by his industry and business capacity. He was twice married and is survived by his second wife, four sons and four daughters. Mr. Dickinson was known to some of our citizens, having married for his second wife Mrs. Mary C. Lowe, formerly of this city.\n\nFollowing funeral services at St. Paul’s Methodist Episcopal Church, located at the corner of New York City's Twenty-second Street and Fourth Avenue, her husband was laid to rest at the Green-Wood Cemetery in Brooklyn, New York. According to \"The New York Times\", “The ceremony [at the church] was witnessed by a congregation of relatives, friends, and business associates that crowded the building in every part. Exceptionally rich and costly floral offerings decorated the altar and chancel. The services were begun with the singing of the hymn, ‘Nearer My God to Thee.’”\n\nShortly thereafter, she began work as head of a Brooklyn school's department of literature and composition, but then resigned that position in favor of work as a private tutor. During this time, she entered a period of her life throughout which she battled serious financial hardships. Multiple biographers and newspapers have documented that, two years after being widowed, the fortune she had inherited from her late husband was gone. Howard J. Banker described her savings as “suddenly swept away.” The contacts she had built as an educator and advocate for women, however, helped her survive. According to Banker, “She was offered important positions in Wellesley, Northwestern University, Vassar, the University of Denver, and the University of Southern California.\" In 1888, she chose to become “the Chair of Literature in the University of Denver, where she labored for two years with such zeal and earnestness that her health became impaired and she was compelled to retire.” According to \"The Gazette\" of Fort Worth, Texas, she was paid “the same salary as a man in a corresponding position” during her time there.\n\nAccording to biographer William Emerson, Mary Lowe Dickinson “wrote leaders for dailies, editorials for weeklies, serials, short travels, poems, articles on education and philanthropy, and Sunday School lessons, never free enough to work in any favorite line, but always shaping her work to suit the demand of the hour.” In addition, she wrote about the lives and work of: Charles Kingsley, Harriet Martineau, George Sand, and others; edited \"The Open Window\", a magazine produced by convalescing patients and other invalids by the Shut-In Society; served as an associate editor for the philanthropic magazine published by Edward Everett Hale and his Lend a Hand Society; contributed “A Tour Around the World\" to the November 1882 edition of \"Chautauquan\"; and and penned “Women of the Period” for \"Harper’s Bazaar\".\n\n\n\n During the mid-1880s, Mary Lowe Dickinson became active with other prominent women in the planning and launch of a new philanthropic organization, the International Order of the King’s Daughters and Sons. Appointed in 1887 as general secretary – a post which she held for the remainder of her life – she also edited the group’s magazine, \"The Silver Cross\", beginning in 1888, and penned the lyrics for the group’s hymn, \"Lead Now as Forth We Go\", which were set to the music of \"Nearer My God to Thee\". Gradually garnering national attention for the organization and for herself in newspapers nationwide, she was invited to speak at the Dansville Water Cure during the late 1800s. According to historian Susan Cayleff, this health spa became known as “Our Home” to many of those who became involved with it as patrons or patients. In addition to serving “as a training ground for women physicians”, this facility was propelled to “the center of national reform politics” when James Caleb Jackson assumed leadership – due to his interest in abolition, temperance, women’s rights, the cooperative union of labor and capital, and mental therapeutics.” Other prominent women and men who lectured or received care here included: Bronson Alcott, Susan B. Anthony, Clara Barton, Frederick Douglass, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, and Sojourner Truth.\n\nAfter advocating for uniform divorce laws for men and women in the United States in 1892, she was elected president, in 1895, of the National Council of Women of the United States. One of the oldest, nonsectarian women’s organizations in America, NCW was at the forefront, during the late 1890s, of efforts to ensure equal pay for women and reform dress codes. During her tenure as president, she oversaw revisions to the NCW’s constitution and structure, including the division of the organization into an “upper and lower council.” During this era, she also issued an appeal (in 1898) for clothing and supplies to relieve “the suffering women and children of Cuba.”\n\nAdditional service included appointments as secretary of the American Bible Society’s Women’s Branch, national superintendent of the Women’s Christian Temperance Union’s higher education department, and president of the Women’s National Indian Association.\n\nThree years before the turn of the century, she co-signed a letter with Maud D. Ballington-Booth (Salvation Army), Mary Louise Beebe, Elizabeth Bacon Custer (the widow of George Armstrong Custer), Grace Hoadley Dodge (Y.W.C.A. and Travelers Aid Society of New York), Mary Mapes Dodge (renowned children’s author), Hannah B. Einstein (National Federation of Temple Sisterhoods and Federation of Jewish Women’s Organizations), Jeannette Leonard Gilder (editor, \"Scribner’s Monthly\" and drama and music critic, \"The New York Herald\"), Ellen Martin Henrotin (president of the General Federation of Women’s Clubs), Josephine Shaw Lowell (founder, New York Consumer’s League), Alice Freeman Palmer (former president, Wellesley College, and dean of women, University of Chicago), Julia H. Percy, Margaret Elizabeth Sangster (editor, \"Harper’s Bazaar\"), Louisa Lee Schuyler (founder, New York State Charities Aid Association), Mary E. Trautman, and Candace Wheeler (founder, the Society of Decorative art in New York, and co-founder, New York Exchange for Women’s Work) to prevent America’s entry into armed conflict. It ran in newspapers on February 10, 1897, and read as follows:\n\nTo the Women of the United States: We ask your earnest and prompt cooperation in urging upon the senate of the United States that after full consideration it should ratify the arbitration treaty between this country and Great Britain, and without amendments which will cripple its efficiency. The mothers, the wives and the homes of our land have the deepest interest in the substitution of law for war. In times of conflict they are the keenest sufferers, and while the nation’s honor is dear to them, whatever tends to settle disputes by reason and law, rather than by warfare, demands their heartiest indorsement. It is absolutely necessary that the universal public opinion of the country, in favor of this treaty, should find expression. Therefore, we ask you, without delay, to write personally to your senators, to hold meetings, to send petitions and to aid by all means in your power, the completion of this great act of Christian civilization.\n\nThe treaty referred to in this letter was an agreement between Great Britain and Venezuela “to provide for an amicable settlement of the question which has arisen between their respective Governments concerning the boundary between the Colony of British Guiana and the United States of Venezuela.”\n\nDuring the opening decade of the new century, Mary Low Dickinson suffered another series of financial and legal setbacks, this time resulting from her agreement in 1904 to purchase an expensive set of books due to a mistaken belief that she was creating a sound investment opportunity. Refusing to remit payment after realizing her error, she then fell ill in June of 1909 after being harassed and sued by creditors. Newspapers nationwide chronicled the state of her affairs, including \"The Topeka State Journal\", which noted that:\n\nMrs. Mary Low Dickinson, the venerable authoress and founder of the International Order of Kings Daughters, is quite ill at her home here, it was announced today, following a lawsuit in which a judgment of $10,000 was given against her recently in favor of a Boston publishing house. The friends of Mrs. Dickinson, learning of her illness, because of worry over the lawsuit, took up the matter and as a result a rehearing of the case has been granted by the courts and is scheduled to start on Monday, but it is not likely that Mrs. Dickinson will be able to leave her home then. \n\nAccording to \"The Sun\" of New York:\n\nThe plaintiff alleges that Mrs. Dickinson, on November 21, 1904, contracted to purchase from the [Frederick J. Quimby] company a set of the works of Paul de Kock in fifty volumes for $7,500, and that the company was ready to deliver them on December 1 of that year, but that Mrs. Dickinson refused to take them.\n\nIn her answer Mrs. Dickinson admits having signed a contract for the books, but alleges that the firm represented to her that it only wished to sell her the books for the use of her name and that it would resell them for her at a good profit before delivery... The matter was put to her, she says, as an investment, and she signed the contract with that understanding...\n\nThe book concern obtained a judgment against Mrs. Dickinson by default last March while she was out of the city. On her return her attorney, Melvin H. Dalberg … procured the setting aside of the judgment by Justice Guy in Special Term, Part I., and a new trial was ordered.\n\nDuring the June 16, 1909 deposition process for that new trial and the actual trial itself on June 21 it was revealed that Mary Lowe Dickinson had initially agreed to purchase the company’s $2,500 edition of the books, but had been pressured into changing her order to a substantially more expensive one by a representative of the Quimby Company who had convinced her that she could earn a $500 profit if she re-sold it to “a woman in West Virginia who would ultimately rebuy the books from her,” but that the books had not even been ready for delivery to Dickinson and could not have later been resold because the purported buyer from West Virginia had never existed. As a result, New York Supreme Court Justice James Aloysius O’Gorman dismissed the lawsuit against Dickinson.\n\nBy 1910, she was a 71-year-old widow residing at the Manhattan, New York home of her friend, Kate Bond (aged 75), with whom she served in the International Order of the King’s Daughters and Sons, and Bond’s 70-year-old niece – both of whom were described on that year's federal census as being natives of Maryland who had their own income. Dickinson was described as a magazine editor.\n\nMary Low Dickinson died in June 1914. Following funeral services on June 11 at the Methodist Episcopal Church at 60th Street and Madison Avenue, she was laid to rest during a private interment ceremony at Brooklyn’s Green-Wood Cemetery, where her husband had been buried in 1875.\n\n"}
{"id": "20240882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20240882", "title": "Master of Finance", "text": "Master of Finance\n\nA Master's degree in Finance is a postgraduate program preparing graduates for careers in Finance. The degree is often titled Master of Finance or Master in Finance (abbreviated M.Fin., MiF), or Master of Science in Finance (MSF in North America and MSc in Finance in the UK and Europe). In the U.S. and Canada the program may be positioned as a professional degree. Particularly in Australia, the degree may be offered as a Master of Applied Finance (MAppFin). In some cases, the degree is offered as a Master of Management in Finance (MMF).\n\nMSF and M.Fin / MSc programs differ as to intended career preparation and hence degree focus — with the former centered on financial management and investment management, and the latter on more technical roles \n(although, see below for further discussion as to this distinction). Both degree types, though, emphasize quantitative topics, and may also offer some non-quantitative elective coursework, such as corporate governance, business ethics and business strategy. Programs generally require one to two years of study, and are often offered as a non-thesis degree.\n\nThe MSF program, typically, prepares graduates for careers in corporate finance, investment banking and investment management. The core curriculum is thus focused on managerial finance, corporate finance and investment analysis. These topics are generally preceded by more fundamental coursework in economics, (managerial) accounting, and \"quantitative methods\" (usually time value of money and business statistics). In many programs, these fundamental topics are a prerequisite for admission or assumed as known, and if part of the curriculum, students with appropriate background may be exempt from these. The program usually concludes with coursework in advanced topics — where several areas are integrated or applied — such as portfolio management, financial modeling, mergers and acquisitions and real options; managerial economics and various quantitative finance topics may also be offered as advanced courses.\n\nThe M.Fin / MSc prepares graduates for more technical roles, and thus \"focuses on the theory and practice of finance\" with a \"strong emphasis on financial economics in addition to financial engineering and computational methods.\" The MSF core topics are (often) also covered, although in (substantially) less detail. Elective work includes specific topics in quantitative finance and computational finance, but also in corporate finance, private equity and the like; several of the MSF advanced topics — such as real options and managerial economics — will thus also be offered, here differing as to a more technical orientation. As regards coverage of quantitative finance as compared to more specialized degrees, see below.\n\nThe MSF-M.Fin distinction is not absolute: some MSF programs, although general in coverage, are \"quantitatively rigorous\" or offer a \"quantitative track\" (and may be STEM-designated ); while others are specifically technically oriented, or, in some cases, even offer a finance and mathematics dual degree. Also, although the \"MSc in Finance\" generally corresponds to the M.Fin, many schools offer a range of MSc programs where finance may be combined with accountancy and/or management, and these then correspond to the MSF; note also that many MSc programs are further specialized, with the degree as a whole focused on, for example, Behavioral finance, Islamic finance or Wealth management. MMF programs may, similarly, offer either broad- or specialized finance coverage. \n\nThe MAppFin spans the MSF-M.Fin spectrum in terms of available specializations and corresponding coursework; it differs in that it is \"for and by practitioners\" and therefore \"blends... finance theory with industry practice\", as appropriate to the specialization. Similar to the MSc, programs are sometimes specifically focused on Financial Planning or Banking, for example, as opposed to more general coverage of finance. Some universities offer both the MAppFin and the MFin, with the latter requiring additional semester-time and coursework (and exclusively offering doctoral access). These programs may also differ as to entrance requirements.\n\nPrograms require a bachelor's degree for admission, but many do not require that the undergraduate major be in finance, economics, or even general business. The usual requirement is a sufficient level of numeracy, often including exposure to probability / statistics and calculus. The M.Fin and MSc will often require more advanced topics such as multivariate calculus, linear algebra and differential equations; these may also require a greater background in Finance or Economics than the MSF. Some programs may require work experience (sometimes at the managerial level), particularly if the candidate lacks a relevant undergraduate degree.\n\nAlthough there is some overlap with an M.B.A., the finance Master's provides a broader and deeper exposure to finance, but more limited exposure to general management topics. Thus, the program focuses on finance and financial markets, while an M.B.A., by contrast, is more diverse, covering general aspects of business, such as human resource management and operations management. Note that an M.B.A. without a specialization in finance will not have covered many of the topics dealt with in the MSF (breadth), and, often even where there is specialization, those areas that are covered may be in less depth (certainly as regards the M.Fin). M.B.A. candidates will sometimes \"dual major\" with an M.B.A./MSF — certain universities also offer this combination as a joint degree — or later pursue an M.Fin degree to gain specialized finance knowledge; some universities offer an advanced certificate in finance appended to the MBA, allowing students to complete coursework beyond the standard finance specialization. The MSM or M.Com finance (or financial management ) closely correspond to the MSF. Note though, that these degrees typically place more emphasis on theory and (sometimes) less on practice.\n\nAs above, some MSF and all M.Fin programs overlap with degrees in financial engineering, computational finance and mathematical finance: see Master of Quantitative Finance (MQF). Note, however, that the treatment of any common topics — usually financial modeling, derivatives and risk management — will differ as to level of detail and approach. The MSF deals with these topics conceptually, as opposed to technically, and the overlap is therefore slight: although practical, these topics are too technical for a generalist finance degree, and the exposure will be limited to the generalist level. The M.Fin / MSc, on the other hand, cover these topics in a substantially mathematical fashion, and the treatment is often identical. The distinction here though, is that these place relatively more emphasis on financial theory than the MQF, and also allow for electives outside of quantitative finance; at the same time, the range of quantitative electives is often smaller. Entrance requirements to the MQF are significantly more mathematical than for the MSF, while for the M.Fin / MSc the requirements may be identical.\n\nA Master of Financial Economics focuses on theoretical finance, and on developing models and theory. The overlap with the M.Fin / MSc, then, as with the MQF, is often substantial. As regards the MSF, on the other hand, although the two programs do differ in the weight assigned to theory, there is some overlap: firstly, some MSF curricula do include a formal study of Financial Economics; secondly, even where the theory is not studied formally, MSF programs do cover the assumptions underpinning the models studied (at least in overview); thirdly, many financial economics programs include coverage of individual financial instruments, corporate finance and portfolio management, although this treatment is usually less practical. (As regards managerial economics, similar comments apply. The course is taught to strengthen the theoretical underpin of the degree; however, since the emphasis is application, it is not developed.)\n\nThe Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) designation is sometimes compared to a Master's in Finance. \nIn fact, several universities have embedded a significant percentage of the CFA Program \"Candidate Body of Knowledge\" into their degree programs; and the degree title may reflect this: \"Master in Financial Analysis\" or similar. \nIn general though, the CFA program is focused on Portfolio management and Investment analysis, and provides more depth in these areas than the standard Finance Master's, whereas for other areas of finance the CFA coverage is in less depth. \n(Likewise, several programs have curricula aligned with the FRM / PRM, or the CAIA; note that the so-called \"Indian C.F.A.\" is, in fact, a master's degree.) \nA further distinction — as regards all such designations — is that (most) Masters programs include practice on, for example, the Bloomberg Terminal, or in building advanced financial models, while \"hands on\" training of this sort will not (typically) be included in a professional certification program.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49196752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49196752", "title": "Math-GAMES", "text": "Math-GAMES\n\nThe Math-GAMES is an educational project in the framework of the program \"Erasmus+\" by the European Commission, which presents free material for lessons and training of teachers, to teach pupils Mathematics through games, mostly traditional games like chess, checkers or mill.\n\nPartners in the project are participants from Germany, Italy, Spain, Romania, Bulgaria, Turkey, France, Greece and Cyprus.\n\nThe project \"Math-GAMES - Games And Mathematics in Education for Adults – Compendiums, Guidelines and Courses for Numeracy Learning Methods Based on Games\" is producing a compendium and a guidebook in 9 languages, which should give the answer to two main questions while rising numeracy in education:\n\n\nDuring the project, the project partners will collect real examples, in which playing traditional games could bring low-skilled people out of isolation and helps participating in our society. In this part the mobility of trainers is necessary. In parts normal skilled people will play these games together with lower-skilled persons. The results are the \"Math-GAMES Compendium of Famous Traditional Games\", which are books in 9 languages (BG, DE, EN, ES, FR, GR, IT, RO, TR).\n\nAfter that the partners of the project will prove, how traditional games could be implemented in their learning program for a better understanding, especially for lower-skilled people. The result are the “Math-GAMES Numeracy Learning Guidelines” in 9 languages (BG, DE, EN, ES, FR, GR, IT, RO, TR).\n\nAt the third part of the project the project partners will prove by doing and testing during real courses and seminars that playing games between people with different skills assist the social integration and thus traditional games will be saved from a loss by transferring it to other people. The result is a \"Math-GAMES Teacher Training Course and Seminar\", which is held for the next 10 years in different countries. The e-presentation, the seminar and the teacher training course are published in English.\n\nFinally the \"Math-GAMES Testing and Evaluation Report\" is published. It is a report about the project, the work, the activities during the lessons, the competitions in schools, the meetings and the evaluation. The Math-GAMES Project Report is published in English.\nIn total the project gives examples of good practice and hints for creating learning courses for using traditional games with normal and lower-skilled people fighting numeracy.\n\nAt the end of this project “Math-GAMES - Games And Mathematics in Education for Adults – Compendiums, Guidelines and Courses for Numeracy Learning Methods Based on Games\" we have produced 9 compendiums and 9 guidebooks, both are available as printed books and e-books, a website, in which we will present all the material, guidelines for a teacher training course and a detailed report about e.g.:\n\nA big part with a list of different traditional transnational games (photos, game instructions), which can provide social integration. Traditional games can be board games, card games, role plays, acts, folk games involving dramatics, e. g. but not computer games.\nA general, more theoretical short part about the theme: “Social integration and participation of lower-skilled people by using traditional games”. It should show learners in adult education, how precious it can be to add games in teaching lessons and offer so tailored learning opportunities to individual learners.\nSome example of best practice from the participating countries and organizations, how lower-skilled people are socially integrated by using traditional games (photos and description of the activity, place and country, effects on the people)\nSome example of best practice from the participating countries and organizations, how lower-skilled people is getting information on access to lifelong learning services in the local adult education.\nA description of the origin of games and their symbolic significance, e.g. games about “capture and release”, birth, ritual, etc.\nInterviews of participating people in their homes, care residences, etc. so that a compendium of authentic testimonies is created. \n“Games in performance” in front of small audiences of people, who are then given the opportunity to interpret the games and to perform them with the lower-skilled participants on their own, with the participants as audience.\nFilming, photographing and documentation of parts of the project to upload on our website.\n\nFrom 2016 these materials will be developed:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48308276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48308276", "title": "Missouri Research and Education Network", "text": "Missouri Research and Education Network\n\nMissouri Research and Education Network (MOREnet) is a member-driven consortium, operating as a separate business unit within the University of Missouri. They are primarily made up of Missouri's K-12 schools, colleges and universities, public libraries and government organizations. In addition to maintaining a computer network for Internet access to school districts and libraries in the U.S. state of Missouri. they also provide technology consulting, a technology help desk as well as professional development and training, consortium discounts and a la carte services by a team of approximately 85 subject matter experts.\n\nIn 1991, Missouri's four-year public colleges expressed the desire to connect to the NSFnet, a precursor to today's internet. Growth was rapid, but 2002, they connected 509 Missouri public school districts, 64 higher education institutions and 125 tax-supported libraries.\n\n1991: Organization Formed for higher ed primarily to share research electronically\n\n1993:A pilot project with Missouri Department of Elementary and Secondary Education to include 100 K-12 school districts to include internet connection (which at the time was still an interesting, but unproved concept) as well as hands-on training and technical consultation\n\n1995: The Missouri Secretary of State secured $500,000 for shared online resources available to the entire MOREnet consortium\n\n1997: The MOREnet backbone increased to 45 Mbit/s, which was 30 times faster than the 1993 service\n\n1999: The MOREnet backbone increased to 155 Mbit/s, enabling full-scale interactive video services\n\n2003: The MOREnet backbone increased to 622 Mbit/s\n\n2009: The MOREnet backbone was migrated to a fiber-optic infrastructure to support 10 Gbit/s (10,000 Mbit/s) capacity\n\n2013: Awarded nearly $1 million in grant funding to 3 members for projects designed over a 3-year period to improve outcomes through the adoption of new technologies and STEM based activities, visual learning, business continuity and disaster recovery.\n\n2013: Began a backbone fiber expansion project to bring much needed infrastructure to the un- and under-served region of southeast Missouri\n\n2014: Upgraded network to support up to 100 Gbit/s, making MOREnet one of the first research and education networks in the country to support that speed\n\nIn 2016, MOREnet was recognized for exemplary workplace practices from When Work Works, a national initiative, led by the partnership for the Families and Work Institute and the Society for Human Resource Management. \n\nMOREnet practices a modified version of ROWE (Results-Only Work Envioronment). A management strategy used at MOREnet, where employees are evaluated on performance, not presence. In a ROWE, leadership focuses only on results – increasing the organization’s performance while cultivating the right environment for people to manage all the demands in their lives...including work.\n\n"}
{"id": "9755955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9755955", "title": "Mūza Rubackytė", "text": "Mūza Rubackytė\n\nMūza Rubackytė (born May 19, 1959) is a Lithuanian pianist, currently residing in Vilnius and Paris. Rubackytė has been awarded the Order of the Lithuanian Grand Duke Gediminas, Lithuanian Muzes, and has been named as the National Artist of Lithuania.\n\nShe holds various teaching positions at a number of educational institutions, including the Lithuanian Academy of Music and Theater in Vilnius, Conservatoire Rachmaninoff in Paris, Tchaikovsky Conservatory in Moscow, Messiaen Academy of Music in the Netherlands. She has also been a judge at the Lithuanian International Piano Competition and International F. Liszt Piano Competition (Utrecht).\n\nA native of Lithuania, Mūza Rubackytė was born into a family of musicians. At the age of 7, she made her professional debut in the capital city of Vilnius performing Haydn's \"D Major Piano Concerto\" with the Lithuanian National Chamber Orchestra. Six years later, she won the first prize in the National Young Artists Competition. The victory opened the doors to the Moscow Tchaikovsky Conservatory, where she studied under Yakov Flier, Mikhail Voskressensky and Bela Davidovitch. During her conservatoire period, she won the first prize in the Tallinn (Estonia) Piano Competition and shortly thereafter was awarded the Conservatory's first prize in solo piano, chamber music and accompaniment.\n\nDuring the Soviet period, Mūza Rubackytė was not allowed to travel outside the Communist Bloc but performed with orchestras of the Baltic states, Ukraine, Armenia, Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan and Belarus, as well as the great ensembles of Moscow, Vilnius and St. Petersburg. She has lived in Paris since 1991.\n\n"}
{"id": "13048939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13048939", "title": "Norwegian university college reform", "text": "Norwegian university college reform\n\nThe University college reform was a reform throughout Norway where 98 smaller colleges were transformed into 26 larger university colleges from 1 August 1994. In addition a number of fine art educations were merged to two National Academies of the Arts, in Oslo and in Bergen.\n\nThe reform gave each county their own university college, except for the two Agder counties, who shared one. Some counties have more than one, with Møre og Romsdal and Nordland topping with three each. The university colleges were given the main responsibility for training nurses, teachers, preschool teachers, engineers and business administrators. In addition a number of other tasks were included in the colleges portfolio.\n\nThe goal of the reform, that was initiated by the then Minister of Education, Gudmund Hernes from the Labour Party, was to effectivate the operations at the colleges through economy of scale. Herned had led the public committee that in 1988 had launched the idea of merging and co locating the colleges. The idea was to use teaching resources dedicated to academic administration instead to be used for teaching and research.\n\nAn evaluation of the reform after five years concluded that reform had not succeeded and that the resulting more efficient operations came from lower state subsidies instead of more efficient operations. It also showed that the reform gave the educational personnel more administrative work.\n\nTwo years later the Norwegian University of Science and Technology was created in Trondheim after a merger of the Norwegian Institute of Technology and the University of Trondheim, reducing the number of public colleges and universities in Trondheim from thirteen to two. \n\nFrom 2005 university colleges were allowed to convert into universities if they met certain requirements. So far both Stavanger University College and Agder University College have converted (to the University of Stavanger and the University of Agder, respectively). Also Bodø, Buskerud, Telemark, Vestfold, Hedmark, Lillehammer and Gjøvik have announced that they wish to convert to universities, either by themselves or through mergers. Tromsø University College ceased to exist in 2009 as it was incorporated into the University of Tromsø.\n"}
{"id": "5809465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5809465", "title": "Playcentre", "text": "Playcentre\n\nPlaycentre is an early childhood education and parenting organisation which operates parent-led early childhood education centres throughout New Zealand and offers parents the opportunity to gain a Diploma in \"Early Childhood and Adult Education\".\n\nWhen the first playcentre was opened in 1941 the prevailing philosophy in New Zealand child education was that education did not really start until children entered the formal, disciplinarian, school system. Playcentres instead recognised the value of early child education and specifically the educational value of child-initiated play.\n\nPlaycentre is indigenous to New Zealand, but is now also established in Japan.\n\nTheir mission is stated as \"Whānau Tupu Ngātahi - Families growing together.\"\n\nThe movement started during the Second World War to provide a break for mothers as well as means to allow for the social development of the child within a cooperative environment. The first such playcentre was established in 1941 in the Wellington suburb of Karori. From the start each playcentre was a community driven initiative, organised by parents, utilising existing premises (e.g. church or community halls) and using parents as teachers. This allowed the easy spread of the movement, now encompassing over 450 centres around New Zealand and explains why they are the dominant provider of early childhood education in rural areas.\n\nGwen Somerset, Joan Wood, Inge Smithells and Beatrice Beeby were among the founders of the organisation. \n\nThe Playcentre model has been copied by groups in other countries, including the Japan Playcentre Association.\n\nPlaycentre was instrumental in introducing the concept of education through play and through child-initiated activities to the early childhood setting in New Zealand. This philosophy has since been adopted throughout all New Zealand early childhood education centres through the New Zealand national curriculum for early childhood education, Te Whāriki. They remain a champion of child-led non-structured play as the best form of education in early childhood.\n\nThe organisation believes that parents are the first and best educators of their children and children learn best when they initiate their learning through play (child-initiated play). Within the centres children and adults learn alongside each other, in agreement with the socio-cultural model of learning which posits that a child learns best when surrounded by trusted members of his or her community.\n\nEach playcentre is a cooperative. Parents decide how their centre will run and are responsible for the education of their children. Parents also make decisions giving direction to how their association (regional body) and the New Zealand Playcentre Federation (national body) will run.\n\nChildren attend half day sessions, no more than 5 times a week. Children from 0 to 6 years, normally in mixed age groups, attend sessions run by parents - a minimum of 1 adult to four children. Parents manage all aspects of each playcentre, including the premises, administration, education of the children and education of themselves.\n\nEvery centre is part of a regional association. There are currently 33 regional associations, which provide support and training and are governed by their member Playcentres. In turn each association is supported by the national body, The New Zealand Playcentre Federation. The Federation is governed by the associations and provides support to meet the goals of the associations.\n\nPlaycentres are chartered early childhood education providers with the New Zealand Ministry of Education. Independent research and audits by the Education Review Office confirm the quality of Playcentre's programmes.\n\nPlaycentre Education administers the NZQA approved Playcentre Diploma in Early Childhood and Adult Education. The course assists parents in developing their parenting skills and their ability to facilitate early childhood education in a playcentre setting. The programme also helps members to learn how to work in a cooperative as well as being the training ground for Playcentre adult educators. The adult education programme is delivered at no cost to the learner.\n\nFamous Playcentre alumni include New Zealand's first female Prime Minister, the Rt. Hon. Jenny Shipley, New Zealand's first female Governor General, Dame Catherine Tizard, the Olympic gold medallists, Caroline Evers-Swindell and Georgina Evers-Swindell, Colin Simon (designer of the Christchurch Commonwealth Games 1974 games - Christchurch, New Zealand symbol and the Playcentre Logo), and Valerie Burns (Companion of the Queen's Service Order ).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42065932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42065932", "title": "Post-secondary qualifications in Mauritius", "text": "Post-secondary qualifications in Mauritius\n\nPost-secondary qualifications are qualifications typically studied for after successful completion of secondary school. In Mauritius, this is usually after successful completion of the Higher School Certificate or its equivalent, although select qualifications may permit early school leaving or require additional study. A variety of different post-secondary qualifications are offered in Mauritius.\n\nThe degree is the primary post-secondary academic qualification obtained, typically at a higher education institution. Academic degrees offered include the Bachelor's, Master's, and PhD. Entry requirements for the Bachelor's degree typically includes a Higher School Certificate with GCE A Levels in appropriate subjects. Entry requirements for higher degrees typically include lower degrees.\n\nQualifications may also be awarded in select programmes upon completion of a programme of study that covers part of a degree programme. A Diploma may be awarded after two years of undergraduate study; students may then progress onto a Top-up course, or be given advanced standing, to complete an undergraduate degree. A Postgraduate Certificate may be awarded after the first stage, and a Postgraduate Diploma may be awarded at the second stage, of postgraduate study; students may then be given advanced standing to complete a postgraduate degree. \n\nUniversity of Mauritius and University of Technology are the two main degree-granting institutions in Mauritius. Degrees may also be obtained from foreign institutions, either through study abroad, study at a local centre affiliated to a foreign institution, or distance learning; a number of education and training providers offer foreign academic qualifications to students in Mauritius.\n\nA License is a three-year undergraduate degree, roughly equivalent to a Bachelor's degree. Types of License offered may include the License Professionelle (Professional Degree) and the License Technologie (Technical Degree). Select institutions of higher education, including the Université des Mascareignes, offer the License qualification.\n\nThe Certificate in General Nursing is a post-graduate qualification that enables nursing practice. The course typically takes one year to complete. The pre-requisite for entry into the course is a Higher School Certificate or its equivalent.\n\nThe Diploma in General Nursing & Midwifery is a post-graduate qualification that enables nursing practice. The course typically takes two years to complete. The pre-requisite for entry into the course is a Higher School Certificate or its equivalent.\n\nThe Top-Up Diploma in General Nursing allows holders of the Certificate in General Nursing qualification to progress to the Diploma qualification with recognition of prior learning at the Certificate level. The course typically takes one year to complete.\n\nThe Teacher's Certificate is a post-secondary qualification that enables teaching in primary schools. The course typically takes two years to complete. The pre-requisite for entry into the course is a Higher School Certificate or its equivalent.\n\nThe Postgraduate Certificate in Education (PGCE)is a post-graduate qualification that enables teaching in primary or secondary schools. The course typically takes one year to complete. The pre-requisite for entry into the course is a Bachelor's degree. Upon completion of the course, further academic progression may be available to a Postgraduate Diploma or a Master's degree in Education.\n\nVocational qualifications are designed to provide career and technical education in specific fields. They may be studied independently or may be earned as part of an Apprenticeship Scheme (AS).\n\nThe Brevet de Technicien (BT), also called the Brevet Technician, is a vocational post-secondary qualification, typically offered in a technical subject. Entry requirements for the Brevet de Technicien are typically a Senior Certificate or its equivalent. The course typically takes two years to complete. Subjects for which the Brevet de Technicien may be offered include Batiment (Building Construction), Electronique (Electronics), Electrotechnique (Electrotechnics), Frabication Mechanique (Maintenance and Production Mechanics), and Mecanique Automobile (Automobile Mechanics). The Brevet de Technicien is the Diploma qualification offered by the Lycée Polytechnique in Mauritius.\n\nThe National Certificate (NC) is a vocational post-secondary qualification, providing training and education in a particular trade. National Certificate courses are offered at several levels mapped to the National Qualifications Framework (NQF). Entry requirements may vary based on the course. Entry requirements for a National Certificate at Level 3 (NC 3) are generally a Form III Certificate or completion of Form IV in secondary school, the National Trade Certificate Foundation, or the equivalent. Entry requirements for a National Certificate at Level 4 (NC 4) or Level 5 (NC 5) are generally a School Certificate (SC), a GCE O Level, a National Certificate at Level 3 in related trades, or the equivalent. The course generally lasts for one to two years, depending on the level and field of study. Students may then progress onto a National Diploma, Diploma, or Higher National Diploma course.\n\nThe National Diploma (ND) is a vocational post-secondary qualification, providing training and education in a particular trade. National Certificate courses are offered at several levels mapped to the National Qualifications Framework (NQF). Entry requirements may vary based on the course. Entry requirements may include a School Certificate (SC) or GCE O Levels, a Higher School Certificate (HSC) or GCE A Levels, a National Trade Certificate at a specified level, a National Certificate at a specified level, or the equivalent. Work experience may also be considered or required.\n\nThe Diploma is a post-secondary qualification. Entry requirements for the Diploma typically include a Higher School Certificate (HSC), two GCE A Levels, a National Certificate at Level 4 (NC 4) or Level 5 (NC 5) in related trades, or the equivalent. The course typically takes two years to complete. Successful completion of the Diploma allows for progression onto the Higher National Diploma.\n\nThe Higher National Diploma (HND) is a post-secondary qualification. Entry requirements for the Higher National Diploma typically include a Higher School Certificate (HSC), two GCE A Levels, a National Certificate at Level 4 (NC 4) or Level 5 (NC 5) in related trades, a Diploma in a related subject, or the equivalent. The course typically takes two to three years to complete.\n\nHigher National Diploma courses offered in Mauritius educational institutions are typically awarded by Edexcel BTEC with accreditation in the United Kingdom. A BTEC Higher National Diploma is roughly equivalent to two years of undergraduate degree-level study at a university. Upon successful completion, students may gain admission to Bachelor's degree programmes, typically with two years of advanced standing. This enables those who entered the vocational stream to re-enter the academic stream and progress further in higher education.\n"}
{"id": "54450713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54450713", "title": "Protests against Rodrigo Duterte", "text": "Protests against Rodrigo Duterte\n\nThe protests against Rodrigo Duterte, the 16th President of the Philippines, began on November 18, 2016 following the burial of late president Ferdinand Marcos, whom Duterte supported. These series of protests are conducted by several left and right-wing groups and other opponent figures mainly due to ongoing war on drugs in the country and other administration issues.\n\nSince his inauguration on June 30, Duterte implemented the war against illegal drugs in the country, promising to kill thousands of people involved in the drug trade. This campaign has been the subject of heavy criticism by local politicians and international human rights, as well as the Western media, due to human rights violations and high number of killings amid drug campaign.\n\nThe youngest known person killed in the drug operation is the 17-year-old student, Kian Loyd delos Santos, from Caloocan, on August 16, 2017. The killing sparked the controversy among the local politicians and militant groups, and triggered massive protest in the country. The family of Delos Santos, on August 25, filed murder and torture charges against police officers involved in the drug operation.\n\nAs of mid-2018, the death toll of war against drugs reached 4,251 dead, according to the police.\n\nDuring his 2016 presidential campaign, Duterte supported the burial of late President and dictator Ferdinand Marcos at the Heroes' Cemetery in Taguig. On November 8, 2016, the Supreme Court permitted Marcos' burial in a 9–5–1 vote. Marcos was buried at the Heroes' Cemetery on November 18. Following his burial, protests — organized by, mostly, youths from various universities, militant groups and local politicians — sparked in the whole country.\n\nA series of protest and strike action staged by jeepney drivers in the Philippines to oppose the government's plan to phaseout jeepneys over 15 years old. The strike, which started on February 6 and 27, caused hundreds of passengers to be stranded. As a result of protests, classes in the country were suspended, as well as the government work. Transport groups resumed the protests on September 24 and October 14 to 16. On October 18, 2017, Duterte said that on January 1, next year, \"If you can't modernize that, leave. You're poor? Son of a bitch, go ahead, suffer in poverty and hunger, I don't care.\" However, Land Transportation Franchising and Regulatory Board (LTFRB) chairman Martin Delgra said the next day that Duterte's call was only his \"expression of urgency\". Its proposal of jeepney modernization will displace 270,000 jeepneys nationwide and around 650,000 drivers and it costs up to P1.6 million.\n\nIn January 2018, an operation called \"Tanggal Usok, Tanggal Bulok\" was implemented by Inter-Agency Council for Traffic (I-ACT) for the dilapidated and smoke belching jeepneys. However, its commuters gave a difficult time in riding jeepneys, particularly the students. Commuters expressed their frustration on social media for apprehending the jeepneys that causes the commuters to be stranded.\n\nThe \"Walk for Life\" was a mass demonstration organized by the Catholic Bishops' Conference of the Philippines (CBCP) protesting the reintroduction of the death penalty and call for an end to killings amid the country's ongoing \"war on drugs\". On February 18, 2017, the march gathered approximately 20,000 Filipino Catholics in Manila. The church had led the revolutions that successfully toppled former Presidents Ferdinand Marcos in 1986 and Joseph Estrada in 2001. Among those who joined the rally was Senator Leila de Lima, a critic of Duterte who opposes the war on drugs. On January 30, 2017, the CBCP issued a statement opposing the revival of the death penalty. CBCP President Socrates Villegas called on the Filipino people to join a rally, which the CBCP had called a \"Walk for Life\", opposing the killings amid the country's war on drugs.\n\nOn February 24, 2018, thousands of people joined at the Quirino Grandstand.\n\nOn March 8 to April 4, 2017, an urban poor group Kadamay (\"Kalipunan ng Damayang Mahihirap\") led an occupation in the 5,000 idle housing in Pandi, Bulacan, and eventually slamming Duterte for not giving the house to the poor.\n\nA five-month-long armed conflict in Marawi, Lanao del Sur, that started on 23 May 2017, between Philippine government security forces and militants affiliated with the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), including the Maute and Abu Sayyaf Salafi jihadist groups. The battle also became the longest urban battle in the modern history of the Philippines. Following the clash, Duterte declared martial law in the whole Mindanao.\n\nSeveral groups led the protest on the day of President Duterte's second State of the Nation Address (SONA). According to Renato Reyes, secretary general of Bayan, the president's promises of improvements during his first SONA still remained unfulfilled, including issues on contractualization, land reforms, and economic policy. Reyes also said that, \"Under his administration, regularization has already happened: It is now regular to kill drug suspects, regular to sabotage peace talks, regular to militarize, and regular to spread fake news and disinformation.\" Also, labor unions Kilusang Mayo Uno and Alyansa ng mga Manggagawa Laban sa Kontraktwalisasyon led similar protests, calling \"to resume peace talks and to end martial law in Mindanao.\" About 5,000 members of Bagong Alyansang Makabayan from Roxas City, 3,000 in Iloilo City, 2,500 in Kalibo, 500-800 in Cebu City, and 500 in Estancia, Iloilo joined the protest, concerning an end to contractualization, land reform, free education and jeepney modernization. Also, about 300 Lumad people joined the protest, calling to stop the martial law. At midnight, around 100 anti-Duterte protesters held a candle vigil, led by Senator Risa Hontiveros, condemning the extrajudicial killings and extension of martial law in Mindanao. Hontiveros called Duterte's second SONA a \"fake\".\n\nAt night, Duterte confronted the protesters for the first time.\n\nAhead of Duterte's third State of the Nation Address, opposition lawmakers announced that they will wear protest Barongs with artwork. Opposition figures—such as Senators Antonio Trillanes IV, Risa Hontiveros, and Bam Aquino—attend the mass at the University of the Philippines Diliman. There, Bishop Broderick Pabillo said on the sermon that the proposed federalism and the charter change are not the solution of wiping out the problem in the country.\n\nOn the day of SONA, over 6,000 police officers will deploy in different areas in Metro Manila to secure the SONA. Dubbed the protest as \"United People's SONA,\" different groups coalitions and organizations held a protests on the day of Duterte's third State of the Nation Address nationwide.\nBayan Muna Southern Tagalog featured Duterte's effigy and then burned it. Demonstrators gathered at University of the Philippines Diliman, slamming the series of killings in the country and the increase of basic goods due to Tax Reform for Acceleration and Inclusion Act (TRAIN law) while some considering to \"Oust Duterte.\" Gabriela, in Commonwealth Avenue in front of Tandang Sora flyover, also slammed Duterte by bearing the messages in the tarpaulin, \"Manyakis,\" \"Dutertambay,\", \"Bomba King,\" and \"Endoterte.\" In Bicol, militant groups also held a rally. Meanwhile, Pro-Duterte groups also gathered in Batasan Road.\n\nOn September 21, 2017, nationwide protests — also known as \"National Day of Protest\" — are conducted by various groups against the government's implementation of war on drugs and the ongoing martial law in the whole of Mindanao under the Duterte administration, as part of the commemoration of the 45th anniversary of the declaration of martial law in 1972 by late President Marcos. As the day of protest approaching, Malacañang Palace released Duterte's Proclamation No. 319 and Memorandum Circular no. 26 on this day. A Memorandum Circular no. 26 states that government offices and public schools at all levels are suspended. Duterte said that he will not condone any means of violence committed by protesters. Duterte even dared the communist New People's Army \"to bring the protests to Manila, as he vowed not to arrest them.\"\nLeft-wing activists and opposition of Duterte accused him of abuses and authoritarianism similar to that of Marcos. Vice President Leni Robredo states that \"If we do not remember the past, we are condemned to repeat it. Sadly those who are deceived do not even know that they are walking a doomed path.\" In Plaza Miranda, about 500 pro-Duterte rallyists occupied in front of the Quiapo Church. Teddy Casiño said to Duterte that \"he is the subject of the protest\", after the latter declares September 21 a day of protest. Pro and anti-Duterte rallyists also engaged in chant battle. A group of pro-Duterte supporters are seen elsewhere in the city, calling to stop the \"destabilization,\" which is rumored to be made by the opposition.\n\nOn September 21, 2018, nationwide protests are conducted, marking the 46th anniversary of Martial Law. These protests are mainly conducted by several groups such as Youth Act Now Against Tyranny and Bagong Alyansang Makabayan. They also featured the menacing artworks of Duterte, along with former President and now House Speaker Gloria Macapagal Arroyo and Ferdinand and Bongbong Marcos. Also, removed Chief Justice Maria Lourdes Sereno also present at the event. Liberal Party members held the event by mass. Meanwhile, pro-Duterte supporters also held the demonstration. Other groups featured the pile of buckets with the pictures of Duterte, the Marcoses, newly-appointed Chief Justice Teresita de Castro and other Duterte's cabinet — parodying the milk brand Alaska, which was then being toppled by the slippers. Some protesters questioned the inclusion of former President Benigno Aquino III's face in the bucket, whom the organizers said that because of unsolved problems in the country. They later removed Aquino's face in the bucket as a respect.\n\nOn November 5, 2017, the Catholic Church held a prayer rally and healing mass along the EDSA highway, the site of the People Power Revolution, to oppose the extrajudicial killings. The procession was attended by around 3,500 people. CBCP president and Lingayen-Dagupan Archbishop Socrates Villegas said:\n\nAdministration opponent groups such as Movement Against Tyranny and Tindig Pilipinas were present at the event. They clarified that the event was to only express frustration, not the \"destabilization.\" Opposition politicians such as Senators Bam Aquino, Franklin Drilon, Risa Hontiveros and Antonio Trillanes were also present.\n\nProtests erupted from November 9—14, 2017, thousands staged the protest against the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) Summit hosted by the Philippines. Their call was to ban the visit of U.S. President Donald Trump, who visited the country to attend ASEAN-related summits as a dialogue partner. It is because, according to student leader Elijah San Pedro, Trump seemingly \"to have dragged the Philippines into his war rhetorics against North Korea.\" Atty. Aaron Pedrosa of SANLAKAS also said that Mamasapano massacre and the war in Marawi were created by the U.S.-led War on Terror. Karapatan Alliance for the Advancement of People's Rights slammed the Trump administration for \"'funding' the administration's war on drugs.\" The Philippine Coast Guard reported that protesters attempted to bribe fishermen to get them close to the United States Embassy. A group of protesters led by Anakbayan managed to reached the gate of Philippine International Convention Center, despite tight security.\n\nMilitant group Kalipunan ng Damayang Mahihirap (Kadamay) also staged protests against Trump. A group said that the ($292 million) budget of the ASEAN Summit could have been used for the poor. Aside from Trump, protesters also burned the images of Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzō Abe, Russian President Vladimir Putin, and Chinese Premier Li Keqiang, whom \"protesters said are responsible for the anti-Filipino and imperialistic agenda allegedly promoted by the Duterte administration.\"\n\nAnti-riot police used water cannon and sonic alarm to repel activists. Bagong Alyansang Makabayan, led by Renato Reyes, have the Trump's effigy — with four rotating hands shaped into the swastika symbol and President Rodrigo Duterte can be seen behind — burned. Despite being fired by the water cannon, the protesters continue to push forward against the blocking police. It is reported that 20 members of militant groups were injured after engaged the clash with the police. Trump arrived in the country on November 12.\n\nOn October 2017, Duterte said that he would declare a revolutionary government against the supposed conspirator of destabilizing the government made by the communist rebels, Liberals and other factions. He said to the media that \"\"'Pag ang\" (if the) \"destablization ninyo patagilid na at medyo magulo na\" (would be shaky and more trouble), I will not hesitate to declare a revolutionary government until the end of my term.\" The next month, he clarified that he would only declare a revolutionary government if \"things go out of control.\" Should the revolutionary government declared, \"he would order the security forces to arrest all destabilizers and go on a full-scale war against communist rebels.\" Duterte draws criticism from the opposition, stating that the declaration is a beginning of the stage towards his dictatorship.\n\nOn November 30, as part of the celebration of Bonifacio Day, a protest was held, condemning the revolutionary government threat. On the other side, around thousands of Duterte supporters gathered at Mendiola, urging Duterte to declare a revolutionary government. Presidential spokesperson Harry Roque advised the pro-revolutionary government supporters \"to conduct their rallies in a peaceful, orderly manner.\" Harry Roque also said that \"The president has earlier said that he does not want a revolutionary government. This, however, does not mean he would prevent citizens from expressing their support for a revolutionary government.\"\n\nNational Union of Journalists of the Philippines staged a protest, dubbed as \"Black Friday Protest for Freedom\", in Quezon City and other parts of the country such as Bacolod and Zamboanga City on the evening of January 19, 2018, following the revocation of online news site Rappler by Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) eight days prior. At the same time, National Bureau of Investigation has issued a subpoena against CEO Maria Ressa, former reporter Reynaldo Santos, and businessman Benjamin Bitanga for violating the anti-cybercrime act. The protest was attended by 300 people, wearing black T-shirts, against the attacks on press freedom by the government. Rappler is known to be critical of the Duterte administration. Presidential Spokesperson Harry Roque said that Duterte has no involvement in the SEC's decision. Roque said that the Friday protest \"is a testament that freedom is alive and democracy is alive in the Philippines.\" Nevertheless, the revocation was widely condemned by the opposition figures such as Kadamay chairperson Gloria Arellano, Senators Leila de Lima and Antonio Trillanes — who said that the decision is similar to Duterte's strategy against De Lima's imprisonment for drug charges, National Union of Journalists of the Philippines, Anakbayan, UP Diliman, and the anonymous critic from \"The New York Times\". Other bloggers and journalists were also present at the protest.\n\nDuterte signed the Tax Reform for Acceleration and Inclusion Act, also known as TRAIN law, on December 19, 2017 that lowers personal income taxes while increases the price of fuel, cars, coal and sugar-sweetened drinks. Since then, it was met by the protests among the groups, who said that the TRAIN law made the people (especially poor) burden. The main phase of protests against TRAIN Law occurred on May and June 2018, with some of the group calling to junk the TRAIN Law by launching the signature campaign.\n\nThe February 23 walkout by thousands of students from different universities nationwide, along with other several opponent sectors, occurred when they protest against the jeepney phaseout and ongoing martial law in the Mindanao. The hashtag #WalkOutPH reached more than 3,000 tweets and at least 2.6 million impressions on Twitter.\n\nDemonstrators commemorate the 32nd anniversary of People Power Revolution (also dubbed as \"People Werpa\") on February 25, 2018, which was successfully ended the dictatorship of Marcos on the same day of 1986. According to Presidential Spokesperson Harry Roque, Duterte will not attend the event but instead \"the President will be in his home province in Davao City\". Last year, Duterte also did attend the event. As the day approaches, several groups including students, activists, and other opponents held the protests against Duterte administration actions. An online poll conducted by Communications Assistant Secretary Mocha Uson, stating \"Naniniwala ba kayo na ang 1986 EDSA PEOPLE POWER ay isang produkto ng FAKE NEWS???\" (\"Do you think the 1986 EDSA People Power is a product of fake news?\"), which garnered 84% voted \"yes\" out of 61,800 respondents. However, Harry Roque said that the event is not 'fake news'.\n\nThe contractualization defines \"a practice where a company hires contractual workers only when is necessary\" while \"endo\" (end of contract) \"refers to the scheme that corrupt companies exercise to abuse their workers.\" The above-mentioned was heavily opposed by the labor groups as they urged Duterte to sign executive order (EO) that will regulate contractualization. According to Presidential Spokesperson Harry Roque, the EO will be possibly signed on May 1, Labor Day. However, on April 19, Labor Secretary Silvestre Bello III confirmed that there will be no longer an executive order, and, instead, the Congress will be the one to pass it.\n\nOn May 1, 2018, about 20,000 protesters clad in red shirts gathered at Mendiola for the much awaited of \"endo\" termination, featuring Duterte's effigies. Duterte signed the executive order about ending of end-of-contract scheme or \"endo\". However, what Duterte signed about is for the employers not the workers — not the EO they had drafted, much to the dismay of the labor groups. Before that, Duterte promised on February to signed the EO but it was postponed to March 15 and then on April 16. The signed EO garnered mixed reception from various groups. Therefore, labor groups vowed to held a larger protest until the contractualization is ended.\n\nDemonstrations staged by the supporters of Supreme Court Chief Justice Maria Lourdes Sereno occurred, following her impeachment process filed against her and her subsequent indefinite leave. The main reasons for the impeachment proceedings, according to the complainant, lawyer Larry Gadon, was that Sereno allegedly failed to declare her Statement of Assets, Liabilities and Net worth (SALN) and was also responsible for tax misdeclarations and unauthorized expenses.\n\nOn April 10, a video showing Gadon approaches in front of the Sereno supporters and the blocking police officers several meters away, raises his middle finger and shouts \"Mga bobo\" (), prompting the supporters to filed the complaint against Gadon nine days later.\n\nAfter Solicitor General Jose Calida filed a \"quo warranto\" petition against her, the Supreme Court voted for the removal of Sereno from the high court on May 11, 2018 with the votes of 8-6. At the same time, supporters of Sereno gathered at the streets near the Supreme Court. Politicians expressed condemnation of ousting Sereno. In the aftermath of ousting Sereno, a prayer rally and protests was conducted in Bacolod, Katipunan Ave, Quezon City, and even displaying a makeshift coffin that, according to the protesters, symbolizes and mourns the \"death of democracy\" and the \"death of judiciary.\" Among those who joined the rally were former CHR Chairperson Etta Rosales and Archdiocese of Manila Broderick Pabillo. On May 12, church groups members announced that they will held the 10-day vigil in front of the Supreme Court.\n\nOn December 4, 2017, Marcelito Paez was killed by unidentified assailant while driving his Toyota Innova in Jaen-Zaragoza Road in Jaen, Nueva Ecija. Human rights Karapatan condemned the killing of Paez. Before his death, Paez helped for the release of the political prisoner Rommel Tucay, who was detained in Cagayan jail.\n\nOn April 29, 2018, a 37-year-old priest Mark Ventura was shot dead by riding-in-tandem assailants after taking a Sunday mass in Gattaran, Cagayan. Authorities said that Ventura blessed the children and talked to the choir members when the assailants shot him. The CBCP, Senator Francis Pangilinan and Anakbayan condemned the murder of Ventura, with Anakbayan called it \"fascistic, tyrannical, and mafia-style rule\" by the Duterte administration. On May 1, Manila Archbishop Luis Antonio Tagle denounced the killing, saying in Tagalog, \"Isn't he a gift from God? Is it that easy now to kill and throw a person away?\" On May 3, the Ventura's family and the Cagayan Valley police issued a P300,00 reward for the information of the suspect of the murder.\n\nOn June 10, a priest, Richmond Nilo of the Diocese of Cabanatuan, was gunned down by unknown assailant as he was preparing for evening mass at a small chapel in Zaragoza, Nueva Ecija on June 10, 2018 at 6:05 pm. Following the murder, the Philippine National Police said that they tagged at least five suspects in connection with the killing of Nilo. One of the suspects linked to the murder, Adell Roll Milan—an altar boy at the church, was arrested by the police on June 14. PNP chief Oscar Albayalde identified him a resident of Barangy Malapit, San Isidro, Nueva Ecija. The police retrieved surveillance cameras; one showing the two men riding in the motorcycle in a road near the chapel moments before the crime, and another one showing a third suspect who served as lookout while two others were seen in a getaway vehicle. Another CCTV footage, timestamped 5:09 pm, shows Milan is seen riding his motorcycle outside T. Ador Dionisio National High School, roughly from the church. However, Elena Matias, grandmother of Milan, during the interview with Rappler, said that the police (wearing only civilian clothes) wrongly arrested him as they did not introduce themselves, and did not present any warrant of arrest. The distance between Milan's house and the small chapel is just at least 25 kilometers away. Matias also said that neither she nor her grandson had knowledge of the killing.\n\nLarry Gadon, Milan's lawyer, believes that he is a fall guy. Milan's childhood friend, Nelson John Oreo, claimed that he was with Milan 4:00 to 8:30 p.m. on the day when the priest was killed.\n\nSeveral members from religious sectors, such as CBCP, and opposition politicians, have directly pointed the finger at Duterte, who is known for his attacks against the church—whom are critical of the administration.\n\nAnother alleged perpetrator of Nilo's murder identified as Omar Mallari, who was arrested by the police on July 2. According to the police, they traced Mallari's whereabouts using the plate number of vehicle which was caught in a CCTV footage when Nilo was killed. Aside from Mallari, they also apprehended the suspect Manuel Torres, while two other suspects, Rolando Garcia and Marius Albis Torres, surrendered. However, some of the suspects remain at large.\nThe police said that, in their affidavits, Mallari and Garcia said that they were paid by Torres a P100,000 to kill the priest. On October 5, another suspect named Bernie Limpio, 36, was arrested during the nighttime buy-bust operation in Maddela, Quirino. During the investigation by the police, they found out that Limpio has an arrest warrant for the Nilo's case.\n\nOn mid-June, Duterte launched the campaign, called \"Oplan Tambay\", against the loiterers () who violated the city ordinance such as smoking in public places, drinking liquor on the streets, and going shirtless in public. The campaign had at least 8,000 residents were either accosted or apprehended for violating the rules in two weeks. However, this campaign was described by some sectors as another human rights violation being committed by the administration. Randy David, sociology professor of University of the Philippines, said in an opinion statement that Duterte has \"able to instill fear in people's minds even without declaring martial law by ordering the Philippine National Police to crack down on \"tambays\" or street loiterers\". Conversely, Chief Insp. Mercy Villaro, spokesperson of the Mandaue City Police Office said the campaign against loiterers \"would help address the problem of fraternities in the city.\" Gabriela party-list blamed Duterte for high volume of loiterers in the streets, citing the government's failure of ending the ENDO and wage increase.\n\nOn June 25, a netizen posted a photo of commuters holding a tarpaulin banner saying \"Hindi po kami tambay, nag-aabang lang ng jeep. At kung tambay man huwag kaming hulihin, saktan, patayin!\" ( \"We're not hanging out, just waiting for the jeep. And if we do not hang around, strike, kill!\") while waiting for a jeepney ride.\n\nA 25-year-old Genesis 'Tisoy' Argoncillo, who was arrested during an \"Oplan Tambay\" operation on June 15, was allegedly killed by fellow detainees inside the Novaliches Police Station on June 19 after serving 4-days in the detention. According to Argoncillo's elder sister, Marilou Argoncillo, he was watching videos on his phone in front of a store next to their house in Novaliches, Quezon City when police officers arrested him for being a topless. Supt. Carlito Grijaldo, commander of Quezon City Police Station 4, said Argoncillo's death was self-inflicted, claiming the detainee was \"mentally disturbed\". A death certificate shows that Argoncillo's \"immediate cause\" of his death was \"multiple blunt force trauma\" applied to his \"head, neck, chest, and upper extremities.\" QCPD Director Chief Supt. Joselito Esquivel said that Argoncillo had no signs of external injuries when the autopsy conducted. The police earlier claimed that Argoncillo had died from shortness of breath. The police filed the charges against Justin Mercado and Richard Bautista—alleged Sputnik gang members. The two were held responsible for supposedly mauling Argoncillo. According to Esquivel, they have been relieved at least five police officers following the death of Argoncillo.\n\nThere are alleged reports coming from the opposition groups, stating that the military are behind of the killing of the farmers. One coalition claimed that 80 farmers have been killed (October 2017 data) under the Duterte administration. On October 20, 2018, an armed gunmen killed 9 farmers inside the sugarcane plantation in Sagay, Negros Occidental. Initially, the police stated that the New People's Army may be \"behind\" of the massacre. However, opposition groups, likewise, said that Duterte administration and the military \"should be held responsible\" for this, and another group also pointed the finger to Duterte for the act.\n\nThe ties between President Duterte and China has been heavily condemned by the militant groups, particularly the territorial disputes in the South China Sea.\n\nOn July 12, 2018, a red tarpaulin read \"WELCOME TO THE PHILIPPINES, PROVINCE OF CHINA\" (with a Chinese translation below the text) has been installed on several footbridges in Metro Manila, coinciding the two-year anniversary of winning the Philippines on its arbitration case against China. It is possible that the tarpaulin are the reference to a \"joke\" made by Duterte that \"the country can be a province of the Asian giant,\" five months earlier. Chinese Ambassador Zhao Jianhua slammed the banners, calling it \"a \"vicious attack\" on the \"independent foreign policy\" pursued by Duterte. Zhao also said that the Philippines \"can never be any part of China.\" The Philippine National Police were investigating the person behind this installed tarpaulin, however, the person were never known. Presidential Spokesperson Harry Roque said that the banners were \"absurd\" and the \"enemies\" of the government. Opposition lawmakers Bayan Muna Rep. Carlos Zarate and ACT Teachers Rep. Antonio Tinio denied that leftist groups were behind of the tarpaulins.\n\nThe state visit of Chinese President Xi Jinping on November 19–21, 2018 was being protested by the militant groups, who called him to \"go away\" in Mandarin. The reason why they protested is because the Philippines \"sold\" the territories to China. Meanwhile, the hotel in Taguig where Xi will be stay there was being surrounded by the police and secured its perimeter, therefore, the protesters failed to reached the area.\n\nDespite in fact that the US government fiercely condemns Duterte's war on drugs, most of the militant groups – particularly the left-wing side – have also added the United States, alongside with Duterte, in their protests due to \"imperialism,\" with even creating the effigy of President Trump.\n\nThe so-called \"Red October\" plot is the alleged rumor of ousting President Duterte from the office. The alleged plot was announced by the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) on September 24, who said that the Communist Party of the Philippines (CPP), opposition parties such as Liberal Party (LP) and Tindig Pilipinas were behind the planning of the ouster plot. One of the opposition being mentioned about the involvement is ousted Chief Justice Maria Lourdes Sereno, who subsequently denied the ousting or removal of the President. Robredo made a statement on September 25, saying that linking the opposition to the plot is a tactic used in the Martial Law and the claim was baseless. She and Senator Antonio Trillanes denied the plot involvement. The Philippine National Police doubted about the plot. The Makabayan bloc denied the involvement in the plot, though they admit that they will held a massive rally the next month. Department of Labor and Employment Secretary Silvestre Bello III said that the plot is just hearsay and he added that ousting the President is impossible as Duterte is being given a strong support by the people.\n\nOn September 25, the NBI and Philippine Army raided the farm house in Teresa, Rizal where they arrested a Chinese national Lily Ong and confiscated the high-calibre guns. According to the NBI spokesperson Ferdinand Lavin, they still have no evidence proving that Ong and the confiscated guns are connected to the New People's Army (NPA), as well as the \"Red October\" plot. However, AFP spokesperson Brigadier General Edgard Arevalo said that Ong is connected to the rebel groups and she used the farm house as a hideout for NPA members.\nOn October 4, the AFP bared that the CPP is allegedly brainwashed the various universities and colleges in Metro Manila to participate against the government through showing the film of darkest years during the Martial Law era. The AFP also had a list of schools which were allegedly involved the plot: \n\nAside from the list, the AFP also named the school \"Caloocan City College\", which does not exist on Commission on Higher Education's (CHED) record.\n\nShortly after the list has shown, representatives from some above-mentioned lists slammed AFP for being included in their plot, with some calling it \"baseless and dangerous\". The CPP also made a statement, slamming Duterte and the AFP for blaming the communist group in order to justify the plot, and also said that they \"would ultimately bring down Duterte administration\" not the so-called plot.\n\n"}
{"id": "1582422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1582422", "title": "Robert Stadlober", "text": "Robert Stadlober\n\nRobert Stadlober (born 3 August 1982) is an Austrian actor and musician. His sister is Anja Stadlober, also an actress.\n\nRobert Stadlober was born on 3 August 1982 in Friesach in the Austrian province of Carinthia, and grew up in Puchfeld in the Steiermark (Austria) and in Berlin (Germany). As a child he worked as a voiceover artist for several films and he acted in different TV productions and motion picture films also. His largest success is playing the main role as Benjamin Lebert, a partially disabled teenager at a boarding school, in the film \"Crazy\" (2000). Later, he starred in \"Summer Storm\" (2004), a gay coming-of-age story set at a rowing summer-camp. Although The Advocate has claimed that he is bisexual, Stadtlober himself objects to such labelling, saying that he's just had some homosexual experiences and that this is normal.\n\nHe was awarded the \"best young actor\" award at the Montreal International Film Festival in 2004 for his portrayal in \"Summer Storm\".\n\nHe is also a singer and musician. He used to be in the rock Band Gary with David Winter and Rasmus Engler where he was the lead singer and played the guitar. He is now a third of Indie band Escorial Gruen.\n\nFurther, since 2007 he also runs the independent record label Siluh records.\n\nUntil 2007, he made three movies together with Tom Schilling: \"Crazy\" (2000), \"Play It Loud!\" (, 2003) and \"Black Sheep\" (, 2006).\n\nRobert Stadlober currently lives in Berlin (2008).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6753401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6753401", "title": "Robertson Scholars Program", "text": "Robertson Scholars Program\n\nThe Robertson Scholars Leadership Program is a joint merit scholarship and leadership development program at Duke University and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. The scholarship offers participants a unique \"dual citizenship\" at both Duke University and UNC-Chapel Hill. Approximately 36 students are selected from among the more than 60,000 applications to the two schools each year.\n\nThe program was created in 2000 by benefactor Julian Robertson, a 1955 graduate of UNC-Chapel Hill. Mr. Robertson sought to encourage collaboration between Duke and the University of North Carolina and to promote the development of young leaders. His initial $24 million gift as well as his subsequent gifts to the program and the universities are overseen by a Board of Directors including Duke University President Richard Brodhead, UNC-Chapel Hill Chancellor Carol Folt, and Julian Robertson himself.\n\nThe program covers four years of undergraduate tuition, mandatory fees, room and board, and provides recipients full funding for three summer experiences. The summer components of the program have served as a model for DukeEngage, an initiative to offer the opportunity for summer research and internships to all Duke undergraduates.\n\nRobertson Scholars are required to spend the second semester of their sophomore year at the sister campus and may attend classes at the sister campus throughout their undergraduate career.\n\nParticipants have regularly won Truman Scholarships and Fulbright Fellowships. (2005).\n\nShortly before the start of first-year fall semester, incoming Scholars participate in a leadership retreat facilitated by instructors from the National Outdoor Leadership School (NOLS) at the Nantahala Outdoor Center in Bryson City, North Carolina.\n\nFirst-year Scholars develop practical life skills and discuss a wide range of subjects with guest speakers. Topics have included public speaking, presentation skills, personal finances, etiquette, and networking.\n\nColloquium is a one-semester course taken during the Scholar's first year. It provides a forum to discuss issues impacting society at large and ethical challenges facing today's leaders. This course offers Scholars a chance to develop an ethical framework for leading and provides a unique, Robertson-only space to strengthen intellectual ties among the class.\n\nDuring the second semester of their sophomore year, Robertson Scholars live and take classes on their sister campus. The Campus Switch is designed to build stronger educational and community ties between UNC-Chapel Hill and Duke, and to offer Scholars the opportunity to adjust to new situations and thrive in challenging environments.\n\nThe Robertson Senior Capstone Experience is designed to support senior scholars in their transition from college to the next stage of their careers. The Capstone includes a winter retreat and a dinner series that combines reflection on their four-year experience with conversations with Robertson alumni and other young leaders.\n\nScholars spend the summer after their first year living together and participating in community service internships in the United States. Past locations have included Cleveland, Mississippi, New Orleans, Louisiana, and Whitesburg, Kentucky. This summer is designed to strengthen scholars' relationships with each other and to increase awareness of the social and economic challenges of various geographic regions in the US.\n\nScholars spend the summer after sophomore year exploring their academic or cultural interests, either domestically or internationally. Scholars can participate in a university-sponsored program, or they can propose a self-designed project to pursue individually or with other students.\n\nScholars spend the summer after junior year engaged in an independent, self-designed project intended to focus their interests and launch them into life after college. Projects have included research for honors theses, pre-professional internships, and expansions of work undertaken in previous Robertson summers.\n\n"}
{"id": "32857794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32857794", "title": "Saint Joseph's Teachers' College", "text": "Saint Joseph's Teachers' College\n\nSt. Joseph's Teachers' College is a Roman Catholic teacher training college in Kingston, Jamaica. It was founded in 1897 by the Franciscan Sisters of Allegany a religious order for women in the Roman Catholic Church in Jamaica.\n\nOver the years, the institution has undergone development and expansion both physically and in its academic programmes.\n\nThe College is a member of the Joint Board of Teacher Education (part of the University of the West Indies, Mona, Jamaica) and offers two Joint Board Programmes:\n\nThe College also offers a bachelor's degree Programme in School Leadership & Management for Principals, Vice Principals, Senior Teachers and Trained teachers.\n\nA B.Ed. in Primary Education is also,offered part-time over a five-years period in collaboration with Mount Saint Vincent University, Halifax, Nova Scotia.\n\nThis institution also consists of Dormitories where students from far parish can board.\n\nSimilarly, a Master of Education (M. Ed) in Primary Education is offered part-time over two years in collaboration with Mount Saint Vincent University, Halifax, Nova Scotia.\n\n"}
{"id": "31584130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31584130", "title": "Satish Bahadur", "text": "Satish Bahadur\n\nSatish Bahadur (26 November 1925 - 23 July 2010), was an Indian film critic who served as Professor of Film Appreciation (1963–83) at the Film and Television Institute of India, Pune, India, and a close associate of Marie Seton, Vijaya Mulay and PK Nair.\n\nUntil his death in Pune, Satish continued to be actively involved with film appreciation and teaching of cinema. According to the obituary in The Indian Express, he was \"...one of the founding teachers of the FTII, he played a crucial role in shaping the policies and vision of the Institute. Even today, he is held in high esteem by his students, some of whom are luminaries of the Indian cinema. Arun Khopkar, filmmaker and student of Bahadur, was quoted as saying, '\"...from day one, he became the guiding light in my life. Like a music teacher who explains the intricacies of taal and laya to his students, he would unveil countless aspects of films for us. Unlike many teachers who overshadow their students, he had the knack to bring the best out of his students. In fact, he was the one who started the concept of film diary amongst FTII students. I have this habit of calling the old, good and late faculty of the institute, the ghost faculty. Now, he belongs to that and sitting up there, he will continue to guide his students\".\n\nBorn in Moradabad, he studied at the University of Agra and the Allahabad University in the state of Uttar Pradesh. He was married to Vinodini Bahadur (1928-2016). The couple had a daughter Nandini and a son Apurva (named for the protagonist of Apur Sansar).\n\nTaught Economics to postgraduate students at DAV College, Kanpur and University Institute of Social Sciences, Agra.\n\nPromotional work in the emerging film society movement in India. \nOrganized Agra Film Society for citizens, and Agra University Film Society for the campus.\nFounder member of the Federation of the Film Societies in India.\nEditorial committee of Indian Film Culture.\nResearch work on Indian components of the International Sociological Association project on Study of the Film Hero in seventeen different cultures.\n\nProfessor of Film Appreciation, Film and TV Institute of India, Pune.\n\nWorked with the one-month-long summer extension program in Film Appreciation at Pune. The summer course, 2006 was the 31st in this series.\n\nTaught numerous short duration courses in Film Appreciation (ranging from three days to ten days) at various cultural and educational organizations in India and also in Bangladesh..\n\n1967-2003:\n\nNumerous papers on different aspects of the film studies. Of special value are the following:\n\nHe worked on several film and television programs explaining the basic concepts of Film Appreciation. Of special interest are the following:\n\nDuring 2006, the Asian Film Foundation, Mumbai presented the Satyajit Ray Memorial Award \nto Satish Bahadur for \"Promoting Film as Art.\"\n"}
{"id": "20859217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20859217", "title": "Sichuan Agricultural University", "text": "Sichuan Agricultural University\n\nSichuan Agricultural University (SAU) is a university located in Ya'an city, Sichuan province, China, and part of the “Project 211”, specialized in biotechnology and agricultural sciences, as well as offering degrees in physical science, engineering, economics, management, veterinary medicine, liberal arts, pedagogy and law. It is a Chinese Ministry of Education Double First Class Discipline University, with Double First Class status in certain disciplines.\n\nThe institution was founded in 1906 as Sichuan Tong Sheng Agricultural School. It is the first public agricultural college in Sichuan Province. In 1935, it became a component of National Sichuan University. In 1956 it moved from Chengdu to Ya'an, where Sichuan Agricultural College was founded as an independent institution in 1956. In 1985 it was renamed as Sichuan Agricultural University.\n\nNowadays, Sichuan Agricultural University (SICAU) has three campuses, respectively located in Chengdu city, Ya'an city, and Dujiangyan city. SICAU belongs to the 211 State Key University Group in China. The group member universities was officially selected by Chinese Central Government for priority funding as these universities were evaluated to rank in the top 100 in China for their distinguished achievements in research and education.\n\nWith a total area of 4,500 mu (300 ha.) and an educational population of about 40,000, SAU consists of three branches, i.e. the base campus in Ya’an city, the Dujiangyan campus in Dujiangyan city and the Wenjiang campus in Chengdu.\n\nYa'an Campus is the main campus of Sichuan Agricultural University, which covers an area equivalent to almost a quarter of the downtown of Ya'an City. Most colleges, undergraduate and graduate programs are organized here.\n\nDujiangyan Campus(Sichuan Forestry College for the original) mainly include some generally and specialist undergraduate education.\n\nChengdu Campus located in Wenjiang District, Chengdu, Sichuan, which covers an area of 600 acres.\n\nThe university governs 18 colleges, 10 research institutes and centers. The university possesses 7 stations for post-doctoral research, 40 disciplines with the power to award doctoral degrees, 86 specialized disciplines for masters and 74 for undergraduates. At present, SICAU has 760 senior tutors for doctorate and master students. Among the 760 are 2 academicians of the Chinese Academy of Engineering, 5 national outstanding senior experts, one awardee of the “National Scientific Fund for Outstanding Young Fellows”, 7 national middle-aged and young experts awarded for their outstanding contribution to the country, 9 academic candidates of the national “Bai-Qian-Wan Talents Project” (100-1000-10,000 Talents Project) and one renowned teacher at the state level.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35531895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35531895", "title": "Stay with It", "text": "Stay with It\n\nStay with It is a campaign in the United States intended to encourage and motivate engineering students to stay with the field of study and graduate with an engineer's degree.\n\nIt is a collaboration between the President's Council on Jobs and Competitiveness, the private sector and academia.\n\nIt officially launched on March 14, 2012, with a Day of Engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology, and made available to a nationwide audience through a webcast on Facebook Live. The webcast opened with a message from President Barack Obama.\n\nMajor General Charles F. Bolden, Jr., Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, noted the occasion, saying that his message to students is simple: \"Stay With It! Stay with your studies. Stay with your research. Stay with your dreams as you prepare to take your rightful place as the next great generation of American engineers, innovators and leaders.\"\n\nCongresswoman Doris Matsui addressed students after watching Only Won perform \"I Wanna Be an Engineer\" at the Sacramento State Stay With It event. \"We need you, the country needs you – and engineering is not boring, it's fun. Engineers dream up, invent and build technologies that change the world. We will continue to lead, but a lot depends on the people who are studying engineering. … I encourage you to Stay with it – and dream!\"\n\n"}
{"id": "46539716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46539716", "title": "Stephen Paxson", "text": "Stephen Paxson\n\nStephen Paxson (18081881) was a missionary with the American Sunday School Union. He is known for starting over 1300 Sunday schools in frontier rural America with a total attendance of about 83,000 and is known as the Apostle to Children and possibly the single biggest influence in evangelizing the American frontier.\n\nStephen Paxson was born to Joseph and Mary Lester Paxson in New Lisbon, Ohio, one of seven children. Joseph died when the children were young, .” and poverty forced the mother to find other families to take the children in. Stephen was indentured to Harman Fagan with the promise that Stephen would be permitted to attend school at least three months a year..” However Stephen had been born with a speech impediment and was dubbed “Stuttering Stephen.” Because of his handicap, he never attended school. On the first day, he was so excited that he could not get out his name or age. The children laughed, and the teacher returned him home with a note saying not to come back until he could talk. He never did receive a formal education, but he was inquisitive and determined, so despite having to work constantly, he taught himself to read.\n\nHe was also crippled and lame throughout life, living in constant pain. He became a hatmaker and a favorite fiddler for local Saturday night dances.\n\nPaxson was not a churchgoer nor a professing Christian in early life, but when he was in his 30’s, his daughter Mary begged him to attend church to help her win a gold star. He agreed to get close enough to only put his foot in the door, hoping he would be counted for Mary’s prize, but when he got to the door, Mary pulled him inside. They needed a teacher, and Paxson was pressed into service. The students read from the Bible and Paxson asked questions out of a book. Paxson returned. At first he thought he was a moral man who had no need of salvation, Christ or the church, but after four years of thinking about the instruction in the Sunday school book, he was personally converted to Christ.\n\nAfter his conversion in Sunday school, his enthusiasm knew no bounds. Soon he quit his job as a hatmaker, the family sold their home in Winchester, Illinois and moved to a simple log cabin home on Hickory Hill in Pike County, so that he could become a Sunday school missionary. His salary was one dollar a day. Highly motivated, Paxson worked on overcoming his handicaps. He learned to walk without showing his discomfort and overcame stuttering by practicing taking a deep breath and then expelling it slowly, accompanied by hand gesturers.\nTraveling on horseback, Paxson traveled and ministered in an area stretching from the Great Lakes to the Gulf of Mexico and from the Allegheny Mountains to the Rockies. He made a habit of always stopping to visit every child he met, hoping to persuade him to come to Sunday school. This habit became so ingrained that his horse learned to stop whenever a child was in sight. Because of this, he has been called “the Apostle to the children” (Willis, p. 50) He kept his mind of the goal of establishing a Sunday school in every community, and he seized virtually every opportunity, talking to parents, town leaders, and children. His horse, it is said, automatically turned in at every school and church without command.\n\nDuring the winter months, travel was impossible on the frontier, so Paxson used those times to visit the larger towns of the East, seeking to start Sunday schools in each community there, and raising funds for the work of the American Sunday School Union, in particular for furnishing mini-libraries of Sunday school books for frontier communities at half cost. This was no idle time. Paxson spoke five nights a week and three to five times on Sunday.\n\nPaxson, hardened to pain through his physical infirmities, endured through many hardships. He traveled roads that could barely be called such, over 100,000 miles by horseback in his lifetime. He traveled in all kinds of weather. One of his favorite sayings was, “A Sunday school born in a snowstorm will never be scared by a white frost.” He had no guaranteed accommodations in his travels. He also endured the hardship of separation from his family for long periods. However, his wife was capable, loving and devoted, and cared well for the children during these absences.\n\nThe Sunday schools he started were Union Sunday schools in which many Christian denominations participated, studying the Bible together. His ministry was extremely fruitful. He once set a record of starting forty new Sunday schools in forty days! His ministry extended forty years through two generations and brought thousands to faith in Christ. It is said that one man moved twice in an effort to avoid Paxson and his Sunday schools. When Paxson showed up at the third place to which he had moved, however, he came to hear his lecture and was so moved that he enrolled himself and his seven sons in the Sunday school and gave the first donation toward a Sunday school library.\n\nIn his later years, Paxson retired to the home office of the American Sunday School Union in St. Louis. There, he was placed in charge of the Sunday School Book Depository which fulfilled orders for the mini-libraries for which he had so often raised funds. He was very strict about orders being fulfilled the same day they were received. While in St. Louis, he and his family attended Pilgrim Congregational Church and he continued to invite every child he saw to Sunday school. He also wrote to encourage Sunday school conventions whenever he could not attend.\nIn October 1880, the Paxsons recelebrate their marriage of 50 years at their home in St. Louis. Paxson spent time making scrapbooks of his labors and writing letters of encouragement to others.\n\nPaxson was invalid the last three months of his life. Several days before his death, when it was evident he would not recover, his son, Rev. W.P. Paxson asked him if he should die, if it was all right. Paxson replied, “Why son, that was settled many years ago.” He left this message to friends: “I die at my post. All is clear and bright and peaceful. No fear, no tremor, but rest, comfort in God.” He died at home in 1881.\n\nIn his lifetime, Paxson directly started 1300 frontier Sunday schools and aided in the establishment of 1700 others. Paxson’s oldest son, at age 15 joined in his father’s missionary work. He went on to establish more than 700 more Sunday schools himself. Paxson has been called “the most important single influence in evangelizing the American frontier.\n"}
{"id": "27846733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27846733", "title": "Tartu Academy of Theology", "text": "Tartu Academy of Theology\n\nTartu Academy of Theology () is a private university in Tartu, Estonia, founded on 16 September 1992.\n\n"}
{"id": "1999643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1999643", "title": "Tole Mour", "text": "Tole Mour\n\nThe SSV \"Tole Mour\" is a schooner and sail training vessel operating in the Channel Islands of California, off the West Coast of the United States.\n\nBuilt by the Nichols Bros. Boat Builders on Whidbey Island in Washington’s Puget Sound to withstand the extreme conditions of the South Pacific, she is extremely seaworthy and meets or exceeds all of the United States Coast Guard’s regulations as a Sailing School Vessel, while offering luxurious accommodations in comparison to other tall ships. At 229 gross registered tons she is the largest active tall ship on the West Coast.\n\nThe \"Tole Mour\" was originally commissioned by the Marimed Foundation of Hawai’i in 1988 as a self-contained primary health care support vessel, operating in the US trust territory protectorate of the Marshall Islands. The name of the ship was selected by a competition of Marshall Islands school children, and means 'A Gift of Life and Health' in the Marshallese language. With onboard medical, dental and ophthalmological offices, the \"Tole Mour\" provided medical services to over 15,000 islanders over a period of 4 years, until the Marshallese government commissioned their own fleet of medical delivery vessels and the \"Tole Mour\" returned to Hawai’i to serve other purposes.\n\nIn her most recent incarnation, she was part of the Guided Discoveries’ Catalina Island Marine Institute, offering sail training, oceanography and marine biology education to hundreds of school-aged participants a year. The professional crew was housed in up into 6 double cabins and 2 master rooms within her 123 feet on deck and beam. Up to 36 youth participants could be accommodated in cabins housing 4, 8 and 10 berths. Her previous medical requirements provided areas for laboratory equipment, touch tanks, and aquariums.\n\nIn 2014, the \"Tole Mour\" was sold to Island Windjammers, a charter cruise company operating in the Caribbean Sea. She underwent a refitting, as well as a name change, and is now known as \"Vela\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5277031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5277031", "title": "Tournament of the Towns", "text": "Tournament of the Towns\n\nThe Tournament of the Towns (\"International Mathematics Tournament of the Towns\", \"Турнир Городов\", \"Международный Математический Турнир Городов\") is an international mathematical competition for school students originating in Russia.\nThe contest was created by mathematician Nikolay Konstantinov and has participants from over 100 cities in many different countries.\n\nThere are two rounds in this contest: Fall (October) and Spring (February–March) of the same academic year. \nBoth have an O-Level (Basic) paper and an A-Level (Advanced) paper separated by 1–2 weeks. \nThe O-Level contains around 5 questions and the A-Level contains around 7 questions. \nThe duration of the exams is 5 hours for both Levels. \nThe A-Level problems are more difficult than O-Level but have a greater maximum score. \nParticipating students are divided into two divisions; \nJunior (usually grades 7–10) and Senior (two last school grades, usually grades 11–12). \nTo account for age differences inside of each division, students in different grades have different loadings (coefficients). A contestant's final score is his/her highest score from the four exams. It is not necessary albeit recommended to write all four exams. \n\nDifferent towns are given handicaps to account for differences in population. A town's score is the average of the scores of its N best students, where its population is N hundred thousand. It is also worth noting that the minimum value of N is 5.\n\nTournament of Towns differs from many other similar competitions by its philosophy relying much more upon ingenuity than the drill. First, problems are difficult (especially in A Level in the Senior division where they are comparable with those at International Mathematical Olympiad but much more ingenious and less technical). Second, it allows the participants to choose problems they like as for each paper the participant's score is the sum of his/her 3 best answers.\n\nThe problems are mostly combinatorial, with the occasional geometry, number theory or algebra problem. They have a different flavour to problems seen in other mathematics competitions, and are usually quite challenging. Some of the problems have become classics, in particular two from the Autumn 1984 paper.\n\nThe first competition, held in the 1979–1980 academic year, was called the Olympiad of Three Towns. They were Moscow, Kiev and Riga. The reputation of the competition grew and the following year, it was called Tournament of the Towns. The Tournament of the Towns was almost closed down in its early years of development but in 1984 it gained recognition when it became a sub-committee of the USSR Academy of Sciences.\n\nDiplomas are awarded by the Central Committee to students who have achieved high scores (after their papers have been rechecked by the Central Jury). Different certificates are also awarded by Local Committees.\n\nStudents performing outstandingly (higher than Diploma) receive an invitation to the Annual International Mathematics Tournament of Towns Summer Conference where during several days they participate in team research projects consisting of the sequence of related problems.\n\n"}
{"id": "39901083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39901083", "title": "UCBLogo", "text": "UCBLogo\n\nUCBLogo, also known as Berkeley Logo, is closest to a \"de facto\" standard Logo programming language with its facilities for handling lists, files, I/O, and recursion in scripts, and can be used to teach most computer science concepts, as UC Berkeley lecturer Brian Harvey did in his \"Computer Science Logo Style\" trilogy. For tertiary level teaching, however, Logo has been superseded by Scheme, and scripting languages.\n\nUCBLogo has only a rudimentary graphical user interface, so several projects exist that provide a better interface. MSWLogo and its successor \"FMSLogo\", for Microsoft Windows, are commonly used in schools in the United Kingdom and Australia.\n\nLogo was designed in spirit of low threshold and no ceiling, which enables easy entry by novices and yet meet the needs of high-powered users. Animations require both the ability to draw shapes and to erase shapes. The process is the same, except that in the former a line is deposited on the display device and in the latter a line is removed. Using the turtle analogy, the turtle's pen must paint, and the turtle's pen must erase. The turtle can be set to erase anything below it, using the command PENERASE (PE), while the pen can be set to start drawing again with the command PENPAINT (PPT), in UCBLogo.\n\n The analogy of a turtle with a pen attached to its tail is often used. The turtle's pen can be lifted and lowered, thus drawing a rudimentary dotted line.\n\nAn example code:\nThere are three datatypes in UCBLogo:\n\nA number is a special case of word.\n\nThere is no static typing. The interpreter detects the datatype by context.\n\nThere are two important symbols:\n\nA number is a special case of self-evaluation—it really could be written with a quote. 2 is really \"2\n\nVariable assignment (e.g. codice_3) is handled in Logo with the codice_4 command, as exemplified by these two equivalent statements:\n\ncodice_4 takes 2 parameters, the second of which here is codice_6. codice_7 takes two 'parameters' and is an 'operation', thus the calculation is possible.codice_8 evaluates to codice_9, and codice_10 takes the contents of the thing called codice_11, these are summed giving a number.\n\nThe effect of codice_4 is to place the result into the first parameter. From a programmatical perspective, the first argument to codice_4 is passed by reference, while the second is passed by value.\n\nVariables do not have to be declared before use; their scope is then global.\n\nA variable may be declared codice_14, then its scope is limited to that procedure and any procedures that it calls (a.k.a. dynamic scope). Calling a procedure with inputs (the name usually used for arguments in the Logo literature) also creates local variables that hold the argument values.\n\nLogo inherits lists from Lisp, and they are its primary method of storing vectors. Arrays are also provided.\n\nLogo provides several common control structures.\nThere is one conditional structure.\n\nThere are three iteration commands:\n\nRecursion is Logo's preferred processing paradigm.\n\nLogo also provides list-based control structures. The basic idea is of two lists:\n\neach of the commands is applied in turn to each of the data items. There are several of these template commands with names like MAP, APPLY, FILTER, FOREACH, REDUCE and CASCADE. They represent four flavours of template iteration, known as explicit-slot, named-procedure, named-slot (or Lambda), and procedure-text.\n\nA property list is a special list where the odd number items are property names, and the even are property values. There are three commands to process property list.\nText may be written to the command window (output stream) using codice_15 and to the graphics window using codice_16\n\nThe standard commands are codice_17 with the normal input stream being the keyboard. In Unix tradition the input stream can be changed, so input can come from a disk file. Similarly, output can be redirected.\n\nCommands may be written on one line, or more. Many commands have mnemonic short forms; for example codice_18 and codice_19 are coded codice_20 and codice_21 respectively. This makes the input less onerous. Anything written after the ; (semicolon) is ignored, allowing the coder to insert comments.\n\nThe Hello World program in Logo looks like this:\n\nThere are three loop (repeat) commands; is one. This draws a square.\n\nThe command codice_22 is executed four times.\nAn approximation of a circle can be constructed easily with 360 small rotations and a step forward: . Loops may be nested, giving results with little effort.\n\nAnother example for nested Loops\n\nEach line is made up of function calls, of which there are two types:\n\nA command is similar to a Pascal procedure, and an operation is similar to a Pascal function. (See also: command-query separation, where a query is an operation in Logo). A special subset of operations, called predicates, which just output the word codice_27 or codice_28, are conventionally written with a final codice_29. Examples include codice_30, codice_31, and codice_32.\n\nProcedures can be defined on the command line, using the TO END pair:\n\nHowever, in some early Logos the procedure is limited to the physical line length of the input device.\n\nAll Logos can invoke an Editor, usually by EDALL. In the editor, procedures may be written over many lines, as nothing is interpreted until the edit is complete.\n\nThe new word is saved into the available vocabulary, but the definition will be lost once the Logo session is over. Internally procedures are words and in this case, any time codice_33 is entered, the sequence codice_34 will be executed. The word codice_33 can be used as a command; for example, codice_36 would repeat the codice_33 operation four times.\n\nA WAIT delay between the drawing and the erasing can introduce the illusion of motion:\n\nLogo can pass extra information to its words, and return information. The procedure, (word) is instructed to expect something and give that something a name. The colon is used for this purpose. It passes the information \"by value\" and the colon is pronounced as \"the value of\". When the procedure is run with a command such as CHAIR 200, the word :thesize takes the value 200 so when FD :thesize is executed, the interpreter understands \"FD, the value of 200\".\n\nMathematics in Logo uses prefix notation, like: . Infix is also available.\n\nLogo allows for recursion, the process where a procedure calls itself.\n\n ? print filter [?>2] [1 2 3 4]\n\n to max :a :b\n\n ? to average [:nums] 2\n\n ? to plural :word\n\n ? to pigl :word\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27020311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27020311", "title": "Škoda Auto University", "text": "Škoda Auto University\n\nThe Škoda Auto University (Czech: \"Škoda Auto Vysoká škola\", abbreviated ŠAVŠ) is a private university located in Mladá Boleslav, Czech Republic. Škoda Auto University was founded in 2000 and to date is the first and the only company-owned university in the Czech Republic. It was established by automobile manufacturer Škoda Auto. It provides Bachelor and Master studies as full-time or part-time study. Škoda Auto University has been involved into the European Union project Erasmus since 2005.\n\nUniversity is located 50 kilometres from Prague. It is situated in the historical centre of the town.\n\nMore than one thousand students study at Škoda Auto University at the present time.\n\nNumber of students on 24. October 2011 \n\nThe university offers three bachelor study programs and four masters programs in Czech language.\n\nBachelor study programs: \n\nMaster study programs: \n\nUniversity offers 2 accredited master study programs in English language:\n\n"}
