{"id": "64243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64243", "title": "Aquatic ape hypothesis", "text": "Aquatic ape hypothesis\n\nThe aquatic ape hypothesis (AAH), also referred to as aquatic ape theory (AAT) and more recently the waterside model, is the idea that the ancestors of modern humans were more aquatic and as such were habitual waders, swimmers and divers. The hypothesis in its present form was proposed by the marine biologist Alister Hardy in 1960, who argued that a branch of apes was forced by competition over terrestrial habitats to hunt for food such as shellfish on the sea shore and sea bed leading to adaptations that explained significant characteristics such as man's functional hairlessness and bipedalism. This proposal was built upon by Elaine Morgan, who added feminist criticism in opposition to the male image of the \"mighty hunter\" being presented in popular anthropological works by Robert Ardrey and others. While her 1972 book \"The Descent of Woman\" was very popular with the public, it attracted little attention from scientists and those who did comment complained that there was no way of testing hypotheses about soft body parts and human habits in the distant past.\n\nMorgan removed the feminist content in several later books and her ideas were discussed at a 1987 conference devoted to the idea. Her 1990 book \"Scars of Evolution\" received some favorable reviews but the thesis was subject to scathing criticism from the anthropologist John Langdon in 1997, who characterized it as an \"umbrella hypothesis\" and argued that the hypothesis is not more parsimonious than simply rejecting the hypothesis.\n\nThe hypothesis remains highly controversial and is generally more popular with the lay public than with scientists. Though much of the mainstream academic community ignored or derided the initial proposal, academics in the last 15 years have conducted research at least in part inspired by AAH. Scientists supportive of AAH have published research that indicates that at some point in the last five million years humans became dependent on essential fatty acids and iodine, which are found in abundance in sea resources. Efficient function of the human brain requires these nutrients.\n\nThe German pathologist Max Westenhöfer (1871–1957) discussed in 1942 various human characteristics (hairlessness, subcutaneous fat, the regression of the olfactory organ, webbed fingers, direction of the body hair etc.) that could have derived from an aquatic past, quoting several other authors who had made similar speculations. As he did not believe human beings were apes, he believed this might have been during the Cretaceous, contrary to what is possible given the geologic and evolutionary biology evidence available at the time. He stated: \"The postulation of an aquatic mode of life during an early stage of human evolution is a tenable hypothesis, for which further inquiry may produce additional supporting evidence.\" He later abandoned the concept.\n\nIndependently of Westenhöfer's writings, the marine biologist Alister Hardy had since 1930 also hypothesized that humans may have had ancestors more aquatic than previously imagined, although his work, unlike Westenhöfer's, was rooted in the Darwinian consensus. On the advice of his colleagues, Hardy delayed presenting the hypothesis for approximately thirty years. After he had become a respected academic and knighted for contributions to marine biology, Hardy finally voiced his thoughts in a speech to the British Sub-Aqua Club in Brighton on 5 March 1960. Several national newspapers reported sensational presentations of Hardy's ideas, which he countered by explaining them more fully in an article in \"New Scientist\" on 17 March 1960: \"My thesis is that a branch of this primitive ape-stock was forced by competition from life in the trees to feed on the sea-shores and to hunt for food, shellfish, sea-urchins etc., in the shallow waters off the coast.\"\n\nThe idea was generally ignored by the scientific community after the article was published. Some interest was received, notably from the geographer Carl Sauer whose views on the role of the seashore in human evolution \"stimulated tremendous progress in the study of coastal and aquatic adaptations\" inside marine archaeology. In 1967, the hypothesis was mentioned in \"The Naked Ape\", a popular book by the zoologist Desmond Morris, who reduced Hardy's phrase \"more aquatic ape-like ancestors\" to the bare \"aquatic ape\", commenting that \"despite its most appealing indirect evidence, the aquatic theory lacks solid support\".\n\nWhile traditional descriptions of 'savage' existence identified three common sources of sustenance: gathering of fruit and nuts, fishing and hunting, in the 1950s, the anthropologist Raymond Dart focused on hunting and gathering as the likely organizing concept of human society in prehistory, and hunting was the focus of the screenwriter Robert Ardrey's 1961 best-seller \"African Genesis\". Another screenwriter, Elaine Morgan, responded to this focus in her 1972 \"Descent of Woman\", which parodied the conventional picture of \"the Tarzanlike figure of the prehominid who came down from the trees, saw a grassland teeming with game, picked up a weapon and became a Mighty Hunter,\" and pictured a more peaceful scene of humans by the seashore. She took her lead from a section in Morris's 1967 book which referred to the possibility of an \"Aquatic Ape\" period in evolution, his name for the speculation by the biologist Alister Hardy in 1960. When it aroused no reaction in the academic community, she dropped the feminist criticism and wrote a series of books–\"The Aquatic Ape\" (1982), \"The Scars of Evolution\" (1990), \"The Descent of the Child\" (1994) and \"The Aquatic Ape Hypothesis\" (1997)–which explored the issues in more detail.\n\nHardy's hypothesis as outlined in the \"New Scientist\" was:\nHardy argued a number of features of modern humans are characteristic of aquatic adaptations. He pointed to human's lack of body hair as being analogous to the same lack seen in certain other marine mammals, such as the whale and the hippopotamus, and noted the layer of subcutaneous fat humans have that Hardy believed other apes lacked, although it has been shown that captive apes with ample access to food have levels of subcutaneous fat similar to humans. Additional features cited by Hardy include the location of the trachea in the throat rather than the nasal cavity, the human propensity for front-facing copulation, tears and eccrine sweating, though these claimed pieces of evidence have alternative evolutionary adaptationist explanations that do not invoke an aquatic context. Hardy additionally posited that bipedalism evolved first as an aid to wading before becoming the usual means of human locomotion, and tool use evolved out of the use of rocks to crack open shellfish. These last arguments were cited by later proponents of AAH as an inspiration for their research programs.\n\nMorgan summed up her take on the hypothesis in 2011:\n\nAcademics who have commented on the aquatic ape hypothesis include categorical opponents (generally members of the community of academic anthropology) who reject almost all of the claims related to the hypothesis. Other academics have argued that the rejection of Hardy and Morgan is partially unfair given that other explanations which suffer from similar problems are not so strongly opposed. A conference devoted to the subject was held at Valkenburg, Netherlands in 1987. Its 22 participants included academic proponents and opponents of the theory and several neutral observers headed by the anthropologist Vernon Reynolds of Oxford University. His summary at the end was:\n\nThe AAH has received little attention from mainstream anthropologists and paleoanthropologists. It is not accepted as empirically supported by the scholarly community, and has been met with significant skepticism.\n\nIn a 1997 critique, anthropologist John Langdon considered the AAH under the heading of an \"umbrella hypothesis\" and argued that the difficulty of ever disproving such a thing meant that although the idea has the appearance of being a parsimonious explanation, it actually was no more powerful an explanation than the null hypothesis that human evolution is not particularly guided by interaction with bodies of water. Langdon argued that however popular the idea was with the public, the \"umbrella\" nature of the idea means that it cannot serve as a proper scientific hypothesis. Langdon also objected to Morgan's blanket opposition to the \"savannah hypothesis\" which he took to be the \"collective discipline of paleoanthropology\". He observed that some anthropologists had regarded the idea as not worth the trouble of a rebuttal. In addition, the evidence cited by AAH proponents mostly concerned developments in soft tissue anatomy and physiology, whilst paleoanthropologists rarely speculated on evolutionary development of anatomy beyond the musculoskeletal system and brain size as revealed in fossils. After a brief description of the issues under 26 different headings, he produced a summary critique of these with mainly negative judgments. His main conclusion was that the AAH was unlikely ever to be disproved on the basis of comparative anatomy, and that the one body of data that could potentially disprove it was the fossil record.\n\nAnthropologist John D. Hawks wrote that it is fair to categorize the AAH as pseudoscience because of the social factors that inform it, particularly the personality-led nature of the hypothesis and the unscientific approach of its adherents. Physical anthropologist Eugenie Scott has described the aquatic ape hypothesis as an instance of \"crank anthropology\" akin to other pseudoscientific ideas in anthropology such as alien-human interbreeding and Bigfoot.\n\nIn \"The Accidental Species: Misunderstandings of Human Evolution\" (2013), the \"Nature\" editor Henry Gee remarked on how a seafood diet can aid in the development of the human brain. He nevertheless criticized the AAH because \"it's always a problem identifying features [such as body fat and hairlessness] that humans have now and inferring that they must have had some adaptive value in the past.\" Also \"it's notoriously hard to infer habits [such as swimming] from anatomical structures\".\n\nPopular support for the AAH has become an embarrassment to some anthropologists who want to explore the effects of water on human evolution without engaging with the AAH, which they consider \"emphasizes adaptations to deep water (or at least underwater) conditions\". Foley and Lahr suggest that \"to flirt with anything watery in paleoanthropology can be misinterpreted\", but argue \"there is little doubt that throughout our evolution we have made extensive use of terrestrial habitats adjacent to fresh water, since we are, like many other terrestrial mammals, a heavily water-dependent species.\" But they allege that \"under pressure from the mainstream, AAH supporters tended to flee from the core arguments of Hardy and Morgan towards a more generalized emphasis on fishy things.\"\n\nIn \"The Waterside Ape\", a pair of 2016 BBC Radio documentaries, David Attenborough, discussed a \"move towards mainstream acceptance” for the AAH in the light of new research findings. Scientists interviewed included Kathlyn Stewart and Michael Crawford who had published papers in a special issue of the \"Journal of Human Evolution\" on \"The Role of Freshwater and Marine Resources in the Evolution of the Human Diet, Brain and Behavior\". Responding to the documentaries in a newspaper article, paleoanthropologist Alice Roberts dismissed the AAH as a distraction \"from the emerging story of human evolution that is more interesting and complex\" and that it had become \"a theory of everything\" that is simultaneously \"too extravagant and too simple\".\n\nPhilosopher Daniel Dennett, in his discussion of evolutionary philosophy, commented\n\"During the last few years, when I have found myself in the company of distinguished biologists, evolutionary theorists, paleoanthropologists and other experts, I have often asked them to tell me, please, exactly why Elaine Morgan must be wrong about the aquatic theory. I haven’t yet had a reply worth mentioning, aside from those who admit, with a twinkle in their eyes, that they have also wondered the same thing.\" He challenged both Elaine Morgan and the scientific establishment in that \"Both sides are indulging in adapt[at]ionist Just So stories\". Along the same lines, historian Erika Lorraine Milam noted that independent of Morgan's work, certain standard explanations of human development in paleoanthropology have been roundly criticized for lacking evidence while being based on sexist assumptions. Anatomy lecturer Bruce Charlton gave Morgan's book \"Scars of Evolution\" an enthusiastic review in the British Medical Journal in 1991, calling it \"exceptionally well written\" and \"a good piece of science\".\n\nIn 1995, paleoanthropologist Phillip Tobias declared that the savannah hypothesis was dead, because the open conditions did not exist when humanity's precursors stood upright and that therefore the conclusions of the Valkenberg conference were no longer valid. Tobias praised Morgan's book \"Scars of Evolution\" as a \"remarkable book\" though he said that he did not agree with all of it. Tobias and his student further criticised the orthodox hypothesis by arguing that the coming out of the forest of man's precursors had been an unexamined assumption of evolution since the days of Lamarck, and followed by Darwin, Wallace and Haeckel, well before Raymond Dart used it.\n\nAlister Hardy was astonished and mortified in 1960 when the national Sunday papers carried banner headlines \"Oxford professor says man a sea ape\", causing problems with his Oxford colleagues. As he later said to his ex-pupil Desmond Morris, \"Of course I then had to write an article to refute this saying no this is just a guess, a rough hypothesis, this isn't a proven fact. And of course we're not related to dolphins.\"\n\nElaine Morgan's 1972 book \"Descent of Woman\" became an international best-seller, a Book of the Month selection in the United States and was translated into ten languages. Part of this was related to the growing women's liberation movement as Morgan's work was inspired by a feminist critique of then-standard anthropological ideas. She assumed that the total lack of response to her book from the academic community was due to the fact that she was an outsider. \"The response I had not foreseen was total silence. But in respect of the aquatic theme that is what I got from them - and with few exceptions still get. That kind of silence is a virtually unbeatable strategy\". Morgan removed the feminist critique and rewrote the scientific text, publishing it as \"The Aquatic Ape\" ten years later, but it did not garner greater reaction from scientists.\n\nAlthough the general reaction to Hardy and Morgan's proposals was silence by the relevant academic community, there have been over the last decades some academics who were inspired by AAH proposals, even to the point of pursuing particular lines of research on its basis. Some of the academics and professional scientists who have supported the AAH include Michael Crawford, Professor and Director of the Institute of Brain Chemistry and Human Nutrition at Imperial College London, his former postdoctoral researcher, Stephen Cunnane, now professor of medicine at Université de Sherbrooke, Erika Schagatay, professor of Environmental Physiology at Mid Sweden University, Kathlyn M. Stewart, Section Head of Palaeobiology at the Canadian Museum of Nature, and Tom Brenna, Professor of Paediatrics and Chemistry at University of Texas.\n\nAfter reviewing 30 different explanations of bipedalism, evolutionary biologist Carsten Niemitz proposed a \"shore dweller\" hypothesis of wading, though distancing himself from the AAH. He records 10 monkey and ape species, including chimpanzees and gorillas, who have been observed wading on two feet. Niemitz's hypothesis places the wading bipedalism of hominids as occurring in the late Miocene. Other researchers, including AAH proponent Algis Kuliukas, performed experiments to measure the comparative energy used when lacking orthograde posture with using fully upright posture. Although it is harder to walk upright with bent knees on land, this difference gradually diminishes as the depth of water increases and is still practical in thigh-high water.\n\nIn a critique of the AAH, Henry Gee questioned any link between bipedalism and diet. Gee writes that early humans have been bipedal for 5 million years, but our ancestor's \"fondness for seafood\" emerged a mere 200,000 years ago.\n\nIn their 1989 book \"The Driving Force: Food, Evolution and The Future\", Michael Crawford together with co-author David Marsh wrote about the connections they saw between nutrition and human evolution, and in particular claimed that Omega-3 fatty acids were vital for the development of the brain. \"A branch of the line of primitive ancestral apes was forced by competition to leave the trees and feed on the seashore. Searching for oysters, mussels, crabs, crayfish and so on they would have spent much of their time in the water and an upright position would have come naturally.\" Crawford and Marsh argued that the norm of brain size seen in small and aquatic mammals is similar to humans and they further opine that other primates and carnivores had lost relative brain capacity (though the relationship between brain size and intelligence is not isomorphic). Reviewing their book for the \"New Scientist\", biologists Caroline Pond and Dick Colby were highly critical, saying that the work provided \"no significant new information that would be of interest to biologists\" and that its style was \"speculative, theoretical and in many places so imprecise as to be misleading.\"\n\nAccording to Crawford, \"the evolution of a large brain on the savannahs of Africa was impossible. The only way it could have happened was with the resources of the marine food-web which initiated the growth and development of the brain in the first place\". A group of evolutionary nutritionists and paleontologists led by Cunnane, Stewart, and Crawford published works arguing a correlation between aquatic diet and human brain evolution in their \"shore-based diet scenario\", acknowledging the Hardy/Morgan's thesis as a foundation work of their model. They describe problems in landlocked communities as being supportive of AAH, with reports of cretinism in the Alps since the 18th century and widespread goitres in parts of Africa, which is only prevented by the addition of iodine to diets. According to Cunnane, \"Without the availability of iodized table salt, non-coastal (inland) habitats do not provide foods rich enough to meet human iodine requirements.\" Evidence supports aquatic food consumption in \"Homo\" as early as the Pliocene but its linkage to brain evolution remains controversial.\n\nWhat has been lacking has been the paleontological evidence that early humans consumed fish in significant amounts earlier than tens to hundreds of thousands of years ago. Part of the problem has been the avoidance of taphonomic bias by researchers: most hominin fossils occur in marginal lacustrine environments and the presence of fish remains is therefore no proof of fish consumption. Fish bones often decompose so that special tests are required to detect them. The archaeological record of human fishing and coastal settlement is fundamentally flawed due to postglacial sea level rise.\n\nAside from working as a professor, Schagatay is also an experienced scuba and freediver whose research centers around human diving abilities. She suggests that such abilities are consistent with selective pressure for underwater foraging during human evolution, and discussed other anatomical traits speculated as diving adaptations by Hardy/Morgan. John Langdon suggested that such traits could be enabled by a human developmental plasticity.\n\nA 2016 research programme conducted by Tom Brenna (then at Cornell University), with the help of Judy St Leger at San Diego Seaworld, compared the chemistry of vernix on human neonates and samples of a vernix-like substance on California Sealion pups. They established that its molecular composition is comparable to human vernix, being rich in both branch chain fatty acids (BCFAs) and squalene.\n\n"}
{"id": "848053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=848053", "title": "Arinna", "text": "Arinna\n\nArinna was the major cult center of the Hittite sun goddess, (thought to be Arinniti) known as UTU \"Arinna\" \"sun goddess of Arinna\". Arinna was located near Hattusa, the Hittite capital.The name was also used as a substitute name for Arinniti.\n\nThe sun goddess of Arinna is the most important one of three important solar deities of the Hittite pantheon, besides UTU \"nepisas\" - \"the sun of the sky\" and UTU \"taknas\" - \"the sun of the earth\".\n\nShe was considered to be the chief deity in some source, in place of her husband. Her consort was the weather god, Teshub; they and their children were all derived from the former Hattic pantheon.\n\nThe goddess was also perceived to be a paramount chthonic or earth goddess. She becomes largely syncretised with the Hurrian goddess Hebat.\n\nIn the late 14th century BC, King Mursili II was particularly devoted to the sun goddess of Arinna.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "437251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=437251", "title": "Canadian Prairies", "text": "Canadian Prairies\n\nThe Canadian Prairies is a region in Western Canada, which may correspond to several different definitions, natural or political. The region comprises the Canadian portion of the Great Plains, and notably, the Prairie provinces or simply the Prairies comprise the provinces of Alberta, Saskatchewan, and Manitoba, as they are partially covered by prairie (grasslands), mostly in the southern regions of each province. In a more restricted sense, the term may also refer only to the areas of those provinces covered by prairie; their portions of the physiographic region known as the Interior Plains. Prairie also covers portions of northeastern British Columbia, though that province is typically not included in the region in a political sense.\n\nThe \"prairies\" in Canada are a temperate grasslands and shrublands biome, within the prairie ecoregion of Canada and consists of Northern mixed grasslands in Alberta, Saskatchewan, and southern Manitoba. Northern short grasslands in southeastern Alberta and southwestern Saskatchewan. Northern tall grasslands in southern Manitoba, and Aspen parkland, which covers central Alberta, central Saskatchewan, and southern Manitoba. The Prairie starts from north of Edmonton, it covers the three provinces in a southward-slanting line east to the Manitoba-Minnesota border. Alberta has the most land classified as Prairie, while Manitoba has the least, as the Boreal Forest begins at a lower latitude in Manitoba than in Alberta.\n\nAccording to the Köppen climate classification the Canadian prairies generally experience dry semi-arid climates (Köppen \"Bsk\") in the brown soil regions, and somewhat dry Humid Continental climates (Köppen \"Dfb\") in the outer dark brown and black soil areas. The Canadian prairies typically experience about of annual precipitation in the semi-arid areas while they experience in the continental regions. The area is also prone to thunderstorms in the spring and summer. Some of these storms, especially further south, are strong enough for tornadoes.\n\nAlthough the Prairie Provinces region is named for the prairies located within Alberta, Saskatchewan and Manitoba, the physical geography of the three provinces is quite diverse, consisting of portions of the Canadian Shield, the Western Cordillera and the Canadian Interior Plains. The plains comprise both prairies and forests while, with the exception of Arctic tundra along the Hudson Bay, the shield is predominantly forested.\n\nThree main grassland types occur in the Canadian prairies: tallgrass prairie, mixed grass prairie, and fescue prairie (or using the WWF terminology, northern tall grasslands, northern mixed grasslands, and northern short grasslands). Each has a unique geographic distribution and characteristic mix of plant species. All but a fraction of one percent of the tallgrass prairie has been converted to cropland. What remains occurs on the plain centred in the Red River Valley in Manitoba. Mixed prairie is more common and is part of the dry interior plains that extend from Canada south to the U.S. state of Texas. More than half of the remaining native grassland in the Canadian prairies is mixed. Though widespread in southern Saskatchewan and southeastern Alberta, because of extensive cattle grazing, it is estimated that only 24% of the original mixed prairie grassland remains. Fescue prairie occurs in the moister regions, occupying the northern extent of the prairies in central and southwestern Alberta and west-central Saskatchewan.\n\nThe southwestern Canadian prairies, supporting brown and black soil types, are semi-arid and highly prone to frequent and severe droughts. The zones around the cities of Regina and immediately east of Calgary are also very dry. Most heavy precipitation quickly dissipates by the time it passes Cheadle on its way heading east. In an average year, southern Saskatchewan receives between of precipitation, with the majority falling between April and June. Frost from October to April (and sometimes even early May) limits the growing season for certain crops.\n\nThe eastern section of the Canadian prairies in Manitoba is well watered with several large lakes such as Lake Winnipeg and several large rivers. The area also gets reasonable amounts of precipitation. The middle sections of Alberta and Saskatchewan are also wetter than the south and have better farmland, despite having a shorter frost-free season. The areas around Edmonton and Saskatoon are especially notable as good farmland. Both lie in the northern area of the Palliser's Triangle, and are within aspen parkland a transitional prairie ecozone.\n\nFurther north, the area becomes too cold for most agriculture besides wild rice operations and sheep raising, and it is dominated by boreal forest. The Peace Region in northwestern Alberta is an exception, however. It lies north of the 55th Parallel and is warm and dry enough to support extensive farming. Aspen parkland covers the area; The long daylight hours in this region during the summer are an asset despite having an even shorter growing season than central Alberta. In fact, agriculture plays a major economic role in the Peace Region.\n\nIn the Canada 2011 Census, the Canadian prairie provinces had a population of 5,886,906, consisting of 3,645,257 in Alberta, 1,208,268 in Manitoba, and 1,033,381 in Saskatchewan, up 8.9% from 5,406,908 in 2006. The three provinces have a combined area of , consisting of in Alberta, in Manitoba, and in Saskatchewan.\n\nSome of the prairie region of Canada has seen rapid growth from a boom in oil production since the mid-20th century. \nAccording to StatsCanada, the prairie provinces had a population of 5,886,906 in 2011. In 2016, the population had grown by 14.6% to 6,748,280.\n\nPrimary industries include agriculture (wheat, barley, canola, brassica, oats), and cattle and sheep ranching. Also, natural resources such as oil sands (Fort McMurray, Alberta) and other forms of oil production can be found on the plains. Secondary industries consist of the refinement of oils and agriculture processing.\n\nThe Prairies are distinguished from the rest of Canada by cultural and political traits. The oldest influence on Prairie culture are the First Nations, who have lived in the area for millennia. The first Europeans to see the Prairies were fur traders and explorers from eastern Canada (mainly present-day Quebec) and Great Britain via Hudson Bay. They gave rise to the Métis, working class \"children of the fur trade.\" Not until the Canadian Pacific Railway was built did widespread agricultural settlement occur. During their settlement, the prairies were settled in distinct ethnic block settlements giving certain areas distinctively Ukrainian, German, French, or Scandinavian Canadian cultures.\n\nSome areas also developed cultures around their main economic activity. For example, southern Alberta is renowned for its cowboy culture, which developed when real open range ranching was practised in the 1880s. Canada's first rodeo, the Raymond Stampede, was established in 1902. These influences are also evident in the music of Canada's Prairie Provinces. This can be attributed partially to the massive influx of American settlers who began to migrate to Alberta (and to a lesser extent, Saskatchewan) in the late 1880s because of the lack of available land in the United States.\n\nThe Prairie Provinces have given rise to the \"prairie protest\" movements, such as the Winnipeg General Strike of 1919, the first general strike in Canadian history. These political movements (both of the left and right) tend to feed off of well established feelings of Western alienation, and each one represents a distinct challenge to the perceived Central Canadian elite.\n\nThe Prairies continue to have a wide range of political representation. While the Conservative Party of Canada has widespread support throughout the region, the New Democratic Party holds seats at the provincial level in all three provinces, forming the government in one, as well as holding seats at the federal level in all three provinces. The Liberal Party of Canada presently holds federal seats in urban areas of Alberta, Saskatchewan and Manitoba, while the Alberta Liberal Party holds a provincial seat in Alberta and the Manitoba Liberal Party holds a seat in Manitoba.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10016180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10016180", "title": "Central Deccan Plateau Dry Deciduous Forests", "text": "Central Deccan Plateau Dry Deciduous Forests\n\nThe Central Deccan Plateau dry deciduous forests southern India, containing large protected areas of natural habitat of the tiger.\nThe Deccan Plateau is a large triangular plateau in southern India, bounded by the Western Ghats range to the west, the Eastern Ghats to the east, and the western Satpura Range to the north. The Central Deccan Plateau dry deciduous forests occupy an area of , in which the dominant natural habitat is or was woodland of \"Hardwickia binata\" and \"Albizia amara\" trees, located on the central and southern portion of the plateau. The ecoregion lies mostly within the states of Maharashtra and Telangana, extending into adjacent parts of Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, and Andhra Pradesh. In Maharashtra, the Central Deccan Plateau dry deciduous forests cover most of the Vidarbha region, including the city of Nagpur. In Telangana, the dry deciduous forests cover much of the state, including Hyderabad, the state capital, with a small portion extending across the Eastern Ghats to the Bay of Bengal in Krishna District of Andhra Pradesh.\n\nThe xeric Deccan thorn scrub forests lie to the west, south, and southeast, covering the drier portions of the plateau in the rain shadow of the Western Ghats. The more humid Eastern Highlands moist deciduous forests lie to the northeast and east, while the Narmada Valley dry deciduous forests lie across the Satpuras to the northwest.\n\nThe Godavari River crosses the ecoregion from its source in the Western Ghats and indeed most of the rivers on the plateau drain east towards the Bay of Bengal, with the exception of the Tapti River in the northwestern corner of the plateau, which drains westward into the Arabian Sea.\n\nThis is a highly populated area and most of the natural forest in the ecoregion has been cleared for firewood or grazing land or as a result of river damming, all of which are ongoing. However large blocks of original habitat such as the Nagarjunsagar-Srisailam Tiger Reserve in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh do remain.\n\nWoodlands of \"Hardwickia binata\" and \"Albizia amara\" are the characteristic plant community of this ecoregion, distinguishing it from the predominantly teak (\"Tectona grandis\") or sal (\"Shorea robusta\") woodlands found elsewhere in the Deccan. The Central Deccan forests have an upper canopy at 15-25 meters, and an understory at 10-15 meters, with little undergrowth. The \"Hardwickia\" trees lose their leaves during the winter dry season, and leaf out again in April. Other tree species in the northern part of the ecoregion include teak, \"Boswellia serrata, Lannea coromandelica, Anogeissus latifolia, Albizia lebbeck, Lagerstroemia parvifolia, Diospyros tomentosa,\" and \"Acacia catechu\". \n\nThe large areas of remaining forest on the plateau are still home to a variety of grazing animals from the four-horned antelope (\"Tetracerus quadricornis\"), chinkara (\"Gazella bennettii\"), and blackbuck (\"Antilope cervicapra\") to the large gaur and wild water buffalo (\"Bubalus arnee\"). Large carnivores include tigers (\"Panthera tigris\"), the dhole (wild dog, \"Cuon alpinus\"), and sloth bear (\"Melursus ursinus\"). The area is home to nearly ninety mammal species. Some of the larger species mentioned here are rare, as is the threatened Indian giant squirrel (\"Ratufa indica\"). The 300 species of birds include the globally threatened Jerdon's courser (\"Rhinoptilus bitorquatus\"), which was rediscovered in 1986 having been thought extinct for nearly a hundred years.\n\nAbout 80 percent of the natural habitat in the ecoregion has been lost. Several blocks of habitat larger than 5,000 km remain. Fifteen protected areas cover almost 3% of the ecoregion's area, with Nagarjunsagar-Srisailam Tiger Reserve as the largest.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32398171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32398171", "title": "Cirrus vertebratus", "text": "Cirrus vertebratus\n\nCirrus vertebratus is a type of cirrus cloud. The name \"cirrus vertebratus\" is derived from Latin, meaning \"jointed, articulated, vertebrated\". Like cirrus intortus, the vertebratus species is exclusive to the cirrus genus. Cirrus vertebratus gives the impression of vertebrae in a spinal column, ribs, or a fish skeleton.\n\nThe species is an unusual form of cirrus clouds and is formed by air moving parallel to the main cloud line. The gaps in the cloud occur where air is descending, while the \"ribs\" of the cloud correspond with areas of uplift. Their occurrence appears to be connected with the location of the jet stream.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7458393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7458393", "title": "Columbia River Basalt Group", "text": "Columbia River Basalt Group\n\nThe Columbia River Basalt Group is a large igneous province that lies across parts of the Western United States. It is found in the U.S. states of Washington, Oregon, Idaho, Nevada, and California. The Basalt group includes the Steen and Picture Gorge basalt formations.\n\nDuring the middle to late Miocene epoch, the Columbia River flood basalts engulfed about of the Pacific Northwest, forming a large igneous province with an estimated volume of . Eruptions were most vigorous 17–14 million years ago, when over 99 percent of the basalt was released. Less extensive eruptions continued 14–6 million years ago.\n\nErosion resulting from the Missoula Floods has extensively exposed these lava flows, laying bare many layers of the basalt flows at Wallula Gap, the lower Palouse River, the Columbia River Gorge and throughout the Channeled Scablands.\n\nThe Columbia River Basalt Group is thought to be a potential link to the Chilcotin Group in south-central British Columbia, Canada. The Latah Formation sediments of Washington and Idaho are interbedded with a number of the Columbia River Basalt Group flows, and outcrop across the region.\n\nAbsolute dates, subject to a statistical uncertainty, are determined through radiometric dating using isotope ratios such as Ar/Ar dating, which can be used to identify the date of solidifying basalt. In the CRBG deposits Ar, which is produced by K decay, only accumulates after the melt solidifies.\n\nOther flood basalts include Deccan Traps (late Cretaceous period) that cover an area of 500,000 km (193,051 sq mi) in west-central India and Siberian Traps (late Permian) that cover (800,000 sq mi) in Russia.\n\nSome time during a 10–15 million-year period, lava flow after lava flow poured out, eventually reaching a thickness of more than . As the molten rock came to the surface, the Earth's crust gradually sank into the space left by the rising lava. This subsidence of the crust produced a large, slightly depressed lava plain now known as the Columbia Basin or Columbia River Plateau. The northwesterly advancing lava forced the ancient Columbia River into its present course. The lava, as it flowed over the area, first filled the stream valleys, forming dams that in turn caused impoundments or lakes. In these ancient lake beds are found fossil leaf impressions, petrified wood, fossil insects, and bones of vertebrate animals.\n\nIn the middle Miocene, 17 to 15 Ma, the Columbia Plateau and the Oregon Basin and Range of the Pacific Northwest were flooded with lava flows. Both flows are similar in both composition and age, and have been attributed to a common source, the Yellowstone hotspot. The ultimate cause of the volcanism is still up for debate, but the most widely accepted idea is that the mantle plume or upwelling (similar to that associated with present-day Hawaii) initiated the widespread and voluminous basaltic volcanism about 17 million years ago. As hot mantle plume materials rise and reach lower pressures, the hot materials melt and interact with the materials in the upper mantle, creating magma. Once that magma breaches the surface, it flows as lava and then solidifies into basalt.\n\nPrior to 17.5 million years ago, the Western Cascade Stratovolcanoes erupted with periodic regularity for over 20 million years, even as they do today. An abrupt transition to shield volcanic flooding took place in the mid-Miocene. The flows can be divided into four major categories: The Steens Basalt, Grande Ronde Basalt, the Wanapum Basalt, and the Saddle Mountains Basalt. The various lava flows have been dated by radiometric dating—particularly through measurement of the ratios of isotopes of potassium to argon. The Columbia River flood basalt province comprises more than 300 individual basalt lava flows that have an average volume of .\n\nMajor hot-spots have often been tracked back to flood-basalt events. In this case the Yellowstone hotspot's initial flood-basalt event occurred near Steens Mountain when the Imnaha and Steens eruptions began. As the North American Plate moved several centimeters per year westward, the eruptions progressed through the Snake River Plain across Idaho and into Wyoming. Consistent with the hot spot hypothesis, the lava flows are progressively younger as one proceeds east along this path.\n\nThere is additional confirmation that Yellowstone is associated with a deep hot spot. Using tomographic images based on seismic waves, relatively narrow, deeply seated, active convective plumes have been detected under Yellowstone and several other hot spots. These plumes are much more focused than the upwelling observed with large-scale plate-tectonics circulation.\nThe hot spot hypothesis is not universally accepted as it has not resolved several questions. The Yellowstone hot spot volcanism track shows a large apparent bow in the hot-spot track that does not correspond to changes in plate motion if the northern CRBG floods are considered. Further, the Yellowstone images show necking of the plume at and , which may correspond to phase changes or may reflect still-to-be-understood viscosity effects. Additional data collection and further modeling will be required to achieve a consensus on the actual mechanism.\n\nThe Columbia River Basalt Group flows exhibit essentially uniform chemical properties through the bulk of individual flows, suggesting rapid placement. Ho and Cashman (1997) characterized the -long Ginkgo flow of the Columbia River Basalt Group, determining that it had been formed in roughly a week, based on the measured melting temperature along the flow from the origin to the most distant point of the flow, combined with hydraulics considerations. The Ginkgo basalt was examined over its flow path from a Ginkgo flow feeder dike near Kahlotus, Washington to the flow terminus in the Pacific Ocean at Yaquina Head, Oregon. The basalt had an upper melting temperature of 1095 ± 5 °C and a lower temperature to 1085 ± 5 °C; this indicates that the maximum temperature drop along the Ginkgo flow was 20 °C. The lava must have spread quickly to achieve this uniformity. Analyses indicate that the flow must remain laminar, as turbulent flow would cool more quickly. This could be accomplished by sheet flow, which can travel at velocities of without turbulence and minimal cooling, suggesting that the Ginkgo flow occurred in less than a week. The cooling/hydraulics analyses are supported by an independent indicator; if longer periods were required, external water from temporarily dammed rivers would intrude, resulting in both more dramatic cooling rates and increased volumes of pillow lava. Ho's analysis is consistent with the analysis by Reidel et al. (1994), who proposed a maximum Pomona flow emplacement duration of several months based on the time required for rivers to be reestablished in their canyons following a basalt flow interruption.\n\nThree major tools are used to date the CRBG flows: stratigraphy, radiometric dating, and magnetostratigraphy. These techniques have been key to correlating data from disparate basalt exposures and boring samples over five states.\n\nMajor eruptive pulses of flood basalt lavas are laid down stratigraphically. The layers can be distinguished by physical characteristics and chemical composition. Each distinct layer is typically assigned a name usually based on area (valley, mountain, or region) where that formation is exposed and available for study. Stratigraphy provides a relative ordering (ordinal ranking) of the CRBG layers.\n\nAbsolute dates, subject to a statistical uncertainty, are determined through radiometric dating using isotope ratios such as Ar/Ar dating, which can be used to identify the date of solidifying basalt. In the CRBG deposits Ar, which is produced by K decay, only accumulates after the melt solidifies.\nMagnetostratigraphy is also used to determine age. This technique uses the pattern of magnetic polarity zones of CRBG layers by comparison to the magnetic polarity timescale. The samples are analyzed to determine their characteristic remanent magnetization from the Earth's magnetic field at the time a stratum was deposited. This is possible as magnetic minerals precipitate in the melt (crystallize), they orient themselves with Earth's magnetic field.\n\nThe Steens Basalt captured a highly detailed record of the earth's magnetic reversal that occurred roughly 15 million years ago. Over a 10,000-year period, more than 130 flows solidified – roughly one flow every 75 years. As each flow cooled below about , it captured the magnetic field's orientation-normal, reversed, or in one of several intermediate positions. Most of the flows froze with a single magnetic orientation. However, several of the flows, which freeze from both the upper and lower surfaces, progressively toward the center, captured substantial variations in magnetic field direction as they froze. The observed change in direction was reported as 50⁰ over 15 days.\n\nThe Steens Basalt flows covered about of the Oregon Plateau in sections up to thick. It contains the earliest identified eruption of the CRBG large igneous province. The type locality for the Steens basalt, which covers a large portion of the Oregon Plateau, is an approximately face of Steens Mountain showing multiple layers of basalt. The oldest of the flows considered part of the Columbia River Basalt Group, the Steens basalt, includes flows geographically separated but roughly concurrent with the Imnaha flows. Older Imnaha basalt north of Steens Mountain overlies the chemically distinct lowermost flows of Steens basalt; hence some flows of the Imnaha are stratigraphically younger than the lowermost Steens basalt.\n\nOne geomagnetic field reversal occurred during the Steens Basalt eruptions at approximately 16.7 Ma, as dated using Ar/Ar ages and the geomagnetic polarity timescale. Steens Mountain and related sections of Oregon Plateau flood basalts at Catlow Peak and Poker Jim Ridge to the southeast and west of Steens Mountain, provide the most detailed magnetic field reversal data (reversed-to-normal polarity transition) yet reported in volcanic rocks.\n\nVirtually coeval with oldest of the flows, the Imnaha basalt flows welled up across northeastern Oregon. There were 26 major flows over the period, one roughly every 15,000 years. Although estimates are that this amounts to about 10% of the total flows, they have been buried under more recent flows, and are visible in few locations. They can be seen along the lower benches of the Imnaha River and Snake River in Wallowa county.\n\nThe Imnaha lavas have been dated using the K–Ar technique, and show a broad range of dates. The oldest is 17.67±0.32 Ma with younger lava flows ranging to 15.50±0.40 Ma. Although the Imnaha Basalt overlies Lower Steens Basalt, it has been suggested that it is interfingered with Upper Steens Basalt.\n\nThe next oldest of the flows, from 17 million to 15.6 million years ago, make up the Grande Ronde Basalt. Units (flow zones) within the Grande Ronde Basalt include the Meyer Ridge and the Sentinel Bluffs units. Geologists estimate that the Grande Ronde Basalt comprises about 85 percent of the total flow volume. It is characterized by a number of dikes called the Chief Joseph Dike Swarm near Joseph, Enterprise, Troy and Walla Walla through which the lava upwelling occurred (estimates range to up to 20,000 such dikes). Many of the dikes were fissures wide and up to in length, allowing for huge quantities of magma upwelling. Much of the lava flowed north into Washington as well as down the Columbia River channel to the Pacific Ocean; the tremendous flows created the Columbia River Plateau. The weight of this flow caused central Washington to sink, creating the broad Columbia Basin in Washington. The type locality for the formation is the canyon of the Grande Ronde River. Grande Ronde basalt flows and dikes can also be seen in the exposed walls of Joseph Canyon along Oregon Route 3.\n\nThe Grande Ronde basalt flows flooded down the ancestral Columbia River channel to the west of the Cascade Mountains. It can be found exposed along the Clackamas River and at Silver Falls State Park where the falls plunge over multiple layers of the Grande Ronde basalt. Evidence of eight flows can be found in the Tualatin Mountains on the west side of Portland.\n\nIndividual flows included large quantities of basalt. The McCoy Canyon flow of the Sentinel Bluffs Member released of basalt in layers of in thickness. The Umtanum flow has been estimated at about in layers deep. The Pruitt Draw flow of the Teepee Butte Member released about with layers of basalt up to thick.\n\nThe Wanapum Basalt is made up of the Eckler Mountain Member (15.6 million years ago), the Frenchman Springs Member (15.5 million years ago), the Roza Member (14.9 million years ago) and the Priest Rapids Member (14.5 million years ago). They originated from vents between Pendleton, Oregon and Hanford, Washington.\n\nThe Frenchman Springs Member flowed along similar paths as the Grande Ronde basalts, but can be identified by different chemical characteristics. It flowed west to the Pacific, and can be found in the Columbia Gorge, along the upper Clackamas River, the hills south of Oregon City. and as far west as Yaquina Head near Newport, Oregon—a distance of .\n\nThe Saddle Mountains Basalt, seen prominently at the Saddle Mountains, is made up of the Umatilla Member flows, the Wilbur Creek Member flows, the Asotin Member flows (13 million years ago), the Weissenfels Ridge Member flows, the Esquatzel Member flows, the Elephant Mountain Member flows (10.5 million years ago), the Bujford Member flows, the Ice Harbor Member flows (8.5 million years ago) and the Lower Monumental Member flows (6 million years ago).\n\n observed that the Oregon High Lava Plains is a complementary system of propagating rhyolite eruptions, with the same point of origin. The two phenomena occurred concurrently, with the High Lava Plains propagating westward since ~10 Ma, while the Snake River Plains propagated eastward.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "934206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=934206", "title": "Common eland", "text": "Common eland\n\nThe common eland (\"Taurotragus oryx\"), also known as the southern eland or eland antelope, is a savannah and plains antelope found in East and Southern Africa. It is a species of the family Bovidae and genus \"Taurotragus\". It was first described by Peter Simon Pallas in 1766. An adult male is around 1.6 metres (5') tall at the shoulder (females are 20 centimetres (8\") shorter) and can weigh up to with an average of , for females). It is the second largest antelope in the world, being slightly smaller on average than the giant eland.\n\nMainly a herbivore, its diet is primarily grasses and leaves. Common elands form herds of up to 500 animals, but are not territorial. The common eland prefers habitats with a wide variety of flowering plants such as savannah, woodlands, and open and montane grasslands; it avoids dense forests. It uses loud barks, visual and postural movements and the flehmen response to communicate and warn others of danger. The common eland is used by humans for leather, meat, and rich, nutritious milk, and has been domesticated in many areas.\n\nIt is native to Angola, Botswana, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ethiopia, Kenya, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, Rwanda, South Africa, South Sudan, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe but is no longer present in Burundi. While the common eland's population is decreasing, it is classified as \"Least Concern\" by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN).\n\nThe scientific name of the common eland is \"Taurotragus oryx\", composed of three words: \"tauros\", \"tragos\" and \"oryx\". \"Tauros\" is Greek for a bull or bullock, meaning the same as the Latin \"taurus\". \"Tragos\" is Greek for a male goat, referring to the tuft of hair that grows in the eland's ear and its resemblance to a goat's beard. \"Oryx\" is Latin and Greek (generally \"orygos\") for pickaxe, referring to the pointed horns of North African antelopes like the common eland and scimitar-horned oryx.\n\nThe name 'eland' is Dutch for \"elk\" or \"moose\". It has a Baltic source similar to the Lithuanian \"élnis\", which means \"deer\". It was borrowed earlier as \"ellan\" (French) in the 1610s or \"Elend\" (German). When Dutch settlers came to the Cape Province, they named it after the large, herbivorous moose. In Dutch the animal is called \"Eland antelope\" to distinguish it from the moose, which is found in the northern boreal forests.\n\nCommon elands are spiral-horned antelopes. They are sexually dimorphic, with females being smaller than the males. Females weigh , measure from the snout to the base of the tail and stand at the shoulder. Bulls weigh , are from the snout to the base of the tail and stand at the shoulder. The tail is long. Male elands can weigh up to .\n\nTheir coat differs geographically, with elands in north Africa having distinctive markings (torso stripes, markings on legs, dark garters and a spinal crest) that are absent in the south. Apart from a rough mane, the coat is smooth. Females have a tan coat, while the coats of males are darker, with a bluish-grey tinge. Bulls may also have a series of vertical white stripes on their sides (mainly in parts of the Karoo in South Africa). As males age, their coat becomes more grey. Males also have dense fur on their foreheads and a large dewlap on their throats.\n\nBoth sexes have horns with a steady spiral ridge (resembling that of the bushbuck). The horns are visible as small buds in newborns and grow rapidly during the first seven months. The horns of males are thicker and shorter than those of females (males' horns are long and females' are long), and have a tighter spiral. Males use their horns during rutting season to wrestle and butt heads with rivals, while females use their horns to protect their young from predators.\n\nThe common eland is the slowest antelope, with a peak speed of per hour that tires them quickly. However, they can maintain a per hour trot indefinitely. Elands are capable of jumping up to from a standing start when startled (up to for young elands). The common eland's life expectancy is generally between 15 and 20 years; in captivity some live up to 25 years.\n\nEland herds are accompanied by a loud clicking sound that has been subject to considerable speculation. It is believed that the weight of the animal causes the two halves of its hooves to splay apart, and the clicking is the result of the hoof snapping together when the animal raises its leg. The sound carries some distance from a herd, and may be a form of communication.\n\nThe common eland was first described in 1766 by the German zoologist and botanist Peter Simon Pallas. It belongs to the order Artiodactyla, family Bovidae and subfamily Bovinae. Common elands are sometimes considered part of the genus \"Tragelaphus\" on the basis of molecular phylogenetics, but are usually categorized as \"Taurotragus\", along with the giant eland (\"T. derbianus\").\n\nThree subspecies of common eland have been recognized, though their validity has been in dispute.\n\nMale elands have 31 diploid chromosomes and females have 32. The male (Y) chromosome has been translocated to the short arm of an autosome. Both the X and Y replicate late; they do not match well and are variable. The chromosomes resemble those of the greater kudu (\"Tragelaphus strepsiceros\").\n\nMale elands and female greater kudus can produce a viable male hybrid, though it is not known if it is sterile. An accidental crossing of an east African common eland (\"T. o. pattersonianus\"') with an east African kudu (\"T. s. bea\") occurred in the San Diego Zoo Safari Park. This was believed to be due to the absence of male kudus in the herd. The hybrid produced was sterile, which was unexpected before the study. The study conformed the chromosome numbers of both the eland and the kudu and the strangeness of their attached Y chromosomes. Reports state that repeated matings of male elands with domestic (\"Bos primigenius\") and zebu cows (\"Bos indicus\") have also produced sterile hybrids. Female elands can also act as surrogates for bongos.\n\nThe Bovidae family ancestors of the common eland evolved approximately 20 million years ago in Africa; fossils are found throughout Africa and France but the best record appears in sub-Saharan Africa. The first members of the tribe \"Tragelaphini\" appear 6 million years in the past during the late Miocene. An extinct ancestor of the common eland (\"Taurotragus arkelli\") appears in the Pleistocene in northern Tanzania and the first \"T. oryx\" fossil appears in the Holocene in Algeria.\n\nIn 2010, a genetic study was made basing on the evolutionary history of common elands. Located in the sub-Saharan savanna biome of east and southern Africa, the study used methods like analysis of mitochondrial DNA control-region fragments from 122 individuals to learn more about various topics, such as the phylogeography, genetic diversity, demographic history of the species. The conclusions strongly supported the presence of a longer-standing population in the south and a mosaic of Pleistocene refugia in the east. It is believed that today their extinction from these parts could be due to colonization. The similarity of dates obtained from more studies indicates a significant event c. 200 ka, which had brought a great change in the genetic history of the species.\n\nCommon elands live on the open plains of southern Africa and along the foothills of the great southern African plateau. The species extends north into Ethiopia and most arid zones of South Sudan, west into eastern Angola and Namibia, and south to South Africa. However, there is a low density of elands in Africa due to poaching and human settlement.\n\nElands prefer to live in semi-arid areas that contain many shrub-like bushes, and often inhabit grasslands, woodlands, sub-desert, bush, and mountaintops with altitudes of about . Elands do, however, avoid forests, swamps and deserts. The places inhabited by elands generally contain \"Acacia\", \"Combretum\", \"Commiphora\", \"Diospyros\", \"Grewia\", \"Rhus\" and \"Ziziphus\" trees and shrubs; some of these also serve as their food.\n\nEland can be found in many National Parks and reserves today, including Nairobi and Tsavo East National Park, Tsavo West National Park, Masai Mara NR, Kenya; Serengeti, Ruaha and Tarangire National Park, Ngorongoro Crater, Tanzania; Kagera National Park, Rwanda; Nyika National Park, Malawi; Luangwa Valley and Kafue National Park, Zambia; Hwange National Park, Matobo National Park, Tuli Safari Area and Chimanimani Eland Sanctuary, Zimbabwe; Kruger National Park, Kgalagadi Transfrontier Park, Giant's Castle and Suikerbosrand NR, South Africa.\n\nThey live on home ranges that can be 200–400 km for females and juveniles and 50 km for males.\n\nCommon elands are nomadic and crepuscular. They eat in the morning and evening, rest in shade when hot and remain in sunlight when cold. They are commonly found in herds of up to 500, with individual members remaining in the herd anywhere from several hours to several months. Juveniles and mothers tend to form larger herds, while males may separate into smaller groups or wander individually. During estrus, mainly in the rainy season, groups tend to form more regularly. In southern Africa common elands will often associate with herds of zebras, roan antelopes and oryxes.\n\nCommon elands communicate via gestures, vocalizations, scent cues and display behaviors. The flehmen response also occurs, primarily in males in response to contact with female urine or genitals. Females will urinate to indicate fertility during the appropriate phase of their estrous cycle, as well as to indicate their lack of fertility when harassed by males. If eland bulls find any of their predators nearby, they will bark and attempt to attract the attention of others by trotting back and forth until the entire herd is conscious of the danger. Some of their main predators include lions, African wild dogs, cheetahs and spotted hyenas. Juvenile elands are more vulnerable than adults to their predators.\n\nCommon elands are herbivores that browse during drier winter months but have also adapted to grazing during the rainy season when grasses are more common. They require a high-protein diet of succulent leaves from flowering plants but will consume lower quality plant material if available including forbs, trees, shrubs, grasses, seeds and tubers. The eland can conserve water by increasing its body temperature. Grasses the eland eats include \"Setaria\" and \"Themeda\" and fruits from \"Securinega\" and \"Strychnos\". Large antelope can survive on lower quality food in times of little rain. Elands feed during the night in hot weather and sleep for long periods during the day.\n\nMost of their water is obtained from their food, though they will drink water when available. As they quickly adjust to the surroundings due to seasonal changes and other causes, they also change their feeding habits. They also use their horns to break off branches that are hard to reach.\n\nFemales are sexually mature at 15–36 months and males at 4–5 years. Mating may occur anytime after reaching sexual maturity, but is mostly seen in the rainy season. In Zambia, young are born in July and August, while elsewhere it is the mating season. Mating begins when elands gather to feed on lush green plains with plentiful grass, and some males and females start mating with each other in separate pairs. Males chase the females to find out if they are in estrus. They also test the female's urine. Usually, a female chooses the most dominant and fit male to mate with. Sometimes she runs away from males trying to mate, causing more attraction. This results in fights between males, in which their hard horns are used. It is 2–4 hours before a female allows a male to mount. Males usually keep close contact with females in the mating period. The dominant male can mate with more than one female. Females have a gestation period of 9 months, and give birth to only one calf each time.\n\nMales, females and juveniles each form separate social groups. The male groups are the smallest; the members stay together and search for food or water sources. The female group is much larger and covers greater areas. They travel the grassy plains in wet periods and prefer bushy areas in dry periods. Females have a complex linear hierarchy. The nursery and juvenile group is naturally formed when females give birth to calves. After about 24 hours of the delivery, the mother and calf join this group. The calves start befriending each other and stay back in the nursery group while the mother returns to the female group. The calves leave the nursery group when they are at least two years old and join a male or female group.\n\nCommon elands are resistant to trypanosomiasis, a protozoan infection that has the tsetse fly as a vector, but not to the \"Rhipicephalus\"-transmitted disease theileriosis. The disease-causing bacteria \"Theileria taurotragi\" has caused many eland deaths. \"Clostridium chauvoei\", another bacterium, can be harmful as well. Eland are also hosts to several kinds of ticks. In one study an eland was found to be host to the \"Amblyomma\" species \"A. gemma\" and \"A. variegatum\", and \"Rhipicephalus\" species \"R. decoloratus\", \"R. appendiculatus\", \"R. evertsi\", \"R. pulchellus\" and \"R. pravus\". Elands produce antibodies for Brucella bacteria, but none for \"Mycobacterium paratuberculosis\" or various types of pneumonia like contagious bovine pneumonia and contagious caprine pneumonia, normally infectious in cows or antelopes.\n\nCurrently, common elands are not endangered. They are conserved by the United States Endangered Species Act, and regulated in international trade by the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species. Using ground counts and aerial surveys, the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) calculates the population density of the common eland to be between 0.05 and 1 per square kilometre with a total population estimate of 136,000. Populations are considered stable or increasing in the countries of Namibia, Botswana, Zimbabwe, South Africa, Malawi and possibly Tanzania.\n\nThe population is, however, gradually decreasing due to habitat loss, caused by expanding human settlements and poaching for its superior meat. As they are docile and inactive most of the time, they can easily be killed. The species became extinct in Swaziland and Zimbabwe, but has been reintroduced.\n\nThe IUCN states that about half of the estimated total population lives in protected areas and 30% on private land. Protected areas that support major populations include Omo (Ethiopia), Serengeti, Katavi, Ruaha and Selous-Kilombero (Tanzania), Kafue and North Luangwa (Zambia), Nyika (Malawi), Etosha (Namibia), Kgalagadi Transfrontier Park (Botswana/South Africa) and Ukhahlamba Drakensberg Park (South Africa). Most of these populations appear to be stable. Relatively large numbers of common eland now live on private land, particularly in Namibia, Zimbabwe and South Africa, reflecting its value as a trophy animal. Common elands have also been widely domesticated in Zimbabwe, South Africa and Kenya, as well as in Russia and Ukraine.\n\nThe common eland is sometimes farmed and hunted for its meat, and in some cases can be better used than cattle because it is more suited to African climates. This has led to some Southern African farmers switching from cattle to eland. Common elands are also pictured as supporters in the coat of arms of Grootfontein, Namibia.\n\nCommon elands have a mild temperament and have been successfully domesticated for meat and milk production in South Africa and Russia. Their need for water is quite low because they produce urine with a high-urea content, but they require a substantial grazing area, along with salt licks and large amounts of supplementary foods like maize, sorghum, melons and beans which can be expensive. A female can produce up to of milk per day that is richer in milkfat than cow milk. The pleasant-tasting milk has a butterfat content of 11-17% and can be stored for up to eight months if properly prepared, versus several days for cow milk.\n\nHousing common elands is difficult due to their ability to jump over fences as high as or simply break through using their substantial mass. Sometimes, wild eland will break through enclosures to mix with domesticated ones. Common elands can reproduce in captivity, but calf survival is low and the young may need to be separated from their mothers to ensure health and adequate feeding. Husbandry requires care because the generally placid animals startle easily and require large amounts of space.\n\n"}
{"id": "24169775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24169775", "title": "Degradation (geology)", "text": "Degradation (geology)\n\nIn geology, degradation refers to the lowering of a fluvial surface, such as a stream bed or floodplain, through erosional processes. Degradation is the opposite of aggradation. Degradation is characteristic of channel networks in which either bedrock erosion is taking place, or in systems that are sediment-starved and are therefore entraining more material than they are depositing. When a stream degrades, it leaves behind a fluvial terrace. This can be further classified as a strath terrace—a bedrock terrace that may have a thin mantle of alluvium—if the river is incising through bedrock. These terraces may be dated with methods such as cosmogenic radionuclide dating, OSL dating, and paleomagnetic dating (using reversals in the Earth's magnetic field to constrain the timing of events) to find when a river was at a particular level and how quickly it is downcutting.\n\n"}
{"id": "578251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=578251", "title": "Dione (Titaness)", "text": "Dione (Titaness)\n\nDione (; , \"Diōnē\") was an ancient Greek goddess, an oracular Titaness primarily known from Book V of Homer's \"Iliad\", where she tends to the wounds suffered by her daughter Aphrodite. One source describes her as an ancient wife of Zeus.\n\nDione (Διώνη \"Diṓnē\", from earlier *Διϝωνᾱ \"Diwōnā\") is essentially the feminine of the genitive form of Greek Ζεύς \"Zeús\", that is, Διός \"Diós\" (from earlier Διϝός \"Diwós\"), «of Zeus». Other goddesses were called by this name (see Dione). Due to her being a daughter of Dione, Aphrodite was sometimes called «Dionaea» (Διωναίη \"Diōnaíē\") and even «Dione».\n\nFollowing the deciphering of Linear B by Ventris and Chadwick in the 1950s, a goddess named \"Di-u-ja\" was found in the tablets. This was considered to be a female counterpart of Zeus and identified with Dione by some scholars.\n\nBy the time of Strabo, Dione was worshiped at a sacred grove near Lepreon on the west coast of the Peloponnesus. She was also worshiped as a consort at the temples of Zeus, particularly his oracle at Dodona. (perhaps the original, Indo-European consort of Zeus.) Herodotus called this the oldest oracle in Greece and recorded two related accounts of its founding: the priests at Thebes in Egypt told him that two priestesses had been taken by Phoenician pirates, one to Libya and the other to Dodona, and continued their earlier rites; the priestesses of Dodona claimed that two black doves had flown to Libya and Dodona and commanded the creation of oracles to Zeus. Homer and Herodotus both make Zeus the principal deity of the site, but some scholars propose Dodona originally served as a cult center of an Earth Goddess.\n\nIn the 2nd-century BC sculptural frieze of the Great Altar of Pergamum, Dione is inscribed in the cornice directly above her name and figures in the eastern third of the north frieze, among the Olympian family of Aphrodite. This placement making her the offspring of Uranus and Gaia is Homeric and contradicts the theory put forth by Erika Simon that the altar's organization was Hesiodic. Dione's possible appearance in the east pediment of the Parthenon would likewise place her among the children of Uranus and Gaia.\n\nThe mythology concerning Dione is not consistent across the existing sources.\n\nIn Book V of the \"Iliad\", during the last year of the Trojan War, the love goddess Aphrodite attempts to save her son Aeneas from the rampaging Greek hero Diomedes as she had previously saved her favorite Paris from his duel with Menelaus in Book III. Enraged, Diomedes chases her and drives his spear into her hand between the wrist and palm. Escorted by Iris to Ares, she borrows his horses and returns to Olympus. Dione consoles her with other examples of gods wounded by mortals Ares bound by the Aloadae and Hera and Hades shot by Heracles and notes that Diomedes is risking his life by fighting against the gods. (In fact, Diomedes subsequently fought both Apollo and Ares but lived to an old age; his wife Aegialia, however, took other lovers and never permitted him to return home to Argos after the war.) Dione then heals her wounds and Zeus, while admonishing her to leave the battlefield, calls her daughter.\n\nDione is not mentioned in Hesiod's treatment of the Titans, although the name does appear in the \"Theogony\" among his list of Oceanids, the daughters of Oceanus and Tethys, and according to Hesiod, Aphrodite was born from the foam created by the severed genitals of Uranus, when they were thrown into the sea by Cronus, after he castrated Uranus.\n\nThe \"Bibliotheca\" of the Pseudo-Apollodorus includes Dione among the Titans and makes her the child of Gaia and Uranus. He makes her the mother of Aphrodite by Zeus but clearly describes Dione as one of the god's adulterous partners and not his wife.\n\nThe Genealogy or Preface of Gaius Julius Hyginus's \"Fabulae\", lists Dione among the children of Gaia and Aether.\n\nThe 5th-century grammarian Hesychius of Alexandria described Dione as the mother of Bacchus in her entry from his \"Alphabetical Collection of All Words\". This is separately supported by one of the scholiasts on Pindar.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51369226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51369226", "title": "El Elegante Crater", "text": "El Elegante Crater\n\nEl Elegante (Spanish for \"elegant one\") is a maar (a type of volcanic crater) located in the Gran Desierto de Altar in the Sonoran Desert, Mexico.\n\nAt deep and across, the crater is the largest in the volcanic complex of Pinacate Peaks.\n\nThe crater was formed about 32,000 years ago when groundwater seeping down into the earth came into contact with magma rising from beneath the crust. The hot magma instantly turned the water to steam, and the sudden high pressure triggered a phreato-magmatic explosion, blowing a huge hole in the ground, and blasting out rocks, magmatic material and ash, forming the crater. Ejecta was spread out to a distance of about from the crater over what is now the desert floor. The crater rim is higher than the surrounding desert and shows layers of rock built up from the ejecta.\n\nEl Elegante contained a lake during the pluvial period preceding the last antithermal period.\n\nThe crater is located in an important area and nature reserve called El Pinacate y Gran Desierto de Altar Biosphere Reserve, which was declared a World Heritage Site by UNESCO in 2012. It functions as a natural park; El Elegante is the crater most visited by tourists.\n"}
{"id": "51928890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51928890", "title": "Elizabeth Batts Cook", "text": "Elizabeth Batts Cook\n\nElizabeth Batts Cook (1742 – 13 May 1835) was the wife and widow of Captain James Cook.\n\nShe was the daughter of Samuel Batts who was keeper of the Bell Inn, Wapping and one of her husband's mentors.\n\nShe married James Cook at St Margaret's Church, Barking, Essex on 21 December 1762.\nThe couple had six children: James (1763–94), Nathaniel (1764–80, lost aboard which foundered with all hands in a hurricane in the West Indies), Elizabeth (1767–71), Joseph (1768–68), George (1772–72) and Hugh (1776–93), the last of whom died of scarlet fever while a student at Christ's College, Cambridge. When not at sea, Cook lived in the East End of London and the family attended St Paul's Church, Shadwell, where their son James was baptised. After her husband was killed at Kealakekua Bay, Hawaii in 1779, Elizabeth Cook received an annual pension of 200 pounds from the Admiralty. In 1788, she moved to Clapham, Surrey.\n\nOutliving her husband and children, she died on 13 May 1835 at the age of 93. Elizabeth Cook was buried in St Andrew the Great church in Cambridge with her sons, James and Hugh. She left a bequest to pay the minister, support five poor aged women and to maintain the family's monument.\n\nCook has no known direct descendants — all her recorded children predeceased her and died without issue.\n\nA small memorial garden fountain was dedicated to Elizabeth Batts Cook on 27 February 1971 within the grounds of the E. G. Waterhouse National Camellia Garden at Caringbah South, NSW Australia. This garden is located within the Sutherland Shire, which also contains the place of Captain Cook's first landing on continental Australia at Botany Bay on 29 April 1770.\n\nThe fountain is accompanied by a dedication plaque and a separate \"storyboard\" plaque which provides details of the life of Elizabeth Batts Cook. The text on the plaque reads:\n\nThis fountain commemorates the life of Elizabeth Cook, wife of the famous navigator Captain James Cook. It is believed to be the only monument in the world to this woman of formidable courage and character.\n\nBorn Elizabeth Batts in 1742, she married James Cook on 21 December 1762 when she was 20 and he was 34 and already making a name for himself in the Navy.\n\nThey were married for 17 years but lived together only about four years in total in between Captain Cook's three epic voyages of discovery. They had six children, two of whom died as infants: George aged four months and Joseph one month. Their only daughter Elizabeth died at the age of four.\n\nCaptain Cook's death in February 1779 heralded a string of tragedies for Mrs Cook. Eight months later their son Nathaniel, 15, was lost at sea when his ship went down in a hurricane. Her remaining sons, Hugh, 17 and James, 31 died within weeks of one another in December 1793 and January 1794 - Hugh of scarlet fever at Cambridge, where he was a student, and James a Commander of the Royal Navy, who drowned.\n\nThe shock of these deaths confined Mrs Cook to her bed for two years and forever afterwards she observed four days of solemn fasting on the anniversaries of her bereavements, staying in her room praying and meditating with her husband's Bible.\n\nMrs Cook was known to be a skilled needlewoman and at the time of her husband's death in Hawaii she was embroidering a waistcoat for him to wear at court. The unfinished garment is exhibited at the Mitchell Library in Sydney along with Cook's relics, including the original grant for Captain Cook's Coat of Arms, awarded posthumously to his descendants in 1785.\nMrs Cook lived for another 56 years after her husband's death, and one of her proudest possessions was a gold medal, struck in his honour by the Royal Society. Her portrait, painted when she was 81, depicts a handsome, venerable lady with an oval face and an aquiline nose dressed, as always, in black satin. She wore a ring with a lock of her husband's hair in it and she entertained the highest respect for his memory, measuring everything by his standard of honour and morality. Her keenest expression of disapprobation was that Mr Cook - to her he was always Mr Cook, not Captain Cook - would never have done.\n\nBefore her death on 13 May 1835 at the age of 93, Mrs Cook went to great lengths to destroy all her private papers and correspondence with her beloved husband, considering them too sacred for other eyes. She was buried in the family vault at Great St Andrew's Church, Cambridge, between two of her sons.\n\n"}
{"id": "40604730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40604730", "title": "Energy Networks Australia", "text": "Energy Networks Australia\n\nEnergy Networks Australia (ENA) is the peak national body representing gas distribution and electricity transmission and distribution businesses throughout Australia.\n\nEnergy networks are the lower pressure gas pipes and low, medium and high voltage electricity lines that transmit and distribute gas and electricity from energy transmission systems directly to the doorsteps of energy customers.\n\nTwenty-five electricity and gas network companies are members of Energy Networks Australia, providing governments, policy-makers and the community with a single point of reference for major energy network issues in Australia.\n\nWith more than 13 million customer connections across the National Energy Market (NEM), Australia’s energy networks provide the final step in the safe and reliable delivery of gas and electricity to households, businesses and industries.\n\nEnergy Networks Australia's focus is on issues affecting gas distribution and electricity transmission and distribution networks. These issues include the national and state government policy and regulatory environments under which energy networks must operate, and key technical issues such as network safety and security of supply, reliability and power quality, the management of peak energy demand and energy efficiency.\n\nMost energy network businesses effectively operate as regulated businesses, with a role for independent economic regulation similar to that applying to other utility sectors such as water and telecommunications. State and Territory regulators have undertaken this task in the past, but for States and Jurisdictions in the NEM this role has now transitioned to the Australian Energy Regulator (AER). In WA and the Northern Territory state regulation continues.\n\nAs of 10 November 2016 the Energy Networks Association began trading as Energy Networks Australia. Energy Networks Australia commenced operations as the Energy Networks Association (ENA) in January 2004. It replaced the Australian Gas Association’s Network Operators Committee and the Electricity Supply Association of Australia’s Distribution Directorate, and assumed the representational functions of these two associations on energy network issues. In January 2016, the Energy Supply Association (esaa) became jointly owned and managed by the Australian Energy Council and Energy Networks Australia and its Board now consists of representatives of the Australian Energy Council and Energy Networks Australia. At the same time we also absorbed responsibility for Grid Australia’s activities on behalf of the electricity transmission sector.\n\nEnergy Networks Australia's Chairman is Nino Ficca, Managing Director, AusNet Services, and its Chief Executive Officer is Andrew Dillon.\n\n"}
{"id": "5338483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5338483", "title": "Ganga in Hinduism", "text": "Ganga in Hinduism\n\nIn Hinduism, the river Ganges is considered sacred and is personified as the goddess Gaṅgā. She is worshiped by Hindus who believe that bathing in the river causes the remission of sins and facilitates Moksha (liberation from the cycle of life and death), and that the water of the Ganges is considered very pure. Pilgrims immerse the ashes of their kin in the Ganges, which is considered by them to bring the spirits closer to moksha.\n\nSeveral places sacred to Hindus lie along the banks of the Ganges, including Gangotri, Haridwar, Allahabad and Varanasi. During the Loy Krathong festival in Thailand, candlelit floats are released into waterways to honour Gautama Buddha and goddess Ganga for good fortune and washing away sins (pāpa in Sanskrit, used to describe actions that create negative karma by violating moral and ethical codes, which brings negative consequences).\n\nGanga is described as the melodious, the fortunate, the cow that gives much milk, the eternally pure, the delightful, the body that is full of fish, affords delight to the eye and leaps over mountains in sport, the bedding that bestows water and happiness, and the friend or benefactor of all that lives.\n\nSince time immemorial, the Ganga River has been considered the holiest of all rivers by Hindus. Ganga is also personified as a goddess and worshipped as Goddess Ganga. She holds an important place in the Hindu pantheon. Ganga is represented as a fair-complexioned woman, wearing a white crown and sitting on a crocodile. She holds a water lily in her right hand and a lute in her left. When shown with four hands she carries a water-pot, a lily, a rosary and has one hand in a protective mode. The \"Rig Veda\" mentions Ganga but more of her is said in the Puranas.\n\nGanga is depicted four-armed and mounted on a crocodile or enthroned surrounded by crocodiles. In one of iconography in Maha Virat-rupa she holds jar of amrita, rosary, lotus or shivalinga and varada mudra. She may be depicted in other ways holding only a kalash (or 2 replacing lotus) and lotus, while other 2 hands in varada and abhaya mudra. Another one shows her holding kalasha, trident, shivalinga and varada mudra.\n\nAnother depiction popular especially in Bengal shows her holding Conch (shankha) , chakra (discus) , lotus and abhaya mudra , with Kalash releasing her holy water.\n\nIn Brahma Vaivarta Purana, Ganga is often depicted with her divine vehicle, the Makara — an animal with the head of a crocodile and tail of a dolphin. The crocodile has meaningful symbolisms. The crocodile represents our reptilian brain telling us that we use our intellect to outgrow fear in facing problems. The Goddess not only faces her fear, but she uses it as a vehicle to move her forward on her path to greater growth, strength, and beauty. Fear is a natural reaction to moving closer to the truth. This vahana is symbolic of outgrowing and fracturing self-concepts, behaviors, situations to move closer to her highest form and to the highest truth. It is like shaking things up to remove the pieces that no longer serve a higher purpose and integrating new things that do.\n\nThrough her vahana, Ganga indicates an attribute to take a problem by the horns, as the crocodile plucks the prey from the banks of the river, takes the prey-problem deep in the water-flowing life, spins it until the\nprey-problem is disoriented- sees a solution. Crocodile eggs are indicative of human destiny. The reptile takes considerable time to build nests on the river banks in which to lay their eggs. Then again they leave, seemingly without concern of their effort and the impatience to see babies being born. This is what Divine does for you. Your birth may be your karma but there you are left to swim the river of life and face trials and tribulations which come as uncertainities.\n\nBhagavata Purana depicts the birth of the Ganga. According to the text, Vishnu in one of his incarnations appeared as Vaman in the sacrificial arena of Asur King Mahabali. Then in order to measure the universe, he extended his left foot to the end of the universe and pierced a hole in its covering with the nail of his big toe. Through the hole, the pure water of the Causal Ocean (Divine Brahm-Water) entered this universe as the Ganges River. Having washed the lotus feet of the Lord, which are covered with reddish saffron, the water of the Ganges acquired a very beautiful pink color. Because the Ganges directly touches the lotus feet of Lord Vishnu (Narayana) before descending within this universe, it is known as \"Bhagavat-Padi\" or \"Vishnupadi\" which means \"Emanating from the lotus feet of Bhagavan (God)\". It finally settles in Brahmaloka or Brahmapura, abode of Lord Brahma before descending to planet Earth at the request of Bhagiratha and held safely by Lord Shiva on his head to prevent destruction of Bhumi Devi (Mother Earth). Then, the Ganges was released from Lord Shiva's hair to meet the needs of the country according to Hindu mythology. In other legends, Himavan fathered Parvati and Ganga.\n\nSeveral years later, a king named Sagara magically acquired sixty thousand sons. One day, King Sagara performed a ritual of worship for the good of the kingdom. One of the integral parts of the ritual was a horse, which was stolen by the jealous Indra. Sagara sent all his sons all over the earth to search for the horse. They found it in the nether-world (or Underworld) next to a meditating sage Kapil tied by Lord Indra(the king of Swarg). Believing that the sage had stolen the horse, they hurled insults at him and caused his penance to be disturbed. The sage opened his eyes for the first time in several years and looked at the sons of Sagara. With this glance, all sixty thousand were burnt to death.\n\nThe souls of the sons of Sagara wandered as ghosts since their final rites had not been performed. For the moksha of all the sons of Sagar, Anshuman(nephew of those 60,000 sons) started to pray Brahma to bring Ganga to the earth till the end of his life, but was not successful. Then his son Dilip did the same but did not succeed. When Bhagiratha (Means, one who does great hard work- he got his name from his great hard work for bringing Ganga to earth), one of the descendants of Sagara, son of Dilip, learnt of this fate, he vowed to bring Ganga down to Earth so that her waters could cleanse their souls and release them to heaven.\n\nBhagiratha prayed to Brahma that Ganga comes down to Earth. Brahma agreed and he ordered Ganga to go down to the Earth and then on to the nether regions so that the souls of Bhagiratha's ancestors would be able to go to heaven. Ganga felt that this was insulting and decided to sweep the whole Earth away as she fell from the heavens. Alarmed, Bhagiratha prayed to Shiva that he break up Ganga's descent.\n\nGanga arrogantly fell on Shiva's head. But Shiva calmly trapped her in his hair and let her out in small streams. The touch of Shiva further sanctified Ganga. As Ganga traveled to the nether-worlds, she created a different stream to remain on Earth to help purify unfortunate souls there. She is the only river to follow from all the three worlds – Swarga (heaven), Prithvi (Earth) and Patala (netherworld or hell). This is called \"Tripathagā\"(one who travels the three worlds) in Sanskrit language.\n\nBecause of Bhagiratha's efforts, Ganga descended to Earth and hence the river is also known as Bhagirathi and the term \"Bhagirath prayatna\" is used to describe valiant efforts or difficult achievements.\n\nAnother name that Ganga is known by is Jahnavi, Story has it that once Ganga came down to Earth, on her way to Bhagiratha, her rushing waters created turbulence and destroyed the fields and the sadhana of a sage called Jahnu. He was angered by this and drank up all of Ganga's waters. Upon this, the Gods prayed to Jahnu to release Ganga so that she could proceed with her mission. Pleased with their prayers, Jahnu released Ganga(her waters) from his ears. Hence the name \"Jahnavi\"(daughter of Jahnu) for Ganga.\n\nIt is sometimes believed that the river will finally dry up at the end of Kali Yuga, the last of the four stages the world goes through as part of the cycle of yugas (the era of darkness, the current era) just as with the Sarasvati river and this era will end. Next in(cyclic) order will be the Satya Yuga or the era of Truth.\n\nGanga is a consort to all three major male deities of Hinduism. As Brahma's partner she always travels with him in the form of water in his kamandalu (water-pot). She is also Vishnu's consort. She emanates from his foot as \"Vishnupadi\" in the \"avatarana\" story, and is also, with Lakshmi, his wife. In one popular story, envious of being outdone by each other, the wives begin to quarrel. While Lakshmi attempts to mediate the quarrel, Ganga and Sarasvati heap misfortune on each other. They curse each other to become rivers, and to carry within them, by washing, the sins of their human worshippers. Soon their husband, Vishnu, arrives and decides to calm the situation by separating the goddesses. He orders Sarasvati to become the wife of Brahma, Ganga to become the wife of Shiva, and Lakshmi, as the blameless conciliator, to remain as his own wife. Ganga and Sarasvati, however, are so distraught at this dispensation, and wail so loudly, that Vishnu is forced to take back his words. Consequently, in their lives as rivers they are still thought to be with him.\n\nIt is Shiva's relationship with Ganga that is the best-known in Ganga theology. Her descent, the \"avatarana\", is not a one time event, but a continuously occurring one in which she is forever falling from heaven into her locks and being forever tamed. Shiva is depicted in Hindu iconography as \"Gangadhara\", the \"Bearer of the Ganga,\" with Ganga, shown as spout of water, rising from his hair. The Shiva-Ganga relationship is both perpetual and intimate. Shiva is sometimes called \"Uma-Ganga-Patiswara\" (\"Husband and Lord of Uma (Parvati) and Ganga\"), and Ganga often arouses the jealousy of Shiva's better-known consort Parvati.\n\nGanga is the \"shakti\" or the moving, restless, rolling energy in the form of which the otherwise recluse and unapproachable Shiva appears on earth, showing how life on earth is always moving forward, never in the same place. As water, this moving energy can be felt, tasted, and absorbed. The war-god Skanda addresses the sage Agastya in the \"Kashi Khand\" of the \"Skanda Purana\" in these words: One should not be amazed ... that this Ganga is really Power, for is she not the Supreme Shakti of the Eternal Shiva, taken in the form of water? This Ganga, filled with the sweet wine of compassion, was sent out for the salvation of the world by Shiva, the Lord of the Lords. Good people should not think this Triple-Pathed River to be like the thousand other earthly rivers, filled with water. \n\nThe Ganga is also the mother, the \"Ganga Mata\" (\"Mata\"=\"mother\") of Hindu worship and culture, accepting all and forgiving all. Unlike other goddesses, she has no destructive or fearsome aspect, destructive though she might be as a river in nature. She is also a mother to other gods. She accepts Shiva's incandescent seed from the fire-god Agni, which is too hot for this world, and cools it in her waters. This union produces Skanda, or Kartikeya, the god of war. In the \"Mahabharata\", she is the wife of Shantanu, and the mother of heroic warrior-patriarch, Bhishma. When Bhishma is mortally wounded in battle, Ganga comes out of the water in human form and weeps uncontrollably over his body. It is also to be noted that Bhishma brought about his own downfall by abducting and disgracing a princess named Amba whose only wish was to be married.\n\nThe Ganga is the distilled lifeblood of the Hindu tradition, of its divinities, holy books, and enlightenment. As such, her worship does not require the usual rites of invocation (\"avahana\") at the beginning and dismissal (\"visarjana\") at the end, required in the worship of other gods. Her divinity is immediate and everlasting, but only for as long as the river survives.\n\nGanga is mentioned in the \"Rig Veda\", the earliest and theoretically the holiest of the Hindu scriptures. Ganga is mentioned in the nadistuti (Rigveda 10.75), which lists the rivers from east to west. In RV 6.45.31, the word \"Ganga\" is also mentioned, but it is not clear if the reference is to the river.\n\nRV 3.58.6 says that \"your ancient home, your auspicious friendship, O Heroes, your wealth is on the banks of the Jahnavi(JahnAvyAm)\". This verse could possibly refer to the Ganges. In RV 1.116.18–19, the Jahnavi and the Ganga River Dolphin occur in two adjacent verses.\n\nAccording to the Hindu scriptures like Skanda Purana, the goddess Ganga is foster-mother to Kartikeya (Subrahmanya, Murugan), who was actually a son of Shiva and Parvati.\n\nParvati is said to have created an image of Ganesha out of her bodily impurities which became endowed with life after immersion in the sacred waters of the Ganges. Therefore, Ganesha is said to have two mothers—Parvati and Ganga and hence is called \"Dvaimatura\" and also \"Gangeya\" (the son of Ganga). In southern India Vokkaliga Gowda and Kongu Vellalars are said to originate from mother Ganga.\n\nThe Hindu epic, Mahabharata, tells that the Vasus, cursed by Vashishta, had requested Ganga to be their mother. Ganga incarnated and became the wife of King Shantanu on condition that at no stage shall he question her actions or she would leave him. As seven Vasus were born as their children, one after the other, Ganga drowned them in her own waters, freeing them from their punishment and the king made no opposition. Only when the eighth was born did the king finally oppose his wife, who therefore left him. So the eighth son, Dyaus incarnated, remained alive, imprisoned in mortal form and later became known in his mortal incarnation as Bhishma (Devavrata), who is one of the most respected characters of Mahabharata.\nOn this day Ganga was reborn. Legend says on her way during her descendent to earth she by mistake destroyed the hut of sage jhanu. As a consequence the sage drank all her water . On request by bagirath and Ganga maa herself he released Ganga from his ear and she earned the name Jahanvi. It falls on Saptami of Vaishakh month's shukla paksha. For Ganga dussehra see article on it.\n\nGanga Maa is worshipped during Navratri as all the forms of Maa Adishakti are worshipped in those days.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31315108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31315108", "title": "Glaciers of Bhutan", "text": "Glaciers of Bhutan\n\nThe glaciers of Bhutan, which covered about 10 percent of the total surface area in the 1980s, are an important renewable source of water for Bhutan's rivers. Fed by fresh snow each winter and slow melting in the summer, the glaciers bring millions of litres of fresh water to Bhutan and downriver areas each year. Glacial melt also adds to monsoon-swollen rivers which may be a contributing factor to flooding. Where glacial movement temporary blocks riverflows, downstream areas may be threatened by glacial lake outburst flood (\"GLOFs\"). Although GLOFs are not a new phenomenon in Bhutan, their frequency has risen in the past three decades. Significant GLOFs occurred in 1957, 1960, 1968 and 1994, devastating lives and property downstream. According to the Bhutan Department of Energy however, the majority of rivers in Bhutan are more susceptible to fluctuation with changing rainfall patterns than to flooding directly attributable to glacier or snow melt.\n\nBhutanese territory contains some 677 glaciers and 2,674 glacial lakes and subsidiary lakes, out of which 25 pose a risk of GLOFs. The vast number of glaciers in Bhutan are classed as \"valley\" and \"mountain glaciers,\" although significant numbers of \"ice apron,\" and \"niche glacier\" types also exist. Some glacial lakes, such as Thorthormi Lake in Lunana Gewog, are not a single bodies of water but collections supraglacial ponds. Most glacial lakes identified as potentially dangerous feed into the Manas River and Puna Tsang (Sankosh) River water systems of north-central Bhutan. During a GLOF, residents of nearby downstream villages may have as little as twenty minutes to evacuate; floodwaters from one 1994 GLOF at Luggye lake took about seven hours to reach Punakha, some downstream.\n\nFor public safety, these glaciers and glacial lakes are maintained by the Ministry of Economic Affairs' Department of Geology and Mines, an executive (cabinet) agency of the government of Bhutan. The Department, as part of its environmental \"mitigation projects,\" aims to lower the levels of glacial lakes and thereby avert GLOF-related disaster. In 2001, for example, scientists identified Lake Thorthormi as one that threatened imminent and catastrophic collapse. The situation was eventually relieved by carving a water channel from the lip of the lake to relieve water pressure. The Department uses silent explosives and other means it considers environmentally friendly in order to minimize the ecological impact of its mitigation projects. These projects, however, remain difficult to conduct because of the weather, terrain, and relative lack of oxygen at the glacial lakes' altitudes. As of September 2010, GLOF early warning systems were slated for installation by mid-2011 in Punakha and Wangdue Phodrang Districts at a cost of USD4.2 million.\n\nBecause the state of glaciers in Bhutan involves questions of climate change, the topic is somewhat controversial. A 2008 United Nations report suggested that due to rising temperatures, glaciers in Bhutan were retreating at a rate of 30–40 meters per year, poised to make many lakes burst their banks and send millions of litres of floodwater downstream. This among many other climate-related issues identified in the report prompted the regional association of government ministers to establish the Southeast Asia Regional Health Emergency Fund in Thimphu in September 2007. Similarly, the member nations of South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) adopted bilateral agreements including measures on climate change and glaciers at its summit in April 2010.\n\nThe 2008 UN report also indicated Himalayan glaciers would melt within 25 years, however Prime Minister Jigme Thinley expressed a more dim outlook in a press conference in late March 2010, stating, \"Our glaciers are withdrawing very fast and we have reasons to worry that they may in fact disappear not in 2035, but even earlier.\" Further studies in 2009 indicated the rate of glacial melt in Bhutan was three times the world average, and that over the previous three decades regional temperatures had risen by 2.7 °C (4.86 °F). Satellite imaging also confirmed changes in glaciers and snow peaks, indicating increased runoff and decreased coverage. However, opinions varied on the effect of global warming in the Himalaya. According to US geological survey report, 66 glaciers in Bhutan have decreased by 8.1 percent in the last 30 years.\n\nOn the other hand, a study whose results were published in 2011 indicated glacial melt depended on several factors including debris cover, and that more than half of the glaciers in the Himalaya were stable or were in fact growing. Debris cover, such as rocks and mud, set apart the relatively stable glaciers of the Himalaya from the pristine glaciers of the Tibetan Plateau, currently in fast retreat. The study, conducted by the Universities of California and Potsdam and published in the journal \"Nature Geoscience\", was based on 286 glaciers along the Himalaya and Hindu Kush from Bhutan to the Afghanistan-Pakistan border. Another preliminary survey conducted by a team of Japanese and Bhutanese scientists, including a glacio-microbiologist, glacio-ecologist and geologist, indicated that the presence of a peculiar microorganism on the surfaces of glaciers could accelerate glacial melting and eventually lead to a glacial outburst.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4130399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4130399", "title": "Heating system", "text": "Heating system\n\nA heating system is a mechanism for maintaining temperatures at an acceptable level; by using thermal energy within a home, office, or other dwelling. Often part of an HVAC (heating, ventilation, air conditioning) system. A heating system may be a central heating system or distributed.\n\n"}
{"id": "42110163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42110163", "title": "Hitler's Warriors", "text": "Hitler's Warriors\n\nHitler's Warriors (German title: Hitlers Krieger) is a 1998 six-episode series of German historical documentaries first aired on Zweites Deutsches Fernsehen, created by Guido Knopp and co-created by Jörg Müllner and Henry Kohler. The series looks at six of the most important senior military officers of Nazi Germany in World War II. Profiling these men, the series explores the questions behind \"why it all happened\".\n\nThe senior officers consist of Field Marshal Erich von Manstein, referred to as \"the strategist\"; Field Marshal Friedrich Paulus, referred to as \"the defector\"; Field Marshal Erwin Rommel, referred to as \"the hero of Tobruk\"; Field Marshal Wilhelm Keitel, referred to as \"the lackey\"; Colonel General Ernst Udet, referred to as \"the Devil's general\"; and Admiral Wilhelm Canaris, referred to as, \"the conspirator\".\n\nEach documentary lasts from 40–45 minutes. The series focus on each individual's involvement in the war effort and responsibility regarding crimes committed under their command.\n\nWhile profiling their military careers, the documentary features statements, comments, criticism, and opinions from their former colleagues and veterans regarding their triumphs or fatal blunders. While profiling their private life, the documentary features personal insights from wives, relatives, friends, and children such as Rüdiger Manstein and Manfred Rommel.\n\nThe series also features private family photographs and footage never revealed to the public before, including private visits with Hitler and other top Nazi or military officials.\n\n<onlyinclude>\n</onlyinclude>\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10277583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10277583", "title": "Hydrokenoelsmoreite", "text": "Hydrokenoelsmoreite\n\nHydrokenoelsmoreite is a hydrous tungsten oxide mineral with formula □WO(HO). Hydrokenoelsmoreite is a colorless to white, translucent isometric mineral. It has a Mohs hardness of 3, exhibits no cleavage and has a splintery fracture. It has a vitreous to adamantine luster. It is optically isotropic with an index of refraction of n = 2.24.\n\nIt forms from the oxidation of ferberite within granitic pegmatite dykes and in pegmatitic greisen veins. It has a structure based on a defect pyrochlore lattice (A2B2O6O’). \n\nIt was first described for an occurrence in Elsmore Hill, New South Wales, Australia from where it takes its name.\n\n"}
{"id": "25478709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25478709", "title": "Indian Ocean Gyre", "text": "Indian Ocean Gyre\n\nThe Indian Ocean gyre, located in the Indian Ocean, is one of the eighteen major oceanic gyres, large systems of rotating ocean currents, which together form the backbone of the global conveyor belt. The Indian Ocean gyre is composed of two major currents: the South Equatorial Current, and the West Australian Current.\n\nNormally moving counter-clockwise, in the winter the Indian Ocean gyre reverses direction due to the seasonal winds of the South Asian Monsoon. In the summer, the land is warmer than the ocean, so surface winds blow from the ocean to the land. However, during the winter, these temperatures reverse, making the winds blow from the land to the ocean. Because most of the air pressure gradient is retained behind the Tibetan plateau, air pressure gradients over the Indian Ocean and the gyre are small. This results in winds of moderate strength, due to the protection from the full force winds blowing off the Mongolian high pressure region. Because of these moderate, dry winds, the Winter Monsoon season in the Indian Ocean region is the dry season for most of Southern Asia. Due to this seasonal wind cycle, the currents of the Indian Ocean, which make up the Indian Ocean gyre, are directly affected, causing reversal.\n\nLike the other gyres, it contains a garbage patch. A garbage patch is a suspended region of marine debris within the water column that circulate the gyre constantly. The Indian Ocean’s garbage patch covers a massive area: at least five million square kilometers (two million square miles). As garbage patches such as these circulate for long periods of time, they cause inorganic toxins to enter the food chain due to solar breakdown of plastics in the water. In the Indian Ocean gyre, the garbage patch has been more of a mystery. Having just been discovered in 2010, it is still under research. It is known, however, that like most garbage patches, it is very fluid, and changes with the seasons, making its location difficult to pinpoint. It seems to circulate with the Indian Ocean gyre, from the Australian side to the African side, down the African coast, and then back to Australia. According to the team who discovered the garbage patch, the full rotation of the gyre’s garbage patch takes about six years, until it reaches the center of the gyre, where it may remain indefinitely.\n\n"}
{"id": "31432398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31432398", "title": "Japan Electric Association", "text": "Japan Electric Association\n\nThe (JEA) is a membership organisation for the electricity sector in Japan and, although it has roots dating back to 1892, was founded in October 1921. It currently has around 4,800 corporate and individual members.\n\nThe JCA has a number of committees that set national technical guidelines (JEAGs), codes (JEACs) and standards covering areas ranging from electrical safety to the design of nuclear power stations some of which are regarded as optional 'independent standards of the private sectors' while others have official status as the 'standards of academic societies and associations'.\n\nThe JCA also acts as the main lobby group for the and is active in promoting nuclear power.\n\nAmong its other work, the JCA promotes education, publishes a range of books and guides, and holds lectures, seminars and cultural events. Since 1942 the ECA has published \"The Denki Shimbun\" (The Electric Daily News), founded in 1907 as the Electrical News.\n\nThrough the work of its committees, the JCA prepares and publishes a number of codes and guides for the Japanese nuclear power industry, including the \"Rules of Quality Assurance for Safety of Nuclear Power Plants\" (JEAC 4111-2003) and the \"Guideline for Development and Design of Computerized Human-Machine Interface in the Central Control Room\" (JEAG 4617-2005), intended to meet the performance requirements specified under the Electricity Utilities Industry Law As of 2007, the Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency were engaged in the process of evaluating certain standards produced by the JEA and others for technical adequacy.\n\nThere have been allegations that the JEA wields too much power in setting standards. Professor Katsuhiko Ishibashi, one of the seismologists on a Japanese government subcommittee that produced the 2006 \"Regulatory Guide for Reviewing Seismic Design of Nuclear Power Reactor Facilities\" claimed that the review process was 'unscientific' and the outcome rigged to suit the interests of the JEA, which had 11 of its committee members on the 19-member government subcommittee and that among other problems the guide was 'seriously flawed' as a consequence because it underestimated the design basis earthquake ground motion.\n\nBetween 1923 and January 1, 1965, the JEA was one of the bodies authorised to inspect electricity meters, a function subsequently transferred to the Japan Electric Meters Inspection Corporation (JEMIC).\n\nThe Japan Electrical Safety & Environment Technology Laboratories (JET) were founded as the \"Japan Electrical Testing Laboratories of Japan Electric Association\" in February 1963.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46365245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46365245", "title": "Kyle Boelte", "text": "Kyle Boelte\n\nKyle Boelte is an American essayist and author. He was born in a small town in western Kansas and grew up near Denver, Colorado. \n\nBoelte's book \"The Beautiful Unseen: Variations on Fog and Forgetting\" is about his brother's suicide, when they were both teenagers, as well as San Francisco fog. The book received positive reviews in The San Francisco Chronicle (\"one of the most haunting books ever written about the fragility of memory\"), The Los Angeles Review of Books (\"Boelte’s sure-footed prose makes \"The Beautiful Unseen\" a lovely journey\"), and Booklist (\"Boelte conveys the deep, abiding sense of loss such tragedies inflict, yet softly, tenderly communicates the conflicting sensations of confronting memories, both lost and found\"). Its major themes include the impermanence of memory and the importance of nature, including wilderness, in our lives.\n\nBoelte's essays have been published in Zyzzyva, High Country News, and Full Stop. He was a finalist for the Annie Dillard Award for Creative Nonfiction in 2013. His essay \"Reluctant Citizens\" was included in \"The Best American Nonrequired Reading 2016\" and was cited as a Notable Essay in \"The Best American Essays 2016\".\n\nKyle Boelte (2015) \"The Beautiful Unseen: Variations on Fog and Forgetting\". Soft Skull Press. \n"}
{"id": "5894083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5894083", "title": "List of Mecysmaucheniidae species", "text": "List of Mecysmaucheniidae species\n\nThis page lists all described species of the spider family Mecysmaucheniidae as of May 21, 2010.\n\n\"Aotearoa\" \n\n\"Chilarchaea\" \n\n\"Mecysmauchenioides\" \n\n\"Mecysmauchenius\" \n\n\"Mesarchaea\" \n\n\"Semysmauchenius\" \n\n\"Zearchaea\" \n\n"}
{"id": "47531801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47531801", "title": "List of Navicula species", "text": "List of Navicula species\n\nList of plankton species in the genus Navicula.\n\n, Algaebase lists 1280 accepted species and more than 1900 proposed species in the \"Navicula\" genus of plankton. They include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43419422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43419422", "title": "List of Panicum species", "text": "List of Panicum species\n"}
{"id": "25319878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25319878", "title": "List of Superfund sites in South Dakota", "text": "List of Superfund sites in South Dakota\n\nThis is a list of Superfund sites in South Dakota designated under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) environmental law. The CERCLA federal law of 1980 authorized the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to create a list of polluted locations requiring a long-term response to clean up hazardous material contaminations. These locations are known as Superfund sites, and are placed on the National Priorities List (NPL). The NPL guides the EPA in \"determining which sites warrant further investigation\" for environmental remediation. \n\nAs of March 26, 2010, there were two Superfund sites on the National Priorities List in South Dakota. No sites are currently proposed for entry on the list. Two sites have been cleaned up and removed from the NPL.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "431030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=431030", "title": "List of U.S. state and territory trees", "text": "List of U.S. state and territory trees\n\nThis is a list of U.S. state and territory trees, including official trees of the following states and U.S. territories (and the District of Columbia).\n\n"}
{"id": "47738222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47738222", "title": "List of annelid families", "text": "List of annelid families\n\nList of annelid families describes the taxa relationships in the phylum Annelida, which contains more than 17,000 extant species including ragworms, earthworms, and leeches.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17390688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17390688", "title": "List of earthquakes in China", "text": "List of earthquakes in China\n\nThis is a list of earthquakes in China:\n\n"}
{"id": "34905442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34905442", "title": "List of mountain peaks of Hawaii", "text": "List of mountain peaks of Hawaii\n\nThis article comprises three sortable tables of the 13 major mountain peaks of the Hawaiian Islands and the U.S. State of Hawaii. Each of these 13 major summits has at least of topographic prominence.\n\nThe summit of a mountain or hill may be measured in three principal ways:\n\nOf the 13 major summits of Hawaii, Mauna Kea and Mauna Loa exceed elevation, Haleakalā exceeds , Hualalai exceeds , and 11 peaks exceed elevation.\n\nFour of these peaks rise on the island of Hawaii, two on Maui, two on Kauai, two on Molokai, two on Oahu, and one on Lānai.\n\nOf the 13 major summits of Hawaii, Mauna Kea exceeds of topographic prominence, Haleakalā exceeds , Mauna Loa exceeds , six peaks are ultra-prominent summits with more than, and eight peaks exceed of topographic prominence.\n\nOf the 13 major summits of Hawaii, Mauna Kea has of topographic isolation and four peaks exceed of topographic isolation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20548063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20548063", "title": "List of rivers of Greenland", "text": "List of rivers of Greenland\n\nThis is a list of rivers of Greenland. \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8591899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8591899", "title": "List of stars in Virgo", "text": "List of stars in Virgo\n\nThis is the list of notable stars in the constellation Virgo, sorted by decreasing brightness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47090749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47090749", "title": "List of white dwarfs", "text": "List of white dwarfs\n\nThis is a list of exceptional white dwarfs.\n\nThese were the first white dwarfs discovered fitting these conditions\nThese are the white dwarfs which are currently known to fit these conditions\n\n"}
{"id": "118570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=118570", "title": "Magnetar", "text": "Magnetar\n\nA magnetar is a type of neutron star believed to have an extremely powerful magnetic field (formula_1 G). The magnetic field decay powers the emission of high-energy electromagnetic radiation, particularly X-rays and gamma rays. The theory regarding these objects was proposed by Robert Duncan and Christopher Thompson in 1992, but the first recorded burst of gamma rays thought to have been from a magnetar had been detected on March 5, 1979. During the following decade, the magnetar hypothesis became widely accepted as a likely explanation for soft gamma repeaters (SGRs) and anomalous X-ray pulsars (AXPs).\n\nLike other neutron stars, magnetars are around in diameter and have a mass 2–3 times that of the Sun. The density of the interior of a magnetar is such that a tablespoon of its substance would have a mass of over 100 million tons. Magnetars are differentiated from other neutron stars by having even stronger magnetic fields, and rotating comparatively quicker, with most neutron stars completing a rotation once every one to ten seconds, compared to less than one second for a magnetar. This magnetic field gives rise to very strong and characteristic bursts of X-rays and gamma rays. The active life of a magnetar is short. Their strong magnetic fields decay after about 10,000 years, after which activity and strong X-ray emission cease. Given the number of magnetars observable today, one estimate puts the number of inactive magnetars in the Milky Way at 30 million or more.\n\nStarquakes triggered on the surface of the magnetar disturb the magnetic field which encompasses it, often leading to extremely powerful gamma ray flare emissions which have been recorded on Earth in 1979, 1998, and 2004.\n\nMagnetars are characterized by their extremely powerful magnetic fields of 10 to 10 tesla. These magnetic fields are hundreds of millions of times stronger than any man-made magnet, and quadrillions of times more powerful than the field surrounding Earth. Earth has a geomagnetic field of 30–60 microteslas, and a neodymium-based, rare-earth magnet has a field of about 1.25 tesla, with a magnetic energy density of 4.0×10 J/m. A magnetar's 10 tesla field, by contrast, has an energy density of 4.0×10 J/m, with an \"E/c\" mass density more than 10,000 times that of lead. The magnetic field of a magnetar would be lethal even at a distance of 1000 km due to the strong magnetic field distorting the electron clouds of the subject's constituent atoms, rendering the chemistry of life impossible. At a distance of halfway from Earth to the moon, a magnetar could strip information from the magnetic stripes of all credit cards on Earth. , they are the most powerful magnetic objects detected throughout the universe.\n\nAs described in the February 2003 \"Scientific American\" cover story, remarkable things happen within a magnetic field of magnetar strength. \"X-ray photons readily split in two or merge. The vacuum itself is polarized, becoming strongly birefringent, like a calcite crystal. Atoms are deformed into long cylinders thinner than the quantum-relativistic de Broglie wavelength of an electron.\" In a field of about 10 teslas atomic orbitals deform into rod shapes. At 10 teslas, a hydrogen atom becomes a spindle 200 times narrower than its normal diameter.\n\nThe strong fields of magnetars are understood as resulting from a magnetohydrodynamic dynamo process in the turbulent, extremely dense conducting fluid that exists before the neutron star settles into its equilibrium configuration. These fields then persist due to persistent currents in a proton-superconductor phase of matter that exists at an intermediate depth within the neutron star (where neutrons predominate by mass). A similar magnetohydrodynamic dynamo process produces even more intense transient fields during coalescence of pairs of neutron stars.\n\nWhen in a supernova, a star collapses to a neutron star, and its magnetic field increases dramatically in strength. Halving a linear dimension increases the magnetic field fourfold. Duncan and Thompson calculated that when the spin, temperature and magnetic field of a newly formed neutron star falls into the right ranges, a dynamo mechanism could act, converting heat and rotational energy into magnetic energy and increasing the magnetic field, normally an already enormous 10 teslas, to more than 10 teslas (or 10 gauss). The result is a \"magnetar\". It is estimated that about one in ten supernova explosions results in a magnetar rather than a more standard neutron star or pulsar.\n\nOn March 5, 1979, a few months after the successful dropping of satellites into the atmosphere of Venus, the two unmanned Soviet spaceprobes, Venera 11 and 12, that were then drifting through the Solar System were hit by a blast of gamma radiation at approximately 10:51 EST. This contact raised the radiation readings on both the probes from a normal 100 counts per second to over 200,000 counts a second, in only a fraction of a millisecond.\n\nThis burst of gamma rays quickly continued to spread. Eleven seconds later, Helios 2, a NASA probe, which was in orbit around the Sun, was saturated by the blast of radiation. It soon hit Venus, and the Pioneer Venus Orbiter's detectors were overcome by the wave. Seconds later, Earth received the wave of radiation, where the powerful output of gamma rays inundated the detectors of three U.S. Department of Defense Vela satellites, the Soviet Prognoz 7 satellite, and the Einstein Observatory. Just before the wave exited the Solar System, the blast also hit the International Sun–Earth Explorer. This extremely powerful blast of gamma radiation constituted the strongest wave of extra-solar gamma rays ever detected; it was over 100 times more intense than any known previous extra-solar burst. Because gamma rays travel at the speed of light and the time of the pulse was recorded by several distant spacecraft as well as on Earth, the source of the gamma radiation could be calculated to an accuracy of about 2 arcseconds. The direction of the source corresponded with the remnants of a star that had gone supernova around 3000 B.C.E. It was in the Large Magellanic Cloud and the source was named SGR 0525-66; the event itself was named GRB 790305b, the first observed SGR megaflare.\n\nOn February 21, 2008, it was announced that NASA and researchers at McGill University had discovered a neutron star with the properties of a radio pulsar which emitted some magnetically powered bursts, like a magnetar. This suggests that magnetars are not merely a rare type of pulsar but may be a (possibly reversible) phase in the lives of some pulsars. On September 24, 2008, ESO announced what it ascertained was the first optically active magnetar-candidate yet discovered, using ESO's Very Large Telescope. The newly discovered object was designated SWIFT J195509+261406. On September 1, 2014, ESA released news of a magnetar close to supernova remnant Kesteven 79. Astronomers from Europe and China discovered this magnetar, named 3XMM J185246.6+003317, in 2013 by looking at images that had been taken in 2008 and 2009. In 2013, a magnetar PSR J1745-2900 was discovered, which orbits the black hole in the Sagittarius A* system. This object provides a valuable tool for studying the ionized interstellar medium toward the Galactic Center. In 2018, the result of the merger of two neutron stars was determined to be a hypermassive magnetar.\n\n, 23 magnetars are known, with six more candidates awaiting confirmation. A full listing is given in the McGill SGR/AXP Online Catalog. Examples of known magnetars include:\n\nUnusually bright supernovae are thought to result from the death of very large stars as pair-instability supernovae (or pulsational pair-instability supernovae). However, recent research by astronomers has postulated that energy released from newly formed magnetars into the surrounding supernova remnants may be responsible for some of the brightest supernovae, such as SN 2005ap and SN 2008es.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55525985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55525985", "title": "Matthew S. Johnson", "text": "Matthew S. Johnson\n\nMatthew Stanley Johnson (born 1966) is an American atmospheric chemistry scientist at Atmospheric Research Center at the University of Copenhagen. \nJohnson has made contributions to several areas of chemistry, including kinetics, spectroscopy, isotope effects and application of atmospheric chemistry knowledge to air pollution control systems.\n\nJohnson studied chemistry at S.A. Macalester College, Saint Paul, Minnesota. In 1995, he was promoted to the Spectroscopy of Reactive Molecules and Cluster Compounds at the California Institute of Technology, Caltech.\n\nAfter several stations in Minnesota and Caltech, he was a student of the Fulbright program at the MAX-Lab accelerator at the Swedish University of Lund, and in 1998 became an assistant professor in University of Copenhagen. In the field of kinetics he coordinates the Nordic Network for Chemical Kinetics (NoNeCK), he has five filed patents and over 250 publications in internationally referenced scientific journals.\nIn 2012, Johnson and Harnung published their book titled \"Chemistry and the Environment\". \nTwo start-up company in air cleaning industries are established based on Johnson's scientific results.\nJohnson is married and has two children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "85495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=85495", "title": "Mellona", "text": "Mellona\n\nMellona or Mellonia was an ancient Roman goddess said by St. Augustine to promote the supply of honey (Latin \"mel, mellis\"), as Pomona did for apples and Bubona for cattle. Arnobius describes her as \"a goddess important and powerful regarding bees, taking care of and protecting the sweetness of honey.\"\n\nW.H. Roscher includes Mellona among the \"indigitamenta\", the list of deities maintained by Roman priests to assure that the correct divinity was invoked for rituals.\n\n"}
{"id": "203808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203808", "title": "Meme pool", "text": "Meme pool\n\nA meme pool is the sum total of all memes (transmittable units of cultural ideas, practices, symbols) present in a given human population. The term is analogous to gene pool. The meme pool is in essence the matrix of the whole of the culture of a population. Because the memes of instruction of production of material culture are included, then the entire culture, including material culture and interactions between individuals is determined by information held within the meme pool. The state of a meme pool determines what sort of memes will be reproductive, and in this way it may be thought of as the meme-logical environment. \n\nExamples of meme pools may include large Internet communities such as imageboards, online forums, and wikis. More tangibly, large shopping malls, schools, and other social institutions may be included in the definition of a meme pool.\n\nThe term was coined by Richard Dawkins in The Selfish Gene. \n"}
{"id": "9717384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9717384", "title": "Middle America (Americas)", "text": "Middle America (Americas)\n\nMiddle America is a region in the mid-latitudes of the Americas. In southern North America, it usually comprises Mexico, the nations of Central America, and the Caribbean. In northern South America, it usually comprises Colombia and Venezuela. The Caribbean is occasionally excluded from the region, and the Guianas are infrequently included.\n\nPhysiographically, Middle America marks the territorial transition between the rest of North America and South America, connecting yet separating the two. On the west, the Middle American mainland comprises the tapering, isthmian tract of the American landmass between the southern Rocky Mountains in the southern United States and the northern tip of the Andes in Colombia, separating the Pacific Ocean on the west and the Atlantic Ocean (viz. the Gulf of Mexico and Caribbean Sea) on the east, while the Greater and Lesser Antilles form an island arc in the east. The region developed subaerially southward from North America as a complex volcanic arc-trench system during the Early Cretaceous period, eventually forming the land bridge during the Pliocene epoch when its southern end (at Panama) collided with South America through tectonic action.\nOccasionally, the term Middle America is used synonymously with Central America (compare with \"Middle Africa\" and \"Central Africa\"). In English, the term is uncommonly used as a synonym of the term Mesoamerica (or Meso-America), which generally refers to an ancient culture region situated in Middle America extending roughly from central Mexico to northern Costa Rica. In addition, some residents of the region (e.g., Costa Ricans and Nicaraguans) may be referred to as Meso-Americans or Central Americans, but not, however, as Middle Americans, which refers to a particular constituency in the United States.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "28976278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28976278", "title": "Muslim Seven Year Action Plan on Climate Change", "text": "Muslim Seven Year Action Plan on Climate Change\n\nThe Muslim Seven Year Action Plan on Climate Change is a climate action plan for the global Islamic community, meant to run from 2010 to 2017. It was developed by the British Earth Mates Dialogue Center and the Kuwait Ministry of Awqaf and Islamic Affairs. It is one of several multi-year climate action plans developed by major religious communities, developed in coordination with the Alliance of Religions and Conservation and the United Nations Development Programme.\n\nAccording to the Alliance of Religions and Conservation, the plan proposes \"investigating every level of Muslim activity from daily life to annual pilgrimages, from holy cities to the future training of Imams,\" \"developing the major Muslim cities as green city models for other Islamic urban areas,\" and \"developing an Islamic label for environmentally friendly goods and services.\" Proposals were to be managed by a group called the Muslim Association for Climate Change Action (MACCA, an acronym meant to sound like \"Mecca\").\n\nAt a follow-up conference in Istanbul in July 2009, about two hundred Muslim scholars, leaders, and government officials endorsed the plan and established MACCA. Endorsers included the Grand Mufti of Egypt, Sheikh Ali Goma'a, the Mufti of Palestine, Dr. Ekrama Sabri, the Adviser of the Prince of Mecca and Medina, and the Islamic Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation.\n\nThe plan was launched at the Windsor Celebration in November 2009.\n\nAccording to \"Islam Today\", the April 2010 International Muslim Conference on Climate Change Issues in Bogor, Indonesia included discussion of a wide range of policy ideas, but failed to set up the proposed Muslim Association on Climate Change Action (MACCA) as an umbrella group to implement the Bogor declaration.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "26562028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26562028", "title": "National Museum of Natural History, Malta", "text": "National Museum of Natural History, Malta\n\nThe National Museum of Natural History () is a natural history museum in the mediaeval walled city of Mdina, Malta. It is housed in Palazzo Vilhena, a French Baroque palace rebuilt in 1726 by Grand Master Antonio Manoel de Vilhena to designs of Charles François de Mondion. The museum opened to the public in 1973, and is run by Heritage Malta.\n\nThe museum gives the visitor an overview of Maltese ecosystems (both on ground and under water), focusing on endemic plants and bird of the Islands, such as the Maltese Centaury and Blue Rock Thrush.\n\nThis museum display ranks a large variety of minerals, fossils, insects, reptiles, birds, mammals, fish and sections about Geology and Palaeontology.\n\nOn Tuesday May 18, 2004, Malta’s Apollo 17 Goodwill Moon rock was stolen from the Museum. According to an Associated Press story the Moon rock has a value of 5 million dollars (U.S), making it one of the largest valued thefts in Malta's history. The Moon rock has not been recovered.\n\n"}
{"id": "3174442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3174442", "title": "Nsutite", "text": "Nsutite\n\nNsutite is a manganese oxide mineral with formula: (MnMnO(OH) where x = 0.06-0.07). It is found in most large manganese deposits and was first discovered in Nsuta, Ghana. Since then, it has been found worldwide. Nsutite is a dull mineral with a hardness of 6.5-8.5 and an average specific gravity of 4.45. Nustite is used as a cathode in zinc-carbon batteries, but synthetic manganese oxide is gradually replacing it.\n"}
{"id": "36104129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36104129", "title": "Playa de Gulpiyuri", "text": "Playa de Gulpiyuri\n\nPlaya de Gulpiyuri is a flooded sinkhole with an inland beach located near Llanes, in Asturias Northern Spain, around 100 m from the Cantabrian Sea. Roughly 40 meters in length, it is fully tidal due to a series of underground tunnels carved by the salt water of the Cantabrian Sea which allows water from the Bay of Biscay to create small waves. \n\nIt is a popular tourist destination, natural monument, and part of Spain's Regional Network of Protected Natural Areas.\n"}
{"id": "38084580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38084580", "title": "Preliminary reference Earth model", "text": "Preliminary reference Earth model\n\nThe Preliminary reference Earth model (PREM) is a one-dimensional model representing the average Earth properties as a function of planetary radius. It includes a table of Earth properties, including elastic properties, attenuation, density, pressure, and gravity, as a function of planetary radius.\n\nPREM has been widely used as the basis for seismic tomography and related global geophysical models \n. It incorporates anelastic dispersion and anisotropy and therefore it is frequency-dependent and transversely isotropic for the upper mantle.\n\nPREM was developed by Adam M. Dziewonski and Don L. Anderson in response to guidelines of a \"Standard Earth Model Committee\" of the International Association of Geodesy (IAG) and the International Association of Seismology and Physics of the Earth's Interior (IASPEI) Other Earth reference models include iasp91 and ak135.\n\n"}
{"id": "38503554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38503554", "title": "Robosquirrel", "text": "Robosquirrel\n\nRobosquirrel refers to several versions of robotic squirrels developed by researchers at the University of California, Davis and San Diego State University. Robosquirrel is currently in use and development in an interdisciplinary research project that uses biorobotics to investigate how communication between prey (e.g., squirrels) and predators (e.g., rattlesnakes) evolve in response to each other. It has received extensive science and popular media coverage. \nIt stirred controversy when Senator Tom Coburn listed it in his \"Wastebook 2012\" as a scientific research project that wastes United States federal tax dollars. \nSenator Coburn's release of \"Wastebook 2012\" was quickly picked up by the popular media and the robosquirrel project was the headline of many media stories.\n\nThe robosquirrel research project, in which robosquirrel is used and developed, has four aims: (1) to establish collaborations between ecologists and engineers to develop next generation robotic technology for studying predator-prey communication behavior, (2) to increase minority participation in science, (3) to develop public outreach, and (4) to support undergraduate and graduate education in biology and engineering. Currently, three versions of robosquirrel have been developed. \nIt is currently funded by the National Science Foundation (NSF) \nbased on peer review and by meeting criteria of intellectual merit and broader impacts required by NSF.\n\nThe controversy focuses on the amount of money spent ($325,000) on robosquirrel. The researchers have responded that robosquirrel only cost a few hundred dollars \nand that approximately 70% of the funds are currently spent on training future biologists and engineers.\n\nDonald Owings observed an interesting phenomenon during research in the field: when a California ground squirrel comes across a rattlesnake, it often raises its tail and waves it from side to side.\n\nIn 2007, Owings (Department of Psychology and his graduate student at the time, Aaron Rundus, began collaborating with Sanjay Joshi (Department of Mechanical/Aeronautical Engineering) at University of California, Davis. They used an infrared camera to videotape how snakes and squirrels behaviorally interact. They found that a squirrel shunts blood to its tail and thereby heats it up when encountering a rattlesnake but not for non-poisonous snakes.\n\nRattlesnakes were known to use infrared radiation to detect prey, but what they discovered suggests that the squirrels evolved the ability to communicate with rattlesnakes by heating up their tails and thereby signalling with infrared radiation.\n\nTo test this hypothesis, they built a robotic squirrel (robosquirrel) that could behaviorally respond to rattlesnakes when they moved. They found that when robosquirrel waved a heated tail in response to the movement of a rattlesnake, the snake became defensive (i.e., it moved away from the robotic squirrel) rather than predatory. If robosquirrel waved an unheated tail, then the rattlesnake continued its predatory behavior.\n\nThe next step was to determine whether squirrel behavior when rattlesnakes had not been encountered reduced the predatory behavior of rattlesnakes waiting in ambush. They video-recorded predatory behavior of rattlesnakes when ground squirrels flagged their tails. The researchers found that tail-flagging decreased the likelihood that rattlesnakes would strike and increased the likelihood that they would move away from that area.\n\nThey found that California ground squirrels are actually performing two types of tail flagging: \"vigilance advertising\" and \"perception advertising\". Vigilance advertising is hypothesized to occur when a squirrel enters an area that may contain rattlesnakes. By tail flagging, a squirrel may be signaling to a snake that it is vigilant and prepared to dodge any attacks. Perception advertising is hypothesized to occur when a squirrel encounters a rattlesnake and its tail flagging functions to signal to the snake that it is prepared to respond to attack and to warn other squirrels of the presence of rattlesnakes.\n\nTo test these hypotheses about the function of tail flagging, they built robosquirrel to record encounters with rattlesnakes. Robosquirrel was programmed to wag its tail in the presence of a snake and its tail temperature can increase above its body temperature when it encounters snakes. The robosquirrel behaviors presented to rattlesnakes in naturalistic contexts can be precisely controlled. This control of behavior is impossible with living squirrels and so robosquirrel allows researchers to investigate how rattlesnakes respond to specific behaviors.\n\nThe first robosquirrel was built using a taxidermically mounted adult female California ground squirrel. The tail was moved by a servo, which allowed robosquirrel to flag it tail at specified intervals. MATLAB software via a mini synchronous serial channel microcontroller, controlled the tail-flagging of robosquirrel.\n\nTo control the temperature of the interior of robosquirrel’s body, a coiled Nichrome 80 resistance wire was inserted and a cartridge heater was inserted into its tail. The temperature of the Nichrome wire and the cartridge heater were controlled by thermostats wired with thermocouples that were placed inside its body and tail. Power to the two heaters was regulated via the thermostats by using a proportional-integral differential (PID) control loop to regulate the duty cycle of the power relays.\n\nAn overhead camera videotaped the arena in which robosquirrel was mounted on a wooden stage beneath which were the theromostats and heater relays. A Rattlesnake was marked by attaching a small red light-emitting diode (LED) it. When a snake entered the arena, the images from the arena were analyzed by a program written in MATLAB that determined the distance between the squirrel and the LED. The program then calculated the rate of tail flagging based on the distance between the LED and robosquirrel. As the distance between the squirrel and LED on the rattlesnake decreased, robosquirrel increased its rate of tail flagging. The rates of tail flagging were based on previous field observations.\n\nThe first version of the field robosquirrel was a modification of the laboratory robosquirrel. The heating system of laboratory robosquirrel was repackaged in a toolbox for easy transportation and a Duracell Power-pack inverter provided power for the heaters and thermostats. Instead of using a desktop computer to process images and control tail flagging, an 8-b radio controller allowed a remote control to be used instead.\n\nTesting of robosquirrel was conducted at the Santa Margarita Ecological Reserve (SMER) near Fallbrook, California, operated by San Diego State University. Six red diamond rattlesnakes (\"Crotalus ruber\") were radio tagged for the study. For test trials, one observer positioned robosquirrel and controlled its tail flagging, while another observer monitored the rattlesnake’s response to robosquirrel.\n\nThe researchers, however, ran into problems. First, the outdoor robosquirrel was heavy and difficult to transport, requiring two or three people to carry it. Robosquirrel had to be moved across rough terrain and, at the same time, the researchers had to watch out for venomous snakes, tarantulas, and mountain lions. Second, rattlesnakes located themselves in a variety of ambush sites. Each site presented different challenges in setting up robosquirrel. The researchers concluded that they had to redesign robosquirrel to be less complicated to set up for each new habitat.\n\nTo redesign a more field-usable robosquirrel, custom electronics were developed to reduce bulk and weight. In addition to previous features, new features were added such as onboard cameras and data logging. To reduce weight, all power sources were placed in a small box underneath robosquirrel.\n\nThe new robosquirrel design used an ATmega128 microprocessor with 4 kB of data memory and 128 kB of program memory. The microprocessor was mounted on a custom designed, two-layer printed circuit board with a DB9 serial port for RS-232 communication and an SD card slot for data storage. The circuit board also had a Joint Test Action Group port for programming and radio control hardware. The main program ran in a loop that repeatedly checked for input from the remote control.\n\nNichrome heating elements were controlled by pulse-width modulation (PWM) of transistors. Tail flagging was controlled by a 16-b counter in fast-PWM compare-match mode connected to the same Hitec servo. For this version of robosquirrel, the tail servo was mounted inside robosquirrel, allowing more realistic tail-flagging. A premade receiver–transmitter kit Radio allowed user control of robosquirrel. A camera allowed for positioning of robosquirrel relative to a rattlesnake and for monitoring of a snake.\n\nRobosquirrel was deployed at Camp Ohlone in the Sunol Regional Park in Sunol, California. This site was selected because it has large populations of ground squirrels and rattlesnakes. Seventeen snakes were captured and radio tagged so that they could be tracked. Initial results with the new robosquirrel indicated that rattlesnakes abandon their ambush sites more quickly when robosquirrel tail-flagged than when it did not as predicted.\n\nIn 2008, Senator Tom Coburn began releasing reports of what he considers wasteful federal spending. The first report was released on December 11, 2008. On December 12, 2010, Senator Coburn released the first report entitled \"Wastebook 2010: A Guide to Some of the Most Wasteful Government Spending of 2010.” On October 16, 2012, \"Wastebook 2012\" was released listing 100 instances in which over spending is claimed (note the table of contents only lists 10). The Robosquirrel project is seventh on the list.\n\nSenator Coburn's \"Wastebook\" series has been lauded as important tool for detecting wasteful federal spending and as guide for how to cut the U.S. deficit. Critics have argued that the projects listed in the \"Wastebook\" series were not reviewed by experts before inclusion, that there are many mistakes in \"Wastebook\", and that the \"Wastebook\" series is especially critical of scientific research.\n\nSenator Tom Colburn's \"Wastebook 2012\" listed robosquirrel as an example of wasteful government spending:\n\nIn this corner with a triangular-shaped head, a rattle on its tail, with a venomous bite is the rattlesnake.\n\nAnd in the other corner, whistling and chirping, covered in fur with a bushy tail, is the squirrel.\n\nThese two critters are long-time adversaries. Squirrels are frequently preyed upon by the rattlesnakes, but the snakes rarely attack squirrels who are wagging their tales. When they do, they usually miss the fast moving squirrel.\n\nBut what happens when a snake is confronted by a robot squirrel, built to look, act, and even smell like the real thing?\n\nResearchers at San Diego State University and the University of California (Davis) spent a portion of a $325,000 National Science Foundation (NSF) grant to construct a robotic squirrel named “RoboSquirrel” to answer that question….\n\nDuring these difficult fiscal times of massive deficits, paying $325,000 for a robot squirrel seems a bit squirrelly. (pp. 20–21)\n\nThe robosquirrel project was one of 10 projects listed in his October 15, 2012 press release, but it was singled out by many major news outlets as illustrated by the titles of news articles (e.g., \"Robo-squirrel, video game on government pork list\" in USA Today).\n\nThe main response to Senator Coburn's criticism that \"During these difficult fiscal times of massive deficits, paying $325,000 for a robot squirrel seems a bit squirrelly\" is that the robosquirrel (i.e., second field version) in question cost only a few hundred dollars. Most of the funding has gone toward the education of future scientists and engineers. The science and engineering in the project furthers the advancement of biorobotics and the study of animal behavior and its evolution by building on previous research using biorobotics in animal behavior research.\n\nOn July 1, 2010 (the estimated end date is June 30, 2014), the National Science Foundation began funding a research proposal by Rulon Clark (San Diego State University) and Sanjay Joshi (University of California, Davis) entitled \"Understanding predator-prey signaling interactions: the dynamics of antisnake displays in ground squirrels and kangaroo rats.\" They proposed to investigate the function and evolution of animal communication between predators and prey using robots that can interact with predators. They also stated in their proposal that their research project would support and provide training for future scientists and engineers.\n\nThe researchers reported that they were awarded $390,000 for a 4-year study in 2010 by NSF. Their universities take about one third of the funds in indirect costs, which go for overhead, for example, to building maintenance, energy costs, and scholarships for students. This leaves approximately $260,000 over four years for the research project itself. Most of these funds go towards supporting biology and engineering students who help conduct the proposed research. They estimate that of the direct and indirect budget categories in their NSF grant, nearly $273,000 or 70% of the total funds go to training and support for students. They report that 34 students have received training so far in this research project. They also report that of the funds awarded by NSF, $13,700 has or will be spent on biorobotics over the four years of this study, which is 3.5% of the total funds.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17652930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17652930", "title": "Stand Up to Cancer", "text": "Stand Up to Cancer\n\nStand Up To Cancer (SU2C) is a charitable program of the Entertainment Industry Foundation (EIF). SU2C aims to raise significant funds for translational cancer research through online and televised efforts. Central to the program is a telethon that was first televised by four major broadcast networks (ABC, NBC, CBS, FOX) in over 170 countries on September 5, 2008. SU2C raised over $100 million after that evening's broadcast. Funds collected by Stand Up To Cancer are then distributed by the American Association for Cancer Research.\n\nStand Up To Cancer was conceived of in autumn 2007, by a group of women who had been affected by cancer and believe that by merging the recourse of the media and entertainment industries into a single operation they would be able to fight against this disease in a more profound way.\n\nStand Up To Cancer was formally launched on May 27, 2008. Current members of the SU2C Council of Founders and Advisors (CFA) include Katie Couric, Sherry Lansing, Kathleen Lobb, Lisa Paulsen, Rusty Robertson, Sue Schwartz, Pamela Oas Williams, and Ellen Ziffren. All current members of the CFA were co-producers of the 2012 televised special. The late co-founder Laura Ziskin executive produced both the September 5, 2008 and September 10, 2010 broadcasts. Sung Poblete, Ph.D., R.N., has served as SU2C’s president and CEO since 2011. In the United Kingdom, Channel 4, along with Cancer Research UK, launched its own version of \"Stand Up To Cancer\" in October 2012, which has continued every year since.\n\nStand Up To Cancer aims to raise awareness and bring about an understanding that everyone is connected by cancer. The statistic used most often by SU2C is from the American Cancer Society: one out of every two men and one out of every three women will be diagnosed with cancer in their lifetime, meaning everyone is affected in some way, or will be.\n\nThe campaign has featured televised moments during World Series baseball games where fans literally \"stand up to cancer\" by rising and holding signs inscribed with the names of friends and loved ones who have struggled with the disease. \nSU2C has donated hundreds of millions of dollars since the first \"Dream Team\" was organized in 2009. The \"Dream Teams\" funded by SU2C brings researchers together from institutions and universities across the world and have been among the most productive collaborations in getting new drugs to market and many teams are funded jointly with other cancer research organizations. The research is required to be translational and include laboratory and clinical members and cannot involve more than one principal investigator from each institution. Many of these dream teams are co-sponsored by other cancer-related foundations. \n\n\nResearch led by these teams has contributed to the development of two FDA-approved treatments; palbociclib (Breast Cancer Dream Team), and abraxane plus gemcitabine (Pancreatic Cancer Dream Team). \n\nSix telethons have been broadcast in the United States and are made available to more than 190 countries. To date, more than $603 million has been pledged to support SU2C’s innovative cancer research programs. \n\nThe first Stand Up To Cancer event was held on September 5, 2008, raising over $100 million. The second was held on 10 September 2010. The third was held on 7 September 2012, and the fourth was held on 5 September 2014, presented by Gwyneth Paltrow and Katie Couric from Los Angeles. The fifth was held on 9 September 2016. The averaged combined ratings for the 2014 telethon were 1.8 from 2.1 in 2012. The sixth was broadcast on 7 September 2018.\n\nIn Canada, the 2014 telethon aired September 5, 2014 in simultaneous substitution (in many areas) with the American telethon, simultaneously on English language networks CBC Television, City, CTV and Global, as well as CHCH-DT in Hamilton, Ontario, CHEK-DT Victoria, British Columbia, and specialty channels TLN, Fight Network, Gusto TV, AMI-TV and the Hollywood Suite channels. The Canadian broadcast of the telethon benefits EIF Canada, the Canadian arm of the Entertainment Industry Foundation, with all donations benefiting cancer research in Canada.\n\nOn 19 October 2012, the Channel 4 network in the United Kingdom aired their first telethon for Stand Up To Cancer hosted by Davina McCall and Alan Carr along with Dr. Christian Jessen. A second telethon was broadcast on 17 October 2014, again hosted by McCall and Carr along with Dr. Jessen. Subsequent UK telethons, again on Channel 4, followed in 2016 and 2018.\n\nStand Up To Cancer's fundraising activities in the UK include the London 3 Peaks Challenge, which involves participants running up the stairs of Heron Tower, 30 St Mary Axe and 200 Aldersgate before abseiling down the outside of 200 Aldersgate.\n\n"}
{"id": "7154183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7154183", "title": "Styled Layer Descriptor", "text": "Styled Layer Descriptor\n\nIn cartography, a Styled Layer Descriptor (SLD) is an XML schema specified by the Open Geospatial Consortium (OGC) for describing the appearance of map layers. It is capable of describing the rendering of vector and raster data. A typical use of SLDs is to instruct a Web Map Service (WMS) how to render a specific layer. \n\nIn August 2007 the OGC split an older SLD specification into two new OGC implementation specifications:\n\nThe Styled Layer Descriptor specification now only contains the protocol for communicating with a WMS about how to style a layer. The actual description of the styling is now exclusively described in the symbology encoding implementation specification.\n\nDesktop software:\n\nServer-side software:\n\nServer-side software:\n\nClient-side software:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51115002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51115002", "title": "Subduction erosion", "text": "Subduction erosion\n\nTectonic erosion or subduction erosion is the loss of crust from an overriding tectonic plate due to subduction. Two types of tectonic erosion exist: frontal erosion at the outer margin of a plate and basal erosion at the base of the plate's crust. Basal erosion causes a thinning of the overriding plate. When frontal tectonic erosion consumes a crustal block at the outer margin it may induce a domino effect on upper crustal tectonics causing the remaining blocks to fault and tilt to fill the “gap” left by the consumed block. Subduction erosion is believed to be enhanced by high convergence rates and low sediment supply to the trench. \n\nBefore the Neoproterozoic, subduction erosion rates were probably higher than at present due to higher convergence rates. A scarcity of blueschists from this time seems to support this view. However, this assertion is arguably wrong because the earliest oceanic crust would have contained more magnesium than today's crust and, therefore, would have formed greenschist-like rocks at blueschist facies.\n\nThe following features and processes have been associated with subduction erosion:\n\n"}
{"id": "1286212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1286212", "title": "The World (archipelago)", "text": "The World (archipelago)\n\nThe World or The World Islands, located in Dubai, (Arabic: جزر العالم; \"Juzur al-Ālam\") is an artificial archipelago of various small islands constructed in the rough shape of a world map, located in the waters of the Persian Gulf, off the coast of Dubai, United Arab Emirates. The World islands are composed mainly of sand dredged from Dubai's shallow coastal waters, and are one of several artificial island developments in Dubai. The World's developer is Nakheel Properties, and the project was originally conceived by Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the ruler of Dubai. The actual construction was done by two Dutch (joint venture) specialist companies, Van Oord and Boskalis. The same companies also created the Palm Jumeirah.\n\nConstruction of the 300 islands began in 2003, only to halt due to the 2008 financial crisis. Though 60 percent of the islands had been sold off to private contractors back in 2008, development on most of these islands has failed to initiate. As of July 2012, the Lebanon Island was developed and was the only island that had so far been developed commercially, being used for private corporate events and public parties. As of late 2013, only two of the islands had been developed. In January 2014, Kleindienst Group announced the launch of \"The Heart of Europe\" project; by February 2014, one of Kleindienst Group's brands - JK Properties - announced in their monthly newsletter that the project was \"well underway\". The first of these series of islands will be Europe, Sweden and Germany with development led by Kleindienst Group.\n\nIslands in the project range from in area. Distances between islands average ; they are constructed from of sand and 386 million tons of rock. Designed by Creative Kingdom Dubai, the development is an area that covers and is surrounded by an oval-shaped breakwater island. Roughly of shoreline was created. The World's overall development costs were estimated at $13 billion CAD in 2005.\n\nThe archipelago consists of seven sets of islands; Europe, Africa, Asia, North America, South America, Antarctica, and Oceania. Each artificial islands are named for their representative regions, including those representing countries, landmarks, and regions such as the United Kingdom, California, Mount Everest, Australia, New Mexico, Upernavik, Buenos Aires, New York, Mexico, St. Petersburg and India.\n\nThe project was unveiled in May 2003 by Sheikh Mohammed and dredging began four months later in September 2003. By January 2008, 60% of the islands were sold, 20 of which were bought in the first four months of 2007. On 10 January 2008 the final stone on the breakwater was laid, completing development of the archipelago. As of July 2012, a second island, the Lebanon Island was developed and was 'the only island that has so far been developed commercially, is used for private corporate events and public parties.' \n\nThe Times Online reported in September 2009 that work on The World had been suspended due to the effects of the global financial crisis.\nAnd in February 2010 the Daily Mail reported that the islands had started sinking back into the sea. This was later denied by Nakheel and independent technical reports as wholly inaccurate. Despite the denial, The Daily Telegraph reported in January 2011 that an independent company, Penguin Marine, provided verification on the erosion of the islands and the silting of the passageways between the islands. Due to finance and technical problems, Penguin Marine, the company contracted to provide transportation to the archipelago, is attempting to get out of the annual fees of $1.6 million paid to Nakheel properties.\n\nAs of early 2011, only one of the islands had been occupied by a building (a show home) on it, and commercial or residential properties were not currently being constructed on any of the other islands. Property prices in the Emirates had fallen 58 percent from their peak in the fourth quarter of 2008.\nThe world economic recovery from the Great Recession has resulted in a rebound for the Dubai real estate market: it has been reported that \"residential prices [in Dubai] rose by 17.9% from August 2012 to 2013, while rents soared by 14.9% in the same period.\" \n\nIrish investor/businessman John O'Dolan, who purchased the \"Ireland\" island, committed suicide in February 2009, after his consortium fell into financial difficulty.\n\nThe World was supposed to be serviced by four major transportation hubs linked by waterways. Land parcels are supposedly zoned for various uses: estate, mid density, high density, resorts and commercial. A Dubai Infinity Holdings construction planner has stated that developers have been negotiating with Nakheel about temporary siting of a cement batching plant on one of the islands to supply subdivided construction.\n\nThe plan was for utilities to be routed under water, with water plants at each of the hubs pumping fresh water to the islands. Power was to be supplied by the Dubai Grid and distributed through underwater cables, however as of February 2015 no cables had been laid, so that developers currently have to provide their own power from diesel generators. Waste water and refuse systems are an individual concern for each island.\n\nNakheel Group is itself further developing a resort named Coral Island over 20 islands that make up the North American part of The World. The low-rise development will include a marina and hotel village.\nThe second largest confirmed development is the purchase of 14 islands that make up Australia and New Zealand by Investment Dar of Kuwait. The islands are being terraformed to be developed as a resort named OQYANA.\n\nIrish business consortium Larionovo had plans to develop the Ireland island into an Irish-themed resort. The plans include a large internal marina, apartments and villas, a gym, hotel, and an Irish-themed pub. In July 2007 it was announced that the Ireland Island would feature a recreation of Northern Ireland's Giant's Causeway. However, on 25 November 2008 a provisional liquidator was appointed to Larionovo. The islands of Great Britain and Moscow on The World were acquired by Premier Real Estate Bureau in the Summer of 2008. News was leaked in a Daily Mail article of January 2009, refuting claims that Great Britain was owned by Richard Branson, Rod Stewart or John O'Dolan.\n\nIn April 2008, Salya Corporation announced that it had acquired the islands of Finland and Brunei in The World and planned to develop them into fashion-themed resorts. Salya spent about Dh800 million ($218 million USD) to purchase the islands and plans to spend a further Dh2.4 billion ($654 million USD) on development. Brunei Island will be turned into a Fashion TV resort and Finland Island will be turned into a fashion community called FTV palace.\n\nSafi Qurashi, the seven-time multi-millionaire entrepreneur at the head of Premier, and his business partner Mustafa Nagri, paid an estimated $64 million USD for the piece of land; he was later convicted for non-payment of cheques and sentenced to seven years in jail. \nHowever, on appeal he was later found not guilty and released from prison in July 2012 when he was declared innocent of two of the three charges. and On the final charges the civil court final judgment showed he owed no money, was a victim of fraud and vindicated him completely by awarding 10.8 Million USD to be paid back to him by his former partner who had defrauded him. and Safi Qurashi is still the owner of GB Island and continues to live and run his businesses in Dubai and is still confident of developing the Island of GB into a unique destination.\n\nJosef Kleindienst and his firm JK Properties are developing The Heart of Europe, a collection of seven islands (Germany, Netherlands, Sweden, St. Petersburg, Main Europe, Switzerland and Monaco) in the European section of the World, into an island luxury resort. The resort is meant to create a fully immersive European experience, with outdoor snow, and stores accepting only the EURO as a currency.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10940395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10940395", "title": "Unknown World", "text": "Unknown World\n\nUnknown World (a.k.a. Night Without Stars) is a 1951 independently made, black-and-white science fiction adventure film from Lippert Pictures, produced by Irving A. Block, Jack Rabin, and Robert L. Lippert, directed by Terry O. Morse, that stars Bruce Kellogg, Marilyn Nash, Jim Bannon, and Otto Waldis.\n\n\"Unknown World\" may have been loosely inspired by Jules Verne's novel \"Journey to the Center of the Earth\" (1864) and \"At the Earth's Core\" (1914) by Edgar Rice Burroughs..\n\nThe film's storyline concerns an expedition seeking livable space deep beneath the Earth's surface in the event a nuclear war makes surface life impossible.\n\nDr. Jeremiah Morley (Victor Kilian) is concerned about an imminent nuclear war. He organizes an expedition of scientists and has them use a large atomic-powered tank-like boring machine, called the Cyclotram, capable of drilling down deep through the Earth's surface in order to find an underground environment where humanity could escape and survive a future nuclear holocaust.\n\nThe expedition (Jim Bannon, Marilyn Nash, Otto Waldis, Tom Handley, and Dick Cogan) begins after government funding has fallen through, and they are bailed out at the last minute by private funding from a newspaper heir (Bruce Kellogg), who insists on going with them as a lark. Romantic rivalry soon develops between Bannon and Kellogg for Nash, and during the dangerous underground expedition two lives are lost to the perils of their adventure.\n\nIn the end the scientists accomplish their goal and find an enormous underground expanse with a plentiful air supply, its own large ocean, and phosphorescent light. However, all the lab rabbits brought with them give birth to dead offspring. Through autopsies, it is discovered that this strange underground world has somehow rendered the rabbits, and hence any other life form, sterile. Dr. Morley is deeply depressed by this news. When an underground volcano suddenly erupts, he fails to enter the safety of the Cyclotram and quickly perishes.\n\nThe Cyclotram, carrying the remaining survivors, enters the underground ocean to avoid the eruption. They soon find themselves rising toward the surface of the upper world, having been caught up in a strong, upward-moving ocean current. They eventually break the surface near an unknown tropical island.\n\n\nPortions of \"Unknown World\" were filmed in Carlsbad Caverns, Bronson Caves, Nichols Canyon, and at Pismo Beach.\n\n\"Unknown World\" was put together by two Hollywood special effects men, Jack Rabin and Irving Block, who are two of the film's three producers.\n\nSome of the plot elements of \"Unknown World\" were reused years later in the big studio science fiction film \"The Core\" (2003).\n\nThe B-Movie Review site Million Monkey Theater found that the \"production crew try hard, and it really seems like they have an important message to tell, but the execution and polish are lacking\" \nDC Comics had a comic called Cave Carson that was similar\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6064670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6064670", "title": "Weather records in Windsor, Ontario", "text": "Weather records in Windsor, Ontario\n\nExtreme weather has been known to hit Windsor, Ontario, and the city is home to several local, national, and international weather records. They are shown below, organized chronologically (by date):\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39810730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39810730", "title": "William Samuel Furneaux", "text": "William Samuel Furneaux\n\nWilliam Samuel Furneaux (2 June 1855, Devonport – 1940) was a British science teacher and nature writer. He gained considerable fame in the 1890s and early twentieth century for his popular books dealing with butterflies, moths, pond animals, and plants found in the English countryside.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "324146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=324146", "title": "World War II combatives", "text": "World War II combatives\n\nWorld War II combatives are close quarters combat techniques, including hand-to-hand, advanced firearm point shooting methods, and weapons techniques (knife/bayonet/improvised weapons) that were taught to allied special forces in World War II by such famous instructors as Rex Applegate and William Ewart Fairbairn.\n\nDistinctions between World War II combatives and modern combatives include: 1) The former is based upon explosive high percentage gross motor strikes to vital targets, whereas the latter is based upon fine motor skill grappling. 2) The former seeks primarily to disable the enemy as quickly as possible at all costs, whereas the latter seeks primarily to build \"warrior ethos\" and the courage to close with the enemy.\n\nWorld War II combatives are rooted in British colonial history with the Shanghai Municipal Police (1854–1943), pioneers of modern SWAT, who operated in what was widely acknowledged as the most dangerous port city in the world at the time. After studying under some of the finest warriors of pre-Communist China and pre-war Japan, these officers condensed the most practical elements of these arts, combined it with elements of Shanghai gangster fighting, and field-tested their skills in over 2000 documented encounters, including over 600 lethal force engagements.\n\nUpon return to the UK and US, veterans of the Shanghai Municipal Police were tasked in training allied World War II commandos and intelligence personnel, including the British Commandos - SAS & SBS, the US/Canadian 1st Special Service Force (\"Devil's Brigade\"), the Office of Strategic Services (precursor to the CIA), the British Special Operation Executive, Marine Raider Units, and the US Army Rangers. Upon engagement with enemy personnel skilled in classical European arts and old school judo, the post-battlefield reports of the “Shanghai method” produced the highest number of documented kills of any combatives system to date.\n\n\n"}
