{"id": "42142686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42142686", "title": "2014 Winter Paralympics Parade of Nations", "text": "2014 Winter Paralympics Parade of Nations\n\nDuring the Parade of Nations at the opening ceremony of the 2014 Winter Paralympics, athletes from each participating country paraded in the Fisht Olympic Stadium, preceded by its flag. The flag was borne by a sportsperson from that country chosen either by the National Paralympic Committee or by the athletes themselves.\n\nAll nations paraded in alphabetical order of the Russian alphabet except the host country, the Russian Federation, who entered last.\n\nThe following is a list of all parading countries with their respective flag bearer, sorted in the order they appeared in the parade. This is sortable by country name under which they entered, the flag bearer's name, or the flag bearer's sport. Names are given as were officially designated by the IPC.\n\n"}
{"id": "913763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=913763", "title": "Aaron Friedberg", "text": "Aaron Friedberg\n\nAaron Louis Friedberg (born April 16, 1956) served from 2003 to 2005 in the office of the Vice President of the United States as deputy assistant for national-security affairs and director of policy planning.\n\nAfter receiving his PhD in Government from Harvard, Friedberg joined the Princeton University faculty in 1987 and was appointed professor of politics and international affairs in 1999. He has served as Director of Princeton's Research Program in International Security at the Woodrow Wilson School as well as Acting Director of the Center of International Studies at Princeton. Friedberg is a former fellow at the Smithsonian Institution’s Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, the Norwegian Nobel Institute, and Harvard University’s Center for International Affairs. He also serves as Chairman of the Board of Counselors for the National Bureau of Asian Research's Pyle Center for Northeast Asian Studies.\n\nIn September 2001, Friedberg began a nine-month residential appointment as the first Henry Alfred Kissinger Scholar at the Library of Congress. During his tenure he researched \"the rise of Asia and its implications for America.\" Apart from many articles for \"Commentary\" magazine, Friedberg has written several books on foreign relations. \n\nHe was one of the signers of the Project for the New American Century (PNAC) documents \"Statement of Principles\" (June 3, 1997) and a letter on terrorism submitted to President George W. Bush (September 20, 2001). His name has been connected to the Aspen Strategy Group at the Aspen Institute.\n\nFriedberg represented the Romney campaign in his capacity as the campaign's National Security Advisor during a debate on US policy toward China in October 2012.\n\nAlthough Friedberg's international relations philosophy is rooted in concern for the structural organization of power characteristic of the realist school of international relations, he draws from many of the traditions of liberal institutionalism, resulting in what scholar Thomas Christensen has termed a \"positive-sum\" stance on international relations. Hence, unlike more pessimistic realist scholars, Friedberg, in a seminal article published in International Security in 1993, advocated continued U.S. engagement in East Asia to serve as a stabilizing force until regional economic integration and multilateral institutions had time to develop. Thus, in contrast to traditional realpolitik scholars, Friedberg believes that conflict is not inevitable in East Asia as China continues to develop as long as multilateral institutions and economic integration are used as tools to manage security dilemmas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10499608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10499608", "title": "Abāmūn of Tukh", "text": "Abāmūn of Tukh\n\nAbāmūn of Toukh is a Coptic Egyptian martyr known only from a mention of him in the \"Synaxarion\" of Mikhail of Atrib. His feast day is 20 July (13 Abib).\n\nHe was from Toukh in the diocese of Banha. He is said to have been visited by the archangel Michael, who told Abāmūn that he would be martyred at Ansena. Abamun traveled to Ansena, There he was tortured by the governor Eukhious by a variety of means, including the rack, fire, red-hot irons, flogging, flaying, and the furnace) before he was finally beheaded. He is also said to have worked a number of miracles.\n\nAfter his execution, another Christian, Julius of Aqfahs, wrapped the body in cloths and had it carried back to his homeland, Toukh. Vagaries of translation have led some to believe that Mikhail went on to imply that Abāmūn's body had been taken there immediately, although other translators have made it clear that the intended meaning was more likely that the body was moved from Toukh sometime in the thirteenth century.\n\nAbu Salih the Armenian records that in the thirteenth century there was a church dedicated to Abamūn (note the spelling difference) at El-Bahnasa. He went on to say that he himself was not sure whether the church was dedicated to Abāmūn of Ṭoukh or his namesake Abāmūn of Tarnūt.\n\nThe evidence available makes it seem more likely that it was named after Abāmūn of Ṭoukh, for several reasons. One is that Julius of Aqfahs personally took care of this martyr's body, but not the other's. Another is that Mikhail specifically mentions that this Abāmūn was at the time of his writing in the Said, which indicates that there was a cult extant at the time venerating this Abāmūn, but not the other. Lastly, there is the existing reference to this individual working a number of miracles, with no such reference made to any miracle by the other Abamun.\n\nAtiya, Aziz S. \"The Coptic Encyclopedia.\" New York: Macmillan Publishing Co., 1991. \n"}
{"id": "27718514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27718514", "title": "Ady Gil", "text": "Ady Gil\n\nAdy Gil is an Israeli animal rights activist living in Hollywood, California, United States of America. He is a vegan. Gil was raised in Ramat Gan, he joined the Israel Air Force from where he retired at the age of 22. He emigrated to USA. There in partnership with Erez Ram, also a veteran of the Israeli Defence Forces, he founded in 1992, American Hi Definition Inc, a company involved in high definition big screen video projection. In 1997 with Erez Ram and Joe Shckelford they started another company , Sweetwater Digital. In November 2010, the companies were acquired by NEP Broadcasting. After this sale Gil became a full time animal rights activist. He donated USD 6 million to his organization Ady Gil World Conservation. Gil set up a shelter for cats and dogs in Los Angeles and paid for sterilization of 6000 cats in Israel. He built a large roosting structure for eagles in a wildlife sanctuary on Mount Carmel. Gil donated millions to Sea Shepherd Conservation Society to refurbish a ship for use for its anti-whaling campaigns, the ship was given his name Ady Gil, the ship suffered sinking 290 km from Antarctica as a result of an incident with the Japanese ship Shonan Maru No 2 used for killing whales. The loss of the ship has been the subject of litigation between Gil and Paul Watson founder and director of Sea Shepherd Conservation Society. In December 2014, Gil paid USD 2 million to rescue 1300 monkeys from a facility that bred them so that they would not be exported to the United States for being subjected to experiments that maimed and killed them.\n"}
{"id": "40250508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40250508", "title": "Arancha Gonzalez", "text": "Arancha Gonzalez\n\nArancha González Laya (born 22 May 1969) is a Spanish economist and currently the Executive Director of the International Trade Centre, the joint agency of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development and the World Trade Organization. She was appointed to this position in August 2013.\n\nGonzález began her career in the private sector as an associate at German law firm Bruckhaus Westrick Stegemann advising companies on trade, competition and state aid matters. \n\nBetween 2002 and 2005 González was the European Commission Spokeswoman for Trade and adviser to the European Commissioner Pascal Lamy. She subsequently served in various capacities in the European Commission in the area of international trade, including negotiations of trade agreements between the EU and Mercosur, Iran, the Gulf Cooperation Council, the Balkans and Mediterranean countries. She has also assisted developing countries in benefiting from trading opportunities in Europe. \n\nGonzález served as Chief of Staff Pascal Lamy in his role as WTO Director General between 2005 and 2013. In that capacity she was intimately involved in setting up the WTO's Aid for Trade initiative as well as the Enhanced Integrated Framework, a joint venture of several international organisations helping to build trade capacity in the world's poorest countries. She served as WTO Director-General's representative (Sherpa) at the G-20.\n\nGonzález has been an outspoken advocate for Spanish unity and dialogue on the Catalan independence issue.\n\nArancha González teaches on trade and development at the College of Europe (Bruges), the IELPO (Barcelona), the World Trade Institute (WTI) and the Shanghai Institute of Foreign Trade.\n\n"}
{"id": "52709430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52709430", "title": "Carola Lorenzini", "text": "Carola Lorenzini\n\nCarolina (Carola) Elena Lorenzini (15 August 1889 – 23 November 1941) was a pioneer Argentine aviator. \nLorenzini was born in Buenos Aires, Argentina, the seventh of eight children. She worked as a typist at the Unión Telefónica Company, and enjoyed participating in sports such as rowing, javelin, athletics and hockey. In 1933 she started learning to fly at the Aeroclub de Morón. The lessons were expensive, and she had to use all her savings, and sell her bicycle and encyclopedia, to pay. In March 1935 she earnt her pilot's license. The same year, she broke the South American record for altitude, flying to 5,700 metres. She also entered and won several flying races, and became interested in high aerobatics, enrolling in a course on the subject. She became famous for her skill in performing inverted loops, an advanced maneouvre which only one other aviator, her instructor Santiago Germanó, was able to perform. \n\nFrom 1938 to 1940, Lorenzini was involved in an air exploration mission to fly all of Argentina's 14 provinces and make aerial maps for transport and mail flights. She flew to every town and city in the country, annotating maps as she travelled. As a result, she became nationally famous; in 1939 the magazine \"Vosotras\" named Lorenzini one of Argentina's eight women of the year, and in 1940 she featured on the cover of \"El Grafico\" magazine. \n\nOn 23 November 1941 Lorenzini lost control of her aircraft, a Focke-Wulf, while conducting her famous inverted loop, and crashed. She was killed immediately. The accident happened in Morón during an aerobatics exhibition for a visiting group of Uruguayan aviators. It was later reported that Lorenzini had been flying an aircraft she was unfamiliar with and that she had been extremely angry on the day of the exhibition due to an ongoing issue with the organisers of the event. \n\nIn 2001, the Argentine post office issued a postage stamp bearing Lorenzini's image and name. \n"}
{"id": "2450348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2450348", "title": "Christopher Airy", "text": "Christopher Airy\n\nMajor General Sir Christopher John Airy, (born 8 March 1934) is a retired British Army officer who served as General Officer Commanding the London District and Major-General commanding the Household Division from 1986 to 1989.\n\nEducated at Marlborough College and the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst, Airy was commissioned into the Grenadier Guards in 1954.\n\nAiry became Personal Military Assistant to the Secretary of State for War in 1960, Deputy Assistant Adjutant-General and Regimental Adjutant in 1967 and Brigade Major of 4th Guards Brigade in 1971. In 1974 he transferred to the Scots Guards in 1974 on appointment as Commanding Officer of the 1st Battalion of the Scots Guards. Two years later he became Military Assistant to the Master-General of the Ordnance.\n\nIn 1979 he became Commander of the 5th Field Force, and in 1982 Assistant Chief of Staff at United Kingdom Land Forces.\n\nPromoted to major-general in 1983, he served at the Royal College of Defence Studies, before becoming Major-General commanding the Household Division and General Officer Commanding London District in 1986. He retired in 1989.\n\nIn 1990 he was appointed as Private Secretary and Treasurer to the Prince and Princess of Wales, remaining in office for slightly under a year, and was made an Extra Equerry to the Prince of Wales in 1991. He was appointed a Commander of the Order of the British Empire in 1984, and a Knight Commander of the Royal Victorian Order in 1989.\n\nAiry married Judith Stephenson in 1959 and has one son and two daughters. His daughter-in-law Lucinda is a granddaughter of Edward Clive Bigham, 3rd Viscount Mersey and Katherine Petty-FitzMaurice, Lady Nairne, eldest daughter of the 6th Marquess of Lansdowne.\n"}
{"id": "25461632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25461632", "title": "Claire Lacombe", "text": "Claire Lacombe\n\nClaire Lacombe (4 August 1765-?) was a French actress and revolutionary. She is best known for her contributions during the French Revolution. Though it was only for a few years, Lacombe was a revolutionary and a founding member of the Society of Revolutionary Republican Women.\n\nLacombe was born in the provincial town of Pamiers in southwestern France. She became an actress at a young age and appeared in theatrical productions in the provinces before arriving in Paris in 1792. She was not an outstanding success in the theater, and she was not entirely happy with her life. The acting company that Lacombe worked for moved from town to town and sometimes went to castles and the country houses of aristocrats. This probably had an influence in her decision to quit the company to become a revolutionary.\n\nIn Paris during the insurrection of 10 August 1792, Lacombe fought with the rebels during the storming of the Tuileries. She was shot through the arm but kept fighting on, earning herself the lifelong sobriquet, \"Heroine of August Tenth. \" For her bravery, she was awarded a civic crown by the victorious \"fédérés\".\n\nLacombe became a frequent attendee at meetings of the Cordeliers Club through which she became involved with the most radical elements of the Revolution. In February, 1793, Lacombe and another female revolutionary, Pauline Léon, founded the Society of Revolutionary Republican Women. Composed chiefly of working-class women, the Society associated with the most militant sans-culottes and \"enragés\". They functioned partly as a fighting force among the market women of Paris, and employed violent tactics to root out anti-revolutionaries.\n\nDespite the deeply entrenched chauvinism of the time, Lacombe met a few revolutionary men who fought for women's rights. One of these was Théophile Leclerc, with whom she lived for a while, until he left her to marry Pauline Léon.\n\nUnder the Reign of Terror, the \"enragés\" were suppressed along with most other extremist groups, including the Society of Revolutionary Republican Women. Lacombe's group had been so notorious that the National Convention specifically banned women's organizations (30 October 1793).\n\nBarred from any political activity, Lacombe considered returning to her acting career. In April 1794, she was arrested as she prepared to leave for a theater in Dunkirk.\n\nLacombe was finally released from prison on 20 August 1795 (by order of 18 August 1795 signed by the Committee of General Security). She went back to the theater but quit again after three months, and settled into a life of unrecorded obscurity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1641992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1641992", "title": "Claire Wolfe", "text": "Claire Wolfe\n\nClaire Wolfe is a libertarian author and columnist. Some of Wolfe's favored topics are gulching or homesteading, firearms, homeschooling, open source technology, and opposition to national ID and the surveillance state or nanny state.\n\nWolfe's books include such titles as \"101 Things to Do 'Til the Revolution\" and \"I Am Not a Number!\". Wolfe also writes or has written for a number of magazines, notably Backwoods Home Magazine, S.W.A.T. magazine, and DGC Magazine, which covers electronic, metal-backed currencies. A common subject in Wolfe's writing has been the fictional town of Hardyville, a rural libertarian enclave populated by stereotypical characters (Dora-the-Yalie, Bob-the-Nerd, Carty-the-Marine, etc.). When not writing, Wolfe is also an artist specializing in pastel portraits of people and animals and makes and sells jewelry and kaleidoscopes.\n\nWolfe's first book, \"101 Things to Do 'Til the Revolution\", was the result of disillusionment with the voting record of Republican Linda Smith of Washington, whose congressional campaign Wolfe had supported in 1994. The book advocated a radical libertarian stance, opposed both major political parties, and encouraged self-sufficiency and actions to minimize the influence of the government in the life of the individual, as well as ideas for monkeywrenching. It was published by Loompanics Unlimited and became an underground bestseller.\n\nWolfe wrote a column for WorldNetDaily in the late 1990s and has written and blogged irregularly since then. \"The Freedom Outlaw's Handbook\" (2004) is a compilation of ideas from Wolfe's first two books, both of which are now out of print.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8215189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8215189", "title": "Croats of Bosnia and Herzegovina", "text": "Croats of Bosnia and Herzegovina\n\nThe Croats of Bosnia and Herzegovina, often referred to as the Bosnian Croats, are the third most populous ethnic group in that country after Bosniaks and Serbs, and are one of the constitutive nations of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Croats of Bosnia and Herzegovina have made significant contributions to the culture of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Most Croats declare themselves Roman Catholics and speakers of Croatian.\n\nFrom the 15th to the 19th century, Catholics in modern-day Bosnia and Herzegovina were often persecuted under the Ottoman Empire, causing many of them to flee the area. In the 20th century, political turmoil and poor economic conditions caused more to emigrate. Ethnic cleansing within Bosnia and Herzegovina in the 1990s saw Croats forced to different parts of Bosnia-Herzegovina, although having lived in numerous regions prior to the Bosnian War. According to the report by the Bosnia and Herzegovina statistics office, on the census of 2013 there were 544,780 Croats living in Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\nCroats settled the areas of modern Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina in the 7th century. There, they assimilated with native Illyrians and Romans during the great migration of the Slavs. The Croats adopted Christianity and began to develop their own culture, art, and political institutions, culminating in their own kingdom, which consisted of two principalities: Pannonian Croatia in the north, and Dalmatian Croatia in the south. Red Croatia, to the south, was land of a few minor states. One of the most important events of the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the early Middle Ages is the First Croatian Assembly held in 753 in Županjac (present-day Tomislavgrad). The second major event was the coronation of Tomislav, the first King of Croatia, in ca. 925, in the fields of Županjac. By this act, Pannonian Croatia and Dalmatian Croatia formed a united Croatian kingdom, which included Dalmatia and part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Pannonia (eastern Slavonia and northeastern Bosnia), and Savia (western Slavonia).\n\nIn 1102 Croatia entered into a union with the Kingdom of Hungary. After this, Bosnia, which was earlier part of the Kingdom of Croatia, started to disassociate with Croatia. At first, Bosnia became a separate principality under Ban Kulin who managed to solidify Bosnian autonomy at the expense of more powerful neighbours, but only in the 14th century did Bosnia become a formidable state. In the 14th century, King Tvrtko I conquered part of western Serbia and later part of the Kingdom of Croatia, which he accomplished by defeating various Croatian nobles and supporting Hungary. Thus, the Kingdom of Bosnia emerged, but part of present territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina remained in the Kingdom of Hungary.\n\nRegarding religion, Bosnia was closer to Croatia than the Orthodox lands to the east, and the Diocese of Bosnia is mentioned as Catholic in the 11th century, and later fell under the jurisdiction of the Archdiocese of Split and in the 12th Century under the jurisdiction of the Diocese of Dubrovnik. Another connection of Bosnia with Croatia is that Bosnian rulers always used the political title \"Ban Kulin\" in similarity with their Croatian counterparts. The specific religion in medieval Bosnia was Bogomilism and Bosnian Church, so some of the notable feudal lords in Medieval Bosnia were followers of this religion, such as Duke Hrvoje Hrvatinić. Due to the scarcity of historical records, there are no definite figures dealing with the religious composition of medieval Bosnia. However, some Croat scholars suggest that a majority of Bosnia's medieval population were Catholics who, according to Zlopaša, accounted for 700,000 of 900,000 of the total Bosnian population. Some 100,000 were Bogomils and other 100,000 were Orthodox Christians.\n\nIn the middle of the 15th century, the Ottoman Empire started to conquer Bosnia. In 1451 they took Vrhbosna province and conquered Bosnia in 1463. Herzegovina was conquered in 1481, while northern Bosnia was still under Hungary and Croatia until 1527, when it was conquered by the Ottomans. After the Turkish conquest, many Catholic Bosnians converted to Islam, and their numbers in some areas shrank as many fled from fear of conversion and persecution. The Ottoman conquest changed the demographics of Bosnia and Herzegovina, reducing the number of Catholics, and eliminating the Bosnian Church, whose members apparently converted to Islam \"en masse\". The present-day boundaries of Bosnia and Herzegovina were made in 1699, when the Treaty of Karlowitz was signed in order to establish peace between the Austrian Empire and the Ottoman Empire. Another significant event for Bosnian Croats is the boundary established by an agreement between the Republic of Ragusa and the Ottoman Empire, where Ragusans promised to give in part of their territory in Neum to the Ottomans in order to protect themselves from the Republic of Venice.\n\nThe activity of the Catholic Church was limited, while the Ottomans preferred the Orthodox Church because Catholicism was the faith of Austria, the Ottoman enemies, while Orthodoxy was common in Bosnia, and thus it was more acceptable to the Ottomans. In the first 50 years of Ottoman rule, many Catholics fled from Bosnia. A number of Catholics also converted to Orthodox Christianity. Franciscans were only Catholic priests to be active in Bosnia. Before the Ottomans arrived in Bosnia, there was 35 Franciscan monasteries in Bosnia and four in Herzegovina. Some monasteries were destroyed and some were converted to mosques. In the 1680s there were only 10 Franciscan monasteries left in Bosnia. The Catholic Church in Bosnia divided its administration into two dioceses, one was the Croatian Bosnia diocese, part which was not conquered by the Ottomans, and other was Bosna Srebrena diocese.\n\nBetween 1516 and 1524, a planned persecution and forced Islamization of Catholics occurred in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In that year, Franciscan monasteries in Kraljeva Sutjeska, Visoko, Fojnica, Kreševo and Konjic, and later in Mostar. It is believed that during that time, some 100,000 Croats converted to Islam. In 1528 the Ottomans conquered Jajce and Banja Luka, thus destroying the Croatian defence line on Vrbas river. After that conquest, Croatia reduced to around 37,000 km². During the 18th century, Turkish rule in Bosnia and Herzegovina started to weaken, and after the Napoleonic Wars their rule rapidly decreased; the Ottoman Empire lost its demographic, civilization, and other reserves for military and territorial expansion, while the Austrian Empire, as the rest of the European countries, gained them.\n\nFrom 1815 to 1878 the Ottoman's authority in Bosnia and Herzegovina was decreasing. After the reorganization of the Ottoman army and abolition of the Jannisaries, Bosnian nobility revolted, led by Husein Gradaščević, who wanted to establish autonomy in Bosnia and Herzegovina and to stop any further social reforms. During the 19th Century, various reforms were made in order to increase freedom of religion which sharpened relations between of Catholics and Muslims in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Soon, economic decay would happen and nationalist influence from Europe came to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Since the state administration was very disorganized and the national conscience was very strong among the Christian population, the Ottoman Empire lost control over Bosnia and Herzegovina. On 19 June 1875 Catholic Croats, led by Don Ivan Musić, revolted because of high taxes in West Herzegovina. Their goal was to subordinate Bosnia to the rule of the Emperor of Austria, respectively King of Croatia. During the revolt, for the first time Bosnian Croats used the flag of Croatia. Soon after, the Orthodox population in East Herzegovina also revolted, which led to the Herzegovina Uprising. The Ottoman authorities were unable to defeat the rebels, so Serbia and Montenegro took advantage of this weakness and attacked the Ottoman Empire in 1876, soon after the Russian Empire did the same. The Turks lost the war in 1878, and this resulted in over 150,000 refugees who went to Croatia. After the Congress of Berlin was held in same year, Bosnia and Herzegovina was transferred to the Austro-Hungarian Empire.\n\nEven after the fall of the Ottoman rule, the population of Bosnia and Herzegovina was divided. In the Habsburg Kingdom of Croatia, Croatian politicians strived for the unification of the Kingdom of Dalmatia with Croatia. Another ambition of Croatian politicians was to incorporate the Condominium of Bosnia and Herzegovina into the Kingdom of Croatia. The Habsburg Governor Béni Kállay resorted to co-opt religious institutions. Soon, the Austrian Emperor gained support to name Orthodox metropolitans and Catholic bishops and to choose Muslim hierarchy. The first Catholic archbishop was Josip Stadler. Both apostolic vicarates, Bosnian and Herzegovinian, were abolished, and instead three dioceses were founded; Vrhbosna diocese with a seat in Sarajevo, Banja Luka diocese with a seat in Banja Luka and Mostar-Duvno diocese with a seat in Mostar .\n\nAt the time, Bosnia and Herzegovina was facing a Habsburg attempt at modernization. Between 180,000 and 200,000 people inhabited Bosnia and Herzegovina, the majority were Croats, Serbs, Muslims and in smaller percentages Slovenes, Czechs and others. During this period, the most significant event is Bosnian entry to European political life and the shaping of ethnic Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina into a modern nation. At the end of the 19th century, Bosnian Croats founded various reading, cultural and singing societies, and at the beginning of the 20th century, a new Bosnian Croat intelligentsia played a major role in the political life of Croats. The Croatian Support Society for Needs of Students of Middle Schools and High Schools in Bosnia and Herzegovina was founded in 1902, and in 1907 it was merged with Croatian Society for Education of Children in Craft and Trade, also founded in 1902, into Croatian Cultural Society Napredak (Progress). Napredak educated and gave scholarships to more than 20,000 students. Students of Napredak were not only Bosnian Croats, but also Croats from other regions.\n\nKallay tried to unify all Bosnians into a single nation of Bosniaks, but he failed to do so after Bosnians created their national political parties. Before the annexation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1908, the Croat People's Union (HNZ) become a political party; its ideology was very similar to that of the Croatian-Serbian Coalition in Croatia. In 1909, Stadler opposed such a policy and founded a new political party, the Croat Catholic Association (HKU), an opponent of the secular HNZ. HKU emphasized clerical ideals and religious exclusivity. However, Bosnian Croats mostly supported the secular nationalist policy of the HNZ. HNZ and Muslim Nation Organization formed a coalition which ruled the country from 1911 until the dissolution of the Bosnian parliament in 1914.\n\nAfter World War I, Bosnia and Herzegovina became part of the internationally unrecognized State of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs which existed between October and December 1918. In December 1918, this state united with the Kingdom of Serbia as Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes,which was renamed the Kingdom of Yugoslavia in 1929. This new state was characterized by Serbian nationalism, and was a form of \"Greater Serbia\". Serbs held control over armed forces and politics of the state. With around 40% Serbs living in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbian leadership of the state wanted to implement a Serbian hegemony in this region. Bosnian Croats constituted around a quarter of the total Bosnian population, but they did not have a single municipality president. The regime of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia was characterized by limited parliamentarism, drastic elective manipulations and later King Alexander's 6 January Dictatorship, state robbery present outside Serbia and political killings (Milan Šufflay, Ivo Pilar) and corruption. Yugoslavia was preoccupied with political struggles, which led to the collapse of the state after Dušan Simović organized a coup in March 1941 and after which Nazi Germany invaded Yugoslavia.\n\nKing Alexander was killed in 1934, which led to the end of dictatorship. In 1939, faced with killings, corruption scandals, violence and the failure of centralized policy, the Serbian leadership agreed a compromise with Croats. On 24 August 1939, the president of the Croatian Peasant Party, Vladko Maček and Dragiša Cvetković made an agreement (\"Cvetković-Maček agreement\") according to which Banovina of Croatia was created on territory of Sava and Littoral Banovina and on districts of Dubrovnik, Šid, Brčko, Ilok, Gradačac, Derventa, Travnik and Fojnica. Around 30% of the present-day territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina become part of Banovina of Croatia. Those parts had a Croatian majority. Creation of Banovina of Croatia was one of the solutions to the \"Croatian issue\".\n\nAfter the collapse of Yugoslavia amidst German and Italian invasion in April 1941, the Axis puppet state which encompassed the entire Bosnia and Herzegovina, Independent State of Croatia (NDH) under the radical Croat nationalist ustaša regime was established. Bosnian Croats were divided, as some supported NDH, some actively opposed it by joining or supporting the Yugoslav Partisans, while others chose to wait, not attracted either by fascist ustaše or communist-led resistance. After ustaše campaign of ethnic cleansing and terror, targeting Serbs, Jews, and Roma, a brutal civil war ensued. Ustaše regime also persecuted any opponents or dissidents among Bosnian Croats, especially communists, pre-war members of the now-banned Croatian Peasant Party, and those connected with the partisan resistance. Ustaše executed many Bosnian Croats, for instance, resistance fighters and supporters Jakov Dugandžić, Mostar's Ljubo Brešan and 19-year old Mostar gymnasium student Ante Zuanić, as well as a prominent Mostar CPP member Blaž Slišković (in Jasenovac concentration camp). Prominent Croat communist intellectual from Bosnia, Ognjen Prica, was shot by Ustaše in Kerestinec prison. Families of Bosnian Croats who left to join the partisan resistance were usually interned or sent to concentration camps by ustase authorities.\n\nNumerous Bosnian Croats joined the partisan movement, fighting against the Axis forces and ustaše regime. Some of them included people's heroes such as Franjo Kluz, Ivan Marković Irac, Stipe Đerek, Karlo Batko, Ante Šarić \"Rade Španac\" and others. From the very beginning of the uprising against the Axis, many Bosnian Croats became commanders of partisan units, even as the units were predominantly Serb ones (e.g., Josip Mažar-Šoša, Ivica Marušić-Ratko etc.). At the end of 1977, 8.8% of Bosnian recipients of veteran's pensions were Croats, while during the WWII Croats composed around 23% of the country's population. The territory that partisans liberated and managed to keep under their control from November 1942 to January 1943 (dubbed the \"Republic of Bihać\") included all of rural Western Herzegovina west of Neretva and Široki Brijeg, including Livno. Livno and its area, under partisan control from August to October 1942, was very important for Bosnian Croat resistance, as key CPP members Florijan Sučić and Ivan Pelivan joined the resistance and mobilized many other Croats. Bosnian Croats' representatives, among which Mostar lawyer Cvitan Spužević, also actively participated in the provisional assembly of the country, ZAVNOBiH (State Anti-fascist Council for the National Liberation of Bosnia and Herzegovina). ZAVNOBiH proclaimed the statehood of Bosnia-Herzegovina and equality of Bosniaks, Croats and Serbs in the country in its historic session in 1943.\n\nAfter the partisans liberated most of Yugoslavia and NDH collapsed in May 1945, some NDH soldiers and civilians retreated to the British-occupied zone in Austria near Bleiburg. Many of them were killed in reprisals by the Yugoslav partisans in an event remembered as the Bleiburg massacre. In the closing stages of the war and the immediate aftermath, some Bosnian Croats who previously supported the ustaše regime or were merely perceived as potential opponents of the new communist Yugoslavia were persecuted or executed (notably, Herzegovina friars).\n\nTotal casualties and losses of Bosnian Croats in the WWII and the aftermath are estimated at 64-79.000. According to Vladimir Žerjavić, 17.000 Bosnian Croats died in partisan ranks, 22.000 in NDH forces, while 25.000 lost their lives as civilians; of civilians, almost ¾ or 19.000 died as a result of Axis terror or in ustaše concentration camps.\n\nAfter the war, Bosnia and Herzegovina became one of the 6 constitutive republics of Socialist Yugoslavia. Intensive state campaign of nationalization of property, followed by industrialization and urbanization variously affected Bosnian Croats. While some centers and areas prospered, other rural areas underwent depopulation and urban flight, as well as (most notably western Herzegovina) high rates of emigration to the Western world.\n\nOffice holders usually rotated among the three ethnic communities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In the 1980s, many Bosnian Croat politicians were in high positions - for instance, Ante Marković, Branko Mikulić, and Mato Andrić.\n\nCitizens of the Socialist Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina voted for the independence of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the referendum that was held between 29 February and 1 March 1992. The referendum question was: \"Are you in favor of a sovereign and independent Bosnia-Herzegovina, a state of equal citizens and nations of Muslims, Serbs, Croats and others who live in it?\" Independence was strongly favoured by Bosniak and Bosnian Croat voters, but the referendum was largely boycotted by Bosnian Serbs. The total turn out of voters was 63.6% of which 99.7% voted for the independence of Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\nOn 5 April 1992, Serb forces started the Siege of Sarajevo. On 12 May, Yugoslav People's Army left Bosnia and Herzegovina and left most of the arms to the Army of Republika Srpska, headed by Ratko Mladić. The first unit to oppose Serb forces in Bosnia and Herzegovina was the Croatian Defence Forces (HOS) founded by Croatian Party of Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina on 18 December 1991. The Croatian Community of Herzeg-Bosnia established its own force, the Croatian Defence Council (HVO) on 8 April 1992. HVO consisted from 20-30% of Bosniaks who joined HVO because local Muslim militias were unable to arm themselves. Croatian Community of Herzeg-Bosnia was founded on 18 November 1991 as a community of municipalities where majority of population were Croats. In its founding acts, Herzeg-Bosnia had no separatist character. The Croatian Republic of Herzeg-Bosnia was declared by the Bosnian Croat leadership as a temporary region, which after war ended, would again become part of a united Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\nAt the beginning of the Bosnian War, Bosnian Croats were first to organize themselves, especially Croats in western Herzegovina who were already armed. At the end of May 1992, Croats launched a counter-offensive, liberating Mostar after a month of fighting. Also, in central Bosnia and Posavina, Croatian forces stopped the Serbian advance, and in some places they repelled the enemy. On 16 June 1992, President of Croatia, Franjo Tuđman and President of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Alija Izetbegović signed an alliance according to which, Bosnia and Herzegovina legalized the activity of Croatian Army and Croatian Defence Council on its territory. Bosnian Croat political leadership and the leadership of Croatia urged Izetbegović to form a confederation between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, but Izetbegović denied this since he tried to represent Serbian interests as well as those of Bosniaks and Croats. The Bosnian Croat leadership was irritated by Izetbegović's neutrality, so Mate Boban threatened to pull back the HVO from actions in Bosnia. Since the UN implemented embargo to Bosnia and Herzegovina on the import of arms, Bosniak and Croat forces had difficulties fighting Serbian units, which were supplied with arms from the Middle East, just before the outbreak of war. However, after Croat and Bosniak forces reorganized in late May 1992, the Serbian advance was halted and their forces mostly remained in their positions during the war. The tensions between Croats and Bosniaks started on 19 June 1992, but the real war began in October.\n\nThe Croat-Bosniak War was at its peak during 1993. In March 1994, the Bosniak and Croat leadership signed the Washington agreement, according to which, the Army of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina (ARBiH)-controlled and HVO-controlled areas were united into the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. After the Washington agreement was signed, the Croatian Army, HVO and ARBiH liberated southwestern Bosnia and Herzegovina in seven military operations. In December 1995, the Bosnian War ended with the signing of the Dayton agreement. However, the same agreement caused problem in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and was largely ineffective. According to the information published by the Research and Documentation Centre in Sarajevo, 7,762 Croats were killed or missing. From the territory of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 230,000 Croats were expelled, while from territory of Republika Srpska, 152,856 Croats were expelled.\n\nComprising 15.43% of the country's population, Croats have been unequally spread across the area of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This has further been reflected and reinforced by the post-1995 political division of the country. Currently, according to the 2013 census, 91% of them live in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, while just 5.4% and 3.2% live in Republika Srpska and Brčko District, respectively. In RS, Croat share in the entity population is just 2% (29,645), while in Brčko it stands at 20.7% (17,252). On the other hand, in the Federation Croats form 22.4% of the entity population. Four out of ten Federation's cantons have Croat majority. All Croat-majority municipalities are located in this entity as well.\n\nHowever, Croats are further variously spread in the Federation itself. Most of the municipalities with a clear Croat majority form two compact regions. One is in the southwest of the country, along the border with Croatia, from Kupres and Livno in the northwest along West Herzegovina to Ravno in the southeast (Široki Brijeg, Ljubuški, Livno, Čitluk, Tomislavgrad, Čapljina, Posušje, Grude, Prozor-Rama, Stolac, Neum, Kupres, Ravno). Around 40% of country's and 45% of Federation's Croats live here. The second is Posavina Canton in the north (Orašje, Odžak, Domaljevac-Šamac). This canton's share in the Croat population is 6%. Other Croat-majority or -plurality municipalities are enclaves in Central Bosnia and around Zenica (Dobretići, Vitez, Busovača, Kiseljak, Usora, Kreševo, Žepče). In ethnically mixed Jajce and Novi Travnik in Central Bosnia, Croats form around half of the population.\n\nIn Mostar area, Croats comprise the plurality of the population both in the municipality (48.4%) and the city itself (49%). Mostar is the largest city in Herzegovina and the city with the largest Croat population in the country (51,216 in the area and 29,475 in the urban district). Croats comprise an overwhelming majority in the western part of both the city and the entire municipality.\n\nCroats comprise 41% of the population in Uskoplje, a third in Vareš and Pelagićevo, and a quarter in Glamoč and Donji Žabar. In Grahovo, Croats make around 15% of the population.\n\nIn addition to that, 762 Croats form the plurality (40.4%) in an ethnically diverse small town Glamoč.\n\nThere are 4 Croat-majority cantons and in total 6 cantons in which Croats form more than 10% of the population.\n\nSome estimates state that the population of medieval Bosnia, was between 850,000 - 900,000 inhabitants, of which 750,000 were Catholics (85,22%), 80,000 were Bogomils (9,09%) and 50,000 were Orthodox Christians (5,68%). During the Ottoman rule, the number of Catholics decreased drastically. When the Turks conquered Bosnia in 1463, according to their data, they took 100,000 Catholics into captivity and 30,000 Catholic boys to serve as janissaries. In 1558/59, in present-day Bosnia and Herzegovina, there were 360,000 Catholics (57%), 220,000 Muslims (34%) and 55,000 Orthodox Christians (9%). Many Catholics fled to Venetian or Habsburg-ruled lands. In 1624, there was around 450,000 Muslims (67%), 150,000 Catholics (22%) and 75,000 Orthodox Christians (11%). In 1776, according to Klaić, there were around 50,000 Catholics in Bosnia. However, the Turkish censuses were biased, and they only numbered the houses and later exclusively included the male population. Throughout this period, Catholic majority persisted in the southwest of the country (western Herzegovina), parts of central Bosnia, and Posavina, mostly in rural areas.\n\nDuring Austro-Hungarian rule (1878–1918), the number and share of Croats started to slowly increase. Croats from Croatia moved to the country to work in the austro-Hungarian administration or as teachers, doctors and officers. According to the Croatian author Vjekoslav Klaić, at the beginning of the period, in 1878, there were 646,678 Orthodox Christians (respectively Serbs, 48.4%), 480,596 Muslims (35.9%), 207,199 Catholics (respectively Croats, 15.5%) and 3,000 Jews (0.2%). In 1895, Bosnia and Herzegovina had 1,336,091 inhabitants, of which there was 571,250 Orthodox Christians (42.76%), 492,710 Muslims (36,88%), 265,788 Catholics (19.89%), 5,805 Jews (0.43%) and 53 others (0.04%). The slow process of nation-building on one hand and the austro-Hungarian administration's downplaying ethnic differences and nationalism while trying to keep Croatian and Serbian influence on the country at bay on the other hand make it difficult to assess the actual ethnic allegiance at this period.\n\nThe main characteristic of the ethnic policy of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia (1918–1941) was a Serbian attempt to implement Serbian hegemony and to serbianize rest of the population. According to the 1931 census, Bosnia and Herzegovina had 2,323,787 inhabitants of which Serbs made 44.25%, Muslims 30.90%, Croats 23.58% and others made 1.02% of the total population.\n\nThe first Yugoslav census recorded a decreasing number of Croats; from the first census in 1948 to the last one from 1991, the percentage of Croatians decreased from 23% to 17.3%, even though the total number increased. According to the 1953 census, Croats were in the majority in territories which became part of Banovina of Croatia in 1939. Their total number was 654,229, that is 23,00% of total Bosnian population. According to the 1961 census, Croats made up 21.7% of total population, and their number was 711,660. After that, districts were divided into smaller municipalities.\n\nAccording to the 1971 census, Croats were 20.6% of total population, and their number was 772,491. According to the 1981 census, Croats made up 18.60% of total population, and their number was 767,247. In comparison to the 1971 census, for the first time the percentage of Croats was below 20%, and after 1981, their percentage continued to fall. From 1971 to 1991, the percentage of Croats fell due to emigration into Croatia and Western Europe. Nevertheless, the fall in population percentage is only absent in western Herzegovina municipalities where Croats account for more than 98% of the population. According to the 1991 census, Croats were 17.3% of the total population, and their number was 755,895.\n\nThe total number of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina continued to fall, especially after the Bosnian War broke out in 1992. Soon, an exodus of Bosnian Croats occurred when a large number of Croats were expelled from central Bosnia and Posavina. According to the 1996 census, made by UNHCR and officially unrecognized, there were 571,317 Croats in the country (14.57%). In the territory of the Herzeg-Bosnia, the percentage of Croats slightly changed, although, their total number was reduced.\n\nThe first education institutions of Bosnian Croats were monasteries, of which the most significant were those in Kreševo, Fojnica, Kraljeva Sutjeska and Tolisa, and later monasteries in Herzegovina, of which most significant are those in Humac and Široki Brijeg. The most significant people workingfor the elementary education of Bosnian Croats in the 19th century were Ivan Franjo Jukić and Grgo Martić, who founded and organized elementary schools throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina. In 1887, many elementary schools were founded in Bosnia and Herzegovina along with the Order of Sisters of St. Francis, whose classes were led methodologically and professionally, so Bosnian Croat schools were, at the end of Ottoman era and beginning of Austrian-Hungarian occupation, the same as elementary schools in rest of Europe. The educational system of Bosnia and Herzegovina during communism was based on a mixture of nationalities and the suppression of Croat identity. With the foundation of Croatian Community of Herzeg-Bosnia, Bosnian Croat schools took the educational system from Croatia.\n\nAt the same time, University Džemal Bijedić of Mostar was renamed to University of Mostar with official Croatian language. This university is the only one in Bosnia and Herzegovina to use Croatian as official language. After signing the Dayton accords, jurisdiction over education in Republika Srpska was given to RS Government, while in Federation, jurisdiction over education was given to the cantons. Municipalities with Croat majority or significant minority, schools with Croatian language as official one also exist, while on territories were there is only a small number of Croats, Catholic centres perform education. Another education institutes are HKD Napredak, Scientific Research Institute of University of Mostar, Croatian Lexicographic Institute of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Institute for Education in Mostar.\n\nCroats of Bosnia and Herzegovina speak Croatian, a standardized variety of Serbo-Croatian language, spoken by the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Even though most of them speak in the Ijekavian, also the norm among Bosniaks and Bosnian Serbs, Ikavian is also used and was widespread in larger parts of Bosnia.\n\nCroats of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as other two constitutive nations, have their representative in the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Presidency has three members, one Bosniak, one Croat and one Serb. Bosniak and Croat are elected in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, while Serb is elected in the Republika Srpska.\n\nCurrent Croat member of the Presidency is Dragan Čović of the HDZ BiH.\n\nThe Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina has two chambers, House of Representatives and House of Peoples. House of Peoples has 15 members, five Bosniaks, five Croats and five Serbs. Bosniak and Croat members of the House of Peoples are elected in the Parliament of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, while five Serb members are elected in the National Assembly of Republika Srpska. The 42 members of the House of Representatives are elected directly by voters, two-thirds are from the Federation while one-third is from the Republika Srpska.\n\nThe Parliament of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina consists also out of two chambers, House of Representatives, that consists of 98 members, and House of Peoples that consists of 58 members.\n\nMembers of the House of Representatives are elected directly by the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, while members of the House of Peoples are selected by the cantonal assemblies. There are 17 representatives in the House of Peoples of each constitutive nation, Bosniaks, Croats and Serbs. Other 7 representatives are those of national minorities.\n\nIn electing the President and two Vice-Presidents of the Federation, at least one third of the delegates of the respective Bosniak, Croat or Serb caucuses in the House of Peoples may nominate the President and two Vice presidents of the Federation. The election for the President and two Vice Presidents of the Federation shall require the joint approval of the list of three nominees, by a majority vote in the House of Representatives, and then by a majority vote in the House of Peoples, including the majority of each constituent people’s caucus. Current President of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina is Marinko Čavara of the Croatian Democratic Union.\n\nThe Government of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina needs to be composed out of 16 ministers, 8 Bosniaks, 5 Croats and 3 Serbs.\n\nIn January 2017, Croatian National Assembly stated that \"if Bosnia and Herzegovina wants to become self-sustainable, then it is necessary to have an administrative-territorial reorganization, which would include a federal unit with a Croatian majority. It remains the permanent aspiration of the Croatian people of Bosnia and Herzegovina.\"\n\nCurrently, there are several Croatian political parties in Bosnia and Herzegovina, many corresponding to parties within Croatia itself. The Croatian Democratic Union of Bosnia and Herzegovina (HDZ BiH), Croatian Democratic Union 1990 (HDZ 1990) are the most popular parties.\n\nHDZ was founded in 1990 and is major political parties among Bosnian Croats, being the most powerful during the Bosnian War (1992–1995) and existence of the Croatian Republic of Herzeg-Bosnia (1991–1994). HDZ is Christian democratic, conservative and pro-Europeanist political party.\n\nHDZ 1990 is a split party of the Croatian Democratic Union, founded in 2006, however, their ideology is very similar to one of the HDZ. HDZ 1990 is also Christian democratic and pro-Europeanist.\n\nCroatian Party of Rights was also very popular during the Bosnian War, even among Bosniaks since its military unit, Croatian Defence Forces, had a lot of both, Croat and Bosniak soldiers. HSP was founded also in 1990. HSP is a far-right, nationalist political party.\n\nA conference was held in Neum, Bosnia and Herzegovina on October 27 and 28th 2005, under the title Constitutional-law position of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina - language, education, culture and media () was\n\nIt was organized by the University of Mostar and the Croatian Society of Arts and Science. It produced the \"Declaration of the constitutional-law position of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina\". (The words \"constitutional-law position\" refer to the position of Croats as one of the constitutive nations of Bosnia and Herzegovina). President Ivo Miro Jović sponsored the conference and it also received support from many other organizations.\n\nThe Declaration produced several demands about the equal treatment of the Croatian population in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Most significant of these was the creation of three republics within the nation:\n\n\nThe Declaration upheld the right to learn Croatian in school as well as the need for preservation of their people's culture. Another important issue was the need for a Croat television station within the country.\n\nIn the area near the Neretva river, a hellenized Illyrian tribe, the Daorsi, spread cultural influences from Greece. Their capital Daorson on Oršćani near Stolac is today the most significant center of antic culture in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The complex of the terraced shrine near Gradac near Posušje, built in 183, was dedicated to a dead Roman Emperor, Marcus Aurelius. Late Roman art in Bosnia and Herzegovina was characterized by the building of vilas, Christian mausoleums, basilicas and oratories like Vila \"Mogorjelo\" near Čapljina (early 4th century). The influence of romanesque architecture arrived in Bosnia and Herzegovina across Croatia, but it was never completely accepted, only its elements were used. Such buildings are St. Luke's Tower in Jajce (15th century) or motives of \"stećak\" tombstones. Valuable manuscripts of Bosnian origin occur at this time.\n\nHrvoje's Missal is the most significant art of the medieval Bosnian Croats, written in the 15th century. During the 15th and 16th century, Bosnia and Herzegovina was under Ottoman rule, which destroyed the influence of the Renaissance and Baroque, the impact of which was only present in Franciscan monasteries in Visoko, Kreševo, Fojnica, and Kraljeva Sutjeska. The first Bosnian Croat painters were educated in European academies in Vienna, Munich, Prague, Krakow, Budapest and Paris. Their education was funded by HKD Napredak. The most famous Bosnian Croat painters are Gabrijel Jurkić, Karlo Mijić, Branko Radulović and Petar Šain. Statuary was reduced to the memorial portraits, of which the most famous is that of Robert Frangeš Mihanović and \"Sputani genije\", a statue on the grave of Silvije Strahimir Kranjčević built by Rudolf Valdec. After World War II, the Association of Artists of Bosnia and Herzegovina was founded along with the Painting State School and Sarajevo Art Gallery. Architectural Regionalism is seen in the 1970s on buildings such as department store \"Razvitak\" in Mostar (1970) and in Jajce (1976). The best example of Functionalism is the multiple award-winning hotel \"Ruža\" in Mostar (1979).\n\nBosnian Croat literature consists of works written in the Croatian language by authors who originated from Bosnia and Herzegovina, and is considered part of Croatian literature. It consists of pre-Ottoman literature (first written monuments, texts of Bogomils, diplomatic and law documents, manuscripts on tombstones), Bosna Srebrena literature (prayer books, catechisms, collections of sermons, biographies of saints, monastery yearbooks, first historical works, poems and memoirs, travel books, grammars of Latin and Croatian languages and lexicographic works), national awakening literature (the foundation of various associations, reading rooms, libraries in which writing courses were held), the literature of Bosnian Muslims (various Bosniak writers made a significant impact on Croatian literature and were influenced by other Croat authors) and modern Bosnian Croat literature.\n\nThe best known contributors to the Bosnian Croat literature are Ivo Andrić, Ivan Aralica, Safvet-beg Bašagić, Enver Čolaković, Musa Ćazim Ćatić, Matija Divković, Mak Dizdar, Asaf Duraković, Fadil Hadžić, Mirko Kovač, Ivo Kozarčanin, Silvije Strahimir Kranjčević, Tomislav Ladan, Vitomir Lukić, Grgo Martić, Matija Mažuranić, Ahmed Muradbegović, and Antun Branko Šimić.\n\nTraditional music of Croats of Bosnia and Herzegovina is related to ganga, klapa, gusle, tamburica and šargija. Those ways of singing and musical instruments are part of Bosnian Croat national identity. Ganga, klapa and gusle are mostly widespread on territory of western Herzegovine, even though those can be seen in eastern Herzegovina and Bosnia. Tamburica is popular in Posavina and central Bosnia. Šargija is widespread in northern Bosnia, from Posavina to Olovo and Vareš.\n\nWith mixture of traditional and modern music, modern Bosnian music was represented by Indexi, Bijelo dugme, Ambasadori and others. The most known singers of modern Bosnian Croat music are Đorđe Novković, Željko Bebek and Jura Stublić. Some new known singers include Mate Bulić, Ivan Mikulić, Nikša Bratoš, Ivana Marić, the Feminnem girl band, and others. Some other well known Croatian singers originate from Bosnia and Herzegovina, including Ivo Fabijan, Boris Novković, Vesna Pisarović and others. There are two significant music festivals, \"Melodije Mostara\" (Melodies of Mostar) and \"Etnofest Neum\" on which musicians from Croatia also participate. Alongside traditional music, some other musical genres also developed, like heavy metal, hip hop, house and techno.\n\nCroats form the core of the Catholic Church in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The metropolitan diocese is the Archdiocese of Vrhbosna. There are also dioceses centered in Banja Luka and Mostar, of which Mostar is the largest. Vinko Puljić is the current Cardinal and Archbishop of Vrhbosna. The Cathedral of Jesus' Heart in Sarajevo is the largest cathedral in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and is the seat of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Vrhbosna. The other three Roman Catholic cathedrals in Bosnia and Herzegovina are the Cathedral of Saint Bonaventure in Banja Luka, the Cathedral of Mary the Mother of the Church in Mostar, and the Cathedral of the Birth of Mary in Trebinje.\n\nThere are numerous monasteries throughout the region. The oldest is the 14th century Monastery of the Holy Spirit located in Fojnica in central Bosnia, which houses a large library filled with many historical documents dating back to medieval Bosnia. Two other well-known monasteries are the Guča Gora Monastery near Travnik and Kraljeva Sutjeska Monastery near Kakanj, both located in central Bosnia. The rest of the monasteries in the region are the Monastery of St. Anthony in Sarajevo, the Monastery of St. Mark in Derventa, Gorica Monastery in Livno, and the Assumption of Mary Monastery in Prozor-Rama. Oldest saved church in Bosnia is Old Church of St. Michael in Vareš. It has been built before the 16th century.\nThe parish of Međugorje is a significant Marian shrine which attracts approximately one million visitors annually. It became a popular site of religious pilgrimage due to reports of apparitions of the Virgin Mary to six local Catholics in 1981. Over a thousand hotel and hostel beds are available for religious tourism.\n\nCroatian-run clubs in Bosnia and Herzegovina number among the country's most successful. They are well represented in terms of national championships in relation to the percentage of Croats in the population. In football, HŠK Zrinjski Mostar, NK Široki Brijeg, NK Žepče, NK Posušje, and HNK Orašje are some of the most successful. Collectively, they have won three national Cup and five national Championships since national competition began in 2000. Other Croatian-run clubs are NK Brotnjo, NK SAŠK Napredak, HNK Ljubuški, HNK Sloga Uskoplje. The clubs are often among the nation's most multi-ethnic.\n\nPrior to 2000, the Croats ran their own football league. However, they have joined the UEFA-approved Football Association of Bosnia and Herzegovina's league system. Bosnia and Herzegovina has produced many successful internationals, both for the Croatian national team and the national team of Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "162724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=162724", "title": "Daniel arap Moi", "text": "Daniel arap Moi\n\nDaniel Toroitich arap Moi ( ) (born 2 September 1924) is a former Kenyan politician who served as the second President of Kenya from 1978 to 2002. Through popular agitation and external pressures, he was forced to allow multiparty elections in 1991; he led his party, KANU, to victory in the 1992 and 1997 elections. Prior to becoming President, he served as the third Vice President of Kenya from 1967 to 1978.\n\nMoi is popularly known to Kenyans as \"Nyayo\", a Swahili word for \"footsteps\", as he often said he was following in the footsteps of the first President, Jomo Kenyatta. He also earned the sobriquet \"Professor of Politics\" due to his long rule of 24 years, the longest in Kenyan history to date.\n\nMoi was born in Kurieng'wo village, Sacho division, Baringo County, and was raised by his paternal uncle Kimoi Chebii following the early death of his father. He is of the Tugen sub-group of the Kalenjin people. After completing his secondary education at Kapsabet High School, he attended Tambach Teachers Training College in the Keiyo District. He worked as a teacher from 1946 until 1955.\n\nIn 1955 Moi entered politics when he was elected Member of the Legislative Council for Rift Valley. He was the chosen replacement of Dr. John ole Tameno, the former representative who had had to quit due to heavy drinking and suspected connections to the freedom movement. In 1957 Moi was re-elected Member of the Legislative Council for Rift Valley. He became Minister of Education in the pre-independence government of 1960–1961.\n\nIn 1960 he founded the Kenya African Democratic Union (KADU) with Ronald Ngala to challenge the Kenya African National Union (KANU) led by Jomo Kenyatta. KADU pressed for a federal constitution, while KANU was in favour of centralism. The advantage lay with the numerically stronger KANU, and the British government was finally forced to remove all provisions of a federal nature from the constitution.\n\nAfter Kenya gained independence on 12 December 1963, Kenyatta convinced Moi that KADU and KANU should be merged to complete the process of decolonisation. Accordingly, KADU dissolved and joined KANU in 1964. The only real challenge to KANU's dominance came from the Kenya People's Union, starting in 1966. That party was banned in 1969, and from that point onward Kenya was a de facto one-party state dominated by the Kĩkũyũ-Luo alliance. However, with an eye on the fertile lands of the Rift Valley populated by members of Moi's Kalenjin tribe, Kenyatta secured their support by first promoting Moi to Minister for Home Affairs in 1964, and then to Vice-President in 1967. As a member of a minority tribe Moi was also an acceptable compromise for the major tribes. Moi was elected to the Kenyan parliament in 1963 from Baringo North. From 1966 until his retirement in 2002 he served as the Baringo Central MP.\n\nHowever, Moi faced opposition from the Kikuyu elite known as the Kiambu Mafia, who would have preferred one of their own to be eligible for the presidency. This resulted in an attempt by the constitutional drafting group to change the constitution to prevent the vice-president automatically assuming power in the event of the president's death. The presence of this succession mechanism might have led to dangerous political instability if Kenyatta died, given his advanced age and perennial illnesses. However, Kenyatta withstood the political pressure and safeguarded Moi's position.\n\nWhen Jomo Kenyatta died on 22 August 1978, Moi became acting president. Per the Constitution, a special presidential election for the balance of Kenyatta's term was held on 8 November, 90 days later. Moi was the sole candidate.\n\nIn the beginning, Moi was popular, with widespread support all over the country. He toured the country and came into contact with the people everywhere, which was in great contrast to Kenyatta's imperial style of governing behind closed doors. However, political realities dictated that he would continue to be beholden to the Kenyatta system which he had inherited intact, including the nearly dictatorial powers vested in the presidency. Despite his popularity, Moi was still too weak to consolidate his power. From the beginning, anticommunism was an important theme of Moi's government; speaking on the new President's behalf, Vice-President Mwai Kibaki bluntly stated, \"There is no room for communists in Kenya.\"\n\nOn 1 August 1982, lower-level Air Force personnel, led by Senior Private Grade-I Hezekiah Ochuka and backed by university students, attempted a coup d'état to oust Moi. The putsch was quickly suppressed by military and police forces commanded by Chief of General Staff Mahamoud Mohamed. To this day it appears that the attempt by two independent groups to seize power contributed to the failure of both, with one group making its attempt slightly earlier than the other.\n\nMoi took the opportunity to dismiss political opponents and consolidate his power. He reduced the influence of Kenyatta's men in the cabinet through a long running judicial enquiry that resulted in the identification of key Kenyatta men as traitors. Moi pardoned them but not before establishing their traitor status in the public view. The main conspirators in the coup, including Ochuka were sentenced to death, marking the last judicial executions in Kenya. He appointed supporters to key roles and changed the constitution to formally make KANU the only legally permitted party in the country. However, as mentioned above, Kenya had been a \"de facto\" one-party state since 1969. Kenya's academics and other intelligentsia did not accept this and the universities and colleges became the origin of movements that sought to introduce democratic reforms. However, Kenyan secret police infiltrated these groups and many members moved into exile. Marxism could no longer be taught at Kenyan universities. Underground movements, e.g. Mwakenya and Pambana, were born.\n\nMoi's regime now faced the end of the Cold War, and an economy stagnating under rising oil prices and falling prices for agricultural commodities. At the same time the West no longer dealt with Kenya as it had in the past, when it was viewed as a strategic regional outpost against communist influences from Ethiopia and Tanzania. At that time Kenya had received much foreign aid, and the country was accepted as well governed with Moi as a legitimate leader and firmly in charge. Western allies deliberately overlooked the increasing degree of political repression, including the use of torture at the infamous Nyayo House torture chambers. Some of the evidence of these torture cells was eventually to be exposed in 2003 after Mwai Kibaki became President.\n\nHowever, a new thinking emerged among Western policymakers after the end of the Cold War, and as Moi increasingly was viewed as a despot. Foreign aid was withheld pending compliance with economic and political reforms. One of the key conditions imposed on his regime, especially by the United States through fiery ambassador Smith Hempstone, was the restoration of a multi-party system. Despite his own lack of enthusiasm for the multiparty system, Moi managed to win over his party who were pro-single party, single-handedly convincing the delegates at a convened KANU conference at Kasarani in December 1991.\n\nMoi won elections in 1992 and 1997, which were marred by political violence on both sides. Moi skilfully exploited Kenya's mix of ethnic tensions in these contests, especially smaller tribes' ever-present fear of domination by the larger tribes. In the absence of an effective and organised opposition, Moi had no difficulty in winning. Although it is also suspected that electoral fraud may have occurred, the key to his victory in both elections was a divided opposition. He always won the election with a minority vote of about 30% against the opposition who had a combined 70%, which was nonetheless of no consequence because it was subdivided among the opposition who had failed to unite.\n\nIn 1999 the findings of NGOs like Amnesty International and a special investigation by the United Nations were published which indicated that human rights abuses were prevalent in Kenya under the Moi regime.\n\nReporting on corruption and human rights abuses by British reporter Mary Anne Fitzgerald from 1987–88 resulted in her being vilified by the government and finally deported. Moi was implicated in the 1990s Goldenberg scandal and subsequent cover-ups, where the Kenyan government subsidised exports of gold far in excess of the foreign currency earnings of exporters. In this case, the gold was smuggled from Congo, as Kenya has negligible gold reserves. The Goldenberg scandal cost Kenya the equivalent of more than 10% of the country's annual GDP.\n\nHalf-hearted inquiries that began at the request of foreign aid donors never amounted to anything substantial during Moi's presidency. Although it appears that the peaceful transfer of power to Mwai Kibaki may have involved an understanding that Moi would not stand trial for offences committed during his presidency, foreign aid donors reiterated their requests, and Kibaki reopened the inquiry. As the inquiry has progressed, Moi, his two sons, Philip and Gideon (now a Senator), and his daughter, June, as well as a host of high-ranking Kenyans, have been implicated. In testimony delivered in late July 2003, Treasury Permanent Secretary Joseph Magari recounted that, in 1991, Moi ordered him to pay Ksh34.5 million ($460,000) to Goldenberg, contrary to the laws then in force.\n\nIn October 2006, Moi was found by the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes to have taken a bribe from a Pakistani businessman, to award a monopoly of duty-free shops at the country's international airports in Mombasa and Nairobi. The businessman, Ali Nasir, claimed to have paid Moi US$2 million in cash to obtain government approval for the World Duty Free Limited investment in Kenya.\n\nOn 31 August 2007, WikiLeaks published a secret report that laid bare a web of shell companies, secret trusts and frontmen that his entourage had used to funnel hundreds of millions of pounds into nearly 30 countries.\n\nMoi was constitutionally barred from running in the 2002 presidential elections. Some of his supporters floated the idea of amending the constitution to allow him to run for a third term, but Moi preferred to retire, choosing Uhuru Kenyatta, the son of Kenya's first President, as his successor. However, Mwai Kibaki was elected President by a two to one majority over Kenyatta, which was confirmed on 29 December 2002. Kibaki was then wheelchair bound, having narrowly escaped death in a road traffic accident on the campaign trail.\n\nMoi handed over power in a poorly organised ceremony that had one of the largest crowds ever seen in Nairobi in attendance. The crowd was openly hostile to Moi.\n\nAfter leaving office in December 2002, Moi lived in retirement, largely shunned by the political establishment. However, he still retained some popularity with the masses, and his presence never failed to gather a crowd. He spoke out against a proposal for a new constitution in 2005; according to Moi, the document was contrary to the aspirations of the Kenyan people. After the proposal was defeated in a November 2005 constitutional referendum, President Kibaki called President Moi to arrange for a meeting to discuss the way forward.\n\nOn 25 July 2007, Kibaki appointed Moi as special peace envoy to Sudan, referring to Moi's \"vast experience and knowledge of African affairs\" and \"his stature as an elder statesman\". In his capacity as peace envoy, Moi's primary task was to help secure peace in southern Sudan, where an agreement, signed in early 2005, was being implemented. At the time, the Kenyan press speculated that Moi and Kibaki were planning an alliance ahead of the December 2007 election. On 28 August 2007, Moi announced his support for Kibaki's re-election and said that he would campaign for Kibaki. He sharply criticised the two opposition Orange Democratic Movement factions, arguing that they were tribal in nature.\n\nMoi owns the Kiptagich Tea Factory, established in 1979, which has been involved in controversy. In 2009 the factory was under threat of being closed down by the government during the Mau Forest evictions.\n\nDaniel arap Moi married Lena Moi (born Helena Bommet) in 1950, but they separated in 1974, before his presidency. Lena died in 2004. Daniel arap Moi has eight children, five sons and three daughters. Among the children are Gideon Moi (Senator , Baringo County), Jonathan Toroitich (a former rally driver) and Philip Moi (a retired army officer). His older and only brother William Tuitoek died in 1995. He is a member of the Africa Inland Mission Church.\n\nMoi High School Kabarak(Nakuru)\nMoi Girls Eldoret\nMoi Forces High School\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3644929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3644929", "title": "David Checketts", "text": "David Checketts\n\nSquadron Leader Sir David John Checketts, (born 1930) was Private Secretary to the Prince of Wales 1970-1979.\n\nHe joined the Royal Air Force in 1948 and received flying training at RATG Bulawayo, Southern Rhodesia in 1948-1950.\n\nChecketts served with 14 Squadron in Germany 1950-1954, and then was an instructor at the fighter weapons school 1954-1957. From 1958-1959 he was Aide-de-Camp to the Commander-in-Chief Malta. He returned to Germany 1960-1961 with 3 Squadron.\n\nFrom 1961 to 1966 he was appointed Equerry to His Royal Highness the Duke of Edinburgh. Checketts and his wife were the guardians of the young Prince Charles in Australia whilst he attended Geelong Grammar School in 1966. Checketts is said to have commented that he \"went out with a boy and came back with a man\". On his return in 1967 he became Equerry to the Prince of Wales, and in 1970 was promoted to be his Private Secretary and Treasurer. He retired as Private Secretary in 1979, and as Treasurer in 1979. He has been Extra Equerry since 1979. He remains the longest serving of the Prince of Wales Private Secretaries.\n\nHe was later director of Phoenix Lloyd Ltd and Neilson McCarthy Company (a public relations firm) c.1970\n\nChecketts was appointed an MVO in 1966, and promoted to CVO in 1969, and KCVO in 1979.\n"}
{"id": "2212502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2212502", "title": "Ding Zilin", "text": "Ding Zilin\n\nDing Zilin (; born December 20, 1936 or January 1, 1939) is a retired professor of philosophy and the leader of the political pressure group Tiananmen Mothers.\n\nDing, born in Shanghai on December 20, 1936, was professor of philosophy at Renmin University of China in Beijing. Her husband, Jiang Peikun (蔣培坤), was head of the Aesthetics Institute at the university.\n\nDing's seventeen-year-old son, Jiang Jielian (蔣捷連), was one of the first to be killed when the People's Liberation Army crushed the Tiananmen Square protests. He left the family home in defiance of the curfew. Accounts vary of what happened next. Eyewitnesses had told her that her son was shot and was left to bleed to death on the night of June 3, 1989. Ding says he was shot through the heart by riot police on the way to Tiananmen Square. He was rushed to the Beijing Children's Hospital, where he was pronounced \"Dead on arrival\".\n\nFollowing her son's death, Ding said she attempted suicide six times.\n\nIn August 1989, she met another bereaved mother, and found a commonality within the self-help group, which continued growing. She formed a network of some 150 other families who had lost sons and daughters during the 1989 Tiananmen massacre, and this group became known as \"Tiananmen Mothers\". Ever since that day, she has been asking the government to apologize for the deaths. She and some others have faced imprisonment, house-arrest, phone-tapping and constant surveillance.\n\nIn 1991, after an interview she gave to ABC News, the government prevented her and her husband from carrying out their work or research, and were barred from publishing domestically. Party membership was revoked. In addition, she was detained for more than 40 days. She was forced into early retirement. Since her release, she was under close supervision by the authorities. Harassment continued when on September 9, 1994, she was arrested in front of the University and held by police for two hours, for having had published an article in the foreign media \"hurtful to the people\". Again in 1995, she and her husband were arrested in Wuxi on August 18 and incarcerated until September 30, allegedly on \"economic matters\", and were denied visitors. In 1996 Ding's husband was forced to retire early. Since February 28, 2000, she has been under 24-hour surveillance by the authorities.\n\nIn 2004, she and other Tiananmen Mothers were put under house arrest shortly before the 15th anniversary of the massacre to prevent them from holding any public memorial or protest. She was allegedly told by a senior official that a review of the June 4, 1989 crackdown was \"out of the question.\" In 2006, Time magazine selected her as one of the \"60 Asian heroes\".\n\nShe has been collecting the names of those who were shot dead by the People's Liberation Army in Beijing around June 4, 1989. At the end of June 2006, Ding was able to confirm 186 deaths through her own efforts despite repeated harassment by the authorities. However, it should be noted, that upon close inspection of the cause of deaths, not all individuals on Ding's list died directly at the hands of the army. For example, at least one of the individuals on the list had committed suicide after the uprising had been squashed.\n\nShe and her husband have been under house arrest as of May 24, 2004. On February 8, 2007, she won the Vasyl Stus \"Freedom-to-Write\" Award for her book \"Looking for the June 4 victims\". She was ordered to leave Beijing for a forced vacation during the 2008 Summer Olympics. Following the announcement that Liu Xiaobo had won the 2010 Nobel Peace Prize, and his dedication of his prize to those who died in 1989, dissident groups reported on October 18 she and her husband may have been taken into custody by police, and have not been seen or heard from for four days; their phones have been cut off.\n\nSince her son's death in the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989, Ding Zilin has been fighting for justice for the victims. Her activism has drawn international attention and association with recognizable human rights groups such as Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch and HRIC (Human Rights in China). New York based human rights watchdog HRIC has been labelled by the Chinese government as a hostile organization. Because of Ding Zilins efforts Amnesty International has a political campaign to put pressure on the Chinese government to acknowledge and apologize for the deaths of so many citizens. Amnesty applauded the Chinese government in June 2007 for allowing Ding Zilin, her husband and two other dead citizens’ kin to light candles west of Tiananmen Square. Despite the minimal recognition from the government Amnesty urges Chinese authorities to allow open debate and more public memorials in order to help improve Chinas human rights record and the image of Beijing on the international stage. Ding Zilin and human rights groups demand the Chinese government to stop labelling the student protest with political jargon such as “counter-revolutionary rebellion”.\n\nTiananmen Mothers is an activist group of people who lost family members on June fourth. Spearheaded by Ding Zilin they have collected over one hundred names of individuals who openly state that they lost a loved one on that day. Over the past twenty years in public letters published by multiple sources including HRIC, The China Post, The New York Times, Time Magazine and Amnesty International, the Tiananmen Mothers continue to publish a list of demands:\n\n\nDespite her multiple arrests and constant surveillance, civil disobedience is Ding Zilin's daily choice, she never stops using her voice to speak out in non-violent ways against the violations of human rights committed by the Chinese government. On April 5, 2004 \"Time\" magazine said that Ding Zilin is “the symbolic leader for many people in China who want the government to account for its actions that night. She is a small woman with a strong voice. Her bereavement makes her powerful”. Author of \"Beijing Coma\", Ma Jian also discusses her civil disobedience in a June 4, 2008 \"New York Times\" article. He describes how she will once again defy authorities and lay a memorial off Chang'an Avenue. He suggests “behind the bravado, the party is as fearful as a deer in the headlights,” of displays of support that show that despite government efforts to erase history many refuse to forget.\n\nIn June 2009 in a Newsweek interview with Ding Zilin she condemns the actions and legacy of many historical figures. She questions why Deng Xiaoping was not brought to justice like the notorious former Cambodian Khmer Rouge leader Pol Pot. Ding Zilin uses her son's story to spread the message of human rights in China and feels it should be a central political issue. She was disappointed when US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said that close Sino-American Relations should not be overshadowed by human rights. She does, however, acknowledge that in 1995 Hillary Clinton helped to get her released from one of her many incarcerations. Ding Zilin condemns former President Bill Clinton for\nattending a ceremonial red carpet appearance in Tiananmen Square:“With the blood of the students still wet, the wounds still there, unhealed, how could Clinton step onto the red carpet to review Chinese troops?”. Human Rights Watch claims that on May 26, 1994, President Clinton said China had not made significant progress on many of the issues outlined in his 1993 Executive Order, however, a tough human rights policy was hampering the ability of the US to pursue other interests Human rights groups like HRIC, Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch describe in their philosophies to be critical of governments gaining international power with bad human rights records.\n\nDing Zilin has dedicated the remainder of her life after her son's death to being a human rights activist. She has most recently spoken out in support of Nobel Peace Prize winner Liu Xiaobo. Her continued campaigning relies on support from fundraising organizations like Fill the Square.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56672063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56672063", "title": "Doundou Chefou", "text": "Doundou Chefou\n\nIbrahim Doundou Chefou is a Nigerien militant and a mid-level commander in the Islamic State in the Greater Sahara. Code named \"Naylor Road\" by the United States.\n\nChefou is believed to have the led the ambush of a convoy of U.S. and Nigerien troops in October 2017 that left four American and five Nigerien soldiers dead. Formerly a Fulani herder in the Niger-Mali border region, he initially took up arms to battle Tuareg cattle thieves. According to \"The New York Times\", U.S. troops were attempting to locate Chefou in October 2017 when at least fifty militants purportedly led by him attacked them near the village of Tongo Tongo in southwestern Niger.\n\nChefou is believed by African officials to be one of the main propagators of unrest in the Sahel region. Niger's defense minister labeled him a \"terrorist\" and a \"bandit.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "13064481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13064481", "title": "Faisal al-Duwaish", "text": "Faisal al-Duwaish\n\nFaisal bin Sultan al-Duwaish (Arabic: فيصل بن سلطان الدويش, c. 1882 – d. 1931) was a Prince of the Mutair tribe and one of the Ikhwan leaders, who assisted Ibn Saud in the unification of Saudi Arabia.\n\nAl-Duwaish commanded the attack on Kuwait Defense and Security Forces in Hamdh 16 May 1920. Later, in 1920, he led an attack by the Ikhwan on Kuwait.\n\nHe was injured at the 1929 battle of Sabilla, fled Arabia and later surrendered to the British in Kuwait. Sultan was pardoned by his former ruler King Abd al-Aziz ibn Saud of Nejd and Hejaz (later of Saudi Arabia), but was later jailed in Riyadh where he died in 1931 suffering from an aneurysm.\n\n"}
{"id": "32019742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32019742", "title": "Fathers of the Constitution", "text": "Fathers of the Constitution\n\nThe Fathers of the Constitution () were the seven political leaders who participated in the writing of the Spanish Constitution of 1978. \n\nGabriel Cisneros, Miguel Herrero y Rodríguez de Miñón and José Pedro Pérez Llorca\nrepresented the centre-right Union of the Democratic Centre; Manuel Fraga Iribarne, the right-wing People's Alliance; Gregorio Peces-Barba, the left-wing Spanish Socialist Worker's Party; Jordi Solé Tura, the Unified Socialist Party of Catalonia and Miguel Roca Junyent, of the Democratic Pact for Catalonia, represented the Catalan nationalists.\n\nThe 7 fathers of the Constitution.\n"}
{"id": "58810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58810", "title": "Gaius Marcius Coriolanus", "text": "Gaius Marcius Coriolanus\n\nGaius Marcius (Caius Martius) Coriolanus () was a Roman general who is said to have lived in the 5th century BC. He received his toponymic cognomen \"Coriolanus\" because of his exceptional valor in a Roman siege of the Volscian city of Corioli. He was subsequently exiled from Rome, and led troops of Rome's enemy the Volsci to besiege Rome.\n\nIn later ancient times, it was generally accepted by historians that Coriolanus was a real historical individual, and a consensus narrative story of his life appeared, retold by leading historians such as Livy, Plutarch, and Dionysius of Halicarnassus. More recent scholarship has cast doubt on the historicity of Coriolanus, with some portraying him as either a wholly legendary figure or at least disputing the accuracy of the conventional story of his life or the timing of the events.\n\nAccording to Plutarch, his ancestors included prominent patricians such as Censorinus and even an early King of Rome.\n\nThe story is the basis for the tragedy of \"Coriolanus\", written by William Shakespeare, and a number of other works, including Beethoven's \"Coriolan Overture\" (based not on Shakespeare but on the play \"Coriolan\" by Heinrich Joseph von Collin).\n\nCoriolanus came to fame as a young man serving in the army of the consul Postumus Cominius Auruncus in 493 BC during the siege of the Volscian town of Corioli. While the Romans were focused on the siege, another Volscian force arrived from Antium (modern Anzio and Nettuno) and attacked the Romans, and at the same time the soldiers of Corioli launched a sally. Marcius held watch at the time of the Volscian attack. He quickly gathered a small force of Roman soldiers to fight against the Volscians who had sallied forth from Corioli. Not only did he repel the enemy, but he also charged through the town gates and then began setting fire to some of the houses bordering the town wall. The citizens of Corioli cried out, and the whole Volscian force was dispirited and was defeated by the Romans. The town was captured, and Marcius gained the cognomen Coriolanus.\n\nIn 491 BC, two years after Coriolanus' victory over the Volscians, Rome was recovering from a grain shortage. A significant quantity of grain was imported from Sicily, and the senate debated the manner in which it should be distributed to the commoners. Coriolanus advocated that the provision of grain should be dependent upon the reversal of the pro-plebeian political reforms arising from the First secessio plebis in 494 BC.\n\nThe senate thought Coriolanus' proposal was too harsh. The populace were incensed at Coriolanus' proposal, and the tribunes put him on trial. The senators argued for the acquittal of Coriolanus, or at the least a merciful sentence. Coriolanus refused to attend on the day of his trial, and he was convicted.\n\nCoriolanus fled to the Volsci in exile. He was received and treated kindly, and resided with the Volscian leader Attius Tullus Aufidius.\n\nPlutarch's account of his defection tells that Coriolanus donned a disguise and entered the home of Aufidius as a supplicant.\n\nCoriolanus and Aufidius then persuaded the Volscians to break their truce with Rome and raise an army to invade. Livy recounts that Aufidius tricked the Roman senate into expelling the Volsci from Rome during the celebration of the Great Games, thereby stirring up ill-will among the Volsci.\n\nCoriolanus and Aufidius led the Volscian army against Roman towns, colonies and allies. Roman colonists were expelled from Circeii. They then retook the formerly Volscian towns of Satricum, Longula, Pollusca and Corioli. Then the Volscian army took Lavinium, then Corbio, Vitellia, Trebia, Lavici and Pedum.\n\nFrom there the Volsci marched on Rome and besieged it. The Volscians initially camped at the Cluilian trench, five miles outside Rome, and ravaged the countryside. Coriolanus directed the Volsci to target plebeian properties and to spare the patricians'.\n\nThe consuls, now Spurius Nautius Rutilus and Sextus Furius Medullinus Fusus, readied the defences of the city. But the plebeians implored them to sue for peace. The senate was convened, and it was agreed to send supplicants to the enemy. Initially ambassadors were sent, but Coriolanus sent back a negative response. The ambassadors were sent to the Volsci a second time, but were refused entry to the enemy camp. Next priests, in their regalia, were sent by the Romans, but achieved nothing more than had the ambassadors.\n\nThen Coriolanus' mother Veturia (known as Volumnia in Shakespeare's play) and his wife Volumnia (known as Virgilia in Shakespeare's play) and his two sons, together with the matrons of Rome, went out to the Volscian camp and implored Coriolanus to cease his attack on Rome. Coriolanus was overcome by their pleas, and moved the Volscian camp back from the city, ending the siege. Rome honoured the service of these women by the erection of a temple dedicated to Fortuna (a female deity).\n\nCoriolanus' fate after this point is unclear, but it seems he took no further part in the war.\n\nOne version says that Coriolanus retired to Aufidius' home city of Antium. Coriolanus had committed acts of disloyalty to both Rome and the Volsci, and Aufidius raised support to have Coriolanus first put on trial by the Volscians, and then assassinated before the trial had ended.\n\nPlutarch's tale of Coriolanus' appeal to Aufidius is quite similar to a tale from the life of Themistocles, a leader of the Athenian democracy who was a contemporary of Coriolanus. During Themistocles' exile from Athens, he travelled to the home of Admetus, King of the Molossians, a man who was his personal enemy. Themistocles came to Admetus in disguise and appealed to him as a fugitive, just as Coriolanus appealed to Aufidius. Themistocles, however, never attempted military retaliation against Athens.\n\nSome modern scholars question parts of the story of Coriolanus. It is notable that accounts of Coriolanus' life are first found in works from the third century BC, some two hundred years after Coriolanus' life, and there are few authoritative historical records prior to the Gallic sack of Rome in 390 BC. Whether or not Coriolanus himself is a historical figure, the saga preserves a genuine popular memory of the dark, unhappy decades of the early 5th century BC when the Volscians overran Latium and threatened the very existence of Rome.\n\nShakespeare's \"Coriolanus\" is the last of his \"Roman plays\". Its portrayal of the hero has led to a long tradition of political interpretation of Coriolanus as an anti-populist, or even proto-fascist leader. Bertolt Brecht's version of \"Coriolanus\" (1951) stresses this aspect. Shakespeare's play also forms the basis of the 2011 motion picture \"Coriolanus\", starring and directed by Ralph Fiennes, in which Coriolanus is the protagonist.\n\nHeinrich Joseph von Collin's 1804 play \"Coriolan\" portrayed him in the context of German romantic ideas of the tragic hero. Beethoven's 1807 \"Coriolan Overture\" was written for a production of the von Collin play.\n\nT. S. Eliot wrote a sequence of poems in 1931 entitled \"Coriolan\".\n\nSteven Saylor's 2007 novel \"Roma\" presents Coriolanus as a plebeian, the child of a patrician mother and plebeian father. His attitudes toward the changes occurring in Rome during his lifetime are reflective of what has been described. He achieves Senatorial status thanks to his military valour and connections. When he calls for the abolition of the office of Tribune, he becomes a target of the plebeians and their representatives. He flees before the trial which would ruin him and his family socially and financially, and seeks the alliance with the Volsci described above. His military campaign against Rome is successful and his forces are approaching the walls of the city until the appeal of the Roman women, including his patrician mother and his wife. When he orders his troops to withdraw, he is killed by them.\n\n\"The 48 Laws of Power\" uses Coriolanus as an example of violating Law #4: \"Always Say Less Than Necessary,\" citing his constant insulting of the plebeians as the reason for his exile.\n\n"}
{"id": "2397645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2397645", "title": "George Hislop", "text": "George Hislop\n\nGeorge Hislop (June 3, 1927 – October 8, 2005) was one of Canada's most influential gay activists. He was one of the earliest openly gay candidates for political office in Canada, and was a key figure in the early development of Toronto's gay community.\n\nHislop studied speech and drama at the Banff School of Fine Arts, graduating in 1949. He subsequently worked as an actor, and ran an interior design company with his partner, Ron Shearer.\n\nIn 1971, Hislop cofounded the Community Homophile Association of Toronto, one of Canada's first organizations for gays and lesbians. On August 28, 1971, he was also an organizer of We Demand, the first Canadian gay rights demonstration on Parliament Hill. He later played a significant role as a contact between one of the criminals and the police in the Emanuel Jaques murder case in 1977.\n\nIn 1980, Hislop ran for Toronto City Council. He won the support of then-Mayor John Sewell, a move that contributed to Sewell's defeat. The Toronto police association openly campaigned against both Sewell and Hislop in the election. The following year, Hislop ran in the 1981 provincial election as an independent candidate in St. George to protest against the 1981 Toronto bathhouse raids. Hislop was himself charged as a result of these raids, as part-owner of the Barracks bathhouse. He placed fourth with 2,677 votes (9.3% of the total), a strong finish for an independent candidate.\n\nThrough the 1980s and 1990s, Hislop remained active as a business owner and activist.\n\nIn 2003, Hislop was nominated for the Order of Ontario by George Smitherman. Also that year, Hislop was one of several gay activists who launched a class action lawsuit against the federal government. The government had extended Canada Pension Plan benefits to the surviving same-sex partners of deceased pensioners as of 1998, but the change was not retroactive to earlier deaths. Shearer had died in 1986, making Hislop ineligible for survivor benefits.\n\nThe suit aimed to have retroactive benefits extended back to the 1985 inclusion of gay and lesbian equality rights in the Charter of Rights and Freedoms. On November 26, 2004, the lawsuit ended in victory for Hislop and his coplaintiffs, although the federal government subsequently filed a controversial appeal of the decision. The federal government lost this appeal on March 1, 2007, when the Supreme Court ruled in Hislop's favour.\n\nAlso in 2004, Hislop was the grand marshal of Toronto's Pride parade. \n\nIn 2005, Hislop was the first-ever recipient of the International Lesbian and Gay Law Association's Karl Heinrich Ulrichs Award in honour of his contributions to the advancement of LGBT equality in Canada, and was cited by federal New Democratic Party leader Jack Layton as an important influence on Layton's support of LGBT issues. In August of that year, Hislop received his first pension cheque under the 2004 court decision. \n\nThe \"Toronto Star\" reported that Hislop, who had diabetes, Parkinson's disease and esophageal cancer, died on October 8 in Toronto Grace Hospital. In an obituary notice, \"Eye Weekly\" referred to Hislop as \"the unofficial mayor of the Toronto gay community\".\n\nIn October 2005, just one week after his death, Hislop was posthumously awarded the inaugural Jonathan R. Steinert and Fernando G. Ferreiro Award, Canada's largest award for contributions to LGBT communities. The $12,500 award, established by the Lesbian and Gay Community Appeal Foundation, would be given to Hislop's estate. \n\nA park in the city's Church and Wellesley neighbourhood is also named in Hislop's honour. In honour of his role as a significant builder of LGBT culture and history in Canada, a portrait of Hislop by artist Norman Hatton is held by the Canadian Lesbian and Gay Archives' National Portrait Collection.\n\n"}
{"id": "5540975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5540975", "title": "Hannah Tan", "text": "Hannah Tan\n\nHannah Tan (born October 25, 1981 in Penang), also known as Hannah T or Hannah Sarah Tan, is a Malaysian singer-songwriter, actress, model and television personality. She is half-Chinese and half-Kelabit. She married Bryan Lee in 2014.\n\nOn Tan's debut music album, \"Crossing Bridges\", she collaborated with composers/writers Jorgen Elofsson, Phil Thornalley, Andrew Fromm and Chris Rojas. The album also contained three songs Tan personally wrote and composed. In 2007, she appeared on the Live Earth stage at Live and Loud KL 2007 before acts such as Elliott Yamin, Shaggy and Whitney Houston.\n\nHer Malaysian single \"Angel\" was the first from a new album to be released at the end of 2010.\n\nIn October 2009 she became the first Malaysian to venture into the commercial Japanese entertainment scene with the signing of a multimillion-dollar recording contract to Tokyo-based Fillmore Far East Inc group. Her 2-year contract will see the release of a Japanese debut Single in August 2010.\nIn January 2008, she made her debut into the Malay entertainment scene by playing the lead role in the Malay tele-movie \"Bezanya Cinta\".\n\nHannah was invited in October 2008 by film director Afdlin Shauki to play the lead female role as an undercover interpol agent in his \"My Spy\".\n\nAt the same time, her 2009 \"I’ll Be Home For Christmas\" Christmas saw the largest gift collection in a day for the underprivileged children in local orphanages around the Klang Valley, totaling up to more than 650 gifts worth over RM15,000. For the concert, Hannah invited friends from the industry to perform and be part of the community service event.\n\nSony Pictures appointed Hannah as the first ambassador for Animax Asia in November 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "192437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=192437", "title": "Hui pan-nationalism", "text": "Hui pan-nationalism\n\nHui pan-nationalism refers to the common identity among diverse communities of Chinese-speaking Muslims (typically members of the Hui ethnic-cultural group).\n\nHui pan-nationalism should be distinguished from nationalist sentiments by minority groups who are also Muslim such as those of the Uyghurs.\n\n"}
{"id": "832158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=832158", "title": "Icelanders", "text": "Icelanders\n\nIcelanders () are a North Germanic ethnic group and nation, native to Iceland, mostly speaking the Germanic language Icelandic.\n\nIcelanders established the country of Iceland in 930 A.D. when Althingi (Parliament) met for the first time. Iceland came under the reign of Norwegian, Swedish and Danish kings but regained full sovereignty and independence from the Danish monarchy on 1 December 1918, when Kingdom of Iceland was established. On 17 June 1944, the monarchy was abolished and the Icelandic republic was founded. The language spoken is Icelandic, a North Germanic language, and Lutheranism is the predominant religion. Historical and DNA records indicate that around 60 to 80 percent of the male settlers were of Norse origin (primarily from Western Norway) and a similar percentage of the women were of Gaelic stock from Ireland and peripheral Scotland.\n\nIcelanders have had a tumultuous history. Development of the island was slow due to a lack of interest from the countries controlling it for most of its history: Norway, Denmark–Norway, and ultimately Denmark. Through this time, Iceland had relatively little contact with the outside world. The island became independent in personal union with the Kingdom of Denmark in 1918. Since 1944, Iceland has been a republic, and Icelandic society has undergone a rapid modernisation process in the post-independence era.\n\nIceland is a geologically young land mass, having formed an estimated 20 million years ago due to volcanic eruptions on the Mid-Atlantic ridge. One of the last larger islands to remain uninhabited, the first human settlement date is generally accepted to be 874 AD, although there is some evidence to suggest human activity prior to the Norse arrival.\n\nThe first Viking to sight Iceland was Gardar Svavarsson, who went off course due to harsh conditions when sailing from Norway to the Faroe Islands. His reports led to the first efforts to settle the island. Flóki Vilgerðarson (b. 9th century) was the first Norseman to sail to Iceland intentionally. His story is documented in the Landnámabók manuscript, and he is said to have named the island Ísland (Iceland). The first permanent settler in Iceland is usually considered to have been a Norwegian chieftain named Ingólfur Arnarson. He settled with his family in around 874, at a place he named \"Bay of Smokes\", or Reykjavík in Icelandic.\n\nFollowing Ingólfur, and also in 874, another group of Norwegians set sail across the North Atlantic Ocean with their families, livestock, slaves, and possessions, escaping the domination of the first King of Norway, Harald Fairhair. They traveled 1,000 km (600 mi) in their Viking longships to the island of Iceland. These people were primarily of Norwegian, Irish or Gaelic Scottish origin. The Irish and the Scottish Gaels were either slaves or servants of the Norse chiefs, according to the Icelandic sagas, or descendants of a \"group of Norsemen who had settled in Scotland and Ireland and intermarried with Gaelic-speaking people\". Genetic evidence suggests that approximately 62% of the Icelandic maternal gene pool is derived from Ireland and Scotland, which is much higher than other Scandinavian countries, although comparable to the Faroese, while 37% is of Nordic origin. About 20-25% of the Icelandic paternal gene pool is of Gaelic origin, with the rest being Nordic.\n\nThe Icelandic Age of Settlement (Icelandic: \"Landnámsöld\") is considered to have lasted from 874 to 930, at which point most of the island had been claimed and the Alþingi (), the assembly of the Icelandic Commonwealth, was founded at Þingvellir.\n\nIn 930, on the Þingvellir () plain near Reykjavík, the chieftains and their families met and established the Alþingi, Iceland's first national assembly. However, the Alþingi lacked the power to enforce the laws it made. In 1262, struggles between rival chieftains left Iceland so divided that King Haakon IV of Norway was asked to step in as a final arbitrator for all disputes, as part of the Old Covenant. This is known as the Age of the Sturlungs.\n\nIceland was under Norwegian leadership until 1380, when the Royal House of Norway died out. At this point, both Iceland and Norway came under the control of the Danish Crown. With the introduction of absolute monarchy in Denmark, the Icelanders relinquished their autonomy to the crown, including the right to initiate and consent to legislation. This meant a loss of independence for Iceland, which led to nearly 300 years of decline: perhaps largely because Denmark and its Crown did not consider Iceland to be a colony to be supported and assisted. In particular, the lack of help in defense led to constant raids by marauding pirates along the Icelandic coasts.\n\nUnlike Norway, Denmark did not need Iceland's fish and homespun wool. This created a dramatic deficit in Iceland's trade, and no new ships were built as a result. In 1602 Iceland was forbidden to trade with other countries by order of the Danish Government, and in the 18th century climatic conditions had reached an all-time low since Settlement.\nIn 1783–84 Laki, a volcanic fissure in the south of the island, erupted. The eruption produced about 15 km³ (3.6 mi³) of basalt lava, and the total volume of tephra emitted was 0.91 km³. The aerosols that built up caused a cooling effect in the Northern Hemisphere. The consequences for Iceland were catastrophic, with approximately 25-33% of the population dying in the famine of 1783 and 1784. Around 80% of sheep, 50% of cattle, and 50% of horses died of fluorosis from the 8 million tons of fluorine that were released. This disaster is known as the Mist Hardship (Icelandic: \"Móðuharðindin\").\n\nIn 1798–99 the Alþingi was discontinued for several decades, eventually being restored in 1844. It was moved to Reykjavík, the capital, after being held at Þingvellir for over nine centuries.\n\nThe 19th century brought significant improvement in the Icelanders' situation. A protest movement was led by Jón Sigurðsson, a statesman, historian, and authority on Icelandic literature. Inspired by the romantic and nationalist currents from mainland Europe, Jón protested strongly, through political journals and self-publications, for 'a return to national consciousness' and for political and social changes to be made to help speed up Iceland's development.\n\nIn 1854, the Danish government relaxed the trade ban that had been imposed in 1602, and Iceland gradually began to rejoin Western Europe economically and socially. With this return of contact with other peoples came a reawakening of Iceland's arts, especially its literature. Twenty years later in 1874, Iceland was granted a constitution. Icelanders today recognize Jón's efforts as largely responsible for their economic and social resurgence.\n\nIceland gained full sovereignty and independence from Denmark in 1918 after World War I. It became the Kingdom of Iceland. The King of Denmark also served as the King of Iceland but Iceland retained only formal ties with the Danish Crown. On 17 June 1944 the monarchy was abolished and a republic was established on what would have been Jón Sigurðsson's 133rd birthday. This ended nearly six centuries of ties with Denmark.\n\nDue to their small founding population and history of relative isolation, Icelanders have often been considered highly genetically homogeneous as compared to other European populations. For this reason, along with the extensive genealogical records for much of the population that reach back to the settlement of Iceland, Icelanders have been the focus of considerable genomics research by both biotechnology companies and academic and medical researchers. It was, for example, possible for researchers to reconstruct much of the maternal genome of Iceland's first known black inhabitant, Hans Jonatan, from the DNA of his present-day descendants partly because the distinctively African parts of his genome were unique in Iceland until very recent times.\n\nGenetic evidence shows that most DNA lineages found among Icelanders today can be traced to the settlement of Iceland, indicating that there has been relatively little immigration since. This evidence shows that the founder population of Iceland came from Ireland, Scotland, and Scandinavia: studies of mitochondrial DNA and Y-chromosomes indicate that 62% of Icelanders' matrilineal ancestry derives from Scotland and Ireland (with most of the rest being from Scandinavia), while 75% of their patrilineal ancestry derives from Scandinavia (with most of the rest being from the Irish and British Isles). Despite Iceland's historical isolation, the genetic makeup of Icelanders today is still quite different from the founding population, due to founder effects and genetic drift. One study found that the mean Norse ancestry among Iceland's settlers was 56%, whereas in the current population the figure was 70%.\n\nOther studies have identified other ancestries, however. One study of mitochondrial DNA, blood groups, and isozymes revealed a more variable population than expected, comparable to the diversity of some other Europeans. Another study showed that a tiny proportion of samples of contemporary Icelanders carry a more distant lineage, which belongs to the haplogroup C1e, which can possibly be traced to the settlement of the Americas around 14,000 years ago. This hints a small proportion of Icelanders have some Native American ancestry arising from Norse colonization of Greenland and North America.\n\nThe first Europeans to emigrate to and settle in Greenland were Icelanders who did so under the leadership of Erik the Red in the late 10th century CE and numbered around 500 people. Isolated fjords in this harsh land offered sufficient grazing to support cattle and sheep, though the climate was too cold for cereal crops. Royal trade ships from Norway occasionally went to Greenland to trade for walrus tusks and falcons. The population eventually reached a high point of perhaps 3,000 in two communities and developed independent institutions before fading away during the 15th century. A papal legation was sent there as late as 1492, the year Columbus attempted to find a shorter spice route to Asia but instead encountered the Americas.\n\nAccording to the \"Saga of Eric the Red\", Icelandic immigration to North America dates back to Vinland circa 1006. The colony was believed to be short-lived and abandoned by the 1020s. European settlement of the region was not archeologically and historically confirmed as more than legend until the 1960s. The former Norse site, now known as L'Anse aux Meadows, pre-dated the arrival of Colombus in the Americas by almost 500 years.\n\nA more recent instance of Icelandic emigration to North America occurred in 1855, when a small group settled in Spanish Fork, Utah. Another Icelandic colony formed in Washington Island, Wisconsin. Immigration to the United States and Canada began in earnest in the 1870s, with most migrants initially settling in the Great Lakes area. These settlers were fleeing famine and overcrowding on Iceland. Today, there are sizable communities of Icelandic descent in both the United States and Canada. Gimli, in Manitoba, Canada, is home to the largest population of Icelanders outside of the main island of Iceland.\n\nFrom the mid-1990s, Iceland experienced rising immigration. By 2017 the population of first-generation immigrants (defined as people born abroad with both parents foreign-born and all grandparents foreign-born) stood at 35,997 (10.6% of residents), and the population of second-generation immigrants at 4,473. Correspondingly, the numbers of foreign-born people acquiring Icelandic citizenship are markedly higher than in the 1990s, standing at 703 in 2016. Correspondingly, Icelandic identity is gradually shifting towards a more multicultural form.\n\nIcelandic, a North Germanic language, is the official language of Iceland (\"de facto\"; the laws are silent about the issue). Icelandic has inflectional grammar comparable to Latin, Ancient Greek, more closely to Old English and practically identical to Old Norse.\n\nOld Icelandic literature can be divided into several categories. Three are best known to foreigners: Eddic poetry, skaldic poetry, and saga literature, if saga literature is understood broadly. Eddic poetry is made up of heroic and mythological poems. Poetry that praises someone is considered skaldic poetry or court poetry. Finally, saga literature is prose, ranging from pure fiction to fairly factual history.\n\nWritten Icelandic has changed little since the 13th century. Because of this modern readers can understand the Icelanders' sagas. The sagas tell of events in Iceland in the 10th and early 11th centuries. They are considered to be the best-known pieces of Icelandic literature.\n\nThe elder or \"Poetic Edda\", the younger or \"Prose Edda\", and the sagas are the major pieces of Icelandic literature. The \"Poetic Edda\" is a collection of poems and stories from the late 10th century, whereas the younger or \"Prose Edda\" is a manual of poetry that contains many stories of Norse mythology.\n\nIceland embraced Christianity in c. AD 1000, in what is called the \"kristnitaka\", and the country, while mostly secular in observance, is still predominantly Christian culturally. The Lutheran church claims some 84% of the total population. While early Icelandic Christianity was more lax in its observances than traditional Catholicism, Pietism, a religious movement imported from Denmark in the 18th century, had a marked effect on the island. By discouraging all but religious leisure activities, it fostered a certain dourness, which was for a long time considered an Icelandic stereotype. At the same time, it also led to a boom in printing, and Iceland today is one of the most literate societies in the world.\n\nWhile Catholicism was supplanted by Protestantism during the Reformation, most other world religions are now represented on the island: there are small Protestant Free Churches and Catholic communities, and even a nascent Muslim community, composed of both immigrants and local converts. Perhaps unique to Iceland is the fast-growing \"Ásatrúarfélag\", a legally recognized revival of the pre-Christian Nordic religion of the original settlers. According to the Roman Catholic Diocese of Reykjavík, there were only approximately 30 Jews in Iceland as of 2001. The former First Lady of Iceland Dorrit Moussaieff was an Israeli-born Bukharian Jew.\n\nIcelandic cuisine consists mainly of fish, lamb, and dairy. Fish was once the main part of an Icelander's diet but has recently given way to meats such as beef, pork, and poultry.\n\nIceland has many traditional foods called Þorramatur. These foods include smoked and salted lamb, singed sheep heads, dried fish, smoked and pickled salmon, and cured shark. Andrew Zimmern, a chef who has traveled the world on his show \"Bizarre Foods with Andrew Zimmern\", responded to the question \"What's the most disgusting thing you've ever eaten?\" with the response \"That would have to be the fermented shark fin I had in Iceland.\" Fermented shark fin is a form of Þorramatur.\n\nThe earliest indigenous Icelandic music was the \"rímur\", epic tales from the Viking era that were often performed a cappella. Christianity played a major role in the development of Icelandic music, with many hymns being written in the local idiom. Hallgrímur Pétursson, a poet and priest, is noted for writing many of these hymns in the 17th century. The island's relative isolation ensured that the music maintained its regional flavor. It was only in the 19th century that the first pipe organs, prevalent in European religious music, first appeared on the island.\n\nMany singers, groups, and forms of music have come from Iceland. Most Icelandic music contains vibrant folk and pop traditions. Some more recent groups and singers are Voces Thules, The Sugarcubes, Björk, Sigur Rós, and Of Monsters and Men.\n\nThe national anthem is \"Ó Guð vors lands\" (), written by Matthías Jochumsson, with music by Sveinbjörn Sveinbjörnsson. The song was written in 1874, when Iceland celebrated its one thousandth anniversary of settlement on the island. It was originally published with the title \"A Hymn in Commemoration of Iceland's Thousand Years\".\n\nIceland's men's national football team participated in their first FIFA World Cup in 2018, after reaching the quarter finals of its first major international tournament, UEFA Euro 2016. The women's national football team has yet to reach a World Cup; its best result at a major international event was a quarterfinal finish in UEFA Women's Euro 2013. The country's first Olympic participation was in the 1912 Summer Olympics; however, they did not participate again until the 1936 Summer Olympics. Their first appearance at the Winter Games was at the 1948 Winter Olympics. In 1956, Vilhjálmur Einarsson won the Olympic silver medal for the triple jump. The Icelandic national handball team has enjoyed relative success. The team received a silver medal at the 2008 Olympic Games and a 3rd place at the 2010 European Men's Handball Championship.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13460125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13460125", "title": "Isabel Godin des Odonais", "text": "Isabel Godin des Odonais\n\nIsabel Godin des Odonais (1728 in Riobamba, Viceroyalty of Peru, now in Ecuador – 28 September 1792 in Cher, France) was an 18th-century woman who became separated from her husband in South America by colonial politics, and was not reunited with him until more than 20 years later. Her long journey, from western Peru to the mouth of the Amazon River, is considered unusual in the history of South America. Her story has been often repeated and inspired popular misconceptions of the dangers of the tropical rain forest.\n\nIn 1749, her husband, Jean Godin des Odonais, left their home in Riobamba, Ecuador, Spanish South America to visit French Guiana. As a French citizen, he was refused permission by the Spanish and Portuguese authorities to return for his family. Isabel Godin des Odonais became famous for being the only survivor of a 42-person, 3000-mile expedition through the Amazon Basin to rejoin her husband. They were reunited in 1770 and later returned to France together.\n\nIsabel Godin des Odonais \"née\" Gramesón was the daughter of Don Pedro Gramesón y Bruno, an administrator in Riobamba, a Spanish colonial city in the Viceroy of Peru. She was well-educated and spoke fluent Spanish, French, and Quechua, an understood the use of quipus, the Incan method of communicating information using colored strings and knots.\n\nJean Godin des Odonais was a French cartographer and naturalist who had joined the world's first geodesy expedition to the equator. The team worked in the Quito region from 1735 to 1744, during which time Jean and Isabel met. They married on 27 December 1741, when Isabel was fourteen years old.\n\nAt first Jean decided to remain in Riobamba with his new wife, but in 1743 he offered to accompany La Condamine on his next expedition. He stayed behind to see Isabel through her pregnancy. But, when he heard of his father's death in March 1749, Godin decided to return to France with his family. He planned to travel alone to Cayenne, French Guiana via the Amazon to test whether the journey would be safe for them to take, and to make the necessary arrangements with the French authorities.\nUpon arriving in Cayenne, Godin found the Portuguese and Spanish colonial authorities would not let him — a Frenchman of no importance — return through their territory. Unwilling to return to France without his family, he became a reluctant resident of French Guiana, constantly writing pleas to Europe to allow for his return to Riobamba. Eventually, La Condamine wrote on Godin's behalf to the Portuguese king, who due to changing political circumstances was eager to befriend the French. In 1765 he ordered a galiot, crewed by thirty oarsmen, to take Godin back to his wife. However, as Godin had written some incendiary letters against the Portuguese, he was suspicious of the offer of passage up the Amazon, and abandoned the ship at its first port. The captain of the galiot continued upriver without him, to fetch the Frenchman's wife as ordered.\n\nFor most of their 20-year separation, Isabel received no news of her husband, while enduring the death of her children from smallpox. She moved to the smaller community of Guzman. When she heard rumors that a ship was waiting to take her down the Amazon, she sent her servant Joachim and a handful of Indians to investigate. The party returned two years after having discovered the waiting ship, four years after its initial departure. Isabel's father, Don Pedro, went ahead to the ship to make arrangements and to wait for Isabel.\n\nOn 1 October 1769 a 42-person party set out for the ship: Isabel, her servant Joachim, Isabel’s two brothers Antoine and Eugenio Gramesón, Isabel’s ten-year-old nephew Joaquin, three servants: Rosa, Elvia, and Heloise, thirty-one Indians, and three Frenchman. The route across the Andean mountains and Amazon Basin was arduous, made worse by the recent devastation by smallpox of the mission station at Canelos (in present-day Pastaza Province), depriving the party of valuable support nine days into their journey. They found two Indian survivors who agreed to repair a forty-foot canoe, in which they continued down the Amazon.\n\nThe river journey proved difficult, with the canoe unmanageable. The Indians from Canelos deserted them, and one of the party drowned trying recover the hat of one of the Frenchmen. With the canoe weighed down by supplies, the party set up camp and sent Joachim and one of the Frenchmen ahead in the canoe, so they could return with extra transport. Waiting for Joachim to return, the others began to suffer from infected insect bites. Infection killed Isabel's nephew Joaquin, then Rosa and Elvia, the remaining Frenchmen and Isabel's brothers. Heloise wandered off in the middle of the night, never to be seen again. With the others dead, Isabel was left wandering alone in the jungle.\n\nWhen the servant Joachim arrived back at the camp, he found only the bodies of the deceased travelers. Unable to identify Isabel's body, he sent word of her death to Don Pedro — news which later reached Jean Godin. Isabel wandered alone and starving for nine days. Half-crazed, she met four Indians who offered her help in reaching Cayenne. With their help, she was able to reach the waiting ship. The story of her incredible journey soon spread, and she was treated to an increasingly grand reception as she made her way downriver.\n\nOn 22 July 1770 Isabel and Jean were reunited in the town of Oyapock after more than 20 years of separation. They remained in Cayenne for a few years. On 21 April 1773, Isabel, her husband and her father decided to leave Guiana and finally make their way to France. Don Pedro, having been severely disturbed by the events leading up to their arrival in France, died on 28 November 1780. Jean Godin died in their home on the Rue Hotel-Dieu in Saint-Amand-Montrond, Cher, on 1 March 1792. Isabel died there on 27 September the same year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16193", "title": "Jackie Robinson", "text": "Jackie Robinson\n\nJack Roosevelt Robinson (January 31, 1919 – October 24, 1972) was an American professional baseball player who became the first African American to play in Major League Baseball (MLB) in the modern era. Robinson broke the baseball color line when the Brooklyn Dodgers started him at first base on April 15, 1947. When the Dodgers signed Robinson, they heralded the end of racial segregation in professional baseball that had relegated black players to the Negro leagues since the 1880s. Robinson was inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1962.\n\nRobinson had an exceptional 10-year MLB career. He was the recipient of the inaugural MLB Rookie of the Year Award in 1947, was an All-Star for six consecutive seasons from 1949 through 1954, and won the National League Most Valuable Player Award in 1949—the first black player so honored. Robinson played in six World Series and contributed to the Dodgers' 1955 World Series championship.\n\nIn 1997, MLB retired his uniform number 42 across all major league teams; he was the first pro athlete in any sport to be so honored. MLB also adopted a new annual tradition, \"Jackie Robinson Day\", for the first time on April 15, 2004, on which every player on every team wears No. 42.\n\nRobinson's character, his use of nonviolence, and his unquestionable talent challenged the traditional basis of segregation which then marked many other aspects of American life. He influenced the culture of and contributed significantly to the civil rights movement. Robinson also was the first black television analyst in MLB and the first black vice president of a major American corporation, Chock full o'Nuts. In the 1960s, he helped establish the Freedom National Bank, an African-American-owned financial institution based in Harlem, New York. After his death in 1972, in recognition of his achievements on and off the field, Robinson was posthumously awarded the Congressional Gold Medal and Presidential Medal of Freedom.\n\nRobinson was born on January 31, 1919, into a family of sharecroppers in Cairo, Georgia. He was the youngest of five children born to Mallie (McGriff) and Jerry Robinson, after siblings Edgar, Frank, Matthew (nicknamed \"Mack\"), and Willa Mae. His middle name was in honor of former President Theodore Roosevelt, who died 25 days before Robinson was born. After Robinson's father left the family in 1920, they moved to Pasadena, California.\n\nThe extended Robinson family established itself on a residential plot containing two small houses at 121 Pepper Street in Pasadena. Robinson's mother worked various odd jobs to support the family. Growing up in relative poverty in an otherwise affluent community, Robinson and his minority friends were excluded from many recreational opportunities. As a result, Robinson joined a neighborhood gang, but his friend Carl Anderson persuaded him to abandon it.\n\nIn 1935, Robinson graduated from Washington Junior High School and enrolled at John Muir High School (Muir Tech). Recognizing his athletic talents, Robinson's older brothers Mack (himself an accomplished athlete and silver medalist at the 1936 Summer Olympics) and Frank inspired Jackie to pursue his interest in sports.\n\nAt Muir Tech, Robinson played several sports at the varsity level and lettered in four of them: football, basketball, track, and baseball. He played shortstop and catcher on the baseball team, quarterback on the football team, and guard on the basketball team. With the track and field squad, he won awards in the broad jump. He was also a member of the tennis team.\n\nIn 1936, Robinson won the junior boys singles championship in the annual Pacific Coast Negro Tennis Tournament and earned a place on the Pomona annual baseball tournament all-star team, which included future Hall of Famers Ted Williams and Bob Lemon. In late January 1937, the \"Pasadena Star-News\" newspaper reported that Robinson \"for two years has been the outstanding athlete at Muir, starring in football, basketball, track, baseball and tennis.\"\n\nAfter Muir, Robinson attended Pasadena Junior College (PJC), where he continued his athletic career by participating in basketball, football, baseball, and track. On the football team, he played quarterback and safety. He was a shortstop and leadoff hitter for the baseball team, and he broke school broad-jump records held by his brother Mack. As at Muir High School, most of Jackie's teammates were white. While playing football at PJC, Robinson suffered a fractured ankle, complications from which would eventually delay his deployment status while in the military. In 1938, he was elected to the All-Southland Junior College Team for baseball and selected as the region's Most Valuable Player.\n\nThat year, Robinson was one of 10 students named to the school's Order of the Mast and Dagger (\"Omicron Mu Delta\"), awarded to students performing \"outstanding service to the school and whose scholastic and citizenship record is worthy of recognition.\" Also while at PJC, he was elected to the Lancers, a student-run police organization responsible for patrolling various school activities.\n\nAn incident at PJC illustrated Robinson's impatience with authority figures he perceived as racist—a character trait that would resurface repeatedly in his life. On January 25, 1938, he was arrested after vocally disputing the detention of a black friend by police. Robinson received a two-year suspended sentence, but the incident—along with other rumored run-ins between Robinson and police—gave Robinson a reputation for combativeness in the face of racial antagonism. While at PJC, he was motivated by a preacher (the Rev. Karl Downs) to attend church on a regular basis, and Downs became a confidant for Robinson, a Christian. Toward the end of his PJC tenure, Frank Robinson (to whom Robinson felt closest among his three brothers) was killed in a motorcycle accident. The event motivated Jackie to pursue his athletic career at the nearby University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA), where he could remain closer to Frank's family.\n\nAfter graduating from PJC in spring 1939, Robinson enrolled at UCLA, where he became the school's first athlete to win varsity letters in four sports: baseball, basketball, football, and track.\n\nHe was one of four black players on the Bruins' 1939 football team; the others were Woody Strode, Kenny Washington, and Ray Bartlett. Washington, Strode, and Robinson made up three of the team's four backfield players. At a time when only a few black students played mainstream college football, this made UCLA college football's most They went undefeated with four ties at \n\nIn track and field, Robinson won the 1940 NCAA championship in the long jump at . Belying his future career, Robinson's \"worst sport\" at UCLA was baseball; he hit .097 in his only season, although in his first game he went 4-for-4 and twice stole home.\n\nWhile a senior at UCLA, Robinson met his future wife, Rachel Isum (b.1922), a UCLA freshman who was familiar with Robinson's athletic career He played football as a senior, but the 1940 Bruins won only one game. In the spring, Robinson left college just shy of graduation, despite his mother's and Isum's reservations. He took a job as an assistant athletic director with the government's National Youth Administration (NYA) \n\nAfter the government ceased NYA operations, Robinson traveled to Honolulu in the fall of 1941 to play football for the semi-professional, racially integrated Honolulu After a short season, Robinson returned to California in December 1941 to pursue a career as running back for the Los Angeles Bulldogs of the Pacific Coast Football League. By that time, however, the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor had taken place, drawing the United States into World War II and ending Robinson's nascent football career.\n\nIn 1942, Robinson was drafted and assigned to a segregated Army cavalry unit in Fort Riley, Kansas. Having the requisite qualifications, Robinson and several other black soldiers applied for admission to an Officer Candidate School (OCS) then located at Fort Riley. Although the Army's initial July 1941 guidelines for OCS had been drafted as race neutral, few black applicants were admitted into OCS until after subsequent directives by Army leadership. As a result, the applications of Robinson and his colleagues were delayed for several months. After protests by heavyweight boxing champion Joe Louis (then stationed at Fort Riley) and the help of Truman Gibson (then an assistant civilian aide to the Secretary of War), the men were accepted into OCS. The experience led to a personal friendship between Robinson and Louis. Upon finishing OCS, Robinson was commissioned as a second lieutenant in January 1943. Shortly afterward, Robinson and Isum were formally engaged.\n\nAfter receiving his commission, Robinson was reassigned to Fort Hood, Texas, where he joined the 761st \"Black Panthers\" Tank Battalion. While at Fort Hood, Robinson often used his weekend leave to visit the Rev. Karl Downs, President of Sam Huston College (now Huston-Tillotson University) in nearby Austin, Texas; Downs had been Robinson's pastor at Scott United Methodist Church while Robinson attended PJC.\n\nAn event on July 6, 1944 derailed Robinson's military career. While awaiting results of hospital tests on the ankle he had injured in junior college, Robinson boarded an Army bus with a fellow officer's wife; although the Army had commissioned its own unsegregated bus line, the bus driver ordered Robinson to move to the back of the bus. Robinson refused. The driver backed down, but after reaching the end of the line, summoned the military police, who took Robinson into custody. When Robinson later confronted the investigating duty officer about racist questioning by the officer and his assistant, the officer recommended Robinson be court-martialed. After Robinson's commander in the 761st, Paul L. Bates, refused to authorize the legal action, Robinson was summarily transferred to the 758th Battalion—where the commander quickly consented to charge Robinson with multiple offenses, including, among other charges, public drunkenness, even though Robinson did not drink.\n\nBy the time of the court-martial in August 1944, the charges against Robinson had been reduced to two counts of insubordination during questioning. Robinson was acquitted by an all-white panel of nine officers. The experiences Robinson was subjected to during the court proceedings would be remembered when he later joined MLB and was subjected to racist attacks. Although his former unit, the 761st Tank Battalion, became the first black tank unit to see combat in World War II, Robinson's court-martial proceedings prohibited him from being deployed overseas; thus, he never saw combat action.\n\nAfter his acquittal, he was transferred to Camp Breckinridge, Kentucky, where he served as a coach for army athletics until receiving an honorable discharge in November 1944. While there, Robinson met a former player for the Kansas City Monarchs of the Negro American League, who encouraged Robinson to write the Monarchs and ask for a tryout. Robinson took the former player's advice and wrote to Monarchs' co-owner Thomas Baird.\n\nAfter his discharge, Robinson briefly returned to his old football club, the Los Angeles Bulldogs. Robinson then accepted an offer from his old friend and pastor Rev. Karl Downs to be the athletic director at Samuel Huston College in Austin, then of the Southwestern Athletic Conference. The job included coaching the school's basketball team for the 1944–45 season. As it was a fledgling program, few students tried out for the basketball team, and Robinson even resorted to inserting himself into the lineup for exhibition games. Although his teams were outmatched by opponents, Robinson was respected as a disciplinarian coach, and drew the admiration of, among others, Langston University basketball player Marques Haynes, a future member of the Harlem Globetrotters.\n\nIn early 1945, while Robinson was at Sam Huston College, the Kansas City Monarchs sent him a written offer to play professional baseball in the Negro leagues. Robinson accepted a contract for $400 per month. Although he played well for the Monarchs, Robinson was frustrated with the experience. He had grown used to a structured playing environment in college, and the Negro leagues' disorganization and embrace of gambling interests appalled him. The hectic travel schedule also placed a burden on his relationship with Isum, with whom he could now communicate only by letter. In all, Robinson played 47 games at shortstop for the Monarchs, hitting .387 with five home runs, and registering 13 stolen bases. He also appeared in the 1945 East–West All-Star Game, going hitless in five at-bats.\n\nDuring the season, Robinson pursued potential major league interests. No black man had played in the major leagues since Moses Fleetwood Walker in 1884, but the Boston Red Sox nevertheless held a tryout at Fenway Park for Robinson and other black players on April 16. The tryout, however, was a farce chiefly designed to assuage the desegregationist sensibilities of powerful Boston City Councilman Isadore Muchnick. Even with the stands limited to management, Robinson was subjected to racial epithets. He left the tryout humiliated, and more than fourteen years later, in July 1959, the Red Sox became the last major league team to integrate its roster.\n\nOther teams, however, had more serious interest in signing a black ballplayer. In the mid-1940s, Branch Rickey, club president and general manager of the Brooklyn Dodgers, began to scout the Negro leagues for a possible addition to the Dodgers' roster. Rickey selected Robinson from a list of promising black players and interviewed him for possible assignment to Brooklyn's International League farm club, the Montreal Royals. Rickey was especially interested in making sure his eventual signee could withstand the inevitable racial abuse that would be directed at him. In a famous three-hour exchange on August 28, 1945, Rickey asked Robinson if he could face the racial animus without taking the bait and reacting angrily—a concern given Robinson's prior arguments with law enforcement officials at PJC and in the military. Robinson was aghast: \"Are you looking for a Negro who is afraid to fight back?\" Rickey replied that he needed a Negro player \"with guts enough not to fight back.\" After obtaining a commitment from Robinson to \"turn the other cheek\" to racial antagonism, Rickey agreed to sign him to a contract for $600 a month, equal to $ today. Rickey did not offer compensation to the Monarchs, instead believing all Negro league players were free agents due to the contracts not containing a reserve clause. Among those Rickey discussed prospects with was Wendell Smith, writer for the black weekly \"Pittsburgh Courier\", who according to Cleveland Indians owner and team president Bill Veeck \"influenced Rickey to take Jack Robinson, for which he's never completely gotten credit.\"\n\nAlthough he required Robinson to keep the arrangement a secret for the time being, Rickey committed to formally signing Robinson before November 1, 1945. On October 23, it was publicly announced that Robinson would be assigned to the Royals for the 1946 season. On the same day, with representatives of the Royals and Dodgers present, Robinson formally signed his contract with the Royals. In what was later referred to as \"The Noble Experiment\", Robinson was the first black baseball player in the International League since the 1880s. He was not necessarily the best player in the Negro leagues, and black talents Satchel Paige and Josh Gibson were upset when Robinson was selected first. Larry Doby, who broke the color line in the American League the same year as Robinson, said, \"One of the things that was disappointing and disheartening to a lot of the black players at the time was that Jack was not the best player. The best was Josh Gibson. I think that's one of the reasons why Josh died so early – he was heartbroken.\"\n\nRickey's offer allowed Robinson to leave behind the Monarchs and their grueling bus rides, and he went home to Pasadena.\nThat September, he signed with Chet Brewer's Kansas City Royals, a post-season barnstorming team in the California Winter League. Later that off-season, he briefly toured South America with another barnstorming team, while his fiancée Isum pursued nursing opportunities in New York City. On February 10, 1946, Robinson and Isum were married by their old friend, the Rev. Karl Downs.\n\nIn 1946, Robinson arrived at Daytona Beach, Florida, for spring training with the Montreal Royals of the Class AAA International League (the designation of \"AAA\" for the highest level of minor league baseball was first used in the 1946 season). Clay Hopper, the manager of the Royals, asked Rickey to assign Robinson to any other Dodger affiliate, but Rickey refused.\n\nRobinson's presence was controversial in racially charged Florida. As he was not allowed to stay with his teammates at the team hotel, he lodged instead at the home of a local black politician. Since the Dodgers organization did not own a spring training facility (the Dodger-controlled spring training compound in Vero Beach known as \"Dodgertown\" did not open until spring 1948), scheduling was subject to the whim of area localities, several of which turned down any event involving Robinson or Johnny Wright, another black player whom Rickey had signed to the Dodgers' organization in January. In Sanford, Florida, the police chief threatened to cancel games if Robinson and Wright did not cease training activities there; as a result, Robinson was sent back to Daytona Beach. In Jacksonville, the stadium was padlocked shut without warning on game day, by order of the city's Parks and Public Property director. In DeLand, a scheduled day game was postponed, ostensibly because of issues with the stadium's electrical lighting.\n\nAfter much lobbying of local officials by Rickey himself, the Royals were allowed to host a game involving Robinson in Daytona Beach. Robinson made his Royals debut at Daytona Beach's City Island Ballpark on March 17, 1946, in an exhibition game against the team's parent club, the Dodgers. Robinson thus became the first black player to openly play for a minor league team against a major league team since the \"de facto\" baseball color line had been implemented in the 1880s.\n\nLater in spring training, after some less-than-stellar performances, Robinson was shifted from shortstop to second base, allowing him to make shorter throws to first base. Robinson's performance soon rebounded. On April 18, 1946, Roosevelt Stadium hosted the Jersey City Giants' season opener against the Montreal Royals, marking the professional debut of the Royals' Jackie Robinson and the first time the color barrier had been broken in a game between two minor league clubs. Pitching against Robinson was Warren Sandel who had played against him when they both lived in California. During Robinson's first at bat, the Jersey City catcher, Dick Bouknight, demanded that Sandel throw at Robinson, but Sandel refused. Although Sandel induced Robinson to ground out at his first at bat, Robinson ended up with four hits in his five trips to the plate; his first hit was a three-run home run in the game's third inning. He also scored four runs, drove in three, and stole two bases in the Royals' 14–1 victory. Robinson proceeded to lead the International League that season with a .349 batting average and .985 fielding percentage, and he was named the league's Most Valuable Player. Although he often faced hostility while on road trips (the Royals were forced to cancel a Southern exhibition tour, for example), the Montreal fan base enthusiastically supported Robinson. Whether fans supported or opposed it, Robinson's presence on the field was a boon to attendance; more than one million people went to games involving Robinson in 1946, an amazing figure by International League standards. In the fall of 1946, following the baseball season, Robinson returned home to California and briefly played professional basketball for the short-lived Los Angeles Red Devils.\n\nIn 1947, the Dodgers called Robinson up to the major leagues six days before the start of the season. With Eddie Stanky entrenched at second base for the Dodgers, Robinson played his initial major league season as a first baseman. On April 15, Robinson made his major league debut at the relatively advanced age of 28 at Ebbets Field before a crowd of 26,623 spectators, more than 14,000 of whom were black. Although he failed to get a base hit, he walked and scored a run in the Dodgers' 5–3 victory. Robinson became the first player since 1880 to openly break the major league baseball color line. Black fans began flocking to see the Dodgers when they came to town, abandoning their Negro league teams.\n\nRobinson's promotion met a generally positive, although mixed, reception among newspapers and white major league players. However, racial tension existed in the Dodger clubhouse. Some Dodger players insinuated they would sit out rather than play alongside Robinson. The brewing mutiny ended when Dodgers management took a stand for Robinson. Manager Leo Durocher informed the team, \"I do not care if the guy is yellow or black, or if he has stripes like a fuckin' zebra. I'm the manager of this team, and I say he plays. What's more, I say he can make us all rich. And if any of you cannot use the money, I will see that you are all traded.\"\n\nRobinson was also derided by opposing teams. Some, notably the St. Louis Cardinals, threatened to strike if Robinson played, but also to spread the walkout across the entire National League. Existence of the plot was leaked by the Cardinals' team physician, Robert Hyland, to a friend, the \"New York Herald Tribune\"s Rutherford \"Rud\" Rennie. The reporter, concerned about protecting Hyland's anonymity and job, in turn leaked it to his \"Tribune\" colleague and editor, Stanley Woodward, whose own subsequent reporting with other sources protected Hyland. The Woodward article made national headlines. After the threat was exposed, National League President Ford Frick and Baseball Commissioner Happy Chandler let it be known that any striking players would be suspended. \"You will find that the friends that you think you have in the press box will not support you, that you will be outcasts,\" threatened Chandler. \"I do not care if half the league strikes. Those who do it will encounter quick retribution. All will be suspended and I don't care if it wrecks the National League for five years. This is the United States of America and one citizen has as much right to play as another.\" Woodward's article received the E. P. Dutton Award in 1947 for Best Sports Reporting. \"New York Times\" columnist Red Smith turned to the Cardinals' 1947 racial strike in 1977, as a spate of commemorative articles appeared on the 30th anniversary of Robinson's signing with the Dodgers. Smith remembered his old \"Herald Tribune\" colleagues' part in exposing the players' strike conspiracy. It would have succeeded, wrote Smith, \"... if Rud Rennie and Stanley Woodward hadn't exposed their intentions in the \"New York Herald Tribune\".\"\n\nRobinson nonetheless became the target of rough physical play by opponents (particularly the Cardinals). At one time, he received a seven-inch gash in his leg from Enos Slaughter. On April 22, 1947, during a game between the Dodgers and the Philadelphia Phillies, Phillies players and manager Ben Chapman called Robinson a \"nigger\" from their dugout and yelled that he should \"go back to the cotton fields\". Rickey later recalled that Chapman \"did more than anybody to unite the Dodgers. When he poured out that string of unconscionable abuse, he solidified and united thirty men.\"\n\nRobinson did, however, receive significant encouragement from several major league players. Robinson named Lee \"Jeep\" Handley, who played for the Phillies at the time, as the first opposing player to wish him well. Dodgers teammate Pee Wee Reese once came to Robinson's defense with the famous line, \"You can hate a man for many reasons. Color is not one of them.\" In 1948, Reese put his arm around Robinson in response to fans who shouted racial slurs at Robinson before a game in Cincinnati. A statue by sculptor William Behrends, unveiled at KeySpan Park on November 1, 2005, commemorates this event by representing Reese with his arm around Robinson. Jewish baseball star Hank Greenberg, who had to deal with racial epithets during his career, also encouraged Robinson. Following an incident where Greenberg collided with Robinson at first base, he \"whispered a few words into Robinson's ear\", which Robinson later characterized as \"words of encouragement.\" Greenberg had advised him to overcome his critics by defeating them in games. Robinson also talked frequently with Larry Doby, who endured his own hardships since becoming the first black player in the American League with the Cleveland Indians, as the two spoke to one another via telephone throughout the season.\n\nRobinson finished the season having played in 151 games for the Dodgers, with a batting average of .297, an on-base percentage of .383, and a .427 slugging percentage. He had 175 hits (scoring 125 runs) including 31 doubles, 5 triples, and 12 home runs, driving in 48 runs for the year. Robinson led the league in sacrifice hits, with 28, and in stolen bases, with 29. His cumulative performance earned him the inaugural Major League Baseball Rookie of the Year Award (separate National and American League Rookie of the Year honors were not awarded until 1949).\n\nFollowing Stanky's trade to the Boston Braves in March 1948, Robinson took over second base, where he logged a .980 fielding percentage that year (second in the National League at the position, fractionally behind Stanky). Robinson had a batting average of .296 and 22 stolen bases for the season. In a 12–7 win against the St. Louis Cardinals on August 29, 1948, he hit for the cycle—a home run, a triple, a double, and a single in the same game. The Dodgers briefly moved into first place in the National League in late August 1948, but they ultimately finished third as the Braves went on to win the league title and lose to the Cleveland Indians in the World Series.\nRacial pressure on Robinson eased in 1948 as a number of other black players entered the major leagues. Larry Doby (who broke the color barrier in the American League on July 5, 1947, just 11 weeks after Robinson) and Satchel Paige played for the Cleveland Indians, and the Dodgers had three other black players besides Robinson. In February 1948, he signed a $12,500 contract (equal to $ today) with the Dodgers; while a significant amount, this was less than Robinson made in the off-season from a vaudeville tour, where he answered pre-set baseball questions, and a speaking tour of the South. Between the tours, he underwent surgery on his right ankle. Because of his off-season activities, Robinson reported to training camp overweight. He lost the weight during training camp, but dieting left him weak at the plate. In 1948, Wendell Smith's book, \"Jackie Robinson: My Own Story\", was released.\n\nIn the spring of 1949, Robinson turned to Hall of Famer George Sisler, working as an advisor to the Dodgers, for batting help. At Sisler's suggestion, Robinson spent hours at a batting tee, learning to hit the ball to right field. Sisler taught Robinson to anticipate a fastball, on the theory that it is easier to subsequently adjust to a slower curveball. Robinson also noted that \"Sisler showed me how to stop lunging, how to check my swing until the last fraction of a second\". The tutelage helped Robinson raise his batting average from .296 in 1948 to .342 in 1949. In addition to his improved batting average, Robinson stole 37 bases that season, was second place in the league for both doubles and triples, and registered 124 runs batted in with 122 runs scored. For the performance Robinson earned the Most Valuable Player Award for the National League. Baseball fans also voted Robinson as the starting second baseman for the 1949 All-Star Game—the first All-Star Game to include black players.\n\nThat year, a song about Robinson by Buddy Johnson, \"Did You See Jackie Robinson Hit That Ball?\", reached number 13 on the charts; Count Basie recorded a famous version. Ultimately, the Dodgers won the National League pennant, but lost in five games to the New York Yankees in the 1949 World Series.\n\nSummer 1949 brought an unwanted distraction for Robinson. In July, he was called to testify before the United States House of Representatives' Committee on Un-American Activities (HUAC) concerning statements made that April by black athlete and actor Paul Robeson. Robinson was reluctant to testify, but he eventually agreed to do so, fearing it might negatively affect his career if he declined.\n\nIn 1950, Robinson led the National League in double plays made by a second baseman with 133. His salary that year was the highest any Dodger had been paid to that point: $35,000 ($ in dollars). He finished the year with 99 runs scored, a .328 batting average, and 12 stolen bases. The year saw the release of a film biography of Robinson's life, \"The Jackie Robinson Story\", in which Robinson played himself, and actress Ruby Dee played Rachael \"Rae\" (Isum) Robinson. The project had been previously delayed when the film's producers refused to accede to demands of two Hollywood studios that the movie include scenes of Robinson being tutored in baseball by a white man. \"The New York Times\" wrote that Robinson, \"doing that rare thing of playing himself in the picture's leading role, displays a calm assurance and composure that might be envied by many a Hollywood star.\"\n\nRobinson's Hollywood exploits, however, did not sit well with Dodgers co-owner Walter O'Malley, who referred to Robinson as \"Rickey's prima donna\". In late 1950, Rickey's contract as the Dodgers' team President expired. Weary of constant disagreements with O'Malley, and with no hope of being re-appointed as President of the Dodgers, Rickey cashed out his one-quarter financial interest in the team, leaving O'Malley in full control of the franchise. Rickey shortly thereafter became general manager of the Pittsburgh Pirates. Robinson was disappointed at the turn of events and wrote a sympathetic letter to Rickey, whom he considered a father figure, stating, \"Regardless of what happens to me in the future, it all can be placed on what you have done and, believe me, I appreciate it.\"\n\nBefore the 1951 season, O'Malley reportedly offered Robinson the job of manager of the Montreal Royals, effective at the end of Robinson's playing career. O'Malley was quoted in the \"Montreal Standard\" as saying, \"Jackie told me that he would be both delighted and honored to tackle this managerial post\"—although reports differed as to whether a position was ever formally offered.\n\nDuring the 1951 season, Robinson led the National League in double plays made by a second baseman for the second year in a row, with 137. He also kept the Dodgers in contention for the 1951 pennant. During the last game of the regular season, in the 13th inning, he had a hit to tie the game, and then won the game with a home run in the 14th. This forced a best-of-three playoff series against the crosstown rival New York Giants.\n\nDespite Robinson's regular-season heroics, the Dodgers lost the pennant on Bobby Thomson's famous home run, known as the Shot Heard 'Round the World, on October 3, 1951. Overcoming his dejection, Robinson dutifully observed Thomson's feet to ensure he touched all the bases. Dodgers sportscaster Vin Scully later noted that the incident showed \"how much of a competitor Robinson was.\" He finished the season with 106 runs scored, a batting average of .335, and 25 stolen bases.\n\nRobinson had what was an average year for him in 1952. He finished the year with 104 runs, a .308 batting average, and 24 stolen bases. He did, however, record a career-high on-base percentage of .436. The Dodgers improved on their performance from the year before, winning the National League pennant before losing the 1952 World Series to the New York Yankees in seven games. That year, on the television show \"Youth Wants to Know\", Robinson challenged the Yankees' general manager, George Weiss, on the racial record of his team, which had yet to sign a black player. Sportswriter Dick Young, whom Robinson had described as a \"bigot\", said, \"If there was one flaw in Jackie, it was the common one. He believed that everything unpleasant that happened to him happened because of his blackness.\" The 1952 season was the last year Robinson was an everyday starter at second base. Afterward, Robinson played variously at first, second, and third bases, shortstop, and in the outfield, with Jim Gilliam, another black player, taking over everyday second base duties. Robinson's interests began to shift toward the prospect of managing a major league team. He had hoped to gain experience by managing in the Puerto Rican Winter League, but according to the \"New York Post\", Commissioner Happy Chandler denied the request.\n\nIn 1953, Robinson had 109 runs, a .329 batting average, and 17 steals, leading the Dodgers to another National League pennant (and another World Series loss to the Yankees, this time in six games). Robinson's continued success spawned a string of death threats. He was not dissuaded, however, from addressing racial issues publicly. That year, he served as editor for \"Our Sports\" magazine, a periodical focusing on Negro sports issues; contributions to the magazine included an article on golf course segregation by Robinson's old friend Joe Louis. Robinson also openly criticized segregated hotels and restaurants that served the Dodger organization; a number of these establishments integrated as a result, including the five-star Chase Park Hotel in St. Louis.\n\nIn 1954, Robinson had 62 runs scored, a .311 batting average, and 7 steals. His best day at the plate was on June 17, when he hit two home runs and two doubles. The following autumn, Robinson won his only championship when the Dodgers beat the New York Yankees in the 1955 World Series. Although the team enjoyed ultimate success, 1955 was the worst year of Robinson's individual career. He hit .256 and stole only 12 bases. The Dodgers tried Robinson in the outfield and as a third baseman, both because of his diminishing abilities and because Gilliam was established at second base. Robinson, then 37 years old, missed 49 games and did not play in Game 7 of the World Series. Robinson missed the game because manager Walter Alston decided to play Gilliam at second and Don Hoak at third base. That season, the Dodgers' Don Newcombe became the first black major league pitcher to win twenty games in a year.\n\nIn 1956, Robinson had 61 runs scored, a .275 batting average, and 12 steals. By then, he had begun to exhibit the effects of diabetes and to lose interest in the prospect of playing or managing professional baseball. Robinson ended his major league career when he struck out to end Game 7 of the 1956 World Series. After the season, Robinson was traded by the Dodgers to the arch-rival New York Giants for Dick Littlefield and $35,000 cash (equal to $ today). The trade, however, was never completed; unbeknownst to the Dodgers, Robinson had already agreed with the president of Chock full o'Nuts to quit baseball and become an executive with the company. Since Robinson had sold exclusive rights to any retirement story to \"Look\" magazine two years previously, his retirement decision was revealed through the magazine, instead of through the Dodgers organization.\n\nRobinson's major league debut brought an end to approximately sixty years of segregation in professional baseball, known as the baseball color line. After World War II, several other forces were also leading the country toward increased equality for blacks, including their accelerated migration to the North, where their political clout grew, and President Harry Truman's desegregation of the military in 1948. Robinson's breaking of the baseball color line and his professional success symbolized these broader changes and demonstrated that the fight for equality was more than simply a political matter. Martin Luther King, Jr. said that he was \"a legend and a symbol in his own time\", and that he \"challenged the dark skies of intolerance and frustration.\" According to historian Doris Kearns Goodwin, Robinson's \"efforts were a monumental step in the civil-rights revolution in America ... [His] accomplishments allowed black and white Americans to be more respectful and open to one another and more appreciative of everyone's abilities.\"\n\nBeginning his major league career at the relatively advanced age of twenty-eight, he played only ten seasons from 1947 to 1956, all of them for the Brooklyn Dodgers. During his career, the Dodgers played in six World Series, and Robinson himself played in six All-Star Games. In 1999, he was posthumously named to the Major League Baseball All-Century Team.\n\nRobinson's career is generally considered to mark the beginning of the post–\"long ball\" era in baseball, in which a reliance on raw power-hitting gave way to balanced offensive strategies that used footspeed to create runs through aggressive baserunning. Robinson exhibited the combination of hitting ability and speed which exemplified the new era. He scored more than 100 runs in six of his ten seasons (averaging more than 110 runs from 1947 to 1953), had a .311 career batting average, a .409 career on-base percentage, a .474 slugging percentage, and substantially more walks than strikeouts (740 to 291). Robinson was one of only two players during the span of 1947–56 to accumulate at least 125 steals while registering a slugging percentage over .425 (Minnie Miñoso was the other). He accumulated 197 stolen bases in total, including 19 steals of home. None of the latter were double steals (in which a player stealing home is assisted by a player stealing another base at the same time). Robinson has been referred to by author David Falkner as \"the father of modern base-stealing\".\n\nHistorical statistical analysis indicates Robinson was an outstanding fielder throughout his ten years in the major leagues and at virtually every position he played. After playing his rookie season at first base, Robinson spent most of his career as a second baseman. He led the league in fielding among second basemen in 1950 and 1951. Toward the end of his career, he played about 2,000 innings at third base and about 1,175 innings in the outfield, excelling at both.\n\nAssessing himself, Robinson said, \"I'm not concerned with your liking or disliking me ... all I ask is that you respect me as a human being.\" Regarding Robinson's qualities on the field, Leo Durocher said, \"Ya want a guy that comes to play. This guy didn't just come to play. He come to beat ya. He come to stuff the goddamn bat right up your ass.\"\n\nRobinson portrayed himself in the 1950 motion picture \"The Jackie Robinson Story\". Other portrayals include:\n\nRobinson was also the subject of a 2016 PBS documentary, \"Jackie Robinson\", which was directed by Ken Burns and features Jamie Foxx doing voice-over as Robinson.\n\nRobinson once told future Hall of Fame inductee Hank Aaron that \"the game of baseball is great, but the greatest thing is what you do after your career is over.\" Robinson retired from baseball at age 37 on January 5, 1957. Later that year, after he complained of numerous physical ailments, he was diagnosed with diabetes, a disease that also afflicted his brothers. Although Robinson adopted an insulin injection regimen, the state of medicine at the time could not prevent the continued deterioration of Robinson's physical condition from the disease.\n\nIn his first year of eligibility for the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1962, Robinson encouraged voters to consider only his on-field qualifications, rather than his cultural impact on the game. He was elected on the first ballot, becoming the first black player inducted into the Cooperstown museum.\n\nIn 1965, Robinson served as an analyst for ABC's \"Major League Baseball Game of the Week\" telecasts, the first black person to do so. In 1966, Robinson was hired as general manager for the short-lived Brooklyn Dodgers of the Continental Football League. In 1972, he served as a part-time commentator on Montreal Expos telecasts.\n\nOn June 4, 1972, the Dodgers retired his uniform number, 42, alongside those of Roy Campanella (39) and Sandy Koufax (32). From 1957 to 1964, Robinson was the vice president for personnel at Chock full o'Nuts; he was the first black person to serve as vice president of a major American corporation. Robinson always considered his business career as advancing the cause of black people in commerce and industry. Robinson also chaired the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People's (NAACP) million-dollar Freedom Fund Drive in 1957, and served on the organization's board until 1967. In 1964, he helped found, with Harlem businessman Dunbar McLaurin, Freedom National Bank—a black-owned and operated commercial bank based in Harlem. He also served as the bank's first chairman of the board. In 1970, Robinson established the Jackie Robinson Construction Company to build housing for low-income families.\n\nRobinson was active in politics throughout his post-baseball life. He identified himself as a political independent, although he held conservative opinions on several issues, including the Vietnam War (he once wrote to Martin Luther King, Jr. to defend the Johnson Administration's military policy). After supporting Richard Nixon in his 1960 presidential race against John F. Kennedy, Robinson later praised Kennedy effusively for his stance on civil rights. Robinson was angered by conservative Republican opposition to the Civil Rights Act of 1964, though a higher percentage of Democrats voted against it in both the House and Senate. He became one of six national directors for Nelson Rockefeller's unsuccessful campaign to be nominated as the Republican candidate for the 1964 presidential election. After the party nominated Senator Barry Goldwater of Arizona instead, Robinson left the party's convention commenting that he now had \"a better understanding of how it must have felt to be a Jew in Hitler's Germany\". He later became special assistant for community affairs when Rockefeller was re-elected governor of New York in 1966. Switching his allegiance to the Democrats, he subsequently supported Hubert Humphrey against Nixon in 1968.\n\nRobinson protested against the major leagues' ongoing lack of minority managers and central office personnel, and he turned down an invitation to appear in an old-timers' game at Yankee Stadium in 1969. He made his final public appearance on October 15, 1972, throwing the ceremonial first pitch before Game 2 of the World Series at Riverfront Stadium in Cincinnati. He gratefully accepted a plaque honoring the twenty-fifth anniversary of his MLB debut, but also commented, \"I'm going to be tremendously more pleased and more proud when I look at that third base coaching line one day and see a black face managing in baseball.\" This wish was only fulfilled after Robinson's death: following the 1974 season, the Cleveland Indians gave their managerial post to Frank Robinson (no relation to Jackie), a Hall of Fame-bound player who would go on to manage three other teams. Despite the success of these two Robinsons and other black players, the number of African-American players in Major League Baseball has declined since the 1970s.\n\nAfter Robinson's retirement from baseball, his wife Rachel Robinson pursued a career in academic nursing. She became an assistant professor at the Yale School of Nursing and director of nursing at the Connecticut Mental Health Center. She also served on the board of the Freedom National Bank until it closed in 1990. She and Jackie had three children: Jackie Robinson Jr. (1946–1971), Sharon Robinson (b. 1950), and David Robinson (b. 1952).\n\nRobinson's eldest son, Jackie Robinson Jr., had emotional trouble during his childhood and entered special education at an early age. He enrolled in the Army in search of a disciplined environment, served in the Vietnam War, and was wounded in action on November 19, 1965. After his discharge, he struggled with drug problems. Robinson Jr. eventually completed the treatment program at Daytop Village in Seymour, Connecticut, and became a counselor at the institution. On June 17, 1971, he was killed in an automobile accident at age 24. The experience with his son's drug addiction turned Robinson Sr. into an avid anti-drug crusader toward the end of his life.\n\nRobinson did not long outlive his son. Complications from heart disease and diabetes weakened Robinson and made him almost blind by middle age. On October 24, 1972, nine days after his appearance at the World Series, Robinson died of a heart attack at his home on 95 Cascade Road in North Stamford, Connecticut; he was 53 years old. Robinson's funeral service on October 27, 1972, at Upper Manhattan's Riverside Church adjacent to Grant's Tomb in Morningside Heights, attracted 2,500 mourners. Many of his former teammates and other famous baseball players served as pallbearers, and the Rev. Jesse Jackson gave the eulogy. Tens of thousands of people lined the subsequent procession route to Robinson's interment site at Cypress Hills Cemetery in Brooklyn, New York, where he was buried next to his son Jackie and mother-in-law Zellee Isum. Twenty-five years after Robinson's death, the Interboro Parkway was renamed the Jackie Robinson Parkway in his memory. This parkway bisects the cemetery in close proximity to Robinson's gravesite.\n\nAfter Robinson's death, his widow founded the Jackie Robinson Foundation, and she remains an officer as of 2018. On April 15, 2008, she announced that in 2010 the foundation will be opening a museum devoted to Jackie in Lower Manhattan. Robinson's daughter, Sharon, became a midwife, educator, director of educational programming for MLB, and the author of two books about her father. His youngest son, David, who has six children, is a coffee grower and social activist in Tanzania.\n\nAccording to a poll conducted in 1947, Robinson was the second most popular man in the country, behind Bing Crosby. In 1999, he was named by \"Time\" on its list of the . Also in 1999, he ranked number 44 on the \"Sporting News\" list of Baseball's 100 Greatest Players and was elected to the Major League Baseball All-Century Team as the top vote-getter among second basemen. Baseball writer Bill James, in \"The New Bill James Historical Baseball Abstract\", ranked Robinson as the 32nd greatest player of all time strictly on the basis of his performance on the field, noting that he was one of the top players in the league throughout his career. Robinson was among the 25 charter members of UCLA's Athletics Hall of Fame in 1984. In 2002, Molefi Kete Asante included Robinson on his list of 100 Greatest African Americans. Robinson has also been honored by the United States Postal Service on three separate postage stamps, in 1982, 1999, and 2000.\n\nThe City of Pasadena has recognized Robinson in several ways. Brookside Park, situated next to the Rose Bowl, features a baseball diamond and stadium named Jackie Robinson Field. The city's Human Services Department operates the Jackie Robinson Center, a community outreach center that provides health services. In 1997, a $325,000 bronze sculpture (equal to $ today) by artists Ralph Helmick, Stu Schecter, and John Outterbridge depicting oversized nine-foot busts of Robinson and his brother Mack was erected at Garfield Avenue, across from the main entrance of Pasadena City Hall; a granite footprint lists multiple donors to the commission project, which was organized by the Robinson Memorial Foundation and supported by members of the Robinson family.\n\nMajor League Baseball has honored Robinson many times since his death. In 1987, both the National and American League Rookie of the Year Awards were renamed the \"Jackie Robinson Award\" in honor of the first recipient (Robinson's Major League Rookie of the Year Award in 1947 encompassed both leagues). On April 15, 1997, Robinson's jersey number, 42, was retired throughout Major League Baseball, the first time any jersey number had been retired throughout one of the four major American sports leagues. Under the terms of the retirement, a grandfather clause allowed the handful of players who wore number 42 to continue doing so in tribute to Robinson, until such time as they subsequently changed teams or jersey numbers. This affected players such as the Mets' Butch Huskey and Boston's Mo Vaughn. The Yankees' Mariano Rivera, who retired at the end of the 2013 season, was the last player in Major League Baseball to wear jersey number 42 on a regular basis. Since 1997, only Wayne Gretzky's number 99, retired by the NHL in 2000, has been retired league-wide. There have also been calls for MLB to retire number 21 league-wide in honor of Roberto Clemente, a sentiment opposed by the Robinson family. The Hispanics Across America advocacy group wants Clemente's number set aside the way the late Robinson's No. 42 was in 1997, but Sharon Robinson maintained the position that such an honor should remain in place for Jackie Robinson only.\n\nAs an exception to the retired-number policy, MLB began honoring Robinson by allowing players to wear number 42 on April 15, Jackie Robinson Day, which is an annual observance that started in 2004. For the 60th anniversary of Robinson's major league debut, MLB invited players to wear the number 42 on Jackie Robinson Day in 2007. The gesture was originally the idea of outfielder Ken Griffey, Jr., who sought Rachel Robinson's permission to wear the number. After receiving her permission, Commissioner Bud Selig not only allowed Griffey to wear the number, but also extended an invitation to all major league teams to do the same. Ultimately, more than 200 players wore number 42, including the entire rosters of the Los Angeles Dodgers, New York Mets, Houston Astros, Philadelphia Phillies, St. Louis Cardinals, Milwaukee Brewers, and Pittsburgh Pirates. The tribute was continued in 2008, when, during games on April 15, all members of the Mets, Cardinals, Washington Nationals, and Tampa Bay Rays wore Robinson's number 42. On June 25, 2008, MLB installed a new plaque for Robinson at the Baseball Hall of Fame commemorating his off-the-field impact on the game as well as his playing statistics. In 2009, all uniformed personnel (players, managers, coaches, and umpires) wore number 42 on April 15.\n\nAt the November 2006 groundbreaking for Citi Field, the new ballpark for the New York Mets, it was announced that the main entrance, modeled on the one in Brooklyn's old Ebbets Field, would be called the Jackie Robinson Rotunda. The rotunda was dedicated at the opening of Citi Field on April 16, 2009. It honors Robinson with large quotations spanning the inner curve of the facade and features a large freestanding statue of his number, 42, which has become an attraction in itself. Mets owner Fred Wilpon announced that the Mets—in conjunction with Citigroup and the Jackie Robinson Foundation—will create a Jackie Robinson Museum and Learning Center, located at the headquarters of the Jackie Robinson Foundation at One Hudson Square, along Canal Street in lower Manhattan. Along with the museum, scholarships will be awarded to \"young people who live by and embody Jackie's ideals.\" The museum hopes to open by 2019. At Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles, a statue of Robinson was introduced in 2017.\n\nSince 2004, the Aflac National High School Baseball Player of the Year has been presented the \"Jackie Robinson Award\".\n\nRobinson has also been recognized outside of baseball. In December 1956, the NAACP recognized him with the Spingarn Medal, which it awards annually for the highest achievement by an African-American. President Ronald Reagan posthumously awarded Robinson the Presidential Medal of Freedom on March 26, 1984, and on March 2, 2005, President George W. Bush gave Robinson's widow the Congressional Gold Medal, the highest civilian award bestowed by Congress; Robinson was only the second baseball player to receive the award, after Roberto Clemente. On August 20, 2007, California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger and his wife, Maria Shriver, announced that Robinson was inducted into the California Hall of Fame, located at The California Museum for History, Women and the Arts in Sacramento.\n\nA number of buildings have been named in Robinson's honor. The UCLA Bruins baseball team plays in Jackie Robinson Stadium, which, because of the efforts of Jackie's brother Mack, features a memorial statue of Robinson by sculptor Richard H. Ellis. The stadium also unveiled a new mural of Robinson by Mike Sullivan on April 14, 2013. City Island Ballpark in Daytona Beach, Florida was renamed Jackie Robinson Ballpark in 1990 and a statue of Robinson with two children stands in front of the ballpark. His wife Rachel was present for the dedication on September 15. 1990. A number of facilities at Pasadena City College (successor to PJC) are named in Robinson's honor, including Robinson Field, a football/soccer/track facility named jointly for Robinson and his brother Mack. The New York Public School system has named a middle school after Robinson, and Dorsey High School plays at a Los Angeles football stadium named after him. In 1976, his home in Brooklyn, the Jackie Robinson House, was declared a National Historic Landmark. Brooklyn residents want to turn his home into a city landmark. Robinson also has an asteroid named after him, 4319 Jackierobinson. In 1997, the United States Mint issued a Jackie Robinson commemorative silver dollar, and five-dollar gold coin. That same year, New York City renamed the Interboro Parkway in his honor.\n\nIn 2011, the U.S. placed a plaque at Robinson's Montreal home to honor the ending of segregation in baseball. The house, at 8232 avenue de Gaspé near Jarry Park, was Robinson's residence when he played for the Montreal Royals during 1946. In a letter read during the ceremony, Rachel Robinson, Jackie's widow, wrote: \"I remember Montreal and that house very well and have always had warm feeling for that great city. Before Jack and I moved to Montreal, we had just been through some very rough treatment in the racially biased South during spring training in Florida. In the end, Montreal was the perfect place for him to get his start. We never had a threatening or unpleasant experience there. The people were so welcoming and saw Jack as a player and as a man.\"\n\nOn November 22, 2014, UCLA announced that it would officially retire the number 42 across all university sports, effective immediately. While Robinson wore several different numbers during his UCLA career, the school chose 42 because it had become indelibly identified with him. The only sport this did not affect was men's basketball, which had previously retired the number for Walt Hazzard (although Kevin Love was actually the last player in that sport to wear 42, with Hazzard's blessing). In a move paralleling that of MLB when it retired the number, UCLA allowed three athletes (in women's soccer, softball, and football) who were already wearing 42 to continue to do so for the remainder of their UCLA careers. The school also announced it would prominently display the number at all of its athletic venues.\n\nA jersey Robinson brought home with him in 1947 after his rookie season was sold at an auction for $2.05 million on November 19, 2017. The price was the highest ever paid for a post-World War II jersey.\n\n\n, or Retrosheet\n"}
{"id": "12075777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12075777", "title": "John B. Earle", "text": "John B. Earle\n\nJohn Baylis Earle (October 23, 1766 – February 3, 1836) was a U.S. Representative from South Carolina, nephew of Elias Earle and cousin of Samuel Earle.\n\nBorn on the North Carolina side of the North Pacolet River, near Landrum, South Carolina, Earle moved to South Carolina. He completed preparatory studies.\nHe served as a drummer boy and soldier during the Revolutionary War.\nHe engaged in agricultural pursuits.\n\nEarle was elected as a Democratic-Republican to the Eighth Congress (March 4, 1803 – March 3, 1805).\nHe was re-elected in 1804, but declined the seat.\nHe resumed agricultural pursuits.\nHe served as adjutant and inspector general of South Carolina for sixteen years.\nHe served throughout the War of 1812.\nHe served as member of the nullification convention of 1832 and 1833.\nHe died in Anderson County, South Carolina, February 3, 1836 and was interred in the cemetery on his plantation, \"Silver Glade,\" in Anderson County.\n"}
{"id": "21616280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21616280", "title": "Judson Gilbert II", "text": "Judson Gilbert II\n\nJudson \"Jud\" Gilbert II (born January 22, 1952) was a member of the Michigan Legislature. Immediately prior to this term (2010-2012) he was a member of the Michigan State Senate, where he has served since 2002. Prior to that he was a member of the Michigan House of Representatives from 1998 to 2002. Gilbert is a Roman Catholic. In 2010 Gilbert was elected to a third term in the Michigan State House.\n\nGilbert's House district covered most of St. Clair County. His former Senate District covered all of St. Clair County and Lapeer County He is a native of Algonac. He graduated from Algonac High School and St. Clair County Community College. He later went to Wayne State University, where he studied mortuary science. He then spent several years as a funeral home director.\n\nGilbert is term limited and thus not running for re-election in 2010. However, since the term limit in the state house is 3 terms and he only served two, Gilbert is running for the State House District 81.\n\nWhile in the State Senate Gilbert was an early fighter for replacing the Single Business Tax and was endorsed by the state chamber of commerce for these actions. Gilbert is the chair of the Senate Transportation Committee and as such has been involved in negotiations to build the Detroit River International Crossing. He has stalled this project to some extent with his inquiries about particulars of the project, such as who will pay the owners of the land condemned to build the bridge crossings and what will happen if toll revenue is below projections.\n\n"}
{"id": "3699707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3699707", "title": "Kristang people", "text": "Kristang people\n\nThe Kristang (otherwise known as \"Portuguese-Eurasians\" or \"Malacca Portuguese\") are a creole ethnic group of people of mixed Portuguese and Malaccan descent based in Malaysia and to some extent in Singapore. People of this ethnicity have, besides Portuguese, a strong Dutch heritage, as well as some British, Malay, Chinese and Indian heritage due to intermarriages, which is common among the Kristang. In addition, due to the Portuguese Inquisition in the region, a lot of the Jews of Malacca assimilated into the Kristang community. The creole group arose in Malacca (Malaysia) between the 16th and 17th centuries, when the city was a port and base of the Portuguese Empire. Some descendants speak a distinctive Kristang language or Malacca Portuguese, a creole based on Portuguese. Today the government classifies them as Portuguese Eurasians.\n\nThe Kristang language is formally called Malacca-Melayu Portuguese Creole, made up of elements of each. The Malay language, or \"Bahasa Melayu\", has changed to incorporate many Kristang words. For example, \"garfu\" (Portuguese: \"garfo\") is Kristang for \"fork\" and \"almari\" (Portuguese: \"armário\") is Kristang for \"cupboard\"; the Malay language incorporated these Kristang words whole.\n\nScholars believe the Kristang community originated in part from liaisons and marriages between Portuguese men (sailors, soldiers, traders, etc.) and local native women. The men came to Malacca during the age of Portuguese explorations, and in the early colonial years, Portuguese women did not settle in the colony. Nowadays intermarriage occurs more frequently between Kristang and people of Chinese and Indian ethnicity rather than Malay because of endogamous religious laws. These require non-Muslims intending to marry Malay-Muslims first to convert to Islam. Eurasians are not always willing to alter their religious and cultural identity in this way. In earlier centuries, Portuguese and local Malays were able to marry without such conversions, because such religious laws did not exist.\n\nThe name \"Kristang\" is sometimes incorrectly used for other people of mixed European and Asian descent presently living in Malaysia and Singapore. This includes people of Portuguese descent who were not part of the historical Kristang community, and people with other European ancestry, such as Dutch or British.\n\nThe name comes from the Portuguese creole \"Kristang\" (Christian), derived from the Portuguese \"Cristão\". A derogatory term for the Malacca Portuguese community was \"Gragok\" (slang term for Portuguese \"camarão\" (shrimp), referring to the fact that the Portuguese Malaccans were traditionally shrimp fishermen). In the native tongue, they also call themselves Gente Kristang (Christian people).\n\nMalacca was a major destination in the great wave of sea expeditions launched by Portugal around the turn of the 16th century. It eventually was controlled as part of the Portuguese Empire. The first Portuguese expedition to reach Malacca landed in 1507. The \"Sejarah Melayu\" (\"Malay Annals\") noted that the Malays first called them \"Bengali Puteh\" (White Bengalis), as the Portuguese brought to mind traders from Bengal but were more pale skinned. In the early years, the Malays called the Portuguese Serani (a Malay contraction of the Arabic \"Nasrani\", meaning followers of Jesus the Nazarene). A story was recorded that the Portuguese landing party inadvertently insulted the Malaccan sultan by placing a garland of flowers on his head, and he had them detained. In 1511, a Portuguese fleet came from India to free the landing party and conquer Malacca.\n\nAt that time, Portuguese women were barred from travelling overseas due to superstition about women on ships, as well as the substantial danger of the sea route around Cape of Good Hope. Following the Portuguese colonization of Malacca (Malaysia) in 1511, the Portuguese government encouraged their explorers to marry local indigenous women, under a policy set by Afonso de Albuquerque, then Viceroy of India. To promote settlement, the King of Portugal granted freeman status and exemption from Crown taxes to Portuguese men (known as \"casados\", or \"married men\") who ventured overseas and married local women. With Albuquerque's encouragement, mixed marriages flourished and some 200 were recorded by 1604. By creating families, the Portuguese men would make more settled communities, with families whose children would be Catholic and loyal to the Crown.\n\nA powerful sea power, the rising Dutch nation took Malacca from the Portuguese in 1641. This coincided with the Portuguese Restoration War in Portugal that ended the 60-year period known as the \"Union of the Crowns\" (1580–1640), when the crown of Portugal was joined with the crown of Spain by personal union. Almost all political contact between Portugal and Malacca ended, and a large number of people of Portuguese descent in the city were evacuated to Batavia(now Jakarta), the Dutch East India Company headquarters, as war captives, where they settled in an area called \"Kampung Tugu\". Portuguese trade relations with the former colonial outpost of Macau have continued to this day.\n\nEven after Portugal lost Malacca in 1641, the Kristang community largely preserved its traditions, practicing Catholicism and using the Portuguese language within the community. Some Dutch crypto-Catholics were also absorbed into the community during this time.\n\nThe Kristang community still has cultural and linguistic continuities with today's Portugal, especially with the Minho region, from where many early settlers emigrated. The Kristang continue to hold some church services in Portuguese, and Malaysians, including themselves, often refer to the community as \"Portuguese\". As the Kristang language is not taught in schools, it is nearing extinction, with the exception of within the Portuguese Settlement in \"Ujong Pasir Malacca\".\n\nThe Kristang people in Malaysia do not have full \"bumiputra\" status, a status which applies to indigenous ethnic groups. However they have been given the privilege to apply to be members of a trust scheme known as \"Amanah Saham Bumiputra\". This is a privilege shared by Malaysians of Thai descent. The government sponsored this program to help the Malays increase their participation in the national economy. The Kristang community in Singapore is part of a larger umbrella group, known generically as the Eurasian community. Some members have emigrated to Perth, Western Australia over the past three decades.\n\nThe Portuguese Settlement is a thriving Kristang community in Malacca, established in 1933 with the goal of gathering the dispersed Kristang community and preserving their culture. A simple village of poor fishermen for many decades, it has recently become a major tourist attraction. This has helped to improve the income of the Kristang population.\n\nSince Portuguese times, the Kristang have been living by the sea. It is still an important part of their culture. Even today, with only 10 percent of the community earning their living by fishing, many men go fishing to supplement their income or just to relax with their neighbours. Traditionally men fish from small wooden \"perahus\", or by pushing the \"langgiang\", a traditional bamboo-poled shrimp net through the shallows.\n\nKristang traditional music and dance, such as the \"Branyo\" and the \"Farrapeira\" are descendents of Portuguese folk dances. The Branyo, descends from the southern Portuguese folk dance Corridinho, and can be easily mistaken for the Malay \"Joget\" dance, which is believed to have developed from the Branyo. The adoption of western music instruments and musical scales by traditional Malay and Indian orchestras suggests a strong Portuguese influence. The most popular branyo tune, \"Jingkli Nona\", is regarded as the unofficial \"anthem\" for Portuguese Eurasians.\n\nKristang or Malacca Portuguese cuisine consists of heavy local influence, with the additions of stews and the inclusion of pork and seafood in the diet, and rice is the staple food. Among the many dishes in Kristang cuisine, the most popular is Cari Debal. Other popular delicacies include Portuguese grilled fish, pineapple prawn Curry, Cari Seccu (dry curry), Caldu Pescador (Fisherman's soup), Sambal Chili Bedri (green chilli sambal), Soy Limang, Porku Tambrinyu (pork tamarind stew), Achar Pesi (fish pickle), Pang Su Si (Su Si Bun), and Sugee Cake. As is the custom, Kristang people commonly eat using their hands instead of utensils. It is similar to the Eurasian cuisine of Singapore and Malaysia\n\nThe Kristang people traditionally used Portuguese and Christian first names, while their surnames were Portuguese. Among the many common surnames are Fernandes, Lopes, Santa Maria, Siqueira, De Costa, Pereira, Teixeira, Gomes and Pinto.\n\nIn general the Kristang practice Roman Catholicism. Christmas (\"Natal\") is the most festive occasion of the year, when many Kristang families get together to celebrate by eating seasonal dishes, singing carols and \"branyok\", and revelling in \"saudadi\". Like many other Portuguese-speaking Catholic communities around the world, the Kristang also celebrate a string of major Saints' days at the end of June, beginning with St. John (\"San Juang\") on 24 June and closing with St. Peter (\"San Pedro\"), the fishermen's patron saint, on 29 June. The June festival of St. John's village is a major tourist attraction of Malacca. Tourists come to observe the festivities, which are religiously based.\n\nThe Portuguese ruled Malacca from 1511 to 1641. About 300 Portuguese words were adopted in the Malay language. These include:\n\nMalaysian\nin Malaysia and other countries (Singapore, Australia, Macau).\nSingaporean\nAustralian\nBritish\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32394431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32394431", "title": "Ladislav Hejdánek", "text": "Ladislav Hejdánek\n\nLadislav Hejdánek (born 10 May 1927) is a Czech philosopher and a proponent of Charter 77. He was born in Prague and graduated from the Charles University in Prague. In 1952 he attained a degree in philosophy for a dissertation \"Truth and its ontological premisses\". During the period of 1956-68 he worked at Prague Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology. Then he took a position at the Institute for Philosophy of the Czechoslovak Academy of Sciences, but was expelled in 1971.\n\nIn 1985, Ladislav Hejdánek established the journal \"Reflexe. Časopis pro filosofii a teologii\". In 1990, he was habilitated at the Charles University in Prague, and two years later became a professor of that university.\n\n"}
{"id": "40290971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40290971", "title": "Laurie Shrage", "text": "Laurie Shrage\n\nLaurie J. Shrage (born December 4, 1953) is an American political and moral philosopher whose analysis of the agendas for social change advanced by gender and sexual dissidents has been influential.\n\nShrage has taught at Howard University, Lake Forest College, Scripps College, California State Polytechnic University, and now teaches at Florida International University. She earned her B.A. (1975) from the University of California, Davis and her M.A. (1979) and Ph.D (1983) from the University of California, San Diego, Philosophy.\n\nIn her first book, \"Moral Dilemmas of Feminism: Prostitution, Adultery, and Abortion\" (1994), Shrage argued for empirically informed philosophical analyses of moral problems. She argued against the possibility of offering a universal social ethics and, as an alternative, she developed an interpretive approach to moral problems, based in part on the work of Charles Taylor.\n\nHer second book, \"Abortion and Social Responsibility: Depolarizing the Debate\" (2003), argues for reconsidering the American Law Institute’s model abortion law developed prior to Roe v. Wade. Shrage explores abortion policies around the world, the history of reform and repeal movements in the U.S., moral and legal debates, and ethnographies of pro-life and pro-choice groups, and then recommends restricting elective abortions to roughly the end of the first trimester, in order to balance competing rights and values.\n\nShrage was a Laurance S. Rockefeller Visiting Fellow at the Center for Human Values at Princeton University (2011-12) and a fellow at the Stanford Humanities Center (1998-99). She was a co-editor of the journal from 1998-2003. She has served as the American Philosophical Association’s Ombuds for Non-Discrimination, 2008-11, and as the Program Chair for the American Philosophical Association, Pacific Division meeting in 2001. She was Director of Women’s Studies at FIU (2008-11).\n\nShrage's work evaluates public policies on markets in sexual services and expressive materials, reproductive health care, legal gender identity, and marriage. She is more interested in the active application of philosophical theory to inform public debate - in what she terms \"empirically informed philosophy\" - than she is in focusing her work on a particular school of philosophical thought. She suggests that moral and political philosophers should pay more attention to historical and scientific accounts of political and moral problems than they currently do.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17421426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17421426", "title": "List of British people with German ancestry", "text": "List of British people with German ancestry\n\nThis is a list of notable British people with German ancestry.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41524834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41524834", "title": "List of Miss World Philippines titleholders", "text": "List of Miss World Philippines titleholders\n\nMiss World Philippines is the annual pageant that selects representative of the Philippines to Miss World pageant.\n\nFrom 1966 to 1976, the Miss Republic of the Philippines pageant was held to select the representative of the Philippines to the Miss World Pageant.\n\nFrom 1977 to 1991, the official representatives came from the Mutya ng Pilipinas pageant.\n\nFrom 1992 to 2010, the official representatives came from Binibining Pilipinas pageant.\n\nIn 2011, Julia Morley ended the contract with Binibining Pilipinas and awarded the franchise to Cory Quirino to hold Miss World Philippines, a separate national pageant for the Philippines' representatives to the Miss World pageant.\n\nUnder CQGQI, the Philippines won one Miss World crown (see table below).\n\nThe current title holder of Miss World Philippines is Laura Victoria Lehmann.\n\nThe following is a list of Miss World Philippines titleholders:\n"}
{"id": "13948440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13948440", "title": "List of gay, lesbian or bisexual people: Sd–Si", "text": "List of gay, lesbian or bisexual people: Sd–Si\n\n\"Parent article:\" List of gay, lesbian or bisexual people;\n\"Siblings:\"\n\nThe historical concept and definition of sexual orientation varies and has changed greatly over time; for example the word \"gay\" was not used to describe sexual orientation until the mid 20th century. A number of different classification schemes have been used to describe sexual orientation since the mid-19th century, and scholars have often defined the term \"sexual orientation\" in divergent ways. Indeed, several studies have found that much of the research about sexual orientation has failed to define the term at all, making it difficult to reconcile the results of different studies. However, most definitions include a psychological component (such as the direction of an individual's erotic desire) and/or a behavioural component (which focuses on the sex of the individual's sexual partner/s). Some prefer to simply follow an individual's self-definition or identity.\n\nThe high prevalence of people from the West on this list may be due to societal attitudes towards homosexuality. The Pew Research Center's 2003 Global Attitudes Survey found that \"[p]eople in Africa and the Middle East strongly object to societal acceptance of homosexuality. But there is far greater tolerance for homosexuality in major Latin American countries such as Mexico, Argentina, Bolivia and Brazil. Opinion in Europe is split between West and East. Majorities in every Western European nation surveyed say homosexuality should be accepted by society, while most Russians, Poles and Ukrainians disagree. Americans are divided–a thin majority (51 percent) believes homosexuality should be accepted, while 42 percent disagree.\"\n\nThis is a partial list of confirmed famous people who were or are gay, lesbian or bisexual. Famous people who are simply rumored to be gay, lesbian, or bisexual are not listed.\n"}
{"id": "51144811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51144811", "title": "List of people from Negros Occidental", "text": "List of people from Negros Occidental\n\nBelow is a list of notable people who were born in Negros Occidental, or those who lived there for an extended period.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6328637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6328637", "title": "Ludo Dierckxsens", "text": "Ludo Dierckxsens\n\nLudo Dierckxsens (born 14 October 1964 in Geel, Flanders) is a former Belgian racing cyclist. He is best known for winning the 11th stage of the 1999 Tour de France, while competing for .\n\nLudo Dierckxsens won the 11th stage of the 1999 Tour de France. After this stage victory, Dierckxens went to take the obligatory doping tests. When the doctors asked him the routine question if he had taken any products which might cause a positive test result, Dierckxens replied that he had taken tetracosactide (Synacthen) in the Tour of Germany. He claimed to have a prescription for them, but his team did not know about this, and sent him home a few days later. The doping tests returned negative.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "471623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=471623", "title": "M. G. Ramachandran", "text": "M. G. Ramachandran\n\nMarudur Gopalan Ramachandran (17 January 1917 – 24 December 1987), popularly known as M. G. R., was an Indian actor, filmmaker and politician who served as the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu for ten years between 1977 and 1987. He is a cultural icon in the state and is regarded as one of the most influential actors of the Tamil film industry. He was popularly known as \"Makkal Thilagam\" (People's King) as he was popular with the masses.He was a philanthropist and a humanitarian icon.\n\nIn his youth, Ramachandran and his elder brother M. G. Chakrapani became members of a drama troupe to support their family. Influenced by Gandhian ideals, MGR joined the Indian National Congress. After a few years of acting in plays, he made his film debut in the 1936 film \"Sathi Leelavathi\" in a supporting role. By the late 1940s, he graduated to lead roles and for the next three decades dominated the Tamil film industry. He became a member of the C. N. Annadurai-led Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK party) and rapidly rose through its ranks, using his enormous popularity as a film star to build a large political base. In 1972, three years after Annadurai's death, he left the DMK, then led by Karunanidhi, MGR's once friend and now rival, to form his own party—the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK). Five years later, he steered an AIADMK-led alliance to victory in the 1977 election, routing the DMK in the process. He became Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, the first film actor to become a chief minister in India. Except for a six-month interregnum in 1980, when his government was overthrown by the Union government, he remained as chief minister till his death in 1987, leading the AIADMK to two more electoral triumphs in 1980 and 1984.\n\nRamachandran's autobiography \"Naan Yaen Piranthaen\" (\"Why I was Born\") was published in 2003 in two volumes.\n\nM.G.R. was born in Kandy, Sri Lanka, to a Malayali family of Melakkath Gopalan and Maruthur Satyabhama from Palakkad, in the modern-day state of Kerala. \n\nIn his early days, M.G.R. was a devout Hindu and a devotee of Lord Sri Murugan, and his mother's favourite god Lord Sri Guruvayurappan. After joining the DMK, he turned a rationalist.\nM.G.R's first marriage was to Chitarikulam Bargavi, also known as Thangamani, who died early due to an illness. He later married for the second time, to Satyanandavati, who also died soon after marriage due to tuberculosis. In 1965, M.G.R. married for the third time, this time to V. N. Janaki a former Tamil film actress. Janaki divorced her husband, Ganapathy, to marry M.G.R.\n\nRamachandran made his film debut in 1936, in the film \"Sathi Leelavathi\", directed by Ellis Dungan, an American-born film director. Generally starring in romance or action films, MGR got his big breakthrough in the 1950 film \"Manthiri Kumari\", written by M. Karunanidhi. Soon he rose to popularity with the 1954 film \"Malaikkallan\". He acted as hero in the Tamil film industry's first ever Gevacolor movie, the 1955 \"Alibabavum 40 Thirudargalum\". He rose to become the heartthrob of millions of Tamilians with movies such as \"Thirudadhe\", \"Enga Veettu Pillai\", \"Aayirathil Oruvan\", \"Anbe Vaa\", \"Mahadevi\", \"Panam Padaithavan\", \"Ulagam Sutrum Vaalibhan\", etc. He won the National Film Award for Best Actor for the film \"Rickshawkaran\" in 1972. He acted in many movies that appealed to the direct sentiments of the common man and the rich as well. His 1973 blockbuster \"Ulagam Sutrum Vaalibhan\" broke the previous box office records of his movies. It was one of the few movies filmed abroad in those days. It was shot in Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand, Hong Kong and Japan. The DMK tried very hard to illegally prevent the screening of the film using strong-arm tactics, but ultimately failed in its attempt. His acting career ended in 1987 with his last film \"Ullagam Suthi Paru\", in which he acted even though he had been diagnosed with kidney failure.\n\nNarayana Padaiyatchi Rathnam a pioneer of Tamil stage drama and K.P. Kesavan were chief mentors of Ramachandran in his acting career.\n\nMGR was a member of the Congress Party till 1953, and he used to wear khādī. In 1953 MGR joined the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) attracted by founder C.N. Annadurai. He became a vocal Tamil and Dravidian nationalist and prominent member of the DMK (\"Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam\" aka Dravidian Progressive Federation). He added glamour to the Dravidian movement which was sweeping Tamil Nadu. MGR became a member of the state Legislative Council in 1962. At the age of 50, he was first elected to the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly in 1967. After the death of his mentor, Annadurai, MGR became the treasurer of DMK in 1969 after Muthuvel Karunanidhi became the Chief Minister.\n\nThe actor and politician M. R. Radha and MGR had worked in 25 films together. On 12 January 1967, Radha and a producer visited MGR to talk about a future film project. During the conversation, M. R. Radha stood up and shot MGR in his left ear twice and then tried to shoot himself.\n\nAfter the operation, MGR's voice changed. Since he had been shot in his ear, MGR lost hearing in his left ear and had ringing in the ear problems. These further surfaced in 1983 when he had kidney problems. When Sinnappa Devar paid his first visit to see MGR at the hospital after the shooting incident he paid MGR an advance for MGR's next movie. After getting released from the hospital and finishing \"Arasakattalai\", MGR acted in Devar's movie \"Vivasaayee\" against doctors' advice. Due to the operation, MGR's speaking parts in the movie \"Kaavalkaaran\" were reduced. This was the only movie in which MGR spoke with old and new voices between scenes: MGR was acting in the film \"Kaavalkaran\" in 1967 opposite J. Jayalalithaa when the shooting occurred.\n\n\"Petralthaan Pillaya\" was the last movie of MGR-MR Radha together. Shooting ended just few days before MGR was shot. The bullet was permanently lodged in his neck and his voice damaged. Within hours of the shooting, some 50,000 fans had gathered at the hospital where MGR had been taken. People cried in the streets. For six weeks, he lay in the hospital as fans awaited each report of his health. He was visited by a steady stream of commoners and luminaries of film industry, polity and bureaucracy. From his hospital bed, he conducted his campaign for the Madras Legislative Assembly. He won twice the number of votes polled by his Congress rival and the largest vote polled by any candidate for the Assembly.\n\nIn 1972, DMK leader Karunanidhi started to project his first son M.K. Muthu in a big way in film and politics. Understanding the tactics played by Karunanidhi to corner him, MGR started to claim that corruption had grown in the party after the demise of Annadurai and in a public meeting asked for the financial details of the party to be publicized, which enraged the leadership of DMK. Consequently, MGR was expelled from the party as per Karunanidhi's plan.\n\nUpon his ouster from DMK, Ramachandran floated a new party which he called Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (ADMK), later renamed All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK), the only powerful opponent of the DMK. He mobilized between 1972 and 1977 to spread and preach his party ambition with films like \"Netru Indru Naalai\" (1974), \"Idhayakani\" (1975), \"Indru Pol Endrum Vazhga\" (1977), etc.\n\nThe AIADMK contested the 1977 assembly elections in Tamil Nadu. The election was a four cornered contest between the ADMK, DMK, the Indian National Congress (INC) and the Janata Party. The ADMK allied itself with the Communist Party of India (Marxist), while INC(I) and Communist Party of India (CPI) contested as allies. The DMK and Janata Party (JNP) contested the elections alone. The ADMK did not field any candidate in the Usilampatti Constituency in support of the Forward Bloc leader P.K. Mookiah Thevar. Similarly, the ADMK also supported the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) candidate M. Abdul Latheef in the Vaniyambadi Constituency. In the parliamentary elections that occurred just three months prior to these elections, there had been two major alliances – the ADMK led ADMK-INC-CPI coalition and the DMK led DMK-NCO-JNP-CPM coalition. But in the months that followed the parliamentary election, these coalitions fell apart. The AIADMK alliance won the elections by winning 144 seats out of 234 and MGR became the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu. Upon winning the 1977 state elections, MG Ramachandran became the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu on 30 June 1977, remaining in office till his death in 1987. In 1979, members of his party Satyavani Muthu and Aravinda Bala Pajanor became the first non-Congress politicians from Tamil Nadu to be ministers in the Union Cabinet. The AIADMK won every state assembly election as long as MGR was alive. Although Anna Durai and Karunanidhi had acted in stage plays in trivial roles, in their younger days, before becoming chief minister, MGR was the first popular film actor to be a Chief Minister in India.\n\nAnna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam allied with Indian National Congress (Indira) in the 1977 parliamentary election. However, when Janata Party won the election and Morarji Desai became the Prime Minister, M. G. Ramachandran extended unconditional support to the Janata party Government. He continued his support to the Charan Singh Government in 1979. After the fall of the Charan Singh government, fresh parliamentary elections were conducted in 1980. Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam struck alliance with INC(I). ADMK and Janata Party alliance won only 2 seats in Tamil Nadu in that parliamentary election. INC(I) won the election and Indira Gandhi became the Prime Minister.\nCongress-DMK victory in the 1980 parliamentary election emboldened their alliance and made them think that people lost their faith in M. G. Ramachandran government. DMK pressed the central government to dismiss the Tamil Nadu government using similar allegations used by MGR to dismiss DMK government in 1976. The ADMK ministry and the assembly were dismissed by the central government and fresh elections conducted in 1980.\nDespite their victory at the 1980 Lok Sabha polls, DMK and Indira Congress failed to win the legislative assembly election. ADMK won the election and its leader and incumbent Chief Minister, M. G. Ramachandran was sworn in as Chief Minister for the second time. He became the first leader since K. Kamaraj to win a re-election as Chief Minister.\n\nIndira Gandhi was assassinated on 31 October 1984. During the same time, M. G. Ramachandran was diagnosed with kidney failure and admitted into a hospital in New York City. Rajiv Gandhi assumed office immediately and this required a fresh mandate from the people. Indian National Congress (Indira) and Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam formed an alliance and contested the election. M. G. Ramachandran was confined to the hospital. Video coverage of MGR recuperating in hospital along with Indira Gandhi's assassination were stitched together by the ADMK man in charge of campaigning, R. M. Veerappan. The video was distributed and played across all over Tamil Nadu. Rajiv Gandhi visited cyclone-hit areas in Tamil Nadu, which also boosted the alliance. The sympathy wave created by Indira's assassination, MGR's illness and Rajiv Gandhi's charisma helped the alliance sweep the election.[1][2] DMK leader M. Karunanidhi did not contest this election, due to the fact that the ADMK leader M.G.R was admitted to a hospital in the U.S. and Indira Gandhi being assassinated. It was a landslide victory for AIADMK-Congress combine which won 195 seats in assembly polls. The electoral victory proved the undying charisma of MGR upon the masses.\n\nOnce he became Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, he placed great emphasis on social development, especially education. One of his most successful policies was the conversion of the \"Midday Meal Scheme\", introduced by the popular Congress Chief Minister and kingmaker K Kamaraj, which already was encouraging underprivileged children to attend school, into \"MGR's Nutritious Meal Scheme\" in the government-run and -aided schools in Tamil Nadu by adding \"saththurundai\" – a nutritious sugary flour dumpling. This scheme was at a cost of Rs. 1 billion and was imposed in 1982. A little more than 120,000 children of the state were benefited. He also introduced Women's Special buses. He introduced a liquor ban in the state and preservation of old temples and historical monuments, ultimately increasing the state's tourist income. He set up a free school for the cinema technicians children in Kodambakkam called MGR Primary & Higher Secondary School which provided free mid-day meals in the 1950s. He led the ADMK to victory in the 1984 assembly elections, despite not taking part in the campaigning. At that time he was undergoing medical treatment in America and his images were broadcast in Tamil Nadu through cinema halls. This was an effective campaign tactic and ADMK won the elections claiming around 56% of assembly seats, indicating the depth of his popular support. He won his seat in a double landslide victory in 1984. He still holds the record of being the chief minister with the highest consistent longevity of more than a decade.\n\nKarunanidhi claimed on 1 April 2009 and again on 13 May 2012 that MGR was ready for the merger of his party with the DMK in 1979, with Biju Patnaik acting as the mediator. The plan failed, because Panruti Ramachandran, who was close to MGR acted as a spoiler and MGR changed his mind.\n\nEven after his death, MGR proved to be very popular in the state and his rule has been cited by many of his contemporaries as best in the country. However, his rule is not without criticism. Economic data under his rule showed that annual growth and per capita income was lower than the national average and the state went from being second among 25 industrialised states in development after Kamaraj's rule to tenth. This decline, according to critics has been due to shift of government resources from power and irrigation to social and agriculture sector according to Madras Institute of Development Studies reported in 1988. In addition, the emphasis on \"welfare schemes\" such as free electricity to farmers, mid-day meal schemes, etc. has been seen by many as taking money away from infrastructure development that could have benefited the poor. In addition, the liquor tax imposed during his rule was considered to contribute to a regressive tax mostly affecting the poor.\n\nOther criticisms have been on MGR's centralised decision-making, which many blame for inefficiency and corruption taking hold of his administration. Some examples stated by the critics include Goondas act in 1982 and other acts that limited political criticism in the media, which led to a \"police state\" during his administration. While these criticisms have been in the minority, supporters of MGR counter that most of these problems were a result of the party members serving MGR rather than the leader himself. While he is not considered a divisive figure in the state, critics and supporters alike agree that his charisma and popularity trumped policy decisions that led to his eventual success during his tenure as chief minister.\n\nNatwar Singh in his autobiography One Life is Not Enough alleges that M.G. Ramachandra covertly supported the cause of independent Tamil Eelam and financed the LTTE and their cadres were being given military training in Tamil Nadu. He also alleges that M.G.R considered Jaffna an extension of Tamil Nadu and without informing the Indian Government at the time, had gifted 40 million rupees to the LTTE.\n\nMGR has been accused of being intolerant towards the media. In April 1987, the Editor of Ananda Vikatan S. Balasubramanian was sentenced to 3 months in jail by the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly for publishing a cartoon, depicting government ministers as bandits and lawmakers as pickpockets, though specific legislature was not specified. But due to media outcry, he was released and S. Balasubramanian later won a case against his arrest. Earlier, Vaniga Otrumai editor A.M. Paulraj was sentenced to 2 weeks imprisonment by the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly for his writing.\n\nAfter his death in 1987, he became the second Chief Minister from the state of Tamil Nadu to receive the Bharat Ratna. The timing of the award was controversial, due to the fact that it was given so quickly after his death and he was elected as Chief Minister only 11 years before the award. Many opponents, mostly outside Tamil Nadu, criticised then ruling party INC, under Rajiv Gandhi to have influenced the selection committee to give the award to help win the upcoming 1989 Lok Sabha election. The ruling party forming a coalition with Jayalalithaa, the successor to MGR at that time, were able to sweep Tamil Nadu, winning 38 out of 39 seats, INC were however unable to win nationally.\n\nTo commemorate MGR's Birth centenary in 2017, the Ministry of Finance, Government of India decided to issue ₹100 and ₹5 coins that would bear his image as a portrait along with an inscription of \"DR. M. G. Ramachandran Birth Centenary\".\n\n\nHe personally offered relief in disasters and calamities like fire, flood, drought, and cyclones. He was the first donor during the war with China in 1962 (Sino-Indian War), donating Rs. 75,000 to the war fund. He was the founder and editor of \"Thai\" weekly magazine and \"Anna\" daily newspaper in Tamil. He was the owner of Sathya Studios and Emgeeyar Pictures (willed to charity) which produced many of the films he acted in. He had gifted a golden sword weighing half a Kilogram to Mookambika temple in Kollur, Udupi district.\n\nIn October 1984, M. G. R. was diagnosed with kidney failure, which was further complicated by diabetes, a mild heart attack and a massive stroke. He was rushed to the Downstate Medical Center in New York City, United States for treatment, undergoing a kidney transplant. He returned to Chennai on 4 February 1985. He was sworn in as chief minister of Tamil Nadu for the third consecutive term on 10 February 1985. The next 2 years and 10 months were spent in frequent trips to the United States for treatment.\n\nMGR never fully recovered from his illness and died on 24 December 1987 at 3:30 am in his Ramavaram Gardens residence in Manapakkam after his prolonged illness. He was almost 71. His death sparked off a frenzy of looting and rioting all over the state. Shops, cinemas, buses and other public and private property became the target of violence let loose. The police had to resort issuing shoot-at-sight orders. Schools and colleges immediately announced the holidays till the situation came in control. The violence during the funeral alone left 29 people dead and 47 police personnel badly wounded.\n\nThis state of affairs continued for almost a month across Tamil Nadu. Around one million people followed his remains, around 30 followers committed suicide and people had their heads tonsured. After his death, his political party, the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, split between his wife Janaki Ramachandran and J. Jayalalithaa; they merged in 1988.\n\nIn 1989 Dr. M. G. R. Home and Higher Secondary School for the Speech and Hearing Impaired was established at the erstwhile residence MGR Gardens, Ramavaram, in accordance with his last will & testament written in January 1987. His official residence at 27, Arcot Street, T. Nagar is now M.G.R. Memorial House and is open for public viewing. His film studio, Sathya Studios, has been converted into a women's college.\n\n\nM. G. Ramachandran's unrealized projects\n\n"}
{"id": "12647379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12647379", "title": "Ma'ad ibn Adnan", "text": "Ma'ad ibn Adnan\n\nMa'ad ibn Adnan is an ancient ancestor of Qusai ibn Kilab and his descendant the Islamic prophet Muhammad. He is featured in ancient Arabic literature.\n\nAccording to traditions, Ma'ad is the son of Adnan, the father of a group of the Ishmaelite Arabs who inhabited West and Northern Arabia. Adnan is believed by Arab genealogies to be the father of many Ishmaelite tribes along the Western coast of Arabia and the Nejd.\n\nAs it was reported, Ma'ad was first born of Adnan He Is Born 598 BCE .\n\nMa'ad was the father of four sons: Nizar, Quda'a, Qunus and Iyad. Quda'a was the first-born and so Ma'ad ibn Adnan was known by his Kunya \"Abu Quda'a.\" \n\nFrom the poems composed by Pre-Islamic poets, and from their statements, it can be concluded that Ma'ad was more venerated and more important than his father Adnan, evidenced by the number of times when he was mentioned in Pre-Islamic poetries, and how he was described and honored by his descendants's tribes when boasting against other tribes, some other poets even considered it as \"disgrace\" not to be a descendant of Adnan and Ma'ad.\n\nSome other poems also celebrated and honored the victory of the people of Ma'ad against the tribe of Madh'hij in South Arabia.\n\nWhen the Babylonian king Nebuchadnezzar II attacked the Qedarite Arabs during the time of Adnan, Ma'ad was sent away by his father, and after the defeat of the Qedarite and the death of both Adnan and Nebuchadnezzar II, many Adnanites who were not forced to live in Mesopotamia have fled away to Yemen, but Ma'ad, as the successor of his father, ordered them to return to Hijaz and Northern Arabia.\n\nThe defeat and displacement of the people of Ma'ad seemed to be viewed by Pre-Islamic Arabs as a disastrous event, so that it was used as a proverbial measure in describing the horror of their later defeats.\n\nMa'ad, unlike his father, was mentioned countless times by Pre-Islamic Arab poets across the whole Arabian Peninsula, including Ghassanid and Christian poets, even in the famous Seven Mu'allaqat.\n\nFrom those poems, it can be seen that Ma'ad was venerated by Pre-Islamic Arabs, and for some reason, they believed that all the glories throughout the whole Arab history is considered nothing when compared to the glory of Ma'ad.\n\nFrom some other poems, it appears that the nation of Ma'ad presented a large majority among Pre-Islamic Arabs.\n\nMa'ad was mentioned by name in the Namara inscription as a nation that was conquered by the Lakhmid king Imru' al-Qays ibn 'Amr, along with other Arab nation from North, Central-West and South Arabia.\n\nFrom some of the reports of about the relations between the Lakhmids and the nation of Ma'ad, it can be concluded that the kings of the Northern Arab kingdoms feared them and viewed them as mighty opponent because of their powerful war tactics, even when they conquered them, they treated their kings with high respect as important people, and gave them large conquered colonies to rule, as reported in the Namara inscription. Such views are also supported by the Classical Arabic writings.\n\nThe nation of Ma'ad was mentioned by the Byzantine historian Procopius of Caesarea (c. AD 500 – c. AD 565) in his historical record of wars in during his lifetime \"\"Wars of Justinian\".\n\nHe mentioned that a Saracen nation named \"Maddeni\" (Ma'ad) were subjects with the kingdom of the \"Homeritae\" (Himyarites), and that the Byzantine emperor Justinian sent a letter to the Himyarite king ordering him to assemble an army of Himyarite soldiers and from Ma'ad under the leadership of a king of the nation of Ma'ad named \"Kaisus\"\" (Qays) in order to attack the borders of the Sasanian Empire, and then approved the leader of Ma'ad as a king on the region.\n\n"}
{"id": "58934111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58934111", "title": "Mazari (Emirati)", "text": "Mazari (Emirati)\n\nThe Mazari (singular Mazrouei or Mazrui) is a tribe of the United Arab Emirates (UAE). The Mazari settled throughout the Trucial States but principally in Abu Dhabi. They are considered a subsection of the Bani Yas and formed the majority of the Bedouin component of that federation of tribes.\n\nThe Liwa Oasis was the homeplace of many of the Mazari, where they were the principal property owners of the six Bani Yas tribes in the area, consisting of some 315 houses at the turn of the 20th century. They were closely associated with the Marar at Liwa. At that time there were also some 300 Mazari at Al Khan in Sharjah and 500 in the areas of Adhen and Asimah. Those of the Mazari who settled in Dubai came to consider themselves as apart from the Bani Yas.\n\nThey were herdsmen and records show they settled into an agrarian existence in the oasis following the decline in the value of camels and the use of traditional camel trains which took place in the Trucial States during the early 20th century. They were also involved in the seasonal pearl fisheries. Like their Bedouin counterparts the Manasir, many Mazari found employment in the burgeoning oil industry as modernisation forced changes in the lifestyle of the Bedouin of the area. The Mazari also formed the second largest Bedouin contingent among the Ruler's retainers, being said to be loyal and \"in their bedu fashion, disciplined.\"\n\nWhen Sheikh Saeed bin Tahnun Al Nahyan repelled the Wahhabis from the Buraimi Oasis in 1848, it was the Mazari, together with the Manasir, who waited South of Abu Dhabi to fall on the relieving force send from Nejd under Saad bin Mutlaq. The two tribes were also linked in events further north, where they were involved in a conflict with the \"wali\" of Al Khan, Muhamad bin Ubaid in 1920. Some 75 pearling boats sailed from Al Khan each season, owned by settled Mazari and Manasir families. However, the village was frequently plundered by Bedouin Mazari and Al Bu Shamis, the Ruler of Sharjah, Sheikh Sultan bin Saqr Al Qasimi, and the \"wali\" being accused of doing little to protect the village, whilst also insisting on a tribute of 50 bags of rice at the commencement of each pearling season. When the \"wali\" died in 1931, the village appointed its own headman – a move which was punished by Sultan bin Saqr, who replaced the murdered headman with his brother Muhammad.\n\nAn outbreak of hostilities between the Bedouin tribes of Dhafra (the area between Abu Dhabi and the Rub Al Kali) in the early 20th century rumbled on until the early 1920s, with the Mazari split between a group who sought Saudi protection and a group who migrated to Abu Dhabi and its islands. After Sheikh Hamdan bin Zayed Al Nahyan arranged a truce, the Mazari returned to Dhafra but fighting between the tribes continued: a conflict used by Abdelaziz Ibn Saud of Saudi Arabia to increase his influence over the tribes and exact the tax zakat from them. These shifting allegiances and schisms were to form part of the Saudi claims which led to the Buraimi Dispute.\n\nA prominent UAE trading family today, one of its most notable members is the UAE's Minister of State for Youth Affairs, Shamma bint Suhail Faris Al Mazrui who, in February 2016, became the youngest government minister in the world.\n"}
{"id": "23900559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23900559", "title": "Mazen Abdul-Jawad", "text": "Mazen Abdul-Jawad\n\nMazen Abdul-Jawad (born 1977) is a Saudi Arabian man who spoke about his sexual exploits on television in July 2009. He was convicted and sentenced to five years in prison and 1,000 lashes for talking publicly about sex. After the program by the Lebanese Broadcasting Corporation (LBC) which included his comments aired, the Saudi government shut down the LBC's two offices in the country.\n\nAbdul-Jawad is a 32-year-old sales clerk for Saudi Airlines and a divorced father of four. He appeared on the Lebanese Broadcasting Corporation satellite TV program \"Bold Red Line\" on July 15, 2009, and discussed his personal sexual exploits. On the show, Jawad talked about having sex at the age of 14 with a neighbour and picking up women using the Bluetooth function on his cellphone (as they are forbidden to interact with men in public), and revealed a recipe for an aphrodisiac. The program also showed Abdul-Jawad leading viewers into his bedroom, dominated by red accessories, and showing off sex toys, which were blurred for viewing. Later, three male friends join him for a discussion on what turns them on.\n\nJawad was arrested on July 31 for publicising vice, after Saudi religious and judicial authorities received what they said were hundreds of complaints from the public regarding the program. A police spokesman in Jeddah said that Abdul Jawad's appearance had violated Saudi Arabia's Islamic Sharia law code and was against Saudi customs. \n\nAn anonymous source from the Saudi Prosecution and Investigation Commission (PIC) stated that the prosecution might request charging Jawad and the other defendants for Hirabah, a crime defined as \"waging unlawful warfare (in speech or action) against the state and society\". The punishment for such a crime would be beheading.\n\nOn October 7, 2009, Jawad was convicted by a Jeddah court on charges based on Sharia law. He was sentenced to five years imprisonment and 1,000 lashes. The sentence also includes a ban on travel and talking to the media for five years after his release.\n\nThe other three men on the show were also convicted of discussing sex publicly. They were sentenced to two years imprisonment and 300 lashes each. A cameraman who helped film the episode was sentenced to two months in jail. A female journalist at LBC, one of two arrested, was sentenced to 60 lashes.\n\nJawad's lawyer, Sulaiman al-Jumeii, said the case should not be considered closed, and that he planned to appeal the court's ruling, claiming that the decision was made \"under pressure from public opinion\". He maintained that Jawad was not referring to his own sexual experiences and that the toys shown on the program were not his own. He further argued that the case was tried before the wrong court, and that it should have been heard by a specialized court at the Information Ministry qualified to issue decisions regarding technical issues related to the case.\n\nAl-Jumeii filed a lawsuit against LBC, maintaining that his client was duped by the media corporation and was unaware in many cases he was being recorded.\n\nOn August 7, YouTube disabled comments for the video clip of the program. Before the clip was blocked by the government censor in Saudi Arabia, it was viewed more than 430,000 times.\n"}
{"id": "13624079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13624079", "title": "Milly Witkop", "text": "Milly Witkop\n\nMilly Witkop(-Rocker) (March 3, 1877November 23, 1955) was a Ukrainian-born Jewish anarcho-syndicalist, feminist writer and activist. She was the common-law wife of the prominent anarcho-syndicalist leader Rudolf Rocker. The couple's son, Fermin Rocker, was an artist.\n\nWitkop was born Vitkopski in the Ukrainian shtetl of Zlatopol to a Jewish Ukrainian-Russian family as the oldest of four sisters. The youngest of the four, Rose, also became a well-known anarchist. In 1894, Witkop left the Ukraine for London. In the decades following the 1881 assassination of Czar Alexander II, many Jews left Russia as a result of anti-Jewish pogroms throughout the Empire. Most went to the United Kingdom or the United States.\n\nIn London, she worked in a tailoring sweatshop and saved enough money to finance her parents' and sisters' passage to England. The hard conditions she worked under led her to question her faith. Her involvement in a bakers' strike led her to become involved with the group around the Jewish anarchist newspaper \"Arbayter Fraynd\". She became influenced by the works of the anarchist theorist Peter Kropotkin. In 1895, she first met Rudolf Rocker in the course of her political work. In May 1898, Rocker invited her to accompany him to New York City, where he hoped to find employment. The two were, however, not admitted to the country, because they refused to get married legally and were returned to the United Kingdom with the same ship on which they had reached the United States. The matter received some newspaper coverage in the United States at the time, attacking the couple's love without marriage.\n\nFrom October 1898, Rocker and Witkop co-edited the \"Arbeyter Fraynd\". In March 1900, the two also started publishing the newspaper \"Germinal\", which was more focused on cultural topics. In 1907, the couple's son, Fermin, was born. Rocker and Witkop were opposed to World War I after it broke out in 1914, unlike many other anarchists such as Kropotkin, who supported the Allied cause. To ease the poverty and deprivation caused by the joblessness that accompanied the war, Witkop and her husband opened a soup kitchen. In December 1914, however, Rocker like many Germans and Austrians in the UK, was interned as an enemy alien. Witkop continued her anti-war activities until she was also arrested in 1916. She remained imprisoned until the autumn of 1918. She then left the United Kingdom to join her husband and son in the Netherlands.\n\nAt first, the couple welcomed the February and October Revolutions in Russia, but after the Bolshevik coup they started criticizing the statism and totalitarianism of what would become the Soviet Union. In November 1918, they moved to Berlin; Rocker had been invited by Free Association of German Trade Unions (FVdG) chairman Fritz Kater to join him in building up what would become the Free Workers' Union of Germany (FAUD), an anarcho-syndicalist trade union. Both Rocker and Witkop became members of the FAUD.\n\nAfter its founding in early 1919, a discussion about the role of girls and women in the union started. The male-dominated organization had at first ignored gender issues, but soon women started founding their own unions, which were organized parallel to the regular unions, but still formed part of the FAUD. Witkop was one of the leading founders of the Women's Union in Berlin in 1920. On October 15, 1921, the women's unions held a national congress in Düsseldorf and the Syndicalist Women's Union (SFB) was founded on a national level. Shortly thereafter, Witkop drafted \"Was will der Syndikalistische Frauenbund?\" (\"What Does the Syndicalist Women's Union Want?\") as a platform for the SFB. From 1921, the \"Der Frauenbund\" was published as a supplement to the FAUD organ \"Der Syndikalist\", Witkop was one of its primary writers.\n\nWitkop reasoned that proletarian women were exploited not only by capitalism like male workers, but also by their male counterparts. She contended therefore that women must actively fight for their rights, much like workers must fight capitalism for theirs. She also insisted on the necessity of women taking part in class struggle. Housewives could use boycotts to support this struggle. From this, she concluded the necessity of an autonomous women's organization in the FAUD. Witkop also held that domestic work should be deemed equally valuable to wage labor. In a 1921 article in \"Der Frauenbund\", Witkop argued that the most important issue facing the SFB was the \"sexual issue\". She called for access to birth control and advocated a childbearing strike. A debate on the issue within the German syndicalist movement ensued. Meetings on the issue were well-attended meetings and new SFB chapers were formed.\n\nShe was not only active in the syndicalist and feminist movement, but also worked to fight racism and anti-Semitism. She was often frustrated by what she considered an unwillingness to fight anti-Semitism in the labor movement. The rise of the Nazi Party in Germany in the late 1920s greatly troubled Witkop. After the Reichstag fire in February 1933, Witkop and Rocker fled Germany for the United States via Switzerland, France, and the UK. In the US, the couple continued to give lectures and write about anarchist topics. During the Spanish Civil War from 1936 to 1939, they started an awareness campaign to educate Americans about the events in Spain. In Fall 1937, the two moved to the Mohegan Commune near Lake Mohegan in Crompond. After World War II broke out, Witkop, like her husband and other anarchists such as Max Nettlau and Diego Abad de Santillán, supported the Allies because she felt Nazism could not be defeated with pacifist means.\n\nAfter World War II, Witkop had some sympathy for the Zionist movement, but was skeptical as to whether a nation state could solve the \"Jewish question\". She favored the idea of bi-nationality developed by Martin Buber and Ahad Ha'am. The Mohegan commune, especially Witkop, was active in sending material support to German anarchists. They sent several hundred packages to Germany.\n\nWitkop died on November 23, 1955. She had been suffering from difficulties of breathing for months.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "227161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227161", "title": "Moncure D. Conway", "text": "Moncure D. Conway\n\nMoncure Daniel Conway (March 17, 1832 – November 15, 1907) was an American abolitionist minister. At various times Methodist, Unitarian, and a Freethought, the radical writer descended from patriotic and patrician families of Virginia and Maryland but spent most of the final four decades of his life abroad in England and France, where he wrote biographies of Edmund Randolph, Nathaniel Hawthorne and Thomas Paine and his own autobiography. He led freethinkers in London's South Place Chapel.\n\nConway's parents descended from the First Families of Virginia. His father, Walter Peyton Conway, was a wealthy slave-holding gentleman farmer, county judge, and state representative; his home, known as the Conway House, still stands at 305 King Street (also known as River Road), along the Rappahannock River. Conway's mother, Margaret Stone Daniel Conway, was the granddaughter of Thomas Stone of Maryland (a signer of the Declaration of Independence), and in addition to running the household, also practiced homeopathy learned from her doctor father. Both parents were Methodists, his father having left the Episcopal church, his mother the Presbyterian, and they hosted Methodist meetings in their home until a suitable church was finally built in Fredericksburg. An uncle, Judge Eustace Conway, advocated states' rights in Virginia's General Assembly (as did Walter Conway). Another uncle, Richard C.L. Moncure, served on what later became the Virginia Supreme Court, was a layman in the Episcopal Church, and became known for his integrity and hatred of intolerance. His great-uncle, Peter Vivian Daniel, served on the United States Supreme Court, where he upheld slavery and the Fugitive Slave Act of 1850, including in the Dred Scott Decision of 1857.\n\nTwo of his three brothers later fought for the Confederacy. His opposition to slavery reportedly came from his mother's side of the family, including his great-grandfather Travers Daniel (justice of the Stafford Court, died 1824) and his mother herself (who fled to Easton, Pennsylvania and lived with her daughter and son-in-law Professor Marsh after the Civil War broke out) as well as from his boyhood experiences. Nonetheless, during his youth, Moncure Conway briefly took a pro-slavery position under the influence of a cousin, Richmond editor John Moncure Daniel, himself a protege of Justice Daniel.\n\nConway was born in Falmouth, Virginia,\n\nAfter attending the Fredericksburg Classical and Mathematical Academy (alma mater of George Washington and other famous Virginians), Conway followed his elder brother to Methodist-affiliated Dickinson College in Carlisle, Pennsylvania, graduating in 1849. During his time at Dickinson, Conway helped found the college's first student publication and was influenced by Professor John McClintock, which caused him to embrace Methodism as well as an anti-slavery position, although that controversy was starting to split the denomination. In Fredericksburg, uncle Eustace funded the pro-slavery Southern Conference faction and his father the at-least-theoretically anti-slavery Baltimore Conference faction.\n\nWhile in Cincinnati as discussed below, Conway married Ellen Davis Dana. She was a fellow Unitarian, feminist, and abolitionist. The couple had three sons (two of whom survived childhood) and a daughter during their long marriage, which ended with her death from cancer in 1898. Despite the previous tension with his own family over his opposition to slavery, Moncure Conway nevertheless brought his bride to meet them, during which Ellen broke a Southern social constraint by hugging and kissing a young slave girl in front of family members; after this, it would take 17 years before Conway reconciled with his family.\n\nAfter studying law for a year in Warrenton, Virginia, partly out of a moral crisis caused by seeing a lynching of a black man whose retrial had been ordered by the Court of Appeals, Conway became a circuit-riding Methodist minister. Conway had self-published his first pamphlet in 1850, \"Free Schools in Virginia: A Plea of Education, Virtue and Thrift, vs. Ignorance, Vice and Poverty\", but had been unable to convince local politicians to follow his recommendations, particularly as the pro-slavery faction believed such universal education influenced by Northern mores. His Rockville Circuit included his native state and Washington, D.C. through Rockville, Maryland, where he became acquainted with the Quaker Roger Brooke, whom he considered his first avowed abolitionist, despite his familial relation to the jurist Roger Brooke Taney. In 1853, after being reassigned to a circuit around Frederick, Maryland and shortly after his beloved elder brother Peyton died of typhoid fever and his assistant Becky of another, Moncure Conway left the Methodist church and entered the Harvard University school of divinity to continue his spiritual journey. Before graduating in 1854, he met Ralph Waldo Emerson and fell under the influence of Transcendentalism, as well as became an outspoken abolitionist after discussions with Theodore Parker, William Lloyd Garrison, Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Wendell Phillips.\n\nAfter graduating from Harvard, Conway accepted a call to the First Unitarian Church of Washington, D.C., but he was invited to seek another position after enunciating abolitionist views. Moreover, when Conway returned to his native Virginia, his rumored connection with an attempt to rescue the fugitive slave Anthony Burns in Boston, Massachusetts (whose master Conway had known in Stafford, Virginia before their move to Alexandria, and who was ultimately purchased by an abolitionist and set free) aroused bitter hostility among his old neighbors and friends, as well as family. Conway fled being tarred and feathered in 1854.\n\nNonetheless, almost at once, Conway was invited to preach sermons at the Unitarian congregation in Cincinnati, Ohio. He served as minister at that anti-slavery congregation from late 1855 until after the outbreak of the Civil War in 1861. However, when in 1859, he announced to the congregation that he no longer believed in miracles or Christ's divinity, a third of the congregation left—but the \"Free Church\" survived. Conway also edited a short-lived liberal periodical called \"The Dial\" in 1860-1861, linking his emerging spiritual views to his Transcendentalist background. In Cincinnati he became more acquainted with Jews and Catholics, and counseled against discriminating against them because of their religions. However, not all his abolitionist friends agreed with his pacificism, especially his condemnation of John Brown' raid at Harper's Ferry (though he also expressed disappointment at Virginia's bellicose response).\n\nConway had become editor of the anti-slavery weekly \"Commonwealth\" in Boston, and in 1861, Conway published semi-anonymously \"The Rejected Stone; or Insurrection vs. Resurrection in America\", identifying himself only as a \"Native of Virginia\". The book was published in three editions and ultimately handed out to Union soldiers after the start of the American Civil War. During the next year, Conway advocated abolition, including in a Smithsonian lecture series in Washington, D.C., which earned him and the more moderate Unitarian minister William Henry Channing a meeting with President Abraham Lincoln to discuss his argument that announcing abolition would weaken the Confederacy. While in Washington, D.C., Conway located several dozen of his father's slaves who had fled from Virginia into Georgetown. Conway secured train tickets and safe-conduct passes for them, and escorted them on a dangerous trip through Maryland to safety in Yellow Springs, Ohio, where he believed they would be safe due to the town's accepting culture.\n\nDuring the Union occupation before the devastating Battle of Fredericksburg, Conway also returned home to Falmouth in 1862, and learned that his family's house had been spared from destruction because of its association with him, although it was commandeered for use as a hospital for wounded soldiers (at which Walt Whitman would nurse). That year, Conway published another powerful plea for emancipation, \"The Golden Hour\" (1862). On New Year's Day, 1863 (also called Emancipation Day, because President Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation, news of which reached Boston by telegraph), Conway with fellow abolitionists Julia Ward Howe, Amos Bronson Alcott, Oliver Wendell Holmes Sr., George Luther Stearns and Wendell Phillips unveiled a marble bust of John Brown at Stearns' home.\n\nAlso in 1862, after spending more and more time away from his church advancing the abolitionist cause, and growing dissatisfied with the theological, liturgical, and social conservatism of mainstream Unitarianism, Conway left that denomination's ministry, after which he maintained an uneasy and uncertain relationship with Unitarianism in America and subsequently in England until he and Ellen made a clean break.\n\nIn April 1863 Fellow American abolitionists sent Conway to London to convince the United Kingdom that the American Civil War was primarily a war of abolition and to not support the Confederacy. Under English influence, Conway eventually contacted James Murray Mason, representative of the Confederate States of America to Britain \"on behalf of the leading antislavery men of America\", offering withdrawal of support for prosecution of the war in exchange for emancipation of the slaves. Mason publicly rejected the overture, embarrassing Conway's sponsors, who quickly and angrily withdrew support. Moreover, Conway had to apologize to U.S. Secretary of State William H. Seward, who could have caused revocation of his passport for attempting to speak as a private citizen for the U.S. government.\nRather than go back to America, where Conway no longer felt welcome as a suspected traitor to his childhood Virginia friends and neighbors, and where he paid someone to take his place after being drafted to serve in the Union army, Conway traveled to Italy. There he reunited with his wife and children in Venice before moving back to London. There in 1864 he became minister of the South Place Chapel (serving in 1864–65 and 1893–97) as well as leader of the then named South Place Religious Society in Finsbury, London. Conway continued writing and publishing, including articles in both British and American magazines, and traveled to Paris and even Russia. He also served as a war correspondent during the Franco-Prussian War of 1870–71. Conway published biographies of Edmund Randolph, Nathaniel Hawthorne and Thomas Paine, as well as acted as the American agent for Robert Browning and the London literary agent for Walt Whitman, Mark Twain, Louisa May Alcott, and Elizabeth Cady Stanton.\n\nConway also abandoned theism after his son Emerson died in 1864. His thinking continued to move from Emersonian transcendentalism toward a more humanistic Freethought. He conducted funeral services for his friend Artemus Ward, as well as preached memorial at memorial services for many other famous literary figures. Moreover, women were allowed to preach at South Place Chapel, among them Annie Besant, whom Mrs. Conway had befriended. However, the South Place congregation and Conway soon left fellowship with the Unitarian Church. For a year from November 1865 Cleveland Hall was leased for Sunday evenings so Conway could \"address the working classes.\" However, the audience consisted of well-dressed lower-middle-class people.\nConway remained the leader of South Place until 1886, when Stanton Coit took his place. Under Coit's leadership South Place was renamed to the South Place Ethical Society. However Coit's tenure ended in 1892 in a losing power struggle, and Conway resumed leadership until his death.\n\nConway attended the salon of radicals Peter and Clementia Taylor at Aubrey House in Campden Hill, West London. He also was a member of Clementia's \"Pen and Pencil Club\", at which young writers and artists read and exhibited their works. Conway moved to Notting Hill to be near the Taylors at Aubrey House.\n\nIn 1868 Conway was one of four speakers at the first open public meeting in support of women's suffrage in Great Britain. His many literary and intellectual friends included Charles Dickens, Robert Browning, Thomas Carlyle, Charles Lyell, and Charles Darwin.\n\nIn the 1870s and 1880s Conway returned occasionally to the United States, where he reconciled with his Virginia family in 1875, as well as toured in the West about Demonology and the famous Englishmen he knew. In 1897 Conway and his terminally-ill (from cancer) wife Ellen returned from London to New York City to fulfill her wish of dying on American soil; she died on Christmas Day; their son Dana also died that year. As the Spanish–American War approached, Conway turned toward pacifism and became disaffected with his countrymen, moving to France to devote much of the rest of his life to the peace movement and writing. However, he occasionally returned to Fredericksburg, which had come to admire his cultural accomplishments. Conway also traveled to India, about which he wrote shortly before his death.\n\nConway visited India and described his experiences in \"My Pilgrimage to the Wise Men of the East\", 1906.\n\nHe visited Helena Blavatsky in 1884 and denounced the Mahatma letters as fraudulent. He suggested that Koot Hoomi was a fictitious creation of Blavatsky. Conway wrote that Blavatsky \"created the imaginary Koothoomi (originally Kothume) by piecing together parts of the names of her two chief disciples, Olcott and Hume.\"\n\nConway died alone, at 75, in his apartment in Paris. His corpse was found on November 15, 1907 and was ultimately returned to Westchester County, New York, for burial in Kensico cemetery.\n\nConway Hall in Holborn, London is named in his honor. In 2004, Virginia Governor Mark R. Warner proclaimed Conway the only descendant of a Founding Father of the nation to physically lead slaves to freedom. Both Ohio and Virginia have erected historical markers in his honor, and Conway's childhood home was designated a U.S. and Virginia landmark. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "301491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=301491", "title": "Nahum Tate", "text": "Nahum Tate\n\nNahum Tate ( ; 1652 – 30 July 1715) was an Irish poet, hymnist and lyricist, who became England's poet laureate in 1692. Tate is best known for \"The History of King Lear\", his 1681 adaptation of Shakespeare's \"King Lear\".\n\nNahum Tate was born in Dublin and came from a family of Puritan clerics. He was the son of Faithful Teate, an Irish cleric who had been rector of Castleterra, Ballyhaise, until his house was burnt and his family attacked after he had passed on information to the government about plans for the Irish Rebellion of 1641.\n\nAfter living at the provost's lodgings in Trinity College, Dublin, Faithful Teate moved to England. He was the incumbent at East Greenwich around 1650, and \"preacher of the gospel\" at Sudbury from 1654 to 1658. He had returned to Dublin by 1660. He published a poem on the Trinity entitled \"Ter Tria\", as well as some sermons, two of which he dedicated to Oliver and Henry Cromwell.\n\nNahum Teate followed his father to Trinity College, Dublin in 1668, and graduated BA in 1672. By 1676 he had moved to London and was writing for a living. The following year he had adopted the spelling \"Tate\", which would remain until his death. He died in 1715, in Southwark, London, England. He was buried at St George the Martyr, Southwark on 1 August 1715 as 'of next to the Prince Eugene, Mint'.\n\nTate published a volume of poems in London in 1677, and became a regular writer for the stage. \"Brutus of Alba, or The Enchanted Lovers\" (1678), a tragedy dealing with Dido and Aeneas, was dedicated to Charles Sackville, 6th Earl of Dorset; it was later adapted as the libretto for Henry Purcell's opera \"Dido and Aeneas\" (1688 or earlier). \"The Loyal General\", with a prologue by Dryden, played at the Dorset Garden Theatre in 1680.\n\nTate then turned to making a series of adaptations of Elizabethan dramas. His version of William Shakespeare's \"Richard II\" altered the names of the characters, and changed the text so that every scene, to use his own words, was \"full of respect to Majesty and the dignity of courts\"; but in spite of these precautions \"The Sicilian Usurper\" (1681), as his rewrite was called, was suppressed on the third performance on account of a possible political interpretation. In 1681 Thomas Betterton played Tate's version of \"King Lear\", which entirely omitted the Fool, and ended happily in marriage between Cordelia and Edgar. (Though Joseph Addison protested at this mutilation of Shakespeare, Samuel Johnson defended the poetic justice of Tate's adaptation.)\"Coriolanus\" became \"The Ingratitude of a Commonwealth\", played at the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane in 1682. Tate's farce \"Duke and no Duke\" (first printed 1685, but acted earlier at the Theatre Royal) imitated Sir Aston Cockayne's \"Trappolin suppos'd a Prince\". His \"Cuckold's Haven\" (performed 1685 at the Theatre Royal) was derived from Chapman and Marston's \"Eastward Ho\". \"The Island Princess, or the Generous Portugals\" (1687) was adapted from John Fletcher. \"Injur'd Love, or the Cruel Husband\" (1707), altered from Webster's \"The White Devil\", seems never to have been acted.\n\nIn 1682 Tate collaborated with John Dryden to complete the second half of his epic poem \"Absalom and Achitophel\".\n\nTate wrote the libretto for Henry Purcell's opera \"Dido and Aeneas\"; its first known performance was in 1689. He also wrote the text for Purcell's Birthday Ode \"Come Ye Sons of Art\" in 1694. Tate also translated \"Syphilis sive Morbus Gallicus\", Girolamo Fracastoro's Latin pastoral poem on the subject of the disease of syphilis, into English heroic couplets.\n\nTate's name is also connected with the famous \"New Version of the Psalms of David\" (1696), for which he collaborated with Nicholas Brady. Some items such as \"As pants the hart\" (Psalm 42) rise above the general level, and are said to be Tate's work. A supplement was licensed in 1703 which included the Christmas carol \"While Shepherds Watched Their Flocks\", one of a number of hymns by Tate.\n\nHis poems were sharply criticised by Alexander Pope in \"The Dunciad\".\n\nOf his numerous poems the most original is \"Panacea, a poem on Tea\" (1700). In spite of his consistent Toryism, he succeeded Shadwell as poet laureate in 1692. He died within the precincts of the Mint, Southwark, where he had taken refuge from his creditors, in 1715.\n\nIn 1985, the Riverside Shakespeare Company of New York City staged Tate's \"History of King Lear\" in its original form, \"happy ending\" and all, directed by W. Stuart McDowell at The Shakespeare Center. This included removing the Fool altogether, adding a confidante for Cordelia, named Arante, as well as an \"abduction\" scene of Cordelia on the heath. The play concluded with multiple happy endings: for Lear and Kent, and Cordelia and Edgar, who presumably wed after the play's conclusion. Musical interludes were sung by cast members during the act breaks, accompanied by a harpsichord in the orchestra pit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46359993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46359993", "title": "Naseeruddin Shah filmography", "text": "Naseeruddin Shah filmography\n\nNaseeruddin Shah (born 16 August 1949) is an Indian actor and director. He has acted in over 100 films and directed the 2006 Bollywood film, \"Yun Hota Toh Kya Hota\", starring Irrfan Khan and Konkana Sen Sharma.\n\nHe began his acting career playing Vishwan in the 1975 Hindi film, \"Nishant\". Since then, he has done several movies in English and some regional languages of India while he mainly appeared in Hindi films.\n\nHe launched his autobiography in the year 2014, titled \"And then one day: A Memoir\".\n\n Nude marathi movie\n\n"}
{"id": "53272724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53272724", "title": "P. C. Bose", "text": "P. C. Bose\n\nPrabhat Chandra Bose generally referred to as P. C. Bose, (17 August 1899 - 1959) was a noted freedom fighter, labor activist and politician from Dhanbad.\n\nHe was son of Priyanath Bose, born at Khasial village in Jessore district of British India (now in Bangladesh) on 17 August 1899.\n\nHe did his early education Jharia Raj High School and later Narail Victoria College in Bangladesh and graduated from K. N. College, Berhampur affiliated to Calcutta University with Bachelor of Arts degree. He married Mrinalini in 1917 and had two sons and three daughters.\n\nThe Bose family migrated to Jharia from Bengal during his childhood. P. C. Bose went on to become a teacher at Jharia Raj High School.\n\nHe was a noted Indian National Congress politician and Gandhian Independence Activist from Dhanbad, the other from the region being Purushottam K. Chauhan. He joined Civil Disobedience and Satyagraha movements during the period 1930 to 1945; courted imprisonment five times and was in jail for about six years.\n\nHe was member of Bihar Legislative Assembly - 1946-52; Member, 1st Lok Sabha - (1952–57). He was re-elected to 2nd Lok Sabha from Dhanbad but died in 1959.\nHe was Workers' delegate to ILO, Geneva conference 1928; Indian delegate to British Commonwealth Labour Conference, 1928; General Secretary, Indian Miners' Association, 1932–46, and President since 1946; Member, Mines Rescue Stations Committee since 1939; President, Manbhum D.C.C., 1941; Vice-President, All-India Trade Union Congress, 1945; President, Indian Mine Workers' Federation, 1946–47, and Treasurer, 1951-52; Member, Member, Congress Legislative Party, Bihar, 1946–52; Member, Labour Sub-Committee, Bihar, 1946–52; Workers' Representative, Indian Coal Mining Committee, Geneva, 1947 and Asian Regional Labour Conference, New Delhi, 1947; Member, Coal Mines Conciliation Board, . 1947; Member, Jharia Mines Board of Health since 1947; Member, Bihar Central (Standing) labour Advisory Board, 1947–52; President, Dhanbad Sub-District C.C., 1947–49, 1949–51 and 1951–54; President, Dhanbad Sub-District Panchayat Committee since 1948; Member, Coal Mines Welfare Fund Advisory Board and Coal Transport Advisory Board since 1948; Member, Industrial Housing Board since 1949; Member, General Council, INTUC, 1950–52; Member, Bihar P.C.C., 1951–54; Member, Governing Body, Jharia Raj H. E. School, Jharia K. C. Girls' School and Jharia Banga Vidyalaya.\n\nHis elder son Shankar Bose, an advocate who practiced in Dhanbad as an Industrial & Labour Laws expert, was also a trade union leader and served in various capacities in INTUC (Indian National Trade Union Congress) and RCMS (Rashtriya Colliery Mazdoor Sangh) and was jailed by British for taking part in independence activities.\n\nP.C. Bose died in 1959, while he was a sitting Member of Parliament.\n"}
{"id": "73515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=73515", "title": "Sandro Botticelli", "text": "Sandro Botticelli\n\nAlessandro di Mariano di Vanni Filipepi (c. 1445 – May 17, 1510), known as Sandro Botticelli (), was an Italian painter of the Early Renaissance. He belonged to the Florentine School under the patronage of Lorenzo de' Medici, a movement that Giorgio Vasari would characterize less than a hundred years later in his \"Vita\" of Botticelli as a \"golden age\". Botticelli's posthumous reputation suffered until the late 19th century; since then, his work has been seen to represent the linear grace of Early Renaissance painting.\n\nAs well as the small number of mythological subjects which are his best known works today, he painted a wide range of religious subjects and also some portraits. He and his workshop were especially known for their \"Madonna and Child\"s, many in the round tondo shape. Botticelli's best-known works are \"The Birth of Venus\" and \"Primavera\", both in the Uffizi in Florence. He lived all his life in the same neighbourhood of Florence, with probably his only significant time elsewhere the months he spent painting in Pisa in 1474 and the Sistine Chapel in Rome in 1481–82. \n\nOnly one of his paintings is dated, though others can be dated from other records with varying degrees of certainty, and the development of his style traced with confidence. He was an independent master for all the 1470s, growing in mastery and reputation, and the 1480s were his most successful decade, when all his large mythological paintings were done, and many of his best Madonnas. By the 1490s his style became more personal and to some extent mannered, and he could be seen as moving in a direction opposite to that of Leonardo da Vinci (seven years his junior) and a new generation of painters creating the High Renaissance style as Botticelli returned in some ways to the Gothic style.\n\nHe has been described as \"an outsider in the mainstream of Italian painting\", who had a limited interest in many of the developments most associated with Quattrocento painting, such as the realistic depiction of human anatomy, perspective, and landscape, and the use of direct borrowings from classical art. His training enabled him to represent all these aspects of painting, without adopting or contributing to their development.\n\nBotticelli was born in the city of Florence in a house in the street still called Via Borgo Ognissanti. He was to live within a minute or two's walk of this all his life, and to be buried in the Ognissanti (\"All Saints\") parish church. His father was Mariano di Vanni d'Amedeo Filipepi, and Sandro was the youngest of his four children to survive into adulthood, all boys. The date of his birth is not known, but his father's tax returns in following years give his age as two in 1447 and thirteen in 1458 so, allowing for arguments as to what these statements really meant, dates between 1444 and 1446 are given. \n\nHis father was a tanner until 1460, before joining his son Antonio in a new business as a beater-out of gold leaf, which would have brought them into contact with artists. Giorgio Vasari reported that Botticelli was initially trained as a goldsmith. He perhaps became an apprentice when he was about fourteen years old, which may indicate that he received a fuller education than many other Renaissance artists. \n\nThe Ognissanti neighbourhood was mostly \"a modest one, inhabited by weavers and other workmen\", but there were some rich families, notably the very rich Rucellai, bankers and wool-merchants, headed by Giovanni di Paolo Rucellai, whose Palazzo Rucellai by Leon Battista Alberti, a landmark in Italian Renaissance architecture, was being built between about 1446 and 1451, Botticelli's earliest years. By 1458 Botticelli's family had moved to the same street as this, and were renting their house from another Rucellai, and there were other dealings involving the two families.\n\nIn 1464 his father bought a house in Via Nuova nearby (modern Via della Porcellana), which Sandro returned to live in from 1470, if not before, and where he remained for the rest of his life. He both lived and had his workshop in the house, by now a rather unusual practice, despite his brother Giovanni and his family also being in residence (and later another brother, Simone). Here the notable family on the street were the Vespucci, including Amerigo Vespucci, born in 1454, after whom the Americas were named. The Vespucci were close Medici allies, and would become regular patrons of Botticelli. The name Botticelli, meaning \"little barrel\" came from his brother Giovanni's nickname of \"Botticello\", \"apparently from an unfortunate resemblance\". By 1470 a document referred to the painter as \"Sandro Mariano Botticelli\", and it became his customary surname. \nFrom around 1461 or 1462 Botticelli was apprenticed to Fra Filippo Lippi, one of the top Florentine painters of the day, and one often patronized by the Medicis. He was rather conservative in many respects, but gave Botticelli a solid training in the Florentine style and technique of the day, in panel painting, fresco, and drawing. Botticelli's paintings avoided technical short-cuts throughout his life, and when well treated they have survived in good condition for their age. Elements in style and compositions that are reminiscent of Lippi also continue to appear throughout his career. For this period Lippi was in fact based in Prato, just outside Florence, painting what is now Prato Cathedral, and it is there that Botticelli was trained. He had probably left Lippi by April 1467, when the master went to work in Spoleto. \n\nIn the past there was speculation that he had also had a period in a more progressive workshop, and both that of the Pollaiuolo brothers and Verrochio have been suggested, based on some undoubted influence these had on Botticelli's style. Current thinking is that no actual period in a different workshop is needed to account for this. \n\nLippi died in 1469 and by 1470 at the latest, but probably a year or two earlier, Botticelli had his own workshop, which by 1472 included the young Filippino Lippi, son of his master. In June of that year he was commissioned by the judges of commercial cases to paint two panels from a set of the Seven Virtues for their court; for some reason, only one, \"Fortitude\" (now in the Uffizi Gallery) was finished. Botticelli both matched his style and composition to the other panels by Piero del Pollaiuolo, and tried to outshine him \"with fanciful enrichments so as to show up Piero's poverty of ornamental invention.\" \n\nThere is often uncertainty in distinguishing between the contributions of Botticelli, the Lippis, and other pupils and imitators of Botticelli. Especially in smaller works such as Madonnas, all the leading painters were copied or imitated by their own workshops and a host of unidentified lesser artists. Influenced also by the monumentality of Masaccio's painting, it was from Lippi that Botticelli learned a more intimate and detailed manner. Even at this early date, his work was characterized by a conception of the figure as if seen in low relief, drawn with clear contours, and minimizing strong contrasts of light and shadow which would indicate fully modelled forms. Lippi's synthesis of the new control of three-dimensional forms, tender expressiveness in face and gesture, and decorative details inherited from the late Gothic style were the strongest influences on Botticelli. A different influence was the new sculptural monumentality of the Pollaiuolo brothers.\n\nA large \"sacra conversazione\" altarpiece of about 1470–72 is in the Uffizi. It is not in good condition, but shows Botticelli had mastered the posing of a group of eight figures \"with a skillful semblance of easy naturalness in a closed architectural setting\". One work that can be firmly dated is the narrow \"Saint Sebastian\" made for a pier in Santa Maria Maggiore and dedicated in January 1474; it is now in Berlin. This was painted at the same time as the Pollaiuolo brothers' much larger altarpiece of the same saint, a showpiece of anatomical poses, with the saint shown in great pain. Though very similar in pose, no doubt after Botticelli had seen the other painting, Botticelli's Sebastian seems calm and poised, following the legend that the arrows did not kill Sebastian, whose wounds were miraculously healed. The almost nude body is very carefully drawn; usually Botticelli was not greatly concerned with anatomical precision, and he painted relatively few nudes, though some are among his most famous works. The delicate winter landscape, reflecting the traditional date of the saint's martyrdom and feast-day in January, is also one of Botticelli's more impressive efforts. \n\nAt the start of 1474 Botticelli was asked by the authorities in Pisa to join the work frescoing the Camposanto, a huge and prestigious project mostly being done by Benozzo Gozzoli, who spent nearly twenty years on it. Various payments up to September are recorded, but no work survives, and it seems that whatever Botticelli started was not finished. Whatever the outcome, that Botticelli was approached from outside Florence demonstrates a growing reputation. \nThe \"Adoration of the Magi\" for Santa Maria Novella (c. 1475–76, now in the Uffizi, and the first of 8 \"Adorations\"), was singled out for praise by Vasari, and was in a much-visited church, so spreading his reputation. It can be thought of as marking the climax of Botticelli's early style. Despite being commissioned by a money-changer, or perhaps money-lender, not otherwise known as an ally of the Medici, it contains the portraits of Cosimo de Medici, his sons Piero and Giovanni (all these by now dead), and his grandsons Lorenzo and Giuliano. There are also portraits of the donor and, in the view of most, Botticelli himself, standing at the front on the right. The painting was celebrated for the variety of the angles from which the faces are painted, and of their expressions.\n\nA large fresco for the customs house of Florence, that is now lost, depicted the execution by hanging of the leaders of the Pazzi conspiracy of 1478 against the Medici. It was a Florentine custom to humiliate traitors in this way. This was Botticelli's first major fresco commission (apart from the abortive Pisa excursion), and may have led to his summons to Rome. The figure of Francesco Salviati, Archbishop of Pisa was removed in 1479, after protests from the Pope, and the rest were destroyed after the expulsion of the Medici and return of the Pazzi family in 1494. Another lost work was a tondo of the Madonna ordered by a Florentine banker in Rome to present to Cardinal Francesco Gonzaga; this perhaps spread awareness of his work to Rome. A fresco in the Palazzo Vecchio, headquarters of the Florentine state, was lost in the next century when Vasari remodelled the building. \n\nIn 1480 the Vespucci family commissioned a fresco figure of \"Saint Augustine\" for the Ognissanti, their parish church, and Botticelli's. Someone else, probably the order running the church, commissioned Domenico Ghirlandaio to do a facing \"Saint Jerome\"; both saints were shown writing in their studies, which are crowded with objects. As in other cases, such direct competition \"was always an inducement to Botticelli to put out all his powers\", and the fresco, now his earliest to survive, is regarded as his finest by Hebert Lighbown. The open book above the saint contains one of the practical jokes for which Vasari says he was known. Most of the \"text\" is scribbles, but one line reads: \"Where is Brother Martino? He went out. And where did he go? He is outside Porta al Prato\", probably dialogue overheard from the Uumiliati, the order who ran the church. Lightbown suggests that this shows Botticelli thought \"the example of Jerome and Augustine likely to be thrown away on the Umiliati as he knew them\".\n\nIn 1481, Pope Sixtus IV summoned Botticelli and other prominent Florentine and Umbrian artists to fresco the walls of the newly completed Sistine Chapel. This large project was to be the main decoration of the chapel; most of the frescos remain, but are now greatly overshadowed and disrupted by Michelangelo's work of the next century, to make room for which some of them were destroyed. The Florentine contribution is thought to be part of a peace deal between Lorenzo Medici and the papacy. After Sixtus was implicated in the Pazzi conspiracy hostilities had escalated into excommunication for Lorenzo and other Florentine officials and a small \"Pazzi War\". \n\nThe iconographic scheme was a pair of cycles, facing each other on the sides of the chapel, of the \"Life of Christ\" and the \"Life of Moses\", together suggesting the supremacy of the Papacy. Botticelli's contribution included three of the original fourteen large scenes: the \"Temptations of Christ\", \"Youth of Moses\" and \"Punishment of the Sons of Corah\" (or various other titles), as well as several of the imagined portraits of popes in the level above, and paintings of unknown subjects in the lunettes above, where Michelangelo's Sistine Chapel ceiling now is. He may have also done a fourth scene on the end wall opposite the altar, now destroyed. Each painter bought a team of assistants from his workshop, as the space to be covered was considerable; each of the main panels is some 3.5 by 5.7 metres, and the work was done in a few months.\nVasari implies that Botticelli was given overall artistic charge of the project, but modern art historians think it more likely that Pietro Perugino, the first artist to be employed, was given this role, if anyone was. The subjects and many details to be stressed in their execution were no doubt handed to the artists by the Vatican authorities. The schemes present a complex and coherent programme asserting Papal supremacy, and are more unified in this than in their artistic style, although the artists follow a consistent scale and broad compositional layout, with crowds of figures in the foreground and mainly landscape in the top half of the scene. Allowing for the painted pilasters that separate each scene, the level of the horizon matches between scenes, and Moses wears the same yellow and green clothes in his scenes. \n\nBotticelli differs from his colleagues in imposing a more insistent triptych-like composition, dividing each of his scenes into a main central group with two flanking groups at the sides, showing different incidents. In each the principal figure of Christ or Moses appears several times, seven in the case of the \"Youth of Moses\". The thirty invented portraits of the earliest popes seem to have been mainly Botticelli's responsibility, at least as far as producing the cartoons went. Of those surviving, most scholars agree that ten were designed by Botticelli, and five probably at least partly by him, although all have been damaged and restored. \n\nThe \"Punishment of the Sons of Corah\" contains what was for Botticelli an unusually close, if not exact, copy of a classical work. This is the rendering in the centre of the north side of the Arch of Constantine in Rome, which he repeated in about 1500 in \"The Story of Lucretia\". If he was apparently not spending his spare time in Rome drawing antiquities, as many artists of his day were very keen to do, he does seem to have painted there an \"Adoration of the Magi\", now in the National Gallery of Art in Washington. In 1482 he returned to Florence, and apart from his lost frescos for the Medici villa at Spedalletto a year or so later, no further trips away from home are recorded. He had perhaps been away from July 1481 to, at the latest, May 1482.\n\nThe masterpieces \"Primavera\" (c. 1482) and \"The Birth of Venus\" (c. 1485) are not a pair, but are inevitably discussed together; both are in the Uffizi. They are among the most famous paintings in the world, and icons of the Italian Renaissance. As depictions of subjects from classical mythology on a very large scale they were virtually unprecedented in Western art since classical antiquity. Together with the smaller and less celebrated \"Mars and Venus\" and \"Pallas and the Centaur\", they have been endlessly analysed by art historians, with the main themes being: the emulation of ancient painters and the context of wedding celebrations, the influence of Renaissance Neo-Platonism, and the identity of the commissioners and possible models for the figures. \n\nThough all carry differing degrees of complexity in their meanings, they also have an immediate visual appeal that accounts for their enormous popularity. All show dominant and beautiful female figures in an idyllic world of feeling, with a sexual element. Continuing scholarly attention mainly focuses on the poetry and philosophy of contemporary Renaissance humanists. The works do not illustrate particular texts; rather, each relies upon several texts for its significance. Their beauty was characterized by Vasari as exemplifying \"grace\" and by John Ruskin as possessing linear rhythm. The pictures feature Botticelli's linear style at its most effective, emphasized by the soft continual contours and pastel colors.\n\nThe \"Primavera\" and the \"Birth\" were both seen by Vasari in the mid-16th century at the Villa di Castello, owned from 1477 by Lorenzo di Pierfrancesco de' Medici, and until the publication in 1975 of a Medici inventory of 1499, it was assumed that both works were painted specifically for the villa. Recent scholarship suggests otherwise: the \"Primavera\" was painted for Lorenzo di Pierfrancesco's townhouse in Florence, and \"The Birth of Venus\" was commissioned by someone else for a different site.\n\nBotticelli painted only a small number of mythological subjects, but these are now probably his best known works. A much smaller panel than those discussed before is his \"Mars and Venus\" in the National Gallery, London. This was of a size and shape to suggest that it was a \"spalliera\", a painting made to fitted into either furniture, or more likely in this case, wood panelling. The wasps buzzing around Mars' head suggest that it may have been painted for a member of his neighbours the Vespucci family, whose name means \"little wasps\" in Italian, and who featured wasps in their coat of arms. Mars lies asleep, presumably after lovemaking, while Venus watches as infant satyrs play with his military gear, and one tries to rouse him by blowing a conch shell in his ear. The painting was no doubt given to celebrate a marriage, and decorate the bedchamber.\n\nThree of these four large mythologies feature Venus, a central figure in Renaissance Neoplatonism, which gave divine love as important a place in its philosophy as did Christianity. The fourth, \"Pallas and the Centaur\" is clearly connected with the Medici by the symbol on Pallas' dress. The two figures are roughly life-size, and a number of specific personal, political or philosophic interpretations have been proposed to expand on the basic meaning of the submission of passion to reason.\n\nBotticelli returned from Rome in 1482 with a reputation considerably enhanced by his work there. As with his secular paintings, many religious commissions are larger and no doubt more expensive than before. Altogether more datable works by Botticelli come from the 1480s than any other decade, and most of these are religious. By the mid-1480s, many leading Florentine artists had left the city, some never to return. The rising star Leonardo da Vinci, who scoffed at Botticelli's landscapes, left in 1481 for Milan, the Pollaiolo brothers in 1484 for Rome, and Andrea Verrochio in 1485 for Venice. \n\nThe remaining leaders of Florentine painting, Botticelli, Domenico Ghirlandaio and Filippino Lippi, worked on a major fresco cycle with Perugino, for Lorenzo the Magnificent's villa at Spedalletto near Volterra. Botticelli painted many Madonnas, covered in a section below, and altarpieces and frescos in Florentine churches. In 1491 he served on a committee to decide upon a façade for the Cathedral of Florence, receiving the next year a small payment for a design for a scheme, eventually abortive, to put mosaics on some interior roof vaults in the cathedral.\n\nThe first major church commission after Rome was the Bardi Altarpiece, finished and framed by February 1485, and now in Berlin. The frame was by no less a figure than Giuliano da Sangallo, who was just becoming Lorenzo il Magnifico's favourite architect. An enthroned Madonna and (rather large) Child sit on an elaborately-carved raised stone bench in a garden, with plants and flowers behind them closing off all but small patches of sky, to give a version of the \"hortus conclusus\" or closed garden, a very traditional setting for the Virgin Mary. Saints John the Baptist and an unusually elderly John the Evangelist stand in the foreground. Small and inconspicuous banderoles or ribbons carrying biblical verses elucidate the rather complex theological meaning of the work, for which Botticelli must have had a clerical advisor, but do not intrude on a simpler appreciation of the painting and its lovingly detailed rendering, which Vasari praised. It is somewhat typical of Botticelli's relaxed approach to strict perspective that the top ledge of the bench is seen from above, but the vases with lilies on it from below.\nThe donor, from the leading Bardi family, had returned to Florence from over twenty years as a banker and wool merchant in London, where he was known as \"John de Barde\", and aspects of the painting may reflect north European and even English art and popular devotional trends. There may have been other panels in the altarpiece, which are now missing.\n\nA larger and more crowded altarpiece is the San Barnaba Altarpiece of about 1487, now in the Uffizi, where elements of Botticelli's emotional late style begin to appear. Here the setting is a palatial heavenly interior in the latest style, showing Botticelli taking a new degree of interest in architecture, possibly influenced by Sangallo. The Virgin and Child are raised high on a throne, at the same level as four angels carrying the Instruments of the Passion. Six saints stand in line below the throne. Several figures have rather large heads, and the infant Jesus is again very large. While the faces of the Virgin, child and angels have the linear beauty of his tondos, the saints are given varied and intense expressions. Four small and rather simple \"predella\" panels survive; there were probably originally seven.\n\nWith the phase of painting large secular works probably over by the late 1480s, Botticelli painted several altarpieces, and this appears to have been a peak period for his workshop's production of Madonnas. Botticelli's largest altarpiece, the \"San Marco Altarpiece\" (378 x 258 cm, Uffizi), is the only one to remain with its full \"predella\", of five panels. In the air above four saints, the \"Coronation of the Virgin\" is taking place in a heavenly zone of gold and bright colours that recall his earlier works, with encircling angels dancing and throwing flowers.\n\nIn contrast, the \"Cestello Annunciation\" (1489–90, Uffizi) forms a natural grouping with other late paintings, especially two of the Lamentation of Christ that share its sombre background colouring, and the rather exaggerated expressiveness of the bending poses of the figures. It does have an unusually detailed landscape, still in dark colours, seen through the window, which seems to draw on north European models, perhaps from prints. \nOf the two \"Lamentations\", one is in an unusual vertical format, because, like his 1474 \"Saint Sebastian\", it was painted for the side of a pillar in the Church of Santa Maria Maggiore, Florence; it is now in Milan. The other, horizontal, one was painted for a chapel on the corner of Botticelli's street; it is now in Munich. In both the crowded, intertwined figures around the dead Christ take up nearly all the picture space, with only bare rock behind. The Virgin has swooned, and the other figures form a scrum to support her and Christ. The Munich painting has three less involved saints with attributes (somewhat oddly including Saint Peter, usually regarded as in Jerusalem on the day, but not present at this scene), and gives the figures (except Christ) flat halos shown in perspective, which from now on Botticelli often uses. Both probably date from 1490 to 1495.\n\nEarly records mentioned, without describing it, an altarpiece by Botticelli for the Convertite, an institution for ex-prostitutes, and various surviving unprovenanced works were proposed as candidates. It is now generally accepted that a painting in the Courtauld Gallery in London is the \"Pala delle Convertite\", dating to about 1491–93. Its subject, unusual for an altarpiece, is the Holy Trinity, with Christ on the cross, supported from behind by God the Father. Angels surround the Trinity, which is flanked by two saints, with Tobias and the Angel on a far smaller scale right in the foreground. This was probably a votive addition, perhaps requested by the original donor. The four predella scenes, showing the life of Mary Magdalen, then taken as a reformed prostitute herself, are in the Philadelphia Museum of Art. \n\nAfter about 1493 or 1495 Botticelli seems to have painted no more large religious paintings, though production of Madonnas probably continued. The smaller narrative religious scenes of the last years are covered below.\n\nPaintings of the Madonna and Child, that is, the Virgin Mary and infant Jesus, were enormously popular in 15th-century Italy in a range of sizes and formats, from large altarpieces of the \"sacra conversazione\" type to small paintings for the home. They also often hung in offices, public buildings, shops and clerical institutions. These smaller paintings were a steady source of income for painters at all levels of quality, and many were probably produced for stock, without a specific commission. \n\nBotticelli painted Madonnas from the start of his career until at least the 1490s. He was one of the first painters to use the round tondo format, with the painted area typically some 115 to 145 cm across (about four to five feet). This format was more associated with paintings for palaces than churches, though they were large enough to be hung in churches, and some were later donated to them. Several Madonnas use this format, usually with a seated Virgin shown down to the knees, and though rectangular pictures of the Madonna outnumber them, Madonnas in tondo form are especially associated with Botticelli. He used the tondo format for other subjects, such as an early \"Adoration of the Magi\" in London, and was apparently more likely to paint a tondo Madonna himself, usually leaving rectangular ones to his workshop.\n\nBotticelli's Virgins are always beautiful, in the same idealized way as his mythological figures, and often richly dressed in contemporary style. Although Savonarola's main strictures were against secular art, he also complained of the paintings in Florentine churches that \"You have made the Virgin appear dressed as a whore\", which may have had an effect on Botticelli's style. They are often accompanied by equally beautiful angels, or an infant Saint John the Baptist (the patron saint of Florence). Some feature flowers, and none the detailed landscape backgrounds that other artists were developing. Many exist in several versions of varying quality, often with the elements other than the Virgin and Child different. Many of these were produced by Botticelli or, especially, his workshop, and others apparently by unconnected artists. When interest in Botticelli revived in the 19th century, it was initially largely in his Madonnas, which then began to be forged on a considerable scale.\n\nIn the \"Magnificat Madonna\" in the Uffizi (118 cm or 46.5 inches across, c. 1483), Mary is writing down the \"Magnificat\", a speech from the Gospel of Luke () where it is spoken by Mary upon the occasion of her Visitation to her cousin Elizabeth, some months before the birth of Jesus. She holds the baby Jesus, and is surrounded by wingless angels impossible to distinguish from fashionably-dressed Florentine youths.\n\nBotticelli painted a number of portraits, although not nearly as many as have been attributed to him. There are a number of idealized portrait-like paintings of women which probably do not represent a specific person (several closely resemble the Venus in his \"Venus and Mars\"). Traditional gossip links these to the famous beauty Simonetta Vespucci, who died aged twenty-two in 1476, but this seems unlikely. These figures represent a secular link to his \"Madonnas\". \n\nWith one or two exceptions his small independent panel portraits show the sitter no further down the torso than about the bottom of the rib-cage. Women are normally in profile, full or just a little turned, whereas men are normally a \"three-quarters\" pose, but never quite seen completely frontally. Even when the head is facing more or less straight ahead, the lighting is used to create a difference between the sides of the face. Backgrounds may be plain, or show an open window, usually with nothing but sky visible through it. A few have developed landscape backgrounds. These characteristics were typical of Florentine portraits at the beginning of his career, but old-fashioned by his last years. \n\nMany portraits exist in several versions, probably most mainly by the workshop; there is often uncertainty in their attribution. Often the background changes between versions while the figure remains the same. His male portraits have also often held dubious identifications, most often of various Medicis, for longer than the real evidence supports. Lightbown attributes him only with about eight portraits of individuals, all but three from before about 1475. \n\nBotticelli often slightly exaggerates aspects of the features to increase the likeness. He also painted portraits in other works, as when he inserted a self-portrait and the Medici into his early \"Adoration of the Magi\". Several figures in the Sistine Chapel frescos appear to be portraits, but the subjects are unknown, although fanciful guesses have been made. Large allegorical frescos from a villa show members of the Tornabuoni family together with gods and personifications; probably not all of these survive but ones with portraits of a young man with the Seven Liberal Arts and a young woman with Venus and the Three Graces are now in the Louvre.\n\nBotticelli had a lifelong interest in the great Florentine poet Dante Alighieri, which produced works in several media. He is attributed with an imagined portrait. According to Vasari, he \"wrote a commentary on a portion of Dante\", which is also referred to dismissively in another story in the \"Life\", but no such text has survived. \n\nBotticelli's attempt to design the illustrations for a printed book was unprecedented for a leading painter, and though it seems to have been something of a flop, this was a role for artists that had an important future. Vasari wrote disapprovingly of the first printed Dante in 1481 with engravings by the goldsmith Baccio Baldini, engraved from drawings by Botticelli: \"being of a sophistical turn of mind, he there wrote a commentary on a portion of Dante and illustrated the Inferno which he printed, spending much time over it, and this abstention from work led to serious disorders in his living.\" Vasari, who lived when printmaking had become far more important than in Botticelli's day, never takes it seriously, perhaps because his own paintings did not sell well in reproduction. \n\nThe \"Divine Comedy\" consists of 100 cantos, and the printed text left space for one engraving for each canto. However, only 19 illustrations were engraved, and most copies of the book have only the first two or three. The first two, and sometimes three, are usually printed on the book page, while the later ones are printed on separate sheets that are pasted into place. This suggests that the production of the engravings lagged behind the printing, and the later illustrations were pasted into the stock of printed and bound books, and perhaps sold to those who had already bought the book. Unfortunately Baldini was neither very experienced nor talented as an engraver, and was unable to express the delicacy of Botticelli's style in his plates. Two religious engravings are also generally accepted to be after designs by Botticelli. \n\nBotticelli later began a luxury manuscript illustrated Dante on parchment, most of which was taken only as far as the underdrawings, and only a few pages are fully illuminated. This manuscript has 93 surviving pages (32 x 47 cm), now divided between the Vatican Library (8 sheets) and Berlin (83), and represents the bulk of Botticelli's surviving drawings. \n\nOnce again, the project was never completed, even at the drawing stage, but some of the early cantos appear to have been at least drawn but are now missing. The pages that survive have always been greatly admired, and much discussed, as the project raises many questions. The general consensus is that most of the drawings are late; the main scribe can be identified as Niccolò Mangona, who worked in Florence between 1482 and 1503, whose work presumably preceded that of Dante. Botticelli then appears to have worked on the drawings over a long period, as stylistic development can be seen, and matched to his paintings. Although other patrons have been proposed (inevitably including Medicis, in particular the younger Lorenzo, or il Magnifico), some scholars think that Botticelli made the manuscript for himself.\n\nThere are hints that Botticelli may have worked on illustrations for printed pamphlets by Savonarola, almost all destroyed after his fall.\n\nThe Medici family were effective rulers of Florence, which was nominally a republic, throughout Botticelli's lifetime up to 1494, when the main branch were expelled. Lorenzo il Magnifico became the head of the family in 1469, just around the time Botticelli started his own workshop. He was a great patron of both the visual and literary arts, and encouraged and financed the humanist and Neoplatonist circle from which much of the character of Botticelli's mythological painting seems to come. In general Lorenzo does not seem to have commissioned much from Botticelli, preferring Pollaiuolo and others, although views on this differ. A Botticello who was probably Sandro's brother Giovanni was close to Lorenzo. \n\nAlthough the patrons of many works not for churches remain unclear, Botticelli seems to have been used more by Lorenzo il Magnifico's two young cousins, his younger brother Giuliano, and other families allied to the Medici. Tommaso Soderini, a close ally of Lorenzo, obtained the commission for the figure of \"Fortitude\" of 1470 which is Botticelli's earliest securely dated painting, completing a series of the \"Seven Virtues\" left unfinished by Piero Pollaiuolo. Possibly they had been introduced by a Vespucci who had tutored Soderini's son. Antonio Pucci, another Medici ally, probably commissioned the London \"Adoration of the Magi\", also around 1470.\n\nGiuliano de' Medici was assassinated in the Pazzi conspiracy of 1478 (Lorenzo narrowly escaped, saved by his bank manager), and a portrait said to be Giuliano which survives in several versions may be posthumous, or with at least one version from not long before his death. He is also a focus for theories that figures in the mythological paintings represent specific individuals from Florentine high society, usually paired with Simonetta Vespucci, who John Ruskin persuaded himself had posed nude for Botticelli.\n\nAccording to Vasari, Botticelli became a follower of the deeply moralistic Dominican friar Girolamo Savonarola, who preached in Florence from 1490 until his execution in 1498: \n\nBotticelli was a follower of Savonarola's, and this was why he gave up painting and then fell into considerable distress as he had no other source of income. None the less, he remained an obstinate member of the sect, becoming one of the \"piagnoni\", the snivellers, as they were called then, and abandoning his work; so finally, as an old man, he found himself so poor that if Lorenzo de' Medici ... and then his friends and ... [others] had not come to his assistance, he would have almost died of hunger.\n\nThe extent of Savonarola's influence on Botticelli remains uncertain; his brother Simone was more clearly a follower. The story, sometimes seen, that he had destroyed his own paintings on secular subjects in the notorious \"Bonfire of the Vanities\" is not told by Vasari. Vasari's assertion that Botticelli produced nothing after coming under the influence of Savonarola is not accepted by modern art historians. \"The Mystical Nativity\", Botticelli's only painting to carry an actual date, if one cryptically expressed, comes from late 1500, eighteen months after Savonarola died, and the development of his style can be traced through a number of late works, as discussed below. \nIn late 1502, some four years after Savonarola's death, Isabella d'Este wanted a painting done in Florence. Her agent Francesco Malatesta wrote to inform her that her first choice, Perugino, was away, Filippino Lippi had a full schedule for six months, but Botticelli was free to start at once, and ready to oblige. She preferred to wait for Perugino's return. This again casts serious doubt on Vasari's assertion, but equally he does not seem to have been in great demand. \n\nMany datings of works have a range up to 1505, though he did live a further five years. But Botticelli apparently produced little work after 1501, or perhaps earlier, and his production had already reduced after about 1495. This may be partly because of the time he devoted to the drawings for the manuscript Dante. In 1504 he was a member of the committee appointed to decide where Michelangelo's \"David\" would be placed. \n\nBotticelli returned to subjects from antiquity in the 1490s, with a few smaller works on subjects from ancient history containing more figures and showing different scenes from each story, including moments of dramatic action. These are the \"Calumny of Apelles\" (c. 1494–95), a recreation of a lost allegory by the ancient Greek painter Apelles, which he may have intended for his personal use, and the pair of \"The story of Virginia\" and \"The Story of Lucretia\", which are probably from around 1500.\n\"The Mystical Nativity\", a relatively small and very personal painting, perhaps for his own use, appears to be dated to the end of 1500. It takes to an extreme the abandonment of consistent scale among the figures that had been a feature of Botticelli's religious paintings for some years, with the Holy Family much larger than the other figures, even those well in front of them in the picture space. This may be seen as a partial reversion to Gothic conventions. The iconography of the familiar subject of the Nativity is unique, with features including devils hiding in the rock below the scene, and must be highly personal. \n\nAnother painting, known as the \"Mystic Crucifixion\" (now Fogg Art Museum), clearly relates to the state, and fate, of Florence, shown in the background behind Christ on the Cross, beside which an angel whips a marzocco, the heraldic lion that is a symbol of the city. This can be connected more directly to the convulsions of the expulsion of the Medici, Savonarola's brief supremacy, and the French invasion. Unfortunately it is very damaged, such that it may not be by Botticelli, while it is certainly in his style.\n\nHis later work, especially as seen in the four panels with \"Scenes from the Life of Saint Zenobius\", witnessed a diminution of scale, expressively distorted figures, and a non-naturalistic use of colour reminiscent of the work of Fra Angelico nearly a century earlier. Botticelli has been compared to the Venetian painter Carlo Crivelli, some ten years older, whose later work also veers away from the imminent High Renaissance style, instead choosing to \"move into a distinctly Gothic idiom\". Other scholars have seen premonitions of Mannerism in the simplified expressionist depiction of emotions in his works of the last years. \n\nErnst Steinmann (d. 1934) detected in the later Madonna's a \"deepening of insight and expression in the rendering of Mary's physiognomy\", which he attributed to Savonarola's influence (also pushing back the dating of some of these Madonnas. More recent scholars are reluctant to assign direct influence, though there is certainly a replacement of elegance and sweetness with forceful austerity in the last period.\n\nBotticelli continued to pay his dues to the Compagnia di San Luca (a confraternity rather than the artist's guild) until at least October 1505; the tentative date ranges assigned to his late paintings run no further than this. By then he was aged sixty or more, in this period definitely into old age. Vasari, who lived in Florence from around 1527, says that Botticelli died \"ill and decrepit, at the age of seventy-eight\", after a period when he was \"unable to stand upright and moving around with the help of crutches\". He died in May 1510, but is now thought to have been something under seventy at the time. He was buried with his family outside the Ognissanti Church in a spot the church has now built over. This had been his parish church since he was baptized there, and contained his \"Saint Augustine in His Study\".\n\nVasari mentions that Botticelli produced very fine drawings, which were sought out by artists after his death. Apart from the Dante illustrations, only a small number of these survive, none of which can be connected with surviving paintings, or at least not their final compositions, although they appear to be preparatory drawings rather than independent works. Some may be connected with the work in other media that we know Botticelli did. Three vestments survive with embroidered designs by him, and he developed a new technique for decorating banners for religious and secular processions, apparently in some kind of appliqué technique.\n\nIn 1472 the records of the painter's guild record that Botticelli had only Filippino Lippi as an assistant, though another source records a twenty-eight-year old, who had trained with Neri di Bicci. By 1480 there were three, none of them subsequently of note. Other names occur in the record, but only Lippi became a well-known master. A considerable number of works, especially Madonnas, are attributed to Botticelli's workshop, or the master and his workshop, generally meaning that Botticelli did the underdrawing, while the assistants did the rest, or drawings by him were copied by the workshop. \n\nBotticelli's linear style was relatively easy to imitate, making different contributions within one work hard to identify, though the quality of the master's drawing makes works entirely by others mostly identifiable. The attribution of many works remains debated, especially in terms of distinguishing the share of work between master and workshop. Lightbown believed that \"the division between Botticelli's autograph works and the paintings from his workshop and circle is a fairly sharp one\", and that in only one major work on panel \"do we find important parts executed by assistants\"; but others might disagree.\n\nThe National Gallery have an \"Adoration of the Kings\" of about 1470, which they describe as begun by Filippino Lippi but finished by Botticelli, noting how unusual it was for a master to take over a work begun by a pupil.\n\nAccording to Vasari's perhaps unreliable account, Botticelli \"earned a great deal of money, but wasted it all through carelessness and lack of management\". He continued to live in the family house all his life, also having his studio there. On his father's death in 1482 it was inherited by his brother Giovanni, who had a large family. By the end of his life it was owned by his nephews. From the 1490s he had a modest country villa and farm at Bellosguardo (now swallowed up by the city), which was leased with his brother Simone.\n\nBotticelli never married, and apparently expressed a strong dislike of the idea of marriage. An anecdote records that his patron Tommaso Soderini, who died in 1485, suggested he marry, to which Botticelli replied that a few days before he had dreamed that he had married, woke up \"struck with grief\", and for the rest of the night walked the streets to avoid the dream resuming if he slept again. The story concludes cryptically that Soderini understood \"that he was not fit ground for planting vines\". \n\nThere has been over a century of speculation that Botticelli himself may actually have been homosexual. Many writers observed homo-eroticism in his portraits. The American art historian, Bernard Berenson, for example, detecting what he believed to be latent homosexuality. In 1938, Jacques Mesnil discovered a summary of a charge in the Florentine Archives for November 16, 1502, which read simply \"Botticelli keeps a boy\", an accusation of sodomy (homosexuality). No prosecution was brought. The painter would then have been about fifty-eight. Mesnil dismissed it as a customary slander by which partisans and adversaries of Savonarola abused each other. Opinion remains divided on whether this is evidence of bisexuality or homosexuality. Many have backed Mesnil,; the art historian, Scott Nethersole, has suggested that a quarter of men in Florentine were the subject of similar accusations, which \"seems to have been a standard way of getting at people\". but others have cautioned against hasty dismissal of the charge. Mesnil nevertheless concluded \"woman was not the only object of his love\".\n\nThe Renaissance art historian, James Saslow, has noted that: \"His [Botticelli's] homo-erotic sensibility surfaces mainly in religious works where he imbued such nude young saints as Sebastian with the same androgynous grace and implicit physicality as Donatello's David\".\n\nAfter his death, Botticelli's reputation was eclipsed longer and more thoroughly than that of any other major European artist. His paintings remained in the churches and villas for which they had been created, and his frescos in the Sistine Chapel were upstaged by those of Michelangelo. \n\nThere are a few mentions of paintings and their location in sources from the decades after his death. Vasari's \"Life\" is relatively short and, especially in the first edition of 1550, rather disapproving. According to the Ettlingers \"he is clearly ill at ease with Sandro and did not know how to fit him into his evolutionary scheme of the history of art running from Cimabue to Michelangelo\". Nonetheless, this is the main source of information about his life, even though Vasari twice mixes him up with Francesco Botticini, another Florentine painter of the day. Vasari saw Botticelli as a firm partisan of the anti-Medici faction influenced by Savonarola, while Vasari himself relied heavily on the patronage of the returned Medicis of his own day. Vasari also saw him as an artist who had abandoned his talent in his last years, which offended his high idea of the artistic vocation. He devotes a good part of his text to rather alarming anecdotes of practical jokes by Botticelli. \n\nIn 1621 a picture-buying agent of Ferdinando Gonzaga, Duke of Mantua bought him a painting said to be a Botticelli out of historical interest \"as from the hand of an artist by whom Your Highness has nothing, and who was the master of Leonardo da Vinci\". That mistake is perhaps understandable, as although Leonardo was only some six years younger than Botticelli, his style could seem to a Baroque judge to be a generation more advanced. \n\nThe \"Birth of Venus\" was displayed in the Uffizi from 1815, but is little mentioned in travellers' accounts of the gallery over the next two decades. The Berlin gallery bought the \"Bardi Altarpiece\" in 1829, but the National Gallery, London only bought a Madonna (now regarded as by his workshop) in 1855. \n\nThe English collector William Young Ottley bought Botticelli's \"The Mystical Nativity\" in Italy, bringing it to London in 1799. But when he tried to sell it in 1811, no buyer could be found. After Ottley's death, its next purchaser, William Fuller Maitland of Stansted, allowed it to be exhibited in a major art exhibition held in Manchester in 1857, the Art Treasures Exhibition, where among many other art works it was viewed by more than a million people. His only large painting with a mythological subject ever to be sold on the open market is the \"Venus and Mars\", bought at Christie's by the National Gallery for a rather modest £1,050 in 1874.\n\nThe first nineteenth-century art historian to be enthusiastic about Botticelli's Sistine frescoes was Alexis-François Rio; Anna Brownell Jameson and Charles Eastlake were alerted to Botticelli as well, and works by his hand began to appear in German collections. The Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood incorporated elements of his work into their own.\n\nWalter Pater created a literary picture of Botticelli, who was then taken up by the Aesthetic movement. The first monograph on the artist was published in 1893, the same year as Aby Warburg's seminal dissertation on the mythologies; then, between 1900 and 1920 more books were written on Botticelli than on any other painter. Herbert Horne's monograph in English from 1908 is still recognised as of exceptional quality and thoroughness, \"one of the most stupendous achievements in Renaissance studies\".\n\nBotticelli appears as a character, sometimes a main one, in numerous fictional depictions of 15th-century Florence in various media. He will be portrayed by Sebastian de Souza in the second season of the TV series \"\".\n\nThe main belt asteroid \"29361 Botticelli\" discovered on 9 February 1996, is named after him.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "72740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=72740", "title": "Slave name", "text": "Slave name\n\nA slave name is the personal name given by others to an enslaved person, or a name inherited from enslaved ancestors. The modern use of the term applies mostly to African Americans and West Indians who are descended from enslaved Africans who retain their name given to their ancestors by the enslavers.\n\nChanging from a slave name to a name embodying an African identity became common after emancipation in the 1960s by those in the African diaspora in the Americas seeking a reconnection to their African cultural roots.\n\nIn Rome slaves were given a single name by their owner. A slave who was freed might keep his or her slave name and adopt the former owner's name as a praenomen and nomen. As an example, one historian says that \"a man named Publius Larcius freed a male slave named Nicia, who was then called Publius Larcius Nicia.\"\n\nHistorian Harold Whetstone Johnston writes of instances in which a slave's former owner chose to ignore custom and simply chose a name for the freedman.\n\nA number of African-Americans and Afro-Caribbeans have changed their names out of the belief that the names they were given at birth were slave names. An individual's name change often coincides with a religious conversion (Muhammad Ali changed his name from Cassius Clay, Malcolm X from Malcolm Little, and Louis Farrakhan changed his from Louis Eugene Walcott, for example) or involvement with the black nationalist movement (e.g., Amiri Baraka and Assata Shakur).\n\nSome organizations encourage African-Americans to abandon their slave names. The Nation of Islam is perhaps the best-known of them. In his book, \"Message to the Blackman in America\", Nation of Islam leader Elijah Muhammad writes often of slave names. Some of his comments include:\n\n\nThe black nationalist US Organization also advocates for African-Americans to change their slave names.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "789820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=789820", "title": "Subcontractor", "text": "Subcontractor\n\nA subcontractor is an individual or in many cases a business that signs a contract to perform part or all of the obligations of another's contract.\n\nA subcontractor is a person who is hired by a general contractor (or prime contractor, or main contractor) to perform a specific task as part of the overall project and is normally paid for services provided to the project by the originating general contractor. While the most common concept of a subcontractor is in building works and civil engineering, the range of opportunities for subcontractor is much wider and it is possible that the greatest number now operate in the information technology and information sectors of business.\n\nThe incentive to hire subcontractors is either to reduce costs or to mitigate project risks. In this way, the general contractor receives the same or better service than the general contractor could have provided by itself, at lower overall risk. Many subcontractors do work for the same companies rather than different ones. This allows subcontractors to further specialize their skills.\n\nIn United Kingdom building industry contract law, particularly when using JCT standard form contracts, three subcontractor types are identified:\n\nUnder UK tax law, certain activities that might appear to be subcontracting are actually treated differently. This is a subtlety of corporate taxation that may easily be missed or misunderstood, and may be relevant to research and development tax relief.\nExamples of activities that involve outsourced work that do not count as subcontracting for tax purposes include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8824378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8824378", "title": "Sukanta Chaudhuri", "text": "Sukanta Chaudhuri\n\nSukanta Chaudhuri (born 1950) is an Indian literary scholar, now Professor Emeritus at Jadavpur University, Kolkata. He was educated at Presidency College, Kolkata and the University of Oxford. He taught at Presidency College from January 1973 to December 1991 and at Jadavpur University thereafter till his retirement in June 2010. At Jadavpur, he was founding Director of the School of Cultural Texts and Records, a pioneering centre of digital humanities in India. His chief fields of study are the English and European Renaissance, translation, textual studies and digital humanities. He has held visiting appointments at many places including All Souls College, Oxford; St John’s College, Cambridge; the School of Advanced Study, London; the University of Virginia; and Loyola University, Chicago. He is an Honorary Fellow of the Asiatic Society, Kolkata and a member of the Executive Committee of the International Shakespeare Association.\n\nHis first major monograph \"Infirm Glory: Shakespeare and the Renaissance Image of Man\" (Oxford, 1981) was followed by \"Renaissance Pastoral and Its English Developments\" (Oxford, 1989). More recently, he has edited \"Pastoral Poetry of the English Renaissance\" (2 vols, Manchester, 2016-17) and the Third Arden edition of Shakespeare's \"A Midsummer Night’s Dream\" (2017). He has also edited selections of Francis Bacon's Essays and of Elizabethan poetry for Oxford University Press, and edited or co-edited several collections of essays on the Renaissance. He has studied the links and parallels between the European and the Bengal Renaissances, and the possibility of a common model of a 'Renaissance'.\n\nChaudhuri has translated extensively from Rabindranath Tagore, Bankim Chandra Chattopadhyay, Sarat Chandra Chattopadhyay, Sukumar Ray, Rajshekhar Bose and other classic Bengali writers, and many modern Bengali poets. His \"Select Nonsense of Sukumar Ray\" (New Delhi: OUP, 1998) is an acclaimed recreation in English of Sukumar Ray's whimsical nonsense poems. He was General Editor of the Oxford Tagore Translations (five volumes between 2000 and 2006). He has also translated the complete limericks of Edward Lear into Bengali, and selections from the Notebooks of Leonardo da Vinci from Italian into Bengali. He is the author of \"Translation and Understanding\" (New Delhi: OUP, 1999).\n\nFor many years now, he has worked extensively on textual studies and editorial theory. His book \"The Metaphysics of Text\" combines the insights of traditional bibliography and textual criticism with recent editorial theory and theories of language.Besides his editions of Shakespeare and Early Modern texts cited above, his textual inquiries have led him to the field of digital humanities, as centred in the School of Cultural Texts and Records at Jadavpur University. His work covers digital archiving, database creation and computational analysis of texts. He was Principal Investigator of two major projects under the British Library's Endangered Archives Programme. Most importantly, he was chief co-ordinator of Bichitra, the comprehensive online variorum of the works of Rabindranath Tagore.\n\nChaudhuri is interested in urban studies. He edited the authoritative two-volume reference work \"Calcutta: The Living City\" (OUP Delhi, 1990). For many years, he wrote a fortnightly column \"View from Calcutta\" for the newspaper \"The Asian Age\". He writes and campaigns extensively on urban issues, especially as concerning his native city, Kolkata.\n\nChaudhuri's Bengali play \"Jaha Chai\" ('What We Desire') was performed in 2007 by the theatre group Nandikar. It was part of a worldwide project on \"cultural mobility\", built around the idea of Shakespeare's lost play \"Cardenio\" and co-ordinated by the scholar Stephen Greenblatt and the Off-Broadway dramatist Charles L. Mee. Chaudhuri set the story in modern Bengal, the lost play metamorphosing into a (fictional) hitherto unknown Tagore text.\n\nHe is married to Supriya Chaudhuri, who also taught at the Department of English, Jadavpur University.\n"}
{"id": "54618628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54618628", "title": "Tay Peng Hian", "text": "Tay Peng Hian\n\nTay Peng Hian FRPSL is a Singaporean philatelist who was appointed to the Roll of Distinguished Philatelists in 1996. He is a fellow of the Royal Philatelic Society London. Hian is a specialist in the philately of Burma and the Straits Settlements.\n"}
{"id": "43406828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43406828", "title": "Tommy Higginson", "text": "Tommy Higginson\n\nThomas \"Tommy\" Higginson (6 January 1937 – 22 July 2012) was a Scottish professional football left half and inside forward. He is best remembered for his 12-year spell in the Football League with Brentford, for whom he made 433 appearances and is a member of the club's Hall of Fame.\n\nHigginson began his career with spells at junior clubs Edina Hibs and Penicuik Athletic. In 1956, Kilmarnock manager Malky McDonald saw Higginson playing in a junior match and invited the youngster to a trial with the Scottish Football League club. He impressed enough to win a contract, but departed Killie in the summer of 1959 without making an appearance, having missed two years due to his National Service and a ligament injury.\n\nAlong with fellow Scot John Docherty, Higginson reunited with manager Malky McDonald at English Division Three side Brentford in June 1959, as cover for forward Jim Towers. He began his time with the club in the reserve team. An inside forward, Higginson made his debut in a league match versus Tranmere Rovers on 27 February 1960. For the following game versus Bournemouth, Higginson replaced club legend Jim Towers in the line-up and the Griffin Park support responded by booing manager Malky McDonald's decision. Despite this beginning, Higginson soon won over the Bees supporters with his performances. Moving back to a left half position, Higginson earned a reputation as a hard man after rugby tackling a Hartlepool United player during a 4–0 victory in October 1962, escaping with only a booking.\n\nHigginson was an ever-present in Brentford's 1962–63 Division Four title-winning season. In October 1964, Higginson suffered the ignominy of being the first Brentford player to be sent off since the resumption of football after the Second World War, receiving his marching orders (along with opposition player Eric Brodie) during a league match versus Shrewsbury Town. The News of the World Football Annual stated that Higginson once passed back to his own goalkeeper from a corner kick. In 1967 and with Brentford in a dire financial situation and the subject of a takeover bid by rivals Queens Park Rangers, Higginson volunteered to take part in a Brentford to Brighton walk, to raise funds for the club. While many volunteers gave up, Higginson walked the whole way. Higginson remained with Brentford until the end of the 1969–70 season and was awarded a testimonial versus Queens Park Rangers in April 1969, earning £1,853 from a 6,620 crowd. He made 433 appearances for the Bees and is fifth on the club's record appearances list. He was posthumously inducted into the Brentford Hall of Fame in December 2016.\n\nHigginson saw out his career with Southern League Premier Division side Hillingdon Borough, reaching the final of the FA Trophy with the club in 1971.\n\nHigginson played on in Sunday league football during the 1970s, appearing for Thornbury, Syon Villa and Sutton Athletic. He retired from all football in 1990, at age 53.\n\nPrior to becoming a footballer, Higginson was a champion youth boxer and athlete in Scotland, taking part in the Border Games and running professionally. While playing junior football, he also worked as a butcher. While undertaking his National Service, Higginson saw active duty with the Royal Scots Regiment in Egypt during the Suez Crisis. While playing for Brentford, Higginson settled in Isleworth. After retiring from professional football in 1970, he worked for Firestone for three years, before returning to his old job of butchering. Higginson died at the age of 75 on 22 July 2012. He suffered with Alzheimer's disease in his later years. As a mark of respect, two days later the Brentford players wore black armbands during a pre-season friendly versus FC Erzgebirge Aue. Higginson's funeral was attended by many former Brentford favourites, including Peter Gelson, Alan Hawley and Gordon Phillips.\n\nBrentford\n\n"}
{"id": "10559144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10559144", "title": "William Stainton Moses", "text": "William Stainton Moses\n\nWilliam Stainton Moses (1839–1892) was an English cleric and spiritualist medium.\n\nMoses was born in Donington near Lincoln. He was educated at Bedford School, University College School, London and Exeter College, Oxford. He was ordained as a priest of the Church of England by Bishop Samuel Wilberforce in 1870.\n\nMoses attended his first séance with Lottie Fowler in 1872. Charles Williams and Daniel Dunglas Home were the next mediums he visited. Five months after his introduction to spiritualism, he claimed to have experienced levitation. The automatic scripts of Moses began to appear in his books \"Spirit Teachings\" and \"Spirit Identity\". The scripts date from 1872 to 1883 and fill 24 notebooks. All but one have been preserved by the London Spiritualist Alliance.\n\nMoses published \"Psychography. A Treatise on One of the Objective Forms of Psychic or Spiritual Phenomena\" in 1878. In it, he coins the term \"psychography\" (from \"psycho\" and \"graphy\") for the spiritualist concept of channeling messages from the dead via automatic writing (also known as \"independent writing\", \"direct writing\" or \"spirit writing\").\n\nMoses was one of the first vice-presidents of the Society for Psychical Research (SPR). Other early members included Frederic W. H. Myers, Henry Sidgwick and Edmund Gurney. In 1886 and 1887 in a series of publications the SPR exposed the tricks of the medium William Eglinton. Because of this, some spiritualist members including Moses resigned from the SPR.\n\nMoses endorsed the spirit photography of Édouard Isidore Buguet, however, Buguet was exposed as a fraud. Moses had supported Buguet in an article for \"Human Nature\" in May 1875. After Burguet was exposed later in the same year, Moses insisted that Buguet was still a genuine medium and he had been bribed to make a false confession. The case has been cited by researchers as an example of spiritualists willing to believe and refusing to accept evidence of fraud. \n\nIn 1884, Moses was a founding member, together with Rogers, of the London Spiritualist Alliance, afterwards the College of Psychic Studies.\n\nMoses died on 5 September 1892.\n\nMoses performed in dark conditions only with a small select circle of friends, he did not allow psychical researchers to attend his séances and refused to be tested. The psychical researcher Frank Podmore wrote:\n\nIt seems reasonable to conclude that all the marvels reported at [Moses] seances were, in fact, produced by the medium's own hands: that it was he who tilted the table and produced the raps, that the scents, the seed pearls, and the Parian statuettes were brought into the room in his pockets: and that the spirit lights were, in fact, nothing more than bottles of phosphorised oil. Nor would the feats described have required any special skill on the medium's part.\n\nIt was suggested that Moses looked up obituaries, daily newspapers, biographies or \"The Annual Register\" to research the history of deceased people. Joseph McCabe described Moses as a \"deliberate impostor\" and wrote that his apports and all of his feats were the result of trickery. Science historian Sherrie Lynne Lyons wrote that the glowing or light-emitting hands in séances could easily be explained by the rubbing of oil of phosphorus on the hands. Moses was caught twice with a bottle of phosphorus.\n\nThe psychologist Théodore Flournoy wrote that before admitting a supernatural explanation for the automatic writings of Moses, \"we must first of all be sure that he himself was not capable of elaborating them subconsciously. To my mind, he was quite capable.\" Many of Moses's statements about ancient history have proven to be false.\n\nResearcher Georgess McHargue has suggested that Moses' mediumship was the result of self-suggestion and unconscious trickery.\n\nThe first documented instance of cryptomnesia occurred in 1874 with Moses.\n\nUnder the pen name \"M.A. Oxon\", Moses published the following books on spiritualism: \n\nMoses also edited the periodical \"Light\" and wrote on spiritualism for \"Human Nature\".\n\n"}
{"id": "28368709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28368709", "title": "Zulkifli Syukur", "text": "Zulkifli Syukur\n\nZulkifli Syukur is an Indonesian professional footballer who currently plays for PSM Makassar as a right back.\n\nWinner\n\n"}
